{
  "article_text": [
    "measuring the solar diameter ( and its variations ) has a long and controversial history with results highly inconsistent with each other , not only in absolute values , but also in trends with time .",
    "detailed reviews of these efforts are presented in djafer et al .",
    "( 2008 ) and thuillier et al .",
    "( 2005 , 2006 ) and will not be repeated here .",
    "more specifically , here we will only address direct measurements , as opposed to values derived from the analysis of historical data ( e.g. duration of solar eclipses , timings of transits of mercury , etc . ) . a summary compilation of radius measurements from 1660 to the present era ( pap et al .",
    "2001 ) shows differences in excess of 2 arcsec , which persist to recent simultaneous measurements .",
    "see for instance table 1 of djafer et al .",
    "( 2008 ) , which summarizes such direct measurements , showing that they exhibit differences of up to 0.8 arcsec while claiming internal accuracy of a few tens of milli - arcseconds .",
    "the main conclusion of the paper by djafer et al .",
    "was that measuring the solar diameter is a very difficult undertaking , and that the principal causes of the inconsistent results are the effects of the earth s atmosphere , differences in the definition of the limb edge , the spectral range of the measurements , and instrumental differences that can not be independently calibrated with a precision higher than the expected variations .    on the more specific issue of variability , the results are even more extreme ( thuillier et al .",
    "2005 ) , varying from 1000 mas amplitude and in phase with solar activity ( nol 2004 ) , to 200 mas and out of phase ( delmas & laclare 2002 , egidi et al .",
    "2006 ) , to no significant change ( brown & christensen - dalsgaard 1998 , wittmann 2003 , penna et al .  2002 ,",
    "kuhn et al .  2004 ) .",
    "whereas differences of the results between the different diameter determinations can arise from the various edge definition algorithms , and the range of wavelength of measurements , the extreme differences in trends can only arise from atmospheric effects , and/or from the large instrumental effects produced by the extreme environment of sun - pointing telescopes that do not have a system for internal scale calibration .",
    "this is best illustrated by nol ( 2004 ) where it is shown that concurrent measurements made with the same type of instrument ( danjon astrolabes ) located at calern , ( france ) , santiago , ( chile ) , and rio de janeiro ( brazil ) not only show differences of up to @xmath0 , but also differ in trend with time .",
    "the calern data exhibit an anticorrelation with the solar activity cycle , while the south american data show a positive correlation .",
    "if we confine our discussion to space borne ( or space - like ) measurements , the atmospheric effects are removed , or greatly reduced , and what remains are the instrumental effects .",
    "this selection leaves only 5 experiments for which diameter measurements have been attempted : the mdi on soho , the hmi on sdo , rhessi , the sodism experiment on picard , and the sds . of those , only the sds and sodism have internal calibration capability . because of the absence of such calibration , the rhessi results only presented determinations of the solar oblateness , but not of the diameter ( fivian et al .",
    "this was based on the reasonable assumption that the instrumental scale would not change significantly during the short interval in which an instrumental rotation is performed .",
    "angular diameter determinations with soho / mdi ( bush et al .",
    "2010 ) find no discernible variation , although without an internal angular calibration these measurements must rely on other means of correcting significant long - term changes in the instrument . as with rhessi , sdo",
    "/ hmi has made observations sufficient to measure the solar oblateness ( fivian et al .",
    "2012 ) , although results of these measures have yet to appear .",
    "sdo has not been operating long enough to address the issue of long - term solar diameter variation .",
    "picard / sodism ( thuillier et al .",
    "2011 , assus et al .",
    "2008 ) is still in a validation phase , and no results have been published to date . as a consequence ,",
    "the only currently available results from instruments in a space - like environment and with internal calibration , are the sds results presented here .",
    "because the sds is balloon - borne , it can only be flown during periods when the high - velocity stratospheric winds change direction ( twice per year ) at which time , and for a few days , their velocity is low ( the so called turnaround period ) . during turnaround",
    "we can have day - long flights and still remain within the range of control of the nasa / columbia scientific balloon facility ( csbf ) , the organization that operates these flights .",
    "moreover , at the location of the csbf base in fort sumner , new mexico , turnaround occurs in early may and late september . at the spring turnaround ,",
    "the sun is too high in the sky , so that for several hours around local noon the sun would be behind the balloon , and hours of observation would be lost . as a consequence , flights are not recommended at that time .",
    "hence , only fall flights are desirable .",
    "more precisely , since the sds in the current gondola can not tilt above 53@xmath1 , those flights have to take place on september 25 or later .",
    "although we have flown the sds eleven times , starting in the late 1980s , the instrumental configuration required to reach a precision of tens of milliarc sec ( to be explained in section  [ s - si ] ) was only achieved starting with flight  6 , in 1992 . as a consequence ,",
    "this paper only presents the results of the seven flights since and including flight  6 .",
    "we describe the sds instrument and its operation in sections  [ s - si ] and [ s - o ] , respectively .",
    "section  [ s - da ] details the data - analysis procedures and pipeline .",
    "section  [ s - r ] presents the diameter results and section  [ s - d ] discusses them , while section  [ s - c ] provides a concluding summary .",
    "the current version of the sds balloon borne instrument is a package that has been successfully flown several times on 12 - 29 mcf ( million cubic ft ) balloons .",
    "the basic principle of the sds instrument is the use of a mechanically and optically stable beam splitting wedge ( bsw ) as an angle reference to form a double image of the sun separated by slightly more than its angular diameter .",
    "the constancy of the angle of the bsw is achieved by utilizing molecular contact fabrication techniques .",
    "it can be shown that by measuring the small distance between images , @xmath2 , one can achieve the necessary accuracy much more easily than if one attempts to measure the full diameter directly .",
    "the level of dimensional stability required within the focal plane is relaxed as @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the distance between the centre of two solar images ; in our case @xmath5 mm and @xmath6 mm .",
    "figure  [ f - layout ] illustrates the measurement concept and the layout of the detectors in the sds focal plane .",
    "this method also allows one to monitor and correct for instrument changes ( e.g. focal length changes , etc . ) in a straightforward way .",
    "changes in any of the optical components downstream of the wedge will affect both images and can be calibrated out .",
    "the instrument consists of three basic items , the optical system , the assembly of linear - array detectors , and the electronics package mounted separately from the telescope .",
    "the accuracy of the sds derives from the system design , which uses a single optical train to transfer the split solar images to the detectors .    in the current instrument , @xmath7 = 20.5 m , and @xmath8 .",
    "further details of the instrumental properties are given in sofia et al .",
    "( 1991 ) and summarized in table  [ t - specs ] .    .",
    "sds characteristics [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]     from this , we find no direct evidence that the bsw geometry , and thus the sds calibration angle , is changing from flight to flight . on the other hand ,",
    "the underlying cause of the variation in the direct- and reflected - image limb widths throughout each flight remains not fully understood .",
    "a comprehensive structural / thermal / optical analysis might shed further light , but at this point resources for an accurate modelling of the as - built sds are not available .",
    "such an model could not be relied upon to make quantitative , `` open - loop '' corrections to the instrument scale and distortion , for instance , but it might provide a theoretical basis for the empirical adjustments that we employ in our reduction procedure .    in the above analysis , @xmath9 is sensitive to changes in the reflection / transmission properties of the coatings on the second and third bsw surfaces while @xmath10 is associated with internal reflections from potentially both bsw elements .",
    "all four surface coatings combine to define the passband , roughly 100 nm wide and centred around 600 nm .",
    "it is conceivable that with a deterioration of the surface coatings the passband could change .",
    "judging from its roughly constant signal level , the throughput of the instrument has not changed drastically over the seven flights , although this has not been measured precisely .",
    "considering the relatively wide passband of the sds , the effective depth of the sun s atmosphere being observed will not be strongly wavelength dependent .",
    "thus , it is unlikely that evolution of the instrument s passband is responsible for the observed half - diameter changes . besides",
    ", one would expect deterioration to yield a monotonic change in the passband while the observed half diameter is seen to fluctuate .    even if the bsw - based calibration of the sds is reliable",
    ", there is another possible explanation for the apparent variation in the solar diameter worth addressing .",
    "the variation might be caused by measurement error associated with solar surface activity , should a surface feature at the sun s limb fall on one or more of the sds detectors .",
    "of course , the frequency and density of such features will fluctuate throughout the solar cycle , possibly giving rise to a false diameter change signature .",
    "this explanation is disproved by the fact that the diameter variations are not in - phase with the activity cycle , as shown by the lower panel in figure  [ f - results ] . here",
    "the measured half - diameter values are plotted alongside a tracing of the noaa - tabulated sunspot counts over the same period .    additionally , the sds is stepped through rotations during each flight , such that the diameter measures are made at different solar latitudes .",
    "measurements at all latitudes are included here , thus lessening any possible dependence on low - latitude activity .",
    "( it is in the determination of oblateness , the subject of a future study , that an effect due to activity is likely to be seen , if at all . ) by averaging the sds measures over large fractions of each flight , the mean radius over a range of solar latitude is actually what is determined . for most of the sds flights",
    "the effective mean solar colatitude measured , @xmath11 , is extremely consistent .",
    "the exceptions to this are flight 10 ( loss of most data due to a recorder failure ) , flight 11 ( rejection of anomalous limb profile data ) , and flight 12 ( restricted rotation sampling due to reduced telescope control ) .",
    "the expected flight - to - flight variation in measured radius due to this effect , assuming an elliptical limb shape , is @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the actual difference in equatorial and polar radius . in flights",
    "6 through 9 the geometric factor , @xmath14 , is less than 0.1 . assuming a nominal solar oblateness of 8 mas would induce a systematic variation from flight to flight that is negligible .",
    "even in flights 10 through 12 , the factor is at most 0.4 , leading to a maximum systematic offset of 3 mas from the uneven sampling in solar latitude .",
    "this is still insignificant relative to the estimated 20 mas systematic uncertainty of each flight s radius determination .",
    "no discernible variation in measured radius as a function of sds telescope rotation angle ( or in solar latitude observed ) is seen beyond the expected @xmath1510 mas variation associated with true oblateness .",
    "thus , we conclude that neither solar activity or solar oblateness  nor , more directly , instrument observing angle  can account for the flight - to - flight diameter variation observed .    in summary",
    ", we find it reasonable to conclude that what the sds has detected are real changes ( both increases and decreases ) of the solar radius .",
    "these are too small to be confirmed by ground - based telescopes , and too few to ascertain its time behavior .",
    "our results contrast with the only alternative space - borne radius values published to date ( kuhn et al .",
    "2004 ) , which indicate no radius changes over nearly two decades .",
    "however , they were obtained with the mdi experiment on soho , which does not have on - board calibration .",
    "we note that f modes of the sun can also be used to find a measure of the solar radius .",
    "frequencies of solar f modes bear a very simple relationship to stellar structure .",
    "they are most sensitive to the total mass and radius of the sun and not to the details of solar structure .",
    "solar models constructed with the conventional value of the solar radius usually have f - mode frequencies that do not match the sun .",
    "this gave rise to the concept of the `` seismic '' radius of the sun ( schou et al .",
    "1997 , antia , 1998 ) .",
    "the seismic radius basically defines where the kinetic energy of the modes is the maximum . the seismic radius of the sun appears to be somewhat smaller than the photospheric radius .",
    "more interestingly , helioseismic data show that the sun s seismic radius varies with changes in solar activity ( antia et al . 2000 ) ; in the sense that the seismic radius decreases with increase in solar activity . by comparison , the photospheric radius variations ( i.e. , those presented here , as determined from limb position ) are much larger and not in phase with the activity cycle .",
    "this can be understood by the fact that the radius variations are not homologous ( sofia et al .",
    "2005 ; lefebvre et al .",
    "2007 ) , with different mass shells expanding by different amounts .    simultaneous measurements of the photospheric and seismic radii are of great interest since they will allow us to calibrate solar models better .",
    "differences and similarities of the temporal behavior of these radii should contain information on how and where magnetic fields linked to activity change solar structure ( sofia & li 2001 , li et al .",
    "accurate , long - term measurement of the diameter of the sun is an admittedly difficult undertaking , fraught with issues of instrument stability and calibration .",
    "the sds design overcomes these challenges by relying on a beam splitting wedge , constructed using optical contact bonding , to provide side - by - side images of the sun separated by a stable reference angle .",
    "the dual images transform the relatively large angular measure into a small displacement in the instrument s focal plane , and also provide a number of diagnostic parameters that can be used to monitor and internally calibrate the diameter measurements throughout each sds flight .",
    "the sds data - analysis procedure , presented here in detail , allows direct comparison of results over the decades - long program .",
    "the balloon - borne sds experiment has measured the angular size of the sun seven times over the period 1992 to 2011 .",
    "the half - diameter is found to change over that time by up to 200 mas , whereas the estimated uncertainties of the measures , random plus systematic , are typically 20 mas .",
    "the variation is _ not _ in phase with the solar activity .",
    "thus , the measured variation is not an artefact of observational contamination by surface activity .",
    "while the sds measures span 19 years , they are sparse , making it impossible to say with any certainty that the observed variation is cyclic . the temporal behavior of the sun s photospheric radius provides a key constraint on models of solar structure , particularly with regard to the location , geometry , and evolution of subsurface magnetic fields .",
    "because radius variations might have significant implications regarding the effects of solar variability on climate change ( sofia & li 2001 ) , it is necessary to make further efforts to confirm or refute the changes reported in this paper , to further refine its magnitude , and to establish its time behavior .",
    "this requires a long series of observations which are well calibrated and made from space , or a space - like environment .",
    "an experiment that has spanned nearly three decades is only possible with the support and collaboration of many people and institutions . beyond the co - authors of this paper ,",
    "we would first like to thank the people who assisted in its conception and design ; this includes e.  maier , k.  schatten , p.  minott , h - y .",
    "chiu , and a.  endal .",
    "the fabrication of the sds payload could not have been accomplished without d.  silbert .",
    "flight operations were helped by many people including d.  pesnell , and w.  hoegy .",
    "we are , of course , grateful for the substantial financial support provided by a series of grants from nasa and the nsf , and more recently , from the g.  unger vetlesen foundation , and the brinson foundation .",
    "cnes ( france ) and cnrs ( france ) , which support the picard / sodism mission , also provided financial support for the most recent sds flight and we thank these institutes for their contribution .",
    "understanding of the sds instrument response was greatly assisted by the cosi model provided by a.  shapiro and optical modelling by l.  ramos - izquierdo as well as modelling and other contributions by w.  van altena , r.  mendez and d.  casetti .",
    "our work benefited from previous versions of the sds analysis pipeline constructed by j.  zhang , a.  egidi , b.  caccin , and d.  djafer .",
    "also , insightful comments from an anonymous referee led to significant improvements in the manuscript .",
    "finally , we want to acknowledge the outstanding flight support provided by the personnel of the nasa / columbia scientific balloon facility over the years .",
    "antia , h. m. 1998 , a&a 330 , 336    antia , h. m. , basu , s. , pintar , j. , pohl , b. 2000 , soph 192 , 459    assus , p. , irbah , a. , bourget , p. , corbard , t. , & the picard team 2008 , astron .",
    "329 , 517    brown , t. m. & christensen - dalsgaard , j. 1998 , apj 500 , 195    bush , r. i. , emilio , m. , kuhn , j. r. 2010 , apj 716 , 1381    delmas , c. & laclare , f. 2002 , soph 209 , 391    djafer , d. , thuillier , g. , sofia , s. 2008 , apj 676 , 651    egidi , a. , caccin , b. , sofia , s. , heaps , w. , hoegy , w. , twigg , l. 2006 soph 235 , 407    fivian , m. d. , hudson , h. s. , lin , r. p. , zahid , h. j. 2008 , science 322 , 560    fivian , m. , hudson , h. s. , lin , r. p. , bush , r. i. , emilio , m. , kuhn , j. r. , scholl , i. f. 2012 , aas meeting # 220 , # 205.11    haberreiter , m. , schmutz , w. , kosovichev , a. g. 2008 , apj 675 , 53    hestroffer , d. and magnan , c. 1998 , a&a 333 , 338    kuhn , j .",
    "r. , bush , r. i. , emilio , m. , scherrer , p. h. 2004 , apj 613 , 1241    lefebvre , s. , kosovichev , a. g. , rozelot , j. p. 2007 , apj 658 , 135    li , l. h. , basu , s. , sofia , s. , robinson , f. j. , demarque , p. , guenther , d. b. 2003 , apj 591 , 1267    nol , f. 2004 , a&a 413 , 725    pap , j. , rozelot , j. p. , godier , s. , varadi , f. 2001 , a&a 372 , 1005    penna , j. l. , jilinski , e. g. , andrei , a. h. , puliaev , s. p. , reis neto , e. 2002 , a&a 384 , 650    schou , j. , kosovichev , a. g. , goode , p. r. , dziembowski , w. a. 1997 ,",
    "apj 489 , 197    shapiro , a. i. , schmutz , w. , schoell , m. , haberreiter , m. , rozanov , e. 2010 , a&a 517 , 48    smart , w. m. 1979 , `` spherical astronomy '' ( 6th ed . ; new york , cambridge university press ) , p 72    sofia , s. , maier , e. , twigg , l. w. 1991 , adv .",
    "space res .",
    "vol 11 , no . 4 , 123    sofia , s. , heaps , w. , twigg , l. w. 1994 , apj 427 , 1048    sofia , s. & li , l. h. 2001 , j. geophys .",
    "106 , 12969    sofia , s. , basu , s. , demarque , p. , li , l. , thuillier , g. 2005 , apj 632 , 147    thuillier , g. , dewitte , s. , schmutz , w. , & the picard team 2006 , adv .",
    "space res .",
    "vol 38 , no . 8 , 1792    thuillier , g. , sofia , s. , haberreiter , m. 2005 , adv .",
    "space res .",
    "vol 35 , no . 3 , 329    thuillier , g. , dewitte , s. , schmutz , w. , & the picard team 2011 , in iaga special sopron book series , vol .",
    "4 : `` the sun , the solar wind , and the heliosphere '' , proc . of the conf . held 23 - 30 august , 2009 in sopron , hungary , eds .",
    "m.  p. miralles and j.  snchez almeida , ( berlin : springer ) , p 365    wittmann , a. d. 2003 , astron .",
    "as discussed in section  [ s - daf ] , broadening of the limb edge profile by a symmetric kernel function results in a shift of the @xmath16 because of an asymmetry in the underlying , intrinsic limb profile .",
    "this shift is characterized by the measured fwhm as shown in figure  [ f - fitsim ] . additional @xmath16 shift or bias will be incurred if the broadening mechanism itself imparts an asymmetry , i.e. , if the instrument point spread function is asymmetric .    such asymmetry , beyond that expected from the intrinsic limb profile , is seen in the sds observations when the fwhm rises above its nominal 2 to 3 arcsec value .",
    "figure  [ f - skew ] illustrates this for an exposure during flight  12 .",
    "numerical derivatives of the smoothed limbs , measured on the central detector , are shown for a case where the direct and reflected images yield fwhm values of 2.1 and 4.1 arcsec , respectively .",
    "there is significant skew in the broader , reflected - image profile .",
    "the local inflection point differs from the gaussian - fit center ( @xmath17=0 in the figure ) by 2 to 3 pixels ,",
    "while the expected shift using the calibration curve of figure  [ f - fitsim ] is only 1 pixel .",
    "the instrument ( in this case , its reflected - image channel ) must be responsible for the additional asymmetry .",
    "a better fit to such a profile can be made by employing an asymmetric fitting function .",
    "alternatively , a symmetric fitting function can still be used provided the range of data points to be included in the fit is sufficiently limited . recall that the portion of the profile to be fit was somewhat arbitrarily chosen to be those data points contiguous to the maximum point and with values greater than half the maximum . as a test",
    ", we choose the second approach , adopting the quadratic defined by the maximum point in each profile and its neighboring two points . while the use of just three points per profile will make for noisy @xmath16 determinations ,",
    "it is systematic effects we wish to explore here .",
    "we apply this @xmath16-determination method to flights 07 and 12 , and plot the resulting half - diameters in figure  [ f - alx ] , ( red points ) . for comparison",
    ", we also plot the half diameters resulting from the standard ( gaussian fit ) pipeline , before ( black points ) and after ( blue points ) the final @xmath18fwhm correction of section  [ s - dan ] .",
    "an artificial offset of + /-0.3 arcec has been added to separate the three sets for clarity .",
    "assuming the sun s true angular diameter is constant throughout each flight , it appears the three - point quadratic @xmath16 method does an equally good job of flattening the flight curve as does the @xmath18fwhm - correction method .",
    "in fact , in terms of systematics , if not random noise , it is superior during the initial ascent phase of the flight .",
    "although , during this stage the fwhm value exceeds 5 arcsec and , thus , the standard pipeline would have rejected these data for the purpose of diameter determination .    for flight 12 ,",
    "the conclusion is different ; the three - point quadratic @xmath16 method does not yield a constant half diameter while the standard pipeline , with the @xmath18fwhm correction , does .",
    "note that during flight 07 the direct and reflected limb widths track one another well , while during flight 12 they do not , ( see figure  [ f - delwid ] ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the balloon - borne solar disk sextant ( sds ) experiment has measured the angular size of the sun on seven occasions spanning the years 1992 to 2011 . the solar half - diameter  observed in a 100-nm wide passband centred at 615 nm  is found to vary over that period by up to 200 mas , while the typical estimated uncertainty of each measure is 20 mas . </S>",
    "<S> the diameter variation is _ not _ in phase with the solar activity cycle ; thus , the measured diameter variation can not be explained as an observational artefact of surface activity . </S>",
    "<S> other possible instrument - related explanations for the observed variation are considered but found unlikely , leading us to conclude that the variation is real . </S>",
    "<S> the sds is described here in detail , as is the complete analysis procedure necessary to calibrate the instrument and allow comparison of diameter measures across decades . </S>"
  ]
}