{
  "article_text": [
    "cosmological gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) are the most luminous events in the universe , which are observed as short flashes of gamma - ray radiation ( prompt emission ) accompanied by transient afterglow on longer wavelengths ( see @xcite for a review and references ) .",
    "after decades of intensive studies , it has been commonly accepted that grb radiation has mainly a non - thermal nature .",
    "the principal prompt emission mechanisms include synchrotron radiation of electrons accelerated in relativistic shock waves or magnetohydrodynamic ( mhd ) instabilities , synchrotron self - compton and inverse compton scattering of thermal photons ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "however , thermal emission can also emerge in grb light curves for several reasons .",
    "it is commonly accepted that long grbs are connected with explosive deaths of massive stars , which can be surrounded by a dense stellar wind or even by shells of matter ( up to several @xmath0 ) produced by pulsational instability of the progenitor . even several per cent of the huge grb energy @xmath1  erg intercepted by this matter",
    "can be observed as thermal emission @xcite .",
    "thermal emission signatures have been found in grb spectra .",
    "@xcite calculated a photospheric component on top of the non - thermal power - law , which can describe several tens of observed grb prompt emission spectra better than a pure broken power law @xcite or a cut - off power law , i.e. the ` canonical ' spectral functions .",
    "several detections of x - ray lines @xcite and blackbody components ( see e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) were reported in x - ray afterglows suggesting that thermal effects may also contribute to the afterglow radiation .",
    "@xcite discussed how the power - law grb spectra may be produced by the blackbody radiation with changing temperature .",
    "recently , studies by several authors ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) make the grb thermal prompt emission more topical .",
    "using axisymmetric relativistic hydrodynamical simulations , they argue that , breaking through the progenitor star envelope , the relativistic jet becomes collimated and cut apart by tangential shock waves .",
    "different parts of the jet start moving with different lorentz - factors ( an order of magnitude exceeding those predicted by the spherically symmetric fireball model ) and , when colliding with each other , they can produce thermal emission .",
    "this looks similar to the widely accepted internal shock scenario @xcite , but the emerging thermal emission ensures greater efficiency than the synchrotron one .",
    "in addition , late - time afterglow light curves of grbs often demonstrate bumps with colour evolution and optical and nir spectra looking like type ib / c supernova on top of the power - law fading . these supernova - like features",
    "have been detected photometrically and spectroscopically in many grb afterglows ( see @xcite , @xcite for a review of grb - sn physical and observational connections ) , and are considered as the most compelling evidence for the presence of thermal plasma radiation in grb afterglows .",
    "this grb - sn connection is a cornerstone of the present concepts of the origin of grb central engine .    therefore , thermal emission in grb afterglows can appear as irregular , ` sporadic ' deviations from the ` canonical ' power laws of grb light curves and spectra @xmath2 .",
    "thermal emission from large circumburst structures has also been studied .",
    "for example , @xcite studied the case where a dense molecular cloud around and near the grb progenitor star was present . in their simulations",
    ", a cloud with number density @xmath3  @xmath4 and radius of a few parsec was heated up by an instant ( delta - like ) gamma - ray emission pulse via compton scattering , and the generated thermal radiation was found to last for a few years .    in our previous paper ( @xcite , hereafter paper i ) , we modelled thermal effects in grb afterglows using the multigroup radiation - hydrocode stella .",
    "the code was originally developed for detailed simulations of supernova radiation ( see @xcite ) , and is suitable for calculation of thermal emission generation and transport in exploding and expanding media . in paper",
    "i the code was modified to include gamma - ray heating and non - stationary ionization of matter .    in the present paper , the code",
    "is modified in order to more accurately handle discontinuities ( in degree of ionization , opacity and emissivity , etc . ) which emerge due to the propagation of gamma - ray radiation . the grb jet interaction with the shell",
    "is modelled using the so called ` thermal bomb ' ( in contrast to a heavy ` piston ' , or ` quasi - ejecta ' which we used in paper i ) . in this approach a certain amount of thermal energy",
    "is deposited into a certain amount of mass during a certain time interval .",
    "different boundary conditions can be imposed to thermal radiation escaping from the shell .    in section 2",
    "we describe the model .",
    "section 3 presents results of calculations . in section 4",
    "we compare the results of our calculations with features of observed afterglows and discuss other possible astrophysical applications .",
    "section 5 summarizes the results obtained .",
    "the primary goal of our calculations is to study thermal emission generated during the interaction of powerful gamma - ray flux and following blast wave from a grb with the cold dense shell surrounding the grb progenitor and to find possible observational signatures of this radiation .",
    "a massive grb progenitor star can experience a powerful pulsational instability stage before the explosion and expell several m@xmath5 of matter .",
    "this scenario , for example , was suggested by @xcite to explain an extremely bright type iin supernova sn2006gy .",
    "observational signatures of such mass - loss events around supernova progenitors were recently found by @xcite .    like in @xcite , in our calculations",
    "we used the multigroup radiation hydrocode stella .",
    "the code is one - dimensional and non - relativistic , but radiative transfer equations include aberration , time delay and doppler - shift effects to within the @xmath6 accuracy .",
    "therefore , to aviod relativistic motions , we are restricted by spherically symmetric shells with densities corresponding a total thomson optical depth of less than one and located far enough from the centre of explosion .",
    "specifically , we consider thin shells at a distance of @xmath7  cm with number densities of several @xmath8  @xmath4 .",
    "as @xcite show , such and even denser ` walls ' around the grb progenitor could arise if the central star had experienced several mass ejection episodes , and the ejecta interacted with each other .",
    "let us consider a spherical shell with mass 5 m@xmath5 , radius @xmath9  cm and thickness @xmath1010@xmath11  cm .",
    "the mean baryon number density in the shell is @xmath12  @xmath4 , which is high enough to produce considerable thermal effects and keep the dynamics non - relativistic .",
    "the relatively small shell thickness allows a good spatial resolution .",
    "the elemental abundance was assumed to be the same as in the outer shells of the pre - supernova calculated by @xcite .",
    "the shell is illuminated by gamma - ray radiation with a peak isotropic luminosity of 3@xmath1310@xmath14 erg s@xmath15 consisting of three fred ( fast rise  exponential decay ) pulses , each with the characteristic duration 1.3 s , so the total energy of gamma - ray emission was about 4.5@xmath1310@xmath14 erg .",
    "these luminosity and the gamma - ray peak duration are quite typical ( see , e.g. , statistical study in @xcite ) .",
    "the gamma - ray light curve was intentionally made ` spiky ' to see the possible quick response of the surrounding shell to such rapidly altering ` perturbations ' ( no effect was actually found ) .",
    "the spectral energy distribution of the gamma - ray emission was taken in the form of a broken power law ( the band function , @xcite ) with the characteristic energy @xmath16 kev and low- and high - energy exponents 0.9 and 2 , respectively .",
    "the half opening angle of the gamma - ray emission cone was taken to be @xmath17 . to treat the emergent thermal emission , 120 frequency groups from 50000 in ir to 30 kev in x - rays",
    "were used .      for the present calculations",
    "several modifications were implemented to the stella code . to treat the interaction of gamma - rays with matter , a time - dependent system of ionization balance equations is solved .",
    "photoionization , ionization due to compton scattering on bound electrons , collisional ionization , radiative and dielectronic recombination are taken into account .",
    "these elementary processes determine the effect of the gamma - ray emission on the state of matter , its opacity and emissivity .",
    "the opacity of the shell matter should not block the non - thermal synchrotron emission of relativistic shocks in the grb ejecta ( in order to observe the grb phenomenon itself ) .",
    "this requirement is fulfilled because the full ionization of matter by gamma - rays strongly reduces its photoelectric opacity . a large value of the ionization parameter @xmath18 for photon energies above 10  kev and @xmath19 for those above 1  kev ( @xmath20 is the bound electron number density in units @xmath8",
    "@xmath4 ) indicates that there is a lot of high energy photons per every bound electron .",
    "our numerical non - stationary ionization calculations show that the matter becomes fully ionized in the first thousandths of a second after the gamma - ray forward front .",
    "only a few hydrogen - like ions of heavy elements ( e.g. fexxvi ) with the highest recombination rates remain in non - negligible amounts of @xmath21  @xmath4 .",
    "thus , both the prompt non - thermal grb emission and the early x - ray afterglow will be visible until the recombination of matter occurs .    the radiative heating of cold matter is produced by the gamma - ray radiation via photoionization and compton scattering ( with opacity coefficients depending on the non - stationarily calculated state ) .",
    "in addition to the heating effect , the radiation drag force produced by gamma - radiation is taken into account .",
    "as the radiation front moves with the speed of light , the unheated regions are not causally connected to heated ones ; there is a sharp discontinuity in temperature , ionization , opacity and emissivity behind the gamma - ray front .",
    "no outward fluxes of heat , mass and radiation through this contact discontinuity are assumed as boundary conditions . in the modified code",
    "this is taken into account .",
    "when calculating the eddington factors of the thermal emission ( see @xcite ) , the heated and unheated parts of the shell are treated independently .",
    "due to high densities and radiation fluxes ( both thermal and non - thermal ) , the radiation pressure can dominate the gas pressure by four orders of magnitude .",
    "this makes the problem very sensitive to the local opacity , direction and strength of radiation flows . depending on whether there are highly opaque regions ( where the radiation is strongly coupled with matter ) or how transparent the inner boundary is ( we mention here only the inner boundary , since the flux conditions on the outer and intermediate ones are set strictly as ` outwards only ' and inwards only ) , the radiation either flows away exhausting shell s thermal energy , or is accumulated in hot regions and drives their expansion .",
    "the latter , for example , takes place if the inner boundary for some reason does not transmit the radiation towards the centre ( e.g. it is highly compressed by a shock and rather opaque , or scatters the radiation back , or due to relativistic aberration makes most of the emission flow outwards )",
    ". then the thermal radiation appears trapped between the ` no - flux - towards - the - centre ' inner and no flux outwards intermediate boundaries , accelerating the hot zones rapidly up to several @xmath22  km  s@xmath15 , which results in a ` quasi - supernova ' event ( see section 4 ) . as matter",
    "is needed to be compressed by several orders of magnitude to compensate the radiation pressure , a radiation implosion easily develops around the opacity or radiation flux jumps . note that the compression increases the opacity , providing a positive feedback on the implosion , until the radiative pressure growth coasts or some instabilities come into play smearing off the density peak .",
    "we place the inner boundary flux condition by means of the inner boundary eddington factors .",
    "they are calculated similarly to those at the outer boundary in the original stella code ( @xmath23 in terms of @xcite ) . an arbitrary incoming boundary flux , e.g. a diluted blackbody background or a counter - jet emission ,",
    "can also be taken into account .",
    "in addition to being heated by gamma - rays , the shell is heated due to partial thermalization of the grb jet kinetic energy .",
    "clearly , the one - dimensional non - relativistic code can not model the relativistic jet dynamics self - consistently ; therefore we model the jet impact by means of a ` thermal bomb ' . in this approach , which is widely used in simulations of supernovae , the jet braking and its kinetic energy dissipation are described in terms of the thermal energy which is deposited into selected zones during the time interval mostly appropriate for the effecive dissipation process .",
    "this general approach is rather insensitive to details of the grb fireball expansion or blast wave propagation . assuming energy equipartition between the gamma - rays and ejecta , we have taken @xmath24  erg as an estimate of the energy to be thermalized .",
    "in fact , results of calculations turned out to be sensitive to the total thermalized energy and weakly depend on deviations from the equipartition .    in order to determine where to deposit the energy in the shell",
    ", the shock lorentz factor should be known .",
    "the ` thermal bomb ' domain should have mass exceeding @xmath25 [ the characteristic swept mass scale at which the relativistic self - similar regime @xcite is established ] , but less than @xmath26 ( the characteristic scale of the non - relativistic sedov - taylor regime ) . the blast wave moving with the lorentz - factor @xmath27 impacts the shell inner boundary at the time @xmath28 after gamma - rays",
    ". the duration of the heating process can be estimated as the radial thickness of zones in which the energy is deposited divided by the speed of light .",
    "we assumed the blast wave lorentz - factor @xmath29 .",
    "this is suitable for the incoming shock with the initial fireball lorentz - factor @xmath30 which follows the blandford - mckee solution with @xmath31 in a homogeneous medium for an adiabatic shock ( or @xmath32 for a radiative shock ) well before the impact .",
    "this means that several @xmath33 and @xmath34 ( in order for the shock to be relativistic ) of circumburst matter should be swept up by that moment .",
    "this indeed could be the case if the shell itself were produced by a non - relativistic shock initiated by one non - relativistic ejecta moving through another ( like in a pair - instability supernova , @xcite ) .",
    "thus , with @xmath29 we have placed the ` thermal bomb ' within @xmath35 of shell s matter from its inner boundary .",
    "this also corresponds to the first lagrangean zone .",
    "the ` thermal bomb ' is ` ignited ' @xmath36 seconds after the radiative heating begins in the first zone and is active for 17 s ( which also coincides with the prompt emission duration ) .",
    "hence , there are two kinds of heating processes involved : the radiative heating which has the 17  s transient profile and moves outwards from zone to zone with the speed of light , and the kinetic one which has a 17-s rectangular shape delayed by 200  s and acts in the innermost zone of the shell .",
    "the shell mass exceeds @xmath26 significantly ( by a factor of 20 in our case ) .",
    "if the shell had uniform density distribution per unit solid angle , the shock would become non - relativistic well inside it , and there would be no ` canonical ' long - term ( several hours or days in observer s time - scale ) power - law synchrotron afterglow .",
    "thus , to produce such an afterglow , the shell should be inhomogeneous , consisting of ` clumps ' ( or filaments ) which intercept energy , and rarefied ` windows ' , through which the relativistic fluid could flow without deceleration . as the shell itself",
    "is assumed to be created by a non - relativistic shock in the circumstellar medium , such ` clumps ' and ` windows ' may naturally form due to instabilities .",
    "dense clumpy circumburst matter was also introduced by @xcite to explain emission lines in the x - ray afterglow of grb 011211 @xcite .",
    "note , however , that for an opaque ( or reflecting ) inner boundary , during several days thermal emission can mimic the power - law decay @xmath37 with exponential power typical for observed grb afterglows @xmath38 ( see section 4 ) .",
    "finally , some reduction procedures were added to take into account the jet beaming factor and the spherical shape of the shell : ( 1 ) the hotspot fraction is @xmath39 of the initially spherical shell ; ( 2 ) the geometric time delay of the emission is @xmath40 where @xmath41 is the radius of the outermost zone in which the thermal emission is calculated , @xmath42 and @xmath43 are local unit vectors directed from the emitting point radially and along the line of sight , respectively ; ( 3 ) the angular distribution of the outcoming thermal emission ( despite the main code is one - dimensional , an approximate angular distribution of radiation is repetitevily computed to update eddington factors ) .",
    "the maximal geometric curvature delay is @xmath44 where @xmath45 .",
    "the jet axis can be slightly misaligned with the line of sight , leading to a more complicated time averaging .",
    "thus , for example , in paper i a @xmath46 off - set between these directions was assumed , resulting in the smearing off the curvature delay over 30008000  s interval , but in the present calculations no misalignment is assumed to see thermal features more clearly .    on the illuminated spherical surface ,",
    "a distant observer will see the emitting region as a set of concentric rings , each corresponding to the delayed surface luminosity . at a particular moment",
    ", the observed isotropic luminosity equivalent will be the thermal luminosity in observer s direction averaged over the visible area with account of the time delay : @xmath47    to calculate the light curves seen by the terrestrial observer , a cosmological model with @xmath48 km s@xmath15 mpc@xmath15 , @xmath49 , @xmath50 was used .",
    "several simplifying assumptions should be mentioned .",
    "first , a single - temperature fluid model is adopted for computational reasons . however , in a high - density medium ( several @xmath8  @xmath4 ) , the full equilibration establishes in the first tens of seconds ( the corresponding @xmath51 parameter reaches @xmath52  @xmath4s , @xcite )",
    ". as the characteristic time - scales of the calculated light curves are significantly longer ( thousands of seconds , see section 3 ) , the one - temperature approximation is justified .",
    "second , we neglect multiple scatterings of gamma - ray photons .",
    "this allows us to recalculate the radiation field at each time step without considerable increasing of the computation time ( see paper i for discussion ) .",
    "therefore , the total absorbed gamma - ray energy can be somewhat underestimated . for a given gamma - ray spectrum ,",
    "the total heating power due to the second scattering is nearly four times smaller than due to the first one . since the shell is semi - transparent for thomson scattering , the account for multiple - scattered photons can not increase the heating power significantly .",
    "however , it could affect outcoming gamma- and x - ray radiation spectra .",
    "fig .  1 presents some physical characteristics of the shell matter during its heating : the gas temperature , its velocity and the thermal emission temperature @xmath53 , where @xmath54 is the total energy density of the thermal emission .",
    "the profiles are shown for the time 800  s after the gamma - rays strike the shell .",
    "2 demonstrates the light curves of the thermal emission .",
    "shown are the bolometric luminosity , x - ray ( 2 - 30 kev ) , soft x - ray ( 0.1 - 2 kev ) and _ ubvri _ optical emission .",
    "for comparison , the characteristic range of the observed _ r_-band power - law afterglow light curves ( corrected for the galactic extinction and redshift ) is also shown .",
    "spectral density profiles for several characteristic moments are presented in fig .  3 ( e.g. the initial state , peaks of emission in different ranges ; see the legend in fig .",
    "_ r_-magnitudes calculated for different redshifts ( without extinction ) are presented in fig .",
    "4 . on these plots , time",
    "is counted from the moment at which the prompt emission front reaches the shell outer boundary , i.e. from the first pulse of the observed grb .",
    ", temperature @xmath55 and the thermal emission temperature @xmath56 , calculated from its energy density , 800  s after the heating started.,width=317 ]    * gamma - ray effect*. after the sharp front of the gamma - radiation with isotropic peak luminosity @xmath57 erg s@xmath15 impinges on the cold ( 3000 k ) dense shell , the following sequence of events occurs .",
    "a nearly full ionization is reached in a few thousandths of a second since the photoionization rate dominates all other processes by several orders of magnitude .",
    "only hydrogen - like ions of the heaviest elements are still present ( 0.1 - 10 ions per @xmath58 , while the total particle number density is of order @xmath59 ) due to recombination .",
    "this is important for the heat balance of matter and its thermal emissivity .",
    "as the material gets nearly fully ionized , the heating is mainly due to compton scattering of gamma - rays off free electrons .",
    "the cooling is due to bremsstrahlung , inverse compton scattering and radiative recombination which form the x - ray continuum .    in 1",
    "s after the radiative heating begins in a given fluid element , the dynamic balance of the medium and the gamma - radiation is reached at a temperature of @xmath60  k , which varies as the gamma - ray luminosity changes , the sharp temperature spike in fig .  1 .",
    "after the main bulk of gamma - rays passes through a given fluid element , the partial recombination occurs producing mostly x - ray and soft x - ray photons . in a few minutes",
    "the temperature drops down to @xmath61  k , and stays approximately at this level until the gamma - ray front ` causal discontiuity ' crosses the shell and the thermal emission begins to escape through the outer boundary ( i.e. the temperature radial profile becomes rather flat behind the heating front ) .",
    "the momentum transferred by gamma - rays to matter pushes it outwards with velocities of about 3000  km  s@xmath15 the outward thermal emission flux is accumulated near the gamma - ray front , while the inward flux maintains thermal balance in the underlying zones , somewhat decelerating their motion ( the innermost zones may be even pushed back by this flux towards the centre of explosion ) , and then escapes through the inner boundary carrying the thermal energy out of the shell .",
    "* grb ejecta effect*. after the jet kinetic energy has been injected ( by means of the ` thermal bomb ' , see the previous section ) , the medium gains an outward momentum and heat , and a radiative shock is formed , with the temperature initially rising up to @xmath62  k ( see the temperature bump of @xmath63  k at @xmath64}\\approx100.1 $ ] in fig .  1 ,",
    "corresponding to the time around 600  s after the ` thermal bomb ' had been activated ) .",
    "the dynamics of matter is essentially controlled by the radiation flux since the radiation pressure is several orders of magnitude as high as that of the gas even at the shock front .",
    "thus , thermal radiation from the shocked matter pushes forward external zones before the shock reaches them , and the inward radiation flux ( summed with that coming from overlying radiatively heated zones ) decelerates underlying shell zones .",
    "fig .  1 illustrates how the velocity jump is smoothed out and a cooling front moves from the transparent inner boundary into the shocked shell .    as a result ,",
    "the shock is smeared out and its strength is damped , so the outer zones coast with a velocity of @xmath65  km  s@xmath15 ( in this model no external matter to the shell is assumed ) .        * geometric curvature effect*. while the local radiation field intensity changes on time - scales of ionization ( @xmath66  s ) , heating ( several seconds ) and cooling ( minutes ) , the observed light curve will also be subjected to light travel effects : the shell light crossing time and the geometric curvature delay , which in our case are @xmath67  s and @xmath68  s , respectively .",
    "the shock emission becomes visible on the shell crossing time - scale ( see optical curves in fig .",
    "2 ) , while the bolometric luminosity maximum is achieved after about the curvature delay time , when the whole hot shell area is observed . after that",
    ", a characteristic time - scale of one or another light curve variability will reflect the cooling of matter in the shell ( see e.g. a sharp break in the 2 - 30 kev curve in fig .",
    "2 indicating that the matter cools down to sub - kev temperature very quickly , during several seconds after the gamma - rays have escaped the shell and no longer supplied power to it ) .    thus ,",
    "due to rapid gamma - ray heating and radiative cooling of the shell , a plateau with a steep decay emerges in the x - ray band .",
    "thus , one should expect a more pronounced early and hard x - ray emission if the gamma - ray heating dominates . in the soft x - ray band",
    "a shallow ( in logarithmic scale ) rise and shallow but stepening decay will be observed , which can be interpreted in terms of superposition of the gamma - ray and the shock wave heating .",
    "the optical light curve is mainly shaped by the shock heating and thermal emission transport .",
    "this radiation should be more considerable if the most of the grb energy comes in the jet kinetic energy .",
    "in extremal case where most of the kinetic energy is thermalized in the shell , late - time bumps on the afterglow light curve may emerge , resembling a ` quasi - supernova ' as discussed below .    as can be seen in fig .  4 ,",
    "the calculated r - fluxes of the optical thermal emission from sources at different redshifts lie within the region occupied by the observed r - afterglows of grbs .",
    "the colour of the synchrotron optical spectrum is red , therefore the flux in the rest - frame _ r _  band of the source is higher than that in _",
    "r _  band of the terrestrial observer .",
    "as the calculated thermal emission optical spectrum is bluer than the synchrotron one ( see fig .",
    "3 ) , for a terrestrial observer the thermal emission increases on top of the ` red ' synchrotron radiation , which facilitates its detection .    the corresponding colour excess variations @xmath69 are shown in fig .  5 for different strengths and spectral slopes of the power - law background ( denoted as plb , @xmath70 ) for the source at moderate ( @xmath71 ) and high ( @xmath72 ) redshifts .",
    "the plb spectral power indices are taken to be @xmath73 with @xmath74  mag and @xmath75 with @xmath76  mag .",
    "the brightest and the dimmest afterglow correspond to the upper and lower boundaries of the observed power law afterglow range described above .    as can be seen from fig .  5 , during the first hours the afterglow appears to be ` bluer ' due to the contribution from thermal emission ( although the total @xmath77 colour is still positive ) , and",
    "its colour remains constant during the light curve bump .",
    "after the spectral maximum passes through the ( blueshifted ) _",
    "band , a noticeable reddening occurs .",
    "apparently , the colour effect can be reliably observed only in afterglows with weak plb .",
    "is the change in the @xmath77 colour relative to the plb . the bright and dim plb stand for the upper and lower boundaries of the observed @xmath78-afterglows in fig .  4 , respectively .",
    "the curves for bright afterglows are almost indisinguishable.,width=317 ]    [ cols= \" < , < ,",
    "< , < , < , < , < \" , ]",
    "* optical range*. optical afterglows of several grbs demonstrate clear deviations from the pure power - law decay ( see e.g. discussion in paper i ) .",
    "these bumps correspond to additional proper luminosities of the order of @xmath79  erg  s@xmath15 , which is close to what is expected from thermal emission of circumburst shells illuminated by prompt grb emission .    because of cosmological @xmath80-corrections the luminosity spectral density appears to be not a good estimator to compare observations and calculations due to cosmological @xmath80-corrections .",
    "instead , we use the observed _ r_-band magnitudes , which can be derived from published data ( corrected for the galactic extinction ) , and compare them with model @xmath78-magnitudes , which can be readily obtained as @xmath81 times shifted flux spectral density convolved with the _ r_-filter transmission function .    table 1 lists properties of several grbs which we use for comparison with our model .",
    "it shows that the observed bumps occur close to the time expected for thermal emission from the illuminated shell . for grb 050904",
    "no spectral index is available ( it was not observed in _ r_-filter because of its high redshift and the host galaxy lyman - break absorption falling into @xmath78-band ) .",
    "the spectral slope and extrapolated _ r_-magnitudes ( ignoring the host galaxy absorption ) are estimated using available nir colours ( @xcite , see also @xcite ) .",
    "calculated thermal emission @xmath78-band stellar magnitudes ( solid line).,width=317 ]    fig .  6 and 7 demonstrate _ r_-light curves of grbs 020124 and 050904 ( synthesized ) with the calculated thermal emission superimposed . clearly , the agreement is not perfect ( we have not attempted to tune our model to fit any specific feature ) , but the similar time of emergence and amplitude of thermal emission from the gamma - ray illuminated circumburst shell in both cases seems to be suggestive .     calculated thermal emission stellar magnitudes in the @xmath78 ( dashed line ) and @xmath82 ( solid line ) bands . ,",
    "width=317 ]    as can be seen from fig .  6 and 7",
    ", the thermal emission does not correctly reproduce the onset of the irregularity .",
    "however , as @xcite show , such a smooth transition without a considerable rebrightening could be due to contribution of the shock synchrotron radiation when the shock encounters a sharp density contrast .",
    "the transition should become visible at times of several @xmath83 ( the time when the shock strikes the dense region ) , i.e. on the time - scale of several @xmath84 multiplied by a relevant @xmath81 factor .",
    "the adopted @xmath85  s , thus , gives appropriate times ( since grb trigger ) of the irregularity onsets of @xmath86  d. later , when the thermal emission gains strength and dominates , it forms long - term bump and rapid fading ( which @xcite argue to be not produced by the synchrotron emission only ) .",
    "note also that all considered grbs have relatively low spectral index @xmath87 , i.e. they tend to be systematically ` bluer ' than the typical power - law afterglows with mean @xmath88 .",
    "this also does not contradict their interpretation in terms of thermal emission from circumburst shells .",
    "* x - rays*. the calculated spectral density of thermal emission ( see fig .",
    "2 ) suggests that most of the shell thermal energy is carried away by x - rays .",
    "the properties of the emergent x - ray emission are directly sensitive to parameters of the shell and heating conditions , while the dependence of the optical emission on the shell parameters is less straightforward to explain .",
    "the most notable feature of the thermal emission in x - rays is the appearance of a plateau or slowly rising bumps mainly due to the high - latitude photon time delay from the shell s illuminated part .",
    "@xcite present observed 0.3 - 10 kev afterglows of grb 050904 and 070110 converted into luminosity versus proper time , demonstrating a plateau exactly where the thermal bump is expected . in fig .",
    "8 we have placed both these light curves and our calculated bolometric , x - ray and soft x - ray ones .",
    "a thermal bump from the illuminated shell provides sufficient power to explain the feature observed in grb 070110 afterglow , but underestimates the amplitude of the x - ray plateau observed in grb 050904 by an order of magnitude .",
    "however , grb 050904 itself was intrinsically brighter by an order of magnitude according to different estimates ( see e.g. @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "the x - ray plateau in grb 070110 had a flux of about 2  @xmath89jy at 1  kev corresponding to a luminosity spectral density of @xmath90  erg  s@xmath15  hz@xmath15 at 3.3  kev in the source frame , which is in good agreement with thermal emission model predictions ( see fig .",
    "the calculated light curves also reproduce the abrupt end of both the plateaus occurring at the same time .    a certain discrepancy in the hardness ratio ( 1 - 10  kev to 0.2 - 1  kev ) should be noted .",
    "@xcite reported that the observed hardness ratio of grb 070110 was about one and increased up to @xmath91 during the plateau phase , while the main part of our model thermal emission comes in soft x - rays ( 0.12 kev ) .",
    "the deficit of hard photons in our model can be partially due to the one - temperature approximation .",
    "indeed , the nearly instantaneous photoionization injects a lot of electrons with energies up to several ionization energies of ions they were knocked off , i.e. up to tens of kevs ( @xmath92  k ) , much higher than the ion temperature prior to the gamma - ray flashing .",
    "compton scattering can additionally heat them up to 60  kev ( the compton temperature corresponding to the adopted gamma - ray spectrum and electron density , though this is only an approximate estimate , since the heating and cooling are non - stationary ) .",
    "thus there should be more bremsstrahlung in x - ray and hard x - ray bands before they cool down to the equilibrium with ions ( @xmath93  k ) .",
    "compton - scattered prompt emission photons should also noticeably contribute to hard x - rays and increase the hardness ratio .",
    "the prompt emission 1 - 60 kev photons scattered towards the observer can provide an x - ray luminosity of @xmath94 erg s@xmath15 ( assuming the bolometric luminosity @xmath57  erg / s ) .",
    "also , some part of the inward coming thermal photons should be upscattered into hard x - rays .",
    "the scattered emission will have a non - thermal spectrum harder than that shown in fig .  3 , and its light curve will show a rise on the curvature delay time - scale ( i.e. thousands of seconds ) followed by abrupt fading .",
    "this seems to be very similar to what is needed to produce the hard x - ray plateaus in the light curves of grb 050904 and grb 070110 .",
    "thus , the observed hard x - ray irregularity , which can have a non - thermal origin , may indicate a shell - like circumstellar feature , which in turn may produce a thermal emission detectable as another bump in softer band at later time .",
    "therefore we argue that the similarity between the observed afterglow bumps and the calculated thermal emission properties ( in magnitudes , characteristic times , ` bluer ' spectral slopes , x - ray features ) may be a strong indication of the presence of dense circumburst shells around some grbs .",
    "this should be taken into account in studies of grb afterglows .",
    "* effect of boundary conditions : the ` quasi - supernova ' effect . * when the inner boundary of the shell is rather opaque ( or reflective , if there is a back scattering at the relativistic shock ) , the radiation does not escape through it from the shell at all or diffuses slowly , while it can freely escape outwards . during the radiative heating phase ( when the intermediate causal discontinuity exists )",
    "the energy is trapped within hot parts of the shell ( between the prompt emission front and the inner boundary ) resulting in strong radiative forces .",
    "it dominates also after the energy injection ( ` thermal bomb ' ) due to the impact of the ejecta . during the first hours",
    "all motions of the hot medium are controlled by thermal radiation fluxes directed outwards .",
    "the main differences with the model considered above , in which the inner boundary was transparent , are as follows .",
    "the 230 kev luminosity and its characteristic time - scale have not changed significantly , but in soft x - rays and _ ubvri _ bands a bright flash appears produced by the shock impact , which becomes nearly ten times more powerful than the radiation produced in the case with the transparent inner boundary .",
    "this is followed by a several - day - long fading with the slope similar to the ordinary power - law afterglow . during this interval",
    ", there is no or only weak optical colour evolution , therefore the sum of thermal and non - thermal emission will behave as an ordinary afterglow ( possibly slightly bluer than the usual one ) .        the shock and the radiation pressure accelerate the shell up to @xmath95  km  s@xmath15 , so several days after the explosion , a bright supernova - like bump emerges , with colour changing from blue to red in a way similar to what is observed in a type iin supernova originating in a dense circumstellar wind @xcite .",
    "model optical bumps observed from different redshifts are shown in fig .",
    "interestingly , similar double - bumped light curves were observed by _",
    "swift_-uvot in grb 060218 ( sn2006aj ) afterglow by @xcite .",
    "a soft x - ray thermal component slowly rising for 3000 s and then fading abrubtly was also detected ( see fig .  2 in their paper ) .",
    "rejecting a criticism cast on the feasibility of the shock breakout to produce a bright enough thermal emission , @xcite suggested the presence of an additional circumstellar structure ( envelope ) in the dense wind .",
    "another evidence for a dense grb environment was discussed by @xcite , who noted that the sn2001ke assigned to the grb 011121 was of type iin rather than ib / c .",
    "therefore , the radiation - driven ` quasi - supernovae ' might be responsible for late - time bumps in optical afterglows of grbs , which are usually classified as supernova - bumps .",
    "however in the present calculations , it appears about 4 - 5 magnitudes brighter than required to explain these bumps , and more detailed treatment of the inner boundary condition as well as non - spherical symmetric radiation transport is needed .",
    "either a strong opasity contrast or reflection is required to produce high radiation flux gradients driving the ` quasi - supernova ' .",
    "for example , high radiation flux gradients can appear due to high density contrasts in regions of the explosion , implosion , shocks or cumulative jet developement , where the radiation or the ejecta propagate in a conical channel encircled by a cold dense medium , or there are clumps of matter on the way , when the jet protrudes through the progenitor star or its extended atmosphere , when the blown - away material expands into the stellar wind , or when the grb radiation or ejecta perturb a filament of the circumburst matter , etc .",
    "additionally , as mentioned above , the relativistic aberration of the emission scattered within the ejecta can effectively act like reflection . in such cases supernova - like features can be observed in the afterglow , without supernova produced by the exploding star itself .",
    "it is tempting to apply this model to the explanation of the grb - sn connection .",
    "while the grb generating scenario is frequently referred to as a collapsar or a ` failed supernova ' @xcite , a fairly ` successful ' supernova is required to produce observed late - time afterglow bumps .",
    "if both phenomena originate in the progenitor star interiors , then the same grb central engine must be able to drive both the narrow ultrarelativistic outflow with a low baryonic load , and the quasi - spherical explosion with a kinetic energy of the same order .",
    "moreover , the grb supernovae are found to be systematically intrinsically brighter than their regular mates ( see e.g. section 4 in @xcite ) .",
    "however , this difficulty might be overcome if the central engine launches the jet only , and the source of the observed supernova ` bump ' lies outside the central star . in this case , the grb supernova would be induced by the deposition of a portion of the grb kinetic and/or radiation energy into the progenitor star exteriors or its environment .    clearly , the problem of the grb jet / shell interaction and the emerging radiation is multidimensional and relativistic , and so far no self - consistent solution has been obtained .",
    "researchers working in the field either simplify ( or neglect at all ) the radiation transport , deriving the radiation properties from the hydrodynamics ( e.g. @xcite ) , or limit themselves only by a simplified hydrodynamics ( like the blandford - mckee self - similar solution , see @xcite ) .",
    "we emphasize that thermal emission from circumburst medium can significantly contribute to the radiation of grb afterglows . the produced thermal radiation is strongly coupled with properties of non - thermal emission of grbs .",
    "therefore , the development of sophisticated multifrequency multidimensional relativistic radiation hydrocodes to treat interaction of radiation with matter is strongly desirable to improve our understanding of the grb physics .",
    "in the present paper we have used the modified radiation hydrocode stella to calculate thermal radiation effects from the interaction of the prompt grb emission and grb jet with the dense shells of matter which can surround massive grb progenitors .",
    "our model calculations revealed that thermal radiation of the heated circumburst structures can be visible in the x - ray and optical grb afterglows in the form of plateaus and deviations from the pure power - law time decay .",
    "in particular , the calculated thermal radiatiton from a dense shell with the total mass of several @xmath96 located at a distance of @xmath97  cm from the grb centre , which is illuminated by a 17-s long grb with the total energy @xmath98  ergs , can reproduce both the time , shape and magnitude of real x - ray plateaus and irregularities of optical afterglows in several grbs .",
    "it is found that the coupling between the radiation and dynamics of matter in such shells can lead to an interesting phenomenon  a quasi - supernova effect ( radiation - driven explosion of the shell ) .",
    "this intriguing possibility can explain the grb - sn connection without requiring in some cases the quasi - spherical explosion of the progenitor star itself , and is worth further studying by means of more realistic multi - dimensional relativistic radiation hydrocodes .",
    "this work is supported by rfbr grant 13 - 02 - 92119 .",
    "dab thanks the support through the dynasty foundation support program for graduate students and young pre - degree scientists .",
    "the work of sib is supported partially by russian grants rfbr 10 - 02 - 00249-a , sci .",
    "school 5440.2012.2 , 3205.2012.2 , iz73z0 - 128180/1 of the swiss national science foundation ( scopes ) and the grant of the government of the russian federation ( no 11.g34.31.0047 ) .",
    "the work of kap is partially supported through rfbr grant 10 - 02 - 00599a",
    ".    99 antonelli et al . , 2010 ,",
    "apj , 545 , l39 badjin d.a . , beskin g.m . , greco g. , 2009 , astron .",
    "lett . , 35 , 7 badjin d.a . ,",
    "blinnikov s.i . ,",
    "postnov k.a . , 2010 ,",
    "lett . , 36 , 687 , ( e - print arxiv:1008.4541 ) band d. et al . , 1993 , apj , 413 , 281 barkov m.v . ,",
    "bisnovatyi - kogan g.s . , 2005 ,",
    ", 49 , 24 beloborodov a.m. , 2010 , mnras , 407 , 1033 blandford r.d .",
    ", mckee c.f",
    ". , 1976 , phys .",
    "fluids , 19 , 1130 bisnovatyi - kogan g.s .",
    ", timokhin a.n . , 1997 ,",
    ", 41 , 423 blinnikov s.i . , eastman r. , bartunov o. s. , popolitov v. a. , woosley s. e. , 1998 , apj , 496 , 454 blinnikov s.i . , kozyreva a.v .",
    ", panchenko i.e. , 1999 , astron .",
    ", 43 , 739 blinnikov s.i . ,",
    "postnov k.a . , 1998 , mnras , 293 , l29 bor m. , atteia j. l. , damerdji y. , gendre b. , klotz a. , stratta g. , 2006 , apj , 638 , l71 campana s. et al . , 2006 , nat , 442 , 1008 cano z. et al . , 2011 ,",
    "mnras , 413 , 669 daigne f. , bonjak  . , dubus g. , 2011 , a&a , 526 , 110 filippenko a.v . , 1997 , ara&a , 35 , 309 garnavich p.m. et al . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 582 , 924 gehrels , n. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , fox , d.b . , 2009 , ara&a , 47 , 567 haislip j.b .",
    "et al . , 2006 , nat . , 440 , 181 kann d.a .",
    ", masetti n. , klose s. , 2007 , aj , 133 , 1187 lazzati d , morsony b.j . , begelman m.c . , 2009 , apj , 700 , l47 mizuta a. , nagataki s. , aoi j. , 2011 , apj , 732 , 26 nagakura h. , ito h. , kuichi k. , yamada s. , 2011 , apj , 731 , 80 nakar e. , granot j. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1744 ofek e.o .",
    "et al . , 2013 ,",
    ", 494 , 660 page k.l .",
    "et al . , 2011 ,",
    "mnras , 416 , 2078 piran t. , 1999 , phys.rep . , 314 , 575 postnov k.a . , blinnikov s.i .",
    ", kosenko d.i . ,",
    "sorokina e.i . , 2004 ,",
    "b ( proc . suppl . ) , 132 , 327 price p. a. , cowie l. l. , minezaki t. , schmidt b. p. , songaila a. , yoshii y. , 2006 , apj , 645 , 851 rees m.j . , mszros p. , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 430 , l93 reeves j.n .",
    "et al . , 2002 , nat . , 416 , 512 ryde f. , peer a. , 2009 , apj , 702 , 1211 suzuki a. , shigeyama t. , 2013 , apj , 764 , l12 tagliaferri g. et al . , 2005 , a&a , 443 , l1 tolstov a.g . ,",
    "blinnikov s.i .",
    ", 2003 , astron .",
    "lett . , 29 , 353 tolstov a.g . , 2010 ,",
    ", 36 , 109 troja e. et al . , 2007 , apj , 665 , 599 vink j. , 2012 , a&arv , 20 , 1 waxman e. , mszros p. , campana s. , 2007 , apj , 667 , 351 woosley s.e . , 1993 , apj , 405 , 273 woosley s.e . , bloom j.s . , 2006 , ara&a , 44 , 507 woosley s.e . , blinnikov s.i .",
    ", heger a. , 2007 , nat . , 450 , 390 zhang b. , 2011 , comptes rendus physique , 12 , 206"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study thermal emission from circumstellar structures heated by gamma - ray burst ( grb ) radiation and ejecta and calculate its contribution to grb optical and x - ray afterglows using the modified radiation hydro - code stella . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that thermal emission originating in heated dense shells around the grb progenitor star can reproduce x - ray plateaus ( like observed in grb 050904 , 070110 ) as well as deviations from a power law fading observed in optical afterglows of some grbs ( e.g. 020124 , 030328 , 030429x , 050904 ) . </S>",
    "<S> thermal radiation pressure in the heated circumburst shell dominates the gas pressure , producing rapid expansion of matter similar to supenova - like explosions close to opacity or radiation flux density jumps in the circumburst medium . </S>",
    "<S> this phenomenon can be responsible for so - called supernova bumps in optical afterglows of several grbs . </S>",
    "<S> such a ` quasi - supernova ' suggests interpretation of the grb - sn connection which does not directly involve the explosion of the grb progenitor star .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gamma - ray burst : general  radiative transfer  </S>",
    "<S> shock waves  methods : numerical </S>"
  ]
}