{
  "article_text": [
    "detached eclipsing binaries ( debs ) are extremely powerful tools in astronomical research .",
    "they allow us to derive a complete set of physical parameters of stars , including their absolute magnitudes . having them",
    ", one can calculate the distance , or at least the distance modulus , by comparing the derived absolute magnitudes from the model with the observed ones .",
    "this however normally requires spectroscopic observations to calculate radial velocities of both components .",
    "they are used for calculating the masses and orbital parameters , crucial for obtaining the true absolute values of the stellar parameters ( like the radii ) .",
    "spectroscopic observations are more time consuming , and require much larger telescopes for targets of a given brightness . as pointed out by @xcite , one also needs accurate theoretical atmosphere models and/or calibrations to infer surface brightness on the basis of colours , line ratios or other observables .",
    "the advantage is however that the error in the distance estimation is comparable to , or even smaller than , the dispersion of the @xmath1-relation for cepheids @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , eclipsing binaries ( not only detached ) have been recently used to determine precise distances on a different steps of the cosmic distance ladder , up to galaxies of the local group .",
    "@xcite , using various methods , calculated the distance to hd  23642 in the pleiades cluster , confirming the inconsistency between the early _ hipparcos _ results and other findings .",
    "tens of binaries were analysed in the ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and smc ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "finally , spectroscopy and radial velocities of several ebs in the andromeda galaxy @xcite and m33 @xcite were obtained , indicating the distance modulus fully compatible with other findings .",
    "despite all this effort and the potential behind the method , eclipsing binaries have never been used extensively to study the structure of the milky way , especially its inner parts .",
    "ruciski has been discusing the application of w  uma binaries for this purpose @xcite .",
    "the problem partially lays in the high and differential extinction towards the galactic center , which limits our magnitude range , and the crowdness of the field .",
    "another problem is a lack of a deep catalogue of ebs , coming from a long - cadence variability survey of the milky way .",
    "the deepest survey so far is ogle @xcite , but the only published catalogue with eclipsing binaries identified @xcite comes from the ogle - ii phase where only selected fields of the galactic bulge were observed .",
    "ebs from this catalogue were analysed by @xcite , but without distance determination , and @xcite gave a list of ebs potentially useful for distance calculations , but again without the distances themselves .",
    "recently , two large infra - red galactic plane surveys started : the ukirt infrared deep sky survey ( ukidss ; * ? ? ? * ) , with its galactic plane survey ( gps ) , and the vista variables in the via lactea ( vvv ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the latter observes the bulge and disk area regularly , and the first data release is already published ( dr1 ; * ? ? ?",
    "the multi - epoch variability campaign in the @xmath2 band will provide infra - red light curves for about @xmath3 eclipsing binaries in the bulge and disk , down to magnitude @xmath4 .",
    "this extensive and deep data set will thus be perfect to study the overall structure of the galaxy , including its most inner and outer parts .",
    "the present paper is a first effort of this study , proving that our concept works using a relatively small sample .",
    "we present the selected sample of debs and their photometric data in section [ sec_targ ] .",
    "sections [ sec_meth ] and [ sec_res ] describe the method , and our initial results respectively .",
    "finally in section [ sec_fut ] we discuss the future possibilities and perspectives of this project .",
    "since the main variability campaign of the vvv survey is still not finished , we need to test our method on a well known sample of objects .",
    "we decided to use eclipsing binaries from the ogle - ii variable stars catalogue @xcite .",
    "@xcite presented models of about 10000 of them obtained with the debil code , and identified 3170 of them as `` detached '' .",
    "we selected this sample as our starting point .",
    "@xcite analysed the same catalogue by @xcite and found a similar number of targets , which he describes as `` candidates for distance estimates '' .",
    "we have done all the work independently of his catalogue .    due to some limitations of the debil code",
    "( see section [ sec_meth ] ) we decided to pre - select only the `` well '' detached systems , defined as the ones for which a single eclipse occupies less than about 10 per cent of the whole orbital period .",
    "we got 625 objects , for which we recalculated and corrected the orbital periods , using a routine based on the analysis of variance ( aov ) method @xcite .",
    "the routine also provides the formally second best period , which sometimes occurred to be the true one .",
    "we also recalculated the debil models ( with 10000 iterations , see also section [ sec_meth ] ) , especially correcting the total observed @xmath0 band magnitudes , which was originally given as the median value of all measurements , not the out - of - eclipse value .",
    "as the input to the further steps we also used the given @xmath5 band magnitude ( in the ogle system ) , which we treat as being out of the eclipse .",
    "this however must be taken with caution , since we have no varranty that the photometry has not been contaminated by an observation taken during an eclipse . by selecting only the `` well '' detached systems",
    ", we expect to lower the probability of such situation ( i.e. less than 20 per cent of the systems would be contaminated ) .",
    "the near infrared photometry comes from the merged bulge @xmath6 catalogue of point sources , prepared as a part of the dr1 of the vvv survey @xcite .",
    "the catalogue ( v1.1 ) contains over 130 million sources from the bulge area of the vvv survey ( @xmath7 ; @xmath8 ) , about 70 million of which are flagged as `` stellar '' in all bands .",
    "the photometric measurements were done by the cambridge astronomical survey unit ( casu ) .",
    "fluxes were measured in several apertures of different sizes . for each target",
    "a single magnitude value is given .",
    "the catalogue has been generated by the vista science archive ( vsa ; * ? ? ?",
    "we have looked for the entries of the previously selected 625 targets in the merged @xmath6 catalogue v1.1 .",
    "we assumed a rather large tolerance in astrometry of 3 arcsec , i.e. we took only those vvv counterparts that were not further than 3 arcsec from the ogle position in all three @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath2 bands .",
    "we found 506 matches for about 250 targets .",
    "around half of the ogle / debil targets had a single match in the @xmath6 catalogue , however in the most extreme cases up to 6 matches within the allowed area were found .",
    "because we wanted our procedure to be as automated as possible , we did not do any additional inspection or rejections at this stage , and decided to rely on the further steps of the analysis and rejection criteria applied therein .",
    "this section describes the methods and steps we used in the analysis of the 625 debs , for which the initial light curve modeling was done , and later the 506 matches between ogle and vvv .",
    "the detached eclipsing binary light curve fitter ( debil fitter ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is a fully - automated computer program which rapidly fits eb light curves to a simple eb model .",
    "since it s comparably fast and does not require any guidance from the user , the debil fitter can systematically fit a large number of deb light curves ( lcs ) .",
    "the debil fitter assumes that the binary components are well detached ( i.e. that the binary stars can be modeled as limb - darkened spheres with negligible refection ) , and that 3rd light and dust reddening effects have been corrected . as input",
    ", debil requires a light curve , a period , and limb darkening coefficients ; it then returns the best fit values and estimated uncertainties for the following eight parameters : orbital inclination ( @xmath11 ) , orbital eccentricity ( @xmath12 ) , epoch of periastron ( @xmath13 ) , argument of periastron ( @xmath14 ) , fractional stellar radii ( @xmath15 ) , and the apparent stellar magnitude in the wavelength of the given lc ( @xmath16 ) .",
    "in addition to this , debil provides the results of a suite of statistical tests , which quantify the quality of the fit .",
    "debil operates by first folding the lc by the given period , then removing outliers and smoothing the data to reduce its noise .",
    "the shape of the resulting phased lc is then measured to produce `` initial guess '' values for the above eight parameters , taking into account the shape distortion due to the smoothing .",
    "next , debil attempts to iteratively improve the model fit by running a large number of iterations , governed by the downhill simplex optimization method @xcite , in combination with simulated annealing @xcite , for improved reliability and robustness . in the final step ,",
    "the best - solution is varied by small amounts , so to estimate the uncertainty of each of the resulting eight model parameters .",
    "the debil fitter attempts to fit an essentially geometric model to the lc .",
    "more specifically , the debil parameters only describe the relative sizes and the orbital orientation of the binary . to better understand the physics of the system",
    ", one needs to also find the stellar masses , ages , and chemical composition .",
    "this has traditionally been done through multi - epoch high - resolution spectroscopic observations .",
    "unfortunately , such observations are comparably difficult to perform on large numbers targets , and can be prohibitive for very dim or hot stars . to this end",
    "we used the method for eclipsing component identification ( meci ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which fits a physical model to each deb using only readily - available photometric data .",
    "meci is a fully - automated computer program that is designed to work from the debil model as a starting point , and further builds a physical model of the deb .",
    "meci assumes that the binary s stellar components formed together and evolved along their respective isochrones , without any mass transfer . as input",
    ", meci requires a light curve , binary colors ( optional but recommended ) , a period , the orbital parameters outputted by debil , and assumed initial stellar compositions ; it then returns the best fit values and estimated uncertainties for binary components masses and coeval age .",
    "it is also possible to give specific values of observed magnitude in different bands ( with errors ) ; meci then returns the absolute magnitude , so the distance may be calculated directly from the difference between the two values .",
    "meci operates by iterating through triplets of primary - component mass , secondary - component mass , and age , and from each triplet deriving the expected stellar radii , luminosities , and colors of the binary components .",
    "it then uses these results to construct a model light curve and binary colors , and compares them to the given observations .",
    "the triplet that produces the model that best matches the observed data is assumed to be the most likely solution . finally , the triplet values are varied by small amounts , so to estimate the uncertainties of the measured masses and age .",
    "since the given isochrone library contains a finite number of cases , it is inevitable that the best - fit triplet of some debs will be at the maximal or minimal mass or age available . in such cases meci",
    "can not give a bounded uncertainty estimate , but only an upper or lower limit on the physical properties of the binary .",
    "one of the biggest problems in calculating distances with a non - geometrical method is the interstellar extinction and reddening .",
    "it is especially difficult in the direction to the galactic bulge , not only because of large amount of dust we are looking through , but also due to crowding .",
    "two stars separated by just few seconds of arc can be located several kiloparsecs from each other , which means completely different values of @xmath17 or @xmath18 .",
    "the most popular extinction maps by @xcite do not have enough resolution and they need to be corrected in the area of the bulge .",
    "@xcite was analysing the extinction in the ogle - ii fields , but he gave only average values of @xmath17 and @xmath19 for each field .",
    "more recently @xcite provided a high - resolution reddening and metallicity map for the whole bulge , but still the resolution is limited to @xmath20 pixels .",
    "finally , three - dimmensional extinction maps were published by @xcite , but they do not cover the areas where our objects are located .",
    "we decided to use the reddening - free indices , as in @xcite .",
    "they give a number of pseudo - magnitude quantities @xmath21 , which are combinations of magniutudes in 3 bands in the form of : @xmath22 where @xmath23 are the magnitudes in given bands and @xmath24 is a multiplication coefficient dependent on the extinction law assumed .",
    "the coefficient @xmath24 is given in such way , that within a given extinction law , defined as ratios of extinction values in the given bands @xmath25 , the following equation is true : @xmath26 = ( m_1+a_1 ) - c[(m_2+a_2 ) - ( m_3+a_3)].\\ ] ] moreover it can be shown that if the absolute magnitudes are used to build the reddening - free indices , those indices ",
    "@xmath27  can be used to calculate distances @xcite , i.e. : @xmath28 thus they seem to be perfectly suited for the purpose of our project .",
    ".extinction law in the form of extinctions in each band relative to the extinction in johnson s @xmath5 band",
    " @xmath17 .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      + note : structures not being a part of the galactic disk are marked with italics .",
    "the abbreviations of galactic spiral arms are as follows : far  far 3kpc arm ; nor  norma arm ; per  perseus arm ; sag  sagittarius arm ; scc  scutum - centaurus arm .",
    "[ f ]  means the far ( behind the bulge ) and [ n ] near part of the arm .",
    "_ sgr  dsph _ ? means the sagittarius dwarf galaxy ; the membership is uncertain because of actually unknown structure of this galaxy and its streams .",
    "question marks related to sag[f ] in 3 cases are due to a signifficant distance from the galactic plane ( 1.36 - 1.7 kpc ) .        calculating the distances for a sufficient number of stars and finding the overall structure of the galaxy were the main goals of this research .",
    "we ended up with only 23 from over 3000 initial deb s from the starting debil catalogue , but it is enough to mark several major features of the milky way and show the overall usefulness of our method .",
    "the distance , extinction in johnson s @xmath5 band , and the putative membership of a given system to a certain structure are given in table [ tab_dist ] .",
    "the distance and the celestial coordinates can be easily transformed to a position in galactic coordinates @xmath29 . in this representation",
    "the sun is in ( 0 , 0 , 0 ) , and following @xcite we assume that the galactic center is in ( 8.0 kpc , 0 , 0 ) .",
    "positions of our 23 systems in the galactic plane @xmath30 are presented in fig .",
    "[ fig_xy ] . to find their membership , we compared them to the reconstruction by @xcite .",
    "see also fig .",
    "[ fig_rec ] .    except for sc15_2498",
    ", all the systems are seen around the galactic latitude @xmath31 , so the further from the sun we go , the lower under the disk we look  about 800 pc at @xmath32 kpc ( six systems in far perseus and norma arms ) , and almost 3 kpc for the furthest objects .",
    "this is of course due to the selection of fields from the ogle - ii survey .",
    "this obviously has its implications on studying the structure behind the bulge , and may explain the low metallicities .",
    "tracing the arms and thickness of the disk in this area will be more accurate with targets visible closer to the galactic equator .",
    "the positions of the closest 13 binaries match very well the positions of spiral arms and the galactic bulge .",
    "it is especially interesting in the far ( behind the bulge ) part of the perseus arm ( @xmath3313 - 14 kpc ) , where we put 5 systems , and for which the arm s curvature can be found .",
    "three more systems are found behind the edge of the stellar disk found by @xcite at 13.9@xmath340.5 kpc from the center , in a distance where the reconstruction by @xcite shows a weak , far extention of the sagittarius arm .",
    "their eventual membership to this arm is however uncertain because of the large distance from the galactic plane : from 1.36 to 1.7 kpc .",
    "notice also that there are no systems found in a very strong scutum - centaurus arm behind the bulge , about 20 kpc from the sun . at the latitude of @xmath31",
    "any targets at this distance would be about 1 kpc below the galactic plane .",
    "there is a number of systems found even futher , on distances corresponding to the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy ( sgr  dsph ) and its stream .",
    "if confirmed , they would be the first eclipsing binaries found in this galaxy . among them",
    "one can find the most massive stars of our sample .",
    "six of the objects classified as possible members of sgr  dsph can be found on the lower right panel of the fig .",
    "[ fig_mr ] .",
    "two others are sc45_1450 and sc42_4161 .",
    "the latter , together with sc22_2938 , are the only two from that sub - sample that have their paramater errors small enough not to overlap on the mass - radius diagram . yet ,",
    "both have the isochrones nicely matching the data points .",
    "sc42_4161 is also relatively bright and its components are on a signifficantly different stages of evolution .",
    "its spectroscopic follow up should be possible to do .",
    "the low number of systems found in front of the bulge  just two  is not very surprising . due to the magnitude limitations and",
    "reduced volume sample , only a small fraction of all the systems contain late type stars . in our case",
    "it s only 5 of all 23 .",
    "the two closest systems  sc18_5161 and sc41_2400  contain f and g stars and are signifficantly brighter than the other three : sc11_1274 , sc12_1664 and sc18_4766 ( @xmath35 mag ) , located in the bulge and behind it .",
    "the combination of vvv and ogle data thus appears to be suited much better for the poor - studied far areas of the galaxy than for the closer ones .      .",
    "the age is given in gyr and the metal abundace @xmath36 is translated into @xmath37 = \\log{(z/0.019)}$ ] . the galactic center and the approximate edge of the stellar disk",
    "are also shown .",
    "colour figure is available in the on - line version of the manuscript . ]    among the various output parameters of the codes , one can also find the age and metal content of the system . as was explained preciously , the age is calculated directly by meci within a set of isochrones of a given @xmath36 , while the value of @xmath36 was found by looking for a lowest score among various meci solutions .",
    "such an approach , at least in principle , allows us to trace the age and metallicity distribution in the milky way .",
    "unfortunately , the current sample of 23 is too small to derive any conclusions , especially considering the metal - depletion tendency mentionned in sect .",
    "[ sec_res_par ] .",
    "in figure [ fig_xy_age ] we present the same spatial distribution of our systems as in fig .",
    "[ fig_xy ] but with age and metallicity color - coded .",
    "the age @xmath38 is given in gyr and the metal abundace @xmath36 is translated into @xmath37 = \\log{(z/0.019)}$ ] .",
    "the data does not show any significant trends .",
    "the oldest systems are seen in arms as well as in the bulge .",
    "they are not seen outside the galaxy , but this may be explained by the observational limitations mentionned before .",
    "the ages of the most massive stars are found to be of several milions of years .",
    "this means that there may still exist gas and dust related to the star formation regions . in case of the sgr",
    "dsph , scenarios of recent star formations are possible , and the traces of interstellar gas have been found ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , but for the galactic systems , it is surprising to see the recent star formation so far from the galactic disk .",
    "the metallicities are distributed more - less uniformly , regardless the location , also within the same spiral arm .",
    "it is noticeable , that the sgr  dsph member candidates show quite a large spread of metallicities  from @xmath37 \\simeq -2.3 $ ] to @xmath39 , but as it was mentionned , the values of @xmath36 in our case are not well constrained .",
    "there are various factors which negatively affect our analysis , either increasing the errors or causing that a given solution is rejected .",
    "first one is the possibility of having a photometric measurement in the @xmath40 or @xmath2 band done during an eclipse . due to the pre - selection of  well - detached ",
    "systems only , the probablility of such a situation is smaller than 20 per cent , but we deal with measurements in four filters . if even only one is affected , the resulting pseudo - colours and reddenig - free indices will be incorrect , so will be the formally best solution .",
    "this may make many solutions to be rejected in any stage of the selection process .    another factor , which may have the same consequences , is the inacuracy of period determination .",
    "it is a well known issue that in cases of eclipses of similar depth the period - finding algorithm finds one which is two times shorter than the true one .",
    "on the other hand , for systems having one of the two eclipses very shallow , the period found is twice as long as the true one . in our sample",
    "we found by eye examples of both situations and corrected them , but obviously it is not the purpose when one is creating a pipeline , which should be able to work on tens of thousands of light curves .",
    "moreover , the periods found may be incorrect at the fourth or fifth decimal number . in such cases",
    "the model obtained is less accurate than for a true period .",
    "we also found several such cases , but we suppose that many have been omitted and analized with inaccurate period .",
    "we however expect that this had not as big influence on the final results as the previous or the next factor .",
    "the bulge is obviously a very crowdy area , so one can expect that the light curves will be at some level contaminated by a light of a background star . in case of eclipsing binaries the  third light  changes the observed colours and makes the eclipses shallower . looking at our light curves in fig .",
    "[ fig_lc_all ] , one can find cases of eclipses at the level of only 0.1 - 0.2 mag . while many  contaminated  solutions where probably rejected due to the high score value or large error in distance , some of them might have been recognised as acceptable .",
    "unfortunately , the fitting for the third light is very difficult in case of single - band light curves , and was not implemented in debil , nor in meci .",
    "another possible source of uncertainties is the usage of one extinction law for all the systems .",
    "it is already a known fact that towards the bulge the reddening law is non - standard and non - uniform ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "despite the reddening - free coefficients solve the problem of extinction and reddening in a very elegant way , they still depend directly on the extinction law assumed . considering that",
    ", the usage of one set of coefficients to the whole analysis is an obvious simplification , and has an influence on the main goal of this study  distance determination .",
    "unfortunatelly , we ca nt rely on the recent published extinction maps @xcite , because within one line of sight we may deal with stars located in front of , inside and behind the bulge in the same time , and the reddening and extinction should be different for each of them . to be treated correctly , the extinction should be calculated for each target separatelly , which is not implemented in the procedure .    as we mentionned before , the _ padova _ evolutionary tracks we used start at the zams .",
    "this means that we will have no solutions for pre - main - sequence ( pms ) systems , or systems containing one pms component and the other evolving on the main sequence already . for such objects meci",
    "gives only upper or lower limits of the physical parameters , and such solutions are being rejected .",
    "it is also possible that a local score minimum have been found in the accepted range of parameters , while the global one would be far outside , and the value of score at the edge of the parameter space was still higher than in the local minimum .",
    "such a solution would still be accepted .",
    "this could at least partially explain the observed tendency to find young and metal - poor solutions , i.e. young systems far from the galactic disk .",
    "another explanation of this may be an effect of the warped and/or flared disk of the milky way , as it was used to explain the observed overdensities of stars in various regions of the galaxy .",
    "for further reading on this topic we refer to @xcite , where a short summary and numerous references are presented in section 1 .",
    "we also find possible a scenario that some of the presumably young binaries were rejected from their parent clusters in a process of dynamical interactions , and should have large velocities @xcite .",
    "this can be easily verified with spectroscopic observations .",
    "finally , in our analysis we also used only one limb darkening ( ld ) table , prepared for the solar chemical composition @xcite .",
    "in general , the usage of improper ld coefficients affects such parameters like fractional radii or inclination .",
    "however , the precision and , what is probably more important , the sampling of the available light curves is usually not enough to be fragile for subtle changes in the ld coefficients . in most cases we have less than 30 points per eclipse and for magnitudes @xmath41 the spread reaches 0.1 mag .",
    "thus we believe that the analysis of most of the systems was not affeected by this issue , however we ca nt exclude that in case of the brightest systems .",
    "the final number of accepted models ( 23 ) is only a small fraction of the initial number of systems ( 3170 ) .",
    "it is not only due to the fact that many solutions were rejected . in the future",
    "many improvements can be done , so that we will have hundreds or thousands of systems located uniformly in the field of the bulge and disk , and the structure of the galaxy will be traced more effectively . at this stage",
    "we mainly suffer from the inhomogeneity of the target distribution in the sky .",
    "we rely on the ogle - ii fields , concentrated around certain galactic latitudes . at larger distances",
    "we look below the disk , which makes the study of the structure of the arms difficult .",
    "ogle - iii covers a much larger area in the direction to the bulge , but the catalogue of eclipsing binaries has not been published yet .",
    "this will be solved once the variability campaign of the vvv project is finished .",
    "vvv maps uniformly the whole galactic bulge ( @xmath42 , @xmath43 ) and the disk ( @xmath44 , @xmath45 ) .",
    "the variability campaign assumes 80 epochs in @xmath2 for the whole area , down to magnitude 18 , and @xmath46 eclipsing binaries are expected to be found .",
    "the photometric information also includes measurements in two more filters than we use now  @xmath47 .",
    "the matching between the ogle - ii and vvv catalogues was relatively poor .",
    "notice , that the vvv counterpart was found for less than @xmath48 of the debs , and for about half of them the matching was ambiguous .",
    "vvv itself should thus provide data sufficient to effectively trace the structure of the spiral arms , especially behind the bulge .",
    "on the other hand , combination of light curves in @xmath2 from the vvv and in @xmath0 from the ogle - iii ( once the catalog is published ) , and other photometric informations , will allow for very precise study of the overlaping regions . the structures in front , inside and behind the bulge ( including the sgr dsph ) should then be well analysed .",
    "our work should benefit not only from increasing the number of targets and photometric data , but also some changes in the procedures applied .",
    "firstly , we will extend the range of ages and chemical compositions of the isochrones we use .",
    "this will allow us to say something not only about the distribution of stars , but also about ages and abundance gradients across the galaxy .",
    "changes also can be made to the fitting procedures . at the current stage debil",
    "assumes spherical stars . adding the possibility of working on tidaly - distorted objects will surely be very profitable .",
    "only 20 per cent of the whole sample of debs was classified as ",
    "well detached  , and with @xmath4980 points per light curve in the vvv variability campaign we can rather expect to find short - period debs with wide eclipses and prominent elipsoidal variations .",
    "finally , since our approach depends on the law we assume , we expect that the results would change with different extinction and reddening laws , based on different values of @xmath50 .",
    "it is possible that the solutions we ve found are simply the ones following the law we assumed .",
    "the desirable solution would be to fit for extinction and reddening individually for each target , or implement one ( probably complicated ) extinction law , suitable for any location in the galaxy .",
    "we presented models and parameters of 23 detached eclipsing binaries ( debs ) with ogle light curves and vvv photometric measurements . using the concept of reddening - free indices @xcite we calculated distances to the systems and",
    "have been able to match their location with major structures of the milky way . with the strict criteria applied we believe to have only the most reliable results .",
    "we conclude that our approach is suitable for tracing the structure of the galaxy with debs identified in the vvv , ogle and also ukids / gps surveys .",
    "the magnitude range of the vvv data seem to be perfect for tracing the structure of spiral arms behind the bulge , and possibly identifying the first debs in the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy and the associated sagittarius stream . in principle , also the age , metallicity and extinction distributions can be found , but this requires many more objects than our initial sample contains and an uniform coverage of the bulge area .",
    "this may be achieved once the variability campaign of the vvv survey is finished .",
    "we would like to thank the anonymous rereree for valuable comments , which helped us to improve this work .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge use of data from the eso public survey programme i d 179.b-2002 taken with the vista telescope , and data products from the cambridge astronomical survey unit ( casu ) .",
    "we acknowledge the support from the basal center for astrophysics and associated technologies cata pfb-06 , and by the ministry for the economy , development , and tourism s programa iniciativa cientfica milenio through grant p07 - 021-f , awarded to the milky way millennium nucleus . k.g.h . acknowledges support provided by the proyecto fondecyt postdoctoral no .",
    "we also acknowledge the support provided by the polish national science center through grants 2011/03/n / st9/01819 , 5813/b / h03/2011/40 and 2011/03/n / st9/03192 .",
    "99 bonanos a. z. et al . , 2006 , apj , 652 , 313 cardelli j. a. , clayton g. c. , mathis j. s. , 1989 , apj , 345 , 245 catelan m. et al . , 2011 , in mcwilliam a. , ed .",
    ", rr lyrae stars , metal - poor stars , and the galaxy , carnegie obs .",
    "ser . , 5 , 145 claret a. , 1998 , a&a , 335 , 647 claret a. , 2000 , a&a , 363 , 1081 chen b. q. , schultheis m. , jiang b. w. , gonzalez , o. a. , robin a. c. , rejkuba m. , minniti d. , 2013 , a&a , 550 , a42 churchwell e. et al . , 2009 ,",
    "pasp , 121 , 213 cross n. j. g. et al . , 2012 , a&a , 548",
    ", 119 devor j. , 2004 , american astronomical society meeting abstracts , 205 devor j. , 2005 , apj , 628 , 411 devor j. , charbonneau d. , 2006 , ap&ss , 304 , 351 devor j. , charbonneau d. , 2006 , apj , 653 , 648 devor j. , charbonneau d. , odonovan f. t. , mandushev g. , torres g. , 2008 , aj , 135 , 850 fujii m. s. , portegies zwart s. , 2012 , science , 334 , 1380 girardi l. , bressan a. , bertelli g. , chiosi c. , 2000 , a&as , 141 , 371 gonzalez o. a. , rejkuba m. , zoccali m. , valenti e. , minniti d. , 2011 , a&a , 534 , a3 gonzalez o. a. , rejkuba m. , zoccali m. , valenti e. , minniti d. , schultheis m. , tobar r. , chen b. , 2012 , a&a , 543 , a13 groenewegen m. a. t. , 2005 , a&a , 439 , 559 hilditch r. w. , howarth i. d. , harries t. j. , 2005 , mnras , 357 , 304 kirkpatrick s. , gelatt c. d. , vecchi m. p. , 1983 , science , 220 , 671 kurucz r. l. , 1992 , in barbuy b. , renzini a. , eds , proc .",
    "149 , the stellar populations of galaxies .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 225",
    "lawrence a. et al . , 2007 , mnras , 379 , 1599 lpez - corredoira m. , moitinh a. , zaggia s , momany y. , carraro g. , hammersley p. l. , cabrera - lavers a , vzquez r. a. , 2012 , arxiv:1207.2749 [ astro-ph.ga ] marigo p. , girardi l. , bressan a. , groenewegen m. a. t. , silva l. , granato g. l. , 2008 , a&a , 482 , 883 minniti d. et al . , 2010 ,",
    "newa , 15 , 433 minniti d. , saito r. k. , alonso - garca j. , lucas p. w. , hempel m. , 2011 , apjl , 733 , l43 monai s. , bonifacio p , sbordone l. , 2005 , a&a , 433 , 241 nataf d. m. et al .",
    ", 2012 , arxiv:1208.1263 [ astro-ph.ga ] nelder j. a. , mead r. , 1965 , computer journal , 7 , 308 north p. , gauderon r. , barblan f. , royer f. , 2010 , a&a , 520 , a74 paczyski b. , 1997 , in m. livio , ed . , conference paper space telescope science institute series , the extragalactic distance scale , cambridge univ . press , cambridge , p. 273",
    "pietrzyski g. et al . , 2013 , nat , 495 , 76 press w. h. , teukolsky s. a. , vetterling w. t. , flannery b. p. , 1992",
    ", numerical recipes in c. the art of scientific computing , cambridge univ . press , cambridge ratajczak m. ,",
    "2013 , in preparation ribas i. , 2004 , newar , 48 , 731 ribas i. , jordi c. , vilardell f. , fitzpatrick e. l. , hilditch r. w. , guinan e. f. , 2005 , apj , 635 , l37 ruciski s. m. , 1997 , aj , 113 , 407 ruciski s. m. , 2004 , newar , 13 , 458 saito r. k. et al .",
    ", 2012 , a&a , 537 , 107 schlegel d.  j. , finkbeiner d.  p. , davis m. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 525 schwarzenberg - czerny , a. , 1989 , mnras , 241 , 153 southworth j. w. , maxted p. f. l. , smalley b. , 2005 , a&a , 429 , 645 sumi t. , 2004 , mnras , 349 , 193 udalski a. , szymaski m. , kauny j. , kubiak m. , mateo m. , 1992 , aca , 42 , 253 vanhollebeke e. , groenewegen m. a. t. , girardi l. , 2009 , a&a , 498 , 95 vilardell f. , ribas i. , jordi c. , fitzpatrick e. l. , guinan e. f. , 2010a , a&a , 509 , a70 vilardell f. , ribas i. , jordi c. , fitzpatrick e. l. , guinan e. f. , tsodikovich y. , mazeh t. , 2010b , in pra a. , zejda m. , eds , binaries  key to comprehension of the universe , astronomical society of pacific , san francisco , p. 375",
    "woniak p. r. et al . , 2002 , aca , 52 , 129",
    "phase - folded @xmath0-band light curves of the 23 researched systems .",
    "dots show single magnitude measurements and gray lines are the best - fitting models found by meci .",
    "because the solutions are done for a general case of non - zero eccentricity , the zero - phase is set to the time of periastron .",
    "as it is discussed , most likely all systems have circular orbits .",
    "the 16 closest systems from our sample plotted over the reconstructed image of the milky way from @xcite ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first results of a project aiming to trace the spatial structure of the milky way using detached eclipsing binaries ( debs ) as distance indicators . </S>",
    "<S> a sample of debs from the ogle - ii catalogue was selected and their near infrared photometry was taken from the vista variables in the via lactea ( vvv ) survey . the @xmath0 band ogle - ii light curves are used to create models of the debs , which together with the vvv photometry are compared with a set of theoretical isochrones . after correcting for stellar reddening </S>",
    "<S> , we find a set of absolute physical parameters of components of a given binary , including absolute magnitudes and distances .    </S>",
    "<S> with this approach we can calculate the distances with the precision better than 5 per cent . even though we have a few systems , the distribution is not homogeneous along the line of sight , and appears to follow the overall structure of the galaxy  several spiral arms and the bulge are distinguishable . </S>",
    "<S> a number of systems can be seen behind the bulge , reaching even the distance to the sagittarius dwarf galaxy .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxy : structure  binaries : eclipsing . </S>"
  ]
}