{
  "article_text": [
    "the question of coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity appears very often in correlated electron systems . in this context , both the spin - singlet and the spin - triplet paired states should be considered .",
    "a general motivation for considering here the spin - triplet pairing is provided by the discoveries of superconductivity in sr@xmath0ruo@xmath1 @xcite , uge@xmath0 @xcite , urhge @xcite , uir @xcite , and ucoge @xcite . in the last four compounds ,",
    "superconductivity indeed coexists with ferromagnetism .",
    "moreover , for both , the spin - singlet high - temperature superconductors and the heavy - fermion systems , the antiferromagnetism and the superconductivity can have the same origin .",
    "hence , it is natural to ask whether ferromagnetism and spin - triplet superconductivity also have the same origin in the itinerant uranium ferromagnets .",
    "a related and a very nontrivial question is concerned with the coexistence of antiferromagnetism with triplet superconducting state as in uni@xmath0al@xmath2 @xcite and upt@xmath2 @xcite .",
    "it has been argued earlier @xcite that for the case of indistinguishable fermions , the intra - atomic hund s rule exchange can lead in a natural manner to the coexistence of spin - triplet superconductivity with magnetic ordering - ferromagnetism or antiferromagnetism in the simplest situations .",
    "this idea has been elaborated subsequently by us @xcite by means of the combined hartree - fock(hf)-bardeen - cooper - shrieffer(bcs ) approach . in particular , the phase diagrams have been determined which contain regions of stability of the pure superconducting phase of type a ( i.e. , the equal - spin - paired phase ) , as well as superconductivity coexisting with either ferromagnetism or antiferromagnetism .",
    "the hf approximation , as a rule , overestimates the stability of phases with a broken symmetry .",
    "therefore , in this work , we apply the gutzwiller approximation for the same selection of phases in order to examine explicitly the effects of interelectronic correlations .",
    "the extension of the gutzwiller method to the multi - band case @xcite provides us with the so - called renormalization factors for our degenerate two - band models . with these factors",
    "we construct an effective hamiltonian by means of the _ statistically consistent gutzwiller approximation _ , sga , in which additional constraints are added to the standard gutzwiller approximation ( ga ) and with the incorporation of which the single - particle state has been determined ( see @xcite for exemplary applications of the sga method ) . the detailed phase diagram and the corresponding order parameters",
    "are determined as functions of the microscopic parameters such as the band filling , @xmath3 , the hund s rule exchange integral , @xmath4 , and the hubbard interaction parameters , @xmath5 and @xmath6 .",
    "the obtained results are compared with those coming out from the hartree - fock approximation . in this manner",
    ", the paper extends the discussion of itinerant magnetism within the canonical ( extended hubbard ) model , appropriate for this purpose , to the analysis of pure and coexisting superconducting - magnetic states within a single unified approach . additionally , at the end",
    ", we dwell briefly on the applicability of our original concepts to more realistic systems .",
    "it should be noted that theoretical investigations regarding the spin - triplet pairing have been performed recently also for other systems @xcite .",
    "the paper is composed as follows . in sec .",
    "ii we provide the principal aspects of real - space spin - triplet pairing induced by the hund s rule coupling , and introduce the band - renormalization factors for our two - band model .",
    "furthermore , in subsections a and b of sec .",
    "ii we explain how the effective hamiltonian is constructed , according to the statistically consistent gutzwiller approximation , for all the phases considered in this work . in sec .",
    "iii we discuss the phase diagram , and the principal order parameters in the considered phases , whereas sec .",
    "iv contains the concluding remarks and outlook concerning future investigations to make the approach applicable to real systems .",
    "we consider the extended orbitally - degenerate hubbard hamiltonian , which has the form @xmath7 where @xmath8 label the orbitals and the first term describes electron hopping between atomic sites @xmath9 and @xmath10 . for @xmath11",
    "this term represents electron hopping with change of the orbital ( i.e. , hybridization in momentum space ) .",
    "the next two terms describe the coulomb interactions between electrons on the same atomic site .",
    "however the second term contains also the contribution , originating from the exchange interaction ( @xmath4 ) .",
    "the last term expresses the hund s rule i.e. , the ferromagnetic exchange between electrons localized on the same site , but on different orbitals .",
    "this term contributes to magnetic coupling and is responsible for the spin - triplet pairing leading to magnetic ordering , superconductivity and coexistent magnetic - superconducting phases . in the hamiltonian  ( [ eq : h_start ] )",
    ", we have disregarded the pair hopping term @xmath12 because it hardly influences the ordered phases which we analyze in this work . in our variational method",
    "we assume that the correlated state @xmath13 of the system can be expressed in the following manner @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the normalized non - correlated state to be determined later and @xmath16 is the gutzwiller correlator selected in the following form @xmath17 here , @xmath18 are the variational parameters , which are assumed to be real . in the two - band situation the local basis consists of 16 states ( see table [ table : values_tab ] ) , which are defined as follows @xmath19 where @xmath20 labels the four spin - orbital states ( in the @xmath21 notation : @xmath22 , respectively ) and @xmath23 is the number of electrons in the local state @xmath24 . in general , an index @xmath25 can be interpreted as a set in the usual mathematical sense .",
    "the creation operators in ( [ eq : i_stat ] ) are placed in ascending order , i.e. , @xmath26 . in an analogous manner",
    ", one can define the product of annihilation operators @xmath27 which are placed in descending order @xmath28 .",
    ".the local basis consisting of 16 configurations containing @xmath29 electrons , which are enumerated as shown below . [ cols= \" < ,",
    "< , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     [ table : values_tab ]",
    "the principal purpose of this paper was to formulate a many - particle method which allows to investigate the spin - triplet real - space pairing in correlated system with an orbital degeneracy .",
    "to this end , we have carried out a detailed analysis using the statistically - consistent gutzwiller approximation ( sga ) for the two - band degenerate hubbard model with the spin - triplet superconductivity and itinerant magnetism included , both treated on equal footing .",
    "the results were compared with those coming from the hartree - fock approximation amended with the bardeen - cooper - schrieffer ( bcs ) approach . the obtained hund s coupling and band filling dependences of the magnetic moment and the superconducting gap parameters are often similar from the qualitative point of view with those evaluated by means of the hf approximation .",
    "however , the stability regions of the considered phases are significantly different for the two applied methods . in sga ,",
    "the stable coexisting superconducting - ferromagnetic phase is absent while it appears in the hf approximation in a certain range of @xmath4 and @xmath3 values .",
    "furthermore , the coexistence of the paired state with antiferromagnetism appears much closer to the half - filled situation in sga than in hf approximation .",
    "for @xmath30 the superconductivity disappears and only the pure antiferromagnetism survives ; this state can be termed a correlated slater - insulator state , which evolves gradually into the mott - hubbard insulating state with increasing @xmath31 and @xmath32 .",
    "the influence of hybridization for both approximations is similar . with an increase of the @xmath33 parameter , the region of stability of the superconducting type - a phase narrows down in favor of the ns state . on the other hand , the antiferromagnetic phase is not affected in any significant manner by an increase of @xmath33 .",
    "the band renormalization factors approach unity as the interaction constants @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 tend to zero , what represents an additional test of our numerical results correctness .",
    "generally , in the low - coupling limit our present results reduce to those obtained in hf approximation analysed by us in @xcite , as it should be .",
    "it is important to emphasize that for both approaches the phase diagrams have been obtained for @xmath34 , i.e. for relatively low value of the hubbard interaction u , or equivalently , for a relatively high value of the hund s rule exchange integral . a complete analysis of the present model would require studying the stability of the spin - triplet superconductivity and its coexistence with magnetic ordering in the complementary regime @xmath35 , where the magnetism is favored against superconductivity .",
    "this regime has been the subject in a number of earlier papers @xcite , as then both the intraorbital , as well as the interorbital interaction is repulsive , and lead in a natural manner to magnetic ordering .      in connection with the remarks provided above",
    ", we would like to characterize briefly the possibility of extending the present model ( [ eq : h_start ] ) to the uranium systems in which superconductivity and ferromagnetism coexist in an unambiguous manner @xcite .",
    "first of all , the magnetic moment in those systems , particularly in uge@xmath0 and urhge , is quite large , with an associated molecular field in the megagauss range , which most probably rules out any spin - singlet character of pairing ( note that the curie temperature ( @xmath36 ) to the superconducting transition temperature ( @xmath37 ) ratio reaches in the uranium compounds the value @xmath38 ) . in spite of those circumstances , our solution does not provide any extended regime ( for the studied parameter range ) for the ferromagnetism - spin - triplet superconductivity coexistence . instead , in a wide range of band fillings , the coexisting sc+af phase is stable ( cf . fig .",
    "[ fig:1(a - f)]c and [ fig:1(a - f)]f ) , as well as the pure spin - triplet superconducting phase of type a ( the equal - spin - paired phase ) .",
    "the pure a phase seems to be realized in sr@xmath0ruo@xmath1 , though then a detailed three - orbital structure of the order parameter seems to be relevant @xcite .",
    "a direct application of our sga scheme to a realistic three - band system is more involved , as the number of parameters to minimize would lead to a computing time - consuming procedure , but still possible to tackle .",
    "the extension of the present model to the uranium system such as uge@xmath0 would require considering orbitally degenerate and correlated @xmath39 quasi - atomic states due to u and hybridized with the uncorrelated conduction band states .",
    "this means that we must have minimally a three - orbital system with two partially occupied @xmath40 quasi - atomic states ( so the hund s rule becomes operative ) and at least one extra conduction band .",
    "such situation may lead to a partial mott - localization phenomenon , i.e. , to a spontaneous decomposition of @xmath41 ( @xmath42 ) configuration of electrons into the localized and the itinerant parts @xcite .",
    "in such a situation , it is possible that the localized electrons are the source of ferromagnetism , whereas the itinerant particles are paired @xcite .",
    "this is not the type of coexistent phase we have in mind here , since in the model considered by us all the system electrons are indistinguishable in the quantum - mechanical sense .",
    "these considerations lead to the conclusion that one would require minimally a periodic anderson model with degenerate @xmath41 states , to mimic the uranium - based ferromagnetic superconductors .",
    "this variant of the multiple - band model is also very useful in the discussion of heavy - fermion compounds . moreover , in the systems represented by this model , the coexistence of antiferromagnetism and superconductivity has been shown to appear in both experiment @xcite and theory @xcite .",
    "more specifically for the systems upt@xmath2 and uni@xmath0al@xmath2 the coexistence of the spin - triplet pairing and the antiferromagnetism has already been suggested to appear @xcite , although not elaborated in any detail .",
    "one specific feature should be mentioned .",
    "namely , in the situation when we have antiferromagnetic superconductor , then there is also a strong theoretical indication that there is a spin - triplet component even for the pure spin - singlet mechanism of pairing @xcite .",
    "the spin - triplet important admixture results simply from a decomposition of the system into two sublattices with staggered magnetic moment .",
    "these and related features must be taken into quantitative analysis before any realistic consideration of concrete systems is carried out . in connection with the whole discussion , it is intriguing to ask if a symmetric model system of the type exemplified by hamiltonian ( [ eq : h_start ] ) could be experimentally realized in the optical lattice . some model systems ( e.g. , the hubbard model system ) have been experimentally achieved in this manner @xcite .    in relation to the spin - triplet real - space pairing induced by the hund s rule",
    ", one should also mention the spin fluctuations ( sf ) as a possible mechanism of spin - triplet pairing in both magnetic @xcite and liquid @xmath43he systems @xcite . within the present approach",
    "the spin fluctuations should be treated as quantum fluctuations around the present self - consistently renormalized mean field state @xcite . the real - space and",
    "the spin - fluctuation contributions may become of comparable magnitude in the close vicinity of the quantum critical point , where the ferro- or antiferro- states disappear under e.g. pressure .",
    "this is , however , a completely separate topic of studies .",
    "disscusions with jakub jdrak and jan kaczmarczyk are gratefully acknowledged .",
    "m.z . has been partly supported by the eu human capital operation program , polish project no . pokl.04.0101 - 00 - 434/08 - 00 .",
    "j.s . acknowledges the financial support from the foundation for polish science ( fnp ) within project team .",
    "the grant maestro from the national science center ( ncn ) was helpful for the pl - de cooperation within the present project on a unified approach to magnetism and superconductivity in correlated fermion systems .",
    "99        s. s. saxena , p. agarwal , k. ahilan , f. m. grosche , r. k. w. haselwimmer , m. j. steiner , e. pugh , i. r. walker , s. r. julian , p. monthoux , g. g. lonzarich , a. huxley , i. sheikin , d. braithwaite and j. flouquet , nature * 406 * , 587 ( 2000 ) .",
    "the first observation of weak ferromagnetism - superconductivity coexistence for the same electrons was reported in : a. koodziejczyk , b. v. b. sarkissian , and b. r. coles , j. phys .",
    "* 10 * , l333 ( 1980 ) . however , as the phases coexist only in a narrow range of temperatures the pairing is most probably of the spin - singlet nature , cf .",
    "b. wiendlocha , j. toboa , s. kaprzyk , and a. koodziejczyk , phys .",
    "rev b * 83 * , 094408 ( 2011 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an orbitally degenerate two - band hubbard model is analyzed with inclusion of the hund s rule induced spin - triplet paired states and their coexistence with magnetic ordering . the so - called _ statistically consistent gutzwiller approximation _ ( sga ) has been applied to the case of a square lattice . </S>",
    "<S> the superconducting gaps , the magnetic moment , and the free energy are analyzed as a function of the hund s rule coupling strength and the band filling . also , the influence of the intersite hybridization on the stability of paired phases is discussed . in order to examine the effect of correlations the results </S>",
    "<S> are compared with those calculated earlier within the hartree - fock ( hf ) approximation combined with the bardeen - cooper - schrieffer ( bcs ) approach . </S>",
    "<S> significant differences between the two used methods ( hf+bcs vs. sga+real - space pairing ) appear in the stability regions of the considered phases . </S>",
    "<S> our results supplement the analysis of this canonical model used widely in the discussions of pure magnetic phases with the detailed elaboration of the stability of the spin - triplet superconducting states and the coexistent magnetic - superconducting states . at the end , we briefly discuss qualitatively the factors that need to be included for a detailed quantitative comparison with the corresponding experimental results . </S>"
  ]
}