{
  "article_text": [
    "energy efficiency is an important issue in wbans because sensor nodes damage human body tissue .",
    "more importantly sensor nodes connected to body are battery operated devices , they have limited life time .",
    "so , mac protocols of wbans needs to be energy efficient and supports medical applications .",
    "it allows integration of low power intelligent sensor nodes .",
    "they are used to stream biological information from human body and transmit it to a control device called coordinator .",
    "this procedure is very helpful while monitoring health of a person and in case of emergency providing proper medication .",
    "mac protocol plays an important role in determining the energy efficiency of a protocol in wbans .",
    "traditional mac protocols focus on improving throughput and bandwidth efficiency . however , the most important thing is that they lack in energy conserving mechanisms .",
    "the main source of energy wastage are idle listening , overhearing and packet overhead . by controlling these energy waste sources ,",
    "maximizes the network lifetime . + wbans have many advantages like mobility of patient and independent monitoring of patient",
    ". it can work on wireless local area networks ( wlans ) , worldwide interoperability for microwave access ( wimax ) or internet to reliably transmit data to a server which is monitoring health issues .",
    "there are some requirements for the mac protocol design to be used in wbans .",
    "firstly all of protocols must have high qos ( quality of service ) , it must be reliable , it needs to support different medical applications . + by using different medium access techniques , different low power and energy efficient protocols for mac",
    "are proposed .",
    "the most important attributes of wbans are low power consumption and delay .",
    "different techniques are used with different protocol to control the delay and to improve the efficiency of mac protocol .",
    "techniques like energy efficient low duty cycle mac protocol [ 5 ] , energy efficient tdma based mac protocol [ 6 ] , traffic adaptive mac protocol [ 9 ] are used to improve energy efficiency and to control delay .",
    "+ the important techniques of mac protocol for wbans are time division multiple access ( tdma ) and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance ( csma / ca ) .",
    "frequency division multiple access ( fdma ) is very close to tdma however it is not used due to complexity in its hardware .",
    "pure aloha and slotted aloha are not used due to collision problems and high packet drop rates as well as low energy efficiency .",
    "there are several challenges in realization of the perfect multiple access technique for mac protocol design . a comprehensive overview to these accessing techniques is shown in table i.",
    "in paper @xcite , authors propose using a wake - up radio mechanism mac protocol for wireless body area network .",
    "comparison of tdma with csma / ca is also done in this paper .",
    "proposed mac protocol save energy by node going to sleep when there is no data and can be waked up on - demand by wake - up radio mechanism .",
    "this protocol works on principle of on - demand data .",
    "it reduces the idle time consumption of a node to a great extent . however , emergency traffic are not discussed in this paper , which is a major issue in wbans .",
    "+ phy and mac layers of ieee 802.15.6 standard are discussed by author in paper @xcite .",
    "they stated specifications and identified key aspects in both layers .",
    "moreover bandwidth efficiency with increase in payload size is also analyzed .",
    "they also discuss the different modes of security in the standard .",
    "however , bandwidth efficiency of the standard is only investigated for csma / ca .",
    "also they not discussed throughput and delay .",
    "+ authors in @xcite state that the ieee 802.15.4 standard is designed as a low power and low data rate protocol with high reliability .",
    "they analyze unslotted version of protocol with maximum throughput and minimum delay .",
    "the main purpose of 802.15.4 is to give low power , low cost and reliability .",
    "this standard defines a physical layer and a mac sub layer .",
    "it operates in either beacon enabled or non beacon mode .",
    "physical layer specifies three different frequency ranges : 2.4 ghz band with 16 channels , 915 mhz with 10 channels and 868 mhz with 1 channel .",
    "calculations are performed by considering only beacon enabled mode and with only one sender and receiver .",
    "however , it is high power consumed standard . as number of sender increases , efficiency of 802.15.4 decreases .",
    "throughput of 802.15.4 declines and delay increases when multiple radios are used because of increase in number of collisions .",
    "+ in paper @xcite , author proposes a modified mac protocol for wban which focuses on simplicity , dependability and power efficiency .",
    "it is used in contention access period and csma / ca is used in contention free period .",
    "data is transmitted in the contention free period where as cap is only used for command packets and best effort data packets . however ,",
    "propagation delay is not neglected which we consider in our comparison and also interference from other wban nodes are not taken into account while doing calculation .",
    "technique which are used by the author have high delay as compared to tdma and fdma .",
    "+ in this paper @xcite , authors introduced a tdma - based energy efficient mac protocol for in - vivo communications between mobile nodes in bsns using uplink / downlink asymmetric network architecture .",
    "they also proposed tdma scheduling scheme and changeable frame formats .",
    "the latency optimization is discussed and the performance is improved by reducing the data slot duration .",
    "however they have not elaborated about throughput and delay sensitive application .",
    "+ energy efficient tdma based mac protocol is described in @xcite .",
    "protocol in this paper minimizes the amount of idle listening by sleep mode this is to reduce extra cost for synchronization .",
    "it listens for synchronization messages after a number of time frames which results in extremely low communication power .",
    "however , this protocol lacks wake - up radio mechanism for on demand traffic and emergency traffic . + authors describe energy efficient low duty cycle mac protocol for wbans in paper @xcite .",
    "tdma are compared with csma / ca .",
    "tdma based protocol outperforms csma / ca in all areas . collision free transfer , robustness to communication errors , energy efficiency and real time patient monitoring are the flaws that are overcome in this paper .",
    "however , synchronization is required while using tdma technique . with increase in data",
    ", tdma energy efficiency decreases due to queuing . as network topology changes tdma experiences degradation in performance .",
    "+ in this @xcite , authors propose a new protocol medmac and they elaborate novel synchronization mechanism , which facilitates contention free tdma channels , without a prohibitive synchronization overhead .",
    "they focus on power efficiency of medmac .",
    "also they show that medmac performs better than ieee 802.15.4 for very low data rate applications , like pulse and temperature sensors ( less than 20 bps ) .",
    "however , they have discussed about collisions but they have not focused on delay in the applications . + in paper @xcite , authors propose technique for mechanism of low power for wban , that defines traffic patterns of sensor nodes to ensure power efficient and reliable communication .",
    "they classify traffic pattern into three different traffic patterns ( normal traffic , on - demand traffic and emergency traffic ) for both on - body and in - body sensor networks .",
    "however they have not taken care for the delay and throughput . also complete implementation of their proposed protocol",
    "is still to be done .",
    "+ an ultra low power and traffic adaptive protocol designed for wbans is discussed in @xcite .",
    "they used a traffic adaptive mechanism to accommodate on - demand and emergency traffic through wake - up radio .",
    "wake - up radio is low power consumption technique because it uses separate control channel with data channel .",
    "comparison of power consumption and delay of ta - mac with ieee 802.15.4 , wise mac , smac are done in this paper . + authors evaluate performance of ieee 802.15.4 mac , wise mac , and smac protocols for a non - invasive wban in terms of energy consumption and delay in @xcite .",
    "ieee 802.15.4 mac protocol are improved for low - rate applications by controlling the beacon rate .",
    "in addition , beacons are sent according to the wakeup table maintained by the coordinator .",
    "however , authors have not discussed delay and offered load in their paper .",
    "+ in this paper @xcite , authors introduce a context aware mac protocol which switch between normal state and emergency state resulting in dynamic change in data rate and duty cycle of sensor node to meet the requirement of latency and traffic loads .",
    "also they use tdma frame structure to save power consumption .",
    "additionally a novel optional synchronization scheme is propose to decrease the overhead caused by traditional tdma synchronization scheme .",
    "however , throughput in this paper is not addressed .",
    "+    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]          we evaluate the effect of offered load on throughput of different medium access protocols .",
    "throughput and offered load are significant parameters for evaluating the performance of accessing techniques .",
    "throughput and offered load performance of an accessing technique shows the capability of handling network resource with increasing capacity in a network .",
    "fig 11 depicts the comparison of throughput and offered load of pure aloha , slotted aloha , fdma , tdma and csma / ca medium access protocols .",
    "these protocols are evaluated as function of offered load .",
    "offered load is total traffic load which is offered to a network .",
    "throughput is the average rate of successful delivery of packet on a communication channel .",
    "offered load and throughput pays pivot role in determining the efficient protocol under increasing traffic . from fig 10",
    "it can be deduce that fdma surpass other protocols .",
    "due to the fact that in fdma users are assigned different frequencies to access medium and which means each node has different frequency to its packet .",
    "so scalability is not an issue in fdma .",
    "tdma and slotted aloha performance is closest to fdma .",
    "tdma is a time division technique .",
    "each user is assigned different time slots to access the medium and so scalability is a major problem with tdma . in slotted aloha transmission",
    "can only be initiated at the beginning of frame if data not sent at the beginning of frame then data can not be send in middle or end of frame .",
    "csma / ca and aloha have poor performance .",
    "csma / ca is a contention base protocol .",
    "csma / ca sense medium before transmitting data onto medium if it found medium to be free then it transmits . in csma",
    "/ ca as offered load increases collision between packets also increase which indeed results in low throughput .",
    "aloha sends data without sensing the medium so its throughput is slightly better than csma / ca .    for very - low offered load fdma and",
    "tdma has higher throughput however as offered load increases their throughput gradually becomes constant .",
    "meanwhile slotted aloha performs better in medium - offered load as compared to rest of protocols .",
    "however , when offered load increased it performs similar to tdma , aloha and csma / ca .",
    "so overall frequency division multiple access ( fdma ) outperforms every other protocol .",
    "in this paper different multiple access techniques of mac protocol which are used in wireless body area networks have been compared .",
    "techniques are tdma , fdma , csma / ca , aloha and saloha .",
    "algoritham for all these techniques are given in this paper showing their working .",
    "mathematical equations for the calculation of throughput for all these technqiues have been shown in section iv .",
    "table i shows the comparison of these techniques with different parameters .",
    "+ performance metrices for the comparison of these techniques are throughput , delay and offered load . comparison has been done between performance metirces throughput and delay , delay and offered load and offered load and throughput .",
    "matlab is the tool that is used for simulations .",
    "developing the five access techniques in different scenarios and comparing their graphical results proved that tdma is the best technqiue to be used in wban with increase in load , because it has the highest throught and minimum delay which is the most important requirement of wireless body area networks .",
    "future work includes performance comparison of these techniques with varying conditions and introducing other metrices .",
    "ameen , m. a. , ullah , n. , & kwak , k. ( 2011 , october ) . design and analysis of a mac protocol for wireless body area network using wakeup radio . in communications and information technologies ( iscit ) ,",
    "2011 11th international symposium on ( pp .",
    "148 - 153 ) .",
    "kwak , k. s. , ullah , s. , & ullah , n. ( 2010 , november ) .",
    "an overview of ieee 802.15 . 6 standard . in applied sciences in biomedical and communication technologies ( isabel ) ,",
    "2010 3rd international symposium on ( pp",
    ". 1 - 6 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "li , c. , wang , l. , li , j. , zhen , b. , li , h. b. , & kohno , r. ( 2009 , september ) .",
    "scalable and robust medium access control protocol in wireless body area networks . in personal , indoor and mobile radio communications , 2009 ieee",
    "20th international symposium on ( pp .",
    "2127 - 2131 ) .",
    "lin , l. , wong , k. j. , kumar , a. , tan , s. l. , & phee , s. j. ( 2011 , june ) .",
    "an energy efficient mac protocol for mobile in - vivo body sensor networks .",
    "in ubiquitous and future networks ( icufn ) , 2011 third international conference on ( pp .",
    "95 - 100 ) .",
    "marinkovic , s. , spagnol , c. , & popovici , e. ( 2009 , june ) .",
    "energy - efficient tdma - based mac protocol for wireless body area networks . in sensor technologies and applications , 2009 .",
    "third international conference on ( pp .",
    "604 - 609 ) .",
    "marinkovic , s. j. , popovici , e. m. , spagnol , c. , faul , s. , & marnane , w. p. ( 2009 ) .",
    "energy - efficient low duty cycle mac protocol for wireless body area networks .",
    "information technology in biomedicine , ieee transactions on , 13(6 ) , 915 - 925 .",
    "timmons , n. f. , & scanlon , w. g. ( 2009 , may ) . an adaptive energy efficient mac protocol for the medical body area network . in wireless communication , vehicular technology , information theory and aerospace & electronic systems technology , 2009 .",
    "wireless vitae 2009 .",
    "1st international conference on ( pp .",
    "587 - 593 ) .",
    "nf timmons and wg scanlon .",
    "an adaptive energy efficient mac protocol for the medical body area network . in wireless communication , vehicular technology , information theory and aerospace & electronic systems technology , 2009 .",
    "wireless vitae 2009 .",
    "1st international conference on , pages 587593 .",
    "ieee , 2009 .",
    "ullah , s. , khan , p. , & kwak , k. s. ( 2009 ) . on the development of low - power mac protocol for wbans .",
    "imecs , 1 .",
    "ullah , s. , & kwak , k. s. ( 2012 ) .",
    "an ultra low - power and traffic - adaptive medium access control protocol for wireless body area network .",
    "journal of medical systems , 36(3 ) , 1021 - 1030 .",
    "ullah , s. , & kwak , k. s. ( 2010 , september ) .",
    "performance study of low - power mac protocols for wireless body area networks . in personal , indoor and mobile radio communications workshops ( pimrc workshops ) ,",
    "2010 ieee 21st international symposium on ( pp .",
    "112 - 116 ) .",
    "yan , z. , & liu , b. ( 2011 , july ) .",
    "a context aware mac protocol for medical wireless body area network . in wireless communications and mobile computing conference ( iwcmc ) ,",
    "2011 7th international ( pp .",
    "2133 - 2138 ) . ieee ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents comparison of access techniques used in medium access control ( mac ) protocol for wireless body area networks ( wbans ) . </S>",
    "<S> comparison is performed between time division multiple access ( tdma ) , frequency division multiple access ( fdma ) , carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance ( csma / ca ) , pure aloha and slotted aloha ( s - aloha ) . </S>",
    "<S> performance metrics used for comparison are throughput(t ) , delay(d ) and offered load(g ) . </S>",
    "<S> the main goal for comparison is to show which technique gives highest throughput and lowest delay with increase in load . </S>",
    "<S> energy efficiency is major issue in wban that is why there is need to know which technique performs best for energy conservation and also gives minimum delay . </S>",
    "<S> simulations are performed for different scenarios and results are compared for all techniques . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest tdma as best technique to be used in mac protocol for wbans due to its high throughput and minimum delay with increase in load . </S>",
    "<S> matlab is the tool that is used for simulation .    </S>",
    "<S> pure aloha , slotted aloha , csma / ca , tdma , fdma , wireless body area networks , throughput , delay , offered load </S>"
  ]
}