{
  "article_text": [
    "the segmented enriched germanium assembly ( sega ) is a prototype detector for the majorana experiment that is predominately focused on the search for neutrinoless double beta - decay of @xmath0ge @xcite .",
    "the observation of neutrinoless double beta - decay would establish that neutrinos are majorana particles , show that lepton number is not conserved , and provide information concerning the absolute neutrino mass scale @xcite .",
    "the ultimate goal of the majorana experiment is to probe neutrinoless double beta - decay half - lives greater than 10@xmath1 years and the absolute neutrino mass scale at 20 - 40 mev .",
    "the search for such rare events requires significant effort to reduce the effects of background events , which include cosmic rays , decay events from natural and cosmogenic radioisotopes , and two - neutrino double beta - decay events .",
    "methods to eliminate backgrounds include the use of ultra - pure materials , shielding from external sources , optimization of energy resolution , segmentation , and pulse - shape analysis ( psa ) .",
    "the goal of the tonne - scale majorana experiment is to reduce background events to 1 count / tonne / year in an approximately 4 kev region - of - interest ( roi ) centered around the @xmath0ge q - value of 2039 kev .",
    "the majorana collaboration is currently focusing development efforts towards p - type , point contact detectors @xcite for the majorana demonstrator project @xcite ; however the remarkable event reconstruction and background rejection capabilities of segmented n - type detectors make them an interesting alternative @xcite . for",
    "both of these geometries , optimum background rejection is achieved by analysis of pulse shapes to differentiate backgrounds from a potential neutrinoless double beta - decay signal .",
    "this is possible primarily because double beta - decay gives rise to a `` single - site '' event in which ionization is deposited in a very small volume , with a maximum linear dimension of about a millimeter , whereas events originating from background gamma - rays typically produce multiple compton scattering sites typically separated by a few centimeters . by analyzing the pulse - shape in each physical segment of our n - type detector",
    ", one can reconstruct and reject events which produce ionization in more than one segment or result in multiple ionization events in a single segment .",
    "a detailed analysis of the pulse - shapes and background rejection capabilities is the subject of an article in preparation @xcite . for more details on background rejection strategies ,",
    "refer to references @xcite .",
    "the sega detector is the first @xmath0ge enriched , segmented , n - type high purity germanium ( hpge ) detector .",
    "the gretina @xcite , agata @xcite , and gerda @xcite collaborations have already demonstrated the capability of reconstructing the event topology for high - energy ( near 2 mev ) events associated with double beta - decay with position resolution of a few millimeters through analysis of pulse shape and the image - charge distribution in similar , highly segmented n - type detectors .",
    "sega has also served as a test bench for engineering low - background crystal mounts and cryostats components for the n - type segmented geometry .",
    "finally , after installation in a low background cryostat , sega should also be a valuable tool for a variety of background studies .    in this article , we report on the general characteristics and performance of the sega detector in a temporary cryostat .",
    "the fragility of the outer , p - type lithographic contacts presents some risk in the transfer to a permanent , low background set of contacts , so we present the preliminary performance of this system as a benchmark in our progress towards implementing a low background configuration underground .",
    "the electronic noise characteristics were not optimal , which was primarily due to  warm \" preamplifiers , with long contact - to - preamplifier wires .",
    "however , our analysis of the system indicates that sega can meet the performance specifications for a large scale double beta - decay experiment when equipped with cold fets , mounted as close as possible to the crystal .",
    "sega is an n - type hpge detector enriched to 85% @xmath0ge with 6 outer , azimuthal and 2 central , axial segmentations .",
    "the ge material used to produce sega was composed of three separate batches from itep @xcite , igex @xcite , and dubna @xcite , with the respective @xmath0ge enrichment abundances and masses of 87.1% [ 4 kg ] , 80.8% [ 3.7 kg ] , and 86.8% [ 3.3 kg ] .",
    "the 1.374 kg detector has a diameter of 64.8 mm and a total length of 80.0 mm .",
    "the six outer contacts were produced by implanting the masked ge with 100 kev @xmath2b ions .",
    "the resulting inter - segment gap is 170 microns .",
    "the two internal lithium contacts are produced using novel , monolithic segmentation technology developed by ortec @xcite .",
    "the internal contact segmentation results in a ( c2 ) contact which is situated on the surface of a 18.2 mm diameter hole bored 58.0 mm into the crystal and a ( c1 ) contact positioned on a 10.5 mm dimple at the bottom of the bored hole .",
    "this segmentation geometry results in 12 physical segments ( six in a cylindrical geometry and six in a  hockey puck \" geometry ) and is referred to as the ortec pt6x2 geometry @xcite , with an idealized example depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : pt62 ] .",
    "a possible advantage of this scheme for double beta - decay measurements is that the resultant 12 physical segments are produced with only eight instrumented contacts , minimizing the required front - end electronics per physical segment .",
    "we note that the resultant segment volumes were near those selected for prototype designs of the majorana experiment using n - type detector arrays @xcite .",
    "the labeling of the twelve physical segments of the sega detector follows a cxsy format , where x and y represent one of the two central and six outer contacts , which may also be referred to as channels , respectively . in order to avoid loss of enriched ge in this prototype detector ,",
    "the closed end , outer surface of the sega detector was not  bulletized \" , as indicated in fig .",
    "[ fig : pt62 ] , resulting in low electric fields and poorer charge collection in the corners of the closed end .",
    "detectors used in a germanium double beta - decay experiment would be bulletized .",
    "all of the tests and performance data presented in this document were taken with the sega detector mounted in a temporary cryostat .",
    "the detector was mounted vertically with the central bore oriented with the hole upward ( c2 above c1 ) .",
    "the outer contacts are copper leaf - springs with a 25 mm@xmath3 , 0.5 mm thick indium foil at the point of contact between the spring and the detector face .",
    "the central contacts were mounted to a brass rod which was inserted into the central bore of the detector : the c2 contacts were leaf - springs attached to the rod and the c1 contact was a gold - coated brass plug mounted on the end of the rod ( with indium foil at the point of contact with the crystal ) and kept in contact with the crystal .",
    "the detector was mounted in a central shield to provide thermal isolation and held in place with ptfe pads ( with cu coated ptfe straps to provide good thermal contact with the base plate ) .",
    "the cryostat was configured as a dip - stick and inserted in a standard , ortec ln@xmath4 dewar .",
    "the temperature of the crystal was maintained at 93 to 97 k , as monitored by a platinum resistor mounted to the base plate .",
    "the detector signals were routed out of the cryostat to heko preamplifiers @xcite with warm fets , which have an input capacitance of 15 pf and a maximum energy throughput of about 10 gev / s . when the detector is biased , the inner segments have a calculated capacitance of 14 - 20 pf for c1 and 40 pf for c2 , and the outer segments have calculated capacitances of 9 - 10 pf .",
    "the high voltage is applied to the central contacts via separate 2 g@xmath5 load resistors with the two central contacts being ac coupled to the preamps via 2.7 nf , 6 kv ceramic capacitors .",
    "the signals were processed using two xia dgf-4c @xcite ( digital gamma finder with 4 channels ) modules , which digitized the signals using 14-bit , 40 mhz adcs .",
    "these modules can store up to 100 @xmath6s waveforms per event , perform pulse - shape analysis , and extract a real time energy using an on - board trapezoidal filter into a spectrum with up to 32k channels .",
    "each channel has a real - time processing unit ( rtpu ) , which is equipped with a field programmable gate array ( fpga ) and a fifo memory .",
    "when an event is detected in the fpga , a trigger is issued to the digital signal processor ( dsp ) , which then processes the data and prepares it to be read out by the camac interface to the computer .",
    "the system is configured to read out all eight channels when a trigger is issued in either of the 2 central - contact channels .",
    "the configuration of the system in the temporary cryostat did not accommodate instrumenting a pulser for all contacts , so the response of the detector system to external radioactive sources was used to characterize the detector performance .",
    "for pulse - shape analysis ( psa ) studies , the electric - field profile for sega was calculated ( see fig . [",
    "fig : fieldprofile ] ) . an impurity concentration , based on measurements at ortec , which varied from 3.0@xmath7/@xmath8 at the open end of the crystal to 2.7@xmath9/@xmath8 at the closed end was used , along with no radial gradient . from this electric - field profile",
    "it is evident that the closed end has low - field regions near the edge of the crystal where charge collection is expected to be less efficient .        in efforts to quantitatively assess the effects of the low - field regions ,",
    "rise - time and low - energy tail analyses were done with a @xmath10co source .",
    "it was found that c1 segment s rise - time means were greater than c2 segment s rise - time means , with all segments means ranging from 170 ns to 250 ns and less than 0.2% events having rise - times greater than 400 ns .",
    "low - energy tails on the photopeaks were also found to be present and the degree of low - energy tailing is shown in figs .",
    "[ fig : lowetail ] and [ tab : fw2 ] ( see appendix c ) .",
    "the 1332 kev photopeaks were fit with both a gaussian and a modified gaussian function @xcite shown below , which took into account the low - energy tail . @xmath11",
    "as expected , due to the low - field regions , the fwfm / fwhm ratios in table [ tab : fw2 ] show significant deviations of the modified gaussian functional fit from the gaussian functional fit for the sxc1 channels . to further support the deviations from a gaussian functional fit ,",
    "the integrated number of counts in the low - energy tail as a ratio to the number of counts in the photopeak is presented in table [ tab : fw2 ] .",
    "the increased size of the low - energy tails for the s channels coupled to c1 as opposed to c2 is evident .          the depletion voltage was determined at ortec by peak efficiency measurements of the 1332 kev @xmath10co @xmath12 rays as a function of bias voltage while connecting the two central contacts ( c1 and c2 ) . from these measurements and observations of the behavior of the central contacts which become independent only when the detector is almost fully depleted , it was determined that the depletion voltage for the crystal is 4750 v and an operating voltage of 4800 v was deemed appropriate ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : fullpeakenergy ] ) .",
    "co 1332 kev @xmath12-ray peak ( for the c1 and c2 channels connected together ) as a function of bias voltage .",
    "the slope of the efficiency curve approaches zero as the operating voltage is reached , confirming that effectively all charge deposited in the detector is collected.,scaledwidth=75.0% ]      one challenge associated with the fabrication of sega was the reduction of the leakage current to an acceptable level . in order to accomplish this task without reprocessing all of the enriched germanium multiple times , ortec re - etched the surface of the crystal and produced new contacts until an  acceptably \" low leakage current was obtained .",
    "ultimately the leakage current was determined by ortec to be roughly 350 pa by connecting together all of the outer contacts ( s1-s6 ) and measuring the current to ground with a bias voltage of 4800 v applied to the central contacts c1 and c2 .",
    "even so , this leakage current was about factor of two above what ortec considered  optimal \" .",
    "it should be noted that , ortec also performed similar leakage current measurements of a non - enriched prototype detector with the pt6x2 geometry and found the leakage current to be 72 pa and 80 pa at 3200 v and 3300 v respectively @xcite . for a quantitative treatment of the impact of leakage current on the resolution",
    "4.7 and appendix b.    additional measurements of the leakage current for each segment were performed at triangle universities nuclear laboratory ( tunl ) soon after receiving the sega detector from ortec . for these measurements the detector was fully biased and left overnight , since it was found the leakage current would decrease significantly after the first few hours after applying bias to the detector . the following morning ,",
    "the voltage was slowly stepped down and the leakage current measured through each outer segment after the current was allowed to settle for approximately 15 minutes . from this study",
    "it was found that the dominant source of leakage current was segment s4 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : leakage ] ) . this overall pattern ( segment s4 being the dominant source of leakage current )",
    "was maintained over the 10 year period for which the measurements documented in this work were performed .",
    "however , there was a significant increase in the magnitude of the leakage current over this period ( see sec .",
    "4.7 and appendix b for details ) .          in order to assess the active volume within the detector ,",
    "the intrinsic peak efficiency was measured using a 3.15 @xmath6ci @xmath10co source .",
    "first , by scanning with a @xmath13co source it was determined that the crystal , within the cryostat , was positioned 4.1 cm from the endcap .",
    "then , the @xmath10co source was placed approximately 25 cm above the top of the crystal .",
    "it should be noted that this method is slightly different from the ieee standard efficiency measurement @xcite where the source is placed 25 cm from the endcap .",
    "data were recorded for approximately 43 hrs to reduce the statistical uncertainty in the sum - peak to less than 5% .",
    "the rate was approximately 700 hz with our system livetime near 20% , which was limited by the throughput of the camac controller .",
    "for these data the trapezoidal filter rise and gap times were set to 10.8 @xmath6s and 1.6 @xmath6s respectively ( corresponding to an effective shaping time of approximately 6 @xmath6s for semi - gaussian filters ) @xcite .    to determine the full energy deposited within the detector for a given event ,",
    "the energy for each of the outer s channels ( s1-s6 ) were summed , and because of the coupling between segments , a cross - talk correction @xcite was applied ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : xtalkcomp ] in sec .",
    "4.6 ) . by analyzing the number of counts in the two @xmath10co @xmath12 peaks and in their sum - energy peak ( 2505 kev )",
    ", it was possible to determine the intrinsic peak efficiency at 1173 kev and 1332 kev , which were 13.9@xmath141.7% and 12.8@xmath141.3% respectively , where the error value is dominated by a 5% uncertainty in the source and detector relative positioning .",
    "sum - coincidence and angular correlation effects were accounted for in this study , while the effect of system dead time was avoided using the sum - peak method .",
    "these measurements were found to be in reasonable agreement with a simulation of the as built sega detector geometry using the mage package @xcite , which yielded values of 14.9@xmath140.3% and 13.8@xmath140.2% respectively .",
    "the simulated geometry is depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : simgeo ] . for 1332 kev the measured and simulated efficiency values relative to a 7.62 cm diameter @xmath15 7.62 cm length nai(tl ) detector are 108@xmath1411.0% and 115@xmath141.7% respectively .",
    "energy measurements were either made using the trapezoidal filter in the xia , dgf-4c module @xcite , or in some special cases , directly from trace data .",
    "the xia trapezoidal filter is designed to be relatively insensitive to the signal rate and uses a large running sample of the baseline to accurately determine its contributions to the filter sums .",
    "the filter takes as input the preamplifier decay times ( approximately 48 @xmath6s ) , which were determined by fitting large samples of 40 @xmath6s long traces for each segment .",
    "the system linearity was analyzed using the same data set from the efficiency study and fitting to the various backgound and @xmath12-ray lines listed in table [ tab : linsource ] using a gaussian function with a linear background .",
    "the centroids from the gaussian fits to the peaks were then fit with a linear function .",
    "the results are depicted in fig .",
    "[ linearity1 ] , where we note that the y - intercepts were all smaller than 0.56 kev and the integral linearity was better than 0.067% at one sigma level for all channels .",
    "we also note the detector was calibrated a number of times ( over a period of 10 years ) using linear and quadratic functions along with a variety of lines .",
    "there was almost no variation in the extracted calibration parameters and the quadratic terms were less than 4.2@xmath16 kev resulting in corrections of less than 0.2% to the calibrated energy values out to 2039 kev .    .@xmath12-ray",
    "sources used for system linearity evaluation . [",
    "cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     detailed measurements with 40 @xmath6s traces were conducted in 2009 , motivating the reinvestigation of the leakage currents measured in 2003 .",
    "the 2009 measurements are in qualitative agreement with the 2003 data ( s4 dominate source of leakage current ) and indicates , for most channels , the parallel noise is roughly consistent with expectations .",
    "we do not understand the reason our leakage current increased , or why the values calculated for some channels are inconsistent with the feedback resistor measurements .",
    "because the detector was warmed , pumped , and recooled several times between 2003 and 2009 , changes in surface conditions on the contacts may be partially responsible for the observed increase in leakage currents .",
    "fwhm values at 1332 kev using both a gaussian functional fit and a modified gaussian functional fit @xcite are listed in table [ tab : fw2 ] . for all but two segments",
    "there is at least one channel with a measured value which reaches the targeted resolution goal of 4 kev fwhm at 2039 kev and improvement is expected once several grounding and shielding issues are resolved .",
    "it should also be noted that by optimizing the rise - time values for the trapezoidal filter all segments have at least one channel reaching the majorana specification .",
    "also listed are the fwtm / fwhm and fwfm / fwhm ratios for the modified gaussian functional fit , along with the integrated number of counts in the low - energy tail as a ratio to the number of counts in the photopeak .",
    "the deviations from a gaussian functional fit for the fwfm / fwhm and integrated number of counts in the low - energy tail both suggest charge - collection issues are present for the sxc1 channels .      c. e. aalseth et al .",
    ", phys . atom .",
    "67 , ( 2004 ) , 2002 a. g. schubert et al .",
    ", aip conf .",
    "1441 , ( 2012 ) , 480 j. f. wilkerson et al . , j. phys .",
    "375 042010 , ( 2012 ) l. camilleri , e. lisi , j.f .",
    "wilkerson , annu .",
    "nucl . part .",
    "58 , ( 2008 ) , 343 f. t. avignone iii , s. r. elliott , and j. engel , rev .",
    "phys . , vol",
    ". 80 , ( 2008 ) , 481 a. s. barabash , phys .",
    "73 , ( 2010 ) , 162 p. s. barbeau , j. i. collar , and o. tench , j. of cosmol . and astropart .",
    ", vol . 9 , ( 2007 ) d. g. phillips ii et al .",
    ", j. phys .",
    "381 012044 , ( 2012 ) s. r. elliott et al .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a558 , ( 2006 ) , 504 m.a .",
    "deleplanque et al . , nucl .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a430 , ( 1999 ) , 292 i. abt et al .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a570 , ( 2007 ) , 479 a. r. young et al , internal majorana document , ( 2007 ) , full publication of these results is in development m. descovich et al . ,",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a553 , ( 2005 ) , 535 f. recchia et al .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a604 , ( 2009 ) , 555 i. abt et al .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a577 , ( 2007 ) , 474 i. abt et al . ,",
    "jinst 4 p11008 , ( 2009 ) the official itep homepage , url : http://www.itep.ru the official igex homepage , url : http://www.nu.to.infn.it the official jinr homepage , url : http://www.jinr.ru the official ortec homepage , url : http://www.ortec-online.com p. sangsingkeow et al . ,",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a505 , ( 2003 ) , 183 .",
    "please contact p. sangsingkeow ( pat.sangsingkeow@ametek.com ) for more detailed information concerning the pt6x2 geometry .",
    "j. eberth et al . , prog . in part . and nucl .",
    "46 , ( 2001 ) , 389 p. gamir , ph .",
    "d. dissertation , cranfield university , ( 1997 ) the official canberra homepage , url : http://www.canberra.com the official xia homepage , url : http://www.xia.com k. debertin and r.g .",
    "helmer , @xmath12 and x - ray spectrometry with semiconductor detectors,1988 ortec , private communication r. m. keyser and w. k. hensley , ieee trans .",
    ", vol . 1 , ( 2002 ) , 275 b. bruyneel et al . ,",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a608 , ( 2009 ) , 99 m. boswell et al .",
    ", ieee trans .",
    "58 , ( 2011 ) , 1212 h. tan et al .",
    ", ieee trans .",
    "51 , ( 2004 ) , 1541 d. radford , private communication g. f. knoll , radiation detection and measurement , wiley , 1979 g. bertuccio and a. pullia , rev . of sci .",
    "64 , ( 2009 ) , 3294 e. gatti et al .",
    "instr . and meth .",
    "a297 , ( 1990 ) , 467 w. e. drummond , ieee trans .",
    "ns18 , ( 1971 ) , 91 h. v. klapdor - kleingrothaus , eur .",
    "a 12 , ( 2001 ) , 148 c. e. aalseth et al .",
    ", phys . ref .",
    "59 , ( 1999 ) , 2109 i. abt et al .",
    "a583 , ( 2007 ) , 332 v. e. guiseppe et al .",
    ", ieee nucl .",
    "rec . , ( 2008 ) , 1793"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present data characterizing the performance of the first segmented , n - type ge detector , isotopically enriched to 85% @xmath0ge . </S>",
    "<S> this detector , based on the ortec pt6x2 design and referred to as sega ( segmented , enriched germanium assembly ) , was developed as a possible prototype for neutrinoless double beta - decay measurements by the majorana collaboration . </S>",
    "<S> we present some of the general characteristics ( including bias potential , efficiency , leakage current , and integral cross - talk ) for this detector in its temporary cryostat . </S>",
    "<S> we also present an analysis of the resolution of the detector , and demonstrate that for all but two segments there is at least one channel that reaches the majorana resolution goal below 4 kev fwhm at 2039 kev , and all channels are below 4.5 kev fwhm .    </S>",
    "<S> double beta decay , segmented , germanium , detector , majorana , neutrinoless </S>"
  ]
}