{
  "article_text": [
    "cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) are close interacting binary stars which consist of a white dwarf ( wd ) accreting material from a roche - lobe - filling companion , usually a late main - sequence star .",
    "intermediate polars ( ip ) are an important subset of cvs in which the magnetic field of the wd is strong enough to disrupt the inner accretion disc or even prevent disc formation completely and to force the accreting material to flow along field lines onto one or both magnetic poles .",
    "cvs are known to be very active photometrically , showing variability on time scales from seconds to years ( see review by @xcite ) . however , the only strictly periodic system clocks in cvs are associated with the binary orbital period and the rotation of the wd",
    ". they may also produce modulation sidebands ( beat periods ) often observed in light curves of ips ( see @xcite for the origin of optical pulsations in cvs ) . in addition to these strictly periodic oscillations ,",
    "unstable quasi - periodic oscillations and superhumps may appear in the light curves of cvs .",
    "we note that all these variabilities have periods much shorter , equal , or very close to the orbital period of the binary system .",
    "fs aurigae represents one of the most unusual cv to have ever been observed .",
    "the system is famous for a variety of uncommon and puzzling periodic photometric and spectroscopic variabilities which do not fit well into any of the established sub - classes of cvs .",
    "fs  aur  was discovered by @xcite , who classified it as a dwarf nova .",
    "h@xmath1 velocity variations with a period of 85.7 min ascribed to the binary orbital period ( op ) ,",
    "have been reported by @xcite .",
    "this period was confirmed by follow - up spectroscopic observations @xcite .",
    "@xcite also detected substantial orbital variability of emission line profiles and their equivalent widths .",
    "the light curve of fs  aur  is highly variable in its appearance , only sometimes showing the op .",
    "the outlandish peculiarity of fs  aur  is the existence of well - defined photometric optical modulations with the amplitude of up to @xmath2 mag and a very coherent long photometric period ( lpp ) of 205.5 min that exceeds the op by 2.4 times @xcite .",
    "furthermore , in late 2004 the optical brightness of the system dropped by 2 magnitudes for a few months .",
    "the spectral observations made in december 2004 , revealed a second long spectroscopic period ( lsp ) of 147 minutes , appearing in the far wings of the emission lines .",
    "frequency of this new period is equal exactly to the beat between the op and lpp : @xmath3 @xcite .",
    "it is interesting to note that the lpp has never been detected spectroscopically whereas the lsp has not been seen in the photometric data .",
    "the photometric and spectroscopic behaviour of fs  aur  somewhat resembles that of ips in which several periodic signals are often observed . nevertheless , the principal difference between fs  aur  and ips is in the time - scales of their variabilities : ( a ) most ips are relatively long orbital period systems : only 5 of the 36 confirmed / ironclad ips have an op below the period gap , and probably one more system lies in the period gap ; + ( b ) a spin period of wd in all ips is shorter than the orbital one , typically @xmath4 ( for a detailed review on ips , we refer the reader to @xcite and @xcite ) . in contrast , the period which is proposed to be the op of fs  aur , is the shortest of all the detected periods in the system , and is only a little longer than in sdss j233325.92 + 152222.1  the ip with the shortest - known orbital period",
    ".    this fact may call into question whether the orbital period has been correctly identified in fs  aur , and why , for instance , are 205.5 m , 147 m and 85.7 m not the orbital , beat and spin periods , respectively ?",
    "none the less , we claim that the 85.7 m period is indeed the op and our arguments are the following :    1 .",
    "it is commonly accepted that radial velocities are a much more reliable indicator of the orbital period than photometric variability .",
    "the lpp is the only period of the three detected in fs  aur  which is not seen spectroscopically , and as such can be definitely ruled out as an orbital period .",
    "both the 85.7 m period and the lsp are observed spectroscopically .",
    "the emission lines in many ips also vary at the orbital and spin periods . in few cases , emission - line fluxes , equivalent widths and radial velocity variations with the spin period dominate over variations with the orbital period .",
    "we note , however , that the character of these two types of variabilities is very different .",
    "the profiles of broad emission lines found in most of cvs are generally determined by the macroscopic motion of the emitting gas in the binary system .",
    "the periodic motion , due to doppler shifts , generates spectral components with a sinusoidal modulation of wavelength which revealed themselves as coherent s - waves in a trailed spectrogram . participating in the orbital motion , the main contributors to the emission lines  the accretion disc , secondary star , gas stream and bright spot ",
    "superpose many such s - waves with a wide range of velocity amplitudes and create a characteristic multicomponent trailed spectrogram . a good collection of such spectrograms is provided by @xcite .",
    "the trailed spectra of fs  aur  folded with the 85.7 m period closely resemble many of them . in contrast , the sources of the spin spectral variability are located in a more compact area around the accretion curtain and/or the innermost part of the accretion disc and as such dominate in the far wings of emission lines @xcite . the lsp variability in fs",
    "aur  has much more similarities with such spin variability .",
    "thus , we have no reason to believe that the lsp is the true orbital period , instead of the 85.7 m one .",
    "3 .   in v455 and ,",
    "another cataclysmic variable which , similarly to fs  aur , exhibits two very different spectral periods  a short one of 81 min and a longer one of 210 min @xcite  eclipses in the system s light curve unambiguously confirms the op to be 81 minutes .",
    "we therefore conclude that the weight of evidence favours 85.7 m as the op of fs  aur .",
    "the nature of the two other periods is thus still an open question .",
    "neither the lpp nor the lsp can be accepted as the period of rotation of the wd . on theoretical grounds , the spin period of the wd in ips",
    "is determined by the combined action of accretion and magnetic field @xcite .",
    "fast rotation can be expected given the large amount of angular momentum transferred by accreting matter .",
    "the wd is expected to spin - up to a value near to the rotation period at the inner edge of the accretion disc @xcite . from the observational point of view , no cvs have been found with the primary rotating so slowly .",
    "thus , the discovered multiple periodic phenomena in fs  aur  represent a real challenge to the theory of accretion processes in low mass close binaries .",
    "moreover , several other systems are now known to show variabilities with periods much longer than the orbital one ( gw lib , v455 and ) , and the origin of these modulations also remains unclear .",
    "it seems that fs  aur  and similar objects can represent a new type of cvs , which still needs an explanation of their nature .",
    ".journal of photometric observations of fs  aur ( _ set-2004 _ ) .",
    "the horizontal line divides two subsets , _",
    "set-04 _ and _ set-05_. [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     first the models were fitted to the strongest spectrum i.e. the averaged chandra spectrum .",
    "the two - temperature  model with solar abundance ( plus a gaussian and absorption ) gave a fit with @xmath5 with temperatures 0.67 and 8.35 kev .",
    "the fit further improves ( @xmath6 ) when the metal abundance is left to free to vary .",
    "a third component further improved the fit to @xmath7 .",
    "this fit gave temperatures of 0.64 , 1.68 and 11.8 kev .",
    "the inclusion of additional  components gave a negligible improvement in @xmath8 , so we show the parameters of the best - fit three - temperature  model in table  4 .",
    "even though a good fit to this averaged chandra spectrum was obtained , the detected x - ray energy - dependent orbital variability of fs  aur  ( section  [ sec : op ] ) suggests the distinct spectral variations over the orbital period . in order to investigate it",
    "further we extracted the pulsed and unpulsed spectra .",
    "the former was extracted for the orbital phase interval 0.270.43 , approximately centered on the orbital spikes , the data from the time interval of the missing pulse were also included in this spectrum .",
    "the unpulsed spectrum consists the rest of the data .",
    "the count - rates of the pulsed and unpulsed spectra differ notably : 0.42 and 0.37 , respectively .",
    "the unpulsed spectrum can be well fitted with the three - temperature  model , giving @xmath9 with temperatures 0.64 , 1.45 and 13.7 kev ( we fixed the metal abundance at a value of 0.69 ) .",
    "even though the pulsed spectrum consists of only 1581 counts and suffers from their deficiency in the hardest ( @xmath108 kev ) and softest ( @xmath110.5 kev ) energies , it looks very similar to the unpulsed spectrum , yet it shows a notable flux excess in the 0.82.5 kev energy range .",
    "this spectrum was fitted with the same model in which we fixed the hardest  component temperature at the value determined for the unpulsed spectrum ( 13.7 kev ) .",
    "the fit gave @xmath12 with the same temperature for the softest  component ( 0.63 kev ) whereas the second  component has a higher temperature of 2.40 kev and a much larger normalization than for the unpulsed spectrum .",
    "the pulsed and unpulsed spectra together with the best fit model for the unpulsed spectrum and the residuals are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : xspec ] ( left panel ) .",
    "the swift averaged spectrum , when fitted with the same three - temperature  model , gives fit parameters very similar to those obtained for the chandra data .",
    "we notice , however , that this model was not able to reproduce the iron k@xmath1 emission line at 6.4 kev in the swift spectrum , a separate gaussian line ( ) was required .",
    "the fit gave @xmath12 with temperatures 0.52 , 1.63 and 12.3 kev .",
    "the averaged swift and chandra spectra with the best fit models are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : xspec ] ( right panel ) .",
    "the unabsorbed flux determined from the spectra in the 0.3 - 10 kev range was 4.34@xmath13 erg @xmath14 s@xmath15 during the swift observations , @xmath1640 per cent larger than during the chandra observation ( 3.22@xmath13 erg @xmath14 s@xmath15 ) .",
    "this ratio is also kept in shorter energy subranges along the x - ray spectrum as well as in the optical band .",
    "thus , despite the different states in which we found fs  aur  during the chandra and swift observations , the shape of its spectrum from optical to x - rays shows little variations .",
    "since the first detailed investigations , fs aur immediately attracted attention for having the very coherent , long periods ( lpp and lsp ) which exceed the orbital period . in order to explain such a discrepancy between the periods in fs  aur , @xcite proposed the ip scenario with a rapidly rotating magnetic wd precessing with the lsp .",
    "the period of precession depends on the star parameters such as mass , size , shape , and the dynamics of its interior . according to existing models @xcite , the precession period of a wd is proportional to the third power of the spin period . in a slowly rotating compact star ,",
    "the precession period is extremely long .",
    "however , in a rapidly rotating wd the precession period can explain observed long periodicities . in order to have the proposed precession period ,",
    "the wd in fs aur should be a fast rotator with the spin period of the order of 50 - 100 sec , according to calculations of @xcite .",
    "because of the magnetic nature of the wd , one could expect to observe a strong and stable modulation in the x - ray and optical light curves with such a period .",
    "this hypothesis has received an observation confirmation after our detection of the @xmath16100  s modulations in both the optical and x - ray data of fs  aur , even though the detected signal is rather weak , especially in x - rays . in this context , it is interesting to note that v455 and , another cataclysmic variable with many similar to fs  aur  properties @xcite , has also been proven to possess a rapidly rotating wd with the spin period of 67.6  s @xcite .",
    "similarly to fs  aur , the spin period of the wd in v455 and was found through extensive optical observations whereas the power at the spin frequency in x - rays is very low @xcite .",
    "this is slightly confusing but not really surprising .",
    "it was shown that if the magnetic and rotational axes of a wd are closely aligned , then spin modulations might be undetectable @xcite . nevertheless , if such a wd in addition experiences a precession then another modulation with the precession period may appear .",
    "other specific observational manifestations of precession are still to be understood .",
    "we guess , however , that as the primary reason for the temporal and spectral variability of the ips with the spin period is the variable geometrical factor due to the sweeping around of the x - ray beam , a binary system with a precessing wd should share most of the observational properties with ordinary ips and even might be virtually indistinguishable from them . on the whole , the closer the magnetic and rotational axes of a precessing wd are aligned , the more similarities such a binary will share with a classical ip .",
    "the difference will only be apparent in the time scales of the variability : instead of modulations with the _ spin and orbital - spin - beat _ periods we expect to observe modulations with the _ precession and orbital - precession - beat _ periods .",
    "we believe that fs aur is such a case .    before discussing the nature of fs aur in more detail",
    ", we briefly summarize the key observational properties of fs aur which are relevant in this context :    1 .",
    "it has been proven that fs aur exhibits a stable modulation in the optical and x - ray light curves with a period that is different from an orbital one ( lsp ) .",
    "the emission lines also vary with this period .",
    "the optical light curve is normally dominated by variations at the beat period between the op and the lsp : @xmath17 .",
    "aur  is a rather hard x - ray source with low - energy absorption and the presence of fe k@xmath1 emission .",
    "@xcite reported the detection of a non - zero circular polarization in fs  aur .",
    "as seen , these properties of fs  aur  satisfies most of patterson s conditions for being an ip @xcite .",
    "they conflict only in the sense that in the canonical model of the ips a period of optical and x - ray modulations due to the wd rotation is expected to be shorter than the op .",
    "nevertheless , as it was shown before , this restriction can be overtaken if a role of the wd rotation is played by the precession .",
    "one additional x - ray property of the ips which was proposed by @xcite and which is also fulfilled by fs  aur   the presence of strong fe k@xmath1 emission .",
    "furthermore , the small amplitude outbursts observed in fs  aur , are another good argument in favor of a truncated accretion disk in the system , i.e. the ip nature of fs  aur .",
    "we now proceed to compare other properties of fs aur such as the phasing of the optical and x - ray lsp pulses and their energy dependence with other well - studied ips .",
    "the spin period modulation is unambiguously detected in all the confirmed ips as this is the defining characteristic of the class .",
    "this modulation is a direct consequence of the magnetically confined accretion flow onto the magnetic poles of the wd whose magnetic field is of sufficient strength to disrupt the accretion disc and to control the flow before it reaches the surface of the star . at some distance from the wd surface ,",
    "the infalling material undergoes a strong shock , releasing x - rays as it cools by thermal bremsstrahlung and compton cooling processes .",
    "thus , it is widely supposed that the x - ray modulation reflects this physical process most clearly whereas the optical range is heavily affected by x - ray reprocessing .",
    "this , however , is not always the case .",
    "for example , dqher  the prototype of the subclass of ips  is characterized by a very low x - ray flux and the strong spin modulation in the optical band .",
    "ips show a large variety of photometric and spectroscopic behaviour , both in x - rays and the optical range . in x - rays , for example , some ips show a single - peaked pulsation whereas others show a double - peaked pulsation .",
    "there is also observed a strong dependence on the photon energy ( usually , increasing modulation depth with decreasing energy ) .",
    "the optical spin modulation , if observed , is usually correlated with the x - ray one .",
    "however , the optical variability is caused by the reprocessing of variable x - ray irradiation that often resulted in significant sideband modulations .",
    "these sidebands and spin modulations can also have a strong wavelength - dependence .",
    "furthermore , these modulations are observed not only in continuum but also in the hydrogen and heii  emission lines . in",
    "many ips the spin component , appearing in the far wings of the emission lines , has maximum blueshift near optical and/or x - ray pulse maximum @xcite .    despite such complex behaviour",
    ", our understanding of ips is now quite good .",
    "most observable properties can be understood within the context of the widely accepted accretion curtain model @xcite . in this model",
    ", the material flows towards the magnetic poles of the wd in an arc - shaped curtain , and the largest x - ray and optical flux is seen when the upper pole is on the far side of the wd .",
    "it is not our intention to assess the strong and weak aspects of the model .",
    "instead , we aim to compare the key , most reliable observable properties of fs  aur  with those of the `` ironclad '' ips .",
    "first of all , we pay attention to the optical brightness and colour variability with a spin period , and a mutual phasing between them and the emission line spin variability .",
    "unfortunately , such a comparison is not a simple task . despite numerous multicolour observations of ips conducted and published in the past , there are very few reports on the analysis of the colour spin variability .",
    "however , our primary result  the detection of the lsp variability through photometric observations  was obtained by means of the analysis of colour indices . besides this variability",
    "being most confidently seen specifically in ( @xmath0 ) , our analysis also revealed another interesting property of the fs  aur  colour time - series  its power spectrum is exclusively dominated by a peak at the lsp with no power at the lpp and the op .",
    "we intended to test if the ips show similar power spectra with the strongest peak at the spin frequency .    in order to conduct such an analysis",
    ", we requested our colleagues worldwide to provide us with their multicolour light curves .",
    "we were generously given the data of eight ironclad and confirmed ips which show prominent spin modulations in the optical wavelengths alongside with different sidebands .",
    "most of these observations were already published : pq  gem @xcite , v405  aur @xcite , ny  lup and igrj15096649 @xcite , dq  her @xcite , ex  hya @xcite , fo  aqr @xcite .",
    "observations of ao  psc were obtained by e.  l. robinson and were extracted , alongside with chiappetti et al.s data of fo  aqr , from the collection of light curves of albert bruch @xcite .",
    "an analysis of all these data was performed in a similar fashion .",
    "we calculated the power spectra of the light and different colour curves , and then compared the light and colour curves folded with the spin period .",
    "because of space limitations , we do not show any plots here but only give our conclusion on this study .",
    "we found that in _ all _ the ips the power spectrum of the ( @xmath0 ) or similar colour curve is dominated by a peak at the spin period with little power at the beats , in spite of the fact that in several systems the sideband variability is more prominent in the optical light curve than the spin modulation .",
    "as for energy dependence and phasing of the spin pulses in different wavelengths , they have not appeared to be very consistent even for these ironclad ips .    in conclusion , and as an example of the most extreme case , we present more detailed analysis of v1223  sgr . this well - known ip is known to show very strong sideband modulations , whereas the spin pulsation is not seen in the optical . in this sense ,",
    "the behaviour of v1223  sgr is similar to fs  aur .",
    "our own observations were used for the analysis .",
    "finally , we also performed an analysis of multicolour observations of v455  and which shows solid evidence for being an ip @xcite .",
    "v1223  sgr has an orbital period of 3.37  h and a spin period of 745.6  s. the sinusoidal spin modulation dominates in x - rays and shows the increasing depth with decreasing energy . in the optical , however , the object pulsates at the 794.4  s sideband and no pulsations have been found at the spin period .    during 29 nights of september - october 2011 and 25 nights of may - june 2012 we conducted time - resolved observations of v1223 sgr using the same telescope and equipment as for the observations of fs  aur .",
    "the observations of 2011 were done in unfiltered light and with an integration time of 45 sec .",
    "most observations of 2012 were made with the @xmath18 and @xmath19 filters and with exposure times of 70 and 30 sec respectively .",
    "a detailed analysis of these data will be discussed elsewhere , here we concentrate on the variability with the spin period .",
    "the 794.4  s sideband modulation was very strong in both filters .",
    "the power spectrum of the light curve is dominated by peaks at the sideband and orbital frequencies ( 108.76 and 7.13 day@xmath15 respectively ) with no ( in @xmath20 ) or negligibly little power ( in @xmath18 ) at the expected spin frequency @xmath21 day@xmath15 ( fig .  [ fig : v1223_sgr ] , left panel ) .",
    "the latter modulation has not become apparent even in the pre - whitened light curve .",
    "however , in the power spectrum of the ( @xmath0 ) colour - index curve a peak emerges at the exact spin frequency .",
    "folding the ( @xmath0 ) data over the spin period results in the nearly sinusoidal modulation with the amplitude of @xmath22 mag ( fig .",
    "[ fig : v1223_sgr ] , right panel ) .",
    "the folded @xmath18 and @xmath20 data also show a sign of pulsations even though the latter are very weak in power spectra .",
    "it is interesting that the character of such variability is very different from what we detected in other ips . during around a half of the spin period the @xmath18 and @xmath20 fluxes",
    "keep a nearly constant level , and then it increases in @xmath18 and decreases in @xmath20 .",
    "no pulsation is seen in the folded unfiltered light curve .",
    "v455 and ( hs 2331 + 3905 ) is a high - inclination eclipsing dwarf nova .",
    "the system shares many similar properties with fs aur and is known to show a variety of periodic photometric and spectroscopic variabilities .",
    "@xcite reported that v455 and exhibits two very different spectral periods , a short one of 81 min at the center and a longer one of 210 min in the wings of its emission lines .",
    "eclipses in the system s light curve allowed an accurate and unambiguous determination of the orbital period of 81.08 minutes .",
    "however , the strongest peak in the photometric periodogram was located at twice the orbital frequency of 35.52 d@xmath15 ( 40.54 min ) , while no power was detected at the orbital frequency of 17.76 d@xmath15 even though a strong signal was found at 17.27 d@xmath15 ( 83.38 min ) and the one - day aliases ( see fig .  6 in @xcite ) . @xcite",
    "interpreted it by a double - hump structure of the orbital light curve and the presence of permanent superhumps . besides the orbital variability , v455  and exhibits a number of other periodic photometric variations and is proved to contain a magnetic wd .",
    "the 67.6  s spin period of the wd defines this object as an ip @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , similarly to fs aur , the lsp ( @xmath163.5  h ) appearing in the far wings of the emission lines , is not seen in the light curve of v455  and .",
    "also , by analogy with fs  aur , one can expect to observe the lpp  photometric modulations with the beat period between the two spectral ones ( @xmath1611 d@xmath15 ) .",
    "@xcite did not mention any variability with such a period , even though their periodogram showed a marginal peak in this frequency region ( fig .",
    "6 in their paper ) .    for analysis of the longer - term variability , during 11 nights of september 2011 we conducted @xmath23 time - resolved observations of v455  and using the same telescope and equipment as for the observations of fs aur .",
    "a sample @xmath24 light curve and ( @xmath25 ) , ( @xmath26 ) , ( @xmath27 ) and ( @xmath0 ) colour curves are shown in figure  [ fig : v455 ] ( left panel ) while the lomb - scargle power spectra of the @xmath28 light curves and the ( @xmath27 ) colour - index curve are shown in the right panel of figure  [ fig : v455 ] ( from bottom to top of the figure ) .    the light curves and the ( @xmath25 ) and ( @xmath26 ) colour curves display periodic variability with a period of @xmath1680 min .",
    "when folded with the orbital period , the double - hump structure of the light curves is clearly seen ( not shown ) .",
    "the individual power spectra look similar to that presented by @xcite even though they are different in some details : a ) the strengths of the strongest peaks at 35.52 d@xmath15 and around the orbital frequency are now compatible ( the 35.52 d@xmath15 is stronger in the @xmath18 band and weaker in @xmath19 ) ; b ) the `` superhump '' peaks at 17.27 and 16.27 d@xmath15 disappeared but new ones appeared at 16.93 and 17.1 d@xmath15 and 17.93 and 18.1 d@xmath15 .",
    "however , the behavior of the colour indices ( @xmath0 ) and ( @xmath27 ) suggests a longer variability timescale .",
    "the corresponding periodograms show excess of power in the low - frequency range with the strongest peaks at 6.81 d@xmath15 and 6.62 d@xmath15 ( 211 min and 218 min ) ( better seen in ( @xmath27 ) , fig .",
    "[ fig : v455 ] ) .",
    "these frequencies are close to the spectroscopic period found from the radial velocity variations of the balmer emission line wings @xcite .",
    "we have to note that the power spectrum around these signals is complex , suggesting a lower degree of coherence .",
    "this is not much of a surprise as despite the many similarities between v455  and and fs  aur , there is a fundamental difference between them . in the case of fs  aur ,",
    "the long periods are very strict . for v455  and where only the lsp",
    "is reported , this period fluctuates on time scales of a few days @xcite .",
    "the above analysis of multicolour optical light curves of well - known ips has revealed a common property of the corresponding colour power spectra  the latter are dominated by a peak at the spin frequency even though the sideband variability is more prominent in the light curve than the spin modulation .",
    "the example of v1223  sgr is the most notable , in which the ( @xmath0 ) power spectrum indicates the presence of the spin pulsation which is not seen in the optical light curve at all .",
    "this closely resembles the optical variability of fs  aur  and v455  and with the lsp .",
    "this effect can be naturally explained as a consequence of reprocessing of spin - modulated x - rays by asymmetric features in the system that are locked in the rotating binary frame , such as the secondary star or the bright spot @xcite .",
    "the photometric modulation appears due to the variation in the visible area of the reprocessing site which has a weak energy dependence . as a result ,",
    "the sideband modulations are not present in colour data .",
    "knowledge of the orbital , spin and sideband ephemerides allows the question of the site of reprocessing in the system to be examined . using fs  aur s ephemerides ( [ ephemerisop ] ) , ( [ ephemerislpp ] ) and ( [ ephemerislsp ] )",
    ", one can see that the lsp and lpp modulations have coincident maxima at orbital phase @xmath29 .",
    "this corresponds to superior conjunction of the secondary and is likely due to heating of the inner hemisphere of the donor star that is quite typical among the ips .",
    "nevertheless , there is a not very common characteristic of fs  aur  which is worth to be mentioned : the relative phasing of the photometric and radial velocity modulations with the lsp .",
    "in contrast to most ips , in which the spin component appearing in emission line wings has maximum blueshift near optical pulse maximum ",
    "phase 0 @xcite , in fs  aur  the lsp component has maximum blueshift near phase 0.75 .",
    "the latter results in counter - clockwise rotation of the corresponding doppler map ( fig .",
    "[ fig : dopmap ] ) though otherwise it closely resembles those of ao  psc and fo  aqr @xcite .",
    "the location of the emission area at 3 oclock  in the ip tomograms and the occurring of maximum blueshift at phase 0 agree well with the accretion curtain model of ips @xcite .",
    "the different spectral phasing of the lsp modulation in fs  aur  indicates that instead of seeing a radiating gas flowing down the magnetic field lines on to the surface of the wd , as follows from the accretion curtain model , in fs  aur  we observe a segment of the innermost region of the accretion disc moving with the local keplerian velocity .",
    "this disagreement should not be considered a surprise if we admit that in fact the lsp is not the rotational period of the wd but the precession one . in this case the radial velocity variations with the short spin period must be smeared out during the lsp . however , a spin - averaged x - ray beam from fs  aur s wd would illuminate different segments of the accretion disc when sweeping around with the precession ( lsp ) period .",
    "these segments can reprocess high - energy emission into the optical and should have the keplerian velocities .",
    "thus the velocity modulation with the lsp would be phased with zero velocity at optical maximum , as it is observed in fs  aur  ( fig .",
    "[ fig : model ] ) .",
    "the lsp - folded trailed spectra and the corresponding doppler map ( fig .",
    "[ fig : dopmap ] ) allow the location of this emission source to be estimated .",
    "the brightest part of the emission lsp - component reaches @xmath16800 kms@xmath15 , with a possible extension up to @xmath161100 kms@xmath15(we note , however , that this higher velocity diffuse emission part of the tomogram might be an artefact of the reconstruction ) . assuming keplerian motion and adopting the system parameters given in @xcite",
    ", it implies a radial distance from the wd of @xmath30 cm ( @xmath168 wd radii ) , with a possible extension inwards to about @xmath31 cm ( @xmath164 wd radii ) .",
    "we suppose that this is a characteristic distance at which the accretion disc of fs  aur  is disrupted by the magnetic field of the wd .",
    "it is somewhat shorter than supposed by the standard picture of ips ( @xmath1610 wd radii ) . on the other hand , ips with shorter spin periods",
    "have smaller magnetospheres in which case the accretion discs are disrupted closer to the wd .",
    "we have presented a comprehensive study of fs  aur  based on two extensive sets of optical photometric observations and three x - ray data sets .",
    "in addition to the formerly observed lpp and op variations , these optical observations revealed , for the first time in photometric data , the presence of the lsp modulation , previously seen only spectroscopically .",
    "the lsp which is the presumed precession period of the wd , is best seen in the ( @xmath0 ) colour index derived from the 2010 - 2011 multicolour observations but it was also detected in the pre - whitened light curve from the 2004 - 2005 observational campaign .",
    "the analysis of x - ray observations made with chandra and swift , also revealed the existence of both the op , lpp and lsp modulations .",
    "we compared most reliable observable properties of the lsp pulsation such as energy dependence and phasing of the lsp pulses in different wavelengths , with those of the spin modulation of ten ironclad and confirmed ips .",
    "we have found strong indications that the lsp signal detected in fs  aur s x - rays and optical photometry and spectroscopy is similar in nature to the spin modulation of the ips .",
    "we conclude that even though some of observational properties of fs  aur  are not very common , they are by no means unique to ips .",
    "the most serious discrepancy is the relative phasing of the photometric and radial velocity modulations with the lsp . in fs",
    "aur  the lsp spectral component has zero velocity at optical maximum , and it supports the precessional origin of the lsp variability ( figure  [ fig : model ] ) .    in conclusion , we would like to mention a methodological aspect of this work . there is a long lasting discussion about a necessity of multicolour observations of cvs rather than unfiltered or single - filtered ones .",
    "indeed , most time - resolved observations of variable stars nowadays are taken with relatively small telescopes , and the use of several filters is often considered as losing photons and wasting time .",
    "however , our analysis of multicolour observations of ips has shown that time - series analysis of colour indices appears to be a powerful technique for revealing hidden variabilities and shedding light on their nature .",
    "for example , the ( @xmath0 ) power spectrum of v1223 sgr indicates the presence in the data of the spin pulsation which is not seen in the optical light curve at all . also , the analysis of the colour indices of v455 and revealed the presence in the photometrical data of the lsp pulsation which",
    ", similarly to fs  aur , was previously observed only spectroscopically .",
    "our analysis has shown that the use of colour indices of bands more distant in the spectrum , e.g. ( @xmath0 ) , can be more efficient .",
    "we note that the ( @xmath0 ) colour index is a more sensitive estimator of the effective stellar temperatures with respect to the widely used ( @xmath25 ) @xcite .",
    "the authors thank seathrn  tuairisg , caoilfhionn lane , gennady valyavin , byeong - cheol lee and the staff of the bohyunsan optical astronomy observatory ( boao ) for assisting with the observations in 2004 , mike rice and the staff at new mexico skies for their invaluable support , george b. and elma sjoberg who cared so much , and natalia neustroeva for help in the preparation of this paper .",
    "sz and gt acknowledge papiit grants in-109209/in-103912 and conacyt grants 34521-e ; 151858 for resources provided towards this research .",
    "our research was based on x - ray observations by nasa missions chandra and swift which we acknowledge .",
    "we thank neil gehrels for approving the target of opportunity observation with swift and the swift team for executing the observation .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained through the high energy astrophysics science archive research center online service , provided by the nasa / goddard space flight center .",
    "we acknowledge photometric data kindly provided to us by our colleagues kunegunda belle , albert bruch , oliver butters , jerry foote , boris gnsicke , coel hellier , keith horne , seppo katajainen , andrew j. norton , stephen potter , edward l. robinson .",
    "we are thankful to the anonymous referee for careful reading of the manuscript .",
    "99 allan a. , horne k. , hellier c. , mukai k. , barwig h. , bennie p.  j. , hilditch r.  w. , 1996 , mnras , 279 , 1345 araujo - betancor s. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 430 , 629 arnaud k.  a. , 1996 , in astronomical data analysis software and systems v , eds .",
    "jacoby g. and barnes j. , asp conf .",
    "series volume 101 , 17 belle k.  e. , howell s.  b. , mukai k. , szkody p. , nishikida k. , ciardi d.  r. , fried r.  e. , oliver j.  p. , 2005",
    ", aj , 129 , 1985 berry r. , burnell j. , 2005 , the handbook of astronomical image processing , 2nd ed . ,",
    "richmond , va : willmann - bell bloemen s. , steeghs d. , de smedt k. , vos j. , gnsicke b.  t. , marsh t.  r. , rodriguez - gil p. , 2013",
    ", mnras , 429 , 3433 butters o.  w. , norton a.  j. , mukai k. , barlow e.  j. , 2009 , a&a , 498 , l17 chavez c.  e. , tovmassian g. , aguilar l.  a. , zharikov s. , henden a.  a. , 2012 , a&a , 538 , a122 chiappetti l. , et al . , 1989 , apj , 342 , 493 fritz t. , bruch a. , 1998 , a&a , 332 , 586 gnsicke b.  t. , 2007 , 15th european workshop on white dwarfs , 372 , 597 gehrels n. , et al . , 2004 , apj , 611 , 1005 hassall b.  j.  m. , et al . , 1981 , mnras , 197 , 275 hellier c. , 1996 , in evans a. , wood j. h. , eds , astrophysics and space science library , vol .",
    "208 , iau colloq . 158 : cataclysmic variables and related objects .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 143",
    "hellier c. , 1999 , apj , 519 , 324 hellier c. , cropper m. , mason k.  o. , 1991 , mnras , 248 , 233 hellier c. , ramseyer t.  f. , jablonski f.  j. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , l25 henden a.  a. , honeycutt r.  k. , 1997 , pasp , 109 , 441 hoffmeister c. , 1949 , veroff .",
    "sonneberg 1 , 3 honeycutt r.  k. , schlegel e.  m. , kaitchuck r.  h. , 1987 , apjs , 65 , 451 king a.  r. , lasota j .-",
    ", 1991 , apj , 378 , 674 leins m. , soffel m.  h. , lay w. , ruder h. , 1992 , a&a , 261 , 658 marsh t.  r. , horne k. , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 269 misselt k.  a. , 1996 , pasp , 108 , 146 natali f. , natali g. , pompei e. , pedichini f. , 1994 , a&a , 289 , 756 neustroev v.  v. , 2002 , a&a , 382 , 974 neustroev v.  v. , zharikov s. , tovmassian g. , shearer a. , 2005 , mnras , 362 , 1472 neustroev v. , et al . , 2012 , iau symposium , 282 , 79 norton a.  j. , watson m.  g. , king a.  r. , 1991 , lecture notes in physics , 385 , 155 norton a.  j. , wynn g.  a. , somerscales r.  v. , 2004 , apj , 614 , 349 potter s.  b. , romero - colmenero e. , kotze m. , zietsman e. , butters o.  w. , pekeur n. , buckley d.  a.  h. , 2012 , mnras , 420 , 2596 patterson j. , 1994 , pasp , 106 , 209 patterson j. , 2011 , bulletin of the american astronomical society , # 103.03 patterson j. , price c.  m. , 1981 , apj , 243 , l83 poole t.  s. , et al . , 2008 , mnras , 383 , 627 ramsay g. , wheatley p.  j. , norton a.  j. , hakala p. , baskill d. , 2008 , mnras , 387 , 1157 roberts d.  h. , lehar j. , dreher j.  w. , 1987 , aj , 93 , 968 rosen s.  r. , mason k.  o. , cordova f.  a. , 1988 , mnras , 231 , 549 thorstensen j.r . , patterson j.o .",
    ", shambrook a. , thomas g. , 1996 , pasp , 108 , 73 tovmassian g. , et al . , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 725 stockman , h.  s. , schmidt , g.  d. , berriman , g. , et al .",
    "1992 , apj , 401 , 628 tovmassian g.  h. , zharikov s.  v. , neustroev v.  v. , 2007 , apj , 655 , 466 tovmassian g. , zharikov s. , neustroev v. , 2012 , in the golden age of cataclysmic variables and related objects , f. giovannelli & l. sabau - graziati ( eds . )",
    "83 , 713 warner b. , 1986 , mnras , 219 , 347 warner , b. , 1995 , cataclysmic variable stars ( cambridge astrophysics ser .",
    "28 ; cambridge : cambridge univ .",
    "press ) warner b. , wickramasinghe d.  t. , 1991 , mnras , 248 , 370"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> fs  aur  is famous for a variety of uncommon and puzzling periodic photometric and spectroscopic variabilities . </S>",
    "<S> it was previously proposed that the precession of a fast - rotating magnetically accreting white dwarf can successfully explain these phenomena . </S>",
    "<S> we present a study of fs  aur  based on two extensive sets of optical photometric observations and three x - ray data sets in which we intended to verify whether the observational properties of the long period modulations observed in fs  aurand v455 and are similar in appearance to the spin modulation in ordinary ips . </S>",
    "<S> these new optical observations have revealed , for the first time in photometric data , the variability with the presumed precession period of the white dwarf , previously seen only spectroscopically . </S>",
    "<S> we also found that the modulations with the precession and orbital periods are evident in x - ray data . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the observed properties of fs aur closely resemble those of other intermediate polars , thus confirming this cataclysmic variable as a member of the class .    </S>",
    "<S> our analysis of multicolour observations of intermediate polars has shown that time - series analysis of colour indices appears to be a powerful technique for revealing hidden variabilities and shedding light on their nature . </S>",
    "<S> we have found that the ( @xmath0 ) power spectrum of v1223  sgr indicates the presence in the data of the spin pulsation which is not seen in the optical light curve at all . </S>",
    "<S> also , the analysis of the colour indices of v455  and revealed the presence of the photometric variations which , similarly to fs  aur , was previously observed only spectroscopically .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    binaries : close  novae , cataclysmic variables  x - rays : stars  stars : white dwarfs  stars : individual ( fs aurigae , v455 andromedae , v1223 sagittarii ) </S>"
  ]
}