{
  "article_text": [
    "the coalescing of compact binaries and their interactions with accretion discs are important issues in astrophysics .",
    "the recent review about the black hole accretion disc theory given by @xcite explains how the interaction of accretion disc with a black hole reveals predictions of emission , signature of strong gravity , black hole mass , and spin .",
    "the merging of bh - bh , bh - ns or ns - ns , or accreting a hot matter rotating around compact objects may cause a torus to be formed which might be responsible for oscillation and emission of bh - torus systems .",
    "the hot torus around the black hole is thought to be a mechanism gather the particles and form a jet .",
    "the internal shocks inside the jets can create high energy particles and lead to the emission of gamma - ray photons@xcite .",
    "it is important to understand the dynamics , formation , and stability properties of a torus to show how the gamma rays are formed .",
    "the rapid destruction of an accretion disc due to high accretion rate , which is larger than the eddington rate , was first suggested by @xcite .",
    "they pointed out that the cusp located in the equipotential surfaces of the effective potential moves outwards into the torus .",
    "this physical change in the black hole - torus system can increase the mass accretion rate and mass of the black hole , and it causes a runaway instability .",
    "the runaway instability was firstly discovered by @xcite using a pseudo - newtonian potential and studied in relativity by @xcite .",
    "the comprehensive study of relativistic thick disk which has a non - constant angular momentum around the black holes has been done by @xcite .",
    "they found that the disk is dramatically stabilized in case of very small values of angular momentum slopes .",
    "the non - constant angular momentum disk displays more unstable behavior and it causes to grow the mode of the runaway instability more fast .",
    "the instability of accreting torus orbiting around the non - rotating black hole was studied by @xcite , and their numerical simulations showed that axisymmetric oscillation of torus was exhibited without the appearance of the runaway instability .",
    "it is also indicated that the self gravity of the torus does not play an important role for the occurring of the instability in a few dynamical time steps .",
    "recently , @xcite , for the first time , demonstrated the runaway instability for a constant distribution of the specific angular momentum by using the fully self - consistent general relativistic hydrodynamical evolution .",
    "they have confirmed that the runaway instability occurred in a few dynamical times .",
    "the papaloizou - pringle instability represents the instability of the torus around the compact objects .",
    "the origin of the papaloizou - pringle instability is mostly related with the interaction between the propagation of waves across the co - rotation radius @xcite .",
    "the waves inside the co - rotation radius carry negative energy while the waves outside of this radius carry positive energy .",
    "when the waves inside the co - rotation radius lose energy to the waves outside the co - rotation radius , the instability occurs @xcite .",
    "the papaloizou - pringle instability on the torus was studied by a number of authors in literature .",
    "the number of physical parameters play a dominant role emerging from the hydrodynamical instabilities occurred as a result of interaction between perturbation and the black hole - torus system .",
    "three - dimensional space parameter of the torus size , the torus angular momentum and angular momentum of the black hole was studied by @xcite .",
    "the growth of the papaloizou - pringle instability was observed for a range of initial configuration of the black hole - torus system .",
    "the effect of magnetic field on the papaloizou - pringle instability in the torus was revealed by @xcite using the various magnetic structures and strengths .",
    "they have found that the toroidal magnetic fields affect the papaloizou - pringle instability .",
    "the self - gravity of the relativistic torus orbiting around the black hole may be thought as a central engine of grbs .",
    "so it is important to understand its dynamic , formation and stability properties .",
    "the instabilities of the self - gravitating torus were studied by @xcite using the general relativistic hydrodynamics code and they showed that the papaloizou - pringle instability grows for a self - gravitating relativistic torus around the black hole .    the interacting matter with a black hole or falling matter into a black hole is a source of gravitation radiation .",
    "perturbation of the torus by matter modifies the fluid around the black hole and shock may be formed .",
    "the rotating shock can cause a matter to have a non - linear behavior and its energy heats the gas .",
    "so the electromagnetic flares would be produced and these flayers continue to occur for a long time @xcite . interacting",
    "particles with shock waves in the equatorial plane produce a continues emission ranging from ultra - viole to x - rays if they freely drive away from the black hole - torus system @xcite .",
    "it is known that the central region of the black hole - disc system , which produces the gamma ray burst ( grb ) , is not significantly bigger than the size of the black hole .",
    "so the torus is a possible physical mechanism to produce grb and gravitational waves which are used to identify the nature of the inner region that may be observed from grb system @xcite .",
    "the small perturbations on the torus create a hydrodynamical instability which is responsible for gravitational waves .",
    "its contribution to the gravitational wave background was estimated by @xcite . the gravitational wave radiation from the center of grb , which consists of a black hole and torus ,",
    "was studied by @xcite .",
    "it was found that the gravitational wave is a natural phenomenon in the wobbling system .",
    "oscillation properties of the black hole - torus system have been studied for numbers of astrophysical systems .",
    "investigating the oscillating system can allow us to expose disco - seismic classes which are dominant in relativistic geometrically thin disc .",
    "some numerical studies revealed the oscillatory modes of the perturbed torus @xcite .",
    "oscillation properties of the pressure - supported torus were also examined by @xcite .",
    "they had found a strong correlation between intrinsic frequency of the torus , which is also called the relative frequency and the frequency of oscillation computed from data that is dumped from the mean wind , and extrinsic frequency , which is a frequency recorded by an observer moving with the flow , shown in observed light curve power spectrum .",
    "the analysis of quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) was motivated by observed data coming from the galactic center , low - mass @xmath1 ray binaries @xcite and high frequency phenomena , testing the strong gravity @xcite in the innermost region of accretion disc around the black hole .",
    "the observations with x - ray telescopes have uncovered the existing of qpos of matter around the black holes @xcite .",
    "the qpos can be used to test the strong gravity and the properties of the black hole since they are originated close to the black hole @xcite . in order to understand these physical properties ,",
    "the perturbed pressure - supported torus is examined in a close - binary system . in this paper ,",
    "our main goal is to study the instability of a stable torus on the equatorial plane based on perturbation , which is coming from the outer boundary of computational domain . in order to do that we solve hydrodynamical equations on a curved fixed space - time for the non - rotating and rotating black holes at the equatorial plane .",
    "thus , we investigate the effects of perturbation and thermodynamical parameters onto the tori s instability .",
    "it is astrophysically possible that a stable black hole - torus system might be perturbed by a blob of gas like observed in @xmath2 .",
    "we have perturbed the torus in a different way from the those used in @xcite in which it was performed by applying a perturbation to the radial velocity of the torus and @xcite in which three different types of perturbations , such as the perturbation of the radial velocity , a small variation of the density of the torus and a linear perturbation of the density and radial velocity , were used .    in this work ,",
    "we study the effect of perturbation onto the torus - black hole system by solving the hydrodynamical equations on a fixed background space - time .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : in section [ formulation of relativistic hydrodynamics ] , we briefly explain the formulation , numerical setup , boundary and initial condition and introduce the initial setup of the relativistic torus .",
    "the numerical results are described in [ numerical results ] .",
    "the outcomes of interaction of the torus - black hole system with matter as a result of perturbation coming from the outer boundary and qpos due to oscillation of the torus are presented finally , section [ conclusion ] concludes our findings . throughout the paper ,",
    "we use geometrized unit , @xmath3 and space - time signature @xmath4 .",
    "we consider a non - self gravitating a torus with an equation of state of a perfect fluid in a hydrostatics equilibrium around the non - rotating and rotating black holes . in order to model the instability of the torus due to perturbation , we have solved the hydrodynamical equations on a curved fixed space - time using the equation of state of a perfect fluid .",
    "the hydrodynamical equations are    @xmath5    where @xmath6 is a stress - energy tensor for a perfect fluid and @xmath7 is a current density . to preserve and use the conservative properties of hydrodynamical equations , eq.[eq.1 ]",
    "is written in a conservative form using the @xmath8 formalism , and we have @xcite    @xmath9    where @xmath10 is a conserved variable and , @xmath11 and @xmath12 are fluxes in radial and angular direction at equatorial plane , respectively .",
    "these quantities depend on fluid and thermodynamical variables which are written explicitly in detail in @xcite .",
    "@xmath13 represents the source term which depends on space - time metric @xmath14 , christoffel symbol @xmath15 , lapse function @xmath16 , determinant of three metric @xmath17 and stress - energy tensor @xmath18 .",
    "the conserved variables and fluxes also depend on the velocity of fluid and lorenz factor",
    ". the covariant components of three - velocity @xmath19 can be defined in terms of four - velocity @xmath20 as @xmath21 and lorenz factor @xmath22 .",
    "the explicit representation of hydrodynamical equations on a curved fixed background space - time and their numerical solutions at equatorial plane are given in @xcite .",
    "we have solved the hydrodynamics ( grh ) equations at the equatorial plane to model the perturbed torus around the black hole .",
    "the code used in this paper , which carries out the numerical simulation , was explained in detail by @xcite , which gives the solutions of the grh equations using marquina method with muscl left and right states .",
    "marquina method with muscl scheme guarantees higher order accuracy and gives better solution at discontinuities mostly seen close to the black hole .",
    "the pressure of the gas is computed by using the standard @xmath23 law equation of state for a perfect fluid which defines how the pressure changes with the rest - mass density and internal energy of the gas , @xmath24 with @xmath25 . after setting up the stable torus with a constant specific angular momentum inside the region , @xmath26",
    ", we have to also define the vacuum , the region outside of the @xmath26 at where all the variables set to some negligible values .",
    "we have used the low density atmosphere , @xmath27 , outside of the torus in the computational domain .",
    "the other variables of atmosphere are @xmath28 , @xmath29 and @xmath30 .",
    "the numerical evolution of torus showed that the dynamic of steady - state torus was unaffected by the presence of the given atmosphere .",
    "the kerr metric in boyer - lindquist coordinates is used to set up the black hole at the center of computational domain using an uniformly spaced grid in @xmath31 and @xmath32 directions .",
    "the @xmath31 goes from @xmath33 to @xmath34 for non - rotating , and @xmath35 to @xmath34 for rotating black holes while @xmath32 varies between @xmath36 and @xmath37 .",
    "typically , we use @xmath38 @xmath39 @xmath40 @xmath41 @xmath42 @xmath39 @xmath43 zones in radial and angular directions at the equatorial plane .",
    "the boundaries must have been correctly resolved to avoid unwanted oscillations .",
    "so we set up an outflow boundary condition at physical boundaries of computation domain in radial direction .",
    "all the variables are filled with values using zeroth - order extrapolation .",
    "while the velocity of matter , @xmath44 , must be less than zero at close to the black hole , it should be bigger than zero at the outer boundary of computation domain .",
    "the positive radial velocity at the outer boundary lets the gas to fall out from computational domain .",
    "so the unwanted oscillations which may arise at the outer boundary can not propagate into the computational domain .",
    "the periodic boundary condition is used in angular direction .",
    "the analytic representation of the non - self - gravitating relativistic torus for a test fluid was first examined by @xcite .",
    "they found a sharp cusp for marginally stable accreting disc which was located at an equatorial plane .",
    "later , the torus with an equation of state of a perfect fluid was discussed in detail in @xcite , numerically .",
    "the matter of torus is rotating at a circular orbit with non - geodesic flow between @xmath45 and @xmath46 , and the polytropic equation of state , @xmath47 , is used to build an initial torus in hydrodynamical equilibrium with the values of variables given in table [ table : initial models1 ] .",
    "using the @xmath48 , it mimics a degenerate relativistic electron gas .",
    "the significant internal pressure in the torus can balance the centrifugal and gravitational forces to maintain the system in hydrodynamical equilibrium .",
    "some of the astrophysical systems , which have a torus type structure , may be formed as a consequence of the merger of two black holes , two neutron stars , their mixed combination or form in the core collapse of the massive stars .",
    "these phenomena suggest that the torus might be in non - equilibrium state after it is formed . in order to understand the physical phenomena of a non - stable black hole torus system and perturbation of the torus by a matter which is coming from the outer boundary of computational domain",
    ", we build the initial conditions for a non - self gravitating perfect - fluid torus orbiting around a black hole using the formulations given by @xcite that assumes to be a non - geodesic motion of the flow .",
    "we have considered different initial conditions and perturbations given in table [ table : initial models1 ] .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we have performed the numerical simulation of the perturbed accreted torus around the black hole and uncovered the oscillation properties to compute qpos . instead of giving a perturbation to the radial velocity or to the density of the stable torus studied by different authors in literature , the matter is sent from the outer boundary toward the torus - black hole system to perturb it .",
    "we have initially considered the different sizes of the stable tori and torus - to - hole mass ratios to expose oscillations of the tori , and computed the fundamental modes and their overtones which results from the excitation of frequencies due to perturbation .",
    "we have confirmed that the torus around the black hole might have a quasi - periodic oscillation only if we choose a suitable initial data for a stable accretion torus .",
    "there are a number of different physical parameters which may affect the oscillation properties of the torus .",
    "it is seen from our numerical simulations that the size of torus and its initial radius affect the frequencies of oscillating torus and their overtones .",
    "the size of torus and its rest - mass density also influence the time of onset of the instability and the power of oscillations and , this oscillation creates radiation of hotter photons .",
    "the similar conclusion has been also confirmed by @xcite .",
    "the oscillation and mass losing rate of the perturbed torus strongly depend on the mach number of perturbing matter .",
    "upon the given appropriate parameters of perturbation , the subsonic or mildly supersonic flow produces the pressure - supported oscillating torus around the black hole and the amplitude of oscillation gradually decreases while the mach number of perturbation increases . for the most of the models given in table [ table : initial models1 ] , we have found that the rest - mass density of the torus substantially decreases due to the papaloizou - pringle instability which is developed as a consequence of interaction between the propagation of waves across the co - rotation radius .",
    "the mode powers of @xmath0 and @xmath49 grow as a function of time .",
    "it is depicted that the modes grow significantly for torus . on the other hand ,",
    "a torus which has a bigger inner radius and size , develops a new inner radius and cusp location after a perturbation . during this progress",
    ", a papaloizou - pringle instability is developed .",
    "later , the black hole - torus system reaches a new quasi - steady state and does not present a papaloizou - pringle instability .",
    "thus , the inner radius , the specific angular momentum of torus , size of the torus , and mach number and density of the perturbation play a critical role in the onset of the papaloizou - pringle instability .",
    "our studies also indicate that qpos are common phenomena on the disc around the black holes .",
    "if the accretion disc or torus have a quasi - periodic behavior , it emits continuous radiation during the computation .",
    "the amplitude of oscillation is excited by nonlinear physical phenomena .",
    "it has been explained in terms of the excitation of pressure gradients on the torus and it is called @xmath50 mode .",
    "it is shown that the power law distribution of oscillating stable torus includes a fundamental frequency at @xmath51 and their number of overtones , @xmath52 , @xmath53 , and @xmath54 that they can determine the ratios @xmath55 .",
    "these frequencies are observed at any radial and angular directions of the torus .",
    "the computed qpo frequencies are almost the same as the ones given by @xcite even though they apply a perturbation to the radial velocity or to the density of the stable torus in order to have an oscillation .",
    "the mode called as p is also the same in both simulations . we have also confirmed that the fundamental qpo frequencies and their overtones for a rotating black hole are much higher than the non - rotating case due to strong gravity and location of the inner radius of the accreted torus . the strong gravity plays a dominant role in the high frequency modulation of observed x - ray flux in the binary system @xcite .",
    "it is consistent with the computation from our simulations seen in table [ table : qpos ] .",
    "finally , we have performed the numerical simulation using @xmath56 code on the equatorial plane .",
    "clearly , to investigate the effects of forces in the vertical direction on the torus instability that may play an important role on the dynamics of the whole system , @xmath57 numerical simulations are required .",
    "the mode coupling in the vertical direction is likely to affect the instability of a perturbed torus - black hole system .",
    "therefore , we plan to model the same perturbed system by using @xmath57 code in the future .",
    "we would like to thank the anonymous referee for constructive comments on the original version of the manuscript .",
    "the numerical calculations were performed at the national center for high performance computing of turkey ( uybhm ) under grant number 10022007 .",
    "abramowicz , m. a. & fragile , p. c. 2013 , living rev .",
    "relativity , 16 , arxiv:1104.5499 .",
    "abramowicz , m. a. , calvani , m. & nobili , l. 1983 , nature , 302 , 597 - 599 .",
    "abramowicz , m. a. , & kluzniak , w. 2001 , a&a , 374 , l19-l20 .",
    "abramowicz , m. a. , jaroszynski , m. & sikora , m. 1978 , a&a , 63 , 221 - 224 .",
    "blaes , o. m. , sramkova , e. , abramowicz , m. a. , kluzniak , w. & torkelsson , u. 2007 , apj , 665 , 642 - 653 .",
    "blaes , o. m. & glatzel w. 1986 , mnras , 220 , 253 .",
    "burkert , a. , schartmann , m. , alig , c. , gillessen , s. , genzel , r. , fritz , t. k. & eisenhauer , f. 2012 , apj , 750 , 58b .",
    "bursa , m. 2005 , astron.nachr .",
    "326 , 849 - 855 .",
    "bursa , m. , abramowicz , m. a. , karas , v. & kluzniak , w. 2004 , apj , 617 , l45-l48 .",
    "chen , w. & beloborodov , a. m. 2007 , apj , 657 , 383 .",
    "coward , d. m. , van putten , m. h. p. m. , & burman , r. , r. 2002 , apj , 580 , 1024 .",
    "daigne , f. & font , j. a. 2004 , mnras , 349 , 841 . de villiers , j .-",
    "p . & hawley , j. 2002 , apj , 577 , 866 .",
    "dnmez o. , zanotti , o. , & rezzolla , l. 2011 , mnras , 412 , 1659 .",
    "dnmez o. 2004 , astrophys .",
    ", 293 , 323 .",
    "donmez o. 2007 , mpla , 22 , 141 - 157 .",
    "font , j. a. & daigne , f. 2002 , mnras , 334 , 383 .",
    "font , j.a .",
    ", miller , m. , suen , w .- m . &",
    "tobias , m. 2000 , phys .",
    "d , 61 , 044011 .",
    "fu , w. & lai , d. 2009 , apj , 690 , 1386 .",
    "hawley j. f. 1991 , apj , 381 , 496 .",
    "kluzniak , w. & abramowicz , m. a. 2001 , astro - ph/0105057 .",
    "korobkin , o. , abdikamalov , e. , stergioulas , n. , schnetter , e. , zink , b. , rosswog , s. & ott , c. 2013 , mnras , 431 , 349 - 354 .",
    "kiuchi , k. , shibata , m. , montero , p. & font , j. , a. 2011 , physical review letters , 106 , 251102 lee , h. , k. 2004 , journal of korean physical society , 45 , 1746 .",
    "levinson , a. & blandford , r. 1996 , apj , 456l , 29l .",
    "mcclintock j. e. & remillard r. 2004 , in lewinw .",
    "h. g. , van der klis m. , eds , compact stellar x - ray sources .",
    "cambridge university press , cambridge .",
    "meszaros , p. 2006",
    "phys . , 69 , 2259 .",
    "montero , p. j. , font , j. a. & shibata , m. 2010 , prl , 104 , 191101 .",
    "montero , p. j. , zanotti , o. , font , j. a. & rezzolla , l 2007 , mnras , 378 , 1101 .",
    "moscibrodzka , m. , das , t. k. and czerny , b. 2006 , mnras , 370 , 219 .",
    "mukhopadhyay , b. 2009 , apj , 694 , 387 - 395 .",
    "mukhopadhyay , b. , bhattacharya , d. & sreekumar , p. 2012",
    ", ijmpd , 21 , 1250086 .",
    "nagar , a. , font , j. a. , zanotti , o. & de pietri , r. 2005 , prd , 72 , 024007 .",
    "papaloizou , j. c. m. & pringle , j. e. 1984 , mnras , 208 721 .",
    "papaloizou , j. c. m. & pringle , j. e. 1985 , mnras , 213 799 .",
    "rees m. j. & meszaros p. 1994 ,",
    "apjl , 430 , l93 .",
    "remillard , r. a. , morgan , e. h. , mcclintock , j. e. , bailyn , c. d. & orosz , j. a. 1999 , apj , 522 , 397 - 412 .",
    "rezzolla l , yoshida s and zanotti o 2003a , mnras , 344 , 978 .",
    "schnittman , j. d. & krolik , j. h. 2008 , 684 , 835 .",
    "schnittman , j & rezzolla , l. 2006 , apj , 637l , 113s .",
    "strohmayer , t. e. 2001 , apj , 552 , l49 .",
    "van der klis m 2004 , eprint arxiv : astro - ph/0410551 .",
    "fu , w. , & lai , d. 2011 , mnras , 410 , 1617 .",
    "yildiran , d. & dnmez o. 2010 , ijmpd , 19 , 2111 - 2133 .",
    "zanotti o , rezzolla l and font j a 2003 , mnras , 341 , 832 .",
    "zanotti , o. , font , j. a. , rezzolla , l. & montero , p. j. 2005 , mnras , 356 , 1371 .",
    "zanotti , o & rezzolla , l. 2003 msais , 1 , 192 .",
    "zurek , w. , h. & benz , w. 1986 , apj 308 , 123 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the numerical study of dynamical instability of a pressure - supported relativistic torus , rotating around the black hole with a constant specific angular momentum on a fixed space - time background , in case of perturbation by a matter coming from the outer boundary . </S>",
    "<S> two dimensional hydrodynamical equations are solved at equatorial plane using the hrscs to study the effect of perturbation on the stable systems . </S>",
    "<S> we have found that the perturbed torus creates an instability which causes the gas falling into the black hole in a certain dynamical time . </S>",
    "<S> all the models indicate an oscillating torus with certain frequency around their instant equilibrium . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamic of the accreted torus varies with the size of initial stable torus , black hole spin and other variables , such as mach number , sound speed , cusp location of the torus , etc . </S>",
    "<S> the mass accretion rate is slightly proportional to the torus - to - hole mass ratio in the black hole - torus system , but it strongly depends on the cusp location of the torus . </S>",
    "<S> the cusp located in the equipotential surfaces of the effective potential moves outwards into the torus . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamical change of the torus increases the mass accretion rate and triggers the papaloizou - pringle instability . </S>",
    "<S> it is also observed that the growth of the @xmath0 mode of the papaloizou - pringle instability occurs for a wide range of fluid and hydrodynamical parameters and a black hole spin . </S>",
    "<S> we have also computed the qpos from the oscillating relativistic torus . </S>",
    "<S> +    [ firstpage ]    general relativistic hydrodynamics : numerical relativity : black hole : torus : papaloizou - pringle instability : quasi - periodic oscillation </S>"
  ]
}