{
  "article_text": [
    "the importance of intermediate mass stars on the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) and super asymptotic giant branch ( super  agb ) as source of cosmic dust is currently a highly debated topic .",
    "recent chemical evolutionary models @xcite have shown that agb stars give important contributions to dust enrichment even at early cosmic epochs , when traditionally core - collapse supernovae ( ccsne ) have been proposed as the main source of dust @xcite .",
    "the recent detection of about @xmath20 of cold dust in the supernova 1987a by the herschel satellite @xcite confirms the results expected by theoretical models of dust condensation in supernova ejecta . yet",
    ", only a relatively small fraction of the newly formed dust , probably less than 20% , is able to survive the passage of the reverse shock and be injected in the surrounding interstellar medium ( ism ) , effectively contributing to dust enrichment of the host galaxy @xcite . indeed ,",
    "spitzer observations of young supernova remnants have provided unabiguous evidence of dust formation and survival in the ejecta , with typical masses in the range @xmath21 @xcite .",
    "these figures can be considered as an indication of the effective dust yields of massive stars .    at lower stellar masses ( @xmath22 )",
    "grain condensation occurs during the agb and super - agb phases and the resulting dust mass depends on the progenitor stellar mass and metallicity through complex processes which affect the chemical composition and physical conditions in the stellar atmospheres .",
    "previous investigations , based on synthetic stellar models , have provided grids of agb dust yields predicting dust masses in the range @xmath23 ( ferrarotti & gail 2006 ) . with the aim to make further progresses following the proper stellar evolutionary sequences , we have recently computed the dust masses released by stars with masses in the range @xmath24 and metallicities of @xmath25 and @xmath26 .",
    "we find that the both the total mass of dust released and its chemical composition are a strong function of the initial stellar mass and metallicity ( ventura et al .",
    "2012a , 2012b ) and that , in the most optimistic cases , the typical dust masses released by agb stars can reach up to @xmath27 . while the relative importance of agb stars and sn as sources of dust will ultimately depend on the star formation history and stellar initial mass function @xcite , in order to understand the contribution of agb stars in early cosmic dust enrichment we need to extend our previous models to lower initial metallicities .    in this paper , we calculate a new sequence of models with metallicity @xmath28 , evolved through the whole agb phase .",
    "our results imply that at these low initial metallicities , the production of dust is strongly suppressed , suggesting that in cosmic environments with metallicities @xmath29 dust enrichment is entirely dominated by supernovae .",
    "the thermal pulses ( tp ) phase is experienced by stars of intermediate mass ( @xmath30 ) , after helium is consumed in the core ( see e.g. @xcite for an exhaustive description of these phases ) .",
    "helium and hydrogen burning occur in two shells above the degenerate core .",
    "this evolutionary phase is commonly known as asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) . in the most massive models , whose core mass exceeds @xmath31 , carbon ignition occurs in an off  center , degenerate region .",
    "this carbon pulse favors the development of a convective flame , that moves inwards to reach the stellar center , leading to the formation of a core composed of oxygen and neon @xcite .",
    "these stars also experience a series of thermal pulses , during the so called super asymptotic giant branch evolution @xcite .",
    "the surface chemistry of these stars may be altered by two mechanisms : hot bottom burning ( hbb ) and third dredge  up ( tdu ) .",
    "hbb is active in massive agbs , and consists in the ignition of proton  capture nucleosynthesis at the bottom of the convective envelope ; it is activated when the temperature of this region reaches @xmath32 k. tdu consists in the inwards penetration of the envelope after each tp ; the bottom of the surface convection zone may reach regions processed by @xmath33 nucleosynthesis , enriched in carbon and oxygen .",
    "the modification of the surface chemistry produced by hbb and tdu are different .",
    "tdu is accompanied by the increase in the surface abundance of carbon , and , to a smaller extent , of oxygen .",
    "the effects of hbb reflect proton  capture nucleosynthesis , and thus depend on the temperature at which hbb occurs . for temperatures below @xmath34k",
    "the main effect is the production of nitrogen at the expenses of carbon , whereas at higher temperatures oxygen destruction also occurs .    due to the large mass loss rates experienced , and the cool temperatures in their expanded , low  density envelopes , the winds of agbs are a favorable site for dust production , via condensation of gas molecules into solid grains .",
    "the investigations by @xcite set the theoretical framework to model dust formation in expanding agb winds , and showed how the formation of carbonaceous species ( essentially solid carbon and sic ) and silicates ( olivine , pyroxene , quartz ) depends on the surface chemistry of agbs , particularly on the c / o ratio .",
    "these works are based on a synthetic description of the agb phase , where core mass , temperature at the bottom of the convective zone , extension of tdu , are all imposed a priori , based on the observational calibration .",
    "this approach has the clear advantage of allowing one to follow the whole agb evolution with small computational efforts ; the intrinsic limit of this description is that hbb can not be described self  consistently .    in our previous investigations",
    "( ventura et al .",
    "2012a , b , hereafter paper i and paper ii , respectively ) we presented new models where the agb evolution was calculated by means of the integration of the whole stellar structure .",
    "we also extended the calculations to the super  agb regime , ignored in previous works .",
    "our analysis showed that the kind of dust formed around agbs depends on the initial mass of the star : models with @xmath35 , whose surface chemistry is dominated by hbb , produce silicates , whereas their lower mass counterparts produce carbon  type dust .",
    "these investigations also showed an interesting trend with metallicity : in higher@xmath6 models the production of silicates is favored , not only by the larger amount of silicon available in the envelope , but also because the hbb experienced is weaker , thus inhibiting the possibility of surface oxygen destruction .    in what follows we",
    "further extend the model to lower initial metallicities and discuss the implications for the mass and composition of dust yields by intermediate mass stars .",
    "dust grains are assumed to form via condensation of gas molecules in the wind of agbs .",
    "the description of this process requires knowledge of the evolution of the main physical and chemical properties of the central object , and a model for the thermodynamical and chemical structure of the wind .",
    "we provide here a brief description of the stellar and wind modeling , addressing the interested reader to @xcite for a thorough presentation of the model .",
    "the stellar models presented in this work have an initial metallicity @xmath1 .",
    "the mixture is assumed to be @xmath2enhanced , with @xmath36=+0.4 $ ] .",
    "this corresponds to an iron content @xmath4=-2 $ ] .",
    "the evolutionary sequences were calculated by means of the aton stellar evolution code , in the version described in @xcite .",
    "the range of masses involved is limited to @xmath37 , because more massive objects undergo core  collapse sn type ii explosion , thus not experiencing any agb phase ] .",
    "the evolutionary models were followed from the early pre main sequence phase , until the phase where almost all the external envelope is consumed .",
    "models with masses below @xmath38 develop a degenerate helium core while ascending the red giant branch , and undergo the helium flash .",
    "the evolution of these models was thus re  started from the horizontal branch , from a post  flash stage , before the beginning of the quiescent core helium burning .",
    "the convective instability is modeled according to the full spectrum of turbulence ( hereinafter fst ) treatment by @xcite . in regions unstable to convection , mixing of chemicals and nuclear burning are coupled via a diffusion  like equation , following the scheme presented in @xcite .",
    "the overshoot of convective eddies within radiatively stable regions is described via an exponential decay of velocities from the formal border of convection ; this is determined via the classic schwarzschild criterium , stating that the zone of neutral stability , where buoyancy vanishes , corresponds to the condition @xmath39 ( where @xmath40 and @xmath41 are , respectively the logarithmic temperature gradients when the energy is entirely transported by radiation , or for an adiabatic transformation ) .",
    "the e  folding distance @xmath42 of the exponential decay of convective velocities is assumed to be @xmath43 , where @xmath44 is the pressure scale height , @xmath45 and @xmath46 is a measure of the extension of the overshoot region .",
    "following the calibration given in @xcite , we adopt @xmath47 in all the evolutionary phases preceding the thermal pulses phase .",
    "the possible extension of the extra mixing during the agb phase is still an open issue , largely debated in the literature @xcite . to limit the number of free parameters , here we only allow some extra mixing from the borders of the convective shell that forms during the thermal pulse , and discuss how the results obtained depend on the assumed value of @xmath46 .",
    "mass loss was modeled following the treatment by @xcite .",
    "the majority of the nuclear reaction rates were taken from the nacre compilation @xcite .",
    "the only exceptions are the @xmath33 cross sections @xcite , the rate of the @xmath48 reaction @xcite , and some proton  captures , not relevant for the present investigation .",
    "the scheme adopted to model the structure of the wind at a given phase during the agb evolution is the same as in paper i , based on the description given in the series of papers by @xcite .",
    "here we briefly recall the schematization adopted .",
    "the wind is assumed to expand isotropically from the stellar surface .",
    "the physical quantities characterizing the central star are luminosity ( @xmath49 ) , effective temperature ( @xmath50 ) , radius ( @xmath51 ) , mass ( @xmath52 ) , mass loss rate ( @xmath53 ) .    [ cols=\"<,<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      to test the possibility that silicates are formed at the metallicity investigated in this work we focus on @xmath54 ( eq .  [ eqgamma ] ) : the condition for the wind to be accelerated by radiation pressure is @xmath55 , which requires a minimum opacity , @xmath56 .",
    "-10pt    the most favorable conditions for the formation of silicates are found in the early super ",
    "agb phases of models with mass @xmath57 .",
    "the high luminosities reached by these stars ( see table  [ yields ] and the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fagb ] ) favour large mass loss rates , which , in turn , enhance the dust formation rate , owing to the increase in the density of the wind ( eq .  [ eqmloss ] ) . also , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fhbb ] , in these models the surface oxygen is never completely destroyed ; this allows the formation of water molecules , present in all the reactions occurring when the silicates are formed ( see table 1 ) .",
    "these conditions are not met during the evolution of smaller mass stars , whose luminosity is smaller , and that suffer a stronger reduction of the surface oxygen ( see fig .  [ fhbb ] ) .",
    "we focus on a model of @xmath58 , in the phase of maximum luminosity ( @xmath59 ) , when it has lost @xmath60 ( see right panel of fig .  [ fagb ] ) ; the surface temperature is 3700 k. substituting @xmath61 and @xmath59 in the expression given above we find @xmath62@xmath63/g . on the other hand , by using the optical constants for silicates by @xcite , in the unrealistic case that all the silicon is condensed into dust , we find @xmath64@xmath63/g , i.e. @xmath65 .",
    "this result , compared with those from our previous investigations , shows that @xmath66 is the threshold metallicity , below which no purely dust  driven silicate winds may occur .",
    "some little production of silicates is still possible in these conditions , but the predictions in this case are less reliable , because the results depend critically on the assumptions concerning the velocity with which the wind particles reach the condensation layer .      in analogy with the results for higher metallicities , in models with mass below @xmath67 dust formation",
    "depends on the extent of tdu .",
    "the excess of carbon with respect to oxygen allows formation of solid carbon and silicon carbide .",
    "this condition is reached after a few tps , provided that tdu is sufficiently deep to enrich in carbon the surface layers ( see right panel of fig .",
    "[ 25msun ] ) . in the previous phases ,",
    "as far as the c / o ratio is below unity , only silicate formation is possible .",
    "the percentage of silicon in the wind is however so low , that the rate of growth of the grains is very small , the maximum dimensions hardly reaching @xmath68 m . in agreement with the previous discussion , we find that the quantity of dust formed is far below the threshold needed to accelerate the wind .",
    "this is consistent with the analysis by @xcite , indicating that in the range of masses and luminosities typical of the low  mass regime investigated here a mimimum dimension of silicates grains of @xmath69 m is required to accelerate the wind .",
    "-50pt    table  [ tabdust ] reports the mass of solid carbon produced by agb models of different initial mass , calculated with @xmath70 .",
    "the same data are shown in fig .",
    "[ fmasscar ] .",
    "models with mass below @xmath71 become carbon stars only for @xmath72 .",
    "for a given @xmath46 , the mass of carbon dust produced increases with the mass of the star , because more massive models experience more mass loss and more thermal pulses , thus reaching higher carbon abundances .",
    "the trend in fig .",
    "[ fmasscar ] reflects the behavior of the carbon content in the gas ejected by agbs , shown in fig .",
    "the @xmath38 model is found to produce a smaller amount of carbon , which can be explained based on the discussion in previous sections , concerning the hbb ignition in this model .",
    "[ fmasscar ] shows that the mass of carbon dust produced becomes approximately independent of @xmath46 , for @xmath73 .",
    "the main reason for this behaviour is the rapid acceleration experienced by the wind when carbon dust is produced : the larger is the content of carbon dust , the larger is the acceleration of the wind , which prevents additional formation of dust .",
    "in addition , models more enriched in carbon are those experiencing the deepest tdu , thus evolving at smaller core masses : their luminosity , and consequently their mass loss rate , is smaller , such that the density of the gas in the wind is also reduced .",
    "-40pt    fig .",
    "[ facar ] shows the variation of the size of c and sic grains during the agb evolution of stars of initial mass @xmath74 , @xmath71 , @xmath38 ; the different lines indicate the @xmath46 adopted in the computations .",
    "the size of the sic grains is independent of @xmath46 , because the key element , si , is unaffected by tdu .",
    "owing to the scarcity of silicon available , the production of sic is modest , the size of sic grains being @xmath75 m . the amount of sic formed increases with mass , because more massive models experience a larger mass loss rate , that favours gas condensation .",
    "iron is scarcely produced in all models , as a consequence of the small iron content of the winds of agbs at these low metallicities .",
    "this result is consistent with previous investigations by @xcite and @xcite , indicating that the iron dust produced by agbs diminishes with decreasing metallicity .",
    "this picture could change at higher metallicities , as suggested by the analysis by @xcite , focused on dust production in stars belonging to the globular cluster 47tuc .",
    "the authors find that iron is the main component of the dust content surrounding the two brightest sources , suggesting a favourite channel for iron production compared to silicates .",
    "detailed models of low  mass stars at higher metallicities are required to be compared with these findings .",
    "the growth of carbon grains varies with @xmath46 , because the surface carbon enrichment changes according to the depth of tdu , as shown in fig .",
    "the grain size increases during the evolution , not only because more and more carbon is brought to the surface , but also because the luminosity , hence the mass loss rate , increases as the core grows in mass . while a minimum value of @xmath46 is required to allow tdu to operate efficiently , the results in terms of the size of carbon grains formed become insensitive to @xmath46 as far as a sufficient amount of carbon , @xmath76 , is present in the envelope .",
    "a calibration of @xmath46 is beyond the scopes of the present work .",
    "however , in the analysis of the carbon grain size formed , we may disregard the no  overshoot assumption , given the physical inconsistency , and the severe problems met when comparing the results with the observations of stars in the magellanic clouds @xcite . limiting our attention on the @xmath77 cases ,",
    "we conclude that the surroundings of low  mass , low ",
    "metallicity agbs are expected to host carbon grains , whose dimensions are in the range @xmath78 m @xmath79 m ( see fig .  [ facar ] ) .",
    "these results are approximately independent of the initial mass of the star .",
    "the reason for this is the rapid acceleration of the wind favoured by the condensation process ; the increase in the velocity favours a rapid decrease in the density of the gas , that inhibits further formation of dust . in fig .",
    "[ fvela ] we compare the structure of the wind of two models of @xmath71 , calculated with @xmath80 and @xmath81 .",
    "the figure refers to an evolutionary phase when the stars have lost @xmath60 , and the surface carbon abundances are @xmath82 ( @xmath80 ) and @xmath83 ( @xmath81 ) .",
    "the radial profiles of the grain size ( red ) and velocity ( blue ) are shown .",
    "solid tracks refer to the no  overshoot models , whereas dashed lines indicate the @xmath81 case .",
    "dust condensation begins at a distance of @xmath84 from the stellar center , and continues until the velocity of the wind reaches @xmath85km / sec .",
    "the acceleration of the wind is smaller in the @xmath80 case , which allows dust formation to occur in the expanding wind up to more external regions . as clearly evident in the internal panel of fig .",
    "[ fvela ] , showing in more details the dust  forming region ,",
    "this effects partly compensates the difference in the carbon available in the winds , reducing the gap between the size of the carbon grains formed .",
    "the optical properties of solid carbon , its ability to absorb radiation and accelerate the wind , make the description of the solid carbon growth only mildly dependent on the quantity of carbon in the stellar envelope , thus rendering more robust the results obtained , in terms of the dimension of the grains formed .",
    "the possibility of comparing these results with the observations is undermined by the scarcity of data of agb stars in metal poor environments .",
    "a promising field in this context is the increasing amount of available spectra of agbs in globular clusters , from which the species and the quantity of dust formed can be deduced .",
    "because masses evolving in globular clusters are surely below 1m@xmath18 , this approach offers the only opportunity to test our description at the lower end of the range of masses investigated , whereas no information can be obtained for models of higher mass .",
    "an example of these studies is the collection of spitzer data presented by @xcite , showing a positive trend with @xmath6 of the amount of dust formed in the circumstellar shells of agb stars .    while stars in the sample presented in @xcite are more metal rich than the models presented here , the two sources belonging to ngc 4372 , analyzed in @xcite , have a similar metallicity ( [ fe / h]@xmath86 ) , which offers the opportunity of a more detailed comparison .",
    "from the spectra , the authors argue that the two stars are oxygen  rich , and dusty .",
    "the luminosity of the two stars is slightly below the value found in the @xmath87m@xmath18 model presented here ( see table 2 ) , in agreement with the smaller mass ( @xmath88 ) expected to evolve in the agb of this cluster .",
    "fig.[fmasscar ] shows that some carbon  dust production is expected in these low ",
    "mass objects , provided that some extra mixing from the convective zones is adopted .",
    "this is however not in contrast with the fact that the two stars examined by @xcite are oxygen  rich , because even in case that a large extra mixing is used , the model achieve the c  star stage only in the lates evolutionary phases , while the surface remains oxygen  rich for most of the duration of the agb phase .",
    "-40pt      as discussed above , the quantity of silicon present in low metallicity agbs is so small to prevent the formation of silicates , if not in extremely small quantities . even in the super  agb regime , where the strong mass loss might favor the condensation process",
    ", the density of silicon in the wind is too small to allow dust production .",
    "our agb models experience stronger hbb than other literature results @xcite , and are thus those most favorable to the formation of silicates .",
    "this makes these results more general , allowing us to conclude that @xmath89 is the threshold limit in metallicity , below which no meaningful silicate formation occurs in the winds of agbs .",
    "the shortage of silicon in the wind also affects the formation of sic , whose production rate scales with the silicon density .",
    "-40pt    the comparison of the results obtained in the present investigations with those presented in paper i and paper ii allows us to infer how the mass and composition of dust produced by agbs change with metallicity .",
    "[ fmassmet ] shows the mass of dust produced by stars with masses in the range @xmath24 and metallicities @xmath7 ( paper i ) , @xmath90 ( paper ii ) , and @xmath91 ( present study ) .",
    "stars with mass above @xmath92 produce silicates , in quantities scaling with @xmath6 .",
    "mass stars produce mainly carbon dust , although some silicate formation occurs , in quantities increasing with metallicity , owing to the larger silicon available .",
    "as far as the c  star stage is reached , the carbon  dust formed exceeds by far the previous production of silicates , because of the large excess of carbon with respect to oxygen favoured by repeated tdu episodes . most of the mass of dust shown in fig .",
    "[ fmassmet ] , produced in the low  mass regime , is under the form of carbon  dust .",
    "the effect of metallicity on the carbon formed is not trivial , because the carbon dredged to the surface during the tdu is produced in the he  burning shell , and is thus independent of @xmath6 . in low@xmath6 models tdu is more efficient @xcite , thus their surface carbon is larger .",
    "this effect is compensated by the cooler surface temperatures at which higher@xmath6 models evolve : the dust  formation zone is closer to the stellar surface , thus the condensation process is more efficient . moving to smaller metallicities the range of masses involved in the solid carbon formation becomes progressively smaller , because the larger core masses favour hbb conditions for smaller and smaller initial masses .",
    "for masses @xmath93 , lower @xmath6 models produce more dust , because they reach earlier in their evolution the carbon star stage .",
    "the results shown in fig .  [ fmassmet ] indicate that while the production of silicates turns out to be extremely dependent on metallicity , the carbon  dust produced show only ( if any ) a modest dependence on @xmath6 , but the lower and upper limits of the masses involved .",
    "these findings are in agreement with the results presented by @xcite , showing that that the amount of amorphous carbon produced is fairly independent of metallicity , for carbon stars observed not only in the galaxy and in the magellanic clouds , but also in other galaxies of the local group .",
    "we plan to further extend these results to smaller metallicities , but the general pattern can be inferred from the results found here and from the properties of agb stars at extremely small @xmath6 . in the high  mass domain , silicate formation becomes harder with decreasing @xmath6 , because of the smaller amount of silicon available and the stronger hbb , which triggers the destruction of surface oxygen . for masses @xmath94 hbb",
    "is expected to occur down to @xmath95 @xcite , which prevents the formation of carbon  type dust .    at @xmath6 below @xmath96 ,",
    "mass agbs evolve differently @xcite .",
    "the ignition of he  burning , both in the core or in a shell , is accompanied by the development of an extended convective zone , which , owing to the small height of the entropy barrier , penetrates the h  rich region .",
    "the following inwards penetration of the external envelope allows mixing of processed material in the interior with the surface , which is thus enriched in cno elements .",
    "the composition of the winds of these stars depends on which mechanism is more efficient in changing the surface chemistry .",
    "stars with mass above @xmath97 experience both hbb and tdu ; although dual shell flash is also likely to occur , the change in the surface chemistry is mostly determined by the combined effects of tdu and hbb : the former favors an enrichment in the surface carbon after each tp , the latter destroys part of this carbon and produces nitrogen . as a result , the average carbon mass fraction barely reaches @xmath98 , thus preventing the formation of meaningful quantities of carbon grains .",
    "therefore , we can expect that when @xmath99 , dust production is limited to low  mass stars , whose evolution is not influenced by hbb and whose surface carbon may survive to proton fusion .      before addressing the implications of the results presented",
    ", we discuss the robustness of these findings .",
    "the treatment of convection and mass loss are known to have a significant impact on agb modelling , both on the chemical and physical sides @xcite . however , at odds with previous explorations based on higher metallicities @xcite , dust production in the high  mass domain is not sensitive to these uncertainties at these low z s : the amount of silicon in the wind is so scarce , that no meaningful silicate ",
    "type dust is expected , far below the quantities needed to accelerate the wind .    the choice of the convection modelling influences the upper limit of the masses producing carbon  type dust : if a less efficient description of convection was adopted , the threshold limit ( in mass ) to experience hbb would shift @xmath100 upwards , which would extend the range of masses involved in carbon production up to @xmath92 .",
    "the description of mass loss could potentially influence the physical evolution of low  mass stars : the mass loss rate determines the number of thermal pulses experienced , thus the extent of the surface carbon enrichment .",
    "yet , we do not expect a strong sensitivity of the amount of carbon  dust formed to the mass loss description for the following reasons : a ) a higher carbon enrichment favours a rapid cooling and expansion of the outer layers of the stars , with the consequent increase in the mass loss rate experienced @xcite , which prevents many more tdu episodes to occur ; b ) as discussed previously , the size of the carbon grains formed are not strongly sensitive to the amount of carbon present in the wind , owing to the high opacity of carbon grains , that favour a strong acceleration of the winds as soon as they begin to form .    concerning the wind modeling ,",
    "the robustness of the present results must be confronted with a more complete description , which accounts for the presence of shock waves .",
    "dust formation would be favoured by the shock , because compression of the gas lifted upwards would increase the densities of the key species , and dense parcels of gas would be pushed to cool regions distant from the central star , where dust is expected to be formed in great quantities .    in oxygen  rich environments , a further effect due to",
    "the presence of shock waves might be the deviation from chemical equilibrium in the gas phase , with the consequence that carbon is not entirely locked into co molecules , part of it remaining available for carbon  dust formation .",
    "this scenario could lead to the simultaneous formation of carbon and silicates grains in the circumstellar shells of oxygen  rich agbs , and would provide an alternative mechanism for a dust driven mass loss for m stars @xcite .",
    "we calculate the dust formed around agb and super  agb stars of metallicity @xmath1 , the lowest metallicity for which dust production by low and intermediate mass stars has been considered so far .",
    "this study complements previous investigations that were limited to metallicities @xmath7 and @xmath90 .",
    "stellar evolution is followed by means of a full integration of the equations of stellar structure , allowing to describe self ",
    "consistently the hot bottom burning phenomenon .",
    "we find that for stars with initial metallicity @xmath101 :    * in the high  mass domain , with @xmath94 , strong hbb prevents the formation of carbon stars .",
    "the scarcity of silicon in the wind and the strong destruction of the surface oxygen in the most massive models lead to a negligible formation of silicates , not sufficient to accelerate the wind via radiation pressure on dust grains .",
    "* dust production is limited to the formation of solid carbon grains around low  mass stars , with initial mass @xmath102 .",
    "the results depend on the way tdu is modelled , but as far as a minimum abundance of carbon of the order of @xmath103 is reached in the surface layers , the results are approximately independent of the extent of tdu .",
    "this is a consequence of the balance between larger carbon abundances reached by models experiencing the deepest dredge  up and their lower core masses , that lead to smaller mass loss rate .",
    "* under these conditions , the carbon dust produced is @xmath104 with grains radii in the range @xmath78 m @xmath79 m. * compared to higher metallicity models , low ",
    "mass stars with @xmath105 produce more dust because they reach more easily the carbon  star stage .",
    "conversely , for @xmath106 higher @xmath6 models produce dust more efficiently , owing to their cooler surface layers . * these results can be extrapolated to even more metal  poor agbs .",
    "no dust is expected in the high  mass domain , dominated by hbb , because of the scarcity of silicon available . at low z s hbb",
    "is present even in low ",
    "mass stars , below @xmath71 .",
    "although it is not sufficiently strong to burn oxygen , still it destroys part of the carbon accumulated by tdu .",
    "the scarcity of carbon in the envelope prevents the formation of carbon grains , if not in small quantities .",
    "these results have interesting implications for the contribution of agb stars to dust enrichment .",
    "the grid of stellar models that we have presented in paper i , ii and in the present study , suggest that for @xmath107 , the metallicity of the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) , agb stars can contribute to dust enrichment of the ism on relatively short time - scales , @xmath108  myr , comparable to the evolutionary time of a @xmath109 star . according to our results ,",
    "the enrichment is initially limited to silicate dust , and carbon dust is released on longer timescales , @xmath110  myr , comparable to the evolutionary time of a @xmath16 star . for initial metallicities in the range @xmath111 or @xmath112 , the production of silicates by the most massive agb stars is strongly suppressed and low - mass stars can mostly contribute to carbon dust enrichment when @xmath110  myr .",
    "it is important to stress that these results and the dependence of the predicted agb and super  agb dust yields on the initial stellar metallicity reflect the complex evolution of these stars and can not be appreciated when synthetic stellar models are adopted . indeed",
    ", our results partly contradict previous claims that agb stars can always contribute to carbon dust enrichment , independently of their initial mass and metallicity , at least in the metallicity range , @xmath113 ( ferrarotti & gail 2006 ; zhukovska et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "more importantly , our study suggests that the dust yields computed for stars with initial metallicity of @xmath114 can not be extrapolated to lower metallicity as the contribution of agb stars to dust enrichment can be safely neglected when the metallicity of the stars is @xmath115 ) .",
    "hence , our results imply that at these low metallicities , supernovae are left as the only viable stellar dust sources ( todini & ferrara 2001 ; nozawa et al .",
    "2003 , 2007 ; bianchi & schneider 2007 ; cherchneff & dwek 2010 ) .",
    "the authors are indebted to paola marigo , for the computation of the low  temperature opacities in the c  star regime , by means of the aesopus tool .",
    "rs acknowledges that the research leading to these results has received funding from the european research council under the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp/2007 - 2013 ) / erc grant agreement n. 306476 .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank the referee , ian mcdonald , for the careful reading of the manuscript , and for the many comments and suggestions , that helped improving the quality of this work .",
    "99 angulo c. , arnould m. , rayet m. , et al . , 1999 , nucl.phys . a , 656 , 3 bianchi s. , schneider r. , 2007 , mnras , 378 , 973 blcker t. , 1995 , a&a , 297 , 727 blcker t. , schenberner d. , 1991 , a&a , 244 , l43 boothroyd a.  i. , sachmann , i.  j. 1988 , apj , 328 , 653 campbell s.  w. , lattanzio j.  c. , 2008 , a&a , 490 , 769 canuto v.m.c . , mazzitelli i. , 1991 , apj , 370 , 295 cloutman l.d .",
    ", eoll j.g . , 1976 ,",
    "apj , 206 , 548 dantona f. , mazzitelli t. , 1996 , apj , 470 , 1093 dwek , e. , galliano , f. & jones , o. , 2007 , apj , 662 , 927d ferrarotti a.d . , gail h.p . , 2001 , a&a , 371 , 133 ferrarotti a.d . , gail h.p .",
    ", 2002 , a&a , 382 , 256 ferrarotti a.d .",
    ", gail h.p . , 2006 , a&a , 553 , 576 fynbo h.o.u . , et al , 2005 , nature , 433 , 136 garcia - berro e. , ritossa c. , iben i.j .",
    ", 1997 , apj , 485 , 765 herwig f. , 2005 , ar&a , 43 , 435 herwig f. , austin s.m .",
    ", 2004 , apj , 613 , l73 izzard r.  g. , tout c.  a. , karakas a.  i. , pols o.  r. , 2004 , mnras , 350 , 407 herwig f. 2005 , ara&a , 43 , 435 hfner s. 2008 , a&a , 491 , l1 hfner s. , andersen a.  c. 2007 , a&a , 465 , l39 karakas a.i .",
    "2010 , mnras , 403 , 1413 karakas a.i . , 2011 , in asp conf .",
    ", why galaxies care about agb stars ii : shining examples and common inhabitants",
    ". proceedings of a conference held at university campus , viena , austria , 16 - 20 august 2010 .",
    "edited by f. kerschbaum , t. lebzelter , and r.f . wing .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , 2011 .",
    ", 455 , p.3 kunz r. , fey m. , jaeger m. , mayer a. , hammer j.w . , staudt g. , harissopulos s. , paradellis t. , 2002 , apj , 567 , 643 lau h.  h.  b. , stancliffe r.  j. , tout c.  a. 2009 , mnras , 396 , 1046 marigo p.",
    "a&a , 387 , 507 matsuura , m. , dwek , e. , meixner , m. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , sci , 333 , 1258 m marigo p. , girardi l. , bressan a. , 1999 , a&a , 344 , 123 mcdonald i. , boyer m.  l. , van loon j.  t. , zijlstra a.  a. 2011 , apj , 730 , 71 mcdonald i. , zijlstra a.  a. , rajoelimanana a.  f. , johnson c.  i. 2013 , mnras , 429 , l65 nozawa , t. ; kozasa , t. , umeda , h. , maeda , k. , nomoto , k. , 2003 , apj , 598 , 785n nozawa t. , kozasa t. , habe a. , dwek e. , umeda h. , tominaga n. , maeda k. , nomoto k. , 2007 , apj , 666 , 955 ossenkopf v. , henning th . , mathis j.  s. , 1992 , a&a , 261 , 567 renzini a. , voli m. , 1981 , a&a , 94 , 175 rho , j. , reach , w. t. , tappe , a. , hwang , u. , slavin , j. d. , kozasa , t. , dunne , l. , 2009 , apj , 700 , 579r ritossa c. , garcia berro e. , iben i. , 1996 , apj , 460 , 489 ritossa c. , garcia berro e. , iben i. , 1999 , apj , 515 , 381 schwarzschild m. , harm r. , 1965 , apj , 142 , 855 schwarzschild m. , harm r. , 1967 , a&a , 145 , 486 siess l. , 2007 , a&a , 476 , 893 siess l. , 2010 , a&a , 512 , a10 sloan g.  c. , matsunaga n. , matsuura m. , zijlstra a.  a. , kraemer k.  e. , wood p.  r. , nieusma j. , bernard  salas j. , devost d. , houck j.  r. 2010 , apj , 719 , 1274 sloan g.  c. , matsuura m. , lagadec e. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 752 , 140 stancliffe r.  j. , lattanzio j.  c. 2011 , in asp conf .",
    ", why galaxies care about agb stars ii : shining examples and common inhabitants .",
    "proceedings of a conference held at university campus , viena , austria , 16 - 20 august 2010 . edited by f. kerschbaum , t. lebzelter , and r.f . wing .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , 2011 .",
    ", 455 , p.29 todini p. , ferrara a. , 2001 , mnras , 325 , 726 valiante r. , schneider r. , bianchi s. , andersen a. , anja c. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , 1661 valiante r. , schneider r. , salvadori s. , bianchi s. , 2011 , mnras , 416 , 1916 vassiliadis e. , wood p.r . , 1993 , apj , 413 , 641 ventura p. , carini r. , dantona f. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 3865 ventura p. , dantona f. , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 279 ventura p. , dantona f. , 2005 , a&a , 439 , 1075 ventura p. , dantona f. , 2011 , mnras , 410 , 2760 ventura p. , di criscienzo m. , schneider r. , carini r. , valiante r. , dantona f. , gallerani s. , maiolino r. , tornamb a. , 2012 , mnras , 420 , 1442 ventura p. , di criscienzo m. , schneider r. , carini r. , valiante r. , dantona f. , gallerani s. , maiolino r. , tornamb a. , 2012 , mnras , 424 , 2345 ventura p. , marigo p. , 2009 ,",
    "mnras , 399 , l54 ventura p. , marigo p. , 2010 ,",
    "mnras , 408 , 2476 ventura p. , dantona f. , mazzitelli i. , 2000 , a&a , 363 , 605 ventura p. , zeppieri a. , mazzitelli i. , dantona f. , 1998 , a&a , 334 , 953 zhukovska s. , gail h.  p. , trieloff m. , 2008 , a&a , 479 , 453"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new models for the evolution of stars with mass in the range @xmath0 , followed from the pre  </S>",
    "<S> main  sequence through the asymptotic giant branch phase , until most of their envelope is lost via stellar winds . </S>",
    "<S> the metallicity adopted is @xmath1 ( which , with an @xmath2enhancement of @xmath3 , corresponds to @xmath4=-2 $ ] ) . </S>",
    "<S> dust formation is described by following the growth of dust grains of various types as the wind expands from the stellar surface .    </S>",
    "<S> models with mass @xmath5 experience hot bottom burning , thus maintaining the surface c / o below unity . unlike higher @xmath6 models , the scarcity of silicon available in the envelope prevents the formation of silicates in meaningful quantities , sufficient to trigger the acceleration of the wind via radiation pressure on the dust grains formed . </S>",
    "<S> no silicate formation occurs below a threshold metallicity of @xmath7 .    </S>",
    "<S> low  mass stars , with @xmath8 become carbon stars , forming solid carbon dust in their surroundings . </S>",
    "<S> the total dust mass formed depends on the uncertain extent of the inwards penetration of the convective envelope during the third dredge  up episodes following the thermal pulses . </S>",
    "<S> however , provided that a minimum abundance of carbon of @xmath9 is reached in the envelope , the results turn out to be fairly independent of the parameters used . </S>",
    "<S> carbon grains have sizes @xmath10 @xmath11 @xmath12 m and the total amount of dust formed ( increasing with the mass of the star ) is @xmath13 @xmath14 .    </S>",
    "<S> our results imply that agb stars with @xmath1 can only contribute to carbon dust enrichment of the interstellar medium on relatively long timescales , @xmath15  myr , comparable to the evolutionary time of a @xmath16 star . at lower metallicities the scarcity of silicon available and the presence of hot bottom burning even in m@xmath17 m@xmath18 , prevents the formation of silicate and carbon grains . </S>",
    "<S> we extrapolate our conclusion to more metal  poor environments , and deduce that at @xmath19 dust enrichment is mostly due to metal condensation in supernova ejecta .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : abundances  stars : agb and post - agb . </S>",
    "<S> ism : abundances , dust </S>"
  ]
}