{
  "article_text": [
    "the solar magnetic cycle is without a doubt the main driver behind changes in the heliospheric environment ( schwenn 2006 ) , violent activity that shapes the earth s magnetosphere ( pulkkinen 2007 ) , and @xmath0 of the sun s radiative output variability ( domingo et al .",
    "2009 )  having the potential of disrupting communications , satellites , and power distribution systems ; as well as being potentially hazardous to passengers traveling in high - altitude polar routes and astronauts in space . because of this , there has been a continuous effort to develop accurate solar cycle predictions ( with aims at predicting the long - term evolution of space weather ) .",
    "cycle predictions are typically classified into three categories : extrapolation methods , which use the mathematical properties of the sunspot data series to predict future levels of activity ; precursor methods , which use different measurable quantities as a proxy to estimate the subsequent cycle s amplitude ; and model - based predictions which use the assimilation of data into models of the solar cycle to make predictions ( for a review on the different types of prediction see for example petrovay 2010 , and pesnell 2012 ) .",
    "as opposed to extrapolation and precursor methods ( which have been around for nearly 50 years ) , model - based predictions made their first debut at the end of solar cycle 23 .",
    "there were three different model - based predictions for cycle 24 : two predictions based on mean - field kinematic dynamos ( dikpati et al .",
    "2006 ; choudhuri et al .",
    "2007 ) , and a prediction using a low - mode model with variable magnetic helicity which assimilates data using an ensemble kalman filter ( kitiashvili & kosovichev 2008 ) .",
    "the application of mean - field kinematic dynamos to solar cycle predictions has attracted a lot of attention because , in spite of using similar models , dynamo - based predictions turned out quite different : dikpati et al .",
    "( 2006 ) predicted a stronger cycle 24 than cycle 23 ( @xmath1 ) , whereas choudhuri et al .",
    "( 2007 ) predicted a weaker cycle 24 than cycle 23 ( @xmath2 ) .",
    "nevertheless , although similar in nature , the differences between these two models are subtle but significant . in this work we focus on two of them :    1 .   the quantities used to make cycle predictions ( sunspot area vs.  dipolar moment ) , 2 .   the relative importance between diffusive and advective transport of the solar magnetic fields ( which sets the memory of the solar dynamo ) .",
    "one of the main obstacles preventing us from reaching consensus regarding these issues is our inability to observe the solar magnetic field inside the convection zone  leaving surface observations as our only window into the inner workings of the dynamo . to compound the problem ,",
    "systematic magnetic field measurements are only available since the dawn of the space age ( spanning only 4 cycles ) making long - term magnetic proxies necessary .    [",
    "cols=\"^ \" , ]",
    "in a recent theoretical study of the dynamo basis of precursor predictions , charbonneau & barlet ( 2011 ) found that the polar field has precursor value ( i.e.  it is well correlated with the next cycle s amplitude ) only when there is a connection between the surface and interior layers .",
    "the correlation we find between polar flux at minimum and the amplitude of the next cycle demonstrates the need for such a connection between the surface magnetic field and the bottom of the convection zone .",
    "although high - resolution observations of the polar field show concentrated patches of magnetic field strong enough to be buoyant ( shiota et al .",
    "2012 ) , instead of a diffuse large - scale unipolar field , our results suggest that the total polar magnetic flux can still be seen as the surface manifestation of low - order moments in the multi - pole expansion of the solar magnetic field .",
    "perhaps , rather than direct subduction of polar magnetic fields , flux - transport mechanisms act on the roots of polar flux - tubes , pinning and stretching them across the bottom of the convection zone to form a large - scale poloidal field from which toroidal field is inducted .",
    "the correlations we find between the toroidal and poloidal proxies ( figures [ fig_pol_tor ] & [ fig_tor_pol]-c & d ) represent strong observational evidence in favor of the bl mechanism as the main source of poloidal field in the sun  by linking together the determination of polar fields by active region emergence and decay , and its subsequent shearing by differential rotation to set the amplitude of the next cycle .",
    "together they support the current solar cycle logic where the two components of the solar magnetic field ( toroidal and poloidal ) generate each other sequentially ( nicely illustrated in charbonneau 2010 ) .",
    "this has important consequences from the point of view of cycle prediction since it links the entire cycle causality to observable quantities in the photosphere .",
    "in particular , our results substantiate proposed precursor methods based on the polar magnetic field at solar minimum ( by extending their applicability to the last century ) and suggests that they will be the most successful predictions once we pass solar maximum .",
    "taking advantage of a century of poloidal and toroidal field proxies we analyzed two of the main differences between the dynamo - based predictions of dikpati et al .",
    "( 2006 ) and choudhuri et al .",
    "( 2007 ) from an observational point of view . in the case of data",
    "assimilation we find that sunspot area is not well correlated with the amplitude of the next cycle , unless it is multiplied by area - weighted average tilt ( see fig .",
    "[ fig_tor_pol ] ) .",
    "this suggests that tilt , which is a crucial component of the babcock - leighton mechanism , needs to be used ( together with sunspot area or active region flux ) in order to obtain more accurate model - based predictions .",
    "in the case of solar cycle memory we find observations to be consistent with a short term memory ( also found by solanki et al .",
    "this result is only naturally consistent with diffusion - dominated dynamos , or dynamos with significant transport by turbulent pumping ( as proposed by guerrero & de gouveia dal pino , 2008 ) .",
    "however , a purely advection - dominated dynamo driven by a randomly fluctuating meridional flow may be able to reduce cycle memory in accordance with observations .",
    "a detailed study of cycle memory in advection - dominated dynamos is necessary in order to address this discrepancy .",
    "we want to thank piet martens and an anonymous referee for useful discussions and suggestions .",
    "this research is supported by the nasa living with a star jack eddy postdoctoral fellowship program , administered by the ucar visiting scientist programs .",
    "andrs muoz - jaramillo is very grateful to david kieda for his support and sponsorship at the university of utah .",
    "e.  deluca was supported by contract sp02h1701r from lockheed martin to sao .",
    ", p.  h. , bogart , r.  s. , bush , r.  i. , hoeksema , j.  t. , kosovichev , a.  g. , schou , j. , rosenberg , w. , springer , l. , tarbell , t.  d. , title , a. , wolfson , c.  j. , zayer , i. , & mdi engineering team .",
    "1995 , , 162 , 129"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the solar cycle and its associated magnetic activity are the main drivers behind changes in the interplanetary environment and the earth s upper atmosphere ( commonly referred to as space weather ) . </S>",
    "<S> these changes have a direct impact on the lifetime of space - based assets and can create hazards to astronauts in space . in recent years there has been an effort to develop accurate solar cycle predictions ( with aims at predicting the long - term evolution of space weather ) , leading to nearly a hundred widely spread predictions for the amplitude of solar cycle 24 . a major contributor to the disagreement is the lack of direct long - term databases covering different components of the solar magnetic field ( toroidal vs.  poloidal ) . here </S>",
    "<S> we use sunspot area and polar faculae measurements spanning a full century ( as our toroidal and poloidal field proxies ) , to study solar cycle propagation , memory , and prediction . </S>",
    "<S> our results substantiate predictions based on the polar magnetic fields , whereas we find sunspot area to be uncorrelated to cycle amplitude unless multiplied by area - weighted average tilt . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that the joint assimilation of tilt and sunspot area is a better choice ( with aims to cycle prediction ) than sunspot area alone , and adds to the evidence in favor of active region emergence and decay as the main mechanism of poloidal field generation ( i.e. the babcock - leighton mechanism ) . finally , by looking at the correlation between our poloidal and toroidal proxies across multiple cycles , we find solar cycle memory to be limited to only one cycle . </S>"
  ]
}