{
  "article_text": [
    "our current knowledge of the universe comes primarily from the observation of photons released in the physical processes driving the formation and evolution of stars and galaxies .",
    "however , black holes ( bhs , among the most exciting astrophysical objects ) are dark in nature , and can be probed in a clean way only by _ directly _ capturing dynamical modification of the spacetime metric induced by their accelerated motion and radiated away at the speed of light . those are better known as gravitational waves ( gws ) .",
    "gws are not exclusively produced by bhs , but by any accelerated mass with a time varying mass quadrupole moment , however they are so weak , that the only potentially observable sources involve astrophysical compact objects . among the most appealing sources",
    "are : catastrophic events like supernovae ( sne ) explosions and gamma ray bursts ( grbs ) leaving behind a compact remnant , fast rotating neutron stars ( nss ) with some irregularity in their mass distribution , and , in particular , compact binaries .",
    "the latter class of sources include any combination of stellar compact objects ( white dwarfs ( wds ) , nss and bhs ) and systems involving massive and supermassive bhs ( to which we will generally refer as mbhs in the following ) : extreme mass ratio inspirals ( emris ) of stellar compact objects into a mbh , and mbh binaries .",
    "the signals emitted by the aforementioned sources have so far silently been lost in space , however , within this decade the detection of gws may indeed be a reality , opening a completely new window on the universe . while signals coming from compact stars and binaries fall in the observational domain of operating and planned ground based interferometers ( such as the advanced ligo @xcite , virgo @xcite , kagra @xcite , and the proposed third generation einstein telescope ( et ) @xcite ) , mbh binaries and emris",
    "are expected to be among the primary actors on the upcoming low frequency stage , where the @xmath0hz window is going to be probed by spaceborne interferometers like the laser interferometer space antenna ( lisa ) @xcite , or the recently proposed european development elisa / ngo @xcite . at even lower frequencies , precision timing of an array of millisecond pulsars ( i.e. a pulsar timing array , pta ) provides a unique opportunity to get the very first low - frequency detection . the european pulsar timing array ( epta ) @xcite , the parkes pulsar timing array ( ppta ) @xcite and the north american nanohertz observatory for gravitational waves ( nanograv ) @xcite , joining together in the international pulsar timing array ( ipta ) @xcite , are constantly improving their sensitivity in the frequency range of @xmath1 hz , and the planned square kilometer array ( ska ) @xcite will provide a major leap in sensitivity .    in this contribution",
    "i will focus on the most relevant gw _ astrophysical sources _ , meaning that i will not touch the possibility of detecting _ cosmological _ backgrounds from e.g. , inflation , phase transitions and defects in the early universe and cosmological strings .",
    "an overview of the latter can be found in @xcite . among all astrophysical sources",
    "particular attention will be devoted to binaries of all kind , which are the one we understand better and that will probably carry the most valuable and cleanest astrophysical information .",
    "excellent extensive reviews on the subject can be found in @xcite .",
    "after a short general introduction about the principles of gw generation and detection ( section [ gws ] ) , i will only briefly touch the ground based interferometer science in section 3 .",
    "section 4 is devoted to space - based interferometers and section 5 to ptas .",
    "the existence of gws was one of the first predictions of einstein s general relativity ( gr ) @xcite .",
    "however , universal acceptance of their existence came only in the 80s , thanks to the excellent agreement between theoretical predictions @xcite and observations of the hulse - taylor binary pulsar @xcite .",
    "gws are ripples in the fabric of the spacetime propagating at the speed of light .",
    "accelerating masses generate gws pretty much in the same way as accelerating charges generate electromagnetic waves . by expanding the mass distribution of the source into multipoles ,",
    "conservation laws enforce gws coming from the mass monopole and mass dipole to be identically zero , so that the first contribution to gw generation comes from the mass quadrupole moment @xmath2 .",
    "the gw amplitude is therefore proportional to the second time derivative ( acceleration ) of @xmath2 .",
    "moreover , energy conservation enforces the amplitude to decay as the inverse of the distance to the source , @xmath3 .",
    "a straightforward dimensional analysis shows that the amplitude of a gw is of the order of @xcite @xmath4 in order to generate gws we therefore need accelerating masses with a time varying mass - quadrupole moment .",
    "the prefactor @xmath5 implies that these waves are _ tiny _ , so that the only detectable effect is produced by massive compact astrophysical objects , as enumerated in the introduction .",
    "a detailed derivation of the gw properties is beyond the scope of this review , i shell just mention that gws are transverse , i.e. they act in a plane perpendicular to the wave propagation , and ( at least in gr ) have two distinct polarizations , usually referred to as @xmath6 and @xmath7 ( see cartoon in @xcite ) .",
    "their quadrupolar nature implies that perpendicular directions experience opposite squeezing , so that if the gw propagates in the @xmath8 direction , the metric shrinks in the @xmath9 direction while expanding in the @xmath10 direction and viceversa in a oscillatory fashion .",
    "using equation ( [ eqstrain ] ) we can infer approximate gw amplitudes for typical sources .",
    "consider , for simplicity , a circular bh binary system characterized by a keplerian frequency @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is an integer index .",
    "] , chirp mass @xmath13 ( @xmath14 are the individual masses of the two bhs ) , and distance to the observer d , equation ( [ eqstrain ] ) results in a typical strain of @xmath15 the maximum emission frequency is approximately given by twice the keplerian frequency of the binary at the innermost stable circular orbit ( isco , binary separation @xmath16 , where @xmath17 is the schwarzschild radius of the more massive object in the binary ) @xmath18 equations ( [ strainbin ] ) and ( [ fisco ] ) are indeed valid for any binary of compact objects , with one important difference : when the binary involves extended objects ( like nss or wds ) , the maximum frequency is given by the contact separation of the two bodies .",
    "for example , the maximum wd - wd binary frequency is roughly @xmath19 , beyond which , the two body merge in a single object .    plugging in the mass quadrupole moment for a rotating ellipsoid with ellipticity @xmath20 into equation ( [ eqstrain ] ) gives instead @xmath21 where we normalized to typical values of a rapidly spinning ns . on the other hand ,",
    "predicting the waves coming from collapses and explosions is much more difficult and requires detailed 3d simulations of the process .",
    "a fair bet is to assume that the explosions involve the non - axisymmetric acceleration of some substantial fraction of @xmath2 , to a speed which is a fraction of @xmath22 .",
    "this automatically sets the range of amplitudes and frequencies of interest to @xmath23 and @xmath24hz respectively ( see @xcite for an excellent review ) .",
    "the quantity @xmath25 given in equation [ eqstrain ] is usually referred to as strain , and represents the relative stretch of the metric . if two test masses are placed at a distance @xmath26 , a passing gw would result in a oscillatory relative change of their distance @xmath27 : the measurement of this relative change is at the basis of gw detection .",
    "the most promising gw detectors are laser interferometers . in these devices ,",
    "the laser beam is split in the two arms of length @xmath26 , and travels forth and back in the arms before being recombined .",
    "a passing gw causes a @xmath28 that can be observed in the interference pattern of the recombined light .",
    "earth based interferometers are limited in length ( few km ) and can not overcome the noise generated by gradients in the gravitational field of the earth .",
    "they can therefore reach sensitivities of the order of @xmath29 only in the khz frequency range ( see , for reference , the adv .",
    "ligo sensitivity curve in figure [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "stellar mass objects are therefore their main targets . to investigate lower frequencies , it is necessary to go to space .",
    "here , the possibility of sending laser signals between spacecrafts orbiting at large separations from each other , together with the absence of gravity gradients , allows to probe the mhz frequency regime , with a strain sensitivity of the order of @xmath30 ( figure [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "this is the realm of several classes of astrophysical objects including wide stellar binaries , emris and mbh binaries .",
    "precision timing of millisecond pulsars ( msps ) provide an alternative ( though equivalent ) way to detect gws ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "msps are the most stable natural clock in the universe @xcite , and the time of arrival of their pulses can be currently predicted with a precision of the order of @xmath31 ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "if the pulsar and the earth are in free - fall in a spacetime perturbed by the passage of a gw , this will leave a characteristic fingerprint in the time of arrival of the radio pulses . as a matter of fact ,",
    "the passing wave is changing the distance between the pulsar and the earth , which are now the two test masses of our detector .",
    "the signal can be recovered by correlating the time of arrivals of an array of msps , i.e. a pta , which can be ( by analogy ) thought as a galactic scale interferometer. in this latter case , the sensitivity window is set by the duration of the timing experiment ( typically several years ) and by the sampling rate of the pulsars ( typically once every few weeks ) , resulting in a range @xmath32 hz .",
    "the status of ground based interferometers and the expected science delivered by their upcoming second generation is presented by patrick brady in his contribution to this proceeding series , here i just provide a general overview .",
    "given their sensitivity curves ( figure [ fig1 ] ) , advanced ground - based interferometers are sensitive to stellar mass sources .",
    "their main goal is the detection of inspiralling compact objects ( ns - ns , ns - bh , bh - bh ) , and i report in table ( [ tab1 ] ) the expected detection rates , adapted from @xcite .",
    "the large uncertainties in the figures are due to the poor observational constrains ( we know only a handful of ns - ns systems which are going to coalesce in an hubble time , @xcite ) , and to the many unknowns affecting theoretical population synthesis models ( e.g. , the physics of common envelope evolution @xcite ) .",
    "gw observations will likely help to better understand binary evolution , possibly constraining the detailed physics of mass transfer and common envelope physics @xcite ) .",
    "ns deformation during the late inspiral of a ns - ns or ns - bh binary will inform us about the stiffness of the ns equation of state , probing the behavior of matter in extreme degenerate conditions ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "coalescing ns - ns and ns - bh are also believed to be the engines powering short grbs ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) , and coincident multimessenger ( gw plus electromagnetic ) detections will therefore provide the ultimate test for such hypothesis .",
    "rotating nss in the galaxy are another potentially interesting source @xcite . even though the strain is fairly small",
    "( see equation ( [ strainspin ] ) ) , many wave cycles will accumulate in a prolonged observation , resulting in an effective amplitude of the order of @xmath33 , where @xmath34 , being @xmath35 the period of the pulsar and @xmath36 the observation time ( order of years ) . as shown in figure [ fig1 ] adv .",
    "ligo might detect galactic nss spinning at khz frequencies with @xmath37 .",
    "collapsing and exploding objects ( sne , grbs ) are hard to model ( see @xcite for a review ) , and different proposed scenarios result peculiar gw signatures roughly falling in the cyan area in figure [ fig1 ] .",
    "detection of gw bursts from sn explosions will therefore help to understand the physical mechanism driving the collapse and the subsequent catastrophic bounce .",
    "l|lll source & @xmath38[yr@xmath39 & @xmath40[yr@xmath39 & @xmath41[yr@xmath39 + ns - ns & 0.4 & 40 & 400 + ns - bh & 0.2 & 10 & 300 + bh - bh & 0.4 & 20 & 1000 +",
    "space based interferometers like the proposed elisa ( which will be our default design in the following discussion ) are sensitive in the mhz frequency band ( figure [ fig1 ] ) , where a rich variety of sources is expected .",
    "the enormous scientific payouts related to space based interferometers are far too many to be covered in a short review .",
    "the reader can only get a sense of it from the following discussion , a complete overview can be found in @xcite .",
    "space based interferometers are the only detectors for which we have verification sources @xcite .",
    "these are known ultra - compact binaries emitting in the mhz range with high signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) , and will serve as detector calibrators . assuming the elisa design , eight such binaries are known to date .",
    "moreover elisa will be sensitive to the whole population of wide wd - wd systems ( order @xmath42 sources ) populating the galaxy .",
    "most of those adds - up to the overall confusion foreground @xcite , but about 3000 of them will be individually resolved @xcite .",
    "many resolvable binaries have periods between 5 and 10 minutes implying that they must have experienced at least one common - envelope phase ; their statistics will therefore provide critical tests of physical models of common - envelope binary evolution . although rarer , elisa will also detect a substantial population of short - period ns and bh binaries , determining their local merger rate .",
    "( only the first 5 harmonics are shown ) and the jagged yellow curve is the overall signal from a galactic population of wd - wd binaries . in the pta band , the total signal ( green solid line )",
    "is given by an incoherent superposition of individual mbh binaries ( green dots ) ; the brightest sources can be individually resolved ( blue lines and triangles ) .",
    "the lower - left inset shows the inferred cosmological merger rate of mbh binaries as a function of mass for two specific models @xcite .",
    "elisa / ngo will probe the low mass part of the distribution ( red shade ) by detecting individual merging systems , whereas pta will probe the high mass end ( green shade ) of the mass function by collecting signals from very massive systems in their inspiral phase.,width=480 ]    one of the most promising science goals of elisa is the direct detection of mbhs , which appear to be a key component of galaxies .",
    "mbhs are ubiquitous in nearby massive galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite ) and share a common evolutionary path with their hosts , undergoing repeated episodes of merger and accretion @xcite .",
    "hierarchical models of mbh assembly predict that @xmath43 mbh mergers per year occur in the universe ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) , the bulk of which involves systems with @xmath44 mbhs at @xmath45 , falling in the sweetspot of the elisa sensitivity curve .",
    "in fact , elisa will be able to detect the gws emitted by mbh binaries with total mass as small as @xmath46 and up to @xmath47 , out to a redshift as remote as @xmath48 with a snr @xmath49 .",
    "redshifted masses will be measured to an unprecedented accuracy , up to the 0.11% level , whereas absolute errors in the spin determination are expected to be in the range 0.010.1 , allowing us to reconstruct their cosmic evolution @xcite .",
    "elisa observations hence have the potential of constraining the astrophysics of mbhs along their entire cosmic history , in a mass and redshift range inaccessible to conventional electromagnetic observations .    on smaller scales ,",
    "elisa will also offer the deepest view of galactic nuclei , exploring the dynamics of stars in the space - time of a kerr bh , by capturing the gws emitted by stellar bhs orbiting the central mbh ( emris ) .",
    "a @xmath50 bh inspiralling into a @xmath44 mbh can be detected up to @xmath51 @xcite , allowing to explore a volume of several tens of gpc@xmath52 and to discover mbhs in dwarf galaxies that are still elusive to electromagnetic observations .",
    "detailed measurement of the mbh mass and spin ( up to one part in a thousand @xcite ) will enable us to characterize the population of nuclear mbhs in an interval of masses where electromagnetic observations are poor , incomplete or even missing @xcite , providing information also on their spins .",
    "elisa will also measure with equivalent precision the mass of the stellar bh in the emri event informing us about the mass spectrum of stellar bhs , which is basically unknown .",
    "high snr measurement of the gw waveforms will allow to test gr in the highly dynamical strong field regime of mbhs , including no - hair theorem tests , constrains on a putative graviton mass and on alternative theory of gravity in general .",
    "more details about testing gravity with gw observations are given by emanuele berti in his contribution to this proceedings series @xcite .",
    "by exploiting the characteristic fingerprint left by passing gws in the time of arrival of the radio pulses propagating from the pulsar to the receiver on earth @xcite , ptas are sensitive to the collective signal coming from the inspiralling population of supermassive low redshift binaries @xcite in the nhz frequency band .",
    "the overall expected characteristic strain @xmath53 can be written as @xmath54 where @xmath55 , is the comoving number of binaries emitting in a given logarithmic frequency interval with chirp mass and redshift in the range @xmath56 $ ] and @xmath57 $ ] , respectively ; and @xmath58 is the sky and polarization averaged version of the strain amplitude given in equation ( [ eqstrain ] ) , and is given by  @xcite : @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the luminosity distance to the source .",
    "the gw spectrum has a characteristic shape @xmath61 ( green solid line in figure [ fig1 ] ) , where @xmath62 is the signal normalization at @xmath63 , which depends on the details of the mbh binary population only .",
    "therefore , gw detection will provide a strong test for the effectiveness of the merger process of galaxies and their mbhs at low redshift , and will help constraining the high mass end of the mbh mass function .",
    "recent works @xcite set a plausible range @xmath64 , the upper limit being already in tension with current pta measurement @xcite . with few more years of observation",
    ", ptas have a concrete chance of detecting this signal .",
    "several millions of sources contribute to it , however , the bulk of the strain comes from few hundred sources only ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) generating a signal at a 1ns level or higher , considered the ultimate goal for the ska .",
    "therefore , the signal is far from being a gaussian isotropic background @xcite ; a handful of sources dominate the strain budget , and might be individually identified .",
    "interestingly , such systems are far from coalescence , and they can still retain much of their original eccentricity against gw circularization @xcite .",
    "eccentricity measurement of individually resolved sources may help in constraining the evolution of mbh binaries , testing our current models of their dynamical evolution in star and/or gas dominated environments . for bright enough sources ( snr@xmath65 ) sky location within few tens to few deg@xmath66",
    "is possible @xcite ( and even sub deg@xmath66 determination , under some specific conditions @xcite ) .",
    "even though this is a large chunk of the sky , these systems are extremely massive and at relatively low redshift ( @xmath67 ) , making any putative electromagnetic signature of their presence ( emission periodicity related to the binary orbital period , peculiar emission spectra , peculiar k@xmath68 line profiles , etc . )",
    "detectable @xcite .",
    "gravitational wave astronomy has never been so active as in the last few years .",
    "the prospect of the first detection from advanced ground based interferometers has triggered a wave of excitement in the astrophysical community , pushing the concept of multimessenger astronomy and the development of pipelines that combine gw and electromagnetic interactions to unveil the nature of short gamma ray bursts and supernovae .",
    "a worldwide effort of detecting low frequency waves ( in the nhz regime ) by timing ultra - precise millisecond pulsars is running in parallel .",
    "the enormous advanced in the quality of the receivers and in the data reduction techniques is making the goal of achieving sub-100ns timing precision on a bunch of pulsars possible .",
    "current array sensitivities are a factor of a few away from theoretical prediction of the nhz signal expected from cosmological supermassive black holes , making detection within this decade plausible . looking a step ahead in the future , space based interferometer such as lisa or elisa /",
    "ngo will cover the mhz regime , providing an almost full coverage of the gravitational wave spectrum from the nhz to the khz .",
    "the silent side of the universe will soon get loud .",
    "harry g. m. , and the ligo scientific collaboration , 2010 , classical and quantum gravity , 27 , 4006 acernese f. , et al .",
    ", 2006 , classical and quantum gravity , 23 , 63 somiya k. , et al . , 2012 , classical and quantum gravity , 29 , 4007 punturo m. , et al . , 2010 , classical and quantum gravity , 27 , 4002 bender p .-",
    "et al . , 1998 ,",
    "lisa pre - phase a report , second edition , mpq 233 amaro - seoane p. , et al . , 2012 , arxiv e - prints 1201.3621 amaro - seoane p. , et al . , 2012 , classical and quantum gravity , 29 , 4016 ferdman r. d. , et al . , 2010 , classical and quantum gravity , 27 , 084014 manchester r. n. , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "arxiv e - prints 1210.6130 jenet f. a. , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "arxiv e - prints 0909.1058 hobbs g. , et al .",
    ", 2010 , classical and quantum gravity , 27 , 084013 aharonian f. , et al .",
    ", 2013 , arxiv e - prints 1301.4124 binetruy p. , boh a. , caprini c. & dufaux j .- f . , 2012 ,",
    "jcap , 6 , 27 thorne , k. s. , particle and nuclear astrophysics and cosmology in the next millenium , proceedings of the 1994 snowmass summer study held 29 june - 14 july , 1994 . edited by e.w .",
    "kolb and r.d .",
    "singapore : world scientific , 1995 . , p.160 hughes s. a. , 2003 , annals of physics , volume 303 , issue 1 , p. 142 - 178",
    "a. einstein , 1916 , koeniglich preuische akademie der wissenschaften berlin , sitzungsberichte , 688 .",
    "damour t. , 1983 , phys .",
    "lett . , 51 , 1019 .",
    "taylor j. h. & weisberg j. m. , 1989 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 345 , 434 ott c. d. , 2009 , classical and quantum gravity , 26 , 3001 sazhin m. v. , 1978 , soviet astron .",
    ", 22 , 36 hellings r. w. & downs g. s. , 1983 , astrophys . j. , 265 , 39 jenet f. a. , hobbs g. b. , lee k. j. & manchester r. n. , 2005 , astrophys . j. , 625 , 123 hobbs g. , et al . , 2011 , mnras , 427 , 2780 verbiest j. p. w. , et al . , 2009 , mnras , 400 , 951 owen b. j. , lindblom l. , cutler c. , schutz b. f. , vecchio a. & andersson n. , 1998 , phys .",
    "d , 58 , 4020 sesana a. , gair j. , berti e. & volonteri m. , 2011 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 83 , 4036 abadie j. , et al .",
    ", 2010 , classical and quantum gravity , 27 , 3001 kalogera v. , et al . , 2004 , astrophys .",
    "j. lett . , 601 , 179 dominik m. , et al . , 2012 .",
    "j. , 759 , 52 gerosa d. , kesden m. , berti e. , oshaughnessy r. & sperhake u. , 2013 , arxiv e - prints 1302.4442 read j. , et al .",
    ", 2009 , phys .",
    "d , 79 , 4033 kochanek c. s. & piran t. , 1993 , astrophys .",
    ", 417 , 17 stroeer a. & vecchio a. , 2006 , classical and quantum gravity , 23 , 809 nelemans g. , yungelson l. r. , portegies zwart s. f. , 2001 , a&a , 375 , 890 nissanke s. , vallisneri m. , nelemans g. & prince t. a. , 2012 , astrophys . j. , 758 , 131 magorrian j. et al . , 1998 ,",
    "aj , 115 , 2285 volonteri m. , haardt f. & madau p. , 2003",
    ", astrophys .",
    "j. , 582 , 599 malbon , r. k. , baugh , c. m. , frenk , c. s. , & lacey , c. g. 2007 , mnras , 382 , 1394 sesana a. , volonteri m. & haardt f. , 2007 , mnras , 377 , 1711 barack l. & cutler c. , 2004 , phys .",
    "d. , 69 , 2005 gair j. r. , tang c. & volonteri m. , 2010 , phys .",
    "d , 81 , 4014 berti e. , 2013 , arxiv e - prints 1302.5702 sesana a. , vecchio a. & colacino c. n. , 2008 , mnras , 390 , 192 sesana a. , vecchio a. & volonteri m. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 2255 thorne k. s. , 1987 , gravitational radiation ..",
    "pp 330458 ravi v. , et al . , 2012 , astrophys . j. , 761 , 84 mcwilliams s. t. , ostriker j. p. , pretorius f. , 2012 , arxiv e - prints 1211.4590 sesana a. , 2012 , mnras , in press , arxiv e - prints 1211.5375 van haasteren r. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , mnras , 414 , 3117 demorest p. b. , et al . , 2013 ,",
    "j. , 762 , 94 kocsis b. & sesana a. , 2011 , mnras , 411 , 1467 sesana a. , 2010 , apj , 719 , 851 preto m. , berentzen i. , berczik p. & spurzem r. , 2011 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 732 , 26 roedig c. , dotti m. , sesana a. , cuadra j. & colpi m. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 3033 sesana a. & vecchio a. , 2010 , phys .",
    "d , 81 , 4008 ellis j. a. , siemens x. & creighton j. d. e. , 2012 , astrophys . j. , 756 , 175 petiteau a. , babak s. , sesana a. & de araujo m. , 2013 , phys . rev .",
    "d , in press , arxiv e - prints 1210.2396 lee k. j. , et al . , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 3251 sesana a. , roedig c. , reynolds m.t . & dotti m. , 2012 , mnras , 420 , 860 tanaka t. , menou k. & haiman z. , 2012 , mnras , 420 , 705"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> within this decade gravitational wave detection will open a new observational window on the universe . </S>",
    "<S> advanced ground based interferometers covering the khz frequency range will be online by 2016 , and it is foreseeable the announcement of a first detection within five years . at the same time , a worldwide effort of detecting low frequency waves ( in the nhz regime ) by timing ultra - precise millisecond pulsars is rapidly growing , possibly leading to a positive detection within this decade . </S>",
    "<S> the mhz regime , bridging these two windows , is the realm of space based interferometers , which might be launched in the late 20s . </S>",
    "<S> i provide here a short overview of the scientific payouts of gravitational wave astronomy , focusing the discussion on the low frequency regime ( pulsar timing and space based interferometry ) . </S>",
    "<S> a detailed discussion of advanced ground based interferometer can be found in patrick brady s contribution to this proceedings series . </S>"
  ]
}