{
  "article_text": [
    "recent measurements of cosmic rays by the atic @xcite , cream @xcite , and pamela @xcite experiments have indicated the presence of hardening in the energy spectra of protons , helium and heavier nuclei at tev energies .",
    "the observed hardening does not seem to be in good agreement with general theoretical predictions .",
    "based on the simple linear theory of diffusive shock acceleration ( dsa ) of cosmic rays @xcite , and the nature of cosmic - ray transport in the galaxy ( see e.g. , @xcite ) , the cosmic - ray spectrum is expected to follow a single power - law at least up to @xmath0 pev , the so - called  cosmic - ray knee \" .",
    "different explanations for the spectral hardening have been proposed .",
    "most of these explanations suggest either hardening in the cosmic - ray source spectrum or changes in the propagation properties in the galaxy .",
    "possible scenarios that can produce a hardened source spectrum have been suggested in @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , and models based on propagation effects have been discussed in @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "various interpretations of the spectral hardening including the effect of local sources can be found in @xcite .",
    "it is generally believed that nearby sources can affect the properties of cosmic rays observed at the earth , and they might also account for the observed spectral hardening . in @xcite , it was suggested that the hardening can be due to a steep local component dominating up to @xmath1 gev / n , and a flatter background dominating at higher energies .",
    "another scenario is that the high - energy spectrum might be dominating by the local component and the low - energy region is dominated by the background .",
    "this scenario was proposed in our recent work ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter referred to as ) , in which we considered nearby supernova remnants within @xmath2 kpc in the solar vicinity .",
    "in addition to explaining the spectral hardening , we could also explain the observed hardening of the helium spectrum at relatively lower energy / nucleon with respect to the protons .",
    "moreover , we showed that the hardening may not continue beyond few tens of tev / nucleon .    in , we concentrated only on protons and helium nuclei .",
    "moreover , we did not perform a detailed calculation for the background component .",
    "the background was obtained by fitting the measured low - energy data in the range of @xmath3 gev / n . considering that this is the energy region where both the contribution of the local sources and the effect of the solar modulation are expected to be minimum , the background thus obtained seems to represent fairly well the averaged cosmic - ray background present in the galaxy .",
    "however , the background should be consistent with the observed data down to lower energies say up to sub - gev or @xmath4 gev energies .",
    "this consistency was not checked in .",
    "in addition , if we assume a common cosmic - ray source throughout the galaxy , then the source parameters for the background component such as the spectral index and the cosmic - ray injection power should also be consistent with those of the nearby sources . to check whether the spectral hardening can still be explained by maintaining such consistencies ,",
    "a detailed calculation should be carried out for both components together .",
    "this is the main motivation of our present paper .",
    "a similar study was recently presented in @xcite .",
    "the main difference between their work and ours is on the treatment of the nearby sources .",
    "they assumed supernova remnants as instantaneous point - like sources injecting cosmic rays in an energy - independent manner , while we consider finite - sized remnants producing cosmic rays of different energies at different stages in their lifetime .",
    "for distant sources , the much simpler energy - independent point - source approximation may represent a valid approximation , but for nearby sources , it is more realistic to take into account their finite sizes and the nature of cosmic - ray injection in the galaxy @xcite .    in the present work",
    ", we will further extend our study to heavier cosmic - ray species namely boron , carbon , oxygen , and iron .",
    "we will also present a detailed comparison of our results on the secondary - to - primary ratios , secondary spectrum and the diffuse gamma - ray spectrum with those expected from other existing models .",
    "our model is described in section 2 .",
    "then , our calculations for the cosmic - ray spectrum from a nearby source and for the background spectrum are presented in sections 3 and 4 , respectively , and in section 5 , the various interaction cross - sections and the matter density that will be used for our study will be presented . in section 6 ,",
    "constraints on the contribution of the nearby sources imposed by the secondary cosmic - ray spectrum are discussed . in section 7 , the results on the heavy nuclei are presented , and in section 8 , the results on protons and helium nuclei are described . in section 9 ,",
    "we discuss and compare our results with the predictions of other models .",
    "although there is no direct evidence yet that proves that supernova remnants are the major source of galactic cosmic rays , they represent the most probable candidates both from the theoretical and the observational point of views .",
    "theoretically , it has been established that the dsa process @xcite inside supernova remnants can produce a power - law spectrum of particles up to very high energies with a spectral index close to @xmath5 .",
    "this value of spectral index agrees nicely with the values determined from radio observation of supernova remnants @xcite .",
    "moreover , if @xmath6 of the total supernova kinetic energy is channeled into cosmic rays , supernova remnants can easily account for the total amount of cosmic - ray energy contained in the galaxy .",
    "observationally , the presence of high - energy particles inside supernova remnants is evident from detections of non - thermal x - rays and tev @xmath7-rays from a number of remnants @xcite .",
    "the non - thermal x - rays are most likely synchrotron radiations produced by high - energy electrons in the presence of magnetic fields .",
    "the tev @xmath7-rays are produced either by inverse compton interactions of high energy electrons with ambient low energy photons or by the decay of neutral pions , which are produced by the interaction of hadronic cosmic rays , mainly protons with the surrounding matter .",
    "irrespective of the nature of production , the detection of tev @xmath7-rays suggests the presence of charged particles with energies larger than few tev inside supernova remnants .",
    "based on these observational evidences and our current theoretical understanding , we assume that supernova remnants are the main sources of cosmic rays in the galaxy .",
    "we further assume that cosmic rays observed at the earth consist of two components : a steady background which dominates most of the spectrum and a local component which is produced by nearby sources .",
    "the background is considered to be produced by distant sources which follow a uniform and continuous distribution in the galactic disk , and the local component is assumed to be contributed by supernova remnants with distances within @xmath2 kpc from the earth .",
    "a list of supernova remnants that will be considered for our study are given in table 1 .",
    ".[snr ] list of supernova remnants with distances @xmath8 kpc considered in our study .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     however , some basic differences can be noticed .",
    "first , the background spectrum is steeper in the present case . at high energies ,",
    "the proton background follows a spectral index of @xmath9 and the helium background has an index of @xmath10 . to be compared ,",
    "the background indices were obtained as @xmath10 and @xmath11 respectively in .",
    "it may be recalled that in , the backgrounds were obtained by fitting the measured spectra between @xmath3 gev / n and their consistency with the low energy data below @xmath12 gev / n was not checked . from figure 6 , it can be noticed that the background adopted in the present study agrees nicely ( in fact , even better when the small local component has been added ) with the data down to @xmath2 gev / n .",
    "second , in , the source index for the nearby sources were obtained as @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is the background index and @xmath15 is the diffusion index .",
    "so , for the proton background of @xmath16 and @xmath17 adopted in , the source index was found to be @xmath18 .",
    "this is flatter than the proton source index of @xmath19 adopted in the present study .",
    "adopting a steeper source index suppresses the contribution from nearby sources at high energies . for the same amount of total energy injected into protons , a source with an index of @xmath19 produces @xmath20 times less number of source particles at @xmath21 tev than a source with an index of @xmath18 .",
    "a similar difference is also expected in the case of helium . on the other hand , taking a smaller value of @xmath22 enhances the flux from a nearby source .",
    "this is clear from the discussion on eq .",
    "( 8) , given in section 3 which showed that at very high energies , the particle spectrum depends on @xmath22 as @xmath23 .",
    "after detailed investigation , we find that the increase in the particle flux in the present study due to smaller @xmath22 is almost equal to the decrease in the flux due to the steeper source index . because of these two almost equal and opposite effects",
    ", we can still explain the spectral hardening of helium with an injection efficiency very close to that used in . for protons , we need an injection efficiency of @xmath24 in the present study , which is approximately twice the value obtained in .",
    "this difference is because of the lower proton background in the present study at energies above @xmath4 tev as compared to the background in . for helium ,",
    "the background does not differ too much at tev energies in the two studies .",
    "another difference results from the difference in the cosmic - ray escape parameter and the diffusion index .",
    "a smaller @xmath25 produces a sharper low - energy cut - off and a larger @xmath15 leads to a steeper fall - off in the high - energy spectrum from a nearby source . in , where we took @xmath26 and @xmath17 , this led to sharper peaks in the individual contributions of the nearby remnants , thereby resulted into stronger structures in the resultant total spectrum . in the present study ,",
    "the slightly larger value of @xmath27 and the smaller value of @xmath28 produce broader peaks in the individual contributions leading to weaker structures in the overall total spectrum .",
    "we have shown that the spectral hardening of cosmic rays at tev energies recently observed by the atic , cream , and pamela experiments can be due to nearby supernova remnants . considering that cosmic rays escape from supernova remnants in an energy - dependent manner , we also show that heavier elements should exhibit spectral hardening at relatively lower energies / nucleon with respect to protons , and that the hardening might not continue up to very high energies .",
    "these results also seem to agree with the measured data .    in general , the results obtained in this paper agree very well with those presented in .",
    "our present study involves a detailed calculation of the background cosmic rays unlike in , and also follow a consistent treatment of the cosmic - ray source spectrum for the background and the nearby sources .",
    "our results are found to be consistent with the observed data over a wide range in energy from @xmath2 gev / n to @xmath29 gev / n for a reasonable set of model parameters .",
    "our calculation requires a supernova explosion rate of @xmath4 per century in the galaxy , and cosmic - ray injection efficiencies of @xmath30 for protons , @xmath31 for helium nuclei which is exactly @xmath32 of the proton value , @xmath33 for carbon and oxygen , and @xmath34 for iron .",
    "the required source index for protons is @xmath35 and for helium nuclei , @xmath36 . for carbon , oxygen and iron",
    ", we determined the same source index of @xmath37 .",
    "the required source indices of @xmath38 in the present study are slightly steeper than a value of @xmath39 predicted by dsa theory .",
    "actually , even a larger value of @xmath40 is favored by the high level of cosmic - ray isotropy observed between around @xmath2 and @xmath41 tev which in turn suggests a smaller value of the diffusion index of @xmath42 @xmath43 to @xmath44 @xcite .",
    "this discrepancy between observation and theory is still not clearly understood .",
    "our model predictions are expected to be different in many respects from those of other existing models .",
    "models which are based either on the hardening in the source spectrum or changes in the diffusion properties of cosmic rays at high energies will produce a spectrum that remains hard up to very high energies ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "but , although not very significant , the cream data seems to indicate that the spectral hardening does not continue beyond few tens of tev / n , which in general is in good agreement with our prediction . in figure 7 , we compare our result for proton spectrum ( double - dashed line ) with the predictions of other models : model i ( thick - dashed line ) and model ii ( thin - solid line ) .",
    "model i represents models with a hardened source spectrum above a certain energy , but assumes the same diffusion coefficient as in our model .",
    "model ii represents models which incorporate a break or hardening in the diffusion coefficient .",
    "the source spectrum in model ii is taken to be the same as in our model .",
    "also shown in figure 7 for reference is the background spectrum obtained in our model . to reproduce the same measured spectrum , models",
    "i and ii are chosen to have their respective breaks in the source spectrum or in the diffusion coefficient at the same energy @xmath45 gev / n .",
    "it can be noticed that our result shows significant difference mostly at energies above @xmath46 pev .",
    "thus , if the cosmic - ray spectrum exhibit an exponential cut - off below @xmath46 pev , our result will not be significantly different from the others",
    ". however , detailed studies on the origin of the cosmic - ray knee suggest a cut - off at energies around @xmath47 pev @xcite .",
    "even more different between the different models will be the secondary - to - primary ratios and the secondary spectra . in the standard model of cosmic - ray propagation ,",
    "the secondary - to - primary ratio is independent of the source parameters and gives a good measure of the cosmic - ray diffusion coefficient in the galaxy .",
    "however , in our model , which considers the effect of the nearby sources , the ratio may deviate from the standard result .",
    "this is because the nearby sources can affect only the primary spectrum , and their effect on the secondaries is negligible .",
    "thus , we expect to see a steepening in the ratio in the energy region where the nearby contribution on the primary spectrum is significant .",
    "this is shown in figure 8 for the boron - to - carbon ratio .",
    "notice the significant steepening in our model above @xmath48",
    "gev / n with respect to model i even though both the models assume the same diffusion coefficient .",
    "the result for model ii is even more flatter at high energies , reflecting the harder value of diffusion coefficient above @xmath45 gev / n assumed in the model .    for an equilibrium primary spectrum @xmath49 , and a diffusion coefficient @xmath50 ,",
    "the secondary spectrum in the galaxy follows @xmath51 .",
    "this shows that for a fixed diffusion coefficient , the shape of the secondary spectrum is determined by the shape of the primary spectrum .",
    "therefore , models that consider the same diffusion coefficient , but different @xmath52 will produce different @xmath53 .",
    "since the background primary spectrum above @xmath54 in our model is steeper than in model i ( see figure 7 , thin dashed and thick - dashed lines ) , the secondary spectrum is expected to be steeper above @xmath54 in our model .",
    "this is shown in figure 9 for the boron spectrum , where the thick - dashed line represents model i , and the thin - dashed line represents our model .",
    "the difference is expected to be even more significant if we compare with model ii , which assumes a harder diffusion index above @xmath54 .",
    "the thin - solid line in figure 9 represents model ii .",
    "similar differences are also expected in other types of secondary nuclear species such as sub - iron , and anti - protons as shown in @xcite , which also discussed the effects of different models on various observed properties of cosmic rays including the secondary - to - primary ratios and the diffuse gamma - ray emissions .",
    "the galactic diffuse gamma - ray spectrum in our model is also expected to be different from those calculated using other models .",
    "if the diffuse emission is dominated by gamma - rays produced from the decay of @xmath55 mesons , then their spectrum at high energies would largely follow that of the primary protons .",
    "as the background spectrum in our model is steeper above @xmath54 than the spectrum adopted in other models , our diffuse gamma - ray spectrum will be steeper above @xmath54 .",
    "this is shown in figure 10 where the thin - dashed line represents our model , and the thick dashed and thin - solid lines represent models i and ii respectively .",
    "the data represents the gamma - ray intensity for galactic latitudes @xmath56 measured by the fermi experiment @xcite .",
    "all results plotted in figure 10 are normalized to the data at @xmath57 gev .",
    "the calculations use the different proton spectra shown in figure 7 , and the gamma - ray production cross - section is taken from kelner et al . 2006 . in figure 10 , we can see that models i and ii give almost the same result , and produce a harder gamma - ray spectrum with respect to our model above @xmath58 gev .",
    "this difference can be checked by future measurements at high energies , and can distinguish our model from others .",
    "the data in figure 10 show some excess above the model predictions between @xmath59 gev .",
    "although it is not the aim of this paper to perform a detailed modeling of the fermi data , it can be mentioned that the excess is most likely due to additional contributions from other processes such as bremsstrahlung , inverse compton and unresolved point sources , which are neglected in our calculations .",
    "detailed calculations involving all the possible contributions have shown that the diffuse gamma - rays up to @xmath58 gev measured by fermi from different regions in the galaxy can be explained using a single power - law cosmic - ray spectrum without any break above a few gev ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also @xcite ) .",
    "we have presented a detailed and improved version of our previous work presented in @xcite where we showed that the spectral hardening of cosmic rays observed at tev energies can be a local effect due to nearby supernova remnants . unlike in where the cosmic - ray background was obtained by merely fitting the low - energy data ,",
    "the present work involves a detailed calculation of both , the background and the local components , considering consistent cosmic - ray source parameters between the two components .",
    "in addition to the results for protons and helium nuclei ( which were also studied in ) , we have also presented results for heavier cosmic - ray species , such as boron , carbon , oxygen , and iron nuclei . unlike in other existing models",
    ", we have shown that heavier nuclei should exhibit hardening at a lower energy / nucleon as compared to protons , and also that the hardening may not continue up to very high energies for all the species .",
    "although not very significant , the available data seem to suggest our findings .",
    "moreover , we have also shown that our results on the secondary - to - primary ratios , the secondary spectra , and the galactic diffuse gamma - ray spectrum at high energies are expected to be different from the predictions of other models .",
    "future sensitive high - energy measurements on these quantities can differentiate our model from others .",
    "abdo , a. a. , et al .",
    "2010 , prl , 104 , 101101 ackermann , m. , et al .",
    "2012 , arxiv:1202.4039 adriani , o. , et al .",
    "2011 , science , 332 , 69 aguilar , m. , et al .",
    "2002 , physics reports , 366 , 331 aharonian , f. a. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 636 , 777 aharonian , f. a. , et al .",
    "2008 , a@xmath60a , 477 , 353 ahn , h. s. , allison , p. s. , bagliesi , m. g. , et al . , 2008 , aph , 30 , 133 ahn , h. s. , allison , p. s. , bagliesi , m. g. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 707 , 593 alcaraz , j. , et al .",
    "2000 , physics letters b 490 , 27 ave , m. et al . , 2009 , apj , 697 , 106 bell , a. r. , 1978 , mnras 182 , 147 berezhko , e. g. 1996 , aph , 5 , 367 berezhko , e. g. , yelshin , v. k. , & ksenofontov , l. t. , 1996 , aph , 2 , 215 berezhko , e. g. , ksenofontov , l. t. , ptuskin , v. s. , et al .",
    "2003 , a&a , 410 , 189 bernard , g. , delahaye , t. , keum , y. -y . , liu , w. , salati , p. , taillet , r. , 2012 , arxiv:1207.4670 biermann p. l. , becker j. k. , dreyer j. , meli a. , seo e. , stanev t. , 2010 , apj , 725 , 184 blasi , p. , amato , e. , & serpico , p. d. , 2012 , prl , 109 , 061101 bronfman , l. , cohen , r. s. , alvarez , h. , may , j. , thaddeus , p. , 1988",
    ", apj , 324 , 248 caprioli , d. , blasi , p. , @xmath60 amato , e. 2009 , mnras , 396 , 2065 cox , p. , krgel , e. , & mezger , p. g. , 1986 , a&a , 155 , 380 engelmann , j. j. , ferrando , p. , soutoul , a. , goret , p. , & juliusson , e. 1990 , a&a , 233 , 96 erlykin , a. d. @xmath60 wolfendale , a. w. , 2012 , aph , 35 , 449 ginzburg , v. l. , & ptuskin , v. s. , 1976 , rvmp , 48 , 161 gleeson , l. j. , & axford , w . i. , 1968 , apj , 154 , 1011 gordon m. a. , & burton w. b. , 1976 , apj , 208 , 346 green , d. a. , 2009 , basi , 37 , 45 heinbach , u. , & simon , m. , 1995 , apj , 441 , 209 hrandel , j. r. , 2003 , aph , 19 , 193 kelner , s. r. , aharonian , f. a. , & bugayov , v. v. , 2006 , prd 74 , 034018 krymskii , g. f. , 1977 , akad .",
    "nauk sssr dokl . , 234 , 1306 letaw , j. r. , silberberg , r. , & tsao , c. h. , 1983 , apjs , 51 , 271 mller , d. , swordy , s. p. , meyer , p. , lheureux , j. , & grunsfeld , j.m . , 1991 , apj , 374 , 356 obermeier , a. , ave , m. , boyle , p. , et al . , 2011 , apj , 742 , 14 ohira , y. , murase , k. , & yamazaki , r. , 2011 , mnras , 410 , 1577 panov , a. d. et al . 2007 , bull .",
    "494 parizot , e. , marcowith , a. , ballet , j. , & gallant , y. a. 2006 , a&a , 453 , 387 ptuskin , v. s. , & zirakashvili , v. n. 2005 , a&a , 429 , 755 ptuskin , v. s. , jones , f. c. , seo , e. s. , & sina , r. , 2006 , advances space res .",
    ", 37 , 1909 ptuskin , v. s. , zirakashvili , v. , & seo , e. s. , 2010 , apj , 718 , 31 ptuskin , v. s. , zirakashvili , v. , & seo , e. s. , 2013 , apj , 763 , 47 strong , a. w. , porter , t. a. , digel , s. w. , 2010 , apj , 722 , l58 strong , a. w. & moskalenko , i. v. , 2009 , @xmath61 icrc , lodz swordy , s. p. , mller , d. , meyer , p. , lheureux , j. , & grunsfeld , j. m. , 1990 , apj , 349 , 625 thoudam , s. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , l1 thoudam , s. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , 335 thoudam , s. , & hrandel , j. r. 2012a , mnras , 421 , 1209 ( paper i ) thoudam , s. , & hrandel , j. r. 2012b , mnras , 419 , 624 tomassetti , n. 2012 , apj , 752 , l13 vladimirov , a. e , jhannesson , g. , moskalenko , i. v. & porter , t. a. , 2012 , apj , 752 , 68 wandel , a. , eichler , d. , letaw , j. r. , et al .",
    "1987 , apj , 316 , 676 yoon , y. s. et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 728 , 122 yuan , q. , zhang , b. , & bi , x. -j , 2011 , phys . rev .",
    "d 84 , 043002"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> measurements of cosmic rays by experiments such as atic , cream , and pamela indicate a hardening of the cosmic - ray energy spectrum at tev energies . in our recent work @xcite </S>",
    "<S> , we showed that the hardening can be due to the effect of nearby supernova remnants . </S>",
    "<S> we showed it for the case of protons and helium nuclei . in this paper , we present an improved and more detailed version of our previous work , and extend our study to heavier cosmic - ray species such as boron , carbon , oxygen , and iron nuclei . </S>",
    "<S> unlike our previous study , the present work involves a detailed calculation of the background cosmic rays and follows a consistent treatment of cosmic - ray source parameters between the background and the nearby components . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , we also present a detailed comparison of our results on the secondary - to - primary ratios , secondary spectra , and the diffuse gamma - ray spectrum with the results expected from other existing models , which can be checked by future measurements at high energies .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    cosmic rays  diffusion  ism : supernova remnants  ism : general </S>"
  ]
}