{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation and evolution of galaxies is a subject of great complexity .",
    "if on the one hand the cosmological framework of the structure formation in the universe is well in place and in agreement with observations , on the other hand the significant differences that emerge between galaxy models and the observed trends leave open many unsolved problems and intriguing scenarios on the physical processes involved . studies of the galaxy mass function ( mf hereafter ) are expected to provide important clues in this context because the mf , in addition to constraining the baryonic content of galaxies , is the result of the hierarchical mass assembly of dark matter halos , the intrinsic physical processes and the transformation processes that galaxies experience during their lifetimes @xcite . in recent years , the combination of spectroscopic catalogs with large photometric ( especially infrared ) surveys such as 2df , sdss , 2mass has made possible to explore the distribution of galaxy stellar masses in the local universe over the mass range @xmath3 @xcite and as a function of the galaxy environment .",
    "there are two main ways to characterize the environment .",
    "one is to refer to the `` global '' structure to which a galaxy belongs ( from clusters , to groups , to lower mass haloes ) .",
    "the second one is based on `` local '' galaxy density which can be parametrized following different techniques , for example by the number density of objects within some distance or measuring the distance of a galaxy to the @xmath4 nearest neighbour , with @xmath4 typically between 5 - 10 .",
    "various studies have found that the galaxy mf depends on local galaxy density , with denser environments hosting on average more massive galaxies , both in the nearby universe @xcite and at higher redshifts @xcite .",
    "these works have analyzed galaxies in the general field , measuring the galaxy local density based on the 5th nearest neighbours .",
    "@xcite have also shown the importance of the local density in regulating the mass distribution within galaxy clusters at low and intermediate redshift .",
    "in contrast , the variation of the mf with global environment , and consequently halo mass , has not been fully understood . in the local universe ,",
    "the study from @xcite finds a different mass function in clusters compared to the field , while other works detect no difference @xcite .",
    "the mf in distant clusters and its evolution from @xmath5 to @xmath6 have been analyzed for the first time in @xcite .",
    "they found that the mf evolves with redshift : clusters at high - z show proportionally more massive galaxies than clusters at low - z , probably as a consequence of the mass growth of galaxies due to star formation in both cluster galaxies and , most of all , in galaxies infalling from the cluster surrounding areas .",
    "a preliminary comparison with the field mfs taken from literature did not find evidence for an environmental mass segregation .    performing an additional study on cluster and field data at @xmath7",
    ", @xcite found that the mass distribution at these redshifts does not show a dependence on global environment , being the global environment defined as clusters , groups or general field .",
    "as a consequence , the evolution of the mf between @xmath8 and today is similar in clusters and the general field .",
    "differences in the mf of galaxies at intermediate redshifts become evident when comparing group and isolated galaxies , as found for the the zcosmos sample by @xcite . at similar redshifts ,",
    "@xcite analysing a sample of x - ray galaxy groups , found that the mf of passive galaxies shows a difference from groups to field while the star - forming mf is similar in all environments .",
    "the dependence of the mf on local density and its invariance from clusters to groups to general field @xcite led these authors to conclude that at least at @xmath9 local density is more important than global environment in determining the galaxy stellar mass distribution , suggesting that galaxy properties are not much dependent of halo mass , but do depend on local scale processes .    on the theoretical side , @xcite found a correlation between the stellar mass of the central galaxy and the mass of the dark matter halo in n - body simulations .",
    "indeed , observationally , at cluster scales the mass distribution of central galaxies appears to be a function of halo mass @xcite but whether the total mass function depends on global environment is still an open question for both observations and simulations .",
    "as far as the dark matter component is concerned , high resolution numerical simulations predict that dark matter haloes contain a population of subhaloes whose mass function is found to be universal , independently of the mass of the host halo @xcite .",
    "several authors have found that simulations coupled with semi - analytic models are not able to reproduce the mass function of low - mass galaxies ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "a detailed theoretical investigation for different halo masses has not been carried out yet and is currently underway ( vulcani et al . in prep . ) .    in this work",
    "we analyze the mf of galaxies at low redshift ( @xmath10 ) as a function of `` global '' environment .",
    "we study both the general field mf and , for the first time , its variation in progressively less massive `` haloes '' from clusters , to groups , to binary systems and single galaxies , covering a range of system masses from @xmath11 to systems that are expected to be of the order of a few times @xmath12 .",
    "our aim is to understand if and how the mf varies with the global environment in the local universe , where we are able to perform a detailed analysis isolating also low mass environments .",
    "in addition , we study the mf of different morphological types : ellipticals , lenticulars and later - type galaxies .",
    "our aim here is twofold : to characterize the differences in mf between a morphological type and the other , in each given environment , and to investigate whether the mf of a given type changes with environment .",
    "the paper is structured as follows : after presenting our datasets in  2 , we present our mass measurements and methods in  3.1 and 3.2 , respectively . ",
    "3.3 shows a comparison of our general field mf with previous literature results .",
    "our main results are presented in  4 .",
    "the galaxy mfs by morphological types , how they differ with environment and from each other , are given in  5 .",
    "we discuss our results in  6 and summarize them in  7 . throughout this paper",
    "we consider a @xmath13 cosmology with @xmath14 , @xmath15 and hubble constant of @xmath16 , a kroupa ( 2001 ) imf and vega magnitudes .",
    "in order to present a complete overview of how galaxies properties vary in different environments , we used two galaxy samples in the local universe : group , binary , single and , all together , general field galaxies were selected from the padova millennium galaxy and group catalog ( pm2gc ) @xcite , while cluster galaxies were selected from wings @xcite .",
    "the pm2gc ( calvi et al . 2011 ) is a database built on the basis of the millennium galaxy catalogue ( mgc ) , a deep and wide b - imaging survey along an equatorial strip of @xmath17deg@xmath18 obtained with the int ( isaac newton telescope ) .",
    "the design , execution , reduction , object detection and preliminary analysis of this survey are described in @xcite .",
    "the mgc field lies within the 2dfgrs northern galactic cap region and the sdss region and a detailed comparison of the mgc with these surveys is described in @xcite .",
    "we constructed the pm2gc catalogue restricting ourselves to galaxies brighter than @xmath19 - 18.7 with a spectroscopic redshift in the range 0.03@xmath20z@xmath200.11 ( 3210 galaxies ) , taken from the mgcz catalogue , the spectroscopic extension of the mgc that has a @xmath21 spectroscopic completeness at these magnitudes @xcite .    by applying a friends - of - friends algorithm",
    "we were able to identify a catalogue of 176 galaxy groups with at least three members in the redshift range 0.04@xmath22z@xmath220.1 containing in total 1057 galaxies ( pm2-g , hereafter _ groups _ ) .",
    "we consider members of the groups only those galaxies that after several iterations are within @xmath23 is the approximation of the virial radius computed as in @xcite .",
    "] from the group centre and @xmath24 ( velocity dispersion ) from the group redshift .",
    "galaxies that do not satisfy the group linking criteria adopted have been placed either in the catalogue of single field galaxies ( pm2-fs , hereafter _ single _ ) , that comprise the isolated galaxies , or in the catalogue of binary field galaxies ( pm2-fb , hereafter _ binary _ ) which comprise the systems with two galaxies within 1500 @xmath25 and 0.5 @xmath26 mpc .",
    "the redshift range of these catalogues is 0.03@xmath20z@xmath200.11 .",
    "all galaxies in the environments described above and galaxies excluded from the final virialized groups by the fof procedure are collected in the  general field  sample ( pm2-gf , hereafter _ general field _ ) .",
    "the methods and the presentation of catalogues are described in @xcite and the samples are available online on the web page of the mnras paper and of the mgc .    for the analysis discussed in this paper we decided to limit the single , binary and general field catalogues to the same redshift range of groups ( 0.04@xmath22z@xmath220.1 ) and for general field we also excluded galaxies in group with edge problems . moreover , in this paper we considered as `` group '' galaxies only members of groups with a velocity dispersion @xmath27 , to eliminate from our group sample a possible contamination from clusters .",
    "designed to investigate the properties of galaxies in clusters and their connection with the cluster properties , wings @xcite is a multiwavelength survey based on deep optical ( b , v ) wide field images ( @xmath28 35@xmath2935 ) of 76 clusters at 0.04@xmath30z@xmath300.07 .",
    "the targets were selected in the x - ray from the rosat brightest cluster sample , and its extension @xcite in the northern hemisphere , and the x - ray brightest abell - type cluster sample @xcite in the southern hemisphere , and span a wide range in velocity dispersion ( @xmath31 typically between 500 - 1100 km s@xmath32 ) and x - ray luminosity ( l@xmath33 between 0.2 - 5@xmath34erg s@xmath32 ) .",
    "in addition to the optical imaging data a number of follow - ups were carried out to obtain a large set of homogeneous informations for galaxies in wings clusters .",
    "wings - spe is the spectroscopic survey conducted with the spectrographs wyffos@wht and 2df@aat for a subsample of 48 clusters for galaxies with a fiber aperture magnitude v@xmath3021.5 @xcite .",
    "in addition , near - infrared ( j , k ) observations of 28 clusters with wfcam@ukirt @xcite and u - band imaging for a subsample with wide - field cameras at different telescopes ( int , lbt , bok , omizzolo et al . in prep . ) have been obtained .",
    "an omegacam / vst u , b and v follow - up of about 50 wings clusters is underway .    for our analysis , we have considered 21 of the 48 clusters with spectroscopy .",
    "this is the subsample that provides a spectroscopic completeness larger than 50% ( see table1 in @xcite ) .",
    "only spectroscopically confirmed members within @xmath35 ( the largest radius generally covered in clusters ) will be considered . for our analysis ,",
    "wings galaxies were weighted for spectroscopic incompleteness using the ratio between the number of galaxies with a spectroscopic redshift and the number of galaxies in the parent photometric catalogue , as a function of galaxy magnitude , as described in @xcite . a detailed description of redshift measurements , cluster membership and completeness level is given in @xcite .      all galaxies in our samples have been morphologically classified using morphot , an automatic non parametric tool designed to obtain morphological type estimates of large galaxy samples @xcite , which has been shown to be able to distinguish between ellipticals and s0 galaxies with unprecedented accuracy .",
    "it combines a set of 11 diagnostics , directly and easily computable from the galaxy image and sensitive to some particular morphological characteristic and/or feature of the galaxies , providing two indipendent estimates of the morphological type based on : ( i ) a maximum likelihood technique ; ( ii ) a neural network machine .",
    "the final morphological estimator combines the two techniques and the comparison with visual classifications of sdss images provides an average difference in hubble type @xmath36 ( @xmath37 ) and a scatter ( @xmath38 ) comparable to those among visual classifications of different experienced classifiers .    the classification process has been performed using b - band images for pm2gc galaxies and v - band images for wings , after testing that no significant systematic shift in broad morphological classification ( ellipticals e , lenticulars s0 or late - types lt ) exists between the v and b wings images ( see calvi et al .",
    "2012 for details ) .",
    "in table  [ t2 ] we list the morphological fractions of elliptical , s0 , early - type ( ellipticals + s0s ) and late - type galaxies in each sample for galaxies with @xmath39 .",
    "the morphological catalogue is available online as table  7 in the electronic version of the journal .",
    "the different columns indicate : ( 1 ) galaxy serial number in mgc ; ( 2 ) morphot classification , see @xcite for a detailed classification scheme . here , typemor @xmath30 - 4.25 ellipticals , -4.25@xmath20typemor@xmath200 s0s , typemor@xmath400 late - types , typemor=99.0 for objects that morphot was not able to classify , mostly because suffering of edge problems .",
    "as argued by @xcite the galaxy stellar m / l ratio is a function of color according to the relation @xmath41 which is robust to uncertainties in stellar populations and galaxy evolution modeling , including the effects of modest bursts of recent star formation .    as described in @xcite using ( [ eq1 ] ) we derived the stellar masses for pm2gc and wings galaxies considering the rest frame @xmath42 color , computed from the sdss galactic extinction - corrected model magnitudes in @xmath43 and @xmath44 ( for the pm2gc ) and the observed b and v wings magnitudes , with @xmath45=-0.51 and @xmath46=1.45 for the bruzual & charlot model , solar metallicity and a @xcite imf ( 0.1 - 125 m@xmath47 ) .",
    "subsequently the masses have been scaled to a @xcite imf applying a conversion factor and then compared with other estimates obtained with different methods to verify the absence of offsets . for pm2gc galaxies we compared with masses obtained using sdss - cas magnitudes and with sdss dr7 masses ( see @xcite for details ) , while for wings galaxies the masses have been compared with those determined by the @xcite spectro - photometric model and with the sloan @xcite . in all cases",
    "the agreement is satisfactory , with no systematic offset and an rms scatter of 0.1 - 0.2 dex .",
    "the uncertainty on galaxy mass estimates is 0.2 - 0.3dex , as described in the papers listed above .",
    "since our goal is to perform a detailed analysis of the galaxy properties , we restricted to a galaxy sample complete in mass so that all types of galaxies are potentially observable above this mass .",
    "the galaxy stellar mass completeness limit was computed as the mass of the reddest galaxy at the upper redshift limit .",
    "for pm2gc the reddest color corresponding to @xmath48 is @xmath49 at our redshift upper limit @xmath50 , and the mass limit is equal to @xmath51 .",
    "the mass limit for wings is lower ( @xmath52 ) , but for homogeneity we adopted the same galaxy mass limit as for the pm2gc .",
    "the number of galaxies in the various samples above our mass limit are listed in table [ tt ] .",
    ".number of galaxies in the pm2gc and wings mass - limited samples with @xmath53 .",
    "the wings number between brackets is weighted for spectroscopic incompleteness .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in table  [ cut ] we show the median upper masses for the different simulations : they are always significantly higher than the cut - off mass observed in singles and binaries .",
    "table  [ cut ] also gives the percentages of simulations that display a cut - off mass equal or lower than the observed mass + 0.1dex .",
    "the 0.1dex is added to take into account the errors on the masses .",
    "these percentages can be seen as the probability that the low mass cut - off observed in binary and single systems is due to the small number of galaxies in the sample .",
    "this probability is always very low ( e.g. 0.3% , that is 3 out of the 1000 simulations ) .",
    "this demonstrates that even reducing the number of galaxies in groups to the same numbers of singles and binaries , we would expect to observe massive galaxies in groups .",
    "we thus conclude that effectively the cut - off mass varies with environment , and that massive galaxies can only be found in environments that correspond to more massive dark matter haloes , as also shown by previous works ( e.g. @xcite and expected from simulations @xcite ) .",
    "to summarize , at low redshift , ( 1 ) no significant difference can be found in the mfs of the general field , clusters and groups by analyzing the parameters of the schechter fits or the ks test .",
    "our results resemble those at higher redshifts of @xcite , that found a similar mf in clusters , groups and general field at @xmath54 .",
    "( 2 ) for binary systems , the ks test is inconclusive and the schechter parameters are unconstrained , hence secure conclusions can not be reached for this type of environment .",
    "( 3 ) differences have been found in the mf of single galaxies compared to other environments .",
    "the mf of singles appears steeper than the others . according to the k - s test ,",
    "the difference is statistically significant between single and group galaxies , while it is only marginally hinted by the k - s values when comparing with the binary and cluster samples .",
    "schechter fit parameters are unable to detect statistically significant differences .",
    "( 4 ) very massive galaxies are only found in the most massive environments , groups and clusters , while they are absent among single and binary galaxies .",
    "the presence or absence of such massive galaxies is unable to affect both the schechter parameters ( being @xmath55 always lower than the mass of these galaxies ) and the k - s test ( dominated by the most frequent , lower mass galaxies and unaffected by the few very massive ones ) . only a separate analysis of the mass cut - off has been able to highlight the dependence of the cut - off mass on global environment .",
    "in the previous sections we found the somewhat unexpected result that the mf is similar in different global environments , except when analyzing single galaxies separately and when studying in detail the cut - off mass .    now we attempt to examine the mf of different morphological types , to address two main questions : how the mf differs from a galaxy type to the other , and whether the mf of each given type varies with environment .",
    "we start analyzing the mfs of different morphological types in each given environment . in this case",
    ", we do nt apply any normalization to the mfs , to show which morphological type dominates in number as a function of mass .",
    "table  [ sc_par ] gives the best fit schechter parameters and fig .",
    "[ f3 ] shows the mass distributions of galaxies in each environment .        in the general field ( bottom left panel ) , the total mf is dominated by late - type galaxies at low masses ( @xmath56 ) , and by a mix of late - types and ellipticals at higher masses . instead , in the single and binary systems ( central and right upper panels ) ,",
    "it is dominated by late - type galaxies at all masses . in groups",
    "( upper left panel ) , the most numerous types at masses @xmath57 are late - types and s0s , except in the first mass bin ( @xmath58 ) where late - type galaxies are more numerous . at higher masses ,",
    "elliptical galaxies dominate in groups .",
    "the cluster environment ( bottom right panel ) stands out for its peculiarity . unlike the other environments , its main population at masses @xmath57 is composed of s0 galaxies but , as mass increases , the s0 mf sharply decreases and ellipticals start to dominate .",
    "the number of late - type galaxies is steadily lower than s0s and ellipticals at all masses . from fig .",
    "[ f3 ] it is clear that the shape of the mf depends on the morphological type in most environments .",
    "this is confirmed by the k - s test , which finds incompatible distributions for ellipticals , s0s and late - types in the general field , in groups and in clusters , with the exception of cluster s0s and late - types whose mfs are less distiguishable .",
    "these conclusions are generally confirmed by the schechter fit parameters shown in the insets of fig .",
    "[ f3 ] .    for binary system galaxies , the k - s test and the analysis of the schechter fits",
    "are inconclusive due to low number statistics , but in the plot the late - type mf appears to be significantly different from the mfs of the other types ( @xmath59 and 12.0 for ellipticals - late - types and s0-late - types , respectively ) .    for single galaxies ,",
    "the shape of the mf varies little between late - type galaxies and ellipticals , and may differ for s0s , as suggested also by the schechter fit parameters .",
    "the k - s test is always inconclusive .",
    "we note from table  6 that in all environments the s0 s @xmath60 value is significantly lower than those of ellipticals and late - types , except in clusters where the late - type @xmath60 is almost as low as that of s0s .",
    "the lowest s0 @xmath60 value is reached in the single and binary samples .",
    "the @xmath60 values of ellipticals and late - type galaxies are similar in all environments , except in clusters where the elliptical @xmath60 is significantly higher .",
    "we conclude that in general field the shape of the mf changes from one morphological type to another , but in a way that depends on global environment . the cluster morphological mfs have a peculiar behaviour , both for the mf shape of the various types and their relative numbers . in the next section",
    "we examine in detail the mf of each morphological type in different environments .      the comparison between the mass distribution of elliptical , s0 , early and late - type galaxies of general field and clusters is shown in fig .",
    "[ f8 ] .        in all cases , the k - s test is unable to detect any significant difference between general field and clusters .",
    "the analysis of the schechter parameters ( table  6 ) and the inspection of the plot , instead , reveal a few differences .",
    "ellipticals in clusters , even when excluding the bcgs , have a higher @xmath61 and a lower value of @xmath62 than ellipticals in the general field .",
    "this is due to the excess of ellipticals with masses @xmath63 in clusters compared to the field visible in the top left panel of fig .",
    "[ f8 ] .",
    "the schechter parameters for s0s in clusters and general field are instead statistically indistinguishable .",
    "we note that , given the large errorbars , the s0 schechter @xmath62 is essentially unconstrained , and a visual inspection of the plot may suggest a steeper low - mass end in clusters .",
    "when ellipticals and s0s are considered together , the early - type mf is similar in clusters and in the general field , and also the schechter parameters are compatible .",
    "the environmental variation of the mf of ellipticals seen in the top left panel gets diluted when adding them up with lenticulars , and no significant difference with environment is left when considering all early - type galaxies .",
    "looking at the numbers in the plots , one can notice that the general field consists of a similar number of ellipticals and s0s , while wings clusters are dominated by s0s .",
    "the morphological fractions are given in table  1 , and a detailed study of the variation of the morphological mix with environment can be found in @xcite .    coming to late - type galaxies , at low masses",
    "the shape of their mass function in wings is slightly flatter than in general field .",
    "as also indicated by the schechter @xmath62 parameter , there is a small relative deficit of low - mass late - type galaxies in clusters compared to the general field .    in conclusion , the only variations we are able to detect are an excess of massive ellipticals and a small deficit of low mass late - type galaxies in clusters compared to the general field .",
    "we can not exclude that , with better statistics , environmental variations of the s0 mf could be found .",
    "as for the total galaxy mfs , now we investigate the variation of the mf of elliptical , s0 , early and late type galaxies in clusters , groups , binaries and singles .",
    "[ f4 ] shows the distributions of each morphological class .",
    "subdiving our samples in both morphological type and detailed environment , the statistics get worse , and in most cases the errors on the schechter parameters become too large to draw robust conclusions . in particular ,",
    "the binary sample is always too poor to be compared with the others , and is not included in the following analysis .",
    "schechter parameters are anyway listed for completeness for all environments in table  [ sc_par ] .",
    "comparing clusters and groups , which are the two environments with the best statistics , we find small differences in the mf of ellipticals , as seen in fig .",
    "[ f4 ] , from the k - s and the schechter fits .",
    "ellipticals in the single sample , instead , show a steeper mf than those in groups and clusters , as seen in the plot and , marginally , found by the k - s for groups .",
    "the mass distribution of s0 galaxies in clusters and groups is indistinguishable on the basis of the k - s test and of the schechter parameters , although the inspection of fig.[f4 ] shows a possible steepening at low masses in clusters .",
    "the s0 mfs of single galaxies is too noisy to draw secure conclusions , but the plot is suggestive of a steep fall - off at high masses .    for the early - type mf",
    "small differences start to be appreciable between clusters and groups especially when excluding cluster bcgs : both the ks and the schechter @xmath62 show differences at the 1@xmath31 level . moreover , the differences in the mf of singles and groups are now statistically significant and differences singles - clusters are clearly visible in the plot .    finally , we consider the mass distributions of late - type galaxies .",
    "the shape of their mf is very similar in groups and singles , while in clusters there is a flattening at masses @xmath64 , corresponding to a much higher schechter @xmath62 value .",
    "this may correspond to the steepening in the mf of cluster s0s at these masses , if preferentially low - mass late - types are transformed in s0s by the cluster environment . to summarize ,",
    "the mfs of ellipticals and s0 galaxies show small differences between clusters and groups , while their distributions appear much steeper in the single galaxy sample .",
    "therefore , isolated ellipticals have on average lower masses than cluster and group ellipticals .",
    "the mass distribution of late - type galaxies is similar in all environments , except for a deficit of low - mass late - types in clusters .",
    "these environmental variations are consistent with those found in the previous section between general field and clusters , where we observed an excess of massive ellipticals in clusters compared to the general field , obviously driven by the steep high - mass fall - off of the elliptical mf in single galaxies , and the deficit of low - mass late - types in clusters .",
    "our most important result is the intriguingly weak environmental dependence of the galaxy stellar mf . above @xmath65 , the mf in the general field , and in groups  which are the dominant component of the general field  is similar to that in clusters .",
    "it is important to emphasize that our sample consists of galaxies with masses at least half of our milky way , and that stronger variations of the mf with global environment can exist at lower galaxy masses than those considered in this study .",
    "our results disagree with the conclusions of @xcite , while agree with @xcite .",
    "@xcite found a much higher @xmath66 and a much lower @xmath62 in clusters than in the general field in a sample that uses 2mass photometry and las campanas redshift survey spectroscopy , in which clusters are identified as structures with @xmath67 using a friends - of - friends algorithm .",
    "it is difficult to assess whether this difference is driven by the bcg cluster galaxies , also because the mfs are not shown in balogh et al .",
    "what we find is that their @xmath68 value ( in our units and imf ) and @xmath69 ( from their fig .  12 , for an unknown galaxy mass limit ) seem incompatible with our wings mass function .",
    "instead , @xcite , based on sdss data , studied @xmath70 clusters and found no evidence for mass segregation in clusters : excluding bcgs , using median masses and cumulative radial distributions in mass bins , they found no evidence for a mass dependence on clustercentric distance , out to @xmath71 cluster virial radii into the field .    in this paper",
    "we have analyzed the global environment .",
    "it is well known that the galaxy stellar mf depends on local environment , i.e. on local galaxy density @xcite , and this is true also for the pm2gc sample used in this paper , measuring local density to the 5th nearest neighbour , as discussed in @xcite .",
    "the fact that , within the same sample , local density effects are much more easily detectable than global environment effects suggests that the mass distribution of galaxies is more strongly depending on local scale processes than global ones such as halo mass ( see discussion in @xcite ) .",
    "a detailed comparison with the mfs expected from galaxy simulations may help clarify the origin of these differences , and is currently underway ( vulcani et al . in prep . ) .",
    "we have analyzed the low - z stellar mf of galaxies with masses @xmath72 in different global environments , from clusters , to groups , binary and single galaxies , and the general field .",
    "the main result of our work is the overall striking independence of the shape of the mf on global environment .",
    "contrary perhaps to most expectations , the mf in the general field is indistinguishable from that in clusters .",
    "the cluster and the group mfs are also very similar , with only subtle differences allowed at best .",
    "the only environment where the mf differs significantly is the sample of single galaxies , representing the lowest mass haloes containing the most isolated galaxies and comprising about one third of the general field population .",
    "the single galaxy mf is steeper , proportionally richer in lower - mass galaxies , than other environments .",
    "what varies with global environment is the maximum mass reached by galaxies : the upper mf cut - off varies from 1.6 - 3.5 @xmath73 in binaries and single systems , to 5.6 @xmath73 in groups and @xmath74 in clusters , even excluding the cluster bcgs . in line with theoretical expectactions , this indicates that the most massive galaxies are only formed in the most massive environments / haloes .",
    "we stress that a stronger dependence of the mf on environment may of course exist at lower galaxy masses than those considered in this study , and that our sample includes galaxies down to masses about half of our milky way .",
    "our results resemble those at higher redshifts of @xcite , that found a similar mf in clusters , groups and general field at @xmath54 , and a surprisingly similar evolution of the mf in clusters and the field between @xmath8 and today .",
    "their study could not discriminate single galaxies .",
    "in fact , our results are also in agreement with those at intermediate redshifts of @xcite , that found a difference in the mass function of group and isolated galaxies ( their fig .",
    "in the second part of our paper we have presented the mf of different morphological types ( ellipticals , s0s and late - types ) in different environments .",
    "we have shown how the mf changes from one type to another in each environment , and that the mass function of a given morphological type may vary with environment .",
    "the strongest environmental dependence is for the ( massive ) ellipticals , while only very small differences are observed for spirals .",
    "these findings imply that both galaxy mass and environment must play some role in establishing the distribution of morphological types we observe in the local universe .",
    "we thank joe liske , simon driver and the whole mgc team for making easily accessible a great dataset .",
    "we are grateful to the rest of the wings team for help and useful discussions .",
    "99 baldry i. k. , glazebrook k. , brinkmann j. , ivezi@xmath75 @xmath76 . , lupton r. h. , nichol r. c. , szalay a. s. , 2004 , apj , 600 , 681 baldry i. k. , balogh m. l. , bower r. g. , glazebrook k. , nichol r. c. , bamford s. p. , budavari t. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 469 baldry , i. k. , glazebrook , k. , driver , s. p. b. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , 945 baldry , i. k. et al .",
    ", 2012 , mnras , 412 , 621 ball n. m. , loveday j. , brunner r. j. , baldry i. k. , brinkmann j. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 845 balogh m.l . , christlein d. , zabludoff a.i . , zaritsky d. , 2001 , apj , 557 , 117 balogh m.l .",
    "et al , 2011 , mnras , 412 , 2303 bamford r. et al .",
    ", 2009 , mnras , 393 , 1324 bell e. f. , mcintosh d. h. , katz n. , weinberg m. d. , 2003 , apjs , 149 , 289 bell e.f . , de jong r.s . , 2001 , apj , 550 , 212 bolzonella m. et al . , 2010 , a & a , 524 , 76 brinchmann j. , charlot s. , white s. d. m. , tremonti c. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. , brinkmann j. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 1151 brinchmann j. & ellis r. s. , 2000 , apj , 536l , 77 bundy k. et al . , 2006 , apj , 651 , 120 butcher harvey . & oemler augustus . , jr . ; 1984 , apj , 285 , 426 calvi r. , poggianti b. m. & vulcani b. , 2011 , mnras , 416 , 727 calvi r. , poggianti b. m. , fasano g. , vulcani b. , 2012 , mnras , 419 , 14 cava a. et al . ,",
    "a & a , 495 , 707 cole s. et al . , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 255 couch w. j. , ellis r. s. , sharples r. m. , smail i. , 1994 , apj , 430 , 121 cross n. j. g. , driver s. p. , liske j. , lemon d. j. , peacock j. a. , cole s. , norberg p. , sutherland w. j. , 2004 , mnras , 349 , 576 dressler alan . ; 1980 , apj , 236 , 351 dressler a. , gunn j. e. , schneider d. p. , 1985 ,",
    "apj , 294 , 70 dressler a. , smail i. , poggianti b. m. , butcher h. , couch w. j. , ellis r. s. , oemler a. jr . , 1999 ,",
    "apjs , 122 , 51 driver s.p .",
    ", liske j. , cross n.j.g . , de propris r. , allen p.d .",
    ", 2005 , mnras , 360 , 81 drory n. , bender r. , feulner g. , hopp u. , maraston c. , snigula j. , hill g. j. , 2004 , apj , 608 , 742 ebeling h. , voges w. , bohringer h. , edge a. c. , huchra j. p. , briel u. g. , 1996 , mnras , 281 , 799 ebeling h. , edge a. c. , bohringer h. , allen s. w. , crawford c. s. , fabian a. c. , voges w. , huchra j. p. , 1998 ,",
    "mnras , 301 , 881 ebeling h. , edge a. c. , allen s. w. , crawford c. s. , fabian a. c. , huchra j. p. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , 333 ellis s. c. , driver s. p. , allen p. d. , liske j. , bland - hawthorn j , de propris r. , mnras , 363 , 1257 fasano g. et al .",
    ", 2006 , a & a , 445 , 805 fasano g. et al .",
    ", 2012 , mnras , 420 , 926 fasano g. et al . , accepted for publication on mnras finn et al . , 2005 , apj , 630 , 206 fontana a. et al . , 2004 , a & a , 424 , 23 fontana a. et al . , 2006 , a & a , 459 , 745 fontanot f. , de lucia g. , monaco p. , somerville r.s . , santini p. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , 1776 fritz j. et al . , 2011 , a & a , 526 , 45 gehrels n. , 1986 , apj , 303 , 336 giocoli c. , tormen g. & van den bosch f.c . , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , 386 , 2135 giodini et al . , 2012 , a & a , 538 , 104 gmez et al . , 2003 , apj , 584 , 210 guo et al . , 2011 , mnras , 413 , 101 hogg d. w. et al . , 2002 , aj , 124 , 646 hogg d. w. et al . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 585 , 5 kauffmann g. et al . , 2003 , 341 , 33 kauffmann g. et al . , 2003 , 341 , 54 kauffmann g. , white s. d. m. , heckman t. m. , mnard b. , brinchmann j. , charlot s. , tremonti c. , brinkmann j. , 2004 , mnras , 353 , 713 kovac k. et al . , 2010 , apj , 718 , 86 kroupa p. , 2001",
    ", mnras , 322 , 231 iovino a. et al .",
    ", 2010 , a & a , 509 , 40 lewis et al . , 2002 , mnras , 344 , 673 li , c. , white , s.d.m . , 2009 , mnras , 398 , 2177 liske j. , lemon d. j. , driver s. p. , cross n. j. g. , couch w. j. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 307 mercurio a. , haines c. p. , merluzzi p. , busarello g. , smith r. j. , raychaudhury s. , smith g. p. , 2010",
    ", jena.conf moster , b.p . ,",
    "somerville , r.s . ,",
    "maulbetsch , c .. , van den bosch , f.c . ,",
    "maccio , a.v . ,",
    "naab , t. , oser , l. , 2010 , apj , 710 , 903 oemler , a. , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "apj , submitted panter , b. , heavens , a. f. , jimenez , r. , 2004 , mnras , 355 , 764 peng ying - jie et al . , 2010 , apj , 721 , 193 poggianti b. m. , bridges t. j. , komiyama y. , yagi m. , carter d. , mobasher b. , okamura s. , kashikawa n. , 2004 , apj , 601 , 197 pozzetti l. et al . , 2007 , a & a , 474 , 443 pozzetti l. et al . , 2010 , a & a , 523 , 13 salpeter e.e . , 1955 , apj , 121 , 161 schechter p. , 1976",
    ", apj , 203 , 297 scodeggio m. , 2009 , a & a , 501 , 21 thomas d. , 2011 , efgt.book valentinuzzi t. et al . , 2009 , a & a , 501 , 851 van den bosch f. c. , pasquali a. , yang x. , mo h. j. , weinmann s. , mcintosh d. h. , aquino d. , 2008 , preprint , arxiv:0805.0002 van der wel a. , 2008 , apj , 675 , 13 von der linden , a. , wild , v. , kauffmann , g. , white , s.d.m . , weinmann , s. , 2010 , mnras , 404 , 1231 vulcani b. et al . , 2011 , mnras , 412 , 246 vulcani b. et al . , 2012 , mnras , 420 , 1481 vulcani b. et al . , 2013 , a & a , 550 , 58 white et al . ,",
    "a & a , 444 , 365 yang , x. , mor , h.j . , van den bosch , f.c . , 2009 , apj , 695 , 900 zabludoff a.i . &",
    "mulchaey j.s . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 496 , 39"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the galaxy stellar mass function in different environments in the local universe , considering both the total mass function and that of individual galaxy morphological types . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the mass functions of galaxies with @xmath0 in the general field and in galaxy groups , binary and single galaxy systems from the padova - millennium galaxy and group catalogue at @xmath1 with the mass function of galaxy clusters of the wide - field nearby galaxy - cluster survey at @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> strikingly , the variations of the mass function with global environment , overall , are small and subtle . </S>",
    "<S> the shapes of the mass functions of the general field and clusters are indistinguishable , and only small , statistically insignificant variations are allowed in groups . only the mass function of our single galaxies , representing the least massive haloes and comprising less than a third of the general field population , is proportionally richer in low - mass galaxies than other environments . </S>",
    "<S> the most notable environmental effect is a progressive change in the upper galaxy mass , with very massive galaxies found only in the most massive environments . </S>",
    "<S> this environment - dependent mass cut - off is unable to affect the schechter parameters and the k - s test , and can only be revealed by an ad - hoc analysis . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we show how , in each given environment , the mass function changes with morphological type , and that galaxies of the same morphological type can have different mass functions in different environments .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : formation : general  galaxies : groups environments  galaxies : stellar masses </S>"
  ]
}