{
  "article_text": [
    "the nasa dawn spacecraft was conceived to address key questions related to the _ dawn _ of our solar system , hence the name of the mission .",
    "the spacecraft was launched on the 27 september 2007 .",
    "its main destinations were asteroids vesta and ceres , the two most massive bodies in the main belt of asteroids @xcite .",
    "vesta and ceres were chosen because they are excellent targets for studying early solar system processes .",
    "they have also bore witness to 4.5  gyr of main belt evolution , with cratered terrains that allow us to glean insights into how processes like collisional evolution have shaped the asteroid belt . in this paper",
    ", we focus our attention on this aspect of main belt history , and in particular on the size - frequency distribution of small main belt asteroids ( mbas ) .",
    "small mbas , defined here as bodies with diameters less than a few kilometers , are thought to be a steady - state population of fragments made by collisional and dynamical evolution processes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the main source of small mbas are asteroid impacts , though a sizable fraction may come from mass shedding events caused by the yorp effect , a non - gravitational force that describes how the re - radiation of sunlight can spin some asteroids up to the fission limit ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the sinks for small mbas are collisions , yorp , and thermal yarkovsky drift forces , which drive many small mbas to dynamical resonances where they can escape the main belt and reach planet - crossing orbits ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "these mechanisms work incessantly to resupply the projectile populations that have struck the moon and terrestrial planets over the last several gyr .    by understanding the mbas size distribution and how it has varied over time",
    ", we can glean insights into main belt history , the physics of asteroid fragmentation , the importance of yorp - driven mass shedding events , and how much the near - earth asteroid ( nea ) population has changed over billions of years .",
    "a problem with this , however , is that the current and past nature of the mba population is only partially ( or indirectly ) constrained .",
    "for example , ground - based surveys have so far only been able to determine the mba population down to objects a few hundreds of meters in diameter ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) . to deduce the nature of the mba population at small sizes ,",
    "collisional and dynamical models have tried to use a wide array of constraints , like the number and nature of the observed main belt asteroids and asteroid families , the known near - earth asteroid population , small impact events detected in the earth s upper atmosphere and the cratering history of the moon and terrestrial planets ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this has led to many intriguing solutions , but there has been no way to verify their work .    ideally , a more direct way to infer the mba population and how it has changed is to examine the crater populations on the surfaces of main belt asteroids . a number of asteroids have been visited by spacecraft ( see table  [ tab1 ] ) . while this has led to an enormous reservoir of information on the collisional history of individual asteroids , interpreting",
    "the cratering record of these bodies is often difficult ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "many of the larger worlds ( e.g. ida , mathilde , lutetia ) have ancient surfaces , such that the spatial density of craters on their surfaces are arguably close to or perhaps in saturation , defined as a state where newly - formed craters obliterate pre - existing ones @xcite .",
    "craters on smaller asteroids , like eros , gaspra , or steins , have possibly been affected by processes like impact - induced seismic shaking that can erase small craters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for these and other reasons ,",
    "previously visited asteroids , at first glance , do not provide a clear and consistent record of the mba population .",
    "vesta offers a unique opportunity to explore the small mba population as a function of time .",
    "vesta offers several advantages over the previously mentioned asteroids explored by spacecraft .",
    "first , it is large enough that only the largest , closest impacts to the counting area are likely to produce episodes of extensive seismic shaking , unlike smaller asteroids where impacts anywhere on the surface may have global effects .",
    "second , vesta s large surface area allows for the existence of adjacent regions with very different ages , ranging from heavily cratered units in the northern hemisphere to mildly cratered units that mainly exist in the southern hemisphere .",
    "the latter regions appear to have been locally reset by relatively recent large impact events .",
    "accordingly , it is possible to study populations of craters made by small mbas well before they can reach saturation .        ' '' ''    [ cols=\"^ , < , < , < \" , ]",
    "the dawn spacecraft imaged the surface of vesta at varying spatial resolutions during the orbiting phase of its mission . in this work ,",
    "we concentrate on the low altitude mapping orbit ( lamo ) phase which lasted for 141 days , from 12 december 2011 to 30 april 2012 .",
    "the spacecraft operated at an altitude of about 210  km , resulting in an average framing camera spatial resolution of approximately 20  m / px . at this scale ,",
    "the surface of vesta appears peppered by numerous sub - kilometer craters , though only some are fresh ; the rest appear to be partially buried by regolith .",
    "most of these terrains are poorly suited to deduce the small mba population , with many close to or in saturation .",
    "in addition , many craters on these surfaces have been erased , possibly as a consequence of redistributed ejecta and/or seismic shaking episodes via large impacts .",
    "to overcome these concerns , we turn our attention to two of the youngest terrains on vesta that appear to be relatively undisturbed by post - emplacement evolution .",
    "the first one is associated with the fresh 60-km diameter marcia crater @xcite .",
    "located near vesta s equator , marcia crater is characterized by the presence of pitted terrains in the proximal ejecta and crater floor possibly made by the outgassing of volatile - rich material @xcite .",
    "marcia s ejecta blanket is very ragged as a result of mantling and partial erosion of previous topography .",
    "these characteristics make it difficult to detect sub - kilometer craters on many marcia - related units . to avoid these problems , we focused on a relatively small and smooth unit -possibly impact melt- within the rim of the marcia crater shown in fig .",
    "[ marcia_lamo ] @xcite .",
    "our crater counts are shown on the figure . in defining the crater counting unit",
    ", we were careful to stay away from high - slope terrains ( e.g. , crater walls ) because mass movements may affect the preservation of small craters .",
    "the second terrain is associated with the rheasilvia basin , a 500-km diameter impact basin that dominates the southern hemisphere of vesta ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a preliminary analysis , based on the superposed crater sfd on its floor , showed that rheasilvia s age is approximately 1  gyr @xcite .",
    "figure  [ rs_floor_ejecta ] shows two lamo images from rheasilvia s floor and its proximal ejecta blanket .",
    "a comparison between the images shows that both terrains , at a first sight , appear to be well suited for counting fresh small craters . the rheasilvia floor , however , is characterized by high slopes , while a large portion of the ejecta blanket near the rim known as matronalia rupes is remarkably smooth and flat .",
    "this indicates that the emplacement of the ejected material created a layer that may be kilometers deep , thick enough to obliterate pre - existing topography @xcite . for these reasons",
    ", we opted to measure small craters only on the ejecta blanket .    for comparison ,",
    "figure  [ nh ] shows a representative lamo image acquired in the heavily cratered northern hemisphere @xcite that has a comparable resolution to those acquired in the southern hemisphere .",
    "compared to the relatively fresh terrains shown in figure  [ rs_floor_ejecta ] , here we see a highly complex topography , with numerous multi - kilometer depressions that could be ancient impact craters largely obliterated by subsequent evolution .",
    "many of the sub - kilometer craters also look subdued or partially buried . in these terrains , we find it plausible that billions of years of cratering events have led to a quasi - steady state between crater formation and removal .",
    "the crater spatial densities determined here will be challenging to decipher , and we save them for future work .",
    "figure  [ rs_lamo ] shows all of the craters that we have mapped on the smooth rheasilvia ejecta unit .",
    "we concentrated our attention on a particular sub - region that was large enough ( and contained enough craters ) to be representative of the entire ejecta unit .",
    "the crater size - frequency distributions ( sfds ) of the units above can be compared to model size distributions of the mbas in order to derive their crater retention ages .",
    "here we use the chronology framework provided by the model production function ( mpf ) @xcite . by modeling the mba impactor flux and transforming the results using a crater scaling relationship , we can compare our crater production function to the data and solve for the surface age .",
    "this method is valid provided our mpf accurately estimates the mba population over time .    in analogy with previous work ,",
    "the impactor flux is characterized by its size - frequency distribution and impact velocity distribution .",
    "the impactor sfd is taken from the model of the main belt population of @xcite . in this work",
    ", we will also consider a second mba population derived by a recent survey of small main belt asteroids @xcite .",
    "the latter distribution is valid down to absolute magnitudes of @xmath018 , ( corresponding to a diameter of about 0.8  km for an albedo of 0.2 ) , therefore well above the range of interest for this work .",
    "we extended it towards smaller sizes ( @xmath010  m ) by linearly extrapolating the cumulative slope of -1.5 measured in the range @xmath1  km .",
    "we are aware that such distribution does not necessarily correspond to the real mba sfd , however it provides a good term of comparison . following the approach of @xcite , we derive the intrinsic collision probability between mbas and vesta @xmath2  km@xmath3yr@xmath4 , as well as vesta s impact velocity distribution ( see fig .",
    "[ vel ] ) .    for the crater scaling law , we adopted the pi - group scaling relationships of @xcite .",
    "these scaling laws allow us to estimate the diameter of a crater given the velocity ( @xmath5 ) , diameter ( @xmath6 ) , and density ( @xmath7 ) of the impactor along with the density ( @xmath8 ) and strength ( @xmath9 ) of the target .",
    "in addition to these quantities , two parameters ( @xmath10 ) account for the nature of the terrains ( hard - rock , cohesive soil , porous material ) . in this paper",
    ", we investigate both hard - rock and cohesive soils scaling laws , whose parameters are @xmath11 and @xmath12 , respectively .",
    "we assume @xmath13  g/@xmath14 and @xmath15  dyne/@xmath16 for hard - rock @xcite .",
    "the bulk silicate density of vesta is @xmath17  g/@xmath14 @xcite .",
    "an important aspect of crater formation concerns the transition from _ transient _ crater size to _ final _ crater size . during the formation of terrestrial and lunar simple craters ,",
    "this transition occurs when excavation flow has ceased and material still lining the transient crater collapses under the influence of gravity to form a breccia lens .",
    "the collapse of that material effectively enlarges the diameter of the crater slightly @xcite .",
    "the question is if this process occurs also on low - gravity asteroids .",
    "measurements of the depth to diameter ( @xmath18 ) ratio and morphology of vestan craters @xcite show that they exhibit signs of gravity - driven modifications comparable to lunar craters .",
    "this result suggests that vestan craters undergo the transient to final modification , and therefore we applied this correction in our analysis , following the approach described by @xcite . we can also perform a simple natural experiment to estimate the crater scaling relationship between small craters and mbas",
    "consider that the shape of the crater sfd on rheasilvia terrains has an inflection point near @xmath19  km .",
    "this feature corresponds to a similarly - shaped inflection point in the near - earth object sfd near @xmath20  km . at these sizes",
    ", the near - earth object sfd closely resembles that of mbas , which resupplies the neo population @xcite . taking the ratio of these two values",
    ", we get a factor of @xmath21 , the same as that predicted by our crater scaling law relationship .",
    "thus , we have increased confidence that the scaling laws used here are reasonable .",
    "using the impactor sfd , the intrinsic collisional probability and the crater scaling law described above , we derive the model production function for 1 year , mpf(1yr ) .",
    "then , we can compute absolute surface ages provided we understand both the time dependence of the impactor flux in the past and how the sfd has varied over the same time . while neither component is known a priori",
    ", modeling work suggests the mba impact rate and their sfd has been fairly constant , say within a factor of @xmath22 , for the last 3 - 3.5  gyrs @xcite .",
    "the production rate of kilometer - sized and smaller craters on the moon , which were caused by impactors derived from the mba population , also appears to have been constant over this time range @xcite .",
    "also , the match between the crater sfds on ancient lunar terrains and the current mba sfd , suggests the latter has remained unchanged over the past @xmath23  gyr @xcite , although this conclusion applies to larger impactors ( @xmath24 0.5  km ) .",
    "assuming all craters that formed on vesta s surface are retained ( i.e. , crater obliteration processes are negligible ) , the crater mpf for vesta at a time @xmath25 is given by :    @xmath26    where @xmath25 is the age ( @xmath27 is the present ) .",
    "note that equation  [ mpf_eq ] assumes a constant flux , which is a valid assumption for the young terrains under study in this work .",
    "the mpf(@xmath25 ) is used to derive the model cratering age via a best fit to the observed crater sfd that minimizes the reduced chi squared value , @xmath28 .",
    "data points are weighted according to their poisson statistics errors .",
    "the formal errors on the best age correspond to a 50% increase of the @xmath28 around the minimum value .",
    "other sources of uncertainties are neglected ( see * ? ? ? * for more details ) .",
    "figure  [ cratersfds ] ( left panel ) shows the crater sfds from figs .",
    "[ marcia_lamo ] and [ rs_lamo ] , as well as those from the rheasilvia floor @xcite .",
    "we find that marcia s smooth terrains have ten times fewer craters per square kilometer than rheasilvia s ejecta terrains , implying a significantly older age of the latter .",
    "we also find an apparent mismatch in crater spatial density between @xmath29  km craters on the rheasilvia s ejecta terrains and those on its floor .",
    "this may seem odd , given that surfaces with the same age should have the same spatial density .",
    "the likely explanation is small number statistics .",
    "indeed , fig .",
    "[ rs_lamo ] ( right panel ) shows that the counting area has an excess of large craters compared to surrounding areas , which would imply we lack statistically significant results for larger craters .",
    "figure  [ cratersfds ] ( right panel ) shows how these new data compare with previous measurements on asteroids gaspra , ida , and lutetia ( see section  1 ) .",
    "gaspra s sub - kilometer crater sfd has a cumulative slope which is roughly compatible with that observed on vesta over the same size range .",
    "this is consistent with previous suggestions that gaspra s craters are not saturated and are representative of the production population @xcite .",
    "it would also argue against the idea that its observed small craters have been strongly affected by seismic shaking given that this effect , if present , should affect smaller bodies to a larger degree than on vesta ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "moreover , the spatial density of gaspra s craters is higher than those on rheasilvia .",
    "this translates into an age of @xmath30  gyr , assuming the same crater scaling law used for vesta applies to gaspra .",
    "note that for vesta we applied a correction that transforms the transient crater size into a larger final crater size .",
    "it is not clear if such a correction should apply to gaspra given its much smaller gravity .",
    "on the other hand , crater @xmath18 ratios on gaspra @xcite are close to those found for lunar craters .",
    "it is also possible that other processes , like seismic shaking , may be more effective in producing shallow craters than gravitational collapse .",
    "if we neglect this correction , the age of gaspra would become @xmath31  gyr .",
    "gaspra is often assumed to be a representative member of the flora family , which is thought to produce many neas @xcite .",
    "accordingly , this result may have key implications for the age and evolution of the flora family .",
    "interestingly , our age estimate for gaspra is significantly older than previous estimates : @xmath32  myr by @xcite , @xmath33  myr by @xcite , and @xmath34  myr by @xcite .",
    "this difference can be understood in the light of our different assumptions .",
    "age estimates of gaspra require one to determine ( i ) the collision probability of background mbas with gaspra , ( ii ) the mba sfd , and ( iii ) the crater scaling relationship that can transform projectiles into craters slamming into gaspra . while the methods to achieve ( i ) have been known for some time ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the assumptions used for ( ii ) and particularly ( iii ) by previous works differ from those made here . for example , greenberg et al . and obrien et al .",
    "both used a crater scaling law based on early hydrocode simulations @xcite that , in some cases , assumed that the ratio between crater to projectile diameters was 20 - 30 , as large or larger than the expected value for asteroids making craters on the moon at @xmath35  km / s .",
    "more modern estimates , like those used in this paper ( holsapple and housen 2007 ; see discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , however , suggest this value may only be @xmath21 .",
    "this lower value is also consistent with an interpretation of crater sfds from ida and eros @xcite , as well as our natural experiment described above .",
    "when our code adopts the obrien et al . scaling law , we get an age of @xmath36  myr for gaspra , very close to their estimates .    the vesta and gaspra distributions both have a lower crater density than that observed on ida , which appears to be near saturation .",
    "this would explain why its crater sfd has a shallower slope than the others",
    ". a lower limit on the age of ida would be @xmath37  gyr ( obtained without considering crater obliteration processes , thus the real age is probably older ) .",
    "this age is consistent with dynamical studies , which suggest the approximate time needed for ida and other comparable - sized koronis family members to obtain their so - called `` slivan state '' spin vectors via the yorp effect is 2 - 3  gyr @xcite .",
    "curiously , the crater sfd measured on lutetia s young baetica region is not near saturation , yet it shows a shallower slope than that observed on rheasilvia ejecta terrains .",
    "@xcite suggested this could be because downslope movement of small debris may have buried some small craters ; there is observational evidence for landslides in the baetica region , and its surface has an average gravitational slope of roughly @xmath38 .",
    "figure  [ mpf ] shows the mpf - based best fit to both rheasilvia ejecta and marcia smooth unit crater sfds .",
    "the red dashed line indicates the best fit of rhesilvia floor crater sfd published in @xcite , which was calculated using the hard rock scaling law @xcite and a model mba sfd from @xcite .",
    "intriguingly , the model provides a very good fit to both sets of crater data .",
    "this implies that the mba sfd used to derive the mpf ( namely , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) works fairly well down to crater sizes of about 100  m and projectile sizes of about 10  m. it is also consistent with the shape of the mba sfd remaining roughly constant over timescales of the order of 0.1  gyr , 1  gyr , and 2  gyr , which agrees with model predictions from @xcite and lunar data @xcite .",
    "we also examined how our results were affected by the adopted crater scaling law .",
    "we found that computing an mpf using the crater scaling law for sand produced essentially the same results , in terms of quality of the fit .",
    "however , the actual value of the material strength has important implication for the age determination ( see below ) .",
    "another interesting result is that we find most of the rheasilvia floor and ejecta crater sfds fit on the same mpf , which strongly suggests they were created at the same time that the rheasilvia basin - formation event took place .",
    "interestingly , both rheasilvia floor and ejecta contain crater clusters , which , given the lack of nearby large craters , could be due to self - secondary cratering .",
    "our results , however , rule out a significant contribution of self - secondary craters to the populations of craters @xmath39  m.    similar conclusions can be drawn for the marcia crater .",
    "first of all , our mpf does a good job in fitting the observed crater sfd .",
    "if we apply the same crater scaling law used for rheasilvia ( i.e. hard rock ) , we derive an age of @xmath40  myr . for a comparison , using the cohesive soil scaling law ( and leaving the other parameters unchanged )",
    ", the age becomes @xmath41  myr .",
    "this is certainly an upper limit because it is derived using hard rock strength of @xmath42  dyne/@xmath16 .",
    "indeed , in the case of cohesive soils , a reduced strength should be considered .",
    "interestingly , using a more realistic strength of about a factor of 10 lower would give an age of @xmath32  myr , which is in agreement with the first estimate .",
    "therefore it is likely , on the basis of our current data , that marcia crater formed about @xmath43  myr ago .",
    "our results have interesting implications for main belt evolution . first , the crater sfds on the marcia and rheasilvia regions , as well as the asteroid gaspra , have approximately the same shape between @xmath44  km . given",
    "that their crater spatial densities have a wide range of values , this implies the main belt sfd for asteroid diameters between @xmath45  km has had approximately the same shape for the last few gyr .",
    "this is consistent with observations of larger impactors from lunar cratering @xcite .",
    "this outcome matches predictions made by main belt collisional evolution models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in these models",
    ", asteroid populations beat up on themselves , with catastrophic disruption events continually demolishing older asteroids and creating new fragments . in these codes , model objects can also be delivered into the terrestrial planet region by algorithms that try to account for the fact that small mbas have their orbits modified by yarkovsky thermal drift forces and resonances .",
    "overall , the model runs of bottke et al . and",
    "obrien et al .",
    "show that the mba sfd quickly develops a wavy shape and maintains this shape for billions of years .",
    "the pattern only deviates from this in runs for the occasional case where a very large main belt object is disrupted ( i.e. , something hundreds of kilometers in diameter ) .",
    "even then , the characteristic sfd quickly returns to the original equilibrium shape .",
    "an interesting question is whether the absolute number of small mbas has also remained more or less constant over billions of years .",
    "this would imply mbas were in a quasi - steady state over the same time period .",
    "note that such behavior is a common feature of the best fit runs of @xcite .",
    "although the absolute ages of cratered terrains on vesta and gaspra are unknown , we can glean insights into this issue by examining the impact history of the moon .",
    "dynamical studies and interpretations of the cratered sfds on lunar terrains suggest the main asteroid belt has been the dominant source of lunar impactors for the last @xmath04  gyr @xcite .",
    "several terrains on the lunar nearside have absolute ages that were determined directly ( and indirectly ) using samples returned by the apollo and luna missions . combining these values with measurements of the spatial density of small craters on these surfaces , it is possible to estimate the average lunar impact flux at several moments in time between the present day and @xmath03.5  gyr ago ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a recent review of these issues , as well as neukum and ivanov 1994 ) .",
    "the most straightforward interpretation of these values is that the average lunar impact flux for mba - derived projectiles has remained approximately constant ( i.e. , within a factor of 2 ) over the last few gyr @xcite .",
    "accordingly , if the lunar impact flux has not changed very much over a @xmath03  gyr interval , and nothing else important has changed regarding the delivery of small mbas to the terrestrial planet region , it is logical to think that the small mba population has remained more or less constant over this time period as well .",
    "accordingly , we predict the small mba population , on average has been near or in steady state for several gyr .",
    "note that the match obtained between model results and observations probably means the assumptions made by the collision codes are broadly reasonable ( e.g. , collision probabilities , disruption scaling laws , nature of their fragment sfds , dynamical depletion rates , etc . ) . with this",
    "said , one must be careful in how this interpretation is used ; while the results of the best fit collision models indeed match numerous constraints , they may not yet provide unique solutions .",
    "for instance , small asteroids can also lose material via the non - gravitational yorp spin - up mechanism ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "interestingly , the older collisional codes discussed above do not include this effect , yet they appear to reproduce the small mba sfd and many other constraints .",
    "this could suggest that yorp mass shedding , as a process , is secondary to other mass loss mechanisms , and that it is reasonable to neglect it when modeling the collisional evolution of the small mba sfd .",
    "it is also possible , however , that other aspects of the modeling are incorrect and are in effect compensating for the absence of yorp mass shedding .",
    "if so , a closer analysis of this mass shedding process , combined with our new crater constraints , may yield new insights into the main belt evolution @xcite .",
    "we consider this an interesting issue for future work .",
    "the apparent stability of the small mba sfd in terms of both shape and population over time is perhaps surprising .",
    "it indicates that the sources of small mbas , such as asteroid family forming events , are well balanced by the various sink mechanisms .",
    "modeling work suggests that large asteroid disruption events are capable of supplying a sizeable fraction of the total mba population for hundreds of myr to gyr timescales via a collisonal cascade @xcite .",
    "thus , at any given time , the small mba population may be dominated by fragments from several tens of large breakup events .",
    "this likely explains why the samples in our meteorite collections only appear to represent about 30 parent bodies @xcite .    in summary ,",
    "we have presented in the paper the sub - kilometer crater sfds of two young terrains on vesta .",
    "we found that these crater sfds match the estimated crater production function derived from model main belt sfds .",
    "we used the modeled crater production function to estimate the ages of our two young regions .",
    "we find an age of @xmath01  gyr for rheasilvia basin and @xmath060  myr for marcia crater . +",
    "* acknowledgments * we thank nadine g.  barlow and an anonymous referee for valuable comments that improved the manuscript .",
    "obrien thanks nasa s dawn at vesta participating scientist program .",
    "the contributions of simone  marchi , william f.  bottke and david a.  kring were supported by the nasa lunar science institute ( center for lunar origin and evolution at the southwest research institute in boulder , colorado nasa grant nna09db32a ; center for lunar science and exploration at the lunar and planetary institute in houston , texas ) .",
    ", w.  f. , durda , d.  d. , nesvorn , d. , jedicke , r. , morbidelli , a. , vokrouhlick , d. , levison , h.  f. 2005b . linking the collisional history of the main asteroid belt to its dynamical excitation and depletion .",
    "icarus 179 , 63 - 94",
    ".    bottke , w.  f. , durda , d.  d. , nesvorny , d. , jedicke , r. , morbidelli , a. , vokrouhlicky , d. , levison , h. 2005c . the origin and evolution of stony meteorites . in dynamics of populations of planetary systems ( z. knezevic , a. milani , eds ) .",
    "iau colloquium 197 , 357 - 374 .",
    "bottke , w.  f. , jr . ,",
    "vokrouhlick , d. , rubincam , d.  p. , & nesvorn , d.  2006 .",
    "the yarkovsky and yorp effects : implications for asteroid dynamics",
    ". annual review of earth and planetary sciences , 34 , 157 - 191 .",
    "bottke , w.  f. , & chapman , c.  r.  2006 .",
    "determining the main belt size distribution using asteroid crater records and crater saturation models , 37th annual lunar and planetary science conference , 37 , 1349 .",
    "britt , d.  t. , yeomans , d. , housen , k. , & consolmagno , g.  2002 .",
    "asteroid density , porosity , and structure .",
    "asteroids iii , w. f. bottke jr . , a. cellino , p. paolicchi , and r. p. binzel ( eds ) , university of arizona press , tucson , 485 - 500 .",
    "burbine , t.  h. , mccoy , t.  j. , meibom , a. , gladman , b. , & keil , k.  2002 .",
    "meteoritic parent bodies : their number and identification .",
    "asteroids iii , w. f. bottke jr .",
    ", a. cellino , p. paolicchi , and r. p. binzel ( eds ) , university of arizona press , tucson , 653 - 667 .",
    "dence , m.  r. , grieve , r.  a.  f. , & robertson , p.  b.  1977 .",
    "terrestrial impact structures  principal characteristics and energy considerations . in : impact and explosion cratering : planetary and terrestrial implications ; proceedings of the symposium on planetary cratering mechanics , flagstaff , ariz . ,",
    "september 13 - 17 , 1976 .",
    "( a78 - 44030 19 - 91 ) new york , pergamon press , inc .",
    ", 1977 , p. 247 - 275 .",
    "grieve , r.  a.  f. , dence , m.  r. , & robertson , p.  b.  1977 .",
    "cratering processes  as interpreted from the occurrence of impact melts . in : impact and explosion cratering : planetary and terrestrial implications ; proceedings of the symposium on planetary cratering mechanics , flagstaff , ariz . ,",
    "september 13 - 17 , 1976 .",
    "( a78 - 44030 19 - 91 ) new york , pergamon press , inc . ,",
    "791 - 814 .",
    "ivanov , b.  a. , neukum , g. , bottke , w.  f. , jr .",
    ", & hartmann , w.  k.  2002 . the comparison of size - frequency distributions of impact craters and asteroids and the planetary cratering rate , asteroids iii",
    ", w. f. bottke jr .",
    ", a. cellino , p. paolicchi , and r. p. binzel ( eds ) , university of arizona press , tucson , 89 - 101 .",
    "keil , k.  2002 .",
    "geological history of asteroid 4 vesta : the `` smallest terrestrial planet '' , asteroids iii , w. f. bottke jr . , a. cellino , p. paolicchi , and r. p. binzel ( eds ) , university of arizona press , tucson , 573 - 584 .",
    "kring , d.  a. , & cohen , b.  a.  2002 .",
    "cataclysmic bombardment throughout the inner solar system 3.9 - 4.0 ga , journal of geophysical research ( planets ) , volume 107 , issue e2 , pp .",
    "4 - 1 , citeid 5009 , doi 10.1029/2001je001529 .",
    "marchi , s. , massironi , m. , cremonese , g. , martellato , e. , giacomini , l. , & prockter , l.  2011 .",
    "the effects of the target material properties and layering on the crater chronology : the case of raditladi and rachmaninoff basins on mercury .",
    "planetary and space science 59 , issue 15 , 1968 - 1980 .",
    "neukum , g. , & ivanov , b.  a.  1994 .",
    "crater size distributions and impact probabilities on earth from lunar , terrestrial - planet , and asteroid cratering data , hazards due to comets and asteroids , space science series , tucson , az : edited by tom gehrels , m. s. matthews . and a. schumann",
    ". published by university of arizona press , 1994 .",
    ", p.359 .",
    "rossi , a. , marzari , f. , scheeres , d.  j. , & jacobson , s.  2012 .",
    "effects of yorp - induced rotational fission on the asteroid size distribution at the small size end .",
    "lunar and planetary institute science conference abstracts , 43 , 2095 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the nasa dawn mission has extensively examined the surface of asteroid vesta , the second most massive body in the main belt . </S>",
    "<S> the high quality of the gathered data provides us with an unique opportunity to determine the surface and internal properties of one of the most important and intriguing main belt asteroids ( mbas ) . in this paper , we focus on the size frequency distributions ( sfds ) of sub - kilometer impact craters observed at high spatial resolution on several selected young terrains on vesta . </S>",
    "<S> these small crater populations offer an excellent opportunity to determine the nature of their asteroidal precursors ( namely mbas ) at sizes that are not directly observable from ground - based telescopes ( i.e. , below @xmath0100  m diameter ) . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , unlike many other mba surfaces observed by spacecraft thus far , the young terrains examined had crater spatial densities that were far from empirical saturation . </S>",
    "<S> overall , we find that the cumulative power - law index ( slope ) of small crater sfds on vesta is fairly consistent with predictions derived from current collisional and dynamical models down to a projectile size of @xmath010  m diameter ( e.g. * ? ? ? </S>",
    "<S> * ; * ? ? ? </S>",
    "<S> * ) . </S>",
    "<S> the shape of the impactor sfd for small projectile sizes does not appear to have changed over the last several billions of years , and an argument can be made that the absolute number of small mbas has remained roughly constant ( within a factor of 2 ) over the same time period . </S>",
    "<S> the apparent steady state nature of the main belt population potentially provides us with a set of intriguing constraints that can be used to glean insights into the physical evolution of individual mbas as well as the main belt as an ensemble .    </S>",
    "<S> asteroid ( 4 ) vesta , asteroid cratering , asteroid evolution , main belt asteroids </S>"
  ]
}