{
  "article_text": [
    "osmolytes allow extremophilic microorganisms to resist harsh living conditions @xcite .",
    "typical examples for these species are ectoine and hydroxyectoine which are zwitterionic , strong water binding and low - molecular weight organic molecules .",
    "the functionalities of these molecules in living organisms among others are given by the protection of protein conformations @xcite and the fluidization of lipid membranes @xcite .",
    "the protective properties become mainly important under environmental stress conditions , e. g. high temperature , extreme dryness and salinity @xcite .",
    "several studies have identified that several combinations of osmolytes can be found in biological cells .",
    "the concentration of a single osmolyte in these mixtures varies between 0.1 to 1.0 mol / l ( @xcite and references therein ) . due to the fact that a lot of osmolytes are not affecting the cell metabolism , specific molecules like the ectoines",
    "are also commonly called compatible solutes .",
    "+ recent studies were focusing on the molecular functionality of the ectoines as well as the analysis of the protective behavior @xcite .",
    "the theoretical framework for the explanation of co - solute - solute effects has been mainly established in terms of the preferential exclusion @xcite and the transfer free energy model @xcite .",
    "+ these models focus on the strong ordering of the local water shell around the osmolytes and the exclusion from the immediate hydration shell of the solute which results in a preferential hydration behavior and a stabilization of the solutes native structure @xcite . among these ,",
    "more refined versions of theories have been in addition published which explicitly rely on the properties of chaotropic and kosmotropic behavior @xcite and the corresponding interaction with macromolecular surfaces .",
    "co - solutes which strengthen the water hydrogen network are called kosmotropes ( structure makers ) while osmolytes which weaken the water network structure are called chaotropes ( structure breaker ) .",
    "the separation of co - solutes into these two species is not unique and straightforward @xcite .",
    "interactions and binding properties between kosmotropes and chaotropes can be predicted by the law of matching water affinities @xcite .",
    "a main point of this theory is the investigation of the corresponding hydration free energies which loosely depend among other factors on the molecular charge @xcite .",
    "one of the major achievements of the law of matching water affinities is the molecular description of a repulsive behavior for kosmotropic osmolytes from polar surfaces and vice versa , the attraction of chaotropic agents like urea .",
    "the preferential binding of urea has been validated in recent computer simulations @xcite while additional studies have observed a kosmotropic behavior for ectoine in terms of a preferential exclusion mechanism around chymotrypsin inhibitor ii @xcite .",
    "+ it has been stated that kosmotropic co - solutes typically accumulate in the second or third hydration shell of the solvated macromolecule . in regards to their high charging and affinity for water molecules ,",
    "it is assumed that this appearance strongly influences the first and the second hydration shell of the polar solute .",
    "the consequence of this behavior is given by a diminished number of solute - water hydrogen bonds which is compensated by a significant shrinkage of the solute surface to maintain a constant hydrogen bond surface density .",
    "it is commonly believed that this shrinkage in size is the molecular reason for the preservation of native protein conformations in presence of kosmotropic co - solutes @xcite .",
    "+ although the stabilizing effects on proteins in presence of specific osmolytes have been studied extensively before , less is known about compatible solutes and their interactions with bilayers .",
    "a small number of theoretical studies have focused on sugars like trehalose and their interactions with lipid membranes and monolayers @xcite . for high molar concentrations of trehalose , it has been found that replacement of water molecules by the formation of additional sugar - membrane hydrogen bonds plays a major role @xcite . despite this interpretation",
    ", it has been also discussed that the effects observed in sugar - dppc mixtures can be only systematically explained by an interplay of several mechanisms @xcite .",
    "+ in addition to theoretical studies , experimental findings have indicated a significant broadening of the liquid expanded ( le ) - liquid condensed ( lc ) phase transition of monolayers in presence of ectoine and hydroxyectoine @xcite .",
    "this was mainly indicated by the study of the corresponding surface pressure area isotherms .",
    "a main result of these studies was the observation of a surface pressure increase for higher hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "in addition it was supposed that the domain sizes of the liquid condensed regions significantly shrink in presence of hydroxyectoine which corresponds to a variation of the line tension @xcite . in regrds to the biological function , the above mentioned effects are of particular important for signaling processes and cell repair @xcite .",
    "+ in regards to the preferential exclusion / binding behavior of osmolyte - solute - solvent mixtures , computer simulations allow a detailed study of the corresponding molecular mechanisms .",
    "a theoretical framework which allows to distinguish between exclusion and binding behavior has been established in terms of the kirkwood - buff theory of solutions @xcite .",
    "the corresponding analysis has been therefore successfully applied to the study of urea and polyglycine interactions @xcite .",
    "it has been shown that the calculation of the kirkwood - buff integrals allows the effective determination of transfer free energies in addition to the detection of kosmotropic as well as chaotropic behavior @xcite .",
    "+ in this paper , we study the properties of an aqueous hydroxyectoine solution in presence of dppc lipid bilayers via semi - isotropic constant pressure ( npt ) all - atom molecular dynamics simulations .",
    "the concentration of hydroxyectoine is low but physiologically relevant @xcite with a maximum value of 0.148 mol / l .",
    "we have been inspired to use these small concentrations due to recent experimental findings for aqueous hydroxyectoine - dppc monolayer mixtures @xcite .",
    "most of the simulation studies usually employ high co - solute concentrations which are often above one mole per liter to study pronounced behavior at unphysiological conditions @xcite . with this study , we are able to validate the observation of effects at smaller concentrations in agreement to experimental findings .",
    "+ our main results include the characterization of hydroxyectoine as a kosmotropic osmolyte which strengthens the water hydrogen bond network .",
    "we are further able to validate a weakening of dppc - water hydrogen bond interactions in presence of hydroxyectoine . in regards to the dppc lipid bilayer properties ,",
    "our results validate an increase of the surface pressure and the solvent - accessible surface area in agreement to the experimental results @xcite .",
    "we emphasize the importance of electrostatic interactions between co - solutes and solutes for the understanding of the observed effects by the calculation of the bilayer electrostatic potential .",
    "+ the paper is organized as follows . in the next section",
    "we shortly introduce the theoretical background . in the third section",
    "we illustrate the simulation details and the methodology .",
    "the results for the solvent properties and the dppc lipid bilayer are presented and discussed in the fourth section .",
    "we briefly conclude and summarize in the last section .",
    "the evaluation of statistical mechanics methods on the co - solvent and solvent distribution function allows important insights into the preferential exclusion as well as binding behavior in terms of the corresponding kirkwood - buff theory which has been introduced in the early 1950 s @xcite .",
    "the radial distribution function of molecules or atoms @xmath0 around solutes @xmath1 can be expressed by @xmath2 where @xmath3 denotes the local density of @xmath0 at a distance @xmath4 around the solute and @xmath5 the global density in the bulk phase @xcite .",
    "the kirkwood - buff integral is given by the integration of eqn .",
    "[ eq : rdf ] @xmath6 where the above relation is valid in the limit of @xmath7 @xcite .",
    "[ eq : kbi ] can be used to calculate the excess coordination number of molecules or atoms of @xmath0 ( hydroxyectoine ) around @xmath1 ( dppc ) via @xcite @xmath8 which allows to evaluate the preferential binding coefficient @xmath9 under the assumption of finite distances @xmath10 with @xmath11 where the indices @xmath12 represent solvent molecules while @xmath1 and @xmath0 are the solute dppc and the co - solute hydroxyectoine . a negative value for the preferential binding coefficient of eqn .",
    "[ eq : bind ] implies a preferential exclusion of hydroxyectoine from the lipid bilayer surface while a positive value indicates a preferential binding @xcite .",
    "the formation of lipid bilayers in aqueous solutions is mainly driven by the hydrophobic effect @xcite .",
    "the detailed molecular mechanism for the hydrophobic effect is still heavily under debate but it is consensus that the formation and cleavage of hydrogen bonds is of main importance @xcite . for a detailed investigation of the co - solute - solvent properties , we have analyzed the water hydrogen bond characteristics in presence of varying hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "+ we apply the luzar - chandler definition of hydrogen bonds @xcite , which restricts a maximum length of 0.35 nm between the interacting oxygen and hydrogen atom and an angle of not more than 30 degrees .",
    "the value for the life time allows an estimate of the relative strength for the corresponding hydrogen bond .",
    "this argument is inspired by results of transition state theory which connects the rate constant @xmath13 to the activation free energy @xmath14 via @xmath15 with the thermal energy @xmath16 , the forward life time @xmath17 and the planck constant @xmath18 @xcite . in terms of the underlying statistical analysis of hydrogen bonds",
    "@xcite , eqn .",
    "[ eq : rate ] reveals that longer life times correspond to larger free activation energies which indicates a strengthening of the hydrogen bond network .",
    "+ in addition to the hydrogen bond analysis , we have also calculated the dipolar reorientation time of water molecules in presence of hydroxyectoine .",
    "the evaluation of this quantity gives access to an estimation of the translational solvent entropy .",
    "it has been discussed that solvent entropies may play a significant role in contributions to the solvation free energies and therefore the exposure of hydrophilic and hydrophobic surfaces @xcite . to study this property ,",
    "we have investigated the autocorrelation time for the dipolar orientation @xmath19 between two water molecules in presence of dppc lipid bilayers and hydroxyectoine which is given by @xmath20 it can be seen that the autocorrelation function follows a stretched exponential behavior which is dependent on the exponent @xmath0 @xcite . the evaluation of the corresponding times @xmath21 allows a quantitative determination of the influence of hydroxyectoine on the water dynamics .      as it has been found out in recent experiments for dppc monolayers in presence of hydroxyectoine @xcite , a significant variation of the surface tension",
    "can be observed for increasing physiological hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "the surface tension can be calculated by @xmath22 which can be also expressed for the ease of computation by @xmath23 where @xmath24 denotes the normal pressure with @xmath25 as the z - component of the pressure tensor and @xmath26 the transversal pressure given by @xmath27 as defined by the x- and the y - components .",
    "the factor @xmath28 accounts for two interfaces in contact with water @xcite . the box length in z - direction",
    "is denoted by @xmath29 .",
    "+ the surface pressure is given by @xmath30 where @xmath31 expresses the experimental surface tension of water at 300 k ( 71.6 mn / m ) @xcite which allows a direct comparison with experiments as discussed in ref .",
    "we have performed molecular dynamics simulations in explicit spc / e water @xcite with the software package gromacs @xcite .",
    "the chemical structure of hydroxyectoine ( ( 4s,5s)-2-methyl-5-hydroxy-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine-4-carboxylic acid ) in its neutral form is presented in fig .",
    "the derivation of the force field and the topology of hydroxyectoine is in detail described in ref .",
    "@xcite where it has been also found that the zwitterionic form in aqueous solution is more stable than the neutral counterpart .",
    "we follow this finding by using purely zwitterionic molecules in our md simulations . the force field for the lipids and the starting structure with 64 dppc molecules",
    "@xcite were modeled with the parameters presented in ref .",
    "+ the molecular dynamics simulations have been carried out with periodic boundary conditions .",
    "the simulation box has initial dimensions of @xmath32 nm@xmath33 .",
    "we performed simulations with @xmath34 and 8 hydroxyectoine molecules which correspond to effective concentrations of @xmath35 and @xmath36 mol / l .",
    "electrostatic interactions have been calculated by the particle mesh ewald sum @xcite .",
    "the time step was @xmath37 fs and the temperature was kept constant by a nose - hoover thermostat @xcite at 300 k. all bonds have been constrained by the lincs algorithm @xcite .",
    "+ after energy minimization and a 10 ns constant volume simulation to ensure the conformational equilibration of the lipid molecules @xcite , we conducted a 20 ns equilibration run followed by a 30 ns semi - isotropic constant pressure ( npt ) data production simulation .",
    "a parrinello - raman barostat has been used with a rescaling time step of 2 ps . the reference pressure in the x / y- and",
    "the z - direction was 1 bar and a compressibility of @xmath38 bar@xmath39 was used .",
    "the solvent accessible surface area @xmath40 was calculated by the sum of spheres centered at the atoms of the studied molecule , such that a spherical solvent molecule can be placed in closest distance and in agreement to van - der - waals interactions by following the constraint that other atoms are not penetrated @xcite .",
    "+ hydrogen bonds have been defined as present if the distance between the interacting atoms is less than 0.35 nm and the interaction angle is not larger than 30 degrees . the hydrogen bond density which is calculated for the dppc lipid bilayers",
    "is given by the number of hydrogen bonds divided by the hydrophilic solvent accessible surface area @xmath41 .",
    "the average position and the distribution of hydroxyectoine in front of the dppc lipid bilayer can be easily determined by the evaluation of the pair radial distribution function ( rdf ) . due to the fact , that the nitrogen of dppc is slightly positively charged ( @xmath42 ) and the oxygens in the carboxy group of hydroxyectoine are negatively charged ( @xmath43 ) , we have decided to evaluate the rdf between these two atoms due to favorable electrostatic interactions .",
    "furthermore we have calculated for a comparisoon the rdf for nitrogen in dppc and oxygen in water molecules .",
    "the results for a hydroxyectoine concentration of 0.148 mol / l are shown in fig .",
    "it can be seen that the pair radial distribution function @xmath44 between dppc and hydroxyectoine reveals a significant appearance of the compatible solute at a distance of 0.35 to 0.85 nm which is in good agreement to previous assumptions @xcite .     for nitrogen in dppc ( @xmath45 ) and oxygen in hydroxyectoine ( red line ) ,",
    "respectively oxygen in water ( blue line ) for a hydroxyectoine concentration of 0.148 mol / l . [ fig1 ] ]    comparing the pair radial distribution function for the nitrogen and water oxygen to determine the position of the first hydration shell reveals that a large amount of compatible solutes are accumulated at the second hydration shell of the lipid bilayer .",
    "this can be validated by the smaller occurrence of hydroxyectoine at 0.3 nm which roughly corresponds to the peak of the first hydration shell .",
    "thus it can be concluded that direct interactions between hydroxyectoine and dppc in terms of hydrogen bonds are less important for these concentrations as it was also stated in @xcite .",
    "+ to further investigate the hydration behavior of dppc , we have calculated the water hydrogen bond density at the dppc hydrophilic solvent accessible surface area @xmath46 .",
    "we have found a nearly constant value of @xmath47 nm@xmath48 for the hydrogen bond density averaged over all hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "the results show no significant deviations concerning higher hydroxyectoine concentrations such that it can be assumed , that the concentration of the co - solutes does not affect the overall water hydrogen bond density at the dppc surface .",
    "in addition , we have evaluated the number of direct contacts between hydroxyectoine and dppc in terms of hydrogen bonds where we have found a value of @xmath49 for the highest hydroxyectoine concentration .",
    "all other values for lower concentrations are vanishing or nearly identical .",
    "compared to the number of hydrogen bonds between water and dppc and their contributions to the total energy , it can be concluded that the influence of the dppc - hydroxyectoine hydrogen bonds is nearly negligible .",
    "regarding the water - replacement theory and compared to the results of trehalose - dppc systems @xcite , it can be concluded that the reduction of the number of water molecules in front of the dppc lipid bilayer by hydroxyectoine as it has been assumed for proteins @xcite is a minor effect which has not been detected in our simulations . despite the additionally proposed diminished solvent accessible surface area @xcite , instead",
    "we have observed an increasing surface area for the lipid bilayer .",
    "we will discuss this point in more detail in the next section .",
    "+ for a detailed investigation of the preferential exclusion behavior , we have calculated the corresponding kirkwood - buff integrals @xcite .",
    "the results for the preferential binding parameter ( eqn .",
    "[ eq : bind ] ) are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] .     for distances",
    "@xmath4 up to 0.55 nm for all four concentrations in presence of hydroxyectoine . ]    it can be clearly seen that the preferential binding coefficient @xmath50 at lipid bilayer distances up to 0.55 nm is negative for all hydroxyectoine concentrations . the amount of exclusion increases with the concentration of the compatible solutes .",
    "this also clearly states that hydroxyectoine is preferentially excluded from the dppc bilayer surface due to energetic reasons @xcite .",
    "hence , the observed behavior is in good agreement to the predicted behavior for kosmotropic osmolytes @xcite .",
    "+ in the framework of recent theories , it has been stated that highly charged ions can be interpreted as kosmotropes ( structure maker ) @xcite .",
    "these molecules tend to strengthen the water - water structure by increasing hydrogen bond lifetimes .",
    "the influence of chaotropic solutes like urea on the dynamics of water - water hydrogen bonds has been investigated in ref .",
    "it was found that urea in contrast to kosmotropes decrease the strength of the water hydrogen bond network .",
    "we have analyzed the corresponding characteristics for hydroxyectoine in terms of the hydrogen bond transition state theory and the orresponding statistical analysis @xcite .",
    "the corresponding forward life times of hydrogen bonds for water - water interactions and water - dppc hydrogen bond interactions are shown in fig  [ fig3 ] .",
    "( top ) and dppc - water hydrogen bond life times ( bottom ) for increasing hydroxyectoine concentrations . ]",
    "it can be clearly seen that hydroxyectoine leads to an increase of the hydrogen bond life times in presence of higher concentrations . due to",
    "the fact that the forward life times are proportional to @xmath51 , an increase of the life times also indicates a higher activation free energy barrier @xmath14 .",
    "hence the kosmotropic properties of hydroxyectoine are obvious and can be identified by a strengthening of the water hydrogen bond network .",
    "in addition , we have observed a saturation plateau of life times for hydroxyectoine concentrations",
    "@xmath52 mol / l .",
    "the reverse behavior can be also observed for dppc - water hydrogen bonds which means decreasing life times for increasing hydroxyectoine concentrations until a saturation plateau is reached .",
    "thus , it can be concluded that the hydration properties of dppc bilayers in terms of energetic contributions are slightly disturbed in presence of low molar hydroxyectoine solutions .",
    "these findings are in good agreement to the law of matching water affinities which states that kosmotropic agents weaken the hydration behavior of polar solute surfaces @xcite . nevertheless , the pronounced influence of the dppc lipid bilayer on the water dynamics can be also observed in terms of long lifetimes as it was also discussed in a recent publication @xcite .",
    "it was mentioned that in close vicinity to the bilayer , a significant decrease of water diffusion coefficients can be validated .",
    "+ finally we have calculated the he hydrogen bond life times for hydroxyectoine and water where we have found a nearly constant values of @xmath53 ps for all concentrations .        to illustrate the importance of hydroxyectoine on the water dynamics and therefore the entropic contributions in terms of hydration behavior , we have also analyzed the water dipole reorientation times ( eqn .",
    "[ eq : mu ] ) .",
    "it has been stated that the general entropy of the water is significantly influenced by the number of intermolecular hydrogen bonds and the values for the reorientation times @xcite . by the evaluation of the water dipole autocorrelation function for each concentration",
    ", we have identified a value for @xmath0 in eqn .",
    "[ eq : mu ] of @xmath54 which validates a stretched exponential behavior in agreement to recent results and theories @xcite .",
    "the corresponding relaxation times @xmath21 for each concentration are presented in fig .",
    "we clearly observe an increase of the relaxation times in presence of hydroxyectoine which can be related to diminished entropic contributions .",
    "the direct connection between the entropy and the relaxation dynamics has been discussed in ref .",
    "@xcite in which it has been shown that the relation @xmath55 with the entropy @xmath56 is valid for several measurable relaxation times .",
    "furthermore a plateau value for hydroxyectoine concentrations of @xmath52 mol / l in agreement to the results of fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] can be also observed .",
    "thus , a strong water structure influence effect can be observed in presence of hydroxyectoine .",
    "+ to summarize the results of this subsection , we have validated that hydroxyectoine is repelled from dppc lipid bilayer surfaces in terms of a preferential exclusion behavior .",
    "this effect is in good agreement to recent theories concerning kosmotropic behavior for osmolytes . in a recent study",
    "@xcite we were able to indicate a net accumulation of roughly 8 - 9 water molecules due to electrostatic interactions around hydroxyectoine .",
    "combined with these results , the analysis of the hydrogen bond life times and the dipole reorientation times clearly reveals the kosmotropic behavior of hydroxyectoine .",
    "it has to be noted that the dynamic properties have been calculated by considering the complete number of water molecules , regardless if they interact with hydroxyectoine , dppc or with themselves .",
    "we are therefore confident that the change of global water dynamics in presence of low hydroxyectoine concentrations is a significant effect .      in recent experiments for dppc monolayers in presence of an aqueous hydroxyectoine concentration @xcite ,",
    "a broadening of the liquid expanded ( le ) - liquid condensed ( lc ) phase transition was observed .",
    "this finding for hydroxyectoine concentrations around 0.1",
    "mol / l has been validated in terms of surface pressure - area diagrams and has been compared to urea solutions where this behavior was found to be absent .",
    "+ in order to prove the experimental results , we have calculated the surface pressure for varying hydroxyectoine concentrations according to eqns .",
    "[ eq : gamma ] and [ eq : pi ] for concentrations that are comparable to the experiments .",
    "the results for the surface pressure in presence of hydroxyectoine are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] .     with @xmath57 mn / m .",
    "the presence of hydroxyectoine leads to a pressure difference of 6 mn / m for the highest concentration . ]",
    "it becomes obvious that the presence of the osmolyte leads to a significant increase of the surface pressure @xcite .",
    "the corresponding pearson correlation coefficient is given by @xmath58 which validates a linear dependence between osmolyte concentration and surface pressure .",
    "although we have studied bilayers , the evident properties of fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] are in good agreement to the experimental findings in refs .",
    "@xcite for dppc monolayers .",
    "the direct connection between the surface pressure and the surface tension @xmath12 in regards to eqn .",
    "[ eq : gamma ] also allows to validate an identical behavior as it has been observed for trehalose - dppc mixtures @xcite . in regards to the presence of unfavorable environmental conditions for extremophilic organisms ,",
    "the observed effect is advantageous due to the fact that it leads to a fluidization of lipid membranes .",
    "it has been discussed in ref .",
    "@xcite that the enhanced flexibility of membranes facilitates cell repair and signal transport . + as an additional property",
    ", we have calculated the solvent accessible surface area ( sasa ) .",
    "it can be assumed that a less rigid bilayer coincides with an increasing solvent accessible surface area .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "it can be seen that a small increase of the total sasa @xmath40 for higher hydroxyectoine concentrations is evident . although the overall amount of this increase compared to the total area",
    "is small ( @xmath59 nm@xmath60 compared to @xmath61 nm@xmath62 ) , the general behavior follows a monotonous increase with a pearson correlation coefficient of @xmath63 .",
    "we have also calculated the ratio of the hydrophilic sasa @xmath46 , where only the polar regions of the molecules are taken into account to the total sasa @xmath40 .",
    "the results are shown in the inset of fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] . a linear increase for this quantity can be also identified .",
    "the observed behavior can be brought into agreement with the increased surface pressure as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] , due to the fact that the hydrophilic regions form the interface with the hydroxyectoine solution .",
    "we therefore propose that this effect accounts for an increased fluidization of the lipid bilayer in agreement to recent experiments @xcite .",
    "+ in contrast to the proposed decreased solvent accessible surface for polar protein surfaces in presence of kosmotropes @xcite , we have observed the opposite trend for dppc bilayers .",
    "the difference between molecular complex surfaces like membranes with a more flexible surface area compared to a single molecular surface may be responsible for this observation . +     to the total solvent accessible surface area @xmath40 .",
    "]    finally we have calculated the electrostatic potential for the dppc lipid bilayer in presence of varying hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "the results are presented in fig .",
    "it can be seen that for higher hydroxyectoine concentrations an increase of the dppc electrostatic potential can be additionally observed .",
    "the general trend is obvious although a deviation for the concentration @xmath64 can be identified which can be related to a slight asymmetric potential distribution compared to the other concentrations .",
    "however , these findings are in agreement to a recent publication @xcite , where it has been found that electrostatic contributions play a significant role for the internal organization of lipid bilayers .",
    "it can be assumed that the strong zwitterionic charges of hydroxyectoine interact with the nitrogen atoms and the phosphate groups in dppc . due to the fact that the electrostatic potential has been calculated by integrating over the charges within a slice ,",
    "we propose that the accumulation of charged groups at the interface accounts for this observation . this reason has been also discussed in a recent publication @xcite , where the strong dependence of the electrostatic potential on the local ordering and the packing fraction has been pointed out . although the authors have remarked , that the molecular origin for the varying potential remains controversial , a strong dependence between local ordering of the lipid molecules and the resulting electrostatic potential has been proposed .",
    "we are therefore confident that the observed behavior validates the ordering effect of lipid bilayers in presence of low hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "hence , it has to be stated that only a combination of many effects may explain the observed characteristics as it has been also proposed in ref .",
    "@xcite .     for the dppc lipid bilayer in presence of varying hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "molecular dynamics simulations of dppc lipid bilayers in presence of hydroxyectoine have been performed .",
    "we have analyzed the properties of the aqueous solution for low concentrations of hydroxyectoine .",
    "our results have clearly revealed that the presence of hydroxyectoine results in a strengthening of the water hydrogen bond network due to increased forward life times . due to the fact that the life times are related to the activation free energy barriers , we propose that the water hydrogen bond network is strengthened in presence of hydroxyectoine .",
    "although we have simulated very low concentrations of hydroxyectoine , all observed effects are clearly visible .",
    "thus , we were able to show that specific cosolute - water - solute effects can be even observed at low physiological concentrations in agreement to recent experimental findings .",
    "furthermore we have shown that the presence of hydroxyectoine leads to a energetic decrease of the hydrogen bond network between dppc and water molecules in terms of slightly decreased forward life times .",
    "these findings are in good agreement to previous literature results for kosmotropic properties in solution . summarizing the results for the co - solute - solvent interactions",
    ", it can be concluded that hydroxyectoine can be interpreted as a typical kosmotropic osmolyte . + as a further characteristic property , it has been often proposed that kosmotropic cosolutes are preferentially excluded from polar surfaces @xcite .",
    "the preferential binding coefficient in our simulations has been calculated by the kirkwood - buff theory and indicates a preferential exclusion behavior for hydroxyectoine in presence of dppc bilayers .",
    "thus , our findings are in good agreement to recent theories .",
    "the distance between the hydrophilic head groups of dppc and the carboxy group of hydroxyectoine has been determined to fluctuate around 0.5 nm .",
    "this value is in agreement to recent conclusions @xcite and roughly corresponds to the position of the second hydration shell . + in regards to the results for the dppc lipid bilayer , we have indicated an increase of the surface pressure for higher hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "these results are also in good agreement to recent experimental findings for dppc monolayers .",
    "we propose that the increase of the surface pressure in presence of hydroxyectoine which has been observed in our simulations is responsible for the experimentally observed broadening of the le / lc phase transition in monolayers .",
    "the slight swelling of the dppc bilayer has been also identified by an increased solvent accessible surface area . in terms of electrostatic interactions ,",
    "we have observed that an increased electrostatic potential can be estimated for higher hydroxyectoine concentrations .",
    "the molecular origin of this effect is not clear , but it was proposed that the local ordering of the dppc molecules contributes a significant amount to this observation @xcite .",
    "it can be therefore assumed that further contributions may also contribute significantly to the fluidization of membranes in addition to pure hydration effects .",
    "+ in summary , we have shown that the usage of small concentrations of co - solutes in computer simulations will lead to observable effects in agreement to recent experiments .",
    "the presence of hydroxyectoine as a typical kosmotropic co - solute results in an increased surface pressure for dppc bilayers which accounts for the experimentally observed broadening of the le / lc phase transition .",
    "the authors thank davit hakobyan and oliver rubner for enlightening discussions and helpful remarks . financial support by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) through the sfb 858 and the transregional collaborative research center trr 61 is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "99 g. lentzen , t. schwarz t , extremolytes : natural compounds from extremophiles for versatile applications , appl .",
    "72 ( 2006 ) 623 - 634 r. graf , s. anzali , j. buenger , f. pfluecker , h. driller h , the multifunctional role of ectoine as a natural cell protectant , clinics in dermatology 26 ( 2008 ) 326 - 333 i. yu , m. nagaoka , slowdown of water diffusion around protein in aqueous solution with ectoine , chem .",
    "( 2004 ) 316 - 321 i. yu , y. jindo , m. nagaoka , microscopic understanding of preferential exclusion of compatible solute ectoine : direct interaction and hydration alteration , j. phys .",
    "b 111 ( 2007 ) 10231 - 10238 j. smiatek , r. k. harishchandra , o. rubner , h .- j .",
    "galla , a. heuer , properties of compatible solutes in aqueous solution , biophys . chem . 160",
    "( 2012 ) 62 - 68 .",
    "r. k. harishchandra , s. wulff , g. lentzen , t. neuhaus , h .- j.galla , the effect of compatible solute ectoines on the structural organization of lipid monolayer and bilayer membranes , biophys .",
    "( 2010 ) 37 - 46 r. k. harishchandra , a. k. sachan , a. kerth , g. lentzen , t. neuhaus , h .- j .",
    "galla , compatible solutes : ectoine and hydroxyectoine improve functional nanostructures in artificial lung surfactants bba biomembranes 1808 ( 2011 ) 2830 - 2840 s. knapp , r. ladenstein , e. a. galinski , extrinsic protein stabilization by the naturally occurring osmolytes beta - hydroxyectoine and betaine , extremophiles 3 ( 1999 ) 191 - 198 p. h. yancey , organic osmolytes as compatible , metabolic and counteracting cytoprotectants in high osmolarity and other stresses , j. exp .",
    "( 2005 ) , 2819 - 3830 s. n. timasheff , protein hydration , thermodynamic binding , and preferential hydration , biochemistry 41 ( 2002 ) 13473 - 13482 d. w. bolen , g. d. rose , structure and energetics of the hydrogen - bonded backbone in protein folding , annu .",
    "77 ( 2008 ) , 339 - 362 k. d. collins , charge density - dependent strength of hydration and biological structure , biophys .",
    "j. 72 ( 1997 ) 65 - 76 .",
    "k. d. collins , ions from the hofmeister series and osmolytes : effects on proteins in solution and in the crystallization process , methods 34 ( 2004 ) , 300 - 311 .",
    "k. d. collins , g. w. neilson , j. e. enderby , ions in water : characterizing the forces that control chemical processes and biological structure , biophys .",
    "( 2007 ) , 95 - 104 .",
    "p. lo nostro , b. w. ninham , hofmeister phenomena : an update on ion specificity in biology , chem .",
    "112 ( 20012 ) , 2286 - 2322 d. horinek , r. r. netz , can simulations quantitatively predict peptide transfer free energies to urea solutions ?",
    "thermodynamic concepts and force - field limitations , j. phys .",
    "a 115 ( 2011 ) 6125 - 6136 a. k. sum , r. faller , j. j. de pablo , molecular simulation study of phospholipid bilayers and insights of the interactions with disaccharides , biophys . j. 85 ( 2003 ) 2830 - 2844 c. s. pereira , r. d. lins , i. chandrasekhar , l. c. g. freitas , p. h. hnenberger , interaction of the disaccharide trehalose with a phospholipid bilayer : a molecular - dynamics study , biophys .",
    "j. 86 ( 2004 ) 2273 - 2285 a. skibinsky , r. w. venable , r. w. pastor , a molecular dynamics study of the response of lipid bilayers and monolayers to trehalose , biophys .",
    "j. 89 ( 2005 ) 4111 - 4121 c. s. pereira , p. h. hnenberger , interaction of the sugars trehalose , maltose and glucose with a phospholipid bilayer : a comparative molecular dynamics study , j. phys .",
    "b 110 ( 2006 ) 15572 - 15581 s. leekumjorn , a. k. sum , molecular simulation study of structural and dynamic properties of mixed dppc / dppe bilayers , biophys . j. 90 ( 2006 ) 3951 - 3965 c. s. pereira , p. h. hnenberger , the effect of trehalose on a phospholipid membrane under mechanical stress , biophys . j. 95 ( 2008 ) 3525 - 3534 .",
    "b. a. c. horta , l. peric - hassler , p. h. hnenberger , interaction of the disaccharides trehalose and gentiobiose with lipid bilayers : a comparative molecular dynamics study , j. mol .",
    "29 ( 2010 ) 331 - 346 a. j. garca - saez , s. chiantia , p. schwille , effect of line tension on the lateral organization of lipid membranes , j. bio .",
    "( 2007 ) 33537 - 33544 m. c. heinrich , i. levental , h. gelman , p. a. janmey , t. baumgart , critical exponents for line tension and dipole density difference from lipid monolayer domain boundary fluctuations , j. phys .",
    "b 112 ( 2008 ) 8063 - 8068 e. ruckenstein , on the nature of the liquid expanded liquid condensed phase transition in monolayers of polar molecules , j. colloid int .",
    "196 ( 1997 ) 313 - 315 j. g. kirkwood , f. p. buff , the statistical mechanical theory of solutions .",
    "i. , j. chem .",
    "( 1951 ) 774 - 777 a. ben - naim , statistical thermodynamics for chemists and biochemists , plenum press , new york ( 1992 ) b. m. baynes , b. l. trout , proteins in mixed solvents : a molecular - level perspective , j. phys .",
    "b. 107 ( 2003 ) 14058 - 14067 a. leach , molecular modeling : principles and applications , prentice - hall , new york , 2001 p. ball , water as an active constituent in cell biology , chem .",
    "108 ( 2008 ) , 74 - 108 a. luzar , d. chandler , hydrogen - bond kinetics in liquid water , nature 379 ( 1996 ) 55 - 57 a. luzar , resolving the hydrogen bond dynamics conundrum . j. chem .",
    "113 ( 2000 ) 10663 - 10675 d. van der spoel , p. j. van maaren , p. larsson , n. timneanu , thermodynamics of hydrogen bonding in hydrophilic and hydrophobic media , j. phys .",
    "b 110 ( 2006 ) , 4393 - 4398 a. v. finkelstein , o. b. ptitsyn , protein physics , academic press , san diego ( 2002 ) p. kumar , g. franzese , s. v. buldyrev , h. e. stanley , phys .",
    "e 73 , 041505 ( 2006 ) y. zhang , s. e. feller , b. r. brooks , r. w. pastor , computer simulation of liquid / liquid interfaces .",
    "i. theory and application to octane / water , j. chem .",
    "103 ( 1995 ) 10252 - 10266 f. y. jiang , y. bouret , j. t. kindt , molecular dynamics simulations of the lipid bilayer edge , biophys .",
    "j. 87 ( 2004 ) 182 - 192 s. baoukina , m. monticelli , s. j. marrink , d. p. tieleman , pressure - area isotherm of a lipid monolayer from molecular dynamics simulations , langmuir 23 ( 2007 ) 12617 - 12623 s. baoukina , s. j. marrink , d. p. tieleman , lateral pressure profiles in lipid monolayers , faraday discuss .",
    "144 ( 2010 ) 393 - 409 n. a. lange , a. j. dean , lange s handbook of chemistry , mcgraw - hill , new york , 1973 h. j. c. berendsen , j. r. grigera , t. p. straatsma , the missing term in effective pair potentials , j. phys .",
    "91 ( 1987 ) 6269 - 6271 h. j. c. berendsen , d. van der spoel d. , r. van drunen , gromacs : a message - passing parallel molecular dynamics implementation , comp .",
    "91 ( 1995 ) 43 - 56 b. hess , c. kutzner , d. van der spoel , e. lindahl , gromacs 4 : algorithms for highly efficient , load - balanced , and scalable molecular simulation , j. chem .",
    "theory comput . 4 ( 2008 ) 435 - 447 d. van der spoel , e. lindahl , b. hess , g. groenhof , a. e. mark , h. j. c. berendsen , gromacs : fast , flexible and free , j. comp . chem .",
    "26 ( 2005 ) 1701 - 1718 ( accessed june 21st , 2012 ) o. berger , o. edholm , f. jhnig , molecular dynamics simulations of a fluid bilayer of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine at full hydration , constant pressure , and constant temperature , biophys . j. 72 ( 1997 ) 2002 - 2013 u. essman , l. perela , m. l. berkowitz , t. darden , h. lee , l. g. pedersen , a smooth particle mesh ewald method , j. chem .",
    "103 ( 1995 ) 8577 - 8593 d. frenkel , b. smit , understanding molecular simulation , academic press , san diego , 1996 b. hess , h. bekker , h. j. c. berendsen , j. g. e. m. fraaije , lincs : a linear constraint solver for molecular simulations , j. comp .",
    "( 1997 ) 1463 - 1472 f. eisenhaber , p. lijnzaad , p. argos , c. sander , m. scharf , the double cubic lattice method : efficient approaches to numerical integration of surface area and volume and to dot surface contouring of molecular assemblies , j. comp .",
    "( 1995 ) 273 - 284 a. debnath , b. mukherjee , k. g. ayappal , p. k. maiti , s .-",
    "lin , entropy and dynamics of water in hydration layers of a bilayer , j. chem .",
    "( 2010 ) , 1747041 - 17470414 f. bencivenga , a. cimatoribus , a. gessini , m. g. izzo , and c. masciovecchio , temperature and density dependence of the structural relaxation time in water by inelastic ultraviolet scattering , j. chem .",
    "131 ( 2009 ) , 1445021 - 1445028 i. levental , p. a. janmey , a. cebers , electrostatic contribution to the surface pressure of charged monolayers containing polyphosphoinositides , biophys .",
    "j. 95 ( 2008 ) 1199 - 2005 d. t. warshaviak , m. j. muellner , m. chachisvilis , effect of membrane tension on the electric field and dipole potential of lipid bilayer membrane , biochimica et biophysica acta 1808 ( 2011 ) , 2608 - 2617"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the influence of hydroxyectoine on the properties of the aqueous solution in presence of dppc lipid bilayers is studied via semi - isotropic constant pressure ( npt ) molecular dynamics simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the solvent - co - solute behavior in terms of kirkwood - buff integrals as well as hydrogen bond life times for an increasing hydroxyectoine concentration up to 0.148 mol / l . </S>",
    "<S> the observed preferential exclusion mechanism identifies hydroxyectoine as a kosmotropic osmolyte . </S>",
    "<S> our findings in regards to the dppc lipid bilayer indicate an increase of the surface pressure as well as the solvent accessible surface area in presence of higher hydroxyectoine concentrations . </S>",
    "<S> the results are in agreement to the outcome of recent experiments . with this study , we are able to validate the visibility of co - solute - solute - solvent effects for low and physiologically relevant osmolyte concentrations .    </S>",
    "<S> osmolytes , molecular dynamics simulations , dppc lipid bilayers , kosmotropes , preferential exclusion , kirkwood - buff theory </S>"
  ]
}