{
  "article_text": [
    "the electronic properties of impurities in semiconductors are a topic of great interest both in basic science and in technology .",
    "ideally one would like to predict if and how a given impurity atom can be incorporated into a semiconductor , and whether it will be electronically active as a donor or acceptor .",
    "the answers to these questions are provided by the formation energy of the impurity ( at least if sample preparation is close to thermodynamic equilibrium ) , and by the so - called charge transfer level , i.e. , the position of the fermi level in the electronic band gap for which two charge states of the impurity are equally probable thermodynamically .",
    "hence , one would like to have a theoretical method at hand that allows one to accurately predict on the same footing the formation energy and the spin multiplicity of charged impurity levels as well as the energetics of the charge transfer .",
    "first - principles methods using density functional theory ( dft ) have brought us a big step further towards this goal , in particular when charge transfer levels are derived from total energy differences rather than from kohn - sham levels , but they still fall short of providing a complete and reliable description of the electronic properties . the problem is exacerbated in wide - gap semiconductors where conventional dft methods often severely underestimate the band gap , and thus make the determination of charge transfer levels unreliable . here , we consider as a particular example the nitrogen impurity in zno , which has been studied thoroughly in experiment @xcite and may serve as a reference system that illustrates the typical difficulties encountered .",
    "originally , n on the oxygen site ( n@xmath0 ) was thought to be a promising candidate for achieving @xmath1-type doping in zno @xcite , but there is growing evidence at present that , in fact , it acts as a deep level .",
    "this change of view was promoted both by experimental evidence @xcite and by calculations using hybrid functionals @xcite and using slater transition state method @xcite , which yield a deep charge transfer level @xmath2 , in contrast to more traditional dft calculations within the generalized gradient approximation ( gga ) that indicated a level 0.30.4  ev above the valence band @xcite . as shown in a comparative study by goston and albe @xcite ,",
    "while hybrid functionals seem to remedy many of the problems of conventional dft calculations of wide - gap semiconductors ( in particular , they give values of the band gap close to the experimental ones ) , there are still open issues : one question concerns the fraction of exact exchange to be mixed in , taking into account that not only the position of the charge transfer level , but also the formation energy of the impurity from atomic or molecular sources should be reproduced correctly .",
    "moreover , the use of hybrid functionals is associated with considerable computational costs , in particular when a plane - wave basis set is used .",
    "hence , computationally cheaper alternatives are sought for .",
    "the oxygen - derived valence bands in zno are in gga too high in energy due to erroneously strong hybridization with the zn @xmath3 levels . the first idea coming to mind",
    "is a gga+u correction  @xcite , which pushes down the occupied zn @xmath3-levels , in agreement with recent photoemission studies @xcite .",
    "in addition to the gga+u correction on the zn @xmath3 state , recently , a hole - state potential of @xmath4 is introduced to correct the o @xmath5 and n @xmath5 levels  @xcite .",
    "the reference occupation @xmath6 is determined by the occupation of the @xmath1 orbitals of the of anion in the absence of holes . the correction term @xmath7 is selected in such a way as to be consistent with koopman s theorem , i.e.",
    ", one is trying to enforce a linear relationship between the energetic position and the filling factor of an atomic level after applying the hubbard - u - type correction . then , unoccupied @xmath1 levels , having an occupancy @xmath8 smaller than @xmath6 , are pushed upward . yet",
    "another approach , also due to lany , raebiger and zunger @xcite , aims at corrections of the band edges of zno by applying an additional non - local external potential ( nlep ) to the zn @xmath9 and @xmath3 as well as to the o @xmath5 orbitals . in contrast to gga+u and hole - state potential methods , the corrections applied in nlep are independent of the occupation in the atomic sub - level ,",
    "i.e. they apply equally to occupied and unoccupied states . in the present study , both the long - known gga+u as well as the nlep approach",
    "are discussed under the notion of ` empirical correction schemes ' , since they allow the calculation of results in better agreement with experiment at computational costs comparable to plain gga , at the price of introducing parameters that are material - specific , but can be determined empirically for each material under study .",
    "we perform spin - polarized dft calculations within the gga ( pbe functional  @xcite ) , the generalized kohn - sham scheme ( hse and pbe0 functionals  @xcite ) , and various empirical correction schemes ( gga+u  @xcite and nlep  @xcite methods ) using the software package vasp  @xcite .",
    "a supercell of @xmath10 zno elementary unit cells ( zn@xmath11o@xmath11 ) is selected for the host material , and a monkhorst - pack * k*-point mesh of @xmath12 is used for the integration over the brillouin zone of the supercell .",
    "this supercell , for which the computational demand is still manageable , also serves us as a benchmark to compare the performance of different density functionals . to test the dependence of the defect properties on the supercell size",
    ", we also use @xmath13 and @xmath14 zno elementary unit cells ( zn@xmath15o@xmath15 and zn@xmath16o@xmath16 ) for selected methods . for the gga and the empirical correction methods ,",
    "the wave functions are expanded in the plane wave basis set up to a kinetic energy of 400  ev . for hybrid functionals ,",
    "the cut - off energy is reduced to 300  ev for speeding up the computations . even with this reduced basis set , the computer time consumed by the hybrid functional calculations is several hundred times bigger than the time used for the conventional gga calculations .",
    "the calculations are carried out with a number of different methods , labelled m-1 to m-9 in the following .",
    "the parameters applied for each calculation method are listed in table  [ tab : method ] . the gga calculation ( m-1 )",
    "uses no additional parameters apart from those specified in the definition of the functional @xcite .",
    "in addition to the widely used gga - pbe , we have employed hybrid functionals with screened fock exchange ( m-2 and m-3 ) and without such screening ( m-4 ) for a better description of the electronic band gap . in the screened hybrid calculations , two values for the mixing - in of the fock term",
    "are chosen . the method m-2 uses the originally suggested amount of exact exchange ( 25% )  @xcite , and m-3 uses 36% , bringing the band gap of pure zno into better agreement with experiment .",
    "as indicated by burke @xcite , the m-3 can be also considered an empirical scheme , because of the material specific adjustment for a better agreement with the experimental band gap .",
    "while the lattice parameters of the supercell and the internal coordinates of the atoms have been optimized in the calculations in general , we have tested separately the effect of internal relaxations and of the supercell size in the case of the gga+u scheme .",
    "this is of interest because many researchers choose to apply the gga+u method as a correction scheme merely applied to the electronic structure on top of a geometry calculated by another scheme or adopted from experiment .",
    "the gga+u calculations are performed with three parameter sets ( m-5 , m-6 and m-7 ) .",
    "the m-5 and m-6 calculations commonly use the pbe lattice constant @xmath17 with fixed atoms at the pbe configuration ( m-5 ) or fully relaxed atoms ( m-6 ) . for m-7 , we optimized both the lattice constant and the atomic positions . in the nlep calculations , the parameters from ref",
    "are employed .",
    "since nlep applies a non - local correction to the o @xmath5 orbitals , the question arises if such a correction should also be applied to the n @xmath5 orbitals .",
    "we test both possibilities : in m-8 , no corrections are made to the n atom potential , while in m-9 the same corrections as applied to the o atom are also made to n atom potential .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     for a systematic overview of the charge transfer levels as obtained from the different methods , we employ the zn@xmath11o@xmath11 cell . in fig .",
    "[ fig : charged ] , the @xmath2 and @xmath18 levels obtained from the various functionals and correction schemes are displayed .",
    "the values of @xmath2 listed in table  [ tab : eform ] quote the charge transfer level with respect to the valence band edge @xmath19 , as obtained within each method .",
    "thus , one needs a consistent scheme to compare energy levels obtained from different methods .",
    "two approaches are mostly used in the literature : in fig .",
    "[ fig : charged]a , the vacuum levels as obtained from each method are aligned , as described in section  [ sec : computational ] . as a simpler alternative , in fig .",
    "[ fig : charged]b the band edges in each method are taken directly from the calculated ( generalized , in case of m-2 , m-3 , and m-4 ) kohn - sham energy levels without any further alignment . using the first , more elaborate approach , we notice that the charge transfer levels @xmath2 in methods m-1 to m-7 are not as different as one might have expected ; they all fall into an energy interval of 0.45  ev @xcite .",
    "this energy interval is somewhat larger ( 0.68  ev ) if the simpler approach is used .",
    "the nlep method ( m-8 and m-9 ) must be considered separately , as it attempts to correct the band gap only , but not the positions of the valence band edge .",
    "we note that the energetic position of the valence band ( vb ) and conduction band ( cb ) edges display much stronger variations from one method to the other than the charge transfer levels .",
    "this is because the charge transfer levels have been determined from dft total energies that are less susceptible to the self - interaction error in dft , whereas the band edges are taken from ( possibly re - aligned ) kohn - sham eigenvalues .",
    "different from the total energy , the latter are not variational with respect to the charge density , and are sensitive to the specific division between kinetic and potential energy of the electrons inherent to each method .    while the absolute value of the acceptor level varies considerably from method to method , the relative position within the band gap is rather similar ( cf .",
    "table  [ tab : eform ] ) . due to the difficulty in determining band edges in dft",
    ", the @xmath2 charge transfer level erroneously appears as a level close to the valence band edge in pbe ( m-1 ) , only about 0.4  ev above the vb edge , whereas all other methods indicate @xmath2 to be a deep level .",
    "the highest absolute value of 1.46  ev is obtained using hse with a value of @xmath20 ( m-3 ) , in agreement with a previous hse calculation  @xcite . from the other methods tested ,",
    "only pbe0 ( m-4 ) and nlep ( m-8 and m-9 ) arrive at a value larger than 1  ev .",
    "the variants of the gga+u method ( m-5 , m-6 and m-7 ) give the correct trend , i.e. a deeper charge transfer level than in plain gga , but in these methods the vb edge is still too high , and thus the charge transfer level appears too close to the vb edge .",
    "for comparison with experiment , the measured threshold for photoluminescence excitation of 2.4  ev  @xcite or 2.22  ev  @xcite should be used to determine the position of @xmath2 relative to the cb edge . allowing for a correction of @xmath21  ev for relaxation effects ( see ref .  ) , one arrives at an estimate of 1.1  1.3  ev for the position of @xmath2 relative to the vb edge . in our judgement , the best agreement with the experimental results",
    "is obtained with the pbe0 functional ( m-4 ) , with the computationally much more affordable nlep method ( m-8 ) yielding results of comparable quality .     and",
    "@xmath2 charge transfer levels of the n@xmath22 impurity in zno .",
    "the band edges are given with respect to the vacuum level in a ) , and are taken directly the from ( generalised ) kohn - sham levels in b ) . ]",
    "it is interesting to observe that , apart from pbe , all methods also find the @xmath18 charge transfer level in addition to @xmath2",
    ". moreover , in the hybrid functionals ( m-2 , m-3 and m-4 ) , the energy range where the neutral n@xmath0 is stable turns out to be very limited .",
    "this range is smallest in pbe0 ( m-4 ) , i.e. , for an admixture of unscreened fock exchange , and becomes larger in the hse functionals where fock exchange is screened , growing with decreasing value of the mixing parameter @xmath23 .",
    "in contrast , the gga+u and the nlep methods place the @xmath18 charge transfer level close to the vb edge . the positively charged n@xmath0 impurity , which lacks two electrons compared to the closed - shell o@xmath24 ion , is found to be a spin triplet , in accordance with hund s rule , in all these methods . we note that a triplet state has been observed in n - doped samples e.g. in the green emission at 2.5 ev in optically detected magnetic resonance @xcite .    from a practical perspective , the energetic position of the @xmath18 charge transfer level is important for assessing the role of n@xmath0 impurities in samples where @xmath1-type doping has been achieved in some other way ( e.g. , by @xmath25 complexes , see ref .  ): if the fermi energy is brought below the @xmath18 level , this level will act as a ` hole trap ' , i.e. it will reduce the number of holes in the vb that can be delivered by ionization of any shallow acceptors .",
    "thus , in particular if the hybrid functionals predicted the @xmath18 correctly , n@xmath26 not only would be inoperative as an acceptor , but would even compensate other acceptors to be introduced into zno .",
    "however , we consider it more likely that the @xmath18 level is actually located rather close to the vb edge , as a recent experiment detected several candidates for donor - like hole traps below @xmath27ev by optically excited minority carrier transient spectroscopy  @xcite .",
    "the admixture of exact exchange in hybrid functionals may well overestimate the stability of high - spin states such as the n@xmath28 triplet in comparison to experiment .",
    "we have presented a comparative study of the performance of density functionals applied to the n impurity in zno .",
    "the standard gga functional has difficulties in reproducing the experimental findings of a deep @xmath2 charge transfer level and of the @xmath29-orientation of the neutral n impurity orbital , because of the severely underestimated band gap . for a good estimate of both the formation energy and the acceptor level of n@xmath26 , hybrid functionals are the best choice .",
    "in particular , pbe0 performs well in all respects , while using hse with a large ( @xmath30% ) amount of exact exchange raises the formation energy to values that appear too large . exploring the computationally inexpensive empirical correction schemes gga+u and nlep , we noticed that these schemes , in particular nlep , already improve many properties of the n impurity in the zno semiconductor , e.g. they yield a larger band gap , a deeper @xmath2 charge transfer level , and the correct orientation of the neutral n impurity orbital . however , there are also notable differences between the empirical schemes and the hybrid functional calculations , e.g. the absolute positions of energy levels with respect to vacuum .",
    "moreover , the n@xmath28 spin triplet is predicted much deeper inside the band gap by the hybrid functionals",
    ". experimental identification of this level could provide an interesting additional test for our present understanding of the electronic structure of defects in wide - gap semiconductors .",
    "the authors thank stephan lany for the nlep code and voicu popescu for valuable discussions .",
    "p.k . is grateful to the institute of pure and applied mathematics ( ipam ) for supporting his participation in the program materials defects : mathematics , computation and engineering. the authors acknowledge the center for computational sciences and simulation ( ccss ) of university duisburg - essen for computer time and the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft dfg for financial support ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> hybrid functionals and empirical correction schemes are compared to conventional semi - local density functional theory ( dft ) calculations in order to assess the predictive power of these methods concerning the formation energy and the charge transfer level of impurities in the wide - gap semiconductor zno . while the generalized gradient approximation fails to describe the electronic structure of the n impurity in zno correctly , methods that widen the band gap of zno by introducing additional non - local potentials yield the formation energy and charge transfer level of the impurity in reasonable agreement with hybrid functional calculations . summarizing the results obtained with different methods , we corroborate earlier findings that the formation of substitutional n impurities at the oxygen site in zno from n atoms is most likely slightly endothermic under oxygen - rich preparation conditions , and introduces a deep level more than 1  ev above the valence band edge of zno . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , the comparison of methods elucidates subtle differences in the predicted electronic structure , e.g. concerning the orientation of unoccupied orbitals in the crystal field and the stability of the charged triplet state of the n impurity . </S>",
    "<S> further experimental or theoretical analysis of these features could provide useful tests for validating the performance of dft methods in their application to defects in wide - gap materials . </S>"
  ]
}