{
  "article_text": [
    "recent years , the cherenkov effect for electrons at energies below 511kev has become subject of investigations for improving the time resolution of time of flight positron emission tomography ( tof - pet ) @xcite . the extent of improvement in coincidence time resolution ( ctr ) of pet and , thus , in signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) is promising and has been investigated in detail in ref . @xcite .    in inorganic scintillators , optical photons are emitted following the interaction of a 511kev annihilation photon with the scintillator , leaving an inner shell hole and an energetic primary electron , followed by a cascade of energy relaxation processes : radiative ( secondary x - rays ) and non - radiative decay ( auger processes ) , inelastic electron - scattering in the lattice , thermalization , electron@xmath0phonon interactions , trapping of electrons and holes and energy transfer to luminescent centers .",
    "all of them are introducing additional time spread to the emission of scintillation photons @xcite .",
    "most of these processes are irrelevant for the cherenkov photons , since their emission takes place in the early stages of the relaxation cascade ( in the phase of electron scattering ) and , thus , provide a more precise time stamp compared to scintillation photons .",
    "the kinetic energy of electrons after photoelectric interaction with 511kev photons is dependent on their binding energy in the material and ranges from about 450kev-510kev , being sufficiently high for the emission of cherenkov photons .",
    "a short rise time is one key - parameter for good time resolution of scintillators and is subject of investigations in tof - pet @xcite .",
    "this work focuses on the time distribution of both , scintillation and cherenkov photons , i.e. , their creation time inside the crystal and their arrival time at the photon detector .    in the following ,",
    "results of calculations and geant4 @xcite simulations on the yield of cherenkov photons , their angular distribution , their influence on the observable rise time and their absorption inside the scintillators will be shown .",
    "finally , results of measurements of a basic coincidence setup using lead glass as emitter of cherenkov radiation will be presented .",
    "3mm@xmath13 mm , the photon detector attached has a sensitive surface of 3mm@xmath13 mm . ]",
    ".input values for calculations and simulations .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     as mentioned in the previous section , the ratio of cherenkov and scintillation yield might be optimized by adjusting the amount of doping in some scintillators . therefore , the time resolution of scintillators might be improved , simply due to a higher photon density at the beginning of the light pulse , even if the total light yield would be decreased .          from table [ tab : nbcherphotons ] it is visible , that the yield of cherenkov photons at pet energies is low . in order to detect as many cherenkov photons as possible ,",
    "an optimized position for attaching photon detectors to cherenkov radiators is important .",
    "therefore , simulations on the angular distribution of cherenkov photons have been performed for an lso : ce cube with 3 mm edge length . for the axis of the spherical coordinate system , the flight direction of the incident 511kev",
    "photon was chosen to be the direction @xmath2 , which , in the following , is also called forward direction .    in @xmath3-direction , for both , the electrons and the cherenkov photons , an anisotropic distribution with a maximum at @xmath2 was observed , see figure [ fig : angular_distribution ] .",
    "this behaviour and is stronger for the electrons than for the cherenkov photons and could be used for optimizing the scintillator geometry and the positioning of the photon detectors on the crystals in order to maximize the detection yield of cherenkov photons .",
    "coincidence measurements have been performed to proof the principle of detecting cherenkov photons due to the recoil electrons generated by the 511kev annihilation photons .",
    "two hamamatsu r1450 pmts with a transit time spread of 360ps ( sigma ) were used for the measurement .",
    "the pmts were arranged in a coincidence setup with a @xmath4na source in the center , see figure [ fig : leadglass ] . for optimizing the alignment",
    ", the source could be moved in vertical direction by a stepping motor .",
    "artifacts due to 511kev photons entering the pmt and the pmt - window were avoided by placing a brick of lead in between the source and the pmt attached to the cherenkov radiator . as cherenkov radiator , lead glass rd50 from schott , with a high fraction of lead - oxide ( @xmath5 65% ) , with a size of @xmath64cm@xmath15cm@xmath10.8 cm and two faces polished was used . on the opposite side lso : ce , with a size of 3mm@xmath13mm@xmath18 mm was coupled to the second pmt as reference detector .",
    "the output signals of both pmts were split , with one part connected directly to a 4 channel digital wavepro 735zi oscilloscope from lecroy and the other part to a constant fraction discriminator ( cfd , model 103 , developed at psi ) before connected to the oscilloscope .        for an accurate threshold setting , the output of the pmt with the lead glass on top was amplified using a nim amplifier module 778 from philips .",
    "the cfd thresholds were set to a level of 0.5 photons for the pmt attached to the lead glass and for the reference detector to a level between the compton edge and the 511kev photo peak .",
    "the coincidence was done by triggering on the two cfd outputs and coincidence time resolution of 832ps fwhm was obtained , see figure [ fig : leadglassvslso ] on the left side .    to ensure not to trigger on photons created in the pmt window",
    ", the measurement was repeated after removing the lead glass from the pmt .",
    "the obtained background spectrum is plotted in figure [ fig : leadglassvslso ] , on the right - hand side .",
    "comparison of the two plots proves that cherenkov photons have been detected with this setup .",
    "the relatively poor ctr is due to the equipment , which was chosen for a proof of principle only and not for achieving the best time resolution . by optimizing the setup , including the geometry of the lead glass",
    ", an improved ctr can be expected .",
    "for the investigated scintillators the cherenkov yield is low compared to the scintillation yield .",
    "nevertheless , during the first few ten picoseconds the emission rates of cherenkov photons exceed the rates of scintillation photons for all investigated materials .",
    "this is even more obvious for scintillators like bgo and pwo due to their lower scintillation and higher cherenkov yield , respectively .",
    "as the time windows , chosen for calculation of the cherenkov yield , are in the range of the scintillation rise times , the cherenkov effect seems to be an important factor influencing the total rise time of scintillators and thus , the time resolution of scintillation detectors could be improved .",
    "demonstrators using the cherenkov effect only , already have been published and show promising results @xcite . however ,",
    "when using pure cherenkov radiators , the energy resolution is poor and therefore , artifacts of pet images reconstructed from such data can not be discriminated anymore .",
    "nevertheless , the cherenkov effect can be exploited in combination with scintillation and , therefore , with sufficient energy resolution for pet .",
    "this might be achieved either by consecutive detection of cherenkov and scintillation photons , or by the decrease of the rise time by increasing the cherenkov - yield .",
    "consecutive readout would require very long rise times of the scintillation process and very fast photon detectors with low dark count rates in order to distinguish between cherenkov and the subsequent scintillation photons .",
    "an advantage of this method would be the possibility to measure two time stamps ( cherenkov and scintillation ) per event , which might improve the time resolution additionally .",
    "improvement of the time resolution by decreasing the rise time seems to be easier to realize .",
    "this can be done by optimizing the optical characteristics of scintillators in order to increase the cherenkov yield and therefore , the photon density at the beginning of the scintillator emission response to a 511kev photon .",
    "a major factor affecting the number of detected cherenkov photons , is photon absorption inside the scintillator .",
    "since the emission rate of cherenkov photons is increasing at shorter wavelengths , materials with high transmission in the blue and uv - range , accompanied with photon detectors which are sensitive at these wavelengths are beneficial .",
    "although photon detectors have a higher quantum efficiency at longer wavelengths , this can not compensate the low yield of cherenkov photons in this wavelength range and therefore would not lead to a significant increase of the cherenkov detection yield .",
    "lead glass , usually used in radiation protection , was used for a proof - of - principle measurement , as it is a cheap and easy to get cherenkov radiator which is free of scintillation .",
    "the equipment for the setup was chosen to detect cherenkov photons with a basic setup , which explains the relatively poor coincidence time resolution of 832ps fwhm .",
    "nevertheless , the detection of cherenkov photons using lead glass is proven with this setup .",
    "the excellent timing properties of the cherenkov photon emission could be exploited using materials with high cherenkov yield , which might be achieved by optimizing the geometrical detector layout , refractive index and enhancing the transmission spectrum in the blue and uv - range .",
    "eventually , this could lead to an improved total rise time of scintillators and therefore , to improved time resolution of tof - pet . as a consequence ,",
    "measurements of the rise times of inorganic scintillators , especially lso : ce or luag : ce with varying ce doping , would be very interesting , since a dependency of the rise time on the doping would strengthen the conclusions drawn from the simulations performed in this work .",
    "p. lecoq , e. auffray , s. brunner , h. hillemanns , p. jarron , a. knapitsch , t. meyer , and f. powolny , `` factors influencing time resolution of scintillators and ways to improve them , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "5 , pp . 2411@xmath02416 , 2010 .",
    "r. dolenec , s. korpar , p. krizan , r. pestotnik , a. stanovnik , and r. verheyden , `` time - of - flight measurements with cherenkov photons produced by 511 kev photons in lead crystals , '' _ ieee nuclear science symp .",
    "_ , pp . 280@xmath0284 , 2010 .",
    "s. e. brunner , l. gruber , j. marton , k. suzuki , and a. hirtl , `` new approaches for improvement of tof - pet , '' _ nucl .",
    "methods phys .",
    "a _ , in press , accepted manuscript , http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2013.05.028 .",
    "s. e. derenzo , m. j. weber , w. w. moses , and c. dujardin , `` measurements of the intrinsic rise times of common inorganic scintillators , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "3 , pp . 860@xmath0864 , 2000 .",
    "s. seifert , j. h. l. steenbergen , h. t. van dam , and d. r. schaart , `` accurate measurement of the rise and decay times of fast scintillators with solid state photon counters , '' _ jour .",
    "_ , vol . 7 , p09004 , 2012 .",
    "e. auffray , d. abler , s. e. brunner , b. frisch , a. knapitsch , p. lecoq , g. mavromanolakis , o. poppe , and a. petrosyan , `` luag material for dual readout calorimetry at future high energy physics accelerators , '' _ ieee nuclear science symp .",
    "_ , pp . 2245@xmath02249 , 2009 .",
    "i. dafinei , e. auffray , m. schneegans , v. missevitch , v. b. pavlenko , a. a. fedorov , a. n. annenkov , v. l. kostylevd , and v. d. ligun , `` lead tungstate ( pbwo4 ) scintillators for lhc em calorimetry , '' _ nucl .",
    "methods phys .",
    "23 , pp . 291@xmath0298 , 1995 .",
    "berger , j.s .",
    "coursey , m.a . zucker and j. chang ,",
    "`` stopping - power and range tables for electrons , protons , and helium ions , '' nist standard reference database 124 , http://www.nist.gov/pml/data/star/index.cfm ( accessed , may , 2013 ) .",
    "g. ren , l. qin , s. lu , and h. li , `` scintillation characteristics of lutetium oxyorthosilicate ( lu2sio5:ce ) crystals doped with cerium ions , '' _ nucl .",
    "methods phys .",
    "a _ , vol .",
    "3 , pp . 560@xmath0565 , oct . 2004 .",
    "j. d. naud , t. a. tombrello , c. l. melcher , j. s. schweitzer , and o. q. road , `` the role of cerium sites in the scintillation mechanism of lso , '' _ ieee nuclear science symp .",
    "1 , pp . 367@xmath0371 , 1995 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with the newly gained interest in the time of flight method for positron emission tomography ( tof - pet ) , many options for pushing the time resolution to its borders have been investigated . </S>",
    "<S> as one of these options the exploitation of the cherenkov effect has been proposed , since it allows to bypass the scintillation process and therefore provides almost instantaneous response to incident 511kev annihilation photons . </S>",
    "<S> our simulation studies on the yield of cherenkov photons , their arrival rate at the photon detector and their angular distribution reveal a significant influence by cherenkov photons on the rise time of inorganic scintillators - a key - parameter for tof in pet . </S>",
    "<S> a measurement shows the feasibility to detect cherenkov photons in this low energy range . </S>"
  ]
}