{
  "article_text": [
    "the observational study of close galaxy pairs has revealed clear evidence of enhanced star formation rates ( sfrs ) in interacting and merging galaxies .",
    "the strongest enhancements are found in the closest pairs , with projected separations @xmath4 kpc ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these enhancements are consistent with interaction - induced star formation seen in simulations of merging galaxies , with the closest pairs comprised of systems seen near their first pericentre passage , as well as those which are coalescing ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "more recently , @xcite have shown that sfr enhancements are present out to the 80 kpc limit of their pairs sample .",
    "these enhancements are accompanied by bluer central colours @xcite , diluted metallicities @xcite , and an increased incidence of active galactic nuclei ( agns ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and luminous infrared galaxies @xcite .",
    "while some studies have probed enhanced star formation out to even larger separations , it is unclear if these enhancements are due to galaxy@xmath2galaxy interactions , larger scale environmental effects or sample biases ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this leaves open a crucial question : at what projected separations do interaction - driven enhancements disappear ?",
    "the answer to this question is needed for a full accounting of the contributions of interaction - induced star formation to the cosmic sfr , and can also provide insight into the orbits of interacting galaxies .",
    "the orbital extent of enhanced star formation depends on a number of factors , such as the energies and angular momenta of pair orbits , the strength and duration of induced star formation , the availability and distribution of gas , stellar and agn feedback , the amount of contamination by non - interacting pairs ( e.g. , chance superpositions within groups or clusters ) , etc .    with this letter",
    ", we address this question using a spectroscopic sample of sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) galaxy pairs which extends out to much larger separations than earlier work , and which carefully controls for environment .",
    "we then compare our findings with predictions from a suite of merger simulations spanning a range of orbital eccentricities , impact parameters and disc orientations .",
    "we adopt a concordance cosmology of @xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7 mpc@xmath8 throughout .",
    "we begin by identifying a large spectroscopic sample of galaxies drawn from the sdss data release 7 ( dr7 ; * ? ? ?",
    "we require that all galaxies have secure spectroscopic redshifts ( zconf @xmath3 0.7 ) , redshifts of @xmath9 , photometric and spectroscopic classifications as galaxies , and extinction - corrected petrosian apparent magnitudes of @xmath10 .",
    "we employ the photometric total stellar mass measurements of @xcite , which were estimated using the updated @xmath11 and @xmath12band photometry of @xcite , along with new photometry in the @xmath13 and @xmath14bands .",
    "we note that the photometry of @xcite has been shown to provide a significant improvement over the standard sdss pipeline , especially for galaxies in crowded systems such as close pairs @xcite .",
    "following @xcite , we take full advantage of this improved photometry by requiring that each galaxy s observed fibre @xmath15 colour be within 0.1 mag of its @xcite model - predicted fibre colours .",
    "this yields an input catalogue of @xmath0 607 000 galaxies for which secure redshifts and stellar masses are available .      for every galaxy in this catalogue",
    ", we identify the closest neighbour , and characterize the environment with several additional measurements .",
    "we define the closest neighbour to be the galaxy with the smallest projected physical separation ( hereafter @xmath16 ) which has a rest - frame relative velocity ( hereafter @xmath17 ) of @xmath18   and is within a factor of 10 of the galaxy s stellar mass .",
    "we also record the projected separation of the second closest neighbour ( hereafter @xmath19 ) and the total number of neighbours within 2 mpc ( hereafter @xmath20 ) .",
    "we now focus on galaxies which have secure sfr measurements , in order to examine how the presence of nearby companions ( with or without sfr measurements ) affects galactic star@xmath2forming properties .",
    "our sfr measurements are drawn from the catalogue of @xcite , which has been updated to include dr7 .",
    "following @xcite , we restrict our analysis to fibre sfrs only .",
    "we require each galaxy to be classified as star - forming using the criteria of @xcite , and we require a signal@xmath2to@xmath2noise ratio of at least one in each of the emission lines used for this classification .",
    "these criteria yield a sample of @xmath0 211 000 star - forming galaxies .",
    "no sfr requirements are imposed on neighbouring galaxies ; therefore , our sample will include star forming members of both ` wet ' and ` mixed ' galaxy pairs .",
    "we wish to determine the influence ( if any ) that nearby companions have on the star@xmath2forming properties of galaxies .",
    "a common approach is to compare with a control sample of galaxies which have similar selection criteria but no close companions ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , this approach is robust only for relatively close companions ; extending this approach to wider separations yields a control sample whose galaxies are substantially more isolated than the paired galaxies they are being compared with .",
    "one method of dealing with this issue is to match paired and control galaxies on local density @xcite .",
    "however , as local density probes a substantially larger scale than the pairs , this matching can not account for important differences in the smaller scale environment , as exemplified by compact groups embedded in loose groups @xcite .",
    "another approach is to require that both pairs and control galaxies be isolated on larger scales @xcite .",
    "however , as most galaxies reside in groups or clusters , this may remove the majority of the sample under consideration .",
    "instead , we introduce a new methodology which addresses this issue by matching the control sample in both local density and isolation .",
    "a brief description of this method is provided here , with additional details and validation deferred to a subsequent paper ( patton et al . in preparation ) .    for each galaxy , we identify a control sample which is matched in stellar mass , redshift , local density , and isolation .",
    "we begin by requiring each control galaxy to be within 0.01 in redshift and 0.1 dex in stellar mass .",
    "we then use @xmath20 as a proxy for local density ( which is reasonable given the match in redshift and stellar mass ) , and require that the @xmath20 of a galaxy and its controls agree within 10 percent . finally , to match in isolation , we require the @xmath16 of the control galaxy s closest companion to be within 10 per cent of the distance to the galaxy s second closest companion ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "control galaxies are chosen with replacement , yielding an average of 34 controls for each galaxy .",
    "we determine weighted mean properties of each galaxy s control sample , assigning higher statistical weights to the control galaxies which provide the best simultaneous matches in @xmath21 , mass , @xmath20 and @xmath19 .",
    "this approach yields excellent agreement between galaxies and their controls in the four properties that are being matched .",
    "the same statistical weights are then also used to compute the mean sfr of the controls for each galaxy .",
    "armed with the sfrs of galaxies and their statistical control samples , we now proceed with a direct comparison between the two , as a function of pair separation .",
    "first , following @xcite , we restrict our analysis to pairs with @xmath22 , thereby focusing on the pairs which are most likely to be undergoing interactions .",
    "next , we must account for the under - selection of close angular pairs ( @xmath23 arcsec ) in sdss due to fibre collisions .",
    "@xcite dealt with this effect by randomly culling 67.5 per cent of pairs with separations @xmath24 arcsec , using the results of the @xcite census of sdss pairs .",
    "we instead apply a statistical weight @xmath25 ( as defined in @xcite ) of 3.08 to each galaxy in close angular pairs ( @xmath26 ) , thereby avoiding a cull of the wide pairs crucial to this analysis .    in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ figrpsfr ] , we plot the mean sfr of paired and control galaxies as a function of @xmath16 . in the upper panel of the same figure , we plot the ratio of pairs versus control sfrs , which we interpret as the enhancement of sfr due to interactions ( a ratio of one means no enhancement ) . at small separations , paired galaxies are found to have substantially higher sfrs than controls ( up to a factor of 3 ) , with very high statistical significance .",
    "pair sfrs exhibit moderate enhancements of @xmath0 20 per cent over the range @xmath27 kpc , and then decline to match their controls by @xmath28 kpc .",
    "[ figtidaltail ] shows a striking example of enhanced star formation in a relatively wide pair ( 91 kpc ) with a clear tidal tail linking the member galaxies . above 150 kpc",
    ", there is no evidence of net enhancement ( or suppression ) in the pair sfr ( this is true out to at least 1000 kpc , as shown in the inset panel of fig .  [ figrpsfr ] ) .    over the range @xmath29 kpc",
    ", these results are broadly consistent with the findings of @xcite , despite some differences in data ( e.g. , stellar masses , s / n requirements ) , pair selection , and environmental matching . at larger separations ,",
    "our results indicate that we have achieved our goal of measuring sfr enhancements out to sufficiently wide separations that the enhancements reach zero .",
    "since our paired galaxies have controls which are closely matched in galaxy properties ( stellar mass and @xmath21 ) and environment ( local density and isolation ) , we conclude that galaxy@xmath2galaxy interactions appear to be able to boost the mean sfr out to @xmath28 kpc , but not further .",
    "if true , this implies that enhanced star formation extends out to larger separations than has previously been appreciated , and that studies of strongly interacting galaxies may miss a sizeable population of galaxies which exhibit enhanced star formation due to recent close encounters . to examine",
    "if this interpretation is physically plausible , we now turn to simulations .",
    "we investigate the possibility that mergers are responsible for the observed sfr enhancement using a controlled suite of numerical simulations .",
    "the numerical methods employed here are similar to those described in detail in  @xcite .",
    "specifically , our simulation suite has been run using the n - body / sph simulation code gadget  @xcite which  in addition to including gravity and hydrodynamics ",
    "accounts for radiative cooling of gas  @xcite , a density@xmath2driven sfr prescription with associated feedback  @xcite , and gas recycling from aging stellar populations  @xcite .",
    "our goal is to construct a set of galaxy merger simulations , where we can compare the evolving sfrs in isolated galaxies to the sfrs in merging systems , as a function of galactic separation @xmath31 . to achieve this , we construct two isolated galaxies of initial stellar mass @xmath32 and @xmath33 .",
    "these masses , and the resulting stellar mass ratio of @xmath34 , were chosen to match the median mass and mass ratio of our sdss pairs sample .",
    "each isolated galaxy contains a dark matter halo , a stellar and gaseous disc ( 20 per cent initial gas fraction ) , and a stellar bulge ( which contains 20 per cent of the stellar mass ) .",
    "we ensure that our galaxies are stable against bar formation or other instabilities when evolved in isolation , and then set them on merging trajectories as described in the following subsection .",
    "since our isolated galaxies are stable against bar formation or any rapid changes in their sfr , any major changes seen in the sfr for the merging galaxies can be confidently attributed to the merger interaction .      for our merger suite ,",
    "we adopt a set of five eccentricities ( 0.85 , 0.9 , 0.95 , 1 and 1.05 ) and five impact parameters ( 2 , 4 , 8 , 12 and 16 kpc ) which are consistent with orbital element distribution functions derived from cosmological simulations  @xcite . while many previous merger studies have limited their scope to studying zero energy orbits with fixed impact parameters , the 25 combinations of eccentricity and impact parameter used in our merger suite yields substantial differences in the resulting apocentre separations ( @xmath35 ) .",
    "this is critical for this letter , where we are interested in assessing the feasibility of driving sfr enhancements at relatively large galactic separations ( @xmath36 kpc ) via galaxy@xmath2galaxy interactions .",
    "since there are no known correlations between the orientation of each galaxies angular momentum vector relative to the plane of the merger  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we select three representative merger disc orientations ( the e , f and k orientations from @xcite ) , yielding a suite of 75 merger simulations .",
    "we emphasize that this merger suite is not intended to be complete , as we are still failing to sample a large portion of available merger parameter space ( e.g. , variations in galaxy morphology , mass , mass ratio , gas fraction , etc . ) .",
    "moreover , these simulated pairs are pure binary systems , without the cosmological context of additional galaxies spanning a range of environments . however , by including a range of orbital parameters as we have done here , we gain specific insight about interaction - driven starburst activity at large galactic separations which has not been previously extensively studied .",
    "we track the total and central ( within 1 kpc ) sfr of each simulated galaxy as a function of time . in order to facilitate comparison with our sdss sample ,",
    "we translate the simulated sfrs into sfr enhancements by normalizing by the sfr of the galaxy when evolved in isolation . in fig .",
    "[ figorbits ] , we show how pair separation and total sfr enhancement depend on the time relative to first pericentre passage ( @xmath37 ) for a representative subset of orbital configurations in this merger suite .",
    "the resulting @xmath35 varies from @xmath055 to 220 kpc , with the largest @xmath35 corresponding to the highest eccentricity and largest impact parameter ( and vice versa ) .    for each of the orbits shown in fig .",
    "[ figorbits ] , a strong burst of star formation begins shortly after the first close passage , with a maximum sfr enhancement of a factor of 1.32.2 .",
    "this enhancement persists for about 1.5 gyr for all orbits in which the galaxies remain apart from one another during this timeframe . in every case ,",
    "a second and stronger burst of star formation begins shortly before coalescence . for orbits with relatively high eccentricities and impact parameters ,",
    "there is enough time for the first episode of enhanced star formation to subside , followed by a period of suppressed star formation ( quenching ) .",
    "this intriguing result would not have been seen if , like many other studies , we had restricted our orbits to low eccentricities and small impact parameters .      in order to compare these results with our sdss measurements of sfr enhancements ( fig .",
    "[ figrpsfr ] ) , we observe each of these orbits from a large number of random orientations , and at random times during the orbits , computing @xmath16 and @xmath17 in each case . while the simulated orbits begin at a initial separation of 165 kpc ( corresponding to the virial radius of the more massive galaxy ) , we extrapolate each orbit backward in time to an initial separation of 10 mpc , to ensure that we follow each orbit for effectively all the time that the pair has @xmath38 kpc .",
    "we then compute the average sfr enhancement over all 75 orbital configurations , treating each 10 myr timestep equally , which accounts for the fact that some orbits take longer to coalesce than others .",
    "we exclude all data points for which @xmath39  , as was done with our sdss pairs .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ figsimobs ] ( the corresponding error bars are vanishingly small , since we average over so many viewing angles ) .    within the simulations ,",
    "we see strong sfr enhancements at small separations ( @xmath40 kpc ) which are driven by coalescing systems .",
    "the simulations yield moderate enhancements at a wide range of separations ( roughly 20 - 100 kpc ) , with smaller enhancements extending out to @xmath0 150 kpc . as seen in fig .",
    "[ figsimobs ] , the total and central sfr enhancements in the simulations roughly bracket the sdss enhancements , with a similar dependence on @xmath16 .",
    "these simulations suggest that the sfr enhancements seen in widely separated sdss pairs are the result of star formation triggered by earlier close passages . in the simulations",
    ", it typically takes @xmath0 1 gyr for galaxies to reach @xmath28 kpc after their first close passage , travelling at a time - averaged transverse speed of @xmath0 150 .",
    "this is consistent with the relatively long time - scale of enhanced star formation seen in fig .",
    "[ figorbits ] .",
    "we have found clear evidence of enhanced star formation in pairs with separations as large as 150 kpc , and have demonstrated that such enhancements can be produced in simulations with realistic orbits .",
    "the rise in enhancements towards the smallest scales and the absence of any net enhancement on larger scales is consistent with star formation triggered by galaxy@xmath2galaxy interactions .    although it has been appreciated that mergers can drive starburst activity following close passages  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , much of the focus has been on very close separations associated with final coalescence . here",
    ", we have used numerical simulations to show that this same physical picture can apply to sfr enhancements that occur at large galactic separations following first pericentre passage .",
    "specifically , since there is a time delay between close passages and peak starburst activity of the order of an orbital or dynamical time , it is possible for sfr enhancements to appear prominently at large galactic separations as the galaxies separate after first pericentre passage .",
    "while a detailed census of interacting / merging pairs is beyond the scope of this letter , we can estimate the fraction of star forming galaxies which are found in these wider pairs .",
    "following @xcite , we weight the observed pair fraction by the reciprocal of the overall spectroscopic completeness of the survey ( 88 per cent according to @xcite ) , and also weight close angular pairs by an additional factor of 3.08 ( see section  [ sdss ] ) , and find that 12.3 per cent of galaxies are in @xmath41 kpc pairs , versus 1.8 per cent in @xmath42 kpc pairs . moreover , by applying this methodology to the data in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ figrpsfr ] , we estimate that of the enhanced star formation occurring in pairs with @xmath41 kpc , 66 per cent occurs at @xmath43 kpc .",
    "this implies that interaction - induced star formation is much more prevalent than has been appreciated to date .",
    "we caution that our sdss sample is not complete for the 1:10 stellar mass ratio pairs considered in this study , and we have not attempted to correct for this in our rough census .",
    "we note also that our sdss paired galaxies ( and their controls ) were required to have secure sfr measurements ; as a result , our sample is restricted primarily to ` blue cloud ' galaxies which lie on the star - forming sequence @xcite . finally , we can not rule out enhancements in individual pairs at even wider separations ( including flybys ) ; however , any such enhancements appear , to first order , to be cancelled out by the suppression of star formation in other pairs .",
    "we caution also that we have used a rather simple suite of merger simulations to demonstrate consistency between the observations and simulations .",
    "while this has the advantage of clarity , future studies will be able to improve on this by using a merger suite that more closely matches the properties of paired galaxies found in sdss .",
    "this can be achieved by using a substantially larger merger suite , allowing for coverage or exploration of a more complete portion of the merger parameter space . or",
    ", it may be possible to take advantage of continued advancements in computational resources and numerical methods to measure sfr enhancements directly from cosmological hydrodynamical simulations .",
    "recent studies have shown improvements in the ability of galaxies to form and maintain gas  rich discs in cosmological simulations  @xcite which may allow for direct measures of the sfr enhancement for paired galaxies using analogous methods to those applied in our sdss analysis .",
    "we have used a well - defined sample of @xmath0 211 000 star - forming galaxies to measure sfr enhancements as a function of pair separation .",
    "our novel method of characterizing the local density and isolation of paired galaxies yields the first secure measurements of enhancements at wide separations .",
    "we find that sfr enhancements are detectable out to @xmath28 kpc , with no net enhancement ( or suppression ) seen at larger separations . as with earlier work",
    ", we find the strongest enhancements at the smallest pair separations . we have compared these results with the predictions from a suite of @xmath44body / sph simulations of merging galaxies , and find broad agreement .",
    "in particular , the enhancements seen out to @xmath0 150 kpc are a natural outcome of mergers in which the eccentricities and impact parameters are sufficiently high to lead to the required separations before the interaction  induced sfr enhancements subside .",
    "-0.48 cm abazajian k.  n. , et al . , 2009 , apjs , 182 , 543 barnes j.  e. , hernquist l. , 1996 , apj , 471 , 115 barton e.  j. , geller m.  j. , kenyon s.  j. , 2000 , apj , 530 , 660 barton e.  j. , arnold j.  a. , zentner a.  r. , bullock j.  s. , wechsler r.  h. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 1538 brinchmann j. , charlot s. , white s.  d.  m. , tremonti c. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. , brinkmann j. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 1151 cox t.  j. , jonsson p. , somerville r.  s. , primack j.  r. , dekel a. , 2008 , mnras , 384 , 386 di matteo p. , combes f. , melchior a .-",
    ", semelin b. , 2007 , a&a , 468 , 61 ellison s.  l. , patton d.  r. , simard l. , mcconnachie a.  w. , 2008 , aj , 135 , 1877 ellison s.  l. , patton d.  r. , simard l. , mcconnachie a.  w. , baldry i.  k. , mendel j.  t. , 2010 , mnras , 407 , 1514 ellison s.  l. , patton d.  r. , mendel j.  t. , scudder j.  m. , 2011 , mnras , 418 , 2043 ellison s.  l. , mendel j.  t. , scudder j.  m. , patton d.  r. , palmer m.  j.  d. , 2013 , mnras , 430 , 3128 katz n. , weinberg d.  h. , hernquist l. , 1996 , apjs , 105 , 19 kauffmann g. , et al . , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 1055 khochfar s. , burkert a. , 2006 , a&a , 445 , 403 lambas d.  g. , tissera p.  b. , alonso m.  s. , coldwell g. , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 1189 mendel j.  t. , ellison s.  l. , simard l. , patton d.  r. , mcconnachie a.  w. , 2011 , mnras , 418 , 1409 mendel , j.  t. et al .",
    "2013 , , submitted mihos j.  c. , hernquist l. , 1996 , apj , 464 , 641 montuori m. , di matteo p. , lehnert m.  d. , combes f. , semelin b. , 2010 , a&a , 518 , a56 park c. , choi y .- y .",
    ", vogeley m.  s. , gott j.  r. , iii , blanton m.  r. , sdss collaboration , 2007 , apj , 658 , 898 patton d.  r. , atfield j.  e. , 2008 , apj , 685 , 235 patton d.  r. , carlberg r.  g. , marzke r.  o. , pritchet c.  j. , da costa l.  n. , pellegrini p.  s. , 2000 , apj , 536 , 153 patton d.  r. , et al . , 2002 , apj , 565 , 208 patton d.  r. , ellison s.  l. , simard l. , mcconnachie a.  w. , mendel j.  t. , 2011 , mnras , 412 , 591 robaina a.  r. , et al .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 704 , 324 robaina a.  r. , bell e.  f. , 2012 , mnras , 427 , 901 robertson b. , cox t.  j. , hernquist l. , franx m. , hopkins p.  f. , martini p. , springel v. , 2006 , apj , 641 , 21 salim s. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , apjs , 173 , 267 scudder j.  m. , ellison s.  l. , torrey p. , patton d.  r. , mendel j.  t. , 2012 , mnras , 426 , 549 simard l. , mendel j.  t. , patton d.  r. , ellison s.  l. , mcconnachie a.  w. , 2011 , apjs , 196 , 11 sol alonso m. , lambas d.  g. , tissera p. , coldwell g. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 1029 springel v. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 1105 springel v. , hernquist l. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 289 torrey p. , cox t.  j. , kewley l. , hernquist l. , 2012a , apj , 746 , 108 torrey p. , vogelsberger m. , sijacki d. , springel v. , hernquist l. , 2012b , mnras , 427 , 2224 vogelsberger m. , sijacki d. , kere d. , springel v. , hernquist l. , 2012 , mnras , 425 , 3024 wetzel a.  r. , 2011 , mnras , 412 , 49 woods d.  f. , geller m.  j. , kurtz m.  j. , westra e. , fabricant d.  g. , dellantonio i. , 2010 , aj , 139 , 1857"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use pair and environmental classifications of @xmath0 211 000 star - forming galaxies from the sloan digital sky survey , along with a suite of merger simulations , to investigate the enhancement of star formation as a function of separation in galaxy pairs . using a new technique for distinguishing between the influence of nearby neighbours and larger scale environment </S>",
    "<S> , we find a clear enhancement in star formation out to projected separations of @xmath0 150 kpc , beyond which there is no net enhancement . </S>",
    "<S> we find the strongest enhancements at the smallest separations ( especially @xmath1 kpc ) , consistent with earlier work . </S>",
    "<S> similar trends are seen in the simulations , which indicate that the strongest enhancements are produced in highly disturbed systems approaching final coalescence , whereas the more modest enhancements seen at wider separations are the result of starburst activity triggered at first pericentre passage , which persists as the galaxies move to larger separations . the absence of any net enhancement beyond 150 kpc provides reassurance that the detected enhancements are due to galaxy@xmath2galaxy interactions , rather than larger scale environmental effects or potential pair selection biases . </S>",
    "<S> a rough census indicates that 66 per cent of the enhanced star formation in our pair sample occurs at separations @xmath3 30 kpc . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that significant interaction - induced star formation is not restricted to merger remnants or galaxies with close companions ; instead , a larger population of wider separation pairs exhibit enhanced star formation due to recent close encounters .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : evolution @xmath2 galaxies : interactions @xmath2 galaxies : star formation . </S>"
  ]
}