{
  "article_text": [
    "in the second part of the 20-th century the development of high intensity normal conducting linacs with the final energy of hydrogen ions up to ( 600 - 1000 ) mev with the average beam current up to ( 0.5 - 1.0 ) ma were under development in several countries .",
    "the first such linac was constructed in los alamos , usa , at the energy 800 mev , pulse beam current 17 ma and average beam current 1.2 ma , starting with the first beam in 1972 .",
    "the second such linac , with the designed energy 600 mev , pulse current 50 ma and average current 0.5 ma , was constructed in ussr , inr of the ras , starting with the first beam in 1990 and now operating , unfortunately , not with full power .",
    "+    figure 1 : schematic sketches for coupled cells structures for high particle velocity .",
    "a ) - side coupled structure ( scs ) , b ) - on axis coupled structure ( ocs ) , c ) annular coupled structure ( acs ) , d ) - structure with coaxial coupling cells , e ) disk and washer ( daw ) structure , f ) structure with shaped washers .    [ 1f ]    during development of such linacs , named that time as meson factories , two important statement for normal conducting accelerating structures in these linacs , were formulated .",
    "+ there are no single accelerating structure , which can overlap the total energy range of such hadron linac .",
    "+ for high intensity linacs so called compensated accelerating structures should be used , which combine the high rf efficiency with the high stability of accelerating field distribution with respect to errors in manufacturing and tuning , beam loading .",
    "the compensated are named structures , in which at operating frequency coincide frequencies of two modes - accelerating mode and coupling mode , with conjugated parity of field distributions , @xcite .",
    "another definitions of these structures , used in the literature , are bi - periodical structures or coupled cell structures . + for the initial part of the linacs with the energy up to ( 50 - 80 ) mev the drift tube linac ( dtl ) , or alvarez structure , is used with post couplers ( for field distribution stabilization ) until now without principal changes . in the energy range from @xmath3 mev to @xmath4 mev based on dtl structures ,",
    "separated dtl ( sdtl ) or coupled cell dtl ( ccdtl ) can be applied .",
    "+ anyhow , with the beam energy increasing rf efficiency of dtl - based structures decreases and another accelerating structure should be applied .",
    "there were a lot of proposals of such structures for the high energy part of the linac .",
    "most typical are shown schematically in the fig .",
    "accelerating structure for the high intensity hadron linac should satisfy to the set of different requirements , which are some times contradictory - required rf parameters , operational reliability and stability , vacuum conductivity , technological aspect , including the price of construction .",
    "it stimulates research and development for new structures .",
    "but very important , decisive points are the level of development and demonstration of the required parameters of the full scale structure at high rf power .",
    "it confirms the possibility to create the accelerating system with required parameters .",
    "figure 2 : the scs structure in the high energy part of the lansce linac ( left ) and the high energy part of the inr linac with daw structure ( right ) .",
    "[ 2f ]    the first accelerating structure , realized in the high energy part of the linac , fig .",
    "2 , scs , invented and investigated in lanl , @xcite , @xcite . later this structure was used in fnal injector linac energy upgrade to 400 mev and also applied in sns linac in the room temperature part . the schematic view of this structure is shown in fig .",
    "the structure has a coupling coefficient value @xmath5 .",
    "due to position of coupling slots oppositely in diameter , in the field distribution of accelerating cells there is dipole addition and at the beam axis there is not zero transverse field .",
    "due opposite direction in adjacent cells the effect of transverse field for the synchronous particle cancels in the first order in @xmath6 , but the second order effects remain . here",
    "@xmath7 is the relative increasing of the particle velocity at one accelerating gap .",
    "+    figure 3 : accelerating structures , realized in linacs .",
    "a ) daw for inr linac , 1 - slots for hom displacement , 2 - support , 3 - input/ output for cooling water ; b ) scs , c ) ocs - electron linacs .",
    "[ 3f ]    in the ussr development program of meson facility linac acs and daw were invented , @xcite , @xcite .",
    "both structures were tested at high rf power level , @xcite , and , due to higher coupling coefficient @xmath8 , the daw structure , fig .",
    "3a , was chosen as realized in inr linac , fig .",
    "2 . together with the high @xmath9 value",
    ", daw has an excellent vacuum conductivity .",
    "the washers are connected to disks with l - type supports , in which the cooling channels for water supply in the washer are placed .",
    "the structure has a severe high order modes ( hom ) problem , and hom s are placed below , in the vicinity , and above operating frequency . in the structure design the special selective resonant elements - slots ( 3 , in fig .",
    "3a ) were introduced .",
    "these slots do not interact with accelerating mode and do not deteriorate operating rf parameters .",
    "but , interacting with hom s , slots result in the displacement of hom s from the vicinity of operating frequency .",
    "another solution for hom s displacement was developed later with bi - periodic l - type supports by y. iwashita .",
    "for this structure there are at least two solutions for rf hom problem . for the range of particles velocity @xmath10 from @xmath11 to @xmath12 of the total rf losses are in the washers . for application in linac with the high duty factor value the heat load exceeds in order the value , proven in inr linac .",
    "because water supply can be realized only through thin l - type supports , this problem looks difficult .",
    "+ the on axis coupled structure , fig .",
    "3c , is widely used in compact electron linacs . for protons acceleration",
    "this structure was considered too , but rejected , due essential reduction of effective shunt impedance @xmath13 for medium @xmath14 range and possibility of a stable multipactoring in coupling cells .",
    "figure 4 : jhp acs unit shown here from the side of coupling cell .",
    "1 ) - coupling slots , 2 ) - tapering , 3)- vacuum ports .    [ 4f ]      during jhp research and development program in kek @xcite , under leadership of y. yamazaki , the acs design for l - band frequency range , fig .",
    "4 , was essentially , in some parameters qualitatively , improved .",
    "the number of slot was increased from two to four .",
    "it ensures decoupling of accelerating mode with @xmath15 hom mode , which exists in coupling cells not so far from operating frequency .",
    "the tapering , applied near coupling slots , ( 2 in fig .",
    "4 ) allows @xmath9 value @xmath16 together with significant thickness of the web between accelerating and coupling cells .",
    "the sufficient web thickness allows a placement of cooling channels . elaborated and effective cooling circuit was developed , @xcite , ensuring stable acs operation with high heat loading .",
    "the fabrication technique for l - band acs was developed and tested also , @xcite .",
    "the multi - cell bridge cavity , @xcite , was developed to overlap the space required for focusing elements . in the bridge cavity",
    "are placed fast movable tuners for operating frequency fast control .",
    "the cooling water is used only for heat removal .",
    "the entire cooling system becomes much more simple , as compared to the solution of the frequency control by change of cooling water temperature or flow .",
    "+ totally , in jhp research was developed the concept of accelerating module , fig .",
    "finally , l - band acs module was successfully tested at the high level of rf power , @xcite .",
    "+    figure 5 : schematic sketch of the acs accelerating module ( left ) and the l- band acs module for high rf power test in jhp program .    [ 5f ]    basing on : - results of comparative estimations for different accelerating structures for high intensity hadron linac ; + - proven results of the l - band acs structure performance and the developed fabrication technique ; + - accumulated experience for l - band acs module construction with required parameters ; + - proven results of l - band accelerating acs module and promising expectations and estimations for operating frequency 972 mhz ; + the development of accelerating module with acs structure was chosen as the base line for normal conducting module for j - parc linac .",
    "the direct scaling from the l - band acs design is not a solution , because leads to increasing of transverse dimensions in 1.33 times and structure weight per unit length in 1.75 times . in this way",
    "the developed brazing technique , applied also for scs in lanl and daw in inr , meets strong problems in the uniformity and reliability of brazed joint .",
    "after scs construction in lanl with @xmath17 , where @xmath18 is the operating frequency , there was conclusion , that the possibilities of brazing technique limit possible scs operating frequency to @xmath19 .",
    "later , the problems in the construction of scs module with @xmath20 for high rf power test were not the last reasons to change the structure .",
    "+ in acs optimization transverse dimensions should be reduced essentially .",
    "it are defined in acs by diameter of coupling cells . but another points - vacuum ports and connection with accelerating cell - are also important .",
    "+ during development the achieved l - band acs performance should not be lost .",
    "also the high heat capability should be saved - acs module should have a possibility for operation with @xmath1 duty factor .",
    "the procedure and technique of cells optimization is described in @xcite .",
    "the final choice was done after several iterations in the mutual adjustment of coupling and accelerating slots and here mainly reasons , results and conclusions are given .",
    "+ for the wide range optimization , described in @xcite two shapes of accelerating cell , shown in fig .",
    "6b and fig .",
    "6c , were used .",
    "+    figure 6 : considered shapes of the acs accelerating cell a ) - the scaled l - band shape , b ) - the shape with two outer rounding , c ) - the shape with a conical part , d ) - the final choice .    [ 6f ]    for reference , the shape of l - band acs was scaled to @xmath21 , fig . 6a .",
    "two another shapes differ in outer part . the shape in fig .",
    "6b has two radii of outer rounding . the shape in fig .",
    "6c has the conical part with small adjacent rounding , both for quality factor small improvement and to provide a smooth surface .",
    "the goal of this modifications is to find the most convenient and effective solution for accelerating cell outer shape for connection with coupling cell .",
    "+ the drift tube nose has two radii of rounding , @xmath22 and @xmath23 in fig .",
    "6c . the maximal electric field at the surface @xmath24 , which determines an electrical strength of the structure and possibility of breakdowns , takes place at the upper nose part . as the result of applied wide range study",
    ", we can have clear representation about the influence of each geometrical parameter on structure rf parameters . in fig .",
    "7a is shown the surface of the effective shunt impedance @xmath13 on two variables - the radius of lower rounding @xmath22 and the gap ratio @xmath25 for another free parameters being fixed .",
    "one can clearly see significant @xmath13 reduction with @xmath22 increasing , while @xmath22 increasing affects @xmath24 slightly .",
    "we can all time find the relation @xmath22 and @xmath23 to improve @xmath13 value but to keep @xmath24 below required value .",
    "+    figure 7 : the surface @xmath26 to illustrate @xmath22 influence ( a ) and plots of of the total @xmath13 value for the total acs system in dependence on @xmath27 ratio ( b ) .",
    "[ 7f ]    for both shapes under consideration the influence of cell dimensions on rf parameters was considered assuming the total acs structure for energy range from 190 mev to 400 mev , @xmath28 .",
    "some dimensions were fixed , considering acs rf parameters in relationships with beam dynamics and operational reliability requirements .",
    "+ instead of essential @xmath13 increasing with decreasing the aperture radius @xmath29 , this radius was fixed to @xmath30 for the total acs system , taking into account beam dynamics conditions , especially taking care for matching with previous linac part .",
    "+ the total acs @xmath13 value also can be increased by @xmath31 reduction - the web thickness between adjacent accelerating cells .",
    "but we have to place inside web effective cooling channels and foresee the sufficient thickness of material between cooling cannels and vacuum volume of accelerating cell , taking into account effect of high temperature brazing .",
    "the web thickness was fixed to @xmath32 for the entire acs system .",
    "+ instead of cooling channels are placed close to the drift tube as possible , the heat evacuation from the drift tube nose , the point with the maximal @xmath24 value , is due to natural copper heat conductivity only .",
    "the drift tube cone angle was fixed to @xmath33 as the compromise between possible @xmath13 increasing by angle reduction and heat evacuation conditions without cooling channels inside the drift tube .",
    "7b are shown plot of @xmath13 value for the total acs system in dependence on @xmath27 ratio , where @xmath34 is the kilpatric threshold value for @xmath21 .",
    "as one can see , plot show saturation with @xmath27 increasing .",
    "increasing @xmath27 from 1.0 to 1.1 , we can expect @xmath13 increasing at @xmath35 , or relative increasing @xmath36 .",
    "with increasing of time for conditioning and risk of possible breakdowns during operation we have no adequate compensation in rf efficiency . for the total acs system the maximal surface electric field",
    "was fixed as @xmath37 .",
    "+ for another dimension of accelerating cell the rf parameters of the entire acs system were considered in the option `` all variable '' to get the maximal @xmath13 value with limitations for @xmath38 and @xmath24 , applied before .",
    "after that the fixed parameters for entire acs system were founded to have the minimal deviation from the optimal @xmath13 value .",
    "the relative difference was found as @xmath39 and for cost reduction in acs production the dimensions of accelerating cells were fixed , as shown in fig .",
    "the adjustment of operating frequency for each @xmath14 is by adjustment of gap length between drift tubes . + as one can see from the plots in fig .",
    "7b , the price for conical part in the accelerating cell shape is @xmath13 reduction at @xmath40 as compared to the totally rounded shape .",
    "but it is not the final result for the acs j - parc structure - it is the intermediate result in 2d , approximation without connection with coupling cell .",
    "we have to get the best final result in 3d case .      to decrease acs transverse dimension , the `` radial '' cell orientation , realized in l - band acs , fig .",
    "8a , was changed to the `` longitudinal '' one , fig .",
    "8b . +    figure 8 : the coupling cell shapes for acs structure , a ) the scaled from the l - band acs , b ) - the modified shape .",
    "[ 8f ]    the shape and dimensions for the lower part of the cell were chosen for better adjustment with accelerating cell , comfortable tool access in surface treatment and for higher , than in upper part , magnetic field density for higher coupling coefficient . the gap length in the cell , fig .",
    "8b , was reduced slightly , to keep conditions for multipactor discharge in coupling cells as ensured `` not possible '' , @xcite , and do not increase the sensitivity of coupling cell frequency to deviation of dap length during mechanical treatment and brazing .",
    "+ the vacuum ports are shifted inside the cell , crossing the outer cell part and the cell gap region too .",
    "the cells with the modified shape were analyzed for breakdown possibility with cells excitation due to accelerating cells detuning and during transient and the big reserve in the electric strength was detected .",
    "+ for mass production simplification the dimensions of coupling cells are the same through the total acs system .",
    "later the cell shape was corrected slightly for further simplification - the outer cell part was modified to flat . + in such design the transverse acs dimensions are defined by the outer coupling cell radius .",
    "the value of coupling coefficient @xmath9 between accelerating and coupling cell depends on the dimensions , position and mutual orientation of coupling slots . for the structures , coupled with slots for one slot @xmath41 where @xmath42 and @xmath43 are the lengths and the height of the slot , @xmath44 is the web thickness between cells in the place of the slot , @xmath45 are the magnetic field at the slot for accelerating and coupling cells , @xmath46 are the stored energy in accelerating and coupling cells respectively . instead of a strong dependence @xmath47 , the slot length increasing leads to increasing of rf current density at the slot ends and @xmath13 reduction . at first",
    ", the slot height @xmath43 was adjusted to maximal comfortable value and tapering angle was optimized .",
    "finally , the slot dimensions were fixed to @xmath48 and the slot opening angle ( from the axis ) @xmath49 .",
    "+ the slot edges from the side of accelerating cell were rounded with @xmath50 . as compared to sharp @xmath51 edges",
    ", it results , according simulations , in @xmath9 increasing at @xmath52 , ( from @xmath53 to @xmath54 , @xmath55 increasing is several percent s and thermal stress reduction in the slot region .",
    "( later , in acs optimization for mass production , slot rounding was changed to chamfer without degradation of another performances ) .",
    "+ if slots at the opposite sides of the cell are placed `` face to face '' , the partial coupling cancellation takes place .",
    "the maximal value of coupling coefficient can be achieved when the slots at one side of the cell are placed in between of slots at opposite side of the cell .",
    "such slots orientation was realized in the l - band acs and the procedure was established to determine cells frequencies for rf tuning before brazing .",
    "such configuration realize complicated symmetry of the structure - simultaneous translation and rotation , @xcite .",
    "such structures have no planes of mirror symmetry , where shorting plates can be applied and approximated method of cells detuning was used for frequencies estimations .",
    "+ the coupling cancellation effect depends on the longitudinal distance between slots .",
    "the coupling cell is short enough and `` face to face '' slots orientation at the opposite sides leads to strong @xmath9 reduction . in the coupling acs cells slots at one side of the cell",
    "are shifted at @xmath56 with respect to slots at the opposite side . in scs coupling cells",
    "`` face to face '' slots orientation , fig .",
    "3b , is realized just from necessity and coupling cancellation should be compensated by slots increasing or stronger magnetic field at the slots .",
    "+ simulations have shown , @xcite , that for the worth case of the short accelerating cell @xmath57 the difference in @xmath9 value is not so big - @xmath58 for rotated slot position and @xmath59 for opposite slots position , for example , with the relative difference @xmath60 .",
    "for the higher @xmath14 values this difference is even smaller . but",
    "with opposite slot position we get a plane of mirror symmetry in the middle of accelerating cell and can utilize much simpler procedure for cell frequency measurements during rf tuning . at the plane of mirror symmetry the field of accelerating mode satisfies to electric wall boundary conditions and shorting plate can be used .",
    "the measurement of accelerating cells frequency is evident , similar to shown in fig .",
    "9a or without detuning rods in pumping ports .",
    "for coupling mode frequencies measurement non direct method is suggested , @xcite , because the coupling mode with magnetic wall boundary condition can not be excited . in the assembly with two acs periods we measure frequencies for @xmath61 and @xmath62 mode of the chain from two coupling cells , because accelerating cell is detuned drastically . from the measured values we can extract the frequency for @xmath63 mode , which corresponds to the coupling cell frequency .",
    "+    figure 9 : schematic sketches for frequency measurements of accelerating mode ( a ) and coupling mode ( b ) frequencies .",
    "1 ) - acs periods , 2 ) - shorting plates , 3 ) - detuning rods for coupling cell , 4 ) - detuning rod for accelerating mode .    [ 9f ]",
    "all time coupling slots deteriorate the axial symmetry of the cell , resulting in multipole additions in the field distribution . for four slots at each side of the cell",
    "this addition starts all time from quadrupole and higher .",
    "but for the rotated slot position the quadrupole addition has the even dependence of transverse field components with respect to symmetry plane , and for opposite slot position - the odd dependence with much faster decay of additions from the slot to the structure axis .",
    "it is additional preference of coupled slot structures with mirror symmetry plane .",
    "+ basing on obtained results for not so big @xmath9 decreasing and practical preference of opposite slot position at opposite sides of accelerating cell , this configuration is chosen for j - parc acs . + normally in the slot coupled structures the coupling coefficient value can be achieved at the expense of @xmath13 reduction with the rate @xmath64 reduction in @xmath13 for @xmath65 increasing . for the slot coupled structures with the rounded outer part of accelerating cell the adjustment with coupling cell is not convenient .",
    "one can see the complicated surface in the connecting region for scs , fig .",
    "3b . during scs cells production for sns",
    "linac additional mechanical treatment was required to remove sharp edges and provide tolerable slot shape , @xcite .",
    "+    figure 10 : the final configuration of the j - parc acs period .    [ 10f ]    with the conical part in the shape of accelerating cell , fig .",
    "6c , we get a strong mechanical design , with controllable slot shape and reduced slot length . for the shorter slot",
    "the density of rf current near slot ends is lower and in the total 3d structure we recover the reduced at @xmath66 in 2d case @xmath13 value .",
    "comparative 3d simulations have shown , that for the same @xmath9 value and the same modified coupling cell the structures with rounded accelerating cell , fig .",
    "6b , and the structure with conical part in accelerating cell , fig .",
    "6c , differ in @xmath13 at @xmath67 . +    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ 4 t ]    as one can see from the table 4 , even for lower @xmath9 value , for the same conditions , scs has no preference in rf efficiency . and initial preference due to rounded cell shape in cancelled by not comfortable connections of the cells . in the shape distortions for dispersion curve ,",
    "the structures are nearly the same - there is neighbor coupling between acs coupling cells and similar coupling between scs accelerating cells .",
    "+ more comparison is in results of thermal - structural analysis .",
    "for sns the operational duty factor is of @xmath68 .",
    "the results of such scs thermal analysis are described in @xcite .",
    "comparing results for scs and acs , one will see less uniform temperature distribution for scs and higher stress values near slot , even for adopted coupling cell for scs design , which leads to lower @xmath9 value for j - parc conditions .",
    "+ the j - parc acs accelerating module has much more reserve for operation with the enlarged duty factor value .",
    "proposals for the annular coupled structure modification to improve acs advantages for 972 mhz option are described in this report .",
    "mainly these improvements are directed to simplify mass production and mass tuning process . but each modification should not deteriorate ( only improve ) acs parameters achieved before . for this purpose",
    "all modifications were strongly investigated with different methods , available in the design of accelerating structures , discussed and revised for possible sequences .",
    "only if in the reference acs design there was extra reserve in some parameters , these reserves were decreased to conservative , proven in another structures , values , leading to improvements in another parameters .",
    "+ each modification separately is not a big achievement . but collected and adjusted all together , these modifications have enough significant effect - proposed acs design does nt lose to reference design in rf parameters but has advantage of smaller transverse dimensions and strongly reduced weight , allowing application of fabrication technique similar to l- band acs option .",
    "+ during jhp research program very robust concept of the accelerating tank was developed and tested - reasonably effective accelerating structure with very effective cooling circuit , added with bridge coupling cavities , equipped with fast movable tuners .",
    "together with latest improvements in acs design and follow the concept of the total cavity , acs looks now as the mostly promising cost - effective solution for normal conducting accelerating structure for high intensity proton linac with high duty factor operation .",
    "the present acs 972 mhz design has the possibility to operate with the average heat loading up to @xmath69 during @xmath1 duty factor linac operation .",
    "this report presents one part of the 972 mhz acs development , mainly results of rf parameters study , which was under way in kek ( and later jaea ) acs group .",
    "all results were discussed in acs meetings - nice trial field to protect and improve proposals in the atmosphere of creative research , large experience and high responsibility for final result - high intensity linac .",
    "+ the author warmly thanks all participants of acs meetings - y. yamazaki , h. ao , m. ikegami , f. naito , t. kato , n. hayashizaki , s.c .",
    "joshi , a.ueno , for providing creative atmosphere of the joint work , discussions , recommendations , reasonable objections and all time - warm human relations .",
    "g.dome , review and survey of accelerating structures . in linear accelerators ,",
    "p. lapostolle.- ams .",
    "north - holland publ .",
    "co. , 1970 e.a .",
    "knapp et al . , standing wave accelerating structures for high energy linacs .",
    "instr . , v. 39 , n. 7 , p. 31",
    "knapp et al . , coupled resonator model for standing wave accelerators tanks .",
    "instr . , v. 38 , n. 11 , p. 22",
    ", 1967 v.g .",
    "kulman et al , accelerating structure with annular coupling cells .",
    "instruments and experimental techniques , v. 4 , p. 56",
    ", 1970 v.g .",
    "andreev , structure with alternating accelerating field .",
    "journal of technical physics , n. 41 , p. 788",
    ", 1971 b.p .",
    "murin ed . , linear ion accelerators , atomizdat , moscow , 1978 , ( in russian ) .",
    "report of the design study on the proton linac of the japanese hadron project [ ii ] , jhp 14 , kek 90 - 16 , kek , 1990 k. yoshino et al .",
    ", studies on water cooling of an acs high power model ( in japanese ) . proc .",
    "1991 linac meeting in japan .",
    "tokyo , p.242 , 1991 .",
    "k. yamasu et al . , fabrication technique of acs cavity .",
    "linac 1990 , p.150 , 1990 . y. morozumi et al . , multi - cell bridge coupler .",
    "linac 1990 , p.153 , 1990 . t. kageyama et al . , a high - power model of the acs cavity .",
    "linac 1990 , p.47 , 1990 . v. paramonov , the annular coupled structure optimization for jaeri / kek joint project for high intensity proton accelerator .",
    "kek report 2001 - 14 , 2001 v.paramonov , s. tarasov , the possibility of multipactoring discharge in coupling cells of coupled cells accelerating structures .",
    "linac 1998 , p.971 , 1998 .",
    "spallaqtion neuron source ( sns ) coupled - cavity linac hot model .",
    "la-13945 , ( sns 101020000-tr0001-r00 ) , los alamos , 2001 v. paramonov , the coupled cell structures parameters for the large bore hole diameter , kek report 2002 - 5a , kek , 2002 v. paramonov , n. hayashizaki , y. yamazaki . power - handling capability of the annular coupled structure linac for the jaeri / kek project .",
    "linac 1992 , p. 752",
    ", 2002 s.c .",
    "joshi , rf - thermal - structural analysis of acs structure , kek internal , 2001 - 6 , 2001 s. konecni , n. bultman .",
    "analysis of the slot heating of the coupled cavity linac .",
    "proc , pac 2001 , p. 900"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the normal conducting annular coupled structure ( acs ) is applied for 190 - 400 mev part of high intensity proton linac for the j - parc . </S>",
    "<S> the acs operating frequency is 972 mhz . </S>",
    "<S> the j - parc acs is strongly based on the results of previous investigations , especially results of japan hadron project ( jhp ) research program in kek . </S>",
    "<S> however , the design was revised and optimized to meet the requirements of reliability , operation efficiency and cost reduction . </S>",
    "<S> + the cells shape of accelerating cells was optimized in total energy range to have high shunt impedance value together with the careful matching with the decreased coupling cells . </S>",
    "<S> the design of the bridge coupler cells was optimized to simplify mass production and shape of rf input cell together with matching window were optimized for higher operational reliability . </S>",
    "<S> + collected and adjusted all together , these modifications result in the significant effect . </S>",
    "<S> the acs module design does nt lose to another possible accelerating structures in rf parameters and dimensions . </S>",
    "<S> previously developed for l - band acs fabrication technique is applied to @xmath0 mhz acs construction . </S>",
    "<S> the realized solutions have the reserve for acs module use with very high heat loading during operations with @xmath1 duty factor , the highest heat loading at present time , as compared to accelerating modules with another normal conducting accelerating structures , realized in hadron linacs . + </S>",
    "<S> this report contains the descriptions and explanations of changes in the acs module physical design for the j - parc linac .    </S>",
    "<S> the summary for optimization of the annular coupled structure    accelerating module physical design    for high intensity hadron linac    kek , tsukuba , 2013    @xmath2 - permanent address - institute for nuclear research of the ras , 117312 , moscow , russia </S>"
  ]
}