{
  "article_text": [
    "old , compact star clusters have traditionally been classified into several types .",
    "these include globular clusters ( gcs ) first discovered in 1665 by abraham ihle ( as noted by schultz 1866 ) .",
    "they are compact ( having projected half - light sizes r@xmath0 of @xmath13 pc ) and span a wide range of mass . all large galaxies , including our own milky way , host a system of gcs .    in the last decade , several new types of star cluster containing an old stellar population have been identified .",
    "deep imaging of the nearby lenticular galaxy ngc 1023 by the hubble space telescope and spectroscopic follow - up using the 10 m keck i telescope revealed a population of low luminosity gc - like objects with large sizes ( @xmath1 10 pc ) dubbed faint fuzzies ( ffs ) by @xcite .",
    "objects with similar sizes and luminosities were discovered around m31 by @xcite and named extended clusters ( ecs ) .",
    "similar extended objects have been identified in galaxies ranging from dwarfs to giant ellipticals ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) , and may be related to the palomar - type gcs found in the outer halo of the milky way .",
    "searches beyond the local group have revealed an additional population of star clusters called ultra compact dwarfs ( ucds ; drinkwater et al .",
    "these spherical collections of stars were first thought to be very compact dwarf galaxies but they also resemble extended ( r@xmath0 @xmath2 10 pc ) gcs , some two magnitudes brighter than ec / ffs .",
    "the origin of these various star clusters ( gcs , ec / ffs and ucds ) and their relationship to each other is the subject of debate ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the size and luminosity distribution of star clusters was summarised recently by @xcite ( to download database see : + http://sages.ucolick.org/downloads/sizetable.txt ) .",
    "they included all types of known star cluster with old ( @xmath3 5 gyr ) stellar ages .",
    "they also restricted their sample to objects with _ confirmed _ distances .",
    "this is important if one is exploring size and luminosity trends , but this has not always been the case in the literature . from size and luminosity , the projected surface and volume densities can also be derived .    in figure 1",
    "we show the fundamental parameters of size and luminosity from this state - of - the - art compilation for long - lived star clusters .",
    "the figure shows a u - shaped distribution .",
    "the high luminosity , extended star clusters are generally referred to as ucds , the base of the u - shape is occupied by compact gcs and the low luminosity , extended size regime is associated with ecs and ffs .",
    "two extreme milky way gcs are highlighted in the figure ; ngc 2419 ( the largest galactic gc , which lies in the region near low luminosity ucds ) and @xmath4 cen ( the most luminous galactic gc ) .",
    "the figure shows that star clusters with v band magnitudes m@xmath5 brighter than 10 and projected half - light radii r@xmath0 greater than 5 pc are very rare , if not completely absent , in the local group of galaxies which is dominated by the milky way and andromeda .",
    "only a few objects beyond the local group are known with m@xmath5 fainter than 8.5 .",
    "this corresponds to an apparent magnitude limit of v @xmath6 22.5 at the distance of the virgo cluster ( a typical limiting magnitude for spectroscopic studies on 8 m class telescopes ) .",
    "the exception is the deep hst and keck telescope observations of ffs in ngc 1023 by @xcite .",
    "the figure also highlights the lack of very compact , very luminous objects , i.e. those with ultra high densities .",
    "it has been argued by @xcite that feedback from massive stars sets an upper density limit , beyond which star clusters do not form .",
    "a typical uncertainty in star cluster size is shown lower left .",
    "the diagonal dashed lines denote lines of constant surface density , i.e. 10@xmath7 and 10 solar luminosities per parsec squared .",
    "star clusters would be easily detectable in the lower right side of this diagram if they existed .",
    "the upper left portion in this diagram is associated with lower densities and lower surface brightnesses ; hence objects become increasingly difficult to confirm observationally . the distribution of known old star clusters shows a u - shape with a clear lack of confirmed objects ( highlighted by the yellow shaded region ) , which has been called the star cluster ` avoidance zone ' by hwang et al .",
    "( 2011 ) . , scaledwidth=48.0% ]    however , perhaps the most interesting feature of figure 1 is the deficiency of objects around m@xmath8 and r@xmath9 pc , i.e. sizes and luminosities intermediate between ec / ffs and ucds .",
    "this gap in the size - luminosity distribution has been called the star cluster ` avoidance zone ' by @xcite .",
    "such a gap could be due to physical processes or to an observational selection effect .",
    "a real gap would imply that ec / ffs are physically distinct from low luminosity ucds and hence are formed by different mechanisms that have inherent upper and lower mass limits respectively .",
    "continuity across the gap might suggest that one family of star cluster has a wider range of properties than previously known or that a new type of star cluster exists .    here",
    "we briefly present the recession velocities , and hence physical sizes and luminosities for extended ( r@xmath0 @xmath2 5pc ) star clusters around three elliptical galaxies . in particular , we investigate whether these star clusters occupy the ` avoidance zone ' seen in figure 1 or not .",
    "to identify potential star clusters in the ` avoidance zone ' the candidates need to be resolved in order to measure their sizes .",
    "this is best achieved with the superior spatial resolution of the hubble space telescope ( hst ) .",
    "a small number of nearby elliptical galaxies have been imaged by hst in two filters ( required for colour selection ) and over half a dozen pointings ( needed to identify a large number of candidate star clusters associated with each galaxy ) . in particular ,",
    "half - light sizes have been measured from g and z band hst / acs images for candidate star clusters in ngc 4278 by usher et al .",
    "( 2013 , in prep . ) and ngc 4649 by strader et al .",
    "( 2012 ) . in both",
    "the usher et al . and strader et al .",
    "works , objects were selected on the basis of having colours that matched those expected of candidate star clusters .",
    "sizes were then determined using the ishape software and visual inspection to remove obvious background galaxies . for ngc 4697",
    "a similar procedure was used .",
    "the galaxies are located at distances of 15.6 mpc ( ngc 4278 ) , 17.3 mpc ( ngc 4649 ) and 11.4 mpc ( ngc 4697 ) . at these distances",
    "hst can resolve sizes as small as 12 pc .",
    "after selecting resolved star cluster candidates ( with gc - like colours ) around these three galaxies , we designed several multi - object slit masks for the deimos instrument on the 10 m keck ii telescope .",
    "typical exposures of 2 hrs , in 0.81.2 arcsec seeing conditions during the nights of 2013 january 11 - 12 , were obtained .",
    "the resulting spectra were reduced using standard procedures and radial velocities measured , e.g. following the method of @xcite . for each galaxy we confirmed several tens of gcs , with sizes of @xmath13 pc , to have velocities consistent with that of their host galaxy .",
    "a small number of background galaxies , with significantly higher velocities , were confirmed in each mask .",
    "their magnitudes , colors and angular sizes of the background galaxies are provided in the appendix .",
    "here we focus on the confirmed objects with sizes greater than 5 pc .",
    "table 1 lists their magnitudes , colours , average half - light radii from the g and z bands and apparent v band magnitudes from the transformation : @xmath10 ( based on a large sample of gcs from usher et al . 2013 , in prep . ) .",
    "ids for the objects come from usher et al .",
    "( 2013 , in prep . ) , strader et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and this work for ngc 4278 , 4649 and 4697 respectively ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> it is not understood whether long - lived star clusters possess a continuous range of sizes and masses ( and hence densities ) , or if rather , they should be considered as distinct types with different origins . utilizing the hubble space telescope ( hst ) to measure sizes , and long exposures on the keck 10 m telescope to obtain distances </S>",
    "<S> , we have discovered the first confirmed star clusters that lie within a previously claimed size - luminosity gap dubbed the ` avoidance zone ' by hwang et al ( 2011 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the existence of these star clusters extends the range of sizes , masses and densities for star clusters , and argues against current formation models that predict well - defined size - mass relationships ( such as stripped nuclei , giant globular clusters or merged star clusters ) . </S>",
    "<S> the red colours of these gap objects suggests that they are not a new class of object but are related to faint fuzzies observed in nearby lenticular galaxies . we also report a number of low luminosity ucds with sizes of up to 50 pc . </S>",
    "<S> future , statistically complete , studies will be encouraged now that it is known that star clusters possess a continuous range of structural properties .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : formation  galaxies : star clusters  globular clusters : general </S>"
  ]
}