{
  "article_text": [
    "in the currently popular orientation - based unified scheme ( ous ) , due to geometrical projection , the observed sizes of quasars should appear smaller than those of radio galaxies ( rgs ) .",
    "such a thing was noticed by barthel ( 1989 ) in the redshift range @xmath1 in the 3crr ( 3rd cambridge twice revised ) sample ( laing et al . 1983 ) , based on which he proposed ous .",
    "he suggested that both rgs and quasars belong to the same parent population of radio sources , and that a source appears as a quasar only when its major radio - axis happens to be oriented within a certain critical angle ( @xmath2 ) around the observer s line of sight .",
    "taking a cue from the case of the radio galaxy 3c234 and the seyfert galaxy ngc1068 ( antonucci 1984 ; antonucci & miller 1985 ) , barthel proposed that the nuclear continuum and broad - line optical emission region is surrounded by an optically - thick torus and @xmath2 is the half cone - opening angle of the torus . in this model , in the case of rgs the observer s line of sight passes through the obscured region which hides the bright optical nucleus and the broad - line region .",
    "rgs and quasars are otherwise considered to be intrinsically indistinguishable and all differences in their observed radio properties are attributed to their supposedly different orientations with respect to the observer s line of sight ; in particular , the observed smaller values of radio sizes of quasars in barthel s 3crr sample were attributed to their larger geometric projection effects because of the smaller inclinations of their radio axes with respect to the observer s line of sight . recently in an about five times deeper mrc ( molonglo reference catalogue ) sample ( kapahi et al .",
    "1998a , b ) such a difference in radio sizes of quasar and rgs was not seen ( singal & singh 2013 ) , casting serious doubts on the unified scheme models .",
    "since the two samples ( 3crr and mrc ) have somewhat different flux - density limits , a question could arise that do two samples differing merely by a factor of five in flux - density , have radio source populations that differ so much that there could be such a large qualitative difference in the relative size distributions of rgs and quasars between the two samples ? or perhaps what is more pertinent here , what would have been the verdict if these two samples were at roughly a similar flux - density level ?",
    "we examine this issue here by using a sample , selected from the equatorial sky region , whose selection criteria are very similar to those of the 3crr , and which presently is perhaps the best available sample to match the 3crr sample .",
    "for our investigations we have chosen the radio complete brl sample ( best et al .",
    "1999 ) at 408 mhz , selected from the molonglo reference catalogue ( large et al .",
    "1981 ) according to the criteria @xmath3 jy , @xmath4 and @xmath5 , and after rejecting the known galactic sources .",
    "the chosen flux - density limit of the sample when translated to 178 mhz using a typical spectral index of 0.85 , corresponds roughly to the flux - density limit of the 3crr sample .",
    "the sample is thus selected to have properties similar to the northern 3crr sample , and to be visible to a combination of existing northern telescopes such as the vla and large southern hemisphere telescope facilities .",
    "the sample is now 100 per cent optically identified and redshifts are now available for all 178 sources ( best et al .",
    "2000 , 2003 ) in the sample that comprises 127 rgs , 49 quasars , one starburst galaxy and one seyfert galaxy . from the overall redshift distributions ,",
    "the brl sample does look similar to the 3crr sample ( cf .",
    "53 of best et al .",
    "we have taken the radio and optical parameters for various sources from table 2 of best et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , where it has all the required information for the sample in a tabular form .",
    "among the rgs there are 14 broad - line radio galaxies ( blrgs ) .",
    "it is well known that the emission - line spectra for blrgs is very much similar to that of the distant quasars ( see e.g. osterbrock & mathews 1986 ) and it may be more appropriate to treat blrgs as quasars . therefore we have clubbed blrgs with quasars , making it 63 quasars and 113 rgs in the sample .",
    "the sample includes 14 sources ( 11 quasars and 3 rgs ) with spectral index @xmath6 ( with @xmath7 ) ; we have excluded these flat - spectrum cases , since these mostly are core - dominant cases where the relativistic beaming might introduce serious selection effects . as only the powerful rgs",
    "are supposed to partake in unification with quasars , we have confined ourselves to only the strong sources with @xmath8 w hz@xmath9 ( for @xmath10 km  s@xmath9mpc@xmath9 , @xmath11 , and @xmath12 ; spergel et al .",
    "this limit corresponds to the fr i / ii luminosity break @xmath13 w hz@xmath9 sr@xmath9 ( for @xmath14 km  s@xmath9mpc@xmath9 ) of fanaroff & riley ( 1974 ) .",
    "there are 10 rgs below the fri / ii luminosity break , which we have excluded ; the quasars in any case are all falling above this luminosity limit .",
    "also in the brl sample there is a large fraction ( @xmath15 ) of compact steep spectrum sources ( csss ; linear size @xmath16 kpc ) , comprising 14 rgs and 9 quasars .",
    "the csss have their dominant radio emission on sub - galactic scales and thus might be a different class than the frii class of sources whose unification is sought in ous ( barthel 1989 ) , and have therefore been excluded .",
    "our final brl sample then contains 131 sources , with 88 rgs and 43 quasars . for the 3crr sample we have taken the optical and radio data from _ https://www.astrosci.ca/users/willottc/3crr/3crr.html_ , which maintains latest updates of the laing et al .",
    "( 1983 ) data .",
    "it should be noted that the steep spectrum quasars and frii rgs almost always have edge - brightened radio morphologies with bright hot - spots near extremities , which makes it possible to define size of the radio source between the hot - spots , independent of the sensitivity of the observing telescope , both for the brl and 3crr samples .",
    "since we intend to compare the size distributions in the brl sample with those in the 3crr sample , for uniformity sake we have applied exactly the same selection criteria for the 3crr sample as well , whereby in the latter we get 130 sources , with 85 rgs and 45 quasars .",
    "1 shows a normalized cumulative distribution of the linear sizes of all rgs and quasars in the brl sample . in the total brl sample",
    "the fraction of quasars is @xmath17 , implying only about one third of the sources are quasars , similar to what was seen in the 3crr sample of barthel ( 1989 ) , based on which ous ( with a cone opening angle @xmath18 ) , was proposed . in a picture",
    "consistent with ous , brl quasar sizes should also be statistically smaller than of rgs by a factor of two , but we do not find it to be so ( fig .",
    "1 ) , in disagreement with ous . fig .",
    "2 shows a normalized cumulative distribution of the linear sizes of rgs and quasars in three different redshift bins .",
    "the first thing we note from the figure is that the relative numbers of rgs and quasars as well as their radio sizes vary from one redshift bin to another . at",
    "low redshifts ( @xmath19 ) number of quasars is relatively very small while in the intermediate redshift bin it is rather large .",
    "the relative size distributions also show similar disparities . in the @xmath19 ( fig .",
    "2a ) and @xmath20 bins ( fig .",
    "2b ) quasars sizes do not appear in any way systematically smaller than those of rgs , thus negating the geometric - foreshortening hypothesis of ous , however in the @xmath21 bin ( fig .",
    "2c ) , the quasar sizes are a factor of two smaller than those of rgs .    as there are a large number of csss cases ( @xmath22 ) in the brl sample , in fig .",
    "3 we have included csss to check if some of unexpected results could be due to their presence . a comparison of figs . 2 and 3 shows that there is almost no change in our above results , except perhaps in the intermediate redshift bin ( @xmath20 ) , where quasars appear slightly larger in sizes than rgs . in any case",
    "there is no evidence at least for @xmath23 , that quasars sizes are smaller due to geometric projection according to ous .",
    "the results are summarized in table 1 , which is organized in the following manner : ( 1 ) sample used ( brl or 3crr ) .",
    "( 2 ) redshift bin . ( 3 ) number of rgs in that bin . ( 4 ) number of quasars in that bin . ( 5 ) fraction of quasars in that bin . ( 6 ) median value ( kpc ) of size distribution for rgs . ( 7 ) median value ( kpc ) of size distribution for quasars .    from table 1 , we see that the relative number of rgs and quasars ( or equivalently the quasar fraction @xmath24 ) in various redshift bins fluctuates significantly between the two samples .",
    "quasar sizes are marginally larger than those of rgs in the lowest redshift bin ( @xmath19 ) in both samples , but in the intermediate redshift bin , while 3crr data show compatibility with ous ( not surprising since barthel used only these data to propose ous ) , in the brl sample things appear different .",
    "number of quasars seems more than of rgs and the size ratio is less than 1.4 , while for the 3crr case the size ratio in this bin is 2.4 .",
    "in fact a kolmogorov - smirnov ( k - s ) test shows that it is only at a very low ( @xmath25 ) confidence level one could state that the two size distributions in the brl sample in this redshift bin are different , in other words the two size distributions ( fig .",
    "2b ) are almost indistinguishable statistically .",
    "in the high redshift ( @xmath21 ) bin the quasar sizes are about a factor of two or more smaller than those of rgs in both samples .",
    "it might sound in accordance with ous , but the numbers of rgs and quasars are consistent with ous only in the brl sample . in the 3crr case",
    "there are too many quasars ( or too few rgs ) .",
    "but what is even more surprising is that the sizes of rgs and quasars in the brl sample are a factor of @xmath26 smaller than those of 3crr rgs and quasars in this high redshift bin .",
    "@cccccccc sample & redshift bin & ng & nq & @xmath24 & @xmath27(g ) & @xmath27(q ) + ( 1)&(2)&(3)&(4)&(5)&(6)&(7 ) + brl & @xmath19 & 53 & 17 & 0.24 & 192 & 238 + 3crr & @xmath19 & 43 & 13 & 0.23 & 290 & 383 +   + brl & @xmath28 & 13 & 16 & 0.55 & 159 & 116 + 3crr & @xmath28 & 27 & 14 & 0.34 & 260 & 110 +   + brl & @xmath21 & 22 & 10 & 0.31 & 85 & 39 + 3crr & @xmath21 & 15 & 18 & 0.55 & 206 & 107 +",
    "it was only a limited redshift range ( @xmath1 ) in the 3crr sample that barthel ( 1989 ) had investigated to propose ous .",
    "singal ( 1993 ) has subsequently shown that the data in other redshift bins in the 3crr sample itself does not seem to conform to the ous scenario .",
    "the situation looks particularly grave in the redshift range @xmath19 , where according to antonucci ( 2012 ) `` all hell breaks loose '' .",
    "not only is there a huge excess of rgs over the quasars , but also the quasar sizes are not very different from those of rgs .",
    "this has been later explained in the literature by proposing that there is a large population of low - excitation galaxies ( legs ) , which make a significant contribution to the number of fr  ii - type radio galaxies at low redshifts ( see e.g. hine & longair 1979 ) .",
    "laing et al .",
    "( 1994 ) have pointed out that these optically dull legs are unlikely to appear as quasars when seen end - on and that these should be excluded from the sample while testing the unified scheme models . from infrared observations",
    "also there is evidence of a population of powerful radio galaxies , concentrated at low redshifts , which lack the hidden quasar ( see antonucci 2012 and the references therein )",
    ". using both x - ray and mid - ir data , hardcastle et al .",
    "( 2009 ) showed convincingly that almost all objects classed as legs in optical spectroscopic studies lack a radiatively efficient active nucleus .",
    "thus such a population of fr ii rgs with no hidden quasars , concentrated only at low redshifts ( @xmath29 ) could make the apparently anomalous number and size distributions of rgs and quasars at low redshifts in the 3crr sample ( singal 1993 ) consistent with ous , and perhaps it might also hold true for the brl sample .",
    "the overall redshift distribution was shown by best et al ( 1999 ) to be similar to that of the 3crr , with a large excess of rgs at low redshifts ( @xmath19 ) , which is consistent with a large population of legs at these redshifts .",
    "therefore it is perhaps not that surprising that the quasar sizes do not seem smaller than those of the rgs in the @xmath19 bin as even the 3crr data had shown this anomaly ( singal 1993 ) .",
    "however , what is of more concern is that in the intermediate redshift bin ( @xmath20 ) also the quasar numbers and sizes do not seem systematically smaller than of the rgs in the brl sample ( fig .",
    "after all it was this redshift bin which barthel ( 1989 ) had examined for the 3crr sample and found quasar numbers as well as radio sizes to be about half of rgs and and that was the prime basis for the ous hypothesis .",
    "however , in a matched independent brl sample , the quasar numbers or sizes are not in the same way smaller than of rgs in this particular redshift bin .",
    "this is rather disconcerting , as the brl sample is supposed to be very similar to the 3crr one , with all selection criteria matched with those of the 3crr , except that it is from a different ( equatorial ) sky region .",
    "we may add here that best et al .",
    "( 1999 ) have used a combined sample of brl and 3crr sources and reached a conclusion that the combined data are consistent with ous .",
    "in fact they found quasars sizes to be about a factor of two smaller than those of rgs for @xmath30 . to verify that we are not getting different result from them because of our somewhat different methodology",
    ", we used our procedure on the combined brl+3crr sample and the results are shown in fig .",
    "4 . of course in the low redshift bin ( @xmath19 ) we find the same problem that quasars are larger in size than rgs .",
    "best et al . ( 1999 ) had almost no quasars in this redshift bin ( their fig .",
    "58 ) because they had included blrgs with rgs while we have counted them with quasars ( a better thing to do ) .",
    "but in other redshift bins our results for the combined sample are more or less consistent with best et al .",
    "( apart from some differences due to blrgs ) . it should be noted that in the intermediate redshift range ( @xmath20 ) much larger numbers of rgs in the 3crr sample makes it dominant and therefore its influence on size distribution more pronounced in the combined sample .",
    "also the quasar fraction in our combined sample ( @xmath31 ) at @xmath30 is similar to that seen in fig .",
    "57 of best et al .",
    "however when examined by itself alone , the brl sample does seem to violate ous in the @xmath32 bin .",
    "one could perhaps get away with the apparent anomaly in size distribution for both brl and 3crr samples in the redshift range @xmath33 because it could be explained by a large number of legs there with relatively smaller radio sizes to offset the large sizes of high excitation rgs , and for which there is some evidence in the 3crr case ( hardcastle et al .",
    "1998 ) . but how to do a similar thing at higher redshifts in the brl sample",
    "for example in the 3crr data , while there are 16 legs out of total 43 radio galaxies in the @xmath33 redshift bin , there is only one leg found among 27 radio galaxies in the @xmath1 redshift bin , which is insignificant to affect results either way .",
    "if we propose the presence of a large leg population in the brl sample that might exist at @xmath1 as well , we will not be still able to explain the observed anomaly .",
    "such a proposal will go against ous because already there is a lack of sufficient number of rgs in this redshift bin , and if some out of them are legs with no hidden quasars and thus not partaking in ous , then the problem becomes even more acute .    to test that the brl and 3crr samples have statistically significant differences",
    ", we have performed the k - s test on their cumulative radio size distributions .",
    "5 shows a plot of the cumulative radio size distributions for radio sources ( rgs+quasars ) in brl and 3crr samples .",
    "the k - s test shows at a 92% confidence level for them to be drawn from different populations .",
    "perhaps it might be better to apply the test to rgs and quasars separately in the two samples .",
    "6 shows cumulative radio size distributions separately for rgs and quasars in the two samples .",
    "when we apply the k - s test to cumulative radio size distributions of quasars alone , we get again similar result as above .",
    "however when we apply the k - s test to rgs alone , then we find the two distributions to be drawn from different populations at a confidence level of 99.7% .",
    "this of course is very surprising as the two samples have been selected using almost the same criteria .",
    "in fact one wonders , for example , if one had the brl sample available first ( instead of the 3crr sample ) , then perhaps the story of ous would have been very different , or perhaps there would have been no such orientation - based unified scheme of powerful radio galaxies and quasars .",
    "this brings us to a question whose scope goes much beyond ous .",
    "why do samples selected from two different parts of the sky but using almost the same selection criteria , show so different statistics of numbers as well as size distributions of radio galaxies and quasars ?",
    "as already mentioned , the overall number ratios and redshift distributions do match in the two samples considered here .",
    "but as evident from table 1 , when we separate out the rgs and quasars in the samples , dividing them into different redshift bins , then the distributions in the two samples seem to differ qualitatively .",
    "while in the 3crr sample ous seems to be holding true in the intermediate redshift range @xmath28 , in the brl sample it seems to be so only at @xmath21 .",
    "but then this is against the basic spirit of ous where both rgs and quasars belong to the same parent population of radio sources , independent of redshift .",
    "thus with its basic tenet , that the observed quasar sizes should be smaller than of rgs everywhere , having been violated , ous seems to be precluded by the brl sample .",
    "there are other genuine differences which could not be due to some selection effects .",
    "for example , there are much larger number of csss in brl ( 15% ) as compared to 5% in the 3crr sample , while the total numbers of sources in both samples are almost the same .",
    "then there are 15% fris in 3crr catalogue , while in brl they are only 7% or so .",
    "such differences need to be examined more thoroughly to find their statistical significance , as the radio source population should be similar in all sky regions ( copernican principle ! ) , irrespective of whether or not the unified scheme holds good . here",
    "we may point out that on a close examination , the 3crr sample has shown large anomalies in the distribution of numbers and sizes of radio sources in different regions of the sky ( singal 2013 ) .",
    "it remains to be seen how much contribution the ous hypothesis has from these anomalies in the 3crr sample .",
    "however , a similar anomaly is not seen in the brl sample , therefore our present results are robust .",
    "we have shown that contrary to the expectations in ous models , observed quasar sizes are not everywhere systematically smaller than those of galaxies in an independent but equivalent sample to that of the 3crr .",
    "the absence of this foreshortening of the sizes of quasars as compared to those of rgs of similar flux densities or at similar redshifts , is inconsistent with the unified scheme models .",
    "while the two samples have roughly the same overall numbers of sources each , their distributions among rgs and quasars as a function of redshift do not seem to match , nor do the size distributions show similarities .",
    "it looks like that barthel s observation that sizes and numbers of quasars were smaller than rgs was perhaps merely a statistical coincident or arose from some anomalies in the 3crr sample , as similar things are not seen in other samples whether in a weaker mrc sample ( singal & singh 2013 ) or in a 3crr - like strong - source brl sample . further there seems to be some large genuine differences in the two samples , selected using similar criteria , in two different regions of the sky that are rather intriguing and not in concordance with the conventional wisdom which expects an isotropic sky .",
    "antonucci , r. , 1984 , apj , 278 , 499 antonucci , r. , 2012 , astr .",
    "trans . , 4 , 557 antonucci , r. r. j. , & miller , j. s , .",
    "1985 , apj , 297 , 621 barthel , p. d. , 1989 , apj , 336 , 606 best , p. n. , rttgering , h. j. a. , & lehnert , m. d. , 1999 , mnras , 310 , 223 best , p. n. , rttgering , h. j. a. , & lehnert , m. d. , 2000 , mnras , 315 , 21 best , p. n. , peacock , j. a. , brookes , m. h. , dowsett , r. e. , rttgering , h. j. a. , donlop , j. s. , & lehnert , m. d. , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 1021 fanaroff , b. l. , & riley , j. m. , 1974 , mnras , 167 , 31p hardcastle , m. j. , alexander , p. , pooley , g. g. , & riley , j. m. , 1998 , mnras , 296 , 445 hardcastle , m. j. , evans , d. a. , & croston , j. h. , 2009 , mnras , 396 , 1929 hine r. g. , longair m. s. , 1979 , mnras , 188 , 111 kapahi , v. k. , athreya , r. m. , van breugel , w. , mccarthy , p. j. , & subrahmanya , c. r. , 1998a , apjs , 118 , 275 kapahi , v. k. , et al . , 1998b , apjs , 118 , 327 laing , r. a. , riley , j. m. , & longair , m. s. , 1983 , mnras , 204 , 151 laing r. a. , jenkins c. r. , wall j. v. , unger s. w. , 1994 , in bicknell v. , dopita m. a. , quinn p. j. , eds , asp conf . ser . vol .",
    "54 , the first stromlo symposium : the physics of active galaxies .",
    "asp , san francisco , p. 201",
    "large m. i. , mills b. y. , little a. g. , crawford d. f. , sutton j. m. , 1981 , mnras , 194 , 693 osterbrock d. e. , mathews w. g. , 1986 , ara&a , 24 , 171 singal a. k. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , l27 singal , a. k. , 2013 , ( submitted ) , arxiv:1305.4134 singal , a. k. & singh , r. l. , 2013 , apj , 766 , 37 spergel , d. n , et al . , 2003 , apjs , 148 , 175"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the consistency of the unified scheme of the powerful extragalactic radio sources with the 408 mhz brl sample from the equatorial sky region , selected at the same flux - density level as the 3crr sample . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , unlike in the 3crr sample , a foreshortening in the observed sizes of quasars , expected from the orientation - based unified scheme model , is not seen in the brl sample , at least in different redshift bins up to @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> even the quasar fraction in individual redshift bins up to @xmath0 does not match with that expected from the unified scheme , where radio galaxies and quasars are supposed to belong to a common parent population at all redshifts . </S>",
    "<S> this not only casts strong doubts on the unified scheme , but also throws up an intriguing result that in a sample selected from the equatorial sky region , using almost the same criteria as in the 3crr sample from the northern hemisphere , the relative distribution of radio galaxies and quasars differs qualitatively from the 3crr sample .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active - galaxies : nuclei - galaxies : seyfert - quasars : general - radio continuum : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}