{
  "article_text": [
    "lasers in the x - ray domain , with wavelengths of the order of the atomic size , have been reported in the literature @xcite .",
    "we must study the underlying physics in that unexplored range of ultrashort wavelengths .",
    "in particular , we must analyze the behavior of the light - matter interaction . in order to carry out the analysis in a simple way",
    ", we shall consider a well - known scheme , the kapitza - dirac effect , which can be described with simple mathematical tools . in the kapitza - dirac effect",
    "a beam of atoms or electrons is diffracted or scattered by a standing light wave @xcite .",
    "the effect can be extended to two - particle systems @xcite .",
    "first of all , we must derive the form of the light - atom interaction in this regime .",
    "we shall show that the dynamics is ruled by a lightshift potential in the dipole approximation .",
    "being the light wavelength comparable to the atomic size , different parts of the atom feel different values of the field and the dipole approximation provides an incomplete description of the problem .",
    "we must consider higher multipole terms , in particular the quadrupole one .",
    "however , because of the high frequency of the light field we must average the interaction on time .",
    "the average of the higher permanent multipole terms is zero , reducing the total interaction to the usual lightshift potential in the dipole approximation .",
    "we shall also consider the quadrupole induced by the electric field .",
    "the evaluation of its actual contribution to the problem is difficult because of the lack of reliable experimental data on quadrupole or higher order polarizabilities .",
    "nevertheless we shall show that if these effects were of the same order of the lightshift potential they would not modify the fundamental results of our paper .    in the standard atomic kapitza - dirac arrangement",
    "the wavelength of the optical grating is close to an atomic transition , enhancing the strength of the interaction .",
    "the very short wavelengths we consider in this paper are fully detuned from the atomic transitions , making much more weak the light - atom interaction , which is only related to the atomic polarizability .",
    "however , considering a laser intensity of the order of @xmath0 ( the values used in the observation of the effect with electrons @xcite ) the strength of the light - atom interaction is comparable to that in the on resonance case and we can , in principle , observe the diffraction effects .",
    "we shall evaluate the diffraction patterns , obtaining the same form of the standard atomic kapitza - dirac arrangement ( containing only even order peaks ) .",
    "the high frequency values of the light can give rise , depending on the duration of the interaction , to the presence of large ionization rates which would make more difficult the observation of the diffraction effects .",
    "in these cases one must introduce some procedure to remove the ionized atoms from the experiment .",
    "in addition to provide an example of light - matter interaction in the scale of very short wavelengths , our proposal is also interesting from a fundamental point of view .",
    "there has been an increasing interest in the study of quantum diffraction with large size objects , for instance , with @xmath1 @xcite and @xmath2 @xcite molecules in solid nanostructures or structures made of light @xcite , and @xmath3 molecules whose de broglie wavelength is smaller than their size @xcite .",
    "however , there is yet a fundamental question that has not been addressed , the limiting size ( relative to the spacing of the diffraction grating ) of a quantum object to observe diffraction . our proposal can be the basis to study quantum diffraction in the extreme regime where the periodicity of the diffraction optical grating is similar to the size of the diffracted system .",
    "the plan of the paper is as follows . in sect .",
    "2 we present the arrangement and evaluate the lightshift potential relevant for the problem . in order to give a compact presentation of the main ideas involved in the evaluation ,",
    "some more technical aspects of the treatment are discussed in appendix 1 . in sect .",
    "3 we derive the diffraction patterns and consider how to eliminate the ionized atoms .",
    "the values of the parameters involved in a realistic experimental implementation of the arrangement are estimated in sect .",
    "4 . in the discussion",
    ", we consider the potential impact of our proposal for other physical problems , in particular , the exploration of the limits of quantum diffraction with large size objects . finally , the possible effects associated with a large quadrupole polarizability are presented in appendix 2 .",
    "as usual in the kapitza - dirac effect our arrangement consists of a standing light wave generated by a laser .",
    "a beam of atoms interacts with that diffraction grating . behind the grating we place detectors . from the data collected at the detectors we can infer the diffraction patterns",
    "( see fig .",
    "next , we consider the mathematical description of the interaction .",
    "first of all , we note that we shall deal with high laser intensities",
    ". then we can resort to the semiclassical approximation , where the electromagnetic fields can be treated classically . in appendix 1",
    "we estimate the intensity values for which we can safely use this approximation in the framework of the kapitza - dirac effect .",
    "the adiabatic condition plays an important role in this type of problem .",
    "when it is fulfilled , the time dependence of the effective optical potential experienced by the atoms is slow compared to the internal evolution . the center of mass ( cm ) dynamics can be decoupled from the internal one , and it can be described by an optical potential , generating a phase shift as a function of position @xcite . as we shall see later ( sect .",
    "3 ) , the adiabatic condition is by far fulfilled in our case .",
    "once guaranteed adiabatic evolution , we can concentrate on the cm dynamics . the phase shift of the cm wavefunction is given by the dipole - type interaction between the electric field @xmath4 and the induced atomic dipole @xmath5 , with @xmath6 the polarizability .",
    "we describe this interaction by the lightshift potential @xcite @xmath7 where @xmath8 denotes the cm coordinate of the atom .",
    "being the cm timescale very different from the laser period , we must average over that period . if we take for the electric field of the standing wave the form @xmath9 with @xmath10 and @xmath11 the wavevector and frequency of the laser , the averaged lightshift potential takes the form @xmath12 with @xmath13 .    in the framework of the dipole approximation",
    "there is yet another interaction channel ( see appendix 1 ) .",
    "in addition to the transitions between bound states that induce the atomic dipole , there can be also transitions to the continuum . as a matter of fact",
    ", due to the high energy of the involved photons we expect that absorption will lead in most cases to ionization , and the ionization rate in our problem can be large .",
    "this is not the case for the values of the parameters we shall propose to observe the effect ( see sect .",
    "however , for other values of the parameters the ionization rate could be large . in these cases , as we are only interested into the diffraction properties of the non - ionized atoms , we must consider an scheme to eliminate the ionized atoms . in the next section we present such an scheme .",
    "thus , due to the negligible value of the ionization rate in some cases and to the possibility of eliminate the ions in the rest of cases , we do not need to consider this interaction channel .",
    "up to now we have restricted our considerations to the leading dipole approximation . however , as remarked before , because the optical wavelength is comparable to the atomic size , the dipole approximation ( which assumes no relevant variations of the field in distances of the order of the atomic size ) does not provide a complete description of the problem .",
    "there are in the literature several examples of how to go beyond this approximation in the context of x - ray theory .",
    "for instance , quadrupole terms have been used to study x - ray spectroscopy @xcite , numerical non - dipole simulations of ionization by x - ray lasers have been presented in @xcite , and the bloch equations without the dipole approximation have been derived in @xcite . in this paper",
    "we follow the approach of considering higher multipole terms .",
    "let us consider the next term in the perturbative series , the permanent quadrupole term , which has the form ( see appendix 1 ) @xmath14 using the form of the electric field we have that @xmath15 .",
    "now , when performing the time average we have that the quadrupole interaction goes to zero . thus , although there is a quadrupole interaction associated with the field variations along the atom size , its net effect vanishes .",
    "as discussed in appendix 1 a similar conclusion holds for any higher order term .",
    "thus , all the averaged multipole permanent contributions vanish and the light - atom interaction can be described via the dipole approximation . in appendix 2",
    "we shall discuss how induced quadrupole multipoles could be present in the problem .    in conclusion",
    ", the analysis of this section shows that the light - atom interaction can be expressed in the form @xmath16 with @xmath17 .",
    "this is the usual lightshift potential used in the standard on resonance atomic kapitza - dirac effect .",
    "we have shown in the previous section the existence of two interaction channels in our arrangement .",
    "on the one hand , the large energy of the photons in the range of frequencies considered can lead , depending on the duration of the interaction , to a high ionization rate . on the other hand , the atoms that are not ionized",
    "generate a diffraction pattern .",
    "we are only interested into the observation of these patterns",
    ". then in the cases where the ionization is large we must remove the ionized atoms ( and the electrons ) in order to postselect the neutral ones .",
    "one can easily design methods able to extract the ionized atoms and electrons from the experiment .",
    "for instance , an electric field perpendicular to the plane where the experiment takes place ( perpendicular to the longitudinal and transversal directions ) would deviate most electrons and ions from the detectors , whereas the evolution of the neutral atoms would be almost unaffected .    after the removal of ions and electrons we can focus on the dynamics of the neutral atoms interacting with the lightshift potential .",
    "the state of the cm at time @xmath18 of the atoms with initial wavevector @xmath19 ( at time @xmath20 ) can be expressed as @xmath21 in the raman - nath approximation . in this approximation",
    "we assume that the momentum of the atoms is large compared to that of the photons .",
    "then the kinetic energy remains approximately constant and may be neglected .",
    "as it is well - known , this approximation is valid in the diffraction regime @xcite .",
    "the coordinate @xmath22 is that of the cm in the direction parallel to the granting .",
    "as usual in the kapitza - dirac effect we only consider the one - dimensional problem @xcite .    using the relation @xmath23 , with @xmath24 the n - th order bessel function , we have @xmath25 with @xmath26 the interaction time .",
    "this pattern shows the standard form in kapitza - dirac diffraction ( that with on resonance light - atom interaction ) .",
    "only even diffraction orders are present .",
    "the intensity of the peaks is given by @xmath27 .",
    "we analyze in this section the values of the parameters of the problem that would lead to observable effects in an experimental realization of the above arrangement .",
    "we shall use a wavelength @xmath28 .",
    "this wavelength differs in several orders of magnitude of those associated with atomic transitions , giving rise to a large detuning , which guarantees the adiabatic evolution in the problem .",
    "first of all , in order to be in the diffraction regime the coefficient @xmath29 , with @xmath30 the recoil shift of the atom by absorption of a photon , must be larger than unity @xcite . taking the mass of the atom as ten to twenty times the proton mass",
    ", we have @xmath31 , and we must take @xmath32 .    from this value of the potential we can deduce the intensity of the laser beam .",
    "we use the approximate relation @xmath33 and the definition of intensity @xmath34 .",
    "the atomic polarizability values are in the range of @xmath35 to @xmath36 @xcite .",
    "taking an atom in the high part of the range , @xmath37 , we would need a laser intensity of the order of @xmath0 .",
    "this can seem a very high value when compared with the intensities in the standard atomic kapitza - dirac effect ( @xmath38 ) .",
    "however , a value of @xmath39 has been used to demonstrate the effect with electrons @xcite .",
    "the proposed value of @xmath40 has already been reached with beam intensities as high as @xmath41 @xcite .",
    "note also that the proposed value , although very high , is yet a long way from the threshold of non - linear polarizabilities , around @xmath42 .",
    "the condition of high visibility of the interference pattern , @xmath43 @xcite , implies a time of interaction of around @xmath44 .",
    "as the duration of the pulses in @xcite is between @xmath45 and @xmath46 , a possibility to generate the standing wave is using counter - propagating pulses slightly enlarged on time ( for instance , via dispersion of the ultrashort pulses ) .",
    "another possibility , which does not modify the pulse duration , is to increase the velocity of the atoms .",
    "the smallest radios of the focused spots for this range of wavelengths are around @xmath47 @xcite .",
    "then @xmath48 requires atom velocities close to @xmath49 , that is , an increase of three orders of magnitude with respect to the usual values .",
    "these velocities could be reached accelerating ions , which later would interact with free electrons generating neutral atoms ( the remaining ions should be extracted from the beam by interaction with an electric field ) . in this second scheme one can not use counter - propagating laser beams , which are shorter than @xmath50 , and should generate the standing wave with mirrors or other techniques .",
    "we must also determine the fraction of atoms that are ionized during the interaction .",
    "if a photon is absorbed the probability of ionization is large in our arrangement . for @xmath51",
    "the energy of one photon is @xmath52 .",
    "this energy is much larger than the ionization energy , giving rise to a large probability of ionization in the case of photon absorption .",
    "we estimate the number of non - ionized atoms , @xmath53 , in the usual way : @xmath54 with @xmath55 the ionization rate , which is assumed to be time - independent .",
    "this gives @xmath56 with @xmath57 the initial number of atoms in the beam . on the other hand , for the range of intensities in our problem",
    "the ionization rate can be expressed as @xmath58 with @xmath59 the photoionization cross section , which depends on @xmath11 .",
    "values of @xmath60 can be found in several database .",
    "for instance for the na atom and @xmath61 we have @xmath62 , which gives @xmath63 .",
    "due to the very short duration of the interaction the fraction of ionized atoms is negligible . for the values of the parameters here",
    "proposed it is not necessary to include the procedure to remove the ionized atoms .",
    "some coherent light sources are reaching the scale where the optical wavelengths are comparable to the atomic sizes .",
    "our work is one of the first studies considering possible physical effects present in this unexplored regime .",
    "contrarily to a naive intuition , the effective interaction does not depend on multipole terms beyond the dipole one , and the evolution can be described via the usual lightshift potential .",
    "we have shown the existence of diffraction effects similar to those present when the light is on resonance with atomic transitions . the main obstacle to carry out",
    "the experiment is the short duration of the laser pulse . for other possible experiments with much longer durations ( for instance",
    ", bragg s scattering with very short wavelengths ) the ionization rates can be high and a procedure to eliminate the ionized atoms should be added to the arrangement .",
    "in addition to the interest of our proposal in atom optics , it could also be relevant to other fields .",
    "we shall focus on three of them .",
    "the first one concerns to fundamental physics , in particular , to the understanding of the wave properties of quantum systems .",
    "our scheme provides the first example where the periodicity of the classical diffraction grating is similar to the size of the quantum diffracted object .",
    "this is an extreme scenario for quantum diffraction that extends the research presented in @xcite .",
    "our analysis shows that in the limit of objects of the size of the grating periodicity , diffraction survives .    also , from a fundamental point of view , our proposal serves to test the theory of light - matter interactions in the scale of very short wavelengths",
    ". this knowledge would be necessary to study , for instance , the dispersion of this type of light by atoms",
    ". it should be also in the basis of techniques aimed to provide images of the spatial structure of atoms , a process in principle possible with light of the same wavelength of the size of the illuminated object .",
    "finally , from a more practical point of view , the diffraction of atoms can be used to measure the polarizability , by fitting the experimental data to the detection distributions .",
    "this would be an alternative method of measurement of this atomic property .",
    "_ semiclassical approximation .",
    "_ we derive the values of the laser intensity that guarantee the use of the semiclassical approximation .",
    "the usual criterion for its validity is to have a large number of photons in the interaction region . in standard kapitza - dirac diffraction , where the approximation works well , the number of photons per unit volume is @xmath64 , where we have used @xmath65 and @xmath66 .",
    "the typical volume of the interaction region is @xmath67 ( @xmath68 ( aperture collimating the beam of atoms ) @xmath69 @xmath70 ( height of the laser beam ) @xmath69 @xmath71 ( width of the laser beam ) ) .",
    "the number of photons in this characteristic volume is around @xmath72 . for short wavelengths ,",
    "the energy of each photon is around @xmath73 and , in order to have a similar number of photons ( assuming a similar characteristic volume ) , the intensity must be above @xmath74 .",
    "then in our proposal we can safely use the semiclassical approximation .",
    "_ multipole expansion .",
    "_ for very short wavelengths different parts of the atom can feel different electric fields .",
    "we must go beyond the dipole approximation and consider higher multipole terms .",
    "the light - atom interaction potential can be expressed in the multipole form @xcite : @xmath75 where @xmath76 and @xmath77 represent the dipole and @xmath78-component of the quadrupole momenta of the atom .",
    "they can be rewritten using the second quantization of the atomic variables @xcite . if we denote by @xmath79 and @xmath80 the eigenstates of the atom we have @xmath81 with @xmath82 , and @xmath83 with @xmath84 .",
    "the sum , @xmath85 , is over all the electrons of the atom .",
    "the diagonal elements ( expectation values ) @xmath86 are null because the integrand has odd parity .",
    "the non - diagonal ( transition ) elements contribute to the atomic polarizability . in the static and spherically symmetric case",
    "the polarizability has the form @xmath87 with @xmath88 denoting the ground state , and @xmath89 he energy of the state @xcite .",
    "the dipole term also describes the ionization of the atom .",
    "it is an alternative channel associated with ground - continuum transitions , with matrix elements in the form @xmath90 , denoting @xmath91 states of the continuum .",
    "the next term in eq . ( [ eq : mul ] ) represents the permanent quadrupole effects . in general , the values of the permanent quadrupole momenta can be expressed as @xmath92 , with @xmath93 bohr s radius and a proportionality coefficient of the order of unity @xcite . as signaled before , in order to be in the diffraction regime the potential must be of the order of @xmath94 .",
    "then the quadrupole term must be similar , @xmath95 .",
    "taking for the field the standard form we can express the potential as @xmath96 . using this expression and the relation between @xmath97 and @xmath98",
    "we have that the intensity of the laser must be around @xmath99 in order to the quadrupolar effects to be relevant in the problem .",
    "this value is smaller than the intensity required to have a non - negligible atomic dipole induced by the polarizability . in appendix 2 we discuss the role of induced quadrupole terms in our problem .",
    "note that if the n - th order permanent multipole coefficient follows a relation of the type @xmath100 with a proportionality coefficient of the order of unity , we have @xmath101 and that multipole term also has to be taken into account .",
    "however , as in the quadrupole case , its temporal dependence remains in the form @xmath102 , and after averaging it can be neglected .",
    "finally , we recall the fact that the electric quadrupole and the magnetic dipole energies have similar magnitudes .",
    "thus , if the electric quadrupole term is relevant for the problem , the magnetic dipole one must also be taken into account .",
    "the magnetic dipole term reads as @xmath103 with @xmath104 the magnetic field at the atomic cm position and @xmath105 the magnetic dipole moment , which can be expressed as @xmath106 with @xmath107 the orbital angular momentum of the i - th electron in the atom . from these expressions and the form of the electromagnetic potential",
    "it is clear that the temporal dependence of this term is also proportional to @xmath108 , and it will vanish after time averaging just as in the electric quadrupole case .",
    "* appendix 2 * in this appendix we analyze the atomic quadrupole induced by the electric field or its gradient .",
    "when the polarizability effects are taken into account the quadrupole momenta can be expressed as @xmath109 where @xmath110 are the permanent momenta , @xmath111 is the dipole - quadrupole polarizability and @xmath112 the quadrupole - quadrupole one .",
    "the first term in the r. h. s. of the equation represents the quadrupole momenta in absence of external electric fields , the second the momenta induced by an electric field and the third these induced by the gradient of the field .",
    "the order of magnitude of the coefficients is @xmath113 and @xmath114 with @xmath115 . introducing numerical values we obtain for the potentials associated with these two terms ( @xmath116 and @xmath117 ) : @xmath118 , where we have used @xmath119 .",
    "we expect the potentials to be ten to one hundred times smaller than the lightshift potential . however , to extract precise conclusions of the importance of the induced terms we should know the actual values of the coefficients . unfortunately , very few experimental data are available , and in many cases there are large uncertainties on their theoretical estimation ( see , for instance , @xcite for some recent work in this subject",
    ". note that with the values suggested for mg in this reference the induced potential would be comparable to the lightshift one ) .    in our particular problem ,",
    "when the quadrupole polarizability is taken into account the full potential can be written as @xmath120 note that the temporal dependence in all the terms of the r. h. s. is @xmath121 .",
    "all the terms remain after the time averaging .",
    "the coefficient resulting from the integration is included in @xmath122 . using simple trigonometric relations we obtain @xmath123 the final detection pattern is @xmath124k_l + k_o)x}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where we have used the relation @xmath125 .",
    "the diffraction pattern shows the same analytical form found for the lightshift potential , the peaks correspond to even multiples of @xmath126 .",
    "the difference lies in the different intensities of the peaks , which in addition to @xmath127 now also depend on @xmath128 and @xmath129 . in conclusion , in presence of quadrupole polarizability effects , we would obtain a diffraction pattern similar to that associated with dipole polarizability .",
    "our main result remains valid , there are diffraction patterns in the regime of very short wavelengths . in addition , the diffraction pattern could be used to determine the @xmath128 and @xmath129 values and , in consequence , the quadrupole polarizabilities , which are very difficult to measure by other methods @xcite .",
    "99 n. rohringer , d. ryan , et al , nature * 481 * , 488 ( 2012 ) e. a. schneidmiller , m. v. yurkov , 2011 _ photon beam properties at the european xfel _ ( technical report 2011.06 , 2011 ) .",
    "available at www.xfel.eu e. allaria , c. callegaci , et al , new j. phys .",
    "* 12 * , 075002 ( 2010 ) p.",
    "l. kapitza , p. a. m. dirac , proc .",
    "* 29 * , 297 ( 1933 ) h. batelaan , contemp",
    ". phys . * 41 * , 369 ( 2000 ) p. l. gould , g. a. ruff , d. e. pritchard , phys .",
    "lett . * 56 * , 827 ( 1986 ) d. l. freimund , k. aflatooni , h. batelaan , nature * 413 * , 142 ( 2001 ) d. l. freimund , h. batelaan , phys .",
    "* 89 * , 283602 ( 2002 ) p. sancho , phys .",
    "a * 82 * , 033814 ( 2010 ) p. sancho , j. phys .",
    "b * 44 * , 145002 ( 2011 ) m. arndt , o. nairz , j. vos - andreae , c. keller , g. van der zouw , a. zeilinger , nature * 401 * , 680 ( 1999 ) o. nairz , m. arndt , a. zeilinger , j. mod . opt . * 47 * , 2811 ( 2000 ) o. nairz , b. brezger , m. arndt , a. zeilinger , phys . rev . lett . *",
    "87 * , 160401 ( 2001 ) m. s. chapman , c. r. ekstrom , t. d. hammond , r. a. rubenstein , j. schmiedmayer , s. wehinger , d. e. pritchard , phys .",
    "* 74 * , 4783 ( 1995 ) c. s. adams , m. sigel , j. mlynek , phys",
    "240 * , 143 ( 1994 ) s. bernadotte , a. j. atkins , c. r. jacob , j. chem . phys . * 137 * , 204106 ( 2012 ) z. zhou , s - i .",
    "chu , phys .",
    "a * 87 * , 023407 ( 2013 ) w - z .",
    "zhang , w - m .",
    "liu , arxiv:1206.3445 ( 2012 ) r. loudon , _ the quantum theory of light _ ( oxford science , oxford , 2000 ) p. schwerdtfeger , _ electric fields _ , edited by g. maroulis ( world scientific , 2006 ) .",
    "w. m. itano , phys .",
    "a * 73 * , 022510 ( 2006 ) s. g. porsev , m. s. safronova , m. g. kozlov , phys .",
    "a * 85 * , 062517 ( 2012 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> lasers with wavelengths of the order of the atomic size are becoming available . </S>",
    "<S> we explore the behavior of light - matter interactions in this emergent field by considering the atomic kapitza - dirac effect . </S>",
    "<S> we derive the diffraction patterns , which are in principle experimentally testable . from a fundamental point of view </S>",
    "<S> , our proposal provides an example of system where the periodicity of the diffraction grating is comparable to the size of the diffracted object . </S>"
  ]
}