{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation of planets is a complex process that requires sub-@xmath0 m dust grains to grow over a dozen orders of magnitude in size . the smallest particles ,",
    "although they are highly - coupled to gas , can slowly drift in both radial and vertical direction , and collide with each other .",
    "that physical collisions with low relative velocities lead to creation of larger agglomerates  @xcite . on the other side of the scale ,",
    "@xmath1  m bodies are large enough to be almost completely decoupled from gas dynamics and be mostly influenced by gravitational interactions  @xcite    the most problematic is the intermediate step of growing dust from cm grains to km sized bodies , due to existence of several processes that counteract the possible growth or pose significant time constrains .",
    "the latter is mainly caused by a fast radial drift of the bodies that are marginally coupled to the gas , i.e. characteristic scale of their aerodynamic drag is of the order of their orbital time  @xcite .",
    "moreover , the characteristic relative velocities for the bodies of sizes ranging from @xmath2 to @xmath3 are of the order of @xmath4 which , during collisions , result in fragmentation and bouncing rather than sticking  @xcite .",
    "one of the possible scenarios is a fast enhancement of dust density via sedimentation to the midplane due to vertical component of host star gravity .",
    "then further fragmentation and collapse of dense dust layer is caused by a self - gravity  @xcite .",
    "though the sedimentation itself leads to the rise of kelvin - helmholz instability  @xcite ( khi ) which prevents forming an infinitesimally thin layer in the midplane , recent studies show that it is not the case for massive discs with higher than solar metallicities  @xcite .    however , a significant flaw behind presented reasoning is a complete negligence of disc s global turbulence , which in turn is the only mechanism that would allow to explain observed accretion rates assuming @xmath5-disc model  @xcite .",
    "even though , the most plausible mechanism responsible for such turbulence , i.e. magnetorotational instability  @xcite , allows for formation of local , low - level of turbulence areas due to insufficient ionization of gas , there are still other instabilities that stir the fluids  @xcite .    despite of this unfavorable circumstances",
    "there is a process that commences to dominate dust evolution when ratio of concentration of dust particles to gas density approaches unity .",
    "this mechanism was first presented by  @xcite ( hereafter yg05 ) and named the _ streaming instability_. it appears that combination of dust trapping in gas pressure maxima and mutual interaction leading to dust dragging the gas , therefore enhancing the maxima even further , results in significant dust pile - up  @xcite . even without the presence of self - gravity , dust concentration",
    "may be risen up to the three orders of magnitude  @xcite ( hereafter jy07 ) which could possibly lead to gravitationally bound objects  @xcite .",
    "recent numerical studies of streaming instability concentrate on various physical aspects that may influence its evolution , that includes : the influence of wide range of dust species  @xcite , effects of global pressure gradients  @xcite , stratification of discs  @xcite . however , all known to authors works limit themselves to local disc approximation .",
    "the main goal of this paper is to investigate the streaming instability in a more realistic circumstances of radially extended discs .",
    "the essential points of interest are : ( 1 ) resolution studies of the streaming instability in a 2d radially extended domain , to see what is the minimum grid resolution necessary to ensure growth rates of simulated instability modes consistent with the results of linear stability analysis , ( 2 ) investigation of the streaming instability a in 3d radially extended domain , in an optimal grid resolution , deduced from resolution studies in 2d .",
    "the plan of the paper is as follows : in section  [ sec : eqs ] we set up the basic assumptions and equations relevant for the present paper . in section  [ sec : lsa ]",
    "we perform linear analysis of streaming instability in protoplanetary discs . in section  [ sec : setup ]",
    "we describe specific numerical algorithm that were used in the performed simulations along with the initial conditions and the basic simulation parameters .",
    "section  [ sec : results ] shows the obtained results and their detailed comparison with linear stability analysis .",
    "finally in section  [ sec : conclusions ] we discuss the outcome of our experiments and give short outlook of the future work .",
    "we investigate global dynamics of two interacting fluids  gas and dust  in the protoplanetary disc .",
    "we assume that neutral gas obeys the isothermal equation of state , whereas dust is treated as a pressureless fluid .",
    "@xmath6    where @xmath7 , @xmath8 are densities of gas and dust respectively , @xmath9 , @xmath10 corresponding velocities , @xmath11 gas pressure , @xmath12 is a friction time and @xmath13 is gravitational potential .",
    "our aim is to isolate the streaming instability from the other possible processes acting in a radially extended protoplanetary discs . in order to obtain a clear diagnostics of the excited instability we neglect the vertical component of gravity arising from the point mass source in the center of the reference frame , which would lead to dust sedimentation and eventually to the onset of khi  @xcite .",
    "we shall simulate disc starting from the relatively large radius ( 2  au ) .",
    "we assume , following  @xcite that transition to stokes regime occurs for particle radius @xmath14 where @xmath15  cm is the mean free path of the gas molecules  @xcite , and @xmath16 is the radial distance to the disc centre . under these assumptions",
    "the epstein s regime applies in the dominating part our domain , even for the largest simulated grain sizes .",
    "therefore , to compute the friction time , we use the epstein s law @xmath17 where @xmath18 is the gas sound speed , and @xmath19 is the density of the solid material . while the term @xmath20 does not play any significant role during the evolution of si , i.e. its value never exceeds 1 per cent of @xmath21 we have decided not to neglect it in our simulations for the completeness sake .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]",
    "the initial stage of streaming instability evolution is similar for all cases of @xmath22 or @xmath23 and is governed by the dominant linear modes . detailed analysis of linear phase is covered in section  [ simulation_analysis ] .",
    "the following two sections describe different non - linear evolution of streaming instability in quasi - global setup with reference to similar case shown by jy07 .      as noted by jy07 ,",
    "streaming instability is the most prominent for @xmath26 and exhibits fast linear growth and heavy dust clumping .",
    "figure  [ fig1 ] shows temporal evolution of streaming instability for different initial dust to gas ratios @xmath22 . in all cases ( ba , bb , bc ) elongated clumps",
    "are formed .",
    "when the saturated state is reached , due to the high vertical speed of dust overdensities , the filaments undergo occasional fragmentation and collisions with each other , though still following `` v''-shaped trajectories that emerged during linear phase . the most prominent differences between ba , bb and bc are : ( 1 ) the characteristic length of local clumps is decreasing with the increase of initial @xmath22 and ( 2 ) their tendency to lean in radial direction : in bb structures are almost purely diagonal , whereas in ba and bc are much more elongated in the vertical direction . similarly to jy07 , in all cases ( ba , bb , bc ) the density peaks of the dust component in the non - linear regime settle at levels about 2 order of magnitude higher than initial density .      since the fluid approach , contrary to the particle description , is much less susceptible to effects of poisson noise we were able to follow linear phase for run ab and abh for much longer than jy07 , though in the end we also observe sudden increase in growth rate of the instability due to spontaneous cavitation ( initial phase is caught in the middle subpanel of bottom right panel of fig .  [ fig2 ] ) .",
    "the bubbles of void start to spawn at outer radii and greatly increase the dust density and velocity on their edges ( see fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) .",
    "after just few orbital periods the accelerated instability expands to whole domain and dominate the nonlinear evolution .",
    "afterwards the quasi - stationary state of vivid turbulence is achieved . in both cases ( ab , ac )",
    ", the non - linear evolution leads to the enhancement of the peak densities of dust component over one order of magnitude , which is in close agreement with results of jy07 ( see fig .  8 in their work ) .    .",
    "]    in the dust dominated case ( ac ) our results closely follow those of jy07 up to the point of saturation , where we achieve highly turbulent flow ( lower subpanel of upper right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) and about 20 fold growth in dust density . however , we note that secular evolution of the physical system leads to formation of elongated dust overdensities and further growth up to 2 orders of magnitude as seen in runs with other parameters ( see lower subpanel of bottom right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) .",
    "in the gas dominated case ( aa ) we observe initial overdensity growth over two orders of magnitude in a characteristic grid - like pattern .",
    "however , at time 1200 , 440 , 325 for runs aa , aah , aau respectively , in the course of nonlinear evolution the dense dust filaments are abruptly smoothed out resulting in oscillatory motion of mild overdensities that are only one order of magnitude denser than initial dust distribution ( see fig .  [ fig4 ] )     over 2 orders of magnitude ( 2 ) after reaching certain level of @xmath29 , overdensities are abruptly smoothed out ( 3 ) instability reaches out saturated , non - linear phase where large , smooth clumps of dust are only 10 times denser than initial condition .",
    "varying resolution only influences the availability of shorter and faster growing modes , i.e. shortens phase ( 1 ) . ]",
    "the course of the evolution of our single 3d ( bb3d ) closely follows the corresponding 2d run bb ( compare fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] and fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) . during the linear phase of growth elongated clumps or rather sheets of dense dust are formed , as the deviation from axis axisymmetry is almost negligible .",
    "upper panel shows a slice through the disc midplane , whereas lower panel is a part of slice perpendicular to disc plane zoom out to the region that corresponds to physical span of 2d simulations . ]    in order to estimate whether we should expect effects of self - gravity in the nonlinear evolution of streaming instability , we have used ` yt `  @xcite clump finding facility to identify all the largest disconnected contour spanning for minimum value of 50 computational cells in bb3d run .",
    "then we calculated their total mass and velocity dispersion @xmath30 to obtain jeans radius : @xmath31 subsequently we compared the average size of each individual clump @xmath32 and found that @xmath33 for every identified overdense clump , indicating that the clumps fulfill the gravitational binding condition ( see fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] ) .",
    "this indicates that in certain situations , i.e. for dust dominated runs of the semi - global disc configuration , streaming instability acting in a selfgravitating medium can lead to planetesimals formation  @xcite .          in order to analyse the growth of streaming instability we extract small square patches from various locations across the computational domain .",
    "the patches have sizes of @xmath34  au@xmath35 , thus are small enough so that mean values of physical quantities do not vary significantly across them . in the case of 3d",
    "run the patches are chosen on the _ r - z _ plane at @xmath36 .",
    "we note that in the place of the fixed parameters describing the unperturbed equilibrium in  , we use patch - averaged values of corresponding dependent variables in equations . we calculate the spatially averaged densities of gas and dust component @xmath37 , @xmath38 and their mutual ratio @xmath39 .",
    "mean angular velocity @xmath40 is taken for the center of the patch .",
    "dimensionless measure of sub - keplerian gas rotation is calculated by means of the formula  ( see yg05 eq .  ( 16 ) or jy07 eq .",
    "( 1 ) ) @xmath41 in formula we average gas density in the vertical direction , then we calculate the mean radial derivative of @xmath42 .",
    "the expression for mean stopping time is derived from @xmath43 for the sake of consistency gas and dust velocities @xmath44 are also approximated by their mean values @xmath45 instead of calculating them with the aid of - .",
    "however , we note that the mean values that are naturally achieved during the simulation , do not diverge from the equilibrium solution by more than @xmath46 .    to determine linear growth rates of the excited instability modes we calculate fourier transforms of density and velocity distributions of the dust component .",
    "we analyse subsequently time variation of amplitudes of individual modes .",
    "intermediate results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] .",
    "\\times[-0.15,0.15]$ ]  au from simulation bb .",
    "each line represents amplitude for a given pair of @xmath47 .",
    "@xmath48 is time range when modes are fitted with .",
    "@xmath49 is a reference point in time used to identify most dominant modes using criterion of maximum amplitude value .",
    "thick line is an average of amplitudes that are grater than @xmath50 at reference time @xmath51 ]    we identify time @xmath52 at which the dominating modes emerge from fluctuations and start their linear growth phase .",
    "similarly , we identify the end of the linear growth phase @xmath53 when modes have grown by few orders of magnitude , and start to saturate their growth .",
    "we fit exponential function : @xmath54 to the measured density amplitudes in the period @xmath48 .",
    "that procedure allows us to determine the growth rate @xmath55 of each individual unstable mode , during the linear phase of the instability growth in the numerical experiments .",
    "we identify the most rapidly growing modes by selecting those with the greatest amplitude at fixed point at the reference time @xmath49 before the saturation .",
    "we compare the growth rates @xmath56 obtained for each mode with the solution @xmath57 resulting from the linear analysis for the local mean flow parameters .    in fig .",
    "[ fig8 ] we show temporal evolution of dust density perturbation amplitudes for three dominating instability modes in three experiments bb3d , bb and bbh , together with lines fitted to the phase of linear growth and lines representing growth of the amplitudes predicted by the linear analysis of the streaming instability . in the mid resolution run",
    "bb the growth rates are @xmath58 smaller than those predicted by linear analysis , what indicates that still higher resolution is required to resolve these modes . in the high resolution run bbh the results of the numerical experiment tend to converge the results of linear stability analysis .",
    "the final saturation amplitudes seem to be slightly smaller in high resolution runs .",
    "one should note , however , that we have chosen the modes of the highest growth rate for each run , which are not the same modes in terms of wavenumbers .",
    "au for the simulations : bb3d ( upper panel ) , bb ( middle panel ) and bbh ( lower panel ) . ]    to extend our analysis we show in fig .",
    "[ fig9 ] a contour plot ( following yg05 and yj07 ) of the growth rate @xmath55 , resulting from solutions of the dispersion relation .",
    "the shape of isocontours indicates that the most unstable modes of the streaming instability , predicted by linear analysis , form a ridge extending towards large values of @xmath59 and @xmath60 .",
    "the plots are constructed for the same set of the physical parameters and the mean state parameters derived for the domain patches at @xmath61 .",
    "we then place @xmath62 of 9 dominating modes extracted at @xmath63 for simulations performed at different resolutions .",
    "our procedure allows us to confirm that wavenumbers of the modes , emerging in presented numerical models , align with the ridge of linear solutions at the growth rate map .",
    "it is apparent that dominating modes are limited by available numerical resolution . at lower numerical resolutions ( run bb3d )",
    "the dominant modes locate below the contour labeled as ",
    "@xmath64  . at the mid resolution of run bb",
    "some of the modes locate above the contour  @xmath64  , and at the high resolution most of the modes locate above this contour .",
    "similar tendency can be observed for the pair of runs ab and abh .",
    "we anticipate that the reason for the absence of the very short wavenumber modes is the numerical diffusivity of the presently used relaxing tvd algorithm .",
    "our estimations show that our code requires at least 32 computational cells per wavelength of the unstable mode , to accurately represent the linear growth rate , which is much more than is required by higher - order schemes  @xcite .",
    "we varied the resolution of our simulations to check how our numerical scheme affects the obtained solutions .",
    "as the streaming instability in general `` prefers '' shorter wavelengths for the optimal growth , increasing resolution always leads to more , smaller overdensities emerging during the course of evolution ( see fig .",
    "[ fig10 ] ) .",
    "however we note that our results follow the fastest growing , linear modes ( see fig .  [ fig9 ] ) and that most phenomena described in previous sections i.e. cavitation ( see fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) or sudden growth dumping of the tightly coupled boulders in the gas dominated regime ( see fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] ) are independent of the size of the smallest computational cell .",
    "yr in two small rectangular patches for the two identical simulations parameters ( upper : bb , lower : bbh ) showing how the resolution affects simulation results at the linear and saturation phase of the instability .",
    "it is apparent that shorter wavelength modes dominate at the higher resolution , and that dust condensation structures are sharper . ]",
    "we performed a set of 2d simulations and 3d simulation of two mutually interacting fluids , i.e. gas and dust in protoplanetary disc , while neglecting vertical component of gravity .",
    "for the spectrum of grain sizes ranging from @xmath65  cm we observe rapid growth of unstable modes in dust component , which are consistent with modes obtained for streaming instability within the framework of local linear analysis .",
    "our model enhances previous work of other authors by taking into account the full dynamics of protoplanetary disc , e.g. radial migration , that lead to significant variation in physical quantities , such as gas pressure gradient , and were previously treated as constant .",
    "moreover instead of using a general dimensionless stopping time parameter to couple both fluid components , we implement specific drag law ( eqn .  )",
    "which is best suited to the physical properties of simulated fluids .    in the present quasi - global approach",
    "we relieved the restriction of the fixed radial pressure gradient , adopted for numerical modeling of the streaming instability within the shearing box approximation .",
    "it remains unknown how much this term affects the non - linear evolution of the system , since the additional term acts as an infinite energy reservoir driving the difference in azimuthal velocities of both fluids . in the global approach , even around fixed orbit , the parameter @xmath66 ,",
    "measuring the radial pressure gradient , is function of time . while locality of shearing box fully justifies using a constant dimensionless stopping time to calculate mutual linear drag force , that approximation is no longer valid in the global disc .",
    "the wave numbers of the fastest growing modes , extracted from numerical models , and their positions at the map of growth rate @xmath67 vs. @xmath59 and @xmath60 coincide with the predictions of linear analysis of streaming instability .",
    "we reproduce reasonably well the linear growth rates , getting rapid convergence near @xmath68 cells per wavelength .",
    "it is apparent , however , that due to diffusive nature of the relaxing tvd scheme , piernik needs high resolution to capture linear growth phase accurately .",
    "the instability saturates when dust overdensities synchronize their velocity with the gas component .",
    "we must note that despite the steady outward migration of the gas , dust blobs never really gain positive radial velocity and never cease to migrate inwards ( this was also noted by  @xcite ) .",
    "though in certain cases , their radial velocity is significantly slower than what is expected from the standard estimation of the migration rate .",
    "the lack of additional force that would keep the blobs bounded also leads to high dispersion rate of the overdensities .    in our simulations",
    "we have neglected the role of stratification of the disc , self - gravity of both fluids and also mri induced turbulence . as each and every of the aforementioned physical processes plays significant and integral role in the protoplanetary disc evolution , we plan to gradually expand our setup increasing its complexity in order to create the more complete global model .",
    "we have found that nonlinear evolution of the streaming instability forms conditions for the formation of gravitationally bound dust blobs in the examined 3d semi - global discs configuration .",
    "this indicates , in accordance with the predictions by  @xcite , the possibility for planetesimals formation in accreting circumstellar discs , and therefore we plan to incorporate selfgravity in our future work .",
    "we note that some of our runs may be underresolved , especially the gas - dominated setups",
    ". however the nonlinear outcomes of all setups converge to common solutions .",
    "moreover , our initial simulation of full 3d setup , which took 0.36 mcpuh , shows that we are able to perform global simulation of streaming instability in a convincing manner . however , due to the severe cfl constraint on time - step imposed by the high azimuthal velocity in 3d simulations , we consider implementing fargo - like algorithm  @xcite for our future work .",
    "this is an important step towards complete model of planetesimals formation due to combined action of various fluid instabilities postulated by  @xcite .",
    "we would like to stress that everything that is required to reproduce results presented in this paper is publicly available : the code ( http://piernik.astri.umk.pl ) , initial conditions ( part of piernik s example problem set  _ streaming global _ ) , analysis and visualization routines ( aforementioned github repository and ` yt ` package ) .",
    "runs in the basic resolution took approx .",
    "400 cpuh and can be conveniently reproduced on small clusters or even modern workstations .",
    "kk is willing to assist inquisitive readers with performing said simulations along with providing access to data obtained in much more computationally demanding runs .",
    "this work was partially supported by polish ministry of science and higher education through the grant n203 511038 .",
    "this work is a part of powiew project supported by the european regional development fund in the innovative economy programme ( poig.02.03.00 - 00 - 018/08 ) .",
    "this research was supported in part by pl - grid infrastructure .",
    "all of the post - processing and procedures described in sect .",
    "[ simulation_analysis ] was carried out using the data analysis and visualization package ` yt ` by  @xcite .",
    "99 bai x .-",
    "n . , stone j.  m. , 2010 , apj , 722 : 1437 bai x .-",
    "n . , stone j.  m. , 2010 , apj , 722 : l220 balbus s.  a. , hawley j.  f. 1998 , rvmp , 70 : 1 balsara , d.  s. , tilley , d.  a. , rettig , t. , brittain , s.  d. , 2009 , mnras 397 : 24 blum j. , wurm g. , 2008 , ara&a , 46 : 21 cuzzi j.  n. , dobrovolskis a.  r. , champney j.  m. , 1993 , icarus 106 : 102 durand , e. , 1960 , in masson et al .",
    "_ solutions numriques des equations algbriques _ , vol .",
    "1 , pp . 279281 kerner , i.  o. , 1966 , numerische mathematik 8 : 290 - 294 .",
    "goldreich p. , ward w.  r. , 1973 , apj , 183 : 1051 hanasz m. , kowalik k. , wltaski d. , pawaszek , r.  k. , kornet , k. , 2010 , _",
    "eas publications series _ 42 , 281 hayashi , c. , 1981 , prog .",
    "suppl . , 70 , 35 hawley j.  f. , gammie c.  f. , balbus s.  a. , 1995 , apj , 440 , 742 kokubo e. , kominami j. , ida s. , 2006 , apj , 642 , 1131 kosiski , r. , hanasz , m. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 759 jacquet e. , balbus s. , latter h. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 3591 johansen a. , henning t. , klahr h. , 2006 , apj , 643 , 1219 johansen a. , oishi j.  s. , mac low m .-",
    "m . , klahr h. , henning t. , youdin a. , 2007 , nature , 448 , 1022 johansen a. , youdin a. , 2007 , apj , 662 , 627 lee a.  t. , chiang e. , asay - davis x. , barranco j. , 2010 , apj , 725 , 1938 lesur g. , papaloizou j.  c.  b. , 2010 , aa , 513 , 60 masset f. , 2000 , a&as , 141 , 165 mignone , a. , bodo , g. , massaglia , s. , matsakos , t. , tesileanu , o. , zanni , c. , ferrari , a. , 2007 , apjs , 170 , 228 nakagawa y. , sekiya m. , hayashi c. , 1986 , icarus , 67 , 375 perucho , m. , hanasz , m. , mart , j.  m. , sol , h. , 2004 , a&a , 427 , 415 shakura n.  i. , sunyaev r.  a. , 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 skinner , m.  a. , ostriker , e.  c. , 2010 , apjss 188 , 290 takeuchi t. , muto t. , okuzumi s. , ishitsu n. , ida s. , 2012 , apj , 744 , 101 tilley d.  a. , balsara d.  s. , brittain s.  d. , rettig t. , 2009 , mnras , 403 , 211 turk , m.  j. , smith , b.  d. , oishi , j.  s. , skory , s. skillman , s.  w. , abel , t. , norman , m.  l. , 2011 , apjs , 192 , 9 weidenschilling s.  j. , 1977 , mnras , 180 , 57 youdin a. , goodman , j. , 2005 , apj , 620 , 459 youdin a. , johansen a. , 2007 , apj , 662 , 613 zsom a. , ormel c.  w. , guttler c. , blum j. , dullemond c.  p. , 2010",
    ", aa , 513 , 57"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate streaming instability using two - fluid approximation ( neutral gas and dust ) in a quasi - global , unstratified protoplanetary disc , with the help of piernik code . </S>",
    "<S> we compare amplification rate of the eigen - mode in numerical simulations , with the corresponding growth resulting from the linear stability analysis of full system of euler s equation including aerodynamic drag .    </S>",
    "<S> following  @xcite we show that ( 1 ) rapid dust clumping occurs due to the difference in azimuthal velocities of gas and dust , coupled by the drag force , ( 2 ) initial density perturbations are amplified by several orders of magnitude . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the multi - fluid extension of the simple and efficient relaxing tvd scheme , implemented in piernik , leads to results , which are compatible with those obtained with other methods .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    hydrodynamics  instabilities  planets and sattelites : formation . </S>"
  ]
}