{
  "article_text": [
    "cygnusx-2 is a bright galactic low mass x - ray binary belonging to the z - track group of sources having x - ray luminosities at or above the eddington limit ( schulz , hasinger & trmper 1989 ; hasinger & van der klis 1989 ) .",
    "these sources display three tracks in hardness - intensity : the horizontal branch ( hb ) , normal ( nb ) and flaring branch ( fb ) showing that major physical changes which have not been understood take place within the sources .",
    "radio jets have been observed from these sources , notably in scox-1 ( fomalont et al .",
    "2001 ) but predominantly when the source is on the hb ( penninx 1989 ) .",
    "there is also strong interest in the disk - jet connection ( e.g. migliari et al . 2011 ) .",
    "based on an emission model for low mass x - ray binaries embodying the extended nature of the accretion disk corona ( church & bauciska - church 2004 ) , we have proposed a detailed and novel physical explanation of the z - track sources ( church et al .",
    "2012 ) . on the nb and hb",
    ", there is a strong increase of neutron star temperature and so of radiation pressure which disrupts the inner disk , launching the jets .",
    "based on this improved understanding it becomes important to obtain simultaneous radio and x - ray observations which allow detailed investigation of changes at the inner accretion disk at the time of jet launching and subsequent to this launch .",
    "the present observations then provide an adequate strategy to observe these events .",
    "it is moreover important to investigate differences between neutron star and black hole systems as the latter do not have a stellar surface .",
    "we observed cygnusx-2 during two 10 hr periods separated by 12 hr in 2013 february 2013 , in both radio and x - rays .",
    "the observing strategy was designed to maximise the likelihood of observing z - track motion , and to capture the location of the source on the hb .",
    "radio observations of cygnusx-2 were made at a wavelength of 6 cm with the european vlbi network ( evn ) on 2013 february 22@xmath2 and 23@xmath3 , using the electronic vlbi technique ( e - vlbi , see e.g. rushton et al .",
    "2007 ) where real - time     20 mm     data are transferred from the telescopes to the correlator at jive , the netherlands , on national and international academic communication networks .",
    "the data rate from each telescope was 1024 mbps , and the link from jodrell bank used a bandwidth - on - demand connection from london to jive across the janet , gant and surfnet networks .",
    "this was the first time such a link has been used for e - vlbi observations and was set up as part of the nexpres project .",
    "the evn telescopes used were the effelsberg ( germany ) jodrell bank ( uk ) 76-m , medicina ( italy ) 32-m , noto ( sicily ) 32-m , onsala ( sweden ) 25-m , toru ( poland ) 32-m , yebes ( spain ) 40-m , westerbork ( the netherlands ) tied array of 12 x 25-m telescopes and shanghai ( china ) 25-m .",
    "the frequency band used was 4926.49 mhz to 5054.49 mhz in 8 x 16 mhz sub - bands in both hands of circular polarisation .",
    "2-bit sampling was used at the nyquist rate giving a total data rate of 1024 mbps .",
    "medicina and shanghai both used 1-bit sampling at 512 mpbs and therefore had the same frequency coverage . the upper 16 mhz sub - band",
    "was dropped at noto due to link bandwidth limitations , giving a data rate for that telescope of 896 mbps .",
    "initial observations were made each day on bl lac as a ` fringe finder ' in order to find clock offsets , followed by a 5-minute cycle of 2 minutes on the phase reference source j2134 + 4050 and 3 minutes on the cygx-2 target .",
    "alternate observations of the reference source were dropped by the jodrell bank lovell 76-m telescope giving a 10-minute cycle period , due to slewing limitations .",
    "the observations on cygx-2 ran from 09:37 ut to 16:55 ut on 22@xmath2 february and 09:22 ut to 17:28 ut on 23@xmath3 february , except for shanghai where observation terminated at 10:00 and 10:05 ut respectively due to the source setting .",
    "the data were correlated with the evn software correlator at jive ( sfxc ) using 8 sub - bands with 4 polarisations , i.e. including cross hands , with 32 frequency channels per band and 2-second integration .",
    "the correlated data were then processed using the automatic pipeline ( reynolds , paragi and garrett 2002 ) which now uses parseltongue ( kettenis & sipior 2012 ) scripts to run aips programmes .",
    "the data were initially calibrated using antenna noise temperature and gain tables and then fringe fitted , to allow frequency dependent slopes across each band and fringe rates to be corrected .",
    "the data from the pipeline were edited to remove obvious errors and the phase reference source imaged by self - calibration , and the solutions found for this source used to correct the phases of the target source .",
    "the reference source was unresolved and strong enough to give good solutions and initial imaging was done using the difmap programme in the cal - tech vlbi package ( shepard , pearson & taylor 1994 ) .",
    "data were then transferred to aips for more detailed calibration , followed by transfer to difmap for further imaging and model fitting .",
    "unfortunately snow storms on 23@xmath3 february resulted in data from effelsberg and medicina being lost .",
    "the resultant images are shown in fig . 1 left and right for the two days , the second image having higher noise levels as expected . to our surprise and pleasure the second day shows a double structure suggesting an outburst producing an ejected jet .",
    "the positions and flux densities of the components are given in table 1 .",
    "the 2005 position found by _",
    "merlin _ is also shown in the table .",
    "the proper motion from may 2005 to february 2013 is therefore -3.0@xmath4 mas per year in right ascension and -0.64@xmath5 0.68 mas per year in declination .",
    "1 mm    ._vlbi _ positions of components ( j2000 ) ; the observation of 2005 , may 21 shown for comparison was made using _",
    "merlin_. [ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]      + [ tab1 ]    absolute position errors are estimated as 0.45 mas on the 22@xmath2 and 0.50 mas on the 23@xmath3 , with relative errors between the two days of 0.3 mas in both coordinates .",
    "the position error in the merlin measurement was 5.3 mas in each coordinate .",
    "the change in structure suggests that a radio jet with a bright head ( the se component ) has been ejected , while emission from the core had weakened by the second day . the head component moved by 6 mas in position angle 141 deg .",
    "a distance for cygnusx-2 was published of 7.2@xmath51.1 kpc ( orosz & kuulkers 1999 ) . from peak x - ray burst",
    "fluxes a distance of 11.6@xmath50.13 was found by smale ( 1998 ) and 11@xmath52 kpc by galloway ( 2008 ) for an h - fraction x = 0.7 . however , not all bursts exhibited the radius expansion required for distance determination .",
    "we adopt a distance of 9 kpc which gives an apparent ejection velocity of 0.33@xmath6c , taking about 24 hours between the measurements .    the signal to noise ratio and aperture plane coverage on the first day were sufficient to allow model fitting of a circular gaussian component to the image for short ( 0.5  1 hr ) sections of data ( flux densities shown in fig .",
    "2 ) . the data did not allow accurate determination of velocity but the position in right ascension suggests that the component moved to the east by the end of the run .",
    "the velocity may be further determined as follows .",
    "the loss of the two telescopes on the second day meant that model fitting to short sections of data was unreliable , however , splitting the data into two halves showed that the double structure was present in both sections .",
    "if we examine the radio 5 ghz lightcurve ( fig .",
    "2 , lower panel ) , a small radio flare seemed to occur at around 11:40 ut on day 1 .",
    "table 2 shows the time of the midpoints of the two sections of data on day 2 , the flux densities and separation of components in the two halves .",
    "if we take the mean time for the 1st section of data on the second day as a time at which the double structure was clearly established and the time of the weak flare as the ejection time then the apparent velocity is v / c = 0.33@xmath50.12 for a distance of 9 kpc",
    ".    4 mm    llll date , time&component&flux & separation + & & ( mjy ) & ( mas ) + 23 feb 11.11 & core & 0.36 & + & se & 0.65 & 5.016 + 23 feb 15.14 & core & 0.43 & + & se & 0.44 & 5.256 +     + [ tab2 ]    the core component has decreased in flux density slightly while the ejected ( se ) component decreases in flux in the second half of day 2 .",
    "there is evidence that the source is still expanding , though at a rate lower than since the previous day ( 1.4 mas / day ) .",
    "however , the results show that the source has expanded by 11:00 ut on 23@xmath3 february , 23.3 hrs after the weak flare on february 22@xmath2 .",
    "there is some evidence for a counter jet in the radio image ( fig . 1 right ) .",
    "however , the peak of the emission to the nw of the source is only at about the 3@xmath7 level , and the feature could arise from noise or artifacts .",
    "the peak brightness of the clearly seen se jet on day 2 was found to be @xmath06 times the peak brightness at the position of the counter jet . from this ratio , some constraints may be placed on the jet velocity as discussed in sect .",
    "cygnusx-2 was observed using the _ swift _ satellite on february 22@xmath2 and 23@xmath3 2013 , as a target of opportunity that allowed simultaneous x - ray and radio observations .",
    "there were 7 @xmath01600 s observations spread over 10 hr on the first day , beginning at 7:32 ut , then a gap of 12 hr followed by a second similar period of 7 short observations .",
    "the observations were made in windowed timing mode because of the brightness of the source . in this mode ,",
    "the central 200 pixel columns are used while each set of 10 pixel rows are binned together .",
    "the ccds are then read out with rapid clocking and the two - dimensional structure is lost , the image appearing as a strip of 200 columns only a few units wide . on day 1 , in observations 2 , 3 and 4 the source was not located optimally , but off the end of the strip , as a result of operational constraints . in these cases ,",
    "a substantial number of counts were lost but correction could be made using the point spread function .",
    "the raw data were assembled into an events file using xrtpipeline .",
    "standard screening was applied .",
    "_ xselect _ was then used to extract a lightcurve from a source region consisting of an annulus of inner and outer radii 4 pixel ( 0.16 arcmin ) and 25 pixel ( 1 arcmin ) .",
    "the central part of the source region was not used because of the unacceptable degree of pulse pile - up in that region .",
    "lightcurves were obtained in a total band of 0.3  10 kev and also sub - bands of this including 2.5  4.5 kev and 4.5  10.0 kev to allow construction of a hardness ratio .",
    "background was obtained from a region outside the source annulus .",
    "xrtlccorr was used to correct the lightcurves taking into account vignetting , the point spread function allowing for the different position angles in different sub - observations .",
    "this was done for all observations including the 3 observations not optimally directed ; however , because of the larger corrections made , the systematic errors in these cases were higher .    the total background - subtracted lightcurve in the band 0.3  10 kev of the whole 2 days of observation is shown in fig . 2 ( upper panel ) , together with the radio 5 ghz data .",
    "day 1 data are shown in black ; sub - observations 2 , 3 and 4 are shown in green and can be seen with larger errors corresponding to the observations not optimally directed .",
    "day 2 observations are shown in red .",
    "the x - ray luminosity in the band 1  30 kev was typical for the source , varying between 1.3  1.7@xmath8 erg s@xmath9 during day 2 . during the second half of the observations ,",
    "an x - ray burst was seen at the time marked on the figure lasting a few seconds ( and so not seen at 64 s binning ) .",
    "x - ray bursts are unusual in z - track sources which have luminosities more than 10 times higher than those of x - ray burst sources .",
    "type 1 bursts have been seen in cygx-2 over a number of years ( kahn & grindlay 1984 ; smale 1998 ; galloway et al .",
    "2008 ) .",
    "a hardness ratio was formed from the ratio of the counts in the band 4.5  10.0 kev to that in the band 2.5  4.5 kev and is shown in fig .",
    "3 as a function of the intensity in the band 0.3  10 kev .",
    "the approximate inferred positions of the normal and flaring branches are indicated by dashed lines .",
    "it can be seen that there is no change in hardness ratio while the intensity changes by a factor of two , showing the source to be on the horizontal branch .",
    "the factor of two is typical and implies that the hard apex between hb and nb will be approximately as indicated by the intersection of the dashed line with the data .",
    "we have re - analysed previous _ rxte _",
    "data on cygnusx-2 using the same energy bands as in the present work",
    ". the hardness - intensity plot may have a slightly different shape from that in _ rxte _ but the horizontal branch remains horizontal and there is no possibility of confusion with the nb or fb .",
    "it is clear that the source is on the horizontal branch .",
    "this is supported by spectral fitting , a detailed account of which will be published separately elsewhere .",
    "on the first day , cygx-2 is already located on the hb as shown by the hardness ratio . during the observations it moves on this branch , increasing in intensity during the second sub - observation , moving towards the hard apex of the z - track .",
    "after 2 hours the radio flare appears .",
    "it seems likely that the radio flare corresponds to jet launching . as expected from this",
    ", the integrated radio image for day 1 does not show a jet .    on day 2",
    ", there is a substantial drop in x - ray intensity .",
    "if the radio data are not integrated as two halves but left as 7 sub - observations , the first 3 points indicate a decrease in radio flux , but should be treated with some caution because of the loss of data from effelsberg and medicina .",
    "however , these data represent the first observation of the moment of jet launch in both radio and x - ray .",
    "we have observed the formation of relativistic jets in cygx-2 in radio and x - rays and can probably locate the time of jet detachment from the neutron star system at the radio flare observed on day 1 .",
    "based on this assumption , we find a preliminary value of the jet velocity v / c of 0.33@xmath50.12 .",
    "this is based on assuming jet formation at the evn flare and position of the head at the mid - point of the first radio measurement on day 2 .",
    "there is an uncertainty in the angle moved of 0.4 in 6 mas .",
    "we use the maximum possible range of distance values implied by uncertainties in the quoted values ( sect .",
    "2 ) giving the above quoted uncertainty in v / c of 38% .",
    "the possible weak detection of a counter jet allows us to place constraints on the jet for particular assumptions .",
    "the ratio of the brightness of the approaching jet @xmath10 to that of the receeding jet @xmath11 when doppler boosting takes place is given by    - 2 mm @xmath12    where @xmath13 is v / c , @xmath14 is the inclination angle , @xmath15 is the spectral index and @xmath16 is a factor related to the geometry of the ejecta .",
    "we assume @xmath15 = 0 and @xmath16 = 3 appropriate to ejection of discrete condensations . using the measured ratio of @xmath06 and assuming an inclination of 62.5 degrees ( from the uvb light curves , orosz and kuulkers 1999 ) gives an intrinsic velocity for the jet of @xmath00.6@xmath6c and an apparent velocity of the approaching jet of @xmath00.8@xmath6c , higher than that observed .",
    "possibly the ejection could be one sided , have unequal velocities for the approaching and receding jet or more likely have intrinsic differences in radio flux between the two sides - perhaps due to significant absorption .",
    "high resolution observations at two or more radio frequencies would be needed on future ejecta to investigate this possibility .    in the case of scox-1",
    "there have been extensive investigations of the jets by fomalont and co - workers ( e.g. fomalont et al .",
    "2001 ) and there appear to be distinct similarities as might be expected as scox-1 is also a z - track source although more luminous , having a luminosity typically three times higher than cygx-2 .",
    "scox-1 exhibits a radio core , and northeast and southwest jets with measured average velocities of 0.45@xmath6c .",
    "we suspect however , that formation of the relativistic jet is due to heating of the neutron star and the corresponding increased radiation pressure rather than other mechanisms such as disk instability . as the inner accretion disk in the z - track sources is a thick disk , inflated to a height of the order of 50 km by the disk s radiation pressure , collimation of the jet is possible at the conical opening in the hot inner disk , the radiation pressure having components both vertical and horizontal , the latter having a collimating effect .      in the standard approach to the z - track sources ( hasinger et al .",
    "1990 ) it is thought that the physical changes between the branches are caused in some way by changes in the mass accretion rate @xmath17 which was thought to increase monotonically in the sense hb @xmath18 nb @xmath18 fb . however , the x - ray intensity decreases along the nb which is not expected if @xmath17 is increasing .",
    "a new explanation of the nature of the z - track sources based on extensive analysis of _ rossi - xte _ data was proposed for the cygnusx-2 like group ( church et al .",
    "( 2006 ) ; bauciska - church et al . 2010 ) and then extended to the scorpiusx-1 like group ( church et al .",
    "2012 ) . in this model",
    ", the mass accretion rate @xmath17 does not increase monotonically round the z - track as previously postulated , but increases from the soft to hard apex .",
    "the increase of @xmath17 heats the neutron star , the blackbody temperature @xmath19 increasing from @xmath01 kev to @xmath02 kev .",
    "there is a corresponding increase in radiation pressure by a large factor the neutron star emission becoming super - eddington which will disrupt the inner disk forcing material upwards perpendicular to the accretion disk , so launching the jet .",
    "evidence was presented showing that the flaring branch consists of unstable nuclear burning on the surface of the neutron star .      in a separate study ( bauciska - church et al .",
    "_ in prep .",
    "_ ) 15 years of data from the _ rxte _ all sky monitor were examined revealing longterm variations of the source very clearly and significantly on a timescale of 40  70 days which were not strictly periodic",
    ". wijnands et al .",
    "( 1996 ) found a periodic 78-day effect but based on much less data . pointed",
    "observations in which the position on the z - track was known were superimposed on the 15-year lightcurve .",
    "it was found that the z - track movement only took place when the source was in a high state occurring quasi - periodically up to ten times per year .",
    "the hb in which jets predominantly occur is only seen in these high states .",
    "radio detections of jets were then added , showing that these occurred when the asm intensity increased above 40 count s@xmath9 .",
    "we thus now have the ability to predict the launching of jets based on observation of the source moving from a low intensity to above a critical value .",
    "since the demise of _ rxte _ , _ maxi _ can be used in the same way . in the present observation",
    "the jet was formed when the source had crossed the critical intensity giving strong support to our ability to predict jets .",
    "we have captured jet formation in cygnusx-2 in radio and x - rays for the first time .",
    "the _ swift _ observations confirm that the source is on the horizontal branch of the z - track .",
    "the observations were found to take place at a period of increased x - ray intensity as monitored by _",
    "maxi _ supporting our findings from a study with the _ asm _ and _ maxi _ that a minimum critical intensity is needed for jet formation .",
    "we believe that we can now predict jet formation and it should be possible to trigger observations to observe jet formation in more detail , without the major uncertainty previously attached to observations at arbitrary epochs .",
    "we thank neil gehrels and the _ swift _ team for agreeing to the _ too _ and richard porcas for his efforts in scheduling the radio observations .",
    "we thank matteo perri and milvia capalbi for their help with non - standard issues of xrt analysis .",
    "the e - vlbi research infrastructure in europe is supported by the eu s 7@xmath20 framework programme under grant ri-261525 nexpres .",
    "the evn is a joint facility of european , chinese , south african and other radio astronomy institutes funded by the national research councils .",
    "church m. j. , halai g. s. , & bauciska - church m. , 2006 , a&a , 460 , 233 church m. j. , gibiec a. , bauciska - church m. , jackson n. k. , 2012 , a&a , 546 , 35 fomalont e. b. , geldzahler b. j. , bradshaw c. f. , 2001 , apj , 558 , 283 galloway d. k. , muno m. p. , hartman j. m. , psaltis d. , chakrabarty d. , 2008 , apjs , 179 , 360 hasinger , g. , & van der klis , m. , 1989 , a&a , 225 , 79"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the ejection of a relativistic jet has been observed in the luminous galactic low mass x - ray binary cygnusx-2 . using high resolution radio observations </S>",
    "<S> , a directly resolved ejection event has been discovered while the source was on the horizontal branch of the z - track . </S>",
    "<S> contemporaneous radio and x - ray observations were made with the european _ vlbi _ network at 6 cm and the _ swift _ x - ray observatory in the 0.3  10 kev band . </S>",
    "<S> this has been difficult to achieve because of the previous inability to predict jet formation . </S>",
    "<S> two sets of @xmath010 hr observations were spaced 12 hr apart , the jet apparently switching on during day 1 . </S>",
    "<S> the radio results show an unresolved core evolving into an extended jet . </S>",
    "<S> a preliminary value of jet velocity v / c of 0.33 @xmath1 was obtained , consistent with previous determinations in galactic sources . </S>",
    "<S> simultaneous radio and x - ray lightcurves are presented and the x - ray hardness ratio shows the source to be on the horizontal branch where jets are expected . </S>",
    "<S> the observations support our proposal that jet formation can in future be predicted based on x - ray intensity increases beyond a critical value .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    acceleration of particles  accretion : accretion disks  binaries : close  stars : individual : cygnusx-2  x - rays : binaries </S>"
  ]
}