{
  "article_text": [
    "arabic is often written using latin characters in transliterated form , which is often referred to as arabizi , arabish , franco - arab , and other names .",
    "arabizi uses numerals to represent arabic letters for which there is no phonetic equivalent in english or to account for the fact that arabic has more letters than english .",
    "for example ,  2 \" and  3 \" represent the letters < a > ( that sounds like  a \" as in apple ) and <  > ( that is a guttural  aa \" ) respectively .",
    "arabizi is particularly popular in arabic social media .",
    "arabizi has grown out of a need to write arabic on systems that do not support arabic script natively .",
    "for example , internet explorer 5.0 , which was released in march 1999 , was the first version of the browser to support arabic display natively .",
    "windows mobile and android did not support arabic except through third party support until versions 6.5x and 3.x respectively . despite the increasing support of arabic in many platforms",
    ", arabizi continues to be popular due to the familiarity of users with it and the higher proficiency of users to use an english keyboard compared to an arabic keyboard .",
    "arabizi is used to present both msa as well as different arabic dialects , which lack spelling conventions and differ morphologically and phonetically from msa .",
    "additionally , due to the fact that many of the arabic speakers are bilingual ( with their second language being either english or french ) , another commonly observed phenomenon is the presence of english ( or french ) and arabizi mixed together within sentences , where users code switch between both languages . in this paper",
    "we focus on performing two tasks , namely : detecting arabizi even when juxtaposed with english ; and converting arabizi to arabic script regardless of being msa or dialectal .",
    "detecting and converting arabizi to arabic script would help : ease the reading of the text , where arabizi is difficult to read ; allow for the processing of arabizi ( post conversion ) using existing nlp tools ; and normalize arabic and arabizi into a unified form for text processing and search . detecting and converting arabizi are complicated by the following challenges :    1 .",
    "due to the lack of spelling conventions for arabizi and arabic dialectal text , which arabizi often encodes , building a comprehensive dictionary of arabizi words is prohibitive . consider the following examples : 1 .   the msa word < t.hryr > ( liberty ) has the following popular arabizi spellings : ta7rir , t7rir , tahrir , ta7reer , tahreer , etc .",
    "2 .   the dialectal equivalents to the msa < la ylb > ( he does not play ) could be < mabylb^s > , < mablb^s > , < mylb^s > , < maylb^s >  etc",
    ". the resultant arabizi could be : mayel3absh , mabyelaabsh , mabyel3absh ,  etc .",
    "some arabizi and english words share a common spelling , making solely relying on an english dictionary insufficient to identify english words .",
    "consider the following examples ( ambiguous words are bolded ) : 1 .",
    "ana 3awez aroo7 * men * america leh canada ( i want to go from america to canada ) . the word  men \" meaning  from \" is also an english word .",
    "i called * mohamed * last night . ",
    "mohamed \" in this context is an english word , though it is a transliterated arabic name .",
    "3 .   within social media",
    ", users often use creative spellings of english words to shorten text , emphasize , or express emotion .",
    "this can complicate the differentiation of english and arabizi . consider the following examples : 1 .",
    "i want 2 go with u tmrw , cuz my car is broken .",
    "2 .   woooooow .",
    "ur car is cooooooool .    due to these factors , classifying a word as arabizi or english has to be done in - context .",
    "thus , we employed sequence labeling using conditional random fields ( crf ) to detect arabizi in context .",
    "the crf was trained using word - level and sequence - level features . for converting arabizi to arabic script",
    ", we used transliteration mining in combination with a large arabic language model that covers both msa and other arabic dialects to properly choose the best transliterations in context .",
    "the contributions of this paper are :    * we employed sequence labeling that is trained using word - level and sequence - level features to identify in - sentence code - switching between two languages that share a common alphabet . *",
    "we used transliteration mining and language modeling to convert form arabizi to arabic script . *",
    "we plan to publicly release all our training and test data .",
    "the remainder of the paper is organized as follows : section 2 provides related work ; section 3 presents our arabizi detection and reports on the detection accuracy ; section 4 describes our arabizi to arabic conversion approach and reports the accuracy of conversion ; and section 5 concludes the paper .",
    "there are two aspects to this work : the first is language identification , and the second is transliteration .",
    "there is much work on language identification including open source utilities , such as the language detection library for java .",
    "murthy and kumar   surveyed many techniques for language identification .",
    "some of the more successful techniques use character n - gram models  @xcite in combination with a machine learning technique such as hidden markov models ( hmm ) or bayesian classification  @xcite .",
    "murthy and kumar   used logistic regression - like classification that employed so - called  aksharas \" which are sub - word character sequences as features for identifying different indian languages .",
    "ehara and tanaka - ishii   developed an online language detection system that detects code switching during typing , suggests the language to switch to to the user , and interactively invokes the appropriate text entry method .",
    "they used hmm based language identification in conjunction with an n - gram character language model .",
    "they reported up to 97% accuracy when detecting between two languages on a synthetic test set . in our work , we performed offline word - level language identification using crf sequence labeling , which conceptually combines logistic regression - like discriminative classification with an hmm - like generative model  @xcite .",
    "we opted to use a crf sequence labeling because it allowed us to use both state and sequence features , which in our case corresponded to word- and sequence - level features respectively .",
    "one of the downsides of using a crf sequence labeler is that most implementations , including crf++ which was used in this work , only use nominal features .",
    "this required us to quantize all real - valued features . converting between from arabizi to arabic",
    "is akin to transliteration or transliteration mining ( tm ) .",
    "in transliteration , a sequence in a source alphabet or writing system is used to generate a phonetically similar sequence in a target alphabet or writing system . in tm , a sequence in a source alphabet or writing system",
    "is used to find the most similar sequence in a lexicon that is written in the target alphabet or writing system .",
    "both problems are fairly well studied with multiple evaluation campaigns , particularly at the different editions of the named entities workshop ( news )  @xcite . in our work",
    "we relied on tm from a large corpus of arabic microblogs .",
    "tm typically involves using transliteration pairs in two different writing systems or alphabets to learning character ( or character - sequence ) level mappings between them .",
    "the learning can be done using the em algorithm  @xcite or hmm alignment  @xcite .",
    "once these mappings are learned , a common approach involves using a generative model that attempts to generate all possible transliterations of a source word , given the character mappings between two languages , and restricting the output to words in the target language  @xcite .",
    "other approaches include the use of locality sensitive hashing  @xcite and classification  @xcite .",
    "another dramatically different approaches involves the unsupervised learning of transliteration mappings from a large parallel corpus instead of transliteration pairs  @xcite . in our work",
    ", we used the baseline system of el - kahky et al .",
    "there are three commercial input method editors ( imes ) that convert from arabizi to arabic , namely : yamli , microsoft maren , and google t3reeb .",
    "since they are imes , they only work in an interactive mode and do nt allow for batch processing .",
    "thus they are difficult to compare against .",
    "also , from interactively using arabic imes , it seems that they only use unigram language modeling .",
    "as mentioned earlier , classifying words as english or arabizi requires the use of word - level and sequence - level features .",
    "we opted to use crf sequence labeling to identify arabizi words .",
    "we used the crf++ implementation with default parameters  @xcite .",
    "we constructed training and test sets for word - level language classification from tweets that contain english , arabizi , or a mixture of english and arabizi .",
    "we collected the tweets in the following manner :    1 .",
    "we issued commonly used arabizi words as queries against twitter multiple times .",
    "these words were ",
    "e7na \" ( we ) ,  3shan \" ( because ) , and  la2a \" ( no ) .",
    "we issued these queries every 30 seconds for roughly 1 hour .",
    "we put large time gaps between queries to insure that the results were refreshed .",
    "we extracted the user ids of all the authors of the tweets that we found , and used the ids as queries to twitter to get the remaining tweets that they have authored .",
    "our intuition was that tweeps who authored once in arabizi would likely have more arabizi tweets .",
    "doing so helped us find arabizi tweets that do nt necessarily have the aforementioned common words and helped us find significantly more arabizi text . in all we identified 265 tweeps who authored 16,507 tweets in the last 7 days , containing 132,236 words .",
    "of the words in the tweets , some of them were english , but most of them were arabizi .",
    ".[labels]used labels for words [ cols=\"^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     * in context evaluation .",
    "* in this evaluation , we computed accuracy of producing the correct transliterated equivalent in context . for in context evaluation , if we used a baseline that used the top out - of - context choice , we would achieve 77.1% accuracy . adding a trigram language model",
    ", we achieved an accuracy of 88.7% ( 157 wrong out of 1,385 ) .",
    "of the wrong guesses , 91 were completely unrelated words and 46 were spelling or morphological variants .",
    "in this paper , we presented methods of detecting arabizi that is mixed with english text and converting arabizi to arabic . for language detection we used a sequence labeler that used word and character level features .",
    "language detection was trained and tested on datasets that were constructed from tweets .",
    "we achieved an overall accuracy of 98.5% . for converting from arabizi to arabic",
    ", we trained a transliteration miner that attempted to find the most likely arabic word that could have generated an arabizi word .",
    "we used both character transliteration probabilities as well as language modeling .",
    "we achieved 88.7% transliteration accuracy . for future work",
    ", we would like to experiment with additional training data and improved language models that account for the morphological complexities of arabic . also , the lack of spelling conventions for arabic dialects may warrant detecting variant spellings of individual dialectal words and perhaps converting from dialectal text to msa .",
    "b. alex , a. dubey , and f. keller .",
    "2007 . using foreign inclusion detection to improve parsing performance . in proceedings of emnlp - conll k. beesley . 1988 .",
    "language identifier : a computer program for automatic natural - language identification of on - line text .",
    "proceedings of the 29th annual conference of the american translators association , 4754 .",
    "kareem darwish , walid magdy , and ahmed mourad .",
    "language processing for arabic microblog retrieval .",
    "proceedings of the 21st acm international conference on information and knowledge management .",
    "acm , 2012. t. dunning .",
    "1994 . statistical identification of language . technical report ,",
    "crl mccs-94 - 273 , new mexico state university .",
    "y. ehara , k. tanaka - ishii .",
    "multilingual text entry using automatic language detection . in proceedings of ijcnlp-2008 .",
    "ali el - kahky , kareem darwish , ahmed saad aldein , mohamed abd el - wahab , ahmed hefny , and waleed ammar .",
    "2001 . improved transliteration mining using graph reinforcement . in proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in natural language processing ,",
    "pp . 1384 - 1393 .",
    "association for computational linguistics , 2011 .",
    "marcello federico , nicola bertoldi , and mauro cettolo .",
    "irstlm : an open source toolkit for handling large scale language models .",
    "proceedings of interspeech .",
    "2008. nizar habash .",
    "introduction to arabic natural language processing .",
    "synthesis lectures on human language technologies 3.1 ( 2010 ) : 1 - 187. sittichai jiampojamarn , kenneth dwyer , shane bergsma , aditya bhargava , qing dou , mi - young kim and grzegorz kondrak .",
    "transliteration generation and mining with limited training resources .",
    "acl news workshop 2010 philipp koehn , hieu hoang , alexandra birch , chris callison - burch , marcello federico , nicola bertoldi , brooke cowan , wade shen , christine moran , richard zens , chris dyer , ondrej bojar , alexandra constantin , evan herbst , moses : open source toolkit for statistical machine translation , annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics ( acl ) , demonstration session , prague , czech republic , june 2007 .",
    "jin - shea kuo , haizhou li , ying - kuei yang .",
    "learning transliteration lexicons from the web .",
    "coling - acl 2006 , sydney , australia , 11291136 .",
    "j. lafferty , a. mccallum , and f. pereira .",
    "conditional random fields : probabilistic models for segmenting and labeling sequence data , in proc . of icml , pp.282 - 289 , 2001 .",
    "kavi narayana murthy and g. bharadwaja kumar .",
    "language identification from small text samples .",
    "journal of quantitative linguistics 13.01 ( 2006 ) : 57 - 80 .",
    "sara noeman and amgad madkour .",
    "language independent transliteration mining system using finite state automata framework .",
    "acl news workshop 2010 .",
    "hassan sajjad , alexander fraser , helmut schmid .",
    "2012 . a statistical model for unsupervised and semi - supervised transliteration mining .",
    "acl ( 1 ) 2012 : 469 - 477 f. sha and f. pereira . 2003 . shallow parsing with conditional random fields , in proc . of hlt / naacl 2003 raghavendra udupa , k. saravanan , anton bakalov , abhijit bhole",
    "`` they are out there , if you know where to look '' : mining transliterations of oov query terms for cross - language information retrieval .",
    "ecir-2009 , toulouse , france , 2009 .",
    "raghavendra udupa , shaishav kumar .",
    "hashing - based approaches to spelling correction of personal names .",
    "emnlp 2010 .",
    "a. xafopoulos , c. kotropoulos , g. almpanidis , i. pitas .",
    "2004 . language identification in web documents using discrete hidden markov models .",
    "pattern recognition , 37 ( 3 ) , 583594 min zhang , a kumaran , haizhou li .",
    "whitepaper of news 2012 shared task on machine transliteration .",
    "ijcnlp-2011 news workshop .",
    "min zhang , haizhou li , ming liu , a kumaran .",
    "whitepaper of news 2012 shared task on machine transliteration .",
    "acl-2012 news workshop ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> arabizi is arabic text that is written using latin characters . </S>",
    "<S> arabizi is used to present both modern standard arabic ( msa ) or arabic dialects . </S>",
    "<S> it is commonly used in informal settings such as social networking sites and is often with mixed with english . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we address the problems of : identifying arabizi in text and converting it to arabic characters . </S>",
    "<S> we used word and sequence - level features to identify arabizi that is mixed with english . </S>",
    "<S> we achieved an identification accuracy of 98.5% . </S>",
    "<S> as for conversion , we used transliteration mining with language modeling to generate equivalent arabic text . </S>",
    "<S> we achieved 88.7% conversion accuracy , with roughly a third of errors being spelling and morphological variants of the forms in ground truth . </S>"
  ]
}