{
  "article_text": [
    "the majority of sun - like stars form in binary or multiple star systems @xcite and circumbinary disks result from their formation processes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the disks are similar to circumstellar disks but the central binary provides a torque on the inner edges of the disk that prevents the majority of the accretion flow on to the binary .",
    "thus , circumbinary disks resemble decretion , rather than accretion , disks @xcite .",
    "these disks are the site for circumbinary planet formation .",
    "there are currently at least thirteen circumbinary planets that have been observed .",
    "about half of these are around evolved stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "there are six planetary systems with a total of seven planets observed around main - sequence close binary stars ( see table  1 ) .",
    "the planets in these systems lie at radii of only a few times the binary separation , where several physical effects are likely to make planet formation more difficult than at the equivalent radius in a circumstellar disk .",
    "first , the predicted collision velocities of planetesimals  if treated as test particles in a massless disk  are boosted by the secular eccentricity imparted from the binary ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the equilibrium eccentricity depends on the magnitude of gas drag , and is strongly suppressed by precession from even a moderately massive gas disk @xcite .",
    "nonetheless , estimates suggest that in situ formation of the observed circumbinary planets is unlikely ; the observed planets must have formed farther out in the disk and migrated inwards @xcite .",
    "this scenario is supported by hydrodynamical simulations of the evolution of planetary cores @xcite .",
    "second , both the radial and non - axisymmetric structure @xcite of the gas will be modified by the torque from the binary , altering both the aerodynamic migration of small solids and the type  i migration of planetary cores .",
    "finally , it has been suggested that the interaction between the binary perturbation and stochastic planetesimal excitation from turbulence @xcite may lead to higher equilibrium eccentricities in circumbinary as compared to circumstellar disks @xcite .    if a circumstellar or circumbinary disk is fully ionized , the magnetorotational instability ( mri ) drives turbulence and angular momentum transport @xcite .",
    "however , below a critical level of ionization , a dead zone may form at the midplane where the mri does not operate @xcite .",
    "surface layers of the disk may be ionized by cosmic rays or x - rays from the central stars @xcite .",
    "the restricted flow through the disk causes a build up of material in the dead zone .",
    "moreover , the quiescent dead zone layer allows solids to settle to the midplane and is thus a favourable formation site for planets .    in this work ,",
    "we compute simplified models for poorly ionized circumbinary disks that contain dead zones .",
    "we show that all of the aforementioned physical processes that impact planet formation in circumbinary disks are strongly modified in dead zones , and argue that circumbinary planet formation may even be easier than circumstellar planet formation at particular disk radii .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ table2 ]      a non - zero viscosity in the the dead zone is uncertain and thus we have assumed that the dead zone has zero turbulence , @xmath1 , in most of our models .",
    "however , shearing box simulations suggest that the mhd turbulence generated in the disk surface layers may produce some hydrodynamic turbulence in the dead zone layer that may produce a small but non - zero viscosity ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "with this uncertainty in mind we also performed one simulation with a viscosity in the dead zone , model r3 .",
    "we choose the parameters of model r2 but include a viscous term in the dead zone with @xmath2 .",
    "we note that this is likely to be an upper limit to the viscosity in the dead zone . in a circumstellar accretion disk ,",
    "the amount of mass flow through the dead zone should be less than that through the active layer because the turbulence in the dead zone is generated by the turbulence in the active layers ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "even in this extreme case we find that the disk structure is not significantly altered .",
    "the extent of the dead zone is actually larger , but the mass in the dead zone is slightly smaller .",
    "the peak in the surface density occurs at a radius slightly closer to the binary stars , but still farther out than the region that is hostile to planetesimal formation for kepler-34 and kepler-35 .",
    "if the magnitude of the viscosity in the dead zone is reduced by a factor of around ten or more then the effect on our results is minimal .",
    "thus , we conclude that a small but non - zero viscosity in the dead zone will not significantly affect the results presented here .",
    "the table also includes some circumbinary disk models for larger separation binaries ( models r11 r13 ) . here",
    ", the surface density of the disk ( and thus the mass ) must be much larger for a dead zone to be present .",
    "for an equal mass binary with a separation of @xmath3 , the peak surface density is only @xmath4 ( at a time of @xmath5 , see model r11 ) and this decreases with binary separation ( see for example models r12 and r13 ) .",
    "if a dead zone is required for planet formation , this suggests that circumbinary planet formation is far more likely in close binaries .",
    "when a massive planet forms within a disk , it can open a gap in the disk .",
    "the gap opening mass , according to the viscous criterion @xcite , will be significantly reduced in a dead zone , but the thermal criterion will be only modestly affected . even in a normal circumstellar accretion disk ,",
    "this mass is well below a jupiter mass @xcite and for the most massive planets to form , there must be accretion on to the planet across the gap @xcite .",
    "the planet captures most of the material that flows across the gap and the dead zone does not drastically affect planetary accretion in a circumstellar disk @xcite .",
    "however , in a circumbinary disk , there is very little mass flow and thus it is not clear how much accretion would occur on to a planet in this case .",
    "if the accretion is reduced significantly compared with a circumstellar accretion disk , then we would expect only lower mass gas giants to form within circumbinary disks",
    ". however , this should be investigated in future work .",
    "similarly , the presence of the dead zone with a highly reduced viscosity will mean that migration timescales are significantly different than in the turbulent disk .",
    "if planets form within the dead zone , thus removing the mass from the disk , the remaining disk may have a sufficiently low surface density that the whole disk becomes fully turbulent .",
    "thus , the remaining turbulent disk may accrete on to the planetary cores allowing the formation of giant planets in the late stages of disk evolution",
    ".    there are a number of improvements that should be made to this disk model in future , such as modelling the non - axisymmetric tidal streams , non - axisymmetric stellar irradiation and increasing the eccentricity or inclination of the binary orbit .",
    "the models presented here can not model such effects , but are a first step towards understanding the formation of dead zones in circumbinary disks .",
    "if a dead zone is present in a circumbinary disk , then it remains for the lifetime of the disk .",
    "this is because the binary torque is preventing the majority of accretion and the mass of the disk is fairly constant .",
    "the dead zone evolves on a long timescale .",
    "however , in the circumstellar disk , once the infall accretion rate drops , the dead zone may be accreted and the cosmic rays or x - rays can penetrate the whole of the less massive disk .",
    "this suggests that planet formation in close binary stars is even more likely in circumbinary disks despite the concerns about planetesimal accretion in the innermost regions .",
    "a more realistic way to measure the extent of the dead zone may be with a critical magnetic reynolds number ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the active layer surface density then varies with radius ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , models with this prescription can not account for the accretion rates observed in t tauri stars and this issue is yet to be resolved .",
    "we note also that our model does not account for mass - loss due to photoevaporation .",
    "photoevaporative winds are thought to drive final disk clearing in disks around single stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , @xcite showed that , because accretion is suppressed by the tidal torque from the binary , photoevaporation plays a much larger role in the evolution of circumbinary disks .",
    "photoevaporation steadily erodes material from near the disk inner edge , and can modify the disk structure significantly if the mass - loss rate is high enough .",
    "moreover , for the close binary separations considered here much of the photoevaporative mass - loss comes from @xmath6au radii , similar to the locations of our predicted dead zones .",
    "crudely , we expect photoevaporative mass - loss to shorten the lifetimes of the dead zone , and perhaps also to modify the radial surface density profile at radii @xmath7au",
    ". however , the interplay between photoevaporation and layered accretion can be subtle even in single - star disks @xcite , and detailed investigation of this issue is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "the increased surface density in the dead zone ( compared to a fully turbulent model ) may lead to damping of the perturbations to the planetesimals from the binary torque .",
    "for example , for a fixed disk aspect ratio , @xmath8 , the drag force increases linearly with the surface density ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) . because the drag force is also inversely proportional to the particle size",
    ", comparing the effect of particle sizes is equivalent to comparing varying surface density .",
    "the larger the particle size the larger the damping and thus we expect the increased surface density in the dead zone to increase the damping .",
    "the effect of the large surface density in the dead zone on the planetesimal perturbations should be investigated further in future work .",
    "with circumbinary disk models we find a dead zone typically extends from a radius close to the inner disk edge up to a radius of around @xmath0 for a close binary .",
    "the dead zone provides a quiescent region where solids can settle to the mid - plane , ideal for planet formation .",
    "a peak in the surface density occurs in the dead zone , far from the inner disk edge , and dust particles of all sizes drift towards this radius .",
    "thus , the binary torque , that makes the inner regions of the disk hostile to planetesimal accretion , may not affect the growth of planetesimals in a disk with a dead zone .",
    "the currently observed circumbinary planets likely formed in such a region before their inward migration to their current location .",
    "the snow line typically occurs close to but slightly outside of the peak in the surface density .",
    "thus , we expect both massive gas giants and terrestrial planets to form in such disks . because the binary provides a torque on the disk preventing accretion , the dead zone is not accreted on to the binary and lasts the lifetime of the disk",
    ". thus , planet formation may be even more likely in circumbinary disks around close binaries than in circumstellar disks .",
    "dead zones around wide binaries are less likely and thus we suggest planet formation may be more difficult there .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for useful comments .",
    "rgm s support was provided in part under contract with the california institute of technology ( caltech ) funded by nasa through the sagan fellowship program .",
    "pja acknowledges support from nasa under grant hst - ar-12814 awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contact nas 5 - 26555 , and from nasa s origins of solar systems program under grant nnx13ai58 g .",
    "rda acknowledges support from the science & technology facilities council ( stfc ) through an advanced fellowship ( st / g00711x/1 ) and consolidated grant st / k001000/1 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> circumbinary planets have been observed at orbital radii where binary perturbations may have significant effects on the gas disk structure , on planetesimal velocity dispersion , and on the coupling between turbulence and planetesimals . </S>",
    "<S> here , we note that the impact of all of these effects on planet formation is qualitatively altered if the circumbinary disk structure is layered , with a non - turbulent midplane layer ( dead zone ) and strongly turbulent surface layers . for close binaries , we find that the dead zone typically extends from a radius close to the inner disk edge up to a radius of around @xmath0 from the centre of mass of the binary . </S>",
    "<S> the peak in the surface density occurs within the dead zone , far from the inner disk edge , close to the snow line , and may act as a trap for aerodynamically coupled solids . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that circumbinary planet formation may be _ easier _ near this preferential location than for disks around single stars . </S>",
    "<S> however , dead zones around wide binaries are less likely and hence planet formation may be more difficult there . </S>"
  ]
}