{
  "article_text": [
    "after the discovery of the supermassive black hole within the center of the galaxy with the mass of the order of that expected in some active galaxies , it has been suspected that the galactic center ( gc ) should be the site of acceleration of particles to high energies .",
    "in fact , @xmath1-ray emission was detected from the source 3eg j1746 - 2851 towards gc in the gev energy range already by the egret telescope ( hartman et al .",
    "1999 , mayer - hasselwander et al .",
    "the existence of this source was recently confirmed by the fermi - lat observations ( abdo et al .",
    "observations with various cherenkov telescopes discovered also the @xmath1-ray emission extending up to several tev ( tsuchiya et al .",
    "2004 , kosack et al .  2004 ,",
    "aharonian et al .",
    "2004 , albert et al .",
    "although gc varies strongly at lower energies , the gev - tev flux seems to be steady in the time period of several years .",
    "the @xmath1-ray emission from gc shows two distinct components since an extrapolation of the multi - gev spectrum does not meet the level of the tev emission ( chernyakova et al .",
    "the tev spectrum is well described by a power law ( differential spectral index @xmath3 ) with an exponential cut - off at @xmath4 tev ( aharonian et al .",
    "2009 ) , extending up to a few tens of tev ( aharonian et al .",
    "the tev source is coincident with the position of the supermassive black hole sgr a@xmath5 within an error circle of @xmath6 arcsec .",
    "an upper limit on the source size of 1.3 arc min , corresponding to @xmath03 pc , was derived by acero et al .",
    "( 2010 ) .",
    "different models usually relate the production of @xmath1-rays to the existence of the central supermassive black hole ( sgr a@xmath5 ) or a plerion discovered within the central few arcseconds ( wang et al .",
    "in the first class of models , sgr a@xmath5 is responsible for the acceleration of leptons ( e.g. atoyan & dermer  2004 , hinton & aharonian  2007 , kusunose & takahara  2012 ) , hadrons ( e.g. liu et al .",
    "2006 , ballantyne et al .",
    "2011 , chernyakova et al .  2011 , linden et al .",
    "2012 , fatuzzo & melia  2012 ) , or both ( e.g. yi - qing et al .",
    "2013 ) . in this work",
    ", we consider the hypothesis in which the central stellar cluster in the gc is responsible for the high energy processes observed from the direction of sgr a@xmath5 . following the proposition of wang et al .",
    "( 2005 , see also abazajian  2011 ) we assume that the gev @xmath1-ray emission is due to the cumulative effect of several globular clusters captured by the central black hole .",
    "in fact , @xmath1-ray emission with very similar spectral features has been recently detected by fermi - lat from globular clusters ( abdo et al .",
    "the pulsar population within globular clusters should also efficiently accelerate leptons to multi - tev energies ( see bednarek & sitarek  2007 ) .",
    "therefore , we propose that the tev @xmath1-rays from the direction of gc are produced by leptons with multi - tev energies which inverse compton up - scatter the infrared and optical background in the central stellar cluster around the supermassive black hole identified with the sgr a@xmath5 .",
    "the central region of the galaxy contains a stellar cluster with the mass of @xmath7 m@xmath8 surrounding the central supermassive black hole with the mass @xmath9 m@xmath8 .",
    "the nature of this cluster is not clear .",
    "it is argued that such cluster could appear as a result of a merger of several globular clusters ( glcs ) due to dynamical friction ( antonini et al .",
    "2012 , capuzzo - dolcetta et al .",
    "the central cluster has a uniform core with the radius of @xmath10 pc and the stellar density profile outside the core described by the function @xmath11 up to @xmath12 pc .",
    "it is well known that globular clusters contain large populations of millisecond pulsars ( msps ) .",
    "in fact , about half of observed msps were discovered within globular clusters ( harris 1996 ) .",
    "it is estimated that some globular clusters may contain up to a few hundred msps .",
    "these expectations are consistent with the recent observations of the gev @xmath1-ray emission from several gcs by the fermi - lat telescope ( abdo et al .",
    "2009 , abdo et al .",
    "2010b , kong et al .",
    "2010 , tam et al .",
    "if the above hypothesis is correct , then the central stellar cluster could contain up to a few tausend msps which might be responsible for the observed gev emission from the galactic center ( see the model by wang et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "we propose that msps in the gc can accelerate leptons to @xmath13 tev in their wind regions .",
    "in fact , efficient acceleration of particles to energies of this order is observed in the case of the winds around several classical pulsars .",
    "the acceleration in the winds of msps is expected to occur similarly since the processes in the inner magnetospheres of both groups of pulsars are expected to be the same ( similar spectral features of the pulsed gev emission ) .",
    "note that a similar scenario has been recently considered in the models for the tev @xmath1-ray emission from glcs ( e.g. bednarek & sitarek  2007 , venter et al .",
    "2009 , cheng et al .",
    "2010 ) .    in the next section ,",
    "we constrain the model for acceleration of leptons in gc .",
    "their diffusion process within the central parsec of the galaxy and their interaction with the radiation field are considered . for the basic parameters determining such model we adopt those generally consistent with the observational constraints on the magnetic field strength in the central region of the gc ( @xmath14 g , crocker et al .",
    "2010 ) and on the gc infrared and optical radiation field ( energy densities @xmath15 ev @xmath16 , mezger et al .",
    "1996 , kusunose & takahara  2012 ) .",
    "leptons injected into such environment diffuse from the central cluster losing energy on the synchrotron and inverse compton ( ic ) radiation .",
    "our calculations show that the tev @xmath1-ray emission observed from the gc up to a few tens of tev can be explained by the ic emission from leptons , accelerated in the winds of msp , which up - scatter the diffusive soft radiation field in the gc .",
    "in our model , msps are responsible for the acceleration of leptons in the central stellar cluster in gc .",
    "a msp creates a strong pulsar winds with the power defined by the pulsar basic parameters , @xmath17 where @xmath18 g is the pulsar surface magnetic field strength , and @xmath19 ms is the pulsar rotational period .",
    "the mean distance between msps within the central cluster in gc can be estimated as , @xmath20 where @xmath21 pc is the core radius of the central cluster , and @xmath22 is the number of msps within the central cluster .",
    "the msps move within the core of the central cluster with typical rotational velocities in the gravitational potential of the cluster of the order of , @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the gravitational constant , @xmath25 m@xmath8 is the mass of the cluster within @xmath26 .",
    "the wind of msp interacts with the cluster medium creating a bow shock with the radius , @xmath27 , that can be determined from the comparison of the kinetic energy density of the medium ( relative to pulsar ) and the energy density of the pulsar wind , @xmath28 where @xmath29 erg / s is the energy loss rate of the pulsar , @xmath30 is the velocity of light , @xmath27 is the shock radius , @xmath31 @xmath16 is the density of matter in the central cluster , and @xmath32 km s@xmath33 is the velocity of the pulsar .",
    "the distance of the shock from the pulsar is estimated from eq .  3 and 4 , @xmath34 i.e. it is much smaller than the characteristic distance between msps in the cluster core .",
    "we estimate the magnetic field strength at the shock from the pulsar site by scaling it from the pulsar surface .",
    "the dipole structure of the magnetic field is assumed within the light cylinder radius ( @xmath35 ) and its toroidal structure in the msp wind region ( @xmath36 ) .",
    "then , the magnetic field strength at the shock is of the order of , @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the magnetic field strength at the light cylinder , @xmath39 cm is the neutron star radius , @xmath40 is the magnetization parameter of the pulsar wind , and @xmath41 is the light cylinder radius .",
    "we assume that leptons are accelerated at the shock reaching a power law spectrum up to the maximum energy defined by the escape from the shock region or by their radiation energy losses .",
    "after all , the larmor radius of leptons accelerated at the pulsar wind shock , @xmath42 ( where @xmath43 is the lepton energy in tev ) , has to be smaller than the extent of the shock , @xmath27 .",
    "this allows us to put the upper limit on the lepton energy of the order of , @xmath44 note that this limit depends only on the pulsar parameters .",
    "the energies of leptons can be also limitted by their synchrotron energy losses .",
    "their maximum energies can be estimated by comparing the electron acceleration rate , @xmath45 ev s@xmath33 ( where @xmath46 is the acceleration coefficient ) , with the synchrotron energy loss rate , @xmath47 ev s@xmath33 .",
    "this comparison gives @xmath48 .",
    "the acceleration of leptons may be saturated also by their energy losses on the inverse compton process in the klein - nishina regime for the case of the infrared and optical photons .",
    "we roughly estimate lepton energy losses in the klein - nishina ( kn ) regime by applying the value of the transition from between the thomson ( t ) and kn regime , @xmath49 , where @xmath50 is the lorentz factor of leptons corresponding to the transition from the t to kn regimes . the energy density of the infrared photons ( with energies @xmath51 ev )",
    "is estimated as @xmath52 ev @xmath16 ( mezger et al .",
    "1996 ) , consistently with the observations of davidson  ( 1992 ) .",
    "the optical background , which is less important here due to the more energetic photons , is estimated as @xmath53 ev s@xmath33 ( mezger et al .",
    "therefore , the ic energy losses in the kn regime can not additionally constrain the maximum energies of leptons accelerated to energies given by eq .",
    "we conclude that for likely parameters of the acceleration scenario ( e.g. @xmath54 for the relativistic pulsar wind and @xmath55 g ) the limit due to energy losses of leptons are clearly less restrictive than the above limit due to the larmor radii of particles .",
    "therefore , we conclude that electrons can reach energies of the order of @xmath13 tev for typical parameters of the msps within the central cluster ( e.g. rotational period of 2 ms and surface magnetic field of @xmath56 g , see e.g. wang et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "leptons accelerated at the msp wind shocks with the power law spectrum extending up to energies of the order of a few tens of tev diffuse outside the cluster interacting mainly with the infrared and optical radiation field of the central cluster .",
    "we consider three prescriptions for the diffusion model of leptons in the central cluster . in the first model",
    ", we assume that the magnetic field in the region between the shocks is highly turbulent . therefore , the bohm diffusion prescription seems to be appropriate .",
    "the diffusion coefficient is then given by , @xmath57 in the second diffusion model , we apply a prescription for the diffusion coefficient appropriate for the kolmogorov spectrum of turbulence which is more characteristic for the medium in the galactic disk . in this case , the diffusion coefficient has the form , @xmath58 the diffusion coefficient has been normalized in the way described in bednarek & protheroe  ( 2002 ) , i.e. to the case when the larmor radius is equal to the extend of the size of the diffusion region assumed to be equal to 3 pc . in the third diffusion model",
    "we assume the kolmogorov prescription for the diffusion coefficient but with its value one order of magnitude larger .",
    "we calculate the ic @xmath1-ray spectra produced by leptons in the model discussed above . for this purpose",
    "we apply the monte carlo code developed for the @xmath1-ray production in glcs ( bednarek & sitarek  2007 ) .",
    "we follow the propagation of leptons in the magnetic and radiation field of the central stellar cluster up to the distance of 3 pc from the center assuming that density of radiation is uniform within the core with the radius of 0.5 pc and for larger distances drop according to @xmath59 ( see capuzzo - dolcetta et al .",
    "these leptons are injected with the differential power law spectrum ( spectral index 2 . ) and the cut - off at 50 tev ( see eq .",
    "8) in the core of the cluster .",
    "we take into account the synchrotron energy losses of leptons during their propagation .",
    "the dependence of the ic @xmath1-ray spectra on the parameters of the model , i.e. on the average magnetic field strength ( a ) , on the density of the infrared radiation field ( b ) , on the total optical luminosity of the central cluster ( c ) , and on the diffusion model ( d ) , is investigated in fig .  1 .",
    "we note that the ic @xmath1-ray spectra start to decline from a simple power law already below @xmath010 tev for the magnetic field strengths above @xmath60 g ( see fig .",
    "therefore , in order to explain the features of the observed tev @xmath1-ray emission from the sgr a@xmath5 , the magnetic field should be not very far from the upper limit derived by crocker et al .",
    "the effect of the density of infrared and optical photons on the calculated spectrum is rather small ( see figs .",
    "this is due to the fact that leptons already cool efficiently within the 3 pc core region of the central cluster for the whole range of the considered energy densities of the radiation field .",
    "however , low values of the infrared ( radiation ) field ( clearly below @xmath61 ev @xmath16 ) seem to be excluded in our model since the tev spectra start to cut - off below @xmath62 tev ( see fig .",
    "the @xmath1-ray spectral shape depends rather weakly on the density of optical photons in the central cluster .",
    "note however , that the maximum in the tev spectrum shifts to larger energies for a stronger optical radiation field which is due to a more efficient scattering of the optical photons by leptons in the kn regime ( see fig .",
    "the @xmath1-ray spectra depend also weakly on the applied diffusion model of leptons within the central region of galaxy . only for",
    "the largest considered values of the diffusion coefficient , in the kolmogorov model , the tev flux ( mainly around @xmath0100 gev ) starts to drop due to the escape of leptons from the cluster core ( see fig .",
    "therefore , we conclude that the expected tev @xmath1-ray emission is not strongly dependent on the considered diffusion model of leptons .",
    "4.truecm    we propose a two component origin of the high energy @xmath1-rays from the gc . the lower energy component , extending through the gev energy range , is interpreted as due to the @xmath1-ray emission from several globular clusters which create the central cluster as a result of the coalescence .",
    "this interpretation is supported by the recent discovery of gev @xmath1-rays from several glcs ( abdo et al .",
    "2010 , tam et al .",
    "in fact , the @xmath1-ray spectra of some glcs can be well described by a power law model with the exponential cut - off at a few gev",
    ". however , the broken power law model also seems to work well for some glcs especially for ter 5 , ngc 6652 , m62 ( see fig .  2 in abdo et al .",
    "2010 ) or even a single power law model for ngc 6440 ( abdo et al .",
    ". moreover , tam et al .  (",
    "2011 ) explicitly state that discovered by them @xmath1-ray emission from glcs can be well described by a single power law model ( see e.g. fig . 5 for liller 1 and fig . 6 for ngc 6624 in that paper ) .",
    "as an example , we show in fig .  2 the shape of the @xmath1-ray spectra from two glcs , ter 5 and m62 ( see solid lines marked by `` i '' and `` ii '' gc msp ) , observed by fermi - lat ( abdo et al .",
    "2010b ) , after renormalization to the @xmath1-ray flux observed from the gc . the observed level of gev emission from the gc ( e.g. chernyakova et al .",
    "2011 ) can be understood in terms of such interpretation provided that msps from several glc ( with typical gev @xmath1-ray luminosity of a few @xmath63 erg s@xmath33 , e.g. ter 5 , lilier 1 , or m62 ) are accumulated in the central stellar cluster .",
    "the second , higher energy component , in the @xmath1-ray spectrum observed from the gc by cherenkov telescopes is interpreted as due to the ic scattering of soft infrared and optical background radiation by relativistic leptons accelerated by this same population of msps . in sect .  3",
    ", we argue that leptons can be accelerated to energies of the order of a hundred tev ( see eq .",
    "8) . as an example , we compare the ic @xmath1-ray spectrum produced by these leptons with a power law spectrum , with the spectral index equal to 2 extending up to 50 tev with the hess tev measurements . the observed level of tev @xmath1-ray emission can be understood in terms of this interpretation provided that the product of the energy conversion efficiency from the msps to relativistic leptons , @xmath64 , times the number of msps , @xmath65 , is of the order of @xmath66 , if the typical parameters of the msps are @xmath67 g and @xmath68 ms .",
    "the value of @xmath64 is expected to be of the order of @xmath2 in the case of nebulae around classical pulsars ( e.g. the crab nebula ) .",
    "if the acceleration of leptons in winds of msps occurs similarly , then about a thousand of msps should be present in the central stellar cluster around sgr a@xmath69 .",
    "our monte carlo calculations of the tev @xmath1-ray spectra produced by leptons take also into account their energy losses in a relatively strong magnetic field in the central parsec around sgr a@xmath5 . the characteristic energies of the synchrotron photons produced by these leptons can be estimated from , @xmath70 ev . for leptons with the maximum energies considered in this model ( @xmath71 tev ) and the magnetic field of the order of @xmath72 g , the synchrotron emission extends up to the x - ray range .",
    "however , only a relatively small part of the lepton energy goes into the synchrotron radiation since this process starts to dominate over their energy losses on ic process ( in the kn regime ) for energies above @xmath73 tev ( estimated from energy loss rates given above ) . for leptons which scatter off soft photons in the thomson regime the energy losses on ic dominate over those on synchrotron process by a factor of @xmath74 .",
    "we find that the synchrotron x - ray emission from leptons accelerated by pulsars is consistent with the low state of the x - ray emission observed from central parsec around sgr a@xmath5 by chandra in the energy range 2 - 10 kev ( baganoff et al .",
    "2003 ) , provided that the average magnetic field strength in this region is not significantly larger than @xmath75 g .",
    "5.truecm    in the model discussed above we consider also the extend of the tev @xmath1-ray source .",
    "it should be of the order of the diffusion distance of the largest energy electrons injected into the central cluster .",
    "this diffusion distance can be estimated from @xmath76 , where @xmath77 is the diffusion coefficient given by eq .",
    "( 10 ) or eq .  (",
    "11 ) , and @xmath78 is the energy loss time scale of electrons in the kn regime , and the energy loss rate in the klein - nishina regime , @xmath79 , is given above .",
    "the largest energy losses of electrons are expected due to their scattering of the infrared radiation . for the parameters given above ( i.e. @xmath51 ev and @xmath52 ev @xmath16 ) ,",
    "the diffusion distance is estimated on @xmath80 cm in the case of bohm diffusion and @xmath81 cm in the case of kolmogorov diffusion .",
    "for the electrons with energies of 50 tev , these diffusion distances are equal to @xmath82 cm and @xmath83 cm , respectively for the bohm and kolmogorov diffusion coefficients .",
    "note that these diffusion distances are smaller than ( or comparable to ) the upper limit on the extend of the tev @xmath1-ray source at the galactic center estimated on 2.9 pc by the hess collaboration ( acero et al .",
    "we conclude that the extend of the ic source expected in our model is consistent with the observations of the tev @xmath1-ray source .",
    "we conclude that the gev @xmath1-ray emission from the central parsec around sgr a@xmath5 can be produced in the central cluster which is due to the capture of several globular clusters by the central black hole ( antonini et al .",
    "we explain the steady tev @xmath1-ray emission from this region as being produced by relativistic leptons , accelerated in the msp wind regions , which up - scatter dense infrared and optical background radiation .",
    "we estimate that in order to explain the observed level of the @xmath1-ray emission from gc the product of the conversion of the rotational energy lost by the msps to relativistic leptons , @xmath64 , and the number of msps in the central cluster , @xmath65 , has to be of the order of @xmath84 , provided that a typical pulsar magnetic field is @xmath56 g and the rotational period is @xmath85 ms ( see wang et al .",
    "the value of @xmath86 ( as observed in the case of e.g. the crab nebula ) postulates the existence of about @xmath87 msps in the central cluster around sgr a@xmath5 .",
    "we show that the extend of the tev @xmath1-ray source expected in our model is consistent with the upper limit on the source size derived by the hess collaboration ( acero et al .",
    "we perform the calculations of the tev @xmath1-ray spectrum by modifying the monte carlo code developed for the tev @xmath1-ray emission from glcs ( bednarek & sitarek  2007 ) .",
    "this version of the code takes into account the synchrotron energy losses of leptons in the strong magnetic field within the central parsec .",
    "we conclude that the level of synchrotron emission from these leptons is consistent with the level of the low state x - ray emission observed by chandra from the central parsec .",
    "our model excludes any significant variability of the gev - tev @xmath1 ray spectrum from the central region around sgr a@xmath5 below the presently observed emission level .",
    "a higher @xmath1-ray emission from this region could in principle be produced in the vicinity of the central black hole ( due to a non - stationary accretion ) or by one of variable point source in the gc ( e.g. accreating neutron star or solar mass black hole ) .",
    "however , an observation of gev - tev @xmath1-ray emission on the level clearly below the presently observed one would be inconsistent with our model .",
    "this work is supported by the grant through the polish narodowe centrum nauki no .",
    "2011/01/b / st9/00411 .",
    "99 abazajian , k.n .",
    "2011 jcap 03 , 010 abdo , a.a .",
    "2009 science 325 , 845 abdo , a.a .",
    "2010a apjs 188 405 abdo , a.a .",
    "2010b a&a 524 , a75 acero , f. et al .",
    "2010 mnras 402 , 1877 aharonian , f. et al .",
    "2004 a&a 425 , 13 aharonian , f. et al . 2009 a&a 503 , 817 albert , j. et al .",
    "2006 apj 638 , 101 antonini , f. , capuzzo - dolcetta , r. , mastrobuon - battisti , a. , merritt , d. 2012 apj 750 , 111 atoyan , a. , dermer , c.d .",
    "2004 apj 617 , l123 baganoff , f.k .",
    "2003 apj 591 , 891 ballantyne , d.r . , schumann , m. , ford , b. 2011 mnras 410 , 1521 bednarek , w , protheore , r.j .",
    "2002 aph 16 , 397 bednarek , w. , sitarek , j. 2007 mnras 337 , 920 capuzzo - dolcetta , r , arca - sedda , m. , spera , m. in nuclei of seyfert galaxies and qsos - central engine and conditions of star formation , eds . ? ? ? , ( arxiv:1302.2509 ) cheng , k.s .",
    "2010 apj 723 , 1219 chernyakova , m. et al .",
    "2011 apj 726 , 60 crocker , r.m .",
    "2010 nature 463 , 65 davidson , j.a . 1992 apj 387 , 189 fatuzzo , m. , melia , f. 2012 apj 757 , l16 harris , w.e . 1996 aj 112 , 1487 hinton , j.a . , aharonian , f.a .",
    "2007 apj 657 , 302 kong , a.k .",
    "2010 apj 712 , 36 kosack , k. et al .",
    "2004 apj 608 , 97 kusunose , k. , takahara , f. 2012 apj 748 , 34 linden , t. et al .",
    "2012 apj 753 , 41 liu , s. et al .",
    "2006 apj 647 , 1099 mayer - hasselwander , h.a . ,",
    "1998 a&a 335 , 161 mezger , p.g . ,",
    "duschl , w.j . ,",
    "zylka , r. 1996 a&ar , 7 , 289 tam , p.h.t .",
    "2011 apj 729 , 90 tsuchiya , k. et al .",
    "2004 apj 606 , 115 yi - qing , g. , qiang , y. , cheng , l. , ai - feng , l. 2013 , apj , submitted ( arxiv:1303.6394 ) venter , c. et al . 2009 apj 696 , l52 wang , w. , jiang , z.j . , cheng , k.s .",
    "2005 mnras 358 , 263 wang , q.d . ,",
    "lu , f.j . ,",
    "gotthelf , e. 2006 mnras 367 , 937"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> it was proposed that the central dense stellar cluster in the galactic center , containing the mass of @xmath04 times larger than that of the central black hole , had been formed as a result of a merging of several massive globular clusters . </S>",
    "<S> these globular clusters are expected to provide a large number of millisecond pulsars ( msps ) within the central parsec of the galactic center . </S>",
    "<S> we propose that the gev @xmath1-ray emission observed from the galactic center is in fact a cumulative effect of the emission from several globular clusters captured by the galactic center black hole . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , the millisecond pulsars in globular clusters accelerate leptons in their wind zones to energies of the order of a few tens of tev injecting them into the dense infrared and optical radiation region present within the central parsec . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate the expected tev @xmath1-ray emission produced by these leptons by the inverse compton scattering process in the soft radiation field . it is shown that this emission can be responsible for the multi - tev @xmath1-rays observed by the cherenkov telescopes from the galactic center for reasonable densities of the soft radiation , diffusion models for the propagation of leptons , their injection parameters ( fluxes and spectral proprieties ) . </S>",
    "<S> if the energy conversion efficiency from the pulsars to the relativistic leptons is of the order of @xmath2 , then about a thousand of msps have to be present in the central cluster in the galactic center .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxy : center  globular clusters : general  pulsars : general  radiation mechanisms : non - thermal  gamma - rays : general </S>"
  ]
}