{
  "article_text": [
    "simulation of the interactions with matter of electrons and of their secondary particles is one of the main tasks of any monte carlo codes for particle transport .",
    "the resulting energy deposition is relevant to a wide variety of experimental applications , where electrons contribute to determine experimental observables either as primary or secondary particles .",
    "high precision experimental measurements @xcite were performed at the sandia national laboratories specifically for the validation of the its ( integrated tiger series ) @xcite simulation code : they concern electrons with energies ranging from a few tens of kev to 1  mev , and involve various target materials and electron incidence angles .",
    "these experimental data are still regarded as the most comprehensive reference for benchmarking the simulation of energy deposition by low energy electrons : they have been exploited in the validation @xcite of numerous general purpose monte carlo codes other than the its system , for which the measurements were originally intended , such as egs @xcite , egsnrc @xcite , geant4 @xcite , mcnp @xcite , mcnpx @xcite and penelope @xcite .",
    "the validation of simulated electron energy deposition in @xcite concerns two versions of geant4 , 8.1p02 and 9.1 : the latter was the latest version available at the time when the article was written .",
    "some differences in compatibility with experiment were observed between the two geant4 versions , which were ascribed to evolutions in geant4 multiple scattering implementation .",
    "statements of improvements to geant4 simulation of electromagnetic interactions have been reported in the literature @xcite since the publication of @xcite , and a multiple scattering model specifically addressing the transport of electrons @xcite has been introduced in the geant4 toolkit .",
    "this paper documents quantitatively how these evolutions in geant4 electromagnetic physics domain affect the accuracy of the simulation of the energy deposited by low energy electrons : it reports comparisons between experimental data in @xcite and simulations based on geant4 versions from 9.1 to 9.6 , which span five years geant4 development .    in this respect , it is worthwhile to note that several versions of geant4 are actively used in the experimental community at any given time , not limited to the latest release : in fact , despite the fast release rate of geant4 of one or two new versions per year , often complemented by correction patches , experimental projects usually require a stable simulation production environment for large portions of their life - cycle and retain a geant4 version in their simulation productions for an extended period , even though new versions may become available in the meantime .",
    "besides the effects due to the evolution of geant4 electromagnetic physics , this paper evaluates quantitatively another issue of experimental relevance : the sensitivity to physics modeling features in relation to the geometrical granularity of the detector .",
    "the results of this validation analysis provide guidance to experimental users in optimizing the configuration of geant4-based applications in scenarios concerned by the simulation of the energy deposited by low energy electrons .",
    "this investigation may be relevant also to high energy experiments , since low energy electrons contribute to the determination of the characteristics of electromagnetic showers initiated by high energy particles , or the signal produced in detectors in general .",
    "the validation tests reported here contribute to improve geant4 by objectively identifying areas where its capability of reproducing experimental measurements could profit from more refined physics modeling or software engineering methods .",
    "this validation study covers two experimental scenarios : the longitudinal pattern of the energy deposited by electrons in a segmented calorimeter , and the total energy deposited in a bulk calorimeter .",
    "test cases , characterized by electron energy , beam incidence angle and target material , are reproduced in the simulation for both scenarios according to the respective experimental references @xcite .",
    "the test cases involving uranium as target material are not considered in the validation process , since concerns were expressed about the presence of systematic errors in the calorimeter data for this material @xcite .",
    "the physics configuration activated in the simulation ( selection of geant4 processes , models and secondary production thresholds ) is the same in both scenarios ; only the geometrical configuration and the scored observable differ , as they reflect the respective experimental set - up .",
    "this application design feature allows the evaluation of the sensitivity of different observables to the physics modeling options available in geant4 and to the evolution of geant4 kernel .    in both scenarios",
    "three sets of electron - photon interaction models are evaluated :    * the models based on the eedl ( evaluated electron data library ) @xcite and epdl ( evaluated photon data library ) @xcite , also known as `` livermore models '' , included in geant4 `` low energy '' electromagnetic package @xcite , * the models reengineered from the penelope @xcite monte carlo code , also belonging to the  low energy \" package , * the models included in geant4 `` standard '' electromagnetic package @xcite .",
    "in addition , the effects of different multiple scattering models on the energy deposition patterns corresponding to the two scenarios are estimated .",
    "simulations are produced with six geant4 versions released between late 2007 and late 2012 ; correction patches to these versions released by the end of february 2013 are applied on top of the original versions . for convenience ,",
    "the geant4 versions evaluated in this study are identified through their original version number ; the corresponding patched versions used to produce the results reported in this paper are listed in table [ tab_versions ] .",
    ".geant4 versions subject to test [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab_mcnemar80gs ]",
    "the extensive investigation of the capability of geant4 to simulate the energy deposited by electrons summarized in this paper updates the results published in @xcite to reflect the improvements to geant4 electromagnetic physics mentioned in @xcite .",
    "simulations involving different geant4 physics modeling options and geant4 versions have been compared with high precision experimental measurements , concerning electrons of energy up to approximately 1  mev , various beam angles and materials .",
    "the validation of geant4 simulation capabilities is quantified by means of the statistical analysis of simulated and experimental distributions .",
    "the investigation was concerned with two experimental observables : the longitudinal energy deposition profile in thin layers ( of approximately 5 to 90  @xmath0 m thickness ) as a function of penetration depth , and the total energy deposited in larger volumes ( of approximately 0.5 - 5  mm thickness ) .",
    "largely different conclusions can be drawn regarding the compatibility of the simulation with experimental measurements in the two scenarios .",
    "simulations involving a coarser geometry exhibit limited sensitivity to different physics modeling options and the evolution of geant4 electromagnetic physics , while the capability of simulating the energy deposited in layers of a few tens of micrometers thickness appears to deteriorate in later versions with respect to the results achieved by geant4 9.1 . regarding energy deposition profiles in thin layers , equivalent or better accuracy of simulations based on later geant4 versions with respect to 9.1",
    "is excluded with 0.01 significance .",
    "the implementation of electron multiple scattering in geant4 significantly affects the accuracy of energy deposition .",
    "the urban93 model appears responsible for degraded accuracy of the energy deposition simulation with respect to simulations using other variants of the urban model .",
    "the goudsmit - saunderson model , specialized for the simulation of electron multiple scattering , is responsible for degraded accuracy with respect to the urban95 model in both experimental scenarios ; with respect to the urban92 and urban93 models applied by default in geant4 9.3 and 9.4 , it contributes to comparable inaccuracy in the thin layer scenario , but to less inaccurate results in the coarse grained one .",
    "statistically superior accuracy is achieved with geant4 9.1 by using electron - photon models based on eedl - epdl , rather than other modeling alternatives , in the simulation of energy deposition profiles in thin layers . in the same scenario ,",
    "electron - photon models in geant4 standard electromagnetic package and models reengineered from penelope exhibit statistically equivalent behavior .",
    "all electron - photon modeling alternatives produce equivalent results in simulations of coarse - grained detectors .",
    "no significant difference is associated with implementations reengineered from penelope 2001 and 2008 .",
    "it is worthwhile to stress that these conclusions pertain to the experimental scenarios studied in this paper and should not be taken as general reflections of the performance of different geant4 versions and physics models for all experimental scenarios .    from the perspective of using geant4 in experimental applications dealing with the energy deposition by electrons in similar scenarios to those considered here ,",
    "the simulation requirements of coarse - grained detectors can be satisfied by most of the geant4 models and versions evaluated in this paper .",
    "experiments concerned with accurate simulation of the energy deposition patterns produced by low energy electrons may prefer geant4 9.1 , using eedl - epdl based electron - photon models , with respect to later versions and other physics options .",
    "the risk of negative improvements as a result of evolutions in geant4 electromagnetic physics could be mitigated by the adoption of sound software engineering methods in support of physics modeling in geant4 development process .",
    "best practices in change management and software testing are embedded in established software process frameworks such as the unified model @xcite , cmmi ( capability maturity model integration ) @xcite and iso  15504 @xcite , or documented in specialized standards such as @xcite .",
    "the adoption of a more agile software design of geant4 electromagnetic physics @xcite , characterized by classes with focused responsibilities and minimal dependencies , facilitates both the validation of geant4 physics functionality and the transparency of the related change management process .",
    "regular use of statistical methods is recommended to quantify the compatibility with experimental measurements in the course of geant4 evolution .",
    "the geant4-based simulation application used for this paper encompasses code implemented by anton lechner and manju sudhakar for the study published in @xcite .",
    "g. j. lockwood , g. h. miller and j. a. halbleib , `` absolute measurement of low energy electron deposition profiles in semi - infinite geometries '' _ ieee trans .",
    "20 , no . 6 , pp .",
    "326 - 330 , 1973 .",
    "j. a. halbleib and t. a. mehlhorn , `` its : the integrated tiger series of coupled electron / photon monte carlo transport codes '' , sandia national laboratories report no .",
    "sand84 - 0573 , albuquerque , november 1984 .",
    "o. chibani and x. a. li , `` monte carlo dose calculations in homogeneous media and at interfaces : a comparison between gepts , egsnrc , mcnp , and measurements '' , _ med .",
    "835 - 847 , 2002 .",
    "h. k. kim and o. kum , `` development of a parallel electron and photon transport ( pmcept ) code ii : absorbed dose computation in homogeneous and heterogeneous media '' , _ j. korean phys . society _",
    "1640 - 1651 , 2006 .",
    "a. lechner , m. g. pia , and m. sudhakar `` validation of geant4 low energy electromagnetic processes against precision measurements of electron energy deposit '' , _ ieee trans .",
    "398 - 416 , 2009 .",
    "j.  baro , j.  sempau , j. m.  fernandez - varea , and f.  salvat , `` penelope , an algorithm for monte carlo simulation of the penetration and energy loss of electrons and positrons in matter '' , _ nucl .",
    "b _ , vol . 100 , no",
    "31 - 46 , 1995 .",
    "j. allison et al . , `` new geant4 model and interface developments for improved space electron transport simulations : first results '' , in _ proc .",
    "radiation and its effects on components and systems ( radecs ) _ pp .",
    "115 - 118 , 2011 .",
    "o. kadri , v. ivanchenkob , f. gharbi , and a. trabelsi , `` incorporation of the goudsmit - saunderson electron transport theory in the geant4 monte carlo code '' , _ nucl .",
    "b _ , vol .",
    "23 - 24 , pp . 3624 - 3632 , 2009 .",
    "s.  t.  perkins , d.  e.  cullen , and s.  m.  seltzer , `` tables and graphs of electron - interaction cross sections from 10 ev to 100 gev derived from the llnl evaluated electron data library ( eedl ) '' , ucrl-50400 vol .",
    "31 , 1997 .",
    "s. chauvie , g. depaola , v. ivanchenko , f. longo , p. nieminen and m. g. pia , `` geant4 low energy electromagnetic physics '' , in _ proc . computing in high energy and nuclear physics _ ,",
    "beijing , china , pp .",
    "337 - 340 , 2001 .",
    "l. urban , `` a model for multiple scattering in geant4 '' , in _ proc .",
    "of the monte carlo method : versatility unbounded in a dynamic computing world _",
    ", on cd - rom , american nuclear society , la grange park , il , 2005 .",
    "r core team , `` r : a language and environment for statistical computing '' r foundation for statistical computing , vienna , austria , isbn 3 - 900051 - 07 - 0 , 2012 .",
    "[ online ] .",
    "available : http://www.r - project.org/.                  a. martin andres , a. silva mato , j. m .",
    "tapia garcia , and m. j. sanchez quevedo , `` comparing the asymptotic power of exact tests in 2  2 tables '' , _ comp .",
    "data anal .",
    "745 - 756 , 2004 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> geant4-based simulations of the energy deposited by electrons in various materials are quantitatively compared to high precision calorimetric measurements taken at sandia laboratories . the experimental data concern electron beams of energy between a few tens of kev and 1 mev at various incidence angles . </S>",
    "<S> two experimental scenarios are evaluated : the longitudinal energy deposition pattern in a finely segmented detector , and the total energy deposited in a larger size calorimeter . </S>",
    "<S> the simulations are produced with geant4 versions from 9.1 to 9.6 ; they involve models of electron - photon interactions in the standard and low energy electromagnetic packages , and various implementations of electron multiple scattering . </S>",
    "<S> significant differences in compatibility with experimental data are observed in the longitudinal energy deposition patterns produced by the examined geant4 versions , while the total deposited energy exhibits smaller variations across the various geant4 versions , with the exception geant4 9.4 . </S>",
    "<S> the validation analysis , based on statistical methods , shows that the best compatibility between simulation and experimental energy deposition profiles is achieved using electromagnetic models based on the eedl and epdl evaluated data libraries with geant4 9.1 . </S>",
    "<S> the results document the accuracy achievable in the simulation of the energy deposited by low energy electrons with geant4 ; they provide guidance for application in similar experimental scenarios and for improving geant4 </S>",
    "<S> .    monte carlo , simulation , geant4 , electrons , dosimetry </S>"
  ]
}