{
  "article_text": [
    "wireless sensor networks ( wsns ) seek the attention of researchers due to their effectiveness in multiple applications .",
    "a particular subclass of wsns known as wbasn consists of multiple sensors attached with the human body to provide us real time feedback like temperature , heartbeat , pulse rate and ecg monitoring . through wbasn",
    "a patient is monitored , and in case of critical situation an immediate action is made possible .",
    "sensors collect data from the body of a patient and send it to physician .",
    "the primary application of wbasn is continuous healthcare monitoring .    in wbasns ,",
    "monitoring of environment is a challenging task due to limited number and sensitive placement of sensors .",
    "misplacement of sensors cause degradation in the quality of captured data .",
    "so , placement of tiny and light powered sensors is an important factor . to prolong the lifetime of sensors , route selection is of key importance",
    "thus , authors in  @xcite ,  @xcite and  @xcite proposed energy efficient routing protocols . a common method for maximizing the sensors lifetime",
    "is minimization of communication between sensors . for energy consumption minimization",
    "@xcite , special attention must be given to enhance the communication system .",
    "fatigue , physical or mental , is a subjective feeling of tiredness .",
    "sometimes , it is correlated with lethargy .",
    "physical fatigue is the inability of muscles to maintain optimal physical performance .",
    "medically , fatigue is considered as a symptom rather than a sign because it is reported by a patient in a subjective manner .",
    "normally , fatigue is caused by loaded work , depression , boredom , mental stress , lack of sleep , etc  @xcite .",
    "different routing protocols have been proposed for various data demands in wbasns .",
    "if sensors sense and gather data constantly and transmit it periodically then this type of communication is called clock driven communication . in event",
    "driven communication , transmission is triggered by a particular event .",
    "query driven communication deals with the transmission occurrence in response to a query .    various techniques are proposed for improving the efficiency of direct communication . in this paper , we present a new routing scheme for measuring the fatigue of a soldier .",
    "our routing protocol takes three scenarios into account : ( 1 ) walking ( 2 ) slow running and ( 3 ) fast running .",
    "we use an event driven approach i.e. transmission is triggered by a particular event .",
    "authors in  @xcite proposed energy - balanced rate assignment and routing protocol ( ebrar ) for body area networks . in ebrar , routes are selected on the basis of residual energy of nodes . moreover , intelligent data transmission and uniform distribution facilitate network lifetime enhancement .    in  @xcite , authors proposed an opportunistic routing scheme for wbasns .",
    "quality of link between nodes in wbasn is effected by the body movement .",
    "therefore , proposed opportunistic routing protocol maximizes the lifetime of sensors during body movements .",
    "n. javaid _",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite proposed a routing protocol for heterogeneous wbasns .",
    "data is transmitted directly for on - demand data and multi - hop communication is used for normal data delivery in the proposed protocol .",
    "authors in  @xcite introduced @xmath0 types of nodes with different energies , i.e. normal , advanced and super nodes .",
    "energy of super nodes is more than normal nodes and advanced nodes .",
    "chs are selected on the basis of their energies .    in q",
    "- leach  @xcite , the network is divided into four quadrants .",
    "each quadrant possesses specific number of nodes , and is further divided into sectors .",
    "each sector selects its own ch and hence load on ch reduces .",
    "heer  @xcite is a cluster based reactive routing protocol which uses residual energy of nodes and average energy of the network for the selection of ch .",
    "furthermore , introduction of hard and soft threshold helps to conserve energy of the sensors .",
    "a. ahmad _ et al .",
    "_ proposed ddr ( density controlled divide - and - rule ) scheme for energy efficient routing in wireless sensor networks )  @xcite . in ddr",
    ", static clustering technique is used .",
    "nodes are distributed uniformly in the network and randomly in the clusters . in ddr",
    ", network is divided into segments .",
    "each segment is designed such that distance between ch and nodes , and between ch and base station is reduced . after every round new ch is selected in each segment with the ability of fixed number of ch in each round .",
    "ch is selected such that its distance from central reference point is minimum . in every segment mutihop communication strategy",
    "is adopted .",
    "authors in  @xcite present a system in which multiple sensors are attached with the body to monitor various body parameters such as , heart activities .",
    "it is a radio based wireless network technology .",
    "authors in [ 14 ] conducted a comprehensive survey on different architectures used in wbasns for ubiquitous healthcare monitoring .",
    "various standards and devices used in these architectures , and finally the influence of path loss in wbans are also provided .    according to our knowledge , existing routing protocols in wbasns",
    "are mainly concerned with energy efficiency of nodes .",
    "thus , we propose a routing protocol to consider specific real time mobility scenarios like walking , slow running and fast running with an additional capability to measure fatigue .",
    "for the improvement of security , we must know the physical status of soldiers .",
    "an important factor in physical status of soldier is fatigue .",
    "if we know the state of fatigue in soldiers then we can send backup to them .",
    "in this proposed protocol , we measure the fatigue of a soldier through wbasn .",
    "sensors collect several body parameters of a soldier , send this data to base station ( bs ) placed on body and bs sends it back to headquarter .",
    "the main problem in wbasns is the limited energy of sensors .",
    "so , an efficient routing protocol is needed for maximizing the lifetime of sensors . in this paper",
    ", we propose a protocol for measuring the fatigue of a soldier and also a routing protocol for maximizing the lifetime of sensors .",
    "we place three sensors on the body of a soldier , each of which has a specific attribute to sense .",
    "sensors that are placed on the body are :    * temperature sensor * blood glucose level sensor * heartbeat sensor * bs      this sensor is placed on the fingertip of soldier to measure the temperature .",
    "the purpose of this sensor is to check glucose level in the blood of soldier .",
    "it is positioned on fingertip . as glucose level",
    "can only be checked by taking blood samples , so we assume that sensor takes the blood samples periodically and checks glucose level in the blood .",
    "this sensor is placed on heart of soldier to measure heartbeat .",
    "[ [ bs ] ] bs ^^    bs is placed on the wrist of soldier .",
    "we assume that bs do not have battery problem and is enriched with energy .",
    "all the above three sensors ( temperature , blood glucose level and heartbeat ) send data to bs .",
    "1 shows the placement of nodes on soldier .    [ !",
    "ht ]       following are the scenarios for measuring the fatigue of soldier :    * soldier is walking * soldier is running slowly * soldier is running very fast      when soldier is walking , temperature of the body increases slowly .",
    "we assume that initially body temperature of soldier is normal .",
    "when soldier starts to walk , temperature sensor starts to sense the body temperature .",
    "initially , transmitter of sensor does not transmit data to bs because the body temperature of soldier is slowly increasing and is not in danger .",
    "sensor remains in sleep mode for a specific period of time .",
    "whenever body temperature crosses threshold limit , transmitter sends data to bs .",
    "heartbeat sensor checks the heart rate of soldier . at the beginning ,",
    "heartbeat of soldier is normal .",
    "when soldier starts to walk , heartbeat slowly increases .",
    "sensor remains in sleep mode for normal heartbeat .",
    "heartbeat sensor is triggered whenever palpitations cross a predefined threshold level .",
    "blood glucose level sensor measures glucose level in the blood of soldier .",
    "blood glucose level of a person decreases while walking .",
    "we assume that sensor takes blood samples periodically and compare the sensed value with threshold that is predefined .",
    "if the sensed value decreases from the threshold then sensor sends data to bs which is an alarm that glucose level in blood of soldier is less .    during walk , temperature and heartbeat of soldier increases and",
    "glucose level in blood decreases with time .",
    "this means that energy of soldier is being consumed .",
    "sensors sense the values and send it to the bs that is placed on wrist of the soldier .",
    "bs checks received data and also the current energy of soldier . if state of fatigue is achieved then bs sends data to head quarter . for fatigue state",
    "we use harris benedict formula .",
    "i.e. @xmath1 @xmath2 @xmath3 @xmath4    basal metabolic rate ( bmr ) is the amount of energy required to maintain normal metabolic rate of the body .",
    "this is the energy required for the functioning of vital body parts like heart , lungs , kidneys , liver , nervous system and skin .",
    "we take this amount of energy as minimum energy of soldier and if a soldier s condition meets this level then this is called as ` state of fatigue ' .      if soldier is running slowly then sensors sense heartbeat , temperature and glucose level in blood .",
    "however , in this scenario the heartbeat , temperature and glucose level reach the threshold earlier than walking .      in this scenario soldier",
    "is running at very high speed .",
    "so , in this case the fatigue state comes earlier than walking and slow running .",
    "here we discuss how much energy of sensors is consumed during transmission . in this paper , we use the energy consumption model used in  @xcite , and is summarized in the following equations .",
    "@xmath5    @xmath6    where , @xmath7 is the transmission energy , reception energy @xmath8 , @xmath9 denotes the energy dissipated by radio to run the circuitry for the transmitter , @xmath10 represents the energy dissipated by radio to run the circuitry of the receiver , @xmath11 is the energy for transmit amplifier , @xmath12 is the path loss exponent .",
    "its value is @xmath13 for line of sight communication and for non line of sight communication its value is @xmath14 .",
    "@xmath15 shows the number of transmitted bits .",
    "heartbeat sensor transmits @xmath16 bits , while blood glucose level sensor and temperature sensor transmit @xmath17 bits data  @xcite .",
    ".radio model parameters [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "energy saving of sensor node is a challenging task for researchers nowadays . in this paper",
    ", we proposed an event driven routing protocol for wbasns .",
    "specifically , three senors are attached with soldier s body to monitor his / her heartbeat , body temperature and glucose level in blood .",
    "an additional measure is fatigue of the soldier .",
    "our proposed protocol takes three scenarios for measuring the fatigue of soldier i.e. ( 1 ) walking , ( 2 ) slow running and ( 3 ) fast running .",
    "results show that our protocol performs better in terms of network lifetime and throughput .    as a part of our ongoing research",
    ", we are working on implementing our proposed protocol for more than one soldier . in future",
    ", we are interested to work on mac layer energy efficient protocol like  @xcite ,  @xcite ,  @xcite ,  @xcite ,  @xcite , etc .    1 aslam , m. , nadeem javaid , a. rahim , u. nazir , ayesha bibi , and z. a. khan .",
    "`` survey of extended leach - based clustering routing protocols for wireless sensor networks . '' in high performance computing and communication & 2012 ieee 9th international conference on embedded software and systems ( hpcc - icess ) , 2012 ieee 14th international conference on , pp . 1232 - 1238 .",
    "ieee , 2012 ..    qureshi , t.n . ; javaid , n. ; malik , m. ; qasim , u. ; khan , z.a . ,",
    "`` on performance evaluation of variants of deec in wsns , '' broadband , wireless computing , communication and applications ( bwcca ) , 2012 seventh international conference on , vol .",
    ", no . , pp.162,169 , 12 - 14 nov . 2012 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/bwcca.2012.35 .",
    "n. javaid , t. n. qureshi , a. h. khan , a. iqbal , e. akhtar and m. ishfaq , `` eddeec : enhanced developed distributed energy - efficient clustering for heterogeneous wireless sensor networks '' , international workshop on body area sensor networks ( basnet-2013 ) in conjunction with 4th international conference on ambient systems , networks and technologies ( ant 2013 ) , 2013 , halifax , nova scotia , canada .",
    "t. shah , n. javaid , t. n. qureshi , `` energy efficient sleep awake aware ( eesaa ) intelligent sensor network routing protocol '' , 15th ieee international multi topic conference ( inmic12 ) , 2012 , pakistan .",
    "n. ababneh , n. timmons , j. morrison , and d. tracey , `` energy - balanced rate assignment and routing protocol for body area networks '' , in advanced information networking and applications workshops ( waina ) , 2012 26th international conference on .",
    "ieee , 2012 , pp .",
    "466471 .",
    "n. javaid , z. abbas , m. s. farid , z. a. khan and n. alrajeh , `` m - attempt : a new energy - efficient routing protocol for wireless body area sensor networks '' , the 4th international conference on ambient systems , networks and technologies ( ant 2013 ) , 2013 , halifax , nova scotia , canada , procedia computer science , volume 19 , 2013 .",
    "m. y. khan , n. javaid , m. a. khan , a. javaid , z. a. khan , u. qasim , `` hybrid deec : towards efficient energy utilization in wireless sensor networks '' , world applied sciences journal 22 ( 1 ) : 126 - 132 , 2013 .",
    "b. manzoor , n. javaid , o. rehman , m. akbar , q. nadeem , a. iqbal , m. ishfaq , `` q - leach : a new routing protocol for wsns '' , international workshop on body area sensor networks ( basnet-2013 ) in conjunction with 4th international conference on ambient systems , networks and technologies ( ant 2013 ) , 2013 , halifax , nova scotia , canada , procedia computer science , volume 19 , 2013 , pages 926 - 931 .",
    "n. javaid , s. n. mohammad , k. latif , u. qasim and z. a. khan , m. a. khan , `` heer : hybrid energy efficient reactive protocol for wireless sensor networks '' , 2nd ieee saudi international electronics , communications and photonics conference ( siecpc 13 ) , 2013 , riyadh , saudi arabia .",
    "a. ahmad , k. latif , n. javaid , z. a. khan and u. qasim , `` density controlled divide - and - rule scheme for energy efficient routing in wireless sensor networks '' , 26th ieee canadian conference on electrical and computer engineering ( ccece2013 ) , regina , saskatchewan , canada , 2013 .",
    "k. p. wagh and s. o. rajankar , `` article : wireless body area network : real - time health monitoring system '' , ijca proceedings on national conference on advancement in electronics and telecommunication en- gineering , vol .",
    "ncaete , no .",
    "1 , pp . 711 , may 2012 .",
    "n. a. khan , n. javaid , z. a. khan , m. jaffar , u. rafiq , a. bibi , `` ubiquitous healthcare in wireless body area networks '' , 2012 ieee 11th international conference on trust , security and privacy in computing and communications ( trustcom ) , liverpool , uk , pp .",
    "1960 - 1967 , 2012 .",
    "s. hayat , n. javaid , z. a. khan , a. shareef , a. mahmood , s. h. bouk ,  energy efficient mac protocols in wireless body area sensor networks  , 5th international symposium on advances of high performance computing and networking ( ahpcn-2012)in conjunction with 14th ieee international conference on high performance computing and communications ( hpcc-2012 ) , 25 - 27 june , liverpool , uk , 2012 .    a. rahim , n. javaid , m. aslam , u. qasim , z. a. khan , `` adaptive - reliable medium access control protocol for wireless body area networks '' , poster session of 9th annual ieee communications society conference on sensor , mesh and ad hoc communications and networks ( secon2012 ) , seoul , korea , 2012 .",
    "a. n. alvi , s. s. naqvi , s. h. bouk , n. javaid , u. qasim , z. a. khan , `` evaluation of slotted csma / ca of ieee 802.15.4 '' , broadband , wireless computing , communication and applications ( bwcca ) , 2012 seventh international conference on , vol .",
    ", no . , pp.391,396 , 12 - 14 nov . 2012 .",
    "dridi , khaled , nadeem javaid , boubaker daachi , and karim djouani .",
    "`` ieee 802.11 e - edcf evaluation through mac - layer metrics over qos - aware mobility constraints . '' in proceedings of the 7th international conference on advances in mobile computing and multimedia , pp .",
    "211 - 217 .",
    "acm , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> wireless body area sensor networks </S>",
    "<S> ( wbasns ) consist of on - body or in - body sensors placed on human body for health monitoring . energy conservation of these sensors , while guaranteeing a required level of performance , is a challenging task . </S>",
    "<S> energy efficient routing schemes are designed for the longevity of network lifetime . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we propose a routing protocol for measuring fatigue of a soldier . </S>",
    "<S> three sensors are attached to soldier s body that monitor specific parameters . </S>",
    "<S> our proposed protocol is an event driven protocol and takes three scenarios for measuring the fatigue of a soldier . </S>",
    "<S> we evaluate our proposed work in terms of network lifetime , throughput , remaining energy of sensors and fatigue of a soldier . </S>"
  ]
}