{
  "article_text": [
    "field of computer science is constantly emerging with an aim to process larger data sets and maintain higher levels of connectivity . at the same time , advancements in miniaturization allow for increased mobility and ease of access . wireless sensor network ( wsn )",
    "is emerging as a promising technology for a wide variety of applications in the fields of remote health monitoring , home / health care , medicine , multimedia , sports and many others as shown in fig .",
    "1 . all these can be converged in one of the sub - classes of wsn , named as wbasn .",
    "wbasn consist of tiny and lightweight sensors which , have limited energy and processing resources .",
    "these sensors can either be in - vivo sensors i.e. implanted inside the body or can be wearable sensors [ 1 ] attached on the body , depending upon the application requirements .    in the field of sports ,",
    "wbasn can be deployed by using a heart rate measuring sensor placed on players body to replace him / her when , the rate reaches a critical level while playing , in order to avoid the bad performance of a particular team . in aerospace , wbasn can be beneficial where , a flying system can extract the information from multiple sensors , warn the pilot in case of emergencies , and provide feedback during supervised recovery or normal activity @xcite .    in the medical field , wbasn makes use of the tiny sensors for detecting and monitoring different biological characteristics of a human body .",
    "both the aspects of connectivity as well as miniaturization are covered in wbasn . in terms of patient monitoring",
    ", a patient at home or in hospital can be equipped with different physical parameters measuring sensors .",
    "the monitored signals are then collected or aggregated by a personal device , e.g. personal digital assistant ( pda ) which , acts as a relay node and transmits them to health - care professional for health monitoring or to some external network acting as a sink",
    ". the sink node acts as a bridge between the hospital s ( wired ) network , and the ban .",
    "the advantage of this entire topology is that the patient is not required to make frequent visits to the hospital , thereby , reducing transportation costs and fear of any miss checkup visits which , might be occurring due to busy life routines and schedules . and also , when in hospital , no need for a patient to stay continuously on bed or can move freely .",
    "this whole process , provides real - time feedback and sometimes faster diagnosis and enables the patient to receive immediate medication or medical assistant .    in this paper ,",
    "a relaying protocol named , dare to monitor patients in multi - hop basns is proposed . in dare , different hospital ward scenarios are undertaken .",
    "the ward consists of eight patients arranged on beds , properly aligned and equipped with seven different sensors monitoring vital signs and one body relay each .",
    "out of these seven sensors , two of the sensors monitor the patient only , when there reaches a threshold level .",
    "thus , the protocol also supports the monitoring of multiple data types . in each scenario , the placement of sensors is kept fixed while , the sink node is either made mobile or static . to verify the accuracy of the protocol , it is also compared with another ban protocol called m - attempt .",
    "simulations are carried out in matlab . the comparison results exhibit improvements in the proposed protocol in terms of reduced energy consumption by the biomedical sensor nodes as well as an elongated network lifetime .    the remainder of the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section ii gives an overview on the previous research works on basn communications . in section iii , motivation for proposing new protocol",
    "is mentioned .",
    "proposed technique is explained in section iv .",
    "section v compares the plots between the proposed and the compared protocol .",
    "finally , section vi concludes the paper .",
    "in terms of network organization , routing protocols can be classified into three categories as flat - based protocols , hierarchical - based and location - based protocols . restricting the discussion only to first two categories ,",
    "flat - based protocols comprise of the nodes that are homogeneous in terms of their energy resources and sensing capabilities . while , hierarchical - based protocols incorporate sensors that have different responsibilities . some of the sensors are superior in terms of energy and thus ,",
    "are overloaded in relative to others .",
    "these nodes act as relay nodes which , transmit and aggregate the received data from energy - constrained nodes and ultimately send it to a destination node or sink .    similarly , the routing protocols can also be categorized into single - hop or multi - hop communication protocols . in wsn , single - hop communication may be required in the cases where , central management is considered important . however , in ban , it provides poor results as , the energy - constrained sensor nodes are over - burdened due to self transmitting data to a far - distant sink node which , exhaust the sensors earlier . in comparison to single - hop , multi - hop communication is considered favorable and applicable for bans to protect the human body by excessive heat radiations , dissipated from the batteries of the sensor nodes . in multi - hop networks , in - vivo or on - body sensors transmit information to the nearby located relay node(s ) which , then transmits data to external network for monitoring purpose . hence , reduces the distance travelled by the data and also saves energy consumption of the sensor node",
    "there are different parameters e.g. network lifetime , energy consumption , propagation delay , network throughput , supporting multiple data types etc .",
    "upon which , wide researches are conducted to stabilize the ban network .",
    "very few works appear in the literature with the purpose of increasing network lifetime and improving energy efficiency of wbasn , using additional devices called relay nodes . by means of multi - hop communication , some of the parameters",
    "are achieved with good precision .    in @xcite",
    ", e. reusens @xmath0 @xmath1 focus on increasing network lifetime by means of relaying and cooperation .",
    "first , the relay nodes perform relaying of traffic only so that , high amount of energy is available for communication purposes . next",
    ", the relays cooperate in forwarding the data from one node towards the central device .",
    "in @xcite , a. ehyaie @xmath0 @xmath1 set an upper bound to determine the number of relay nodes , sensors and their respective distances to the sink .",
    "a relay network is defined as a network of relay nodes distributed along the body in combination with sensor nodes to serve as a transport network for the bsn sensor nodes .",
    "hence , no sensor node needs to relay other sensor s traffic , any more .",
    "each sensor node does single - hop communication while , relay nodes are responsible for multi - hop communication to the sink .    in @xcite",
    ", jocelyne elias @xmath0 @xmath1 propose an optimal design for wbans , by studying the joint data routing and relay positioning problem in order to increase the network lifetime .    in @xcite , authors study propagation models for improving the energy efficiency . using these models ,",
    "calculations show that single - hop communication is inefficient , especially for the nodes far away from sink , however , multi - hop proves to be more efficient . in order to avoid hotspot links , extra nodes in the network , i.e. dedicated relay devices are introduced .",
    "the experimental results show that , these solutions significantly increase the network lifetime .",
    "authors in @xcite , derive analytical channel modeling and propagation characteristics of arm motion as spherical model .",
    "four possible cases are presented where , transmitter and receiver lies inside or outside of the body .    in @xcite , baozhi chen @xmath0 @xmath1 introduce a new interference - aware wban , that can continuously monitor vital signs of multiple patients and efficiently prioritize data transmission based on patients condition .    in @xcite ,",
    "su - ho @xmath0 @xmath1 suggest a heuristic adaptive routing algorithm for an energy - efficient configuration management which , can reduce energy consumption while , guaranteeing qos for the emergency data in wbasns .",
    "the priority and vicinity of the nodes are taken into account , for the selection of reachable parent nodes when , the nodes are disconnected due to the mobile nature of human body .    in @xcite , thomas watteyne @xmath0 @xmath1 propose a protocol named anybody which , is a self - organization protocol comprising of sensor nodes , grouped into clusters .",
    "it focuses on relaying data via cluster heads to improve the routing and energy efficiency .    in @xcite ,",
    "a novel clustering based routing technique for heterogeneous networks is proposed .",
    "it is based on changing the cluster head ( ch ) dynamically , according to some election probability .",
    "simulation results show that , this proposed protocol achieves longer lifetime and stability period .    in @xcite ,",
    "chris a. otto @xmath0 @xmath1 describe a prototype system for continual health monitoring at home .",
    "the system consists of an uninterrupted wbasn and a home health server .",
    "the wbasn sensors monitor user s heart rate and locomotive activity and periodically , upload time - stamped information to the home server .",
    "the home server may integrate this information into a local database for user s inspection or it may further forward the information to a medical server .    in @xcite and @xcite , path loss in wbasn and its impact on communication",
    "is presented with the help of simulations which , were performed for different models of in - body communication and different factors ( such as , attenuation , frequency , distance etc ) , influencing path loss in on - body communications .    in @xcite ,",
    "changhong wang @xmath0 @xmath1 propose a distributed wbasn for medical supervision .",
    "the system contains three layers : sensor network tier , mobile computing network tier and remote monitoring network tier .",
    "it provides collection , demonstration and storage of the vital information such as , ecg , blood oxygen , body temperature and respiration rate .",
    "the system demonstrates many advantages such as , low - power , easy configuration , convenient carrying , and real - time reliable data .    in @xcite , a.a .",
    "abbasi @xmath0 @xmath1 suggest a scheme in which , nodes are grouped in a number of clusters .",
    "there is a special node within each cluster named as cluster head which , is responsible for collecting the data of other nodes in a cluster , pack them together and sent them to sink .",
    "therefore , energy usage in cluster heads are much more than the other nodes to maximize the lifetime of information carrying sensors .    in @xcite , transmission delay of different paths",
    "through which , data is sent from sensor to health care center over heterogeneous multi - hop wireless channel is analyzed .    in @xcite ,",
    "n. javaid @xmath0 @xmath1 present an energy efficient routing algorithm for heterogeneous wbasns . for on - demand data traffic ,",
    "root node directly communicates with sink node and for normal data delivery , multi - hop communication is used .",
    "the proposed routing algorithm is thermal - aware which , senses the link hot - spot and routes the data away from these links .",
    "the protocol focuses on reducing energy consumption and to maximize the number of packets , sent to network .",
    "the performance of indoor localization schemes for optimal placement of wireless sensors in an area where , location tracking is required , is verified in @xcite . in this paper , the performance of particle filtering and kalman filtering based location tracking techniques using bays algorithm and hiden markov model ( hmm ) in terms of localization accuracy is presented .",
    "basns are gradually making advancements in the monitoring of humans in different fields like , players and athletes in a playing ground , astronauts in space , patients in the hospital or home and many others . in monitoring patients",
    ", basn enables the medical personnel to provide an urgent medical aid in case of getting any threat or alarm .",
    "the sensors used in basn consist of restricted energy resources .",
    "as , the sensors gather information about body organs and transmit the data ahead , much of the energy gets utilized due to which , excess heat is dissipated . as a result ,",
    "the human body tissues get severely damaged . keeping this issue in mind ,",
    "many researches are conducted and still underway to reduce the energy consumption of the sensors and to enhance the lifetime of network so that , the patient need not to be operated very often to re - energize the depleted sensors .    in @xcite , the simulation results show that it s processing creates very little propagation delay which is beneficial for the cases where , delays can not be tolerated .",
    "however , the nodes exhaust earlier in terms of rounds and also consume surplus energy .    to reduce energy utilization , enhance network lifetime and to improve the quality of living , this study presents a protocol , dare . to verify the accuracy of the protocol , with respect to different network parameters it is compared with with a ban protocol of m - attempt .",
    "the proposed scheme is described in detail in below subsections .",
    "the dare protocol is based on inspecting a hospital ward with dimensions of `` '' , under five different scenarios in which , the patient s different body organs are monitored to detect any ambiguity in it s normal functioning .",
    "the ward consists of eight beds where , each patient comprises of seven body sensors ( bss ) placed on different positions and one body relay ( br ) , on the chest .",
    "the topology is kept same throughout the entire ward .",
    "this makes a total of fifty six bss and eight brs .",
    "both body sensors and body relays have limited energy resources .",
    "the protocol assigns an energy of `` '' to the bss and `` '' to the br .",
    "a node of main sensor ( ms ) is also attached on bed in one of the scenarios to reduce the energy consumption .",
    "the ms is assumed to have either unlimited or at least very high energy resources as compared to other sensor types .",
    "the sink is considered to have unlimited energy resources which then , ultimately transmits the final form of information to the external network .",
    "the proposed protocol s patient is shown in fig .",
    "2 .        the combination of body sensors and body relay makes this scheme a heterogeneous technique and let the information to travel in a multi - hop manner .",
    "the protocol assumes line of sight communication ( los ) between the sending and receiving nodes .",
    "the los co - efficient value is set to be 3.38 as , shown in table i.    .parameters of energy model [ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "in this paper , a relaying energy - efficient protocol for heterogeneous networks for monitoring patients is proposed .",
    "some of the sensors monitor data continuously while , others monitor only when a certain threshold level is reached .",
    "the protocol defines minimum energy parameters for the sensors to avoid damage to the body tissues .",
    "the results clearly show that , the network lifetime and the stability period in terms of more nodes to stay alive ( for additional number of rounds ) and in terms of reduced energy consumption , our proposed protocol is better than the compared protocol , m - attempt . the percentage of the number of nodes staying alive , increases from @xmath2@xmath3 ( m - attempt ) to about @xmath4@xmath3 ( dare ) .",
    "also , the proposed protocol provides better throughput in relative to the compared protocol .",
    "so , dare protocol shows great potential in the cases where , human intervention is required to be avoided and also where , huge data transmissions are required .",
    "however , m - attempt provides reduced delay in transmitting packets to the network towards the destination which , makes it a feasible protocol for the networks where there is no room for huge delay .",
    "future work focuses on estimating the delay in propagating data from body sensors to the destination node in dare protocol and also to investigate mobility in patients body .",
    "authors in [ 20 - 23 ] , work on routing metrics based on etx ( expected transmission count ) which , shows better performance than minimum hop count metric , under the availability of link . in view of this , the plan focus to work on routing link metrics as well .",
    "20 rehman . a , mustafa .",
    "m , javaid .",
    "n , qasim . u , khan .",
    "z. a. analytical survey of wearable sensors .",
    "international workshop on bio - sensing , processing , application and networking ( biospan-2012 ) in con- junction with 7th ieee international conference on broadband and wireless computing , communication and applications ( bwcca 2012 ) , victoria , canada , 2012 .",
    "reusens , elisabeth , et al . characterization of on - body communication channel and energy efficient topology design for wireless body area networks",
    ". information technology in biomedicine , ieee transactions on 13.6 ( 2009 ) : 933 - 945 .",
    "ehyaie , a. , hashemi , m. and khadivi , p. using relay network to increase life time in wireless body area sensor networks . in world of wireless , mobile and multimedia networks and workshops , 2009 .",
    "wowmom 2009 .",
    "ieee international symposium on a ( pp",
    ". 1 - 6 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "braem , b. , latre , b. , moerman , i. , blondia , c. , reusens , e. , joseph , w. , and demeester , p. the need for cooperation and relaying in short - range high path loss sensor networks . in sensor technologies and applications , 2007 .",
    "sensorcomm 2007 .",
    "international conference on ( pp .",
    "566 - 571 ) .",
    "ain , q and ikram , a and javaid , n and qasim , u and khan , za .",
    "modeling propagation characteristics for arm - motion in wireless body area sensor networks .",
    "7th international conference on broadband and wireless computing , communication and applications ( bwcca-2012 ) , pp .",
    "656 - 660 .",
    "ieee , 2012 .",
    "chen , b. , varkey , j. p. , pompili , d. , li , j. j. and marsic , i. patient vital signs monitoring using wireless body area networks . in bioengineering conference , proceedings of the 2010 ieee 36th annual northeast ( pp",
    ". 1 - 2 ) . ieee .    seo , s. h. , gopalan , s. a. , chun , s. m. , seok , k. j. , nah , j. w. and park , j. t. an energy - efficient configuration management for multi - hop wireless body area networks . in broadband network and multimedia technology ( ic - bnmt ) , 2010 3rd ieee international conference on ( pp .",
    "1235 - 1239 ) .",
    "watteyne , t. , aug - blum , i. , dohler , m. and barthel , d. anybody : a self - organization protocol for body area networks",
    ". proceedings of the icst 2nd international conference on body area networks ( p. 6 ) .",
    "icst ( institute for computer sciences , social - informatics and telecommunications engineering ) , 2007 .",
    "javaid , n and qureshi , t , n and khan , ah and iqbal , a and akhtar , e and ishfaq , m. eddeec : enhanced developed distributed energy - efficient clustering for heterogeneous wireless sensor networks .",
    "international workshop on body area sensor networks ( basnet-2013 ) in conjunction with 4th international conference on ambient systems , networks and technologies ( ant 2013 ) , 2013 , halifax , nova scotia , canada .",
    "s , javaid .",
    "z. a , shareef .",
    "a , mahmood .",
    "s. h. energy efficient mac protocols in wireless body area sensor networks .",
    "5th international symposium on advances of high performance computing and networking ( ahpcn-2012)in conjunction with 14th ieee international conference on high performance computing and communications ( hpcc-2012 ) , 25 - 27 june , liverpool , uk , 2012 .",
    "wang , c. , wang , q. and shi , s. a distributed wireless body area network for medical supervision . in instrumentation and measurement technology conference ( i2mtc ) , 2012 ieee international ( pp .",
    "2612 - 2616 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "n. javaid , m. yaqoob , m. y. khan , m. a. khan , a. javaid , z. a. khan .",
    "analyzing delay in wireless multi - hop heterogeneous body area networks .",
    "research journal of applied sciences , engineering and technology , 2013 .",
    "javaid , n. , abbas , z. , fareed , m. s. , khan , z. a. , and alrajeh , n. m - attempt : a new energy - efficient routing protocol for wireless body area sensor networks .",
    "4th international conference on ambient systems , networks and technologies ( ant 2013 ) , 2013 , halifax , nova scotia , canada .",
    "o.rehman , b. manzoor , r. d. khan , m. ilahi , z. a. khan , u. qasim , n. javaid . a survey on indoor localization techniques in wireless body area sensor networks .",
    "res . , 3(6)14 - 23 , 2013 .",
    "n , javaid .",
    "i. a , djouani .",
    "k. performance study of etx based wireless rout- ing metrics .",
    "2nd ieee international conference on computer , control and communications ( ic4 - 2009 ) , karachi , pakistan , pp.1 - 7 , 2009 .",
    "jjavaid , n. ; bibi , a. ; djouani , k. , `` interference and bandwidth adjusted etx in wireless multi - hop networks , '' globecom workshops ( gc wkshps ) , 2010 ieee , vol .",
    ", no . , pp.1638,1643 , 6 - 10 dec . 2010 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/glocomw.2010.5700217 .",
    "jjavaid , n. ; ullah , m. ; djouani , k. , `` identifying design requirements for wireless routing link metrics , '' global telecommunications conference ( globecom 2011 ) , 2011 ieee , vol .",
    ", no . , pp.1,5 , 5 - 9 dec",
    "doi : 10.1109/glocom.2011.6134360 .",
    "jjavaid , n. ; bibi , a. ; khan , z. a. ; djouani , k. , `` on using multiple quality link metrics with destination sequenced distance vector protocol for wireless multi - hop networks , '' electrical & computer engineering ( ccece ) , 2012 25th ieee canadian conference on , vol .",
    ", no . , pp.1,4 , april 29 2012-may 2 2012 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in recent years , interests in the applications of wireless body area sensor network ( wbasn ) is noticeably developed . </S>",
    "<S> wbasn is playing a significant role to get the real time and precise data with reduced level of energy consumption . </S>",
    "<S> it comprises of tiny , lightweight and energy restricted sensors , placed in / on the human body , to monitor any ambiguity in body organs and measure various biomedical parameters . in this study </S>",
    "<S> , a protocol named distance aware relaying energy - efficient ( dare ) to monitor patients in multi - hop body area sensor networks ( basns ) is proposed . </S>",
    "<S> the protocol operates by investigating the ward of a hospital comprising of eight patients , under different topologies by positioning the sink at different locations or making it static or mobile . </S>",
    "<S> seven sensors are attached to each patient , measuring different parameters of electrocardiogram ( ecg ) , pulse rate , heart rate , temperature level , glucose level , toxins level and motion . to reduce the energy consumption , </S>",
    "<S> these sensors communicate with the sink via an on - body relay , affixed on the chest of each patient . </S>",
    "<S> the body relay possesses higher energy resources as compared to the body sensors as , they perform aggregation and relaying of data to the sink node . </S>",
    "<S> a comparison is also conducted conducted with another protocol of ban named , mobility - supporting adaptive threshold - based thermal - aware energy - efficient multi - hop protocol ( m - attempt ) . </S>",
    "<S> the simulation results show that , the proposed protocol achieves increased network lifetime and efficiently reduces the energy consumption , in relative to m - attempt protocol .    </S>",
    "<S> wbasn , patients , parameters , network lifetime , energy consumption . </S>"
  ]
}