{
  "article_text": [
    "it is widely accepted that millisecond pulsars ( msps ) are produced via the recycling scenario @xcite . in this scenario ,",
    "the msps are formed from the evolution of low - mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) and intermediate - mass x - ray binaries in which a neutron star ( ns ) accretes material and angular momentum from its companion star and thereby is spun up to become an msp . during this process , the magnetic field of the ns decreases to @xmath1 .",
    "the exact mechanism for this accretion - induced magnetic field decay is still unknown ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in most of the cases , a binary system with an msp and a helium white dwarf",
    "is left behind when the lmxb mass transfer ends .",
    "it was therefore a bit of a surprise when the first black  widow system was discovered , revealing that the msps in these black  widow systems have very low - mass ( @xmath2 ) companions @xcite . since the pulsars in these systems suffer from eclipses of their radio signals , it was immediately clear that the companions are semi- or non - degenerate stars which suffer from irradiation - driven mass loss @xcite .",
    "@xcite proposed that these eclipsing msp systems are produced in globular clusters and subsequently ejected into the galactic field . in their scenario ,",
    "the formation of eclipsing binary pulsars should go through two phases : in the first phase , a binary system consisting of an msp and a helium white dwarf is formed via the evolution of an lmxb in a globular cluster ; in the second phase , the helium white dwarf is replaced by a main sequence star , via an exchange encounter event , leading to ablation and matter expelled from the system caused by strong irradiation of the new companion by the energetic msp . as regard to the low number of eclipsing binary msps known in the galactic field at that time , they suggested that eclipsing binary pulsars are mainly generated in the globular clusters and subsequently ejected into the galactic field or the systems entered the field population in case the cluster itself was disrupted .",
    "however , in the last few years a rapidly increasing number of msps have been found in the galactic field .",
    "most of these discoveries are binary eclipsing msps in tight orbits ( @xmath3 ) , the so - called spiders @xcite . a large fraction of these new msps",
    "are associated with _",
    "@xmath4-ray sources ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "as @xcite suggested , the population of eclipsing binary msps can be divided into two different classes : black  widows and redbacks .",
    "the black  widows have very low - mass companions ( @xmath5 ) , while the redbacks have companion masses of a few tenths of a solar mass ( @xmath6 ) . in view of the many recent discoveries",
    ", it seems that the model suggested by king  et  al .",
    "may have difficulties in explaining the large number of such binary systems in the galactic field .",
    "detailed stellar evolution modelling has previously demonstrated that black  widows form as the outcome of converging lmxb evolution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this paper , we perform binary evolution calculations to study the formation of both redbacks and black  widows , and also investigate whether or not redback systems can evolve into black  widow systems .",
    "we apply a simple geometric argument ( beaming ) for the evaporation efficiency of companion stars and demonstrate that it can explain the strongly bimodal distribution of the observed systems quite well .",
    "the outline of the paper is as follows : in section 2 , we introduce the details of our formation scenario . in section 3 , we compute the evolution of binary systems in the framework of this scenario . a discussion and a brief summary are given in section 4 .",
    "several ingredients must be considered for the formation of an eclipsing msp system : the ns must be able to spin  up to a millisecond period and the pulsar must turn on as a radio msp ; the companion star should be ablated in order to produce orbital eclipses , and the orbital period and the companion star mass must match the observed values .",
    "we find that these ingredients can be satisfied by the evolution of cv - like lmxbs .",
    "similar to the evolution of cvs , the companion star becomes fully convective when its mass decreases to @xmath7 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "as a result , we assume that the magnetic braking stops operating and hence the mass transfer is temporarily halted @xcite . at this time , the ns has accreted about @xmath8 ( assuming that the mass accumulation efficiency is 0.5 and the typical initial donor mass is @xmath9 ) , which is more than enough to spin up the ns to become an msp @xcite .",
    "when the ns turns on as a radio msp ( once the expanding magnetospheric boundary crosses the light - cylinder radius during termination of the mass transfer ) it begins to evaporate its companion star @xcite by its pulsar wind of tev ( @xmath10 ) particles  either directly or indirectly via secondary synchrotron mev @xmath4-rays produced near the companion star .",
    "even if the companion star refills its roche  lobe , as a result of adiabatic expansion due to mass loss by evaporation , the radio ejection mechanism @xcite will prevent accretion onto the msp and expel the mass transferred from the companion star .",
    "this mass loss , if strong enough , may account for the orbital eclipse of the radio signal by free - free absorption .    in order to test this formation scenario ,",
    "we have carried out detailed binary evolution calculations with a newly developed henyey evolutionary code , modules for experiments in stellar astrophysics ( `` mesa '' , see @xcite for details ) . in the binary evolution calculations",
    ", we included orbital angular momentum loss due to mass loss , gravitational wave radiation and magnetic braking .",
    "previous studies indicated that a circumbinary ( cb ) disk can effectively extract angular momentum @xcite and greatly affect the evolution of the binary system @xcite .",
    "hence , we added this possibility and also included the effect of irradiation - induced mass loss from the companion star ( as explained below ) .",
    "more specifically , we assumed that the accretion efficiency of the ns is 0.5 and the mass lost from the system takes the specific angular momentum of the ns before the radio emission turns on @xcite .",
    "after the radio emission turns on , no mass will be accreted by the ns because of the dominating pulsar radiation pressure , causing the transferred material to be expelled from the neighbourhood of the inner lagrangian point ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "regarding the angular momentum loss due to gravitational wave radiation , we adopt the formula given by @xcite : @xmath11 where @xmath12 and @xmath13 denoted the ns and the companion star mass , @xmath14 is the semi - major axis of the ( circular ) orbit , @xmath15 is the speed of light in vacuum and @xmath16 is the gravitational constant .    to compute the angular momentum loss due to magnetic braking",
    ", we adopt the prescription of @xcite [ eq .",
    "( 36 ) with @xmath17 : @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the radius of the donor star and @xmath20 is equal to the orbital angular velocity of the binary system .    during the evolution , we assume that a small part of mass lost from the companion is injected into a cb disk .",
    "the rate of cb disk mass injection is @xmath21 . assuming that the disk follows keplerian rotation",
    ", the angular velocity of the disk is less than that of the binary system .",
    "hence the cb disk will exert tidal torques on the binary and extract angular momentum from the system . to calculate the angular momentum loss due to a cb disk",
    ", we adopt the prescription proposed by @xcite [ see also eq .",
    "( 28 ) in @xcite ] : @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the time since mass transfer begins , @xmath24 , @xmath25 and where @xmath26 is the inner radius of the disk , @xmath27 is the viscosity parameter , @xmath28 and @xmath29 is the scaleheight of the disc @xcite . in the following calculation , we set @xmath30 @xcite , @xmath31 , @xmath32 @xcite and @xmath33 .",
    "for the evaporation wind driven by the pulsar irradiation , a simple prescription was proposed by @xcite : @xmath34 where the pulsar s spin - down luminosity is given by : @xmath35 ( @xmath36 is the pulsar moment of inertia , @xmath37 is the spin period of the ns , and @xmath38 is its spin down rate ) , @xmath39 is the escape velocity of a thermal wind from the surface of the companion star , and @xmath40 , whose value is not well determined , is an efficiency factor .",
    "however , the implicit assumption of an isotropic energy flux leaving the pulsar is not valid if the outflow of the relativistic pulsar ( @xmath10 ) wind follows the geometry of the magnetosphere ( and if this wind constitutes a significant part of the spin - down torque acting on the pulsar compared to the magnetodipole radiation which is approximately emitted without much directivity ) .",
    "thus we propose that there is a beaming effect which depends on the orientation of the pulsar b - field axis with respect to the direction of the companion star .",
    "this leads to a variety of evaporation efficiencies in systems which may otherwise have similar characteristics with respect to @xmath41 and @xmath38 . to simplify the description ,",
    "we can still adopt eq.([eq : srp ] ) under the assumption that @xmath40 is now a ( free ) parameter which takes _ different _ values for different binaries and which depends on the geometry of the system ",
    "i.e. a `` beaming efficiency parameter '' which may in principle reach a value above unity in the working frame of eq.([eq : srp ] ) .",
    "+ as we shall demonstrate , the value of @xmath40 is rather important for the outcome of our calculations .",
    "for a recent discussion of the fraction of the incident spin - down luminosity being used for reprocessing to increase the dayside temperature of companion stars in eclipsing msps , see @xcite .    to calculate @xmath42 we assumed for all evolutionary tracks an initial spin period , @xmath43 and an initial period derivative , @xmath44 ( corresponding roughly to a surface magnetic filed strength of @xmath45 ) at the epoch of radio msp turn - on .",
    "@xmath42 was then calculated as a function of time by assuming evolution with a constant braking index @xmath46 , and using @xmath47 .",
    "figures  13 show the evolution of a binary system consisting of a @xmath48 ns , a @xmath49 donor star with an initial orbital period of @xmath50 and for @xmath51 , @xmath52 , @xmath53 , respectively .",
    "we end the calculations when the age exceeds 15  gyr .",
    "the donor star begins mass transfer while it is still on the main sequence ( @xmath54 ) .",
    "because of angular momentum loss , mainly due to magnetic braking ( initially gravitational wave radiation is less important ) , the orbital period continues to decrease as the donor mass decreases .",
    "when the donor mass decreases to about @xmath55 , and the orbital period has decreased to about @xmath56 , we find that the donor star becomes fully convective , leading to roche  lobe decoupling and switch - on of the radio pulsar and subsequent evaporation of the companion star ( see section  [ sec : scenario ] ) .    from this point onwards",
    ", the evolution of the binary system deviates with different values of @xmath40 .",
    "this is a result of the competition between the widening of the orbit due to expelled , evaporated material and the shrinking of the orbit due to gravitational wave radiation . in figure  1",
    ", the donor star will refill its roche  lobe and resume mass transfer again after 57  myr .",
    "however , as mentioned previously , the radio ejection mechanism will prevent the ns from accreting at this stage . in figure  2 , the donor star is decoupled from its roche  lobe for a long time as a consequence of using a higher @xmath40-value .",
    "the more efficient evaporation of the companion star causes the system to shrink less fast and the system remains detached for 1.4  gyr .",
    "finally , in figure  3 , the donor star remains detached from its roche  lobe at all times after the pulsar emission turns on . for different lmxbs with different initial parameters ( @xmath57 ) , we find that the shape of the evolution tracks are rather similar .    in order to compare with observations , we calculated the evolution of several binary systems with different values of @xmath40 . figure  4 shows the evolution of constant initial donor star mass ( @xmath58 ) and orbital period ( @xmath59 ) but with different values of @xmath40 between 0.0 and 0.20 . also plotted are four examples of binary systems with 1.0 and @xmath60 donor stars and initial orbital periods of 0.8 and 1.4  days .",
    "( in addition , we calculated tracks for a @xmath61 donor star with practically the same outcome and thus not plotted here . ) from this figure , it is clear that we can explain the formation of most of the eclipsing binary pulsars .",
    "in addition , we find that redbacks are more easily produced with larger values of @xmath40 , while black  widows require smaller values of @xmath40 .",
    "this means that a larger fraction of the pulsar luminosity is absorbed by the companion star in redback systems compared with the companions in black  widow systems .",
    "there is apparently a bifurcation in the evolutionary tracks at about @xmath62 ( @xmath63 for @xmath61 donor stars ) , such that systems with larger @xmath40-values produce redbacks and systems with smaller @xmath40-values lead to black  widows .",
    "furthermore , we notice that the evolutionary tracks leading to the redbacks ( the dotted tracks in figure  4 ) , in general , do not evolve into black  widow systems . only in a few cases with @xmath40-values",
    "fine - tuned near the bifurcation value ( @xmath62 ) , will redback systems with @xmath64 evolve into black  widow systems .",
    "in figure  5 we plot a histogram of the distribution of companion masses in eclipsing msp systems .",
    "it is clearly seen that the distribution is bimodal , with black  widow companions being lighter than redback companions ( see also @xcite and @xcite for globular cluster and galactic field sources , respectively ) .",
    "we have demonstrated that this strongly bimodal distribution is caused by a bifurcation in the evolution of binaries depending on the efficiency of companion evaporation following pulsar switch - on when the donor star detaches from its roche - lobe .",
    "we propose that the reason for the different values of @xmath40 may simply be related to the distribution of angles between the orbital angular momentum axis and the pulsar magnetic axis , which determines the geometry ( beaming ) of the outflow of charged particles from the pulsar magnetosphere .",
    "unfortunately , for msps it is very difficult to determine the magnetic inclination angle from polarization measurements and test this hypothesis .",
    "observations of @xmath4-ray detected msps show large variations in the conversion of pulsar spin - down luminosity into @xmath4-rays ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) which could also affect the evaporation efficiency .",
    "as seen in figure  4 , a few of the redback systems with relatively large companion masses and large orbital periods are not reached by our evolutionary tracks .",
    "we suggest that these systems somehow became ( temporarily ) detached when @xmath65 , resulting in radio pulsar switch - on and ablation of the donor star at an early stage . whether this is the result of a decrease in the effect of magnetic braking or a temporary radial contraction of the donor star , for example , due to a chemical abundance discontinuity in the hydrogen burning layer",
    ", is unknown .",
    "another possibility is accretion - powered radiation of the companion star .",
    "it has been argued that mev @xmath4-rays may be produced in the inner region of the accretion disk and that such high - energy photons deposit more energy in the outer layers of the irradiated stellar atmosphere than any other kind of illumination @xcite . according to @xcite , however , the secular evolution of lmxbs is not much different from that of unilluminated systems ( see also brief discussion in section  [ subsec : isolatedmsps ] ) .      in some cases , the spectra of eclipsing msps display prominent h@xmath27 emission lines @xcite .",
    "in addition , some optical studies show that roche - lobe filling factors are @xmath66 and that the companions are being ablated @xcite .",
    "these evidences show that the companions are probably non - degenerate stars instead of white dwarfs . in our models ,",
    "the companions are indeed often hydrogen - rich non- or semi - degenerate stars , consistent with the observations . for the black  widow systems , the donors may ,",
    "in principle , be hydrogen deficient .",
    "psr  j1023 + 0038 is a redback system , which is regarded as a `` missing link '' of the recycling formation scenario , discovered in a green bank telescope drift scan pulsar survey by @xcite .",
    "this binary msp was revealed to be spinning at a period of 1.69  ms while orbiting a @xmath67 companion star with an orbital period of 4.8  hr . in 20002001 ,",
    "the optical spectra showed double peaked emission lines indicating the presence of an accretion disk @xcite .",
    "this indicates that the companion was previously overflowing its roche  lobe and transferring mass , forming an accretion disk around the ns",
    ". however , there was no strong evidence of accretion - powered x - ray emission , possibly as a result of a propeller effect during this epoch @xcite .",
    "the eclipsing nature of psr  j1023 + 0038 , its orbital period of 4.8  hr and a @xmath68 companion star are all consistent with the evolutionary tracks presented here ( cf . figure  3 , and the dotted tracks in figure  4 ) .",
    "it is very likely that this source is currently undergoing cyclic episodes of accretion , possibly related to a combination of donor star irradiation @xcite and accretion disk instabilities @xcite combined with the radio ejection mechanism ( l.  burderi , private communication ) .",
    "the probability of catching this system in the act of a one time transition from an lmxb to a radio msp is simply too small .",
    "indeed , similar evidence is found in another redback system : psr  j1824@xmath692452i in m28 @xcite .",
    "this source has recently been discovered to undergo cyclic transitions between accretion- and rotation powered states @xcite .",
    "the msp has an orbital period of 11.0  hr and a median ( minimum ) companion mass of @xmath70 ( @xmath71 ) for an assumed ns mass of @xmath72 . according to the ( @xmath73)relation for helium white dwarfs formed in lmxbs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) this companion star may still have a few @xmath74 of hydrogen left which forms the bloated envelope around the degenerate helium core . whether or not the system will continue evolving on a long time - scale of several gyr with a bloated donor ( cf .",
    "figure  3 ) or finally detach and leave behind a helium white dwarf is unclear . in the latter case",
    ", the secular evolution ( myr ) may lead to a spin period increase of this msp depending on the timescale at which the magnetosphere expands due to the decreasing mass - transfer rate @xcite .",
    "however , on much shorter timescales ( years or decades ) several small torque reversals arise from alternating phases of accretion and radio ejection which will cause a rather erratic behaviour of the spin period evolution .",
    "psr  j1816 + 4510 ( k.  stovall et  al . , in preparation ) is yet another interesting example illustrating the puzzling nature of a redback system .",
    "@xcite recently reported optical spectroscopy of this system and demonstrated that , on the one hand the companion star possesses the characteristic features of a helium white dwarf spectrum while on the other hand , it is metal - rich and has a low surface gravity  typical to that of a much larger , bloated non- or semi - degenerate star ( causing the ionized gas eclipses of the radio pulsar signal ) .",
    "psr  j1719@xmath691438 @xcite has an intriguing formation history .",
    "if the very low - mass companion ( planet ) has a composition of helium , then the system could have formed via the converging lmxb scenario as described here ( as demonstrated in detail by * ? ? ?",
    ". however , if the composition is made of carbon and oxygen then the formation of this systems is most likely the result of an ultra - compact x - ray binary ( ucxb , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; a scenario in which an intermediate - mass carbon - oxygen white dwarf transfers , basically , all its mass towards a ns on a hubble timescale , while the system widens .",
    "the eclipsing black  widow psr  j1311@xmath693430 , recently discovered by @xcite and @xcite , has @xmath75 and a minimum mean density of @xmath76 , which hints that this system may also have evolved from an ucxb .",
    "this may explain its location slightly below our evolutionary tracks in figure  4 . for a study on the formation of black  widow - like msps in globular clusters from ucxbs ,",
    "see also @xcite .    in general",
    ", it is not straight forward to compare our estimated mass - loss rates from modelling ( and the predicted rates of orbital widening ) with those inferred from observations . in particular , in the classical black  widow systems psr  1957",
    "+ 20 and j2051@xmath690827 where there is observational evidence @xcite for spin - orbit couplings and tidal dissipation leading to changes in the gravitational quadrupole moment of the companion @xcite .",
    "these effects result in severe orbital evolution , even with sign changes of the orbital period derivative , thereby making a comparison to our long - term evolution models difficult .      at present , almost 300 msps ( here defined with @xmath77 ) are detected in the galactic field ( 154 ) and in globular clusters ( 130 ) .",
    "these msps are thought to be formed by the recycling process .",
    "however , about 1/3 of all msps are isolated .",
    "it is still not well known how these solitary msps are formed .",
    "it was suggested by @xcite that isolated msps are formed from black  widows which ablate away their companions by the energetic particles and the @xmath4-rays emanating from radio msps .",
    "furthermore , there is evidence for such a scenario by the discoveries of msps with planets @xcite , and even indications of an msp with an asteroid belt @xcite , possibly the debris of a former tidally disrupted planet - like companion .    from figures  1 and 2",
    ", it seems that it is difficult to produce isolated msps within a hubble time from our calculations of the converging lmxb scenario .",
    "however , we have not considered the structure change of the companion star due to the penetration of radiation into its envelope .",
    "as @xcite suggested , the radius of such a companion will greatly expand .",
    "hence , the mass - loss rate due to an evaporation wind could increase significantly and the evaporation timescale of the companion should be shorter .",
    "@xcite did include irradiation feedback of the donor star but find that this effect ( while causing cyclic mass - transfer episodes ) does not induce any remarkable changes in the evolution in the ( @xmath78)plane . to judge from their figure  1 , the evolution is accelerated slightly with respect to time and it may still be possible for the pulsar to ablate away the companion and produce an isolated msp .    to conclude , we have demonstrated that the two populations of eclipsing binary msps , the black  widows and the redbacks , are not only distinct with respect to their observational properties , but also from an evolutionary point of view .",
    "the determining factor for producing black  widows or redbacks is the efficiency of the companion evaporation .",
    "our calculations suggest that the fraction of pulsar spin - down luminosity absorbed by the companion is larger for redbacks than that for black  widows ( possibly as a result of a different beaming geometry and/or msp @xmath4-ray luminosity ) . despite our rather simple modelling , we are able to reproduce the distribution of the observed systems quite well .",
    "last but not least , we find that redback systems do not evolve into black  widow systems with time .",
    "we are grateful to norbert langer for helpful discussions .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for suggestions that improved our paper , and also philipp podsiadlowskii for discussions on the evaporation efficiency parameter .",
    "this work was partly supported by nsfc ( nos .",
    "10973036 , 11173055 , 11033008 and 11003003 ) , the cas ( no .",
    "kjcx2-yw - t24 , the talent project of western light ) and the talent project of young researchers of yunnan province ( no .",
    "2012hb037 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> eclipsing binary millisecond pulsars ( the so - called black  widows and redbacks ) can provide important information about accretion history , pulsar irradiation of their companion stars and the evolutionary link between accreting x - ray pulsars and isolated millisecond pulsars . </S>",
    "<S> however , the formation of such systems is not well understood , nor the difference in progenitor evolution between the two populations of black  widows and redbacks . </S>",
    "<S> whereas both populations have orbital periods between @xmath0 their companion masses differ by an order of magnitude . in this paper , we investigate the formation of these systems via evolution of converging low - mass x - ray binaries by employing the mesa stellar evolution code . </S>",
    "<S> our results confirm that one can explain the formation of most of these eclipsing binary millisecond pulsars using this scenario . </S>",
    "<S> more notably , we find that the determining factor for producing either black  widows or redbacks is the efficiency of the irradiation process , such that the redbacks absorb a larger fraction of the emitted spin - down energy of the radio pulsar ( resulting in more efficient mass loss via evaporation ) compared to that of the black  widow systems . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that geometric effects ( beaming ) is responsible for the strong bimodality of these two populations . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we conclude that redback systems do not evolve into black  widow systems with time . </S>"
  ]
}