{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsph ) have sparked great interest in astronomy in the latest years , since they would be the seed of the formation of larger structures in the cold dark matter cosmology .",
    "they are believed to be highly dark matter dominated objects .",
    "the observed dsph galaxies are characterized by low surface brightnesses with an absolute magnitude ranging between @xmath1 m@xmath2 @xmath3 @xcite , half - light radii from @xmath4 to @xmath5  pc @xcite , low central concentrations and old stellar populations in almost all cases .",
    "their mass in stars is low ( less than @xmath6m@xmath7 ) and  ( with the exception of leo  t , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) they are devoid of hi gas @xcite . however , due to their intrinsic faintness the study of dsph galaxies has been very difficult .    during the past decade , in the era of sdss ( sloan digital sky survey ) and large spectroscopic surveys with 8-meter - class telescopes , our understanding about this objects in our local group has grown substantially .",
    "new dsph galaxies have been found , doubling the sample of the nine dsphs that we already knew @xcite .",
    "furthermore , several known dsphs galaxies ( e.g.  fornax , sculptor , sextans , ursa minor ) show signs of stellar substructure or multiple distinct chemo - kinematic populations @xcite .",
    "specifically , in fornax it is observed , that there are stellar over - densities along the minor axis and five globular clusters , possibly remnants of past mergers @xcite or an unknown formation mechanism .",
    "although , enormous advances in measuring and understanding the properties of these faint objects are made , there is not a definitive model of a possible formation scenario , that can predict all the known properties .",
    "there are many models that attempt to explain the possible formation of these dsphs @xcite .",
    "one class considers the dark matter cosmology as a starting point , assuming dwarf disc galaxies embedded in dm haloes as initial models . to convert these objects into the dsph galaxies we know , external processes have to be invoked .",
    "these external influences could stem from a larger galaxy ( e.g.  like the mw ) , exerting tidal and ram pressure stripping forces ( e.g. @xcite ) onto the dwarf . in these models ,",
    "the morphological transformation by tidal forces of late - type dwarfs , leading to objects resembling present - day dirr , combined with mass loss due to tidal and ram pressure stripping aided by heating due to the cosmic ionized background can turn the dwarfs into objects with low angular momentum , high mass - to - light ratios , faint stellar luminosity profiles , and velocity dispersion profiles that resemble classical dsph galaxies .",
    "these models have difficulties to explain the presence of distant isolated dsph galaxies such as tucana and cetus .",
    "another mechanism considers resonant stripping ( introduced by * ? ? ?",
    "the models start with the same initial conditions as described above , i.e.  they start with rotationally supported galaxies , but this time consider resonant stripping by encounters between dwarf disc galaxies .",
    "the dsph galaxies are formed by a process driven by gravitational resonances .",
    "there is another model that attempts to explain the formation of these dwarf galaxies , without assuming dm haloes at all , i.e.  leaving the standard cosmological framework .",
    "the model is based on energy and momentum conservation , when gas - rich galaxies interact @xcite . in this model",
    "the dsph galaxies are regarded as second - generation objects , devoid of dm , forming in the tidal tails of gas - rich interacting galaxies .",
    "all the models cited above consider the interaction between two or more galaxies to explain the formation of dsph galaxies . here , we present a different approach , considering observational evidences for kinematic substructures @xcite .",
    "these properties are consistent with the kinematics of disrupted star clusters , i.e.stellar streams .",
    "we investigate , numerically , initial conditions for isolated models that allow for the formation of objects that resemble the classical dsph galaxies .",
    "our model is based on the assumption that stars never form in isolation but in a clustered way like associations and star clusters @xcite .",
    "the dynamical evolution of these star clusters , i.e.  their dissolution due to gas expulsion and subsequent formation of a diffuse stellar distribution in the centre of a dm halo , may explain the formation of classical dsph galaxies , including all their irregularities in the stellar and kinematic distribution as well as surviving star clusters around them .",
    "we envisage that our scenario could be immediately relevant for forming dsphs from initial conditions similar to leo  t which has low luminosity , little evidence of angular momentum in its gas component  @xcite , and show no signs of being perturbed by the tidal forces from nearby galaxies ( i.e. the milky way in the case of leo  t. )    in our first paper @xcite we introduced our scenario , showed and discussed the results of a fiducial model , which matches the observations of classical dsph galaxies .",
    "we also presented possible ways to verify our scenario . in this paper now , we show how our results depend on the initial conditions of our simulations by performing a wide parameter search .",
    "one of the parameters we choose for testing our formation scenario is the profile of the dm halo .",
    "we consider two profiles for the dark matter - cusped and cored .",
    "standard , dark matter only cosmological simulations suggest that galaxy haloes should have cusped inner profiles  ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; hereinafter nfw ) .",
    "we generate initial conditions for our cusped nfw haloes using nemo , which is described in @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", we note that dynamical models of several local group dwarf galaxies suggest that these galaxies may have dm haloes with cored profiles  @xcite .",
    "further , there is also evidence from the stellar kinematics for the presence of cored profiles in these objects @xcite .",
    "therefore , we also consider models with a cored dm halo using a plummer profile @xcite .",
    "both types of dm halo profiles are modeled using @xmath8 particles .",
    "we adopt two variable parameters related with the dm halo .",
    "the first one is the mass enclosed within @xmath9  pc , m@xmath10 .",
    "the second is the scale - length r@xmath11 of the dm halo .",
    "we consider masses m@xmath12  m@xmath7 , @xmath13  m@xmath7 , and @xmath14  m@xmath7 .",
    "for each mass we further investigate three different scale - lengths for the dm halo .",
    "we adopt r@xmath11 equal to @xmath15 , @xmath16 , and @xmath17  kpc .",
    "the corresponding virial radii @xmath18 and concentration parameters @xmath19 for the nfw haloes can be found in tab .",
    "[ tab : init - cond ] .",
    "the luminous components of our simulations are formed by the evolution of many ( @xmath20 ) star clusters within the dm halo .",
    "we model each star cluster as a plummer sphere @xcite , following the recipe of @xcite .",
    "the plummer radius , r@xmath21 , is @xmath22  pc and the cut - off radius , r@xmath23 , is @xmath24  pc .",
    "the values for r@xmath25 and r@xmath23 are based on the observations of young star clusters in the antennae galaxy @xcite .",
    "all star clusters are represented by 100,000 particles each .",
    "there are many processes acting on star clusters , for example gas - expulsion , stellar evolution , relaxation , external tidal fields .",
    "however , gas - expulsion can be considered the most important . from the observations in antennae galaxy @xcite found that the number of clusters drop exponentially with age and that the median age of clusters is only @xmath26  years . in addition , in the milky way @xcite speculate that only a small fraction of embedded clusters ( @xmath27 ) can become open clusters .",
    "motivated by this facts , we add the process of gas - expulsion to our model and we study how the results are affected considering different values of sfe for the star clusters .",
    "we implement this process in the following way :    * we assume a final total luminous mass of the dsph galaxy of @xmath28  m@xmath7 .",
    "these value lies in the range of stellar masses of the classical dwarfs @xcite . *",
    "this mass is now divided into @xmath20 star clusters giving a final mass of a single cluster . for simplicity",
    "we assume that all star clusters have the same mass and do not take a mass spectrum into account .",
    "* now we adopt a sfe and alter ( i.e.  increase ) the mass of a single cluster according to its mass in the embedded phase , i.e. mass of stars and gas . in this form",
    "we set up the embedded cluster as a plummer sphere in virial equilibrium . * after starting the simulation we mimic the gas - expulsion by reducing the mass of the star cluster during one of its crossing - times back to the mass of the stars alone , leaving the cluster out of virial equilibrium and slowly dissolving .    in the simulations we vary the initial number of star clusters within the dm halo and the sfe",
    "we consider an initial number , @xmath20 , of 15 , 30 and 60 star clusters .",
    "these numbers have been chosen arbitrarily .",
    "the star formation rate and efficiency in a dsph galaxy is supposedly low @xcite .",
    "therefore , we adopt values of sfe of @xmath29 and @xmath30 per cent for each star cluster .",
    "but we also check if a high value of the sfe , i.e.  @xmath31 per cent , allows the formation of an object that resembles a dsph galaxy .",
    "the star clusters are placed inside the dm halo following a plummer distribution .",
    "we choose this distribution , taking into account the fact that we expect more star clusters to form in the central area than further out in the dwarf .",
    "the initial number of clusters is that low , that the exact form of the distribution is not of importance , as different distributions could not be differentiated due to low number statistics .",
    "initially , these star clusters are in virial equilibrium on their orbits inside the dm halo .",
    "the initial orbital velocities are obtained using the jeans equation ( see * ? ? ? * ) : @xmath32 where m@xmath33 corresponds to the total mass given by the sum of the mass of all embedded clusters and the mass of the dm halo in each simulation .",
    "as the mass of the halo is much higher than the mass of the expelled gas , we do not consider the lost gas - mass in our simulations , apart from its effect on the scs , which is leaving them out of virial equilibrium and dissolving .",
    "the distribution of the star clusters has a scale - length , @xmath34 , which we vary to be @xmath35 , @xmath9 , and @xmath5  pc .",
    "[ tab : conf ]    cccccc +   + n / p & @xmath20 & @xmath36 & @xmath37 & @xmath38 & sfe + n & @xmath39 & m @xmath40 & rh @xmath41 & rs @xmath41 & s@xmath29 + p & @xmath42 & m @xmath43 & rh @xmath44 & rs @xmath44 & s@xmath30 + & @xmath45 & m @xmath46 & rh @xmath47 & rs @xmath47 & s@xmath31 +    in table  [ tab : conf ] , we show the nomenclature that we use to label each simulation .",
    "the first column specifies what type of dm halo profile we are using .",
    "n is used to refer to a nfw profile and p to a plummer profile .",
    "the second column indicates the number of scs at the beginning of each simulation , where 015 , 030 and 060 correspond to 15 , 30 and 60 star clusters , respectively .",
    "the next two columns are used to denote the mass enclosed at the radius of @xmath9  pc and the scale - length of the dm halo , respectively . for an example , m 407 is used to denote that m@xmath48  m@xmath7 and rh 025 that r@xmath49  pc .",
    "similarly , the fifth column denotes the scale length of the initial distribution of the star clusters , @xmath38 . in the sixth column",
    "we indicate the sfe : 15% , 30% and 60%",
    ".    a more detailed view of the initial conditions of all our simulations can be found in tab .",
    "[ tab : init - cond ] .",
    "as described above we start our simulations with all components in virial equilibrium .",
    "all star clusters are inserted at the same time for simplicity .",
    "this does not imply that our models depend on the fact that a dsph galaxy has just a single star formation episode .",
    "it just reduces the number of free parameters .",
    "we leave the investigation of more complicated forms of star formation histories to a follow up project .    within the first internal crossing time of the star clusters we remove their assumed gas - mass by artificially reducing the mass of each particle .",
    "this leaves the cluster out of equilibrium , expanding and slowly dissolving along its orbit inside the dm halo .",
    "the simulations are performed using the particle - mesh code superbox @xcite , which has additional two levels of high - resolution grids for each modeled object .",
    "those high resolution grids are moving with the objects through the simulation space ( focused on the centre of density of an object ) .",
    "the resolution of the highest resolution grid has usually @xmath50  pc per cell for the dm halo and @xmath51  pc per cell for the star clusters .",
    "this grid - level monitors the central area of the dm halo and the star clusters respectively .",
    "the mid - level grids have resolutions of @xmath52  pc per cell for the halo and covers the complete area in which the star clusters are moving and @xmath53  pc for the star clusters to resolve the interactions between the dissolving clusters properly .",
    "the outermost grid has the same size for all modeled objects and covers the simulation area beyond the virial radius of the dm halo , with a resolution for most simulations of about @xmath54  kpc per cell . at a later stage of the simulation , when all star clusters are dissolved and have formed a fuzzy luminous object , we re -",
    "order the stars into one luminous object with grid - sizes for the high resolution grids depending on the size of the formed object .",
    "this is done for resolution and performance reasons , likewise .",
    "the code uses a fixed time - step of @xmath15  myr to ensure that the internal dynamics of the initial clusters are resolved properly .",
    "we follow the evolution of our models over a long period of time , i.e.@xmath55  gyr and give the results of our models at the end of this time period .",
    "we study the final object by analyzing its morphology , luminosity and dynamics .",
    "one might argue that a particle - mesh code is not suitable to perform simulations of star clusters as it is by definition collision - less and neglects internal two - body processes of the star clusters , which are important for the long - term evolution of the cluster .",
    "but as almost all clusters in our simulations dissolve and spread their stars throughout the central region of the dwarf galaxy quite fast and we do not investigate the properties of surviving clusters , the stars in our simulations enter a collision - less state very quickly and are very well modeled by a collision - less code . as a final remark , we state that the star - particles in our simulations do not represent single stars at all .",
    "the particles of a mesh - based code rather represent tracers of the phase - space .",
    "therefore the actual number of star - particles does not necessarily coincide with the number of stars .",
    "more information can be found in @xcite .",
    "we perform @xmath56 numerical simulations of which @xmath57 simulations have different initial parameters . the @xmath58 other simulations are repetitions of the same parameter sets with different random number seeds to analyze the importance of the low number statistics regarding the initial positions and velocities of our @xmath20 star clusters .",
    "the goal is to show that our formation scenario of dsph galaxies leads to objects that resemble these galaxies , even when quite different initial conditions are assumed thus demonstrating the plausibility of our scenario .",
    "several surface density profiles have been used in the literature to fit the observed surface brightness curves of the dsph galaxies @xcite .",
    "there is also some evidence of environmental effects in the surface brightness profiles of dsphs @xcite . in this work",
    "we consider srsic @xcite profiles according to the following formula : @xmath59 \\right ) \\\\",
    "b_{n } & = & 1.9992 n - 0.3271 \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where r@xmath60 is the effective radius and @xmath61 is the surface density at the effective radius .",
    "the index @xmath62 gives information about the shape of the dsph galaxy . in the case @xmath63 , we have a exponential - shaped profile for the surface density distribution .",
    "surface brightness profiles show integrated light along the line - of - sight .",
    "as we do not know along which line - of - sight our objects may be observed , we calculate a mean value out of three possible sight - lines along the cartesian coordinate axes @xmath64 , @xmath65 and @xmath66 .",
    "some of the simulations have been repeated using a different random number seed to explore the variations of the properties of the objects formed from different realizations of the same initial conditions .",
    "the idea for considering srsic profiles comes from the fact that king profiles , even though widely used , do not reflect that we are analyzing luminous components inside dm haloes , i.e.  well shielded from any external potential .",
    "therefore , the objects can not be expected to be tidally truncated . whereas some of the known dsph galaxies seem to be well fitted by king profiles , there is no physical reason behind it .",
    "we find that many of our models are not well fitted by king profiles with a truncation radius , i.e.  a tidal radius . as our initial conditions for the stars",
    "are based on plummer distributions it is quite natural to try as well a plummer fit to the results .",
    "again , our results show that the luminous components are badly fitted by two - parameter plummer profiles .",
    "this result can be seen as a confirmation that our choice of the initial distribution of the luminous mass does not affect the final outcome . finally , the srsic profile has the advantage of being a 3-parameter fit that easily adjusts to the data",
    ". a detailed overview of all profiles fitted to all the simulations can be found in tab .",
    "[ tab : res1 ] .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : bright ] , we show the correlation between the three parameters of the srsic profile ( @xmath61 , @xmath62 and @xmath67 ) fitted to our models with the parameters m@xmath10 , r@xmath11 and r@xmath68 of our initial conditions , while keeping the other two parameters constant . by analyzing the data we do not find any dependency of the srsic parameters on the halo profile used ( plummer or nfw ) or on the number of star clusters @xmath20 . also , as long as the sfe is low ( i.e.  15 or 30  % ) , there is no dependency of the results either .",
    "we therefore calculate the mean values of the fitting parameters keeping the above mentioned parameters constant but adding up all simulations with different profiles , number of star clusters and sfe .",
    "the data points show the mean values and the error - bars give the one sigma deviations of the mean .    in the left column",
    "we show the dependency of the srsic parameters on the mass of the halo within @xmath9  pc . in these simulations",
    "we keep @xmath69  kpc and @xmath70  kpc constant .",
    "we do not see a change in the surface brightness profile parameters when changing the mass of the dm halo .",
    "one might expect more stars to settle in a deeper potential , but this seems not to be the case .",
    "obviously it is not the absolute value of the potential influencing the light distribution .",
    "this seems to be supported by observations , as we do not have large differences in surface brightness profiles between the dsph galaxies .",
    "instead we do see a strong dependency of the effective surface brightness on the scale - length of the halo as seen in the top panel of the middle column of fig .",
    "[ fig : bright ] . the surface density increases as we go to smaller halo scale - lengths .",
    "this can be understood as we have a steeper profile with smaller scale - lengths .",
    "this contradicts in a sense our finding that we see no trend between cusped and cored profiles .",
    "but as the nfw profiles have a cusp in their centre , the plummer profiles are steeper in the outer parts .",
    "we therefore conclude that it is rather a dependency on the steepness of the halo - profile along all radii of the luminous component than just a function of the very central behaviour . accordingly if we distribute the mass more centrally concentrated , the scale - lengths of the luminous components are slightly decreasing ( bottom middle panel ) .    comparing our results with the classical dsph galaxies like carina , draco or sextans ( whose total luminous mass agrees with our fixed luminous mass ) , which have central surface - brightnesses in the order of @xmath71@xmath72  l@xmath7pc@xmath73 ( * ? ? ? * and references therein ) , our results favour larger halo scale - lengths of approximately @xmath16  kpc and more ( taking into account that our effective brightness should be lower than the central one and that we expect a mass - to - light ratio , for the stellar component only , of larger than unity ) .",
    "a strong rising trend of @xmath67 with @xmath38 is observed in the bottom - right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : bright ] .",
    "this is also expected because if the luminous matter started more concentrated , it should also be more concentrated in the final object . for r@xmath74  kpc , the mean value of r@xmath60 obtained in the simulations is @xmath75  pc . for r@xmath76",
    "kpc the resulting objects have an average effective radius of @xmath77  pc .",
    "finally , for simulations with an initial @xmath38 of @xmath71  kpc , the final effective radius has a mean value of @xmath78  kpc .",
    "thus , the final scale - length is almost double the initial scale - length of the star cluster distribution . here",
    "the dependency of the effective surface density is not that pronounced but the dependency on the effective radius is quite strong .",
    "the results show that we can disentangle the influence of the different initial parameters :    * the mass of the halo has no influence on the mean values of the srsic fits . * smaller scale - lengths of the haloes lead to brighter dwarf galaxies in the central area . *",
    "if the luminous component is formed out of a smaller and denser gas - distribution ( i.e.  star cluster distribution ) we see smaller scale - lengths in our final galaxy .",
    "another reassuring result is shown in the panels of the middle row of fig .",
    "[ fig : bright ] .",
    "we see that the srsic index @xmath62 has no dependency on any initial parameter .",
    "it shows always mean values around @xmath17 , independently of the values of @xmath36 , @xmath37 or @xmath38 .",
    "this means that our resulting objects have approximately an exponential surface density profile , like the dsph galaxies of the local group @xcite .",
    "photometrical observations of the dsph galaxies in the local group @xcite show that we can find different sizes of these galaxies .",
    "for example , the effective radii of draco , ursa minor , sculptor and fornax are @xmath79 , @xmath80 , @xmath81 and @xmath82  pc , respectively .    if our formation scenario is correct , then the initial distribution of baryons which now form the luminous components had smaller scale - lengths in their initial gas distribution . as a rule by thumb we can say : about half the value of their effective radii today .",
    "[ fig : clumpshape1 ]    it is possible to characterize the shape of our resulting objects considering the parameters of clumpiness , @xmath83 , introduced by @xcite , the ellipticity @xmath84 of the object , and the isophotal parameter @xmath85 @xcite .",
    "we show all results in tab .",
    "[ tab : shape ] .",
    "one feature that can characterize the light distribution in a galaxy is the patchiness of the distribution . @xcite",
    "introduce the @xmath83-parameter ( called clumpiness ) , which is a measure of the inhomogeneity of the distribution of the stars .",
    "we deviate from the method explained in @xcite and construct a smooth elliptic model which fits our simulation results , using the iraf routine ellipse .",
    "then we subtract this smooth model from our data and sum the positive residuals .",
    "the ratio between these residuals and the original data is the clumpiness @xmath83 .",
    "more details about this method can be found in @xcite .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : clumpshape1 ] , we show the relationship between the clumpiness @xmath83 of the models and ( top left ) @xmath36 , ( top right ) @xmath20 , ( bottom left ) @xmath37 and ( bottom right ) @xmath38 .",
    "first we observe that all our simulation lead to low values of the clumpiness parameter .",
    "it is hard to compare our results with the classical dsph of the mw as there was not yet a determination of their clumpiness published .",
    "comparing our results with values published in @xcite we see that our results for cuspy halo profiles and small halo scale - lengths lie in the range of values found for dwarf ellipticals and the results for cored haloes and large scale - lengths at the lower end of the values for dwarf irregulars .",
    "ten gyr of evolution are enough to erase almost all deviations from a smooth object in positional space . that this is not necessarily true for the velocity space will be dealt with in a later section .    in all panels",
    "we observe that cored profiles ( plummer ) lead to a higher clumpiness than the corresponding cusped profiles ( nfw ) .",
    "this in fact is not a new result and was expected .",
    "cuspy profiles are better in erasing sub - structure .",
    "only if the scale - lengths of the haloes are low , cuspy and cored profiles do not differ significantly any longer ( see bottom left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : clumpshape1 ] ) .",
    "the mass of the halo ( top left ) and the scale - length of the star cluster distribution ( bottom right ) seem to have no influence on the clumpiness at all . finally we see a clear trend with the number of star clusters ( top right ) . if we distribute the mass into more star clusters the resulting clumpiness is lower .",
    "this finding is expected as with an initial distribution which is smoother one ends up with a final object which has less deviations from smoothness .",
    "we can ask ourselves now , what does this clumpiness mean for our resulting objects .",
    "we see a huge variety in shapes in our models , like off - centre nuclei , secondary density peaks , peanut - shaped central regions and as an extreme even two equally important density centres as shown as an example in fig .",
    "[ fig : doublecore ] .",
    "another structural parameter is the ellipticity , @xmath84 .",
    "this parameter is defined by @xmath86 where @xmath87 is the minor and @xmath88 is the major axis of an ellipse .",
    "the dsph galaxies of the local group sculptor , fornax , ursa minor , and draco have @xmath84 values of @xmath89 , @xmath90 , @xmath91 and @xmath92 , respectively @xcite .",
    "we determine the ellipticity values at the half - mass radius ( as the ellipticity may vary throughout the dwarf ) by fitting a smooth model to our simulation data using the iraf routine ellipse .",
    "in the top row of fig .  [",
    "fig : ea4 ] , we study the dependence of @xmath84 on the initial parameters of our numerical experiments by keeping all other parameters constant .",
    "we observe no dependency between @xmath84 and m@xmath10 . in the first bin ( @xmath26  m@xmath7 )",
    "we show two data points , for cusped and cored haloes separately , as we do have multiple realisations of those parameter sets to determine mean values and errors . as they agree",
    "( within @xmath93-error - bars ) we do not distinguish between the two halo types . however , it is interesting to observe that the final objects have @xmath84 values close to the values of the classical dsph galaxies , regardless whether the simulations had a cusped or cored dm halo @xcite .",
    "it is also interesting that @xmath84 shows an increasing trend with the scale - length of the dm halo . at r@xmath94  kpc , @xmath95 . when r@xmath96  kpc @xmath97 .",
    "finally , for r@xmath98  kpc , we show again the two separate results from the first panel and obtain @xmath99 for nfw haloes and @xmath100 for plummer haloes",
    ". a possible explanation could be that with large scale - lengths more mass of the halo is at larger radii and can influence radial orbits to be more eccentric , i.e.  have larger apo - centres .",
    "if now , due to our low number in scs , more orbits are aligned in one direction leading to a non - spherical object , it will be even more elongated if we have a larger scale - length of the halo .",
    "if this trend should be real in spite the large error - bars , our data would suggest that the real dwarf spheroidal galaxies of the mw would have halo scale - lengths preferably of @xmath16  kpc or higher .",
    "this agrees well with our findings from the central surface - brightness .",
    "there is no relation between the initial @xmath38 and the ellipticity of the final object ( see top right panel ) .",
    "another parameter obtained from the ellipse routine is the fourth - order fourier - coefficient , @xmath85 , which corresponds to the value of the isophotal deviation from a perfect ellipse .",
    "@xmath85 is positive for disky galaxies and negative for boxy galaxies @xcite .",
    "the results of all our simulations are shown in tab .",
    "[ tab : shape ] .    in the bottom row of fig .",
    "[ fig : ea4 ] we show @xmath85 versus m@xmath10 , r@xmath11 and r@xmath68 . as always ,",
    "we keep the other input parameter constant and only calculate the mean of simulations with identical initial conditions but different random seeds . in the figure",
    "the parameter @xmath85 , in general , tends to zero and this shows the spheroidal character of the objects .",
    "there is no observable trend between @xmath85 and @xmath36 or r@xmath11 .",
    "as we can see in all panels ( or better not see ) , is that the data - points for cusped and cored haloes are almost identical and fall on top of each other . for @xmath101  m@xmath7 , @xmath102  kpc and @xmath103   kpc",
    "we obtain for cusped haloes @xmath104 and for cored haloes @xmath105 .",
    "we do not believe that there is an actual trend to disky shapes with high values of @xmath38 .",
    "this data - point is based on four simulations only , from which three show extreme deviations from ellipticity . such outliers appear in every bin but usually with alternating signs .",
    "we think it is an effect by chance that for this data - point all three outliers have positive values .",
    "the single values of the simulations are all in agreement with observations of elliptical galaxies @xcite .",
    "they all show only small deviations in the order of 0.01 to 0.1 with alternating signs , i.e.  our formation process does favour neither disky nor boxy shapes .",
    "we also indicate in tab .",
    "[ tab : shape ] if we find star clusters , which are not dissolved after the 10  gyr of evolution in our simulations .",
    "we show these simulations also in fig .  [",
    "fig : ssc ] and plot the relative number of surviving star clusters against the initial conditions of the simulations .",
    "we see in all panels that in cored haloes , clusters have a higher chance to survive .",
    "this suggests that traveling through a cuspy central region with small scale - length ( i.e. steep potential gradient ) does not enhance the survival - ability of the star clusters .",
    "the bottom left panel shows that more concentrated cluster distributions lead to more cluster surviving .",
    "the bottom right panel shows the obvious .",
    "if the sfe is as low as @xmath29  per cent none of the cluster survives , independently how all other parameters are distributed . at a sfe of @xmath30  per cent",
    "we see that in some simulations we have a few cluster surviving the dissolution and destruction process , following the trends explained above . at a sfe of @xmath31  per cent",
    "we find the obvious result that none of the star clusters gets disrupted .",
    "they are bound enough to survive their gas - expulsion and then the background potential is too strong , i.e.  the clusters have too high encounter velocities , such that the star clusters can not merge .",
    "the surviving star clusters are exclusively found in the very central areas at @xmath106  pc . in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : survive ] we show the surface brightness contours of a simulation , which hosts a surviving sc .",
    "the surviving sc is closely located to the centre .",
    "the simulation has a plummer halo with a large scale - length of @xmath71  kpc .    in the middle panels we see the reason for its survival . in the top",
    "we show its orbit which has an apo - centre of only @xmath80  pc .",
    "the lower panel shows the lagrangian radii of this cluster .",
    "it expands due to the gas expulsion during the first few myr but the expansion is halted and turned around after the sc reached its apo - centre and continued orbiting towards the centre of the halo .",
    "i.e.  particles , which were unbound and expanding get compressed together again .",
    "after the peri - centre passage , which corresponds also with the time , the particles have the smallest extension in space , the outer lagrangian radii are re - expanding . with the @xmath107  per cent radius reaching about @xmath108",
    "pc at the apo - centre of @xmath80  pc , those mass - shells are in reality unbound particles which follow the orbit of the original cluster and are sometimes closer to peri - centre , together with the remaining centre of density of the sc and sometimes they are more distributed along the orbit at apo - centre .",
    "but , the inner mass - shells ( 10 to 20 per cent of the initial mass ) do not expand again after the first peri - centre passage .",
    "they stay at an elevated but constant level and form the surviving sc .    to contrast this findings we show in the right panels the evolution of a dissolving sc .",
    "in the top panel we see its orbit with per- and apo - centre of @xmath51 and @xmath109  kpc respectively .",
    "again , we see an initial expansion due to gas - expulsion in the first few myr ( in the scale of the figure almost invisible ) . then we see an oscillation in the lagrangian radii as well .",
    "but , this oscillation happens on much larger scales and only reflects the fact that we have orbital crowding due to low orbital velocities of unbound particles at apo - centre - therefore we have the minima in the lagrangian radii close to the apo - centres - and very long tidal tails close to peri - centre when the orbital velocities of the particles are high - therefore we see the maxima of the lagrangian radii at or close to peri - centre .",
    "we measure the line - of - sight velocity dispersion for the final objects to compare them with the typical value of about @xmath55  kms@xmath110 observed in classical dsph galaxies @xcite .    to measure the line - of - sight velocity dispersion of our models we consider three different strategies .",
    "first , @xmath111 , where we consider the velocity dispersion of all particles within a projected radius of @xmath55  pc from the centre of the object . the mean value is calculated by considering the mean of the values obtained along all three coordinate axis because the orientation of our objects is unknown .",
    "further we determine the radial profile of the line - of - sight velocity dispersion and fit a plummer law to the data . from this fit",
    "we determine the central value @xmath112 .",
    "finally , we calculate the velocity dispersion of all particles within a projected radius of @xmath9  pc  @xmath113 .",
    "the values of these quantities can be found in tab .  [",
    "tab : vel1 ] . in this section",
    "we will focus on discussing @xmath113 and its relation to the initial parameters .    in the top row of fig .",
    "[ fig : sigma03bin ] we show the dependency of @xmath113 on the initial parameters of our models : @xmath36 , @xmath37 and @xmath38 . in the top left panel we show the dependency on @xmath36 .",
    "as expected , velocity dispersion increases with the mass of the dm halo . as mass ( potential energy )",
    "is related to the square of the velocity ( kinetic energy ) we see this trend in our models as well .",
    "a bit puzzling are the results shown in the middle and right panels .",
    "theory of virial equilibrium predicts that @xmath114 i.e.  the velocity dispersion should decrease with increasing scale - length .",
    "this relation is true using the total dynamical mass ( i.e.  here the mass of the halo ) and the velocity dispersion and scale - length of the tracer population , i.e.  in our case @xmath113 and @xmath67 of the final object . as we have shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : bright ] that @xmath67 increases slightly with @xmath37 and strongly with @xmath38 , we would expect a decreasing trend in @xmath113 with those two parameters as well .",
    "instead we see rather constant values for @xmath113 as function of @xmath38 and even a slight increase ( but within the errors ) as function of @xmath37 .    this behaviour can be explained by an increase of velocity streams at larger scale - lengths , stemming from the dissolved star clusters .",
    "we will discuss these effects in a separate section below . finally , we see no difference between cusped and cored haloes .    for dm haloes with masses of @xmath101  m@xmath7 ,",
    "the velocity dispersion of our final objects have similar values like the ones measured for some classical dsph galaxies @xcite .",
    "for example : carina , leo ii and sextans have velocity dispersions around @xmath115  kms@xmath110 .",
    "this is in fact an interesting result . as @xcite claimed",
    "that almost all dwarfs galaxies should have a minimum dm halo mass of about @xmath26  m@xmath7 within a radius of @xmath116  pc , our models show that we can reach the same velocity dispersions with a lower halo mass .",
    "another consequence of our scenario is , that objects formed in identical haloes can show slightly different velocity dispersions .",
    "otherwise we would have no error - bars attached to our data - points .",
    "the reason for this will become clear with the discussion of the results in the following subsection .    in fig.[fig : vlos ] , we show the line - of - sight velocity dispersion profiles for cusped ( left panels ) and cored ( right panels ) dm haloes for some of our simulations whose @xmath101  m@xmath7 .",
    "these profiles have been obtained considering the mean value of the line - of - sight velocity dispersion within concentric rings of varying radius . from top to bottom , the scale - lengths of the dm haloes are @xmath17 , @xmath16 and @xmath15  kpc , respectively . for both types of dm",
    "haloes the velocity dispersion profiles obtained are always more or less flat .",
    "looking at the outer part of the profiles we observe different types of behavior in the dispersions .",
    "we get outer profiles ( beyond @xmath71  kpc ) where the velocity dispersion falls slowly in some cases , while in others the dispersion stays flat .",
    "we see a similar behavior in the mw dwarf galaxies . in sextans",
    "we see a slight drop in velocity dispersion around 1 kpc , while sculptor , draco and fornax show flat profiles ( see fig .  2 in * ?",
    "in the intermediate part ( 0.1 to 1 kpc ) some of our simulations show wiggles and bumps in the dispersion profile . while the observers always try to fit smooth curves , thus implicitly assuming that any bumps seen in the profiles are merely due to statistical noise , ( e.g. sculptor , draco or carina ) in our formation scenario these wiggles are real features .",
    "these deviations are due to artifacts in velocity space , we dubbed fossil remnants ( see the following section ) . if our formation theory is true , the wiggles in the observed profiles might not be because of errors but they might be real features .",
    "in the central part we see the same behavior as shown in the multitude of mw s dwarf galaxies .",
    "some of our models have colder cores , i.e.  their dispersion profile has a central dip like in sextans or draco @xcite .",
    "other models show a rising central velocity dispersion .",
    "we do not see a similar behaviour with the classical dwarfs spheroidals of the mw .",
    "these results show clearly that our models are well suited to reproduce dsph galaxies .",
    "we reproduce the dynamics of the different dwarfs galaxies with our different models . in our models ,",
    "the bumps in the observed profiles are not simply due to noise in the observed data sets . according to our formation theory they are a natural by - product of the formation scenario proposed in this work .      in fig .",
    "[ fig : overn ] , we show the shape and dynamics of a representative example of our simulations within @xmath9  pc as 2d pixel maps . as we are using more particles than actual stars we are able to produce high resolution 2d pixel maps not only of the surface brightness but also ( as we know exactly the velocities of all particles ) of the internal dynamics of the system .    in the left panels we show the surface brightness of the simulation n015m107rh100rs025s30 with a resolution of @xmath24  pc .",
    "these panels show , clearly , a centrally peaked and smooth density distribution for the luminous component of our final object .",
    "this distribution differs from our fiducial model @xcite , indicating that the number of initial star clusters , can affect the final properties of the dsph galaxies .",
    "however , the fact that a simulation with a lower number of star clusters forms a smoother surface density distribution is not due to some unknown and implausible physical effect , it is simply the result of the strong randomness of our results .",
    "the final details of our models do not only depend on the initial parameters , they are also strongly dependent on the random placements and orbits of the initial star clusters . as we are using only 15 to 60 star clusters in our models ,",
    "it is clear that the detailed results are highly dependent on the random realisation of those few clusters . in the previous sections we tried to overcome this randomness by calculating mean values taken from many simulations of the same type .    in the middle - column of fig .",
    "[ fig : overn ] , we show the line - of - sight velocity dispersion calculated for each pixel separately .",
    "we see regions with cold velocities of around @xmath117  kms@xmath110 in two opposing regions , almost but not perfectly aligned with the major axis of the dwarf . in the outskirts the velocity dispersion increases .",
    "but the distribution of the velocity dispersion is far from being smooth .",
    "one can , clearly , observe substructures that are not present in the surface brightness plots . while the dm halo was able to erase the substructures in position space ,",
    "substructures survive in velocity space .",
    "we refer to these substructures in velocity space , that remain after the formation process of our objects , as fossil remnants. in all of our simulations we observe these substructures in velocity space .    in the right - column panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : overn ] , we show the mean velocity of all particles within a pixel .",
    "these figures show regions of coherent streaming motions with velocity differences of up to @xmath22  kms@xmath110 .",
    "the presence of streaming motions means that there are groups of stars , of dissolved clusters , that are trapped in the potential well of the halo at uniform motion .",
    "it is possible to observe at least two ring - like structures of opposing radial velocities .",
    "this type of scenario has been considered , recently , to explain the velocity distribution of the umi dsph galaxy @xcite .",
    "the reason why we should expect to observe these ring structures , in velocity space , is that the dsph galaxies are faint objects with a low number density of stars , therefore even a few stars on a similar orbit can produce a detectable signal . of further interest",
    "is that the features in the mean velocity do not necessarily coincide with features we see in the dispersion map . in @xcite",
    ", we showed that the boosted velocity dispersions stem from distributions which are highly non - gaussian , because they are in fact the overlay of stars on different orbits of the initial star clusters .",
    "our model shows that ring structures are present even after 10 gyr , and this is physically expected due to the long relaxation times of the stars in dwarf galaxies .",
    "that ring structures are formed from star clusters on more circular orbits , that spread their stars slowly along the orbit . in the case that the star cluster have radial orbits",
    "they will tend to disperse , since they will interact with other clusters in the centre of the halo or with the central cusp .",
    "thus , the ring structure should not be within the central area of the galaxy and should expand during the evolution of the dwarf galaxy .    an important consequence of having streaming motions in dwarf galaxies is the fact that it implies , if not properly taken into account , an overestimation of the velocity dispersion .",
    "this is the reason why we need less dm ( than models which are feature - less and in equilibrium ) in our scenario to explain the velocity dispersions typical of observed dwarf spheroidal galaxies .    to quantify the strength of the streaming motions in the objects , we introduce the @xmath118-parameter :",
    "@xmath119 the advantage is that it shows regions where the deviation of the mean velocity is distinct from zero .",
    "higher values of @xmath118 correspond to regions where the streaming motions are strong .",
    "if no streaming motions are present , the @xmath118-parameter is randomly distributed without correlations .",
    "also it is easily shown by means of basic statistics or monte carlo simulations @xcite that the maximum value of @xmath118 due to random effects only depends on the number of velocities you use to calculate the mean .",
    "random deviations of the calculated mean velocity from the true value due to low number statistics on a three - sigma level lead to @xmath118 values of @xmath120 for @xmath55  stars , @xmath121 for @xmath47  stars and @xmath122 for @xmath5  stars , i.e.  measurements .",
    "as said before we have an over - sampling of particles in our simulations and the pixels in figs .",
    "[ fig : devn ] and [ fig : overn ] contain 300 particles or more .",
    "so all the velocity features we see are real and not due to low numbers . in these high resolution plots we have 300 to 3000 particles in each pixel",
    "so as a conservative number whenever @xmath123 , the streaming motions are real and not due to random sampling .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : devn ] we show the @xmath118 distribution for the same simulation as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : overn ] .",
    "once again a clear sign that we are dealing with coherent motions and not random deviations is that we see regions spanning many pixel showing similar high @xmath118 values .",
    "the imaginary figure eight with low values has no special meaning and is rather a matter of contingency .    the maximum value of @xmath118 found in a single pixel within a region of radius @xmath9  pc we call @xmath124 .",
    "it is a measure of the strength of the velocity deviations in our models and allows us to compare the simulations with each other .",
    "the values are given in tab .",
    "[ tab : vel1 ] .    if we analyse the dependencies of @xmath124 we see in the bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : sigma03bin ] that we have no dependency of this parameter with the mass of the halo ( except maybe that we see less scatter in the results at higher masses ) or with the scale - length of the sc distribution .",
    "we see that the majority of symbols representing cored plummer haloes are above the corresponding nfw haloes meaning that cusped halo profiles seem to be better in erasing kinematical substructure ( i.e.  fossil remnants ) .",
    "but that would imply that we should also see a dependency with the halo scale - length , meaning larger scale - lengths lead to higher values .",
    "this behaviour is not visible in our data , although three out of four data - points for @xmath69  kpc lie above @xmath125 , while for the other scale - lengths only one out of four is above this value .",
    "we also can not identify a dependency on the number of scs as long as the numbers are low ( i.e.  @xmath126 ) .",
    "if we use @xmath127 , we see the lowest value of @xmath124 .",
    "we conclude that we would need to distribute the luminous mass into a real high number of low - mass scs to really see a strong dependency on @xmath20 , meaning that @xmath124 tends to zero , i.e.  is below the stochastic noise .    while we have shown in @xcite",
    "that in reality even with more than 2000 radial velocities observed it is still almost impossible to detect the fossil remnants in low - resolution 2d plots , they have visible counterparts in the 1d bumps and wiggles of the radial profiles . of course we average the high discrepancies out by taking means over a whole radial ring but some small deviations remain visible .",
    "as already pointed out in @xcite these bumps and wiggles are present in the observational data but are regarded as statistical noise as they are smaller than the errors .",
    "we see the same behaviour in our models and these deviations are real .",
    "our initial conditions assume that the star clusters are initially distributed according to a non - rotating plummer profile within the dsph halo . whether this is a realistic assumption or whether we should instead consider an initial distribution with non - zero angular momentum is an open question .",
    "however , we note that the hierarchical merger process through which dsphs acquire their dark matter and gas at high redshift are very violent and it is therefore likely that star formation , when it occurs , takes place before the gas distribution has time to settle into a rotationally supported disc . even if such a disc were to form , observations show that the molecular and atomic gas of disk galaxies generally has velocity dispersions higher than @xmath128  kms@xmath110 @xcite which is taken to indicate the presence of gas turbulence .",
    "given that such turbulent gas velocities are similar to the velocity dispersion in a dsph , any disc which formed would likely have a scale - height to scale - radius of order unity and therefore not be very dissimilar to our assumed spherical initial conditions  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* )    we also note that the leo  t dwarf galaxy has a gas disc which displays negligible rotation and therefore constitutes an example of a system with little or no primordial angular momentum , but sufficient gas to support further star formation .",
    "our models are thus directly relevant for an object such as leo  t , as well as any systems with more spheroidal gas distributions . given that the star clusters in our simulations are initially expanding due to gas expulsion , it is possible that our models would yield dsphs with little or no angular momentum , even if the initial configuration of the clusters were disc - like and contained some angular momentum .",
    "we intend to explore such initial conditions in a future paper .",
    "finally , we note that given the relatively short crossing time within the dsph halo , as well as the low star formation efficiency within the star clusters , the final distribution of the luminous component of our remnants is relatively insensitive to the initial spatial distribution we assume . in particular , plummer profiles do not yield good fits to the final stellar distributions of our final objects , demonstrating that the merger process has erased much of the original configuration .",
    "thus our assumption of a particular form for the distribution of our clusters has little impact on the properties of the dsphs we form .",
    "the question remaining is : are such velocity structures , as predicted by our formation scenario , present and observable in real dsph galaxies . if we have sufficient radial velocity measurements we can calculate similar 2d maps like in our simulations .",
    "we do not expect , in the near future , to have a sufficient pixel - resolution with real observations to see coherent structures , i.e.  many pixels with the same motion next to each other .",
    "but any sign of symmetry of pixels with high @xmath118 would be a good indicator .",
    "if we look at the maximum @xmath118-values obtained in our simulations , we deduce , that as soon as we have observational pixel maps with 50 - 100 stars per pixel almost all the real @xmath118-values from the coherent motions in our simulations should be detectable .",
    "the strongest values of @xmath118 , we detect in our simulations , could even be visible if small enough pixels with 10 - 20 stars only are observed .",
    "since we are considering that the final objects of our models resemble dsph galaxies , and thus that our formation scenario corresponds to the formation scenario of dsph galaxies , it is legitimate to ask if such streaming motions could be present in known dsph galaxies .",
    "some of the classical dsph galaxies of the local group have now more than 2000 radial velocities measured and the first low resolution pixel maps of the velocities should be feasible to produce in the near future .",
    "it is known that ursa major ii and hercules show strong velocity gradients of 7 to 14  kms@xmath110 .",
    "if these measurements are not due to tidal distortion , we estimate that these gradients correspond to values of @xmath129 , which is in accordance with most of the @xmath118-values obtained in our models .    another important point to observe from our results is the fact that low sfe ( sfe @xmath130 30% ) is necessary to obtain our objects .",
    "that is , low sfe lead to subsequent dissolution of the initial star clusters . only in this case",
    "we get sufficiently low phase space densities of the luminous components that resemble dsph galaxies . merging star clusters without expansion always lead to compact objects , even without the presence of a dm halo @xcite .    as mentioned before , there are simulations where some of the initial star clusters survive . in these cases , the star clusters escaped from the dissolution process by experiencing a compressing force in the central region of the halo , allowing the cluster to stay bound .",
    "we find these star clusters on orbits which never leave the central region of the luminous component of the dwarf galaxies .",
    "the survival of the star clusters seems to be completely random in our simulations , that is , it does not seem to depend on the initial parameters @xmath36 , @xmath37 or @xmath38 .",
    "but , we do see more survivors in cored than in cusped haloes .",
    "a flat central density structure seems to act in favour of constructive compression than of destructive tidal forces .",
    "still this mechanism can not explain the presence of globular clusters associated with dsph galaxies like fornax .",
    "we strongly believe that those clusters , outside or in the outer parts of the luminous components , must have formed with high sfes , which allowed them to survive in the first place .",
    "we see this behaviour in our simulations with an artificial high sfe of @xmath31  per cent , in which all of our scs are still present even after @xmath55  gyr of evolution , i.e.  the tidal forces of the dsph galaxy are not sufficient to disrupt those clusters completely ( note , that our code can not model any internal evolution due to two - body effects inside the scs ) .",
    "i.e.  our simulations provide a straightforward solution to why some dsph galaxies have orbiting star clusters and why some ( most ) of them do not .",
    "finally , we have to admit that most of our trends are still based on low number statistics . even though this study is based on more than 60 simulations , using random placements of only 15 or 30 star clusters",
    "can largely affect the outcome of a single simulation .",
    "we would need a much larger sample sizes of simulations for each set of initial parameters to be more confident in our trends .",
    "nevertheless , those trends would still only provide a prediction in a statistical sense and we would be able to deduce the most likely initial parameters of a real dsph galaxy only .",
    "in this work we propose and test a new scenario for the formation of dsph galaxies .",
    "the scenario is based on two standard theories .",
    "we consider that stars never form in isolation but in star clusters which suffer from gas expulsion .",
    "we also base our model on the widely accept @xmath0-cdm cosmological model , where it is assumed that small dm haloes form first .",
    "we propose that the dynamical evolution of star clusters , i.e.  their dissolution due to gas expulsion in the centre of small dm haloes , may explain the formation of classical dsph galaxies . in our scenario",
    "we simulate a dm halo with star clusters inside .",
    "these star clusters have low sfe and , thus , are designed to dissolve inside the dm halo forming the luminous components of the dsph galaxy .",
    "we follow the evolution of the star clusters within the dm halo for @xmath55 gyr and measure the properties of the objects formed .    in this work",
    "we perform an investigation of the vast possible parameter space and study how the morphology , luminosity and velocity space of the final objects are affected by the initial conditions of the simulations . in our experiments",
    "we take cusped and cored dm haloes into account , and study , for each type of dm halo , how different mass distributions , number of interacting star clusters , sfes star formation efficiencies and initial distributions of the interacting star clusters can affect the formation process of the dsph galaxies .    regarding the light distribution we see the following trends in our simulations : a decrease of effective surface brightness with larger halo scale - lengths and an increase of the effective radius of the luminous component with increasing scale - length of the initial sc- and/or gas - distribution .",
    "we can identify two rule by thumbs . to reach similar low brightnesses as seen in carina , draco and scupltor our models favour larger scale - lengths of the halo , i.e.  @xmath131  pc .",
    "another trend is that the effective radius of the luminous object is almost twice as large as the initial scale - length of the sc distribution .",
    "even though our model starts out initially very clumpy , i.e.  the stars are distributed in star clusters , we obtain smooth models at the end of the evolution .",
    "even though relaxation times are long , the stars settle into a more or less smooth object . of",
    "course we find that cored haloes are better in preserving some clumpiness than cusped haloes .",
    "the objects have internal structures within @xmath9  pc that have an observable luminosity comparable to the luminosity of dsph galaxies .",
    "they also have similar morphological parameters .",
    "one interesting result from our simulations is that even 10  gyr of evolution is not enough to destroy all substructures that stem from the formation process of our models .    even though we start out with spherical distributions of the star clusters our final luminous object has ellipticities similar to those observed with the classical dwarf galaxies .",
    "again , we see a trend that larger scale - lengths of the haloes lead to higher ellipticities .    in velocity space ,",
    "the final objects have overall properties similar to typical classical dsph galaxies .",
    "we show that the velocity dispersions are around @xmath128@xmath55  kms@xmath110 for halo masses of @xmath132  m@xmath7 and that the velocity dispersion profiles do not fall sharply at large radii , which is an indication of dm dominated objects as it is the case of dsph galaxies .    as a final result",
    ", we observe in the velocity space of our models some fossil remnants of the formation process , that give predictions for dynamical observations that could be used for validating our scenario about the formation of the dsph galaxies .",
    "we show the existence of streaming motions even after 10  gyr of evolution , irrespective of halo mass , shape or scale - length . with the larger - than - life resolution we have in our simulations , we can visualise these streams in form of 2d - contour plots of the dispersion and the mean velocity .",
    "observationally , this is still impossible .",
    "but , we show that these velocity deviations are still visible , if averaged in radial bins .",
    "then , these deviations produce wiggles and bumps in the profile , similar to the observed profiles of the classical dwarfs .",
    "+ * acknowledgments : * pa thanks the support of conicyt phd scholarship , basal pfb-06/2007 , proyecto fondap 15010003 and the travel grant mecesup - fsm0605 .",
    "we also thank w. dehnen for his help with the nfw profiles and p. kroupa for enlightening discussions .",
    "mf acknowledges financial support of fondecyt grant nos .",
    "1095092 and 1130521 and basal pfb-06/2007 .",
    "miw acknowledges the royal society for support .",
    "rs acknowledges financial support of fondecyt grant no .",
    "3120135 .    99    aarseth s.j . , henon m. , wielen r. 1974 , a&a , 37 , 183    assmann p. , fellhauer m. , wilkinson m i. , smith r. 2012 , mnras accepted    battaglia g. , helmi a. , tolstoy e. , irwin m. , hill v. , jablonka p. 2008",
    ", apj , 681 , l13    battaglia g. , tolstoy e. , helmi a. , irwin m. , parisi p. , hill v. , jablonka p. 2011",
    ", mnras , 411 , 1013    bellazzini m. , ferraro f.r . ,",
    "pancino e. , 2001 , mnras , 327 , l15    bellazzini m. , fusi pecci f. , ferraro f.r . , 1996 , mnras , 279 , 337    belokurov v. , zucker d.b . , evans n.w . , wilkinson m.i .",
    ", irwin m.j . , hodgkin s. , bramich d.m . ,",
    "irwin j.m . , gilmore g. , willman b. , vidrih s. , newberg h.j . ,",
    "wyse r.f.g .",
    ", fellhauer m. , hewett p.c . ,",
    "cole n. , bell e.f . , beers t.c .",
    ", rockosi c.m . , yanny b. , grebel e.k . , schneider d.p . , lupton r. , barentine j.c . , brewington h. , brinkmann j. , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j .",
    ", krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , smith j.a . ,",
    "snedden , s.a .",
    "2006 , apj , 647 , l111    belokurov v. , zucker d.b .",
    ", evans n.w .",
    ", kleyna j.t . , koposov s. , hodgkin s.t . , irwin m.j . , gilmore g. , wilkinson m.i . , fellhauer m. , bramich d.m . , hewett p.c",
    ", vidrih s. , de jong j.t.a .",
    ", smith j.a . , rix h .- w . , bell e.f . ,",
    "wyse r.f.g . ,",
    "newberg h.j .",
    ", mayeur p.a .",
    ", yanny b. , rockosi c.m .",
    ", gnedin o.y .",
    ", schneider d.p . , beers t.c .",
    ", barentine j.c . , brewington h. , brinkmann j. , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j .",
    ", krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , snedden , s.a .",
    "2007 , apj , 654 , 897    bender r. , dbereiner s. , mllenhoff c. 1988 , a&as , 74 , 385    binney j. , tremaine s. , galactic dynamics ( princeton : princeton univ . press )    bressert e. , bastian n. , gutermuth r. , megeath s.t . , allen l. , evans n.j.ii , rebull l.m . , hatchell j. , johnstone d. , bourke t.l . ,",
    "cieza l.a . , harvey p.m. , merin b. , ray t.p . , tothill n.f.h .",
    "2010 , mnras , 409 , l54    caon n. , capaccioli m. , donofrio m. 1993 , mnras , 265 , 1013    cole d. , dehnen w. , read j. , wilkinson m.i .",
    "2012 , mnras , 426 , 601    coleman m. , da costa g. s. , bland - hawthorn j. , martnez delgado d. , freeman k. c. , malin d. 2004 , aj , 127 , 832    coleman m. g. , da costa g. s. , bland - hawthorn j. , freeman k. c. 2005 , aj , 129 , 1443    conselice c.j .",
    "2003 , apjs , 143 , 1    dehnen w. , mclaughlin d.e .",
    "2005 , mnras , 363 , 1057    del popolo , a. , 2012 , mnras , 419 , 971    donghia e. , besla g. , cox t. , hernquist l. 2009 , nature , 460 , 605    einasto j. , saar e. , kaasik a. , chernin a.d .",
    "1974 , nature , 252 , 111    faber s.m .",
    ", lin d.n.c . 1983 , apj , 266 , l17    fall s.m .",
    "2006 , apj , 652 , 1129    fellhauer m. , kroupa p. , baumgardt h. , bien r. , boily c.m . , spurzem r. , wassmer n. 2000 , new ast . , 5 , 305    fellhauer m. , kroupa p. 2002",
    ", mnras , 330 , 642    fellhauer m. 2012 , baaa , 54 , 155    gilmore , g. , wilkinson , m. , kleyna , j. , koch , a. , evans , w. , wyse , r. f. g. , grebel , e. k. 2007 , nuclear physics b proceedings supplements , 173 , 15    gnedin o.y . , hernquist l. , ostriker j.p .",
    "1999 , aj , 514 , 109    goerdt , t. , moore , b. , read , j. i. , stadel , j. , zemp , m. 2006 , mnras , 368 , 1073    grcevich j. , putman m. e. , 2009 , apj , 696 , 385    irwin m. , hatzidimitriou d. 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1354    irwin m.j . , belokurov v. , evans n.w . , ryan - weber e.v .",
    ", de jong j.t.a . , koposov s. , zucker d.b . ,",
    "hodgkin s.t .",
    ", gilmore g. , prema p. , hebb l. , begum a. , fellhauer m. , hewett p.c .",
    ", kennicutt r.c.jr . ,",
    "wilkinson m.i . ,",
    "bramich d.m .",
    ", vidrih s. , rix h .- w . , beers t.c .",
    ", barentine j.c . , brewington h. , harvanek m. , krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , snedden s.a .",
    "2007 , apj , 656 , l13    jerjen h. , binggeli b. , freeman k. c. 2000 , aj , 119 , 593    kazantzidis s. , lokas e.l . , callegari s. , mayer l. , moustakas l.a .",
    "2011 , apj , 726 , 98    khochfar s. , burkert a. 2005 , mnras , 359 , 1379    kleyna j.t . ,",
    "wilkinson m.i . , gilmore g. , evans n.w . 2003 , apj , 588 , l21    kleyna j.t . , wilkinson m.i .",
    ", evans n.w . ,",
    "gilmore g. 2004 , mnras , 354 , l66    klimentowski j. , lokas e.l .",
    ", kazantzidis s. , mayer l. , mamon , g.a .",
    "2009 , mnras , 397 , 2015    kormendy j. , bender r. , 2012 , aj,198 , 2 kravtsov a.v .",
    ", gnedin o.y . ,",
    "klypin a.a .",
    "2004 , apj , 609 , 482    lada c.j . , lada e.a .",
    "2003 , ara&a , 41 , 57    mcconnachie a. , irwin m. , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 1263    mcgaugh s.s . , schombert j.m .",
    ", de blok w.j.g . , zagursky m.j .",
    "2010 , apj , 708 , l14    mackey a.d . , gilmore g.f .",
    "2003 , mnras , 340 , 175    majewski s. , frinchaboy , p.m. , kunkel w.e . , link r. , munoz r.r .",
    ", ostheimer j.c . , palma c. , patterson r.j .",
    ", geisler d. 2005 , aj , 130 , 2677    martin n.f . ,",
    "de jong j.t.a . , rix h .- w .",
    "2008 , apj , 684 , 1075    mayer l. , governato f. , colpi m. , moore b. , quinn t. , wadsley j. , stadel j. , lake g. 2001 , apj , 559 , 754    mayer , l. , mastropietro , c. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , moore , b. 2006 , mnras , 369 , 1021    mayer l. , kazantzidis s. , mastropiero c. , wadsley j. 2007 , nature , 445 , 738    mateo m.l .",
    "1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435    metz m. , kroupa p. , jerjen h. 2007 , mnras , 374 , 1125    munoz r.r . , frinchaboy , p.m. , majewski s. , kuhn j.r . , chou m. , palma c. , sohn s.t . ,",
    "patterson r.j .",
    ", siegel m.h .",
    "2005 , apj , 631 , l137    munoz r.r . , geha m. , willman b. 2010 , aj , 140 , 138    navarro j.f .",
    ", frank c.s . , white s.d.m .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 493 plummer h.c . 1911 ,",
    "mnras , 71 , 460    read j.i . ,",
    "pontzen a.p .",
    ", viel m. 2006 , mnras , 371 , 885 read j.i .",
    ", wilkinson m. i. , evans n. w. , gilmore g. , kleyna j. t. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 387    ryan - weber e.  v. , begum a. , oosterloo t. , pal s. , irwin m.  j. , belokurov v. , evans n.  w. , zucker d.  b. , 2008 , mnras , 384 , 535    sand d.j . , olszewski e.w . , willman b. , zaritsky d. , seth a. , harris j. , piatek s. , saha a. 2009 , apj , 704 , 898    sand d.j . , seth a. , olszewski e.w . , willman b. , zaritsky d. , kallivayalil n. 2010 , apj , 718 , 530    sakamoto t. , hasegawa t. , 2006 , astrophys .",
    "j. lett . , 653 , l29    simon j.d , geha m. , 2007 , apj , 670 , 313    stark , a. a. , brand , j. , 1989 , apj , 339 , 763    tamburro d. , rix h .- w . , leroy a. k. , et al . , 2009 ,",
    "aj,137 , 4424    tutukov a.v . , 1978 ,",
    "a&a , 70,57    walcher c.j . , fried j.w . ,",
    "burkert a. , klessen r.s .",
    "2003 , a&a , 406 , 847    walker m.g . , mateo m. , olszewski e.w .",
    ", pal j.k . , sen b. , woodroofe m. 2006 , apj , 642 , l41    walker m.g . , mateo m. , olszewski e.w . , gnedin o.y . ,",
    "wang x. , bodhisattva s. , woodroofe m. 2007 , apj , 667 , l53    walker m.g . ,",
    "pearrubia , apj , 742 , 20 whitmore b.c . , zhang q. , leitherer c. , fall s.m .",
    ", schweizer f. , miller b.w . 1999 ,",
    "aj , 118 , 1551    willman b. , dalcanton j.j .",
    ", martinez - delgado d. , west a.a . ,",
    "blanton m.r .",
    ", hogg d.w .",
    ", barentine j.c . ,",
    "brewington h.j . , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j . , krzesinski j. , long d. , neilsen e.h.jr . ,",
    "nitta a. , snedden s.a .",
    "2005 , apj , 626 , l85    wilkinson m.i . , kleyna j. , evans n.w . , gilmore g. 2002 , mnras , 330 , 778    zucker d.b . , belokurov v. , evans n.w . , wilkinson m.i .",
    ", irwin m.j . , sivarani t. , hodgkin s. , bramich d.m . , irwin j.m . , gilmore g. , willman b. , vidrih s. , fellhauer m. , hewett p.c . , beers",
    "t.c . , bell e.f . , grebel e.k",
    ". , schneider d.p . , newberg h.j .",
    ", wyse r.f.g .",
    ", rockosi c.m . , yanny b. , lupton r. , smith j.a . , barentine j.c . , brewington h. , brinkmann j. , harvanek m. , kleinman s.j .",
    ", krzesinski j. , long d. , nitta a. , snedden s.a .",
    "2006 , apj , 643 , l103",
    ".table summarizing the initial parameters of our simulations . in the first column",
    "we give a running number which we use in the following tables . in the second column",
    "we give the name of each simulation according to the rule introduced in table  [ tab : conf ] .",
    "the third column shows what type of dm profile is used ; p stands for a plummer profile and n for a nfw halo .",
    "the fourth and fifth columns show the mass of the dm halo within @xmath9  pc ( @xmath36 ) and the total mass @xmath133 out to the virial radius , respectively . in case of a plummer profile",
    "the latter is the cut - off radius .",
    "the sixth column shows the scale - length of the halo @xmath37 ; in case of a plummer profile this is the plummer radius .",
    "the seventh column gives the virial radii for the nfw haloes or the cut - off radii of the plummer distribution . in case of the plummer profile",
    "the halo is truncated at five plummer radii .",
    "the concentration parameter @xmath134 is only given for nfw haloes .",
    "the last three columns show the number of initial star clusters @xmath20 , the scale - length ( i.e.  plummer radius ) of the distribution of star clusters @xmath38 and finally the star formation efficiency sfe used for each of the star clusters . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> dwarf spheroidal ( dsph ) galaxies are considered the basic building blocks of the galaxy formation process in the @xmath0cdm ( lambda cold dark matter ) hierarchical cosmological model . </S>",
    "<S> these galaxies are believed to be the most dark matter ( dm ) dominated systems known , have the lowest stellar content , and are poor in gas . </S>",
    "<S> many theories attempt to explain the formation of dsph galaxies resorting to the fact that these galaxies are mainly found orbiting large galaxies or invoking other mechanisms of interactions . here </S>",
    "<S> we show the full set of simulation as an extension of our fiducial model , where we study the formation of classical dsph galaxies in isolation by dissolving star clusters within the dm halo of the dwarf galaxy . in our parameter survey </S>",
    "<S> we adopt cored and cusped dm halo profiles and consider different numbers of dissolving star clusters . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the dependency of observable quantities with different masses and scale - lengths of the dm halo and different star formation efficiencies ( sfe ) . we find that our proposed scenario explains many features of the classical dsph galaxies of the milky way , like their morphology and their dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> we see trends how the surface brightness and the scale - length of the luminous component vary with the parameters of our simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we also identify how irregularities in their shape , i.e.  clumpiness and ellipticity vary in our simulations . in velocity space </S>",
    "<S> , we identify the parameters leading to flat velocity dispersions curves . </S>",
    "<S> we recognize kinematically cold substructures in velocity space , named fossil remnants and stemming from our unique initial conditions , which alter the expected results . </S>",
    "<S> these streaming motions are considered as a key feature for future observation with high resolution to validate our scenario .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : dwarfs  galaxies : star clusters  methods : n - body simulations </S>"
  ]
}