{
  "article_text": [
    "it is well known since the 1960s that solar prominences and filaments show oscillations ( see * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "many of these oscillatory motions have been classified as large - amplitude oscillations .",
    "a clear example of these kind of oscillations are the global motions found in winking filaments .",
    "these global oscillations are normally induced by nearby sub - flares or jets , eit waves and moreton waves .",
    "the reader is referred to @xcite for a review about observations of large amplitude oscillations in prominences .",
    "the mhd eigenmodes of oscillation of prominences in simple geometries as cartesian slabs and cylindrical magnetic tubes , have been studied in the past by many authors ( see the reviews of * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these studies have focused on small amplitude oscillations using the linearized version of the mhd equations .",
    "only recently , @xcite have attempted to understand localized mhd oscillations in more realistic configurations .",
    "the aim of our work is to study global oscillations using improved prominence models which are numerically constructed using a relaxation method . at this stage",
    "we are not interested on the internal fine structure of prominences and our focus is mainly on the global behavior and the possible link with winking filaments .",
    "an issue that arises in complex magnetic topologies under the presence of gravity is stability .",
    "here we conduct an mhd stability study that enables us to understand the stable / unstable nature of quiescent prominences .",
    "the stability analysis is not simple .",
    "a method to study the stability properties of the new equilibria is to compute the full ideal or resistive mhd spectrum by solving the linearized mhd equations .",
    "another alternative is to consider the time dependent problem by solving the nonlinear or the linearized mhd equations .",
    "this last approach , successfully used in the past in linear stability analysis of , for example , coronal arcades ( see * ? ? ? * ) , is adopted in the present work .",
    "there are other possibilities such as as the variational or energy method ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) which is based on the minimization of the second order change in the potential energy of the system when plasma elements are displaced from their equilibrium position .",
    "another alternative is to use magneto - frictional methods ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) based on the assumption that field lines move through a stationary medium .",
    "this method has been successfully used in the determination of non - linear force - free coronal field in response to the evolution of the photospheric magnetic field ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it is worth to mention that @xcite performed a detailed numerical stability analysis of two - dimensional prominence models based on known analytical mhs solutions at that time ( kippenhahn - schlter , dungey , menzel and lerche & low models ) .",
    "however , the connection of the prominence magnetic field with the photospheric magnetic field was essentially missing in his analysis . in this work",
    ", we properly address this point , which turns to be very relevant regarding the stability of prominences .",
    "later , @xcite demonstrated that the model of @xcite is unstable to localized disturbances and that the @xcite model is only stable for sufficiently low prominences .    in the literature",
    "many prominence models have been proposed ( see the review of * ? ? ?",
    "a popular model is the magnetic flux rope configuration . using this configuration @xcite found analytical solutions using a polytropic model in a circular cylinder",
    "whose weight is supported by an external magnetic field .",
    "later , @xcite demonstrated how to numerically calculate magnetohydrostatic equilibria with properties close to realistic prominences , namely a cool dense prominence surrounded by a cavity within a flux rope in a coronal environment .",
    "@xcite solved an extended grad - shafranov equation , and using a finite element - based code were able to obtain numerical equilibria .",
    "@xcite used these equilibria to analyze the continuous spectrum of modes of the structure .",
    "these authors focused on the modes of the core of the prominence rather than on the modes of the global structure since the 2d flux rope considered in their studies does not curve down and meet the photosphere ( a 3d model is required to fulfill this condition in flux rope models ) .    in this work",
    "we avoid geometries with detached magnetic field lines , i.e. , we study configurations with all field lines tied to the lower boundary .",
    "detached models are usually considered in the study of 2d twisted flux rope prominence models .",
    "we prefer to concentrate on configurations that connect magnetic field lines to the photosphere .",
    "this can be also achieved considering twisted flux ropes in 3d and using , for example , toroidal geometries .",
    "nevertheless , we think that it is more convenient to start with the investigation of the 2d problem rather than with the full 3d problem , which is also more complicated from the technical point of view . additionally , we want to address the role of magnetic dips in the structure and also the dynamics of prominences .",
    "for this reason , we chose a topology which includes magnetic dips that are able to provide suitable conditions to support the cool plasma against gravity ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the purpose of this paper is first to construct prominence models by computing magnetohydrostatic ( mhs ) solutions of the mhd equations .",
    "we seek for prominence models that are bounded in the 2d plane and have a cool core respect to the external coronal environment , meaning that the structure is non - isothermal .",
    "we focus our attention on models that describe both the prominence and the surrounding coronal environment under the presence of gravity . here",
    "the prominence model is constructed using a relaxation process instead of the direct solution of the grad - shafranov equation .",
    "mass is injected on an initial background equilibrium and the system is allowed to evolve towards a new equilibrium .",
    "we are not aiming to study the formation process itself .",
    "instead , we are interested on the final mhs solution .",
    "the second goal of this work is to study the properties of mhd waves in the numerically generated prominence models .",
    "the time - dependent problem is solved numerically .",
    "an initial perturbation is introduced in the system and it excites different kinds of oscillations which might be stable or unstable .",
    "the primary equilibrium is an isothermal stratified atmosphere permeated by a force - free magnetic field .",
    "using a cartesian coordinate system , with the @xmath0coordinate pointing in the vertical direction , the density profile is @xmath1 where @xmath2 is the density scale height and @xmath3 is the coronal density value at the reference level @xmath4 representing the photosphere or base of the corona .",
    "the sound speed , defined as @xmath5 , takes a value of @xmath6 for a coronal temperature of @xmath7 .",
    "the gravity acceleration on the solar surface is @xmath8 and for a monoatomic gas @xmath9 .",
    "hereafter , we choose a spatial reference length of @xmath10 ( the typical length of prominences ) meaning that the density scale height is @xmath11 .    the initial potential force - free magnetic field considered in this work is based on superposition of arcade solutions .",
    "the arcade configuration has the following magnetic field components @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the magnetic field strength at the reference level .",
    "the parameter @xmath14 is related to the lateral extension of the arcade ( @xmath15 ) and is also a measure of the vertical magnetic scale height .",
    "the @xmath16 component is zero in the present work .",
    "the magnetic field lines in the configuration given by eqs .",
    "( [ bxp])-([bzp ] ) do not have any dips because the magnetic structure is bipolar .",
    "since we are interested in a configuration with dips for the reasons explained in the introduction , we select a particular superposition of two magnetic arcades that mimics a quadrupolar configuration @xmath17 the individual arcade solutions are quoted with the sub - indices 1 and 2 .",
    "the width of the full structure is @xmath18 and we select the following wavenumbers @xmath19 and @xmath20 .",
    "the strength of the magnetic field at @xmath4 of each arcade is @xmath21 ( @xmath22 ) and @xmath23 ( @xmath22 ) . from the superposition of the two configurations it is easy to show that at @xmath4 the total magnetic field has a maximum value at @xmath24 of @xmath25 .",
    "an example of the magnetic configuration for the case @xmath26 is shown in fig .",
    "[ magneticfield ] . at the center of the magnetic configuration ( @xmath27 )",
    "there is an @xmath28point where the magnetic field in the @xmath29plane is zero . in the example of fig .",
    "[ magneticfield ] the location of this point is at @xmath4 . in general",
    ", it can be shown that the height of the @xmath28point is @xmath30 in this work we always impose that the @xmath28 point is at the photospheric level meaning that @xmath26 .    the alfvn speed , @xmath31 , is easily computed given the magnetic field configuration ( eqs .",
    "( [ bx])-([bz ] ) ) and the density profile ( eq .  ( [ dens0 ] ) ) . for normalization purposes",
    "the alfvn speed is normalized to the maximum value at @xmath4 and @xmath24 , and it is referred here as @xmath32 . another useful magnitude is the plasma-@xmath33 defined as @xmath34 and represented in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ plasmabeta ] for the magnetic structure of fig .",
    "[ magneticfield ] . since in this case",
    "the field is strictly zero at the @xmath28point , the plasma-@xmath33 tends to infinity at @xmath35 . from fig .",
    "[ plasmabeta ] we see that the plasma-@xmath33 is less than one in most of the spatial domain .",
    "the prominence body will be located around @xmath27 and @xmath36 .      to obtain a model resembling a real prominence",
    "a dense and cool plasma is required . in the present work",
    "we are not concerned about the actual physical process that provides mass to the prominence during its formation . instead , here we are interested in finding an equilibrium configuration for the prominence and we do not care about the actual process that drives the formation ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for recent results about the formation process ) .",
    "a simple way to generate the body of the prominence is to add mass at a given location in the preexisting magnetic configuration .",
    "we model the mass injection by artificially adding a source term in the continuity equation .",
    "this term has the following form @xmath37 the parameter @xmath38 represents the rate of mass injection and @xmath39 is the total injection time .",
    "for @xmath40 the source term is set to zero .",
    "the parameters @xmath41 and @xmath42 represent the characteristic spatial size of the source in the @xmath43 and @xmath0directions respectively .",
    "the central point of the injection is located at @xmath27 and @xmath44 .    from eq .",
    "( [ source ] ) it is straight forward to calculate the total mass injected in the system .",
    "note that the configuration studied in this work is two - dimensional and thus unbounded in the @xmath45direction .",
    "for this reason it is more convenient to calculate the total mass of the prominence per unit length , @xmath46 .",
    "after the injection phase we have that @xmath47 from observations it is possible to roughly estimate the total mass of a real prominence .",
    "the length along the main axis is usually a known parameter . for a real prominence",
    "it can be shown that @xmath48 .",
    "to get this value we have used a typical prominence density of @xmath49 , while for the spatial dimensions we chose that the width is @xmath50 , the height is @xmath51 , and its length ( @xmath52 ) is around @xmath51 . in our computations",
    "we use the length @xmath10 , already introduced before , as the reference length .",
    "another important parameter in our model is the size of the arcade ( @xmath18 ) that provides the magnetic support .",
    "we assume , based on observations , that the typical length of the magnetic field lines are of the order of @xmath53 . for a given value of @xmath46 and size of the prominence ( @xmath41 and @xmath42 ) the product of @xmath38 and @xmath39",
    "is determined using eq .",
    "( [ totalmass ] ) . from the practical point of view",
    "we fix the parameter @xmath39 and calculate @xmath38 for a given prominence mass and size .",
    "the reference time - scale in this work is defined as @xmath54 which for @xmath55 and @xmath56 is around @xmath57 .",
    "using the initial background model , explained in section [ backequil ] , the injection of mass is performed employing the specific profile described in section [ inject ] .",
    "the nonlinear ideal mhd equations are advanced in time numerically using the code molmhd ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for details about the numerical method ) .",
    "the source term included in the continuity equation provides the mass required to generate a prominence model .",
    "it is important to mention that although the full nonlinear equations are solved we only evolve in time perturbations on the background magnetic field ( see * ? ? ?",
    "it turns out that this numerical technique is crucial to obtain new magnetohydrostatic models for low plasma-@xmath33 problems .",
    "boundary conditions are treated using a decomposition in characteristic variables at the edge of the computational domain .",
    "the different fields are recalculated at the boundary by imposing conditions on the incoming fields .",
    "line - tying conditions , applied at @xmath4 , meaning that incoming fields are set to be equal to outgoing fields . for the rest of the domain ,",
    "flow - through conditions are applied imposing that incoming fields are set to zero .",
    "different sizes of the domain in the @xmath43 and @xmath0directions have been considered but we have found that the results do not significantly depend on the extension of the computational domain . the use of conditions on the characteristic fields ensured minimal reflections from the lateral and top edges of the domain , and perfect reflection at the bottom of the computational box . moreover , in order to obtain solutions that are close to the static stationary state for some specific cases we have used the decomposition in characteristic variables to eliminate perturbations in the system . in particular , we have found that imposing flow - through conditions only on slow mhd modes and on the entropy mode helps the system to relax faster to the stationary state . in this case ,",
    "line - tying conditions have been applied to fast and alfvn mhd waves at @xmath4 .",
    "a linearized version of the code has been also used in the study of linear mhd waves .",
    "we have found that in this case it is not necessary to use decomposition in characteristic fields at the boundaries since simple reflection conditions at the photosphere and flow - through conditions at the lateral and top edges perform well .",
    "the simulations have been carried out using grids of typically @xmath58 points in the @xmath43 and @xmath0directions .",
    "we have found that the results converge if the resolution is raised above the previous numbers .",
    "the code molmhd runs in parallel using mpi and the computational facilities of the solar physics group at uib have been used to perform the simulations .",
    "the simulation time for a run with 32 processors is around 2 hours .",
    "we start by analyzing the results of the simulations , and we concentrate first on the maximum density in the system localized at the center of the prominence core . for the present case the location of this maximum is not far from the center of the mass deposition ( located at @xmath27 and @xmath44 ) but for configurations with higher @xmath33 the maximum is located at lower heights .",
    "the results are plotted in fig .",
    "[ graph3 ] ( see continuous curve ) .",
    "the maximum density grows smoothly with time due to the source term in the continuity equation .",
    "this source term is set to zero for @xmath40 ( @xmath59 in the present case ) . at this stage @xmath60",
    "shows an almost constant value , suggesting that the system has reached or it is very close to a new equilibrium state .",
    "the maximum velocities , not shown here , are also rather small in the whole computational domain , typically of the order of @xmath61 .    in the example shown in fig .",
    "[ graph3 ] we have not eliminated the reflection of slow mhd waves at @xmath4 .",
    "therefore , oscillations in @xmath60 after the injection phase are mainly due to the excitation of small - amplitude slow mhd waves . in fig .",
    "[ graph3 ] the results of a case with @xmath62 and @xmath63 are also displayed ( dashed line ) . according to eq .",
    "( [ totalmass ] ) the mass per unit length of the prominence is the same for the two simulations . from fig .",
    "[ graph3 ] we see that now the oscillatory behavior has a larger amplitude , indicating a stronger back reaction of the system to the newly added mass .",
    "a fast mass injection produces a more complex relaxation of the configuration , since mhd waves with higher amplitudes are excited in the system .",
    "these oscillations are related to the eigenmodes of the configuration and will be studied later . as we are not intending to model the prominence formation itself we choose the parameter @xmath64 in such a way that we get to the stationary state without large amplitude oscillations involved in the transient phase .    in fig .",
    "[ denstemp ] , top panel , the two - dimensional density distribution is plotted at a fixed time ( @xmath65 ) in a reduced spatial domain of @xmath66 .",
    "the injected mass has been redistributed in the structure and the system is close to a new equilibrium , as fig .",
    "[ graph3 ] already indicates . for this particular simulation",
    "the total mass per unit length is around @xmath67 and it is of the same order as the reference value given in section [ inject ] . during the relaxation process",
    "the gas pressure has changed and the lorentz and gravitational forces have been adapted to the newly added mass . for comparison with the initial magnetic field ,",
    "we overplot in fig .",
    "[ magneticfield ] the new magnetic field configuration ( dashed curves ) .",
    "the deformation of magnetic field lines is clear . due to the presence of the heavy prominence",
    "the magnetic field has been pushed down mostly at the location of the enhanced density .",
    "the deformation of the magnetic structure is not big , but enough to support , together with the pressure force , the prominence .",
    "the dense material produces a depression in the alfvn and sound speeds .",
    "note that the generated prominence is bounded in the @xmath0direction from below and from above , a feature that is not easily implemented in theoretical models , with the exception of @xcite who presented numerical examples of 2d quiescent prominences with normal polarity modeled by a cool isothermal slab of finite width and height .",
    "the details about the distribution of the forces in the vertical direction when the system is close to an equilibrium are displayed in fig .",
    "[ forces ] . in this figure",
    "the different forces involved in the system are plotted as function of height at the center of the prominence ( @xmath27 ) . for comparison purposes we have also included the initial configuration ( top panel ) , characterized by a balance between the pressure gradient and the gravity force .",
    "the initial magnetic configuration is force - free and there is a balance between the magnetic tension and the gradient of the magnetic pressure . the final distribution of the forces after the mass injection is displayed in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ forces ] . at the center of the prominence ( around @xmath68 ) the gravitational force",
    "is very strong due to the presence of the dense material .",
    "this downward force is balanced essentially by the upward lorentz force , while the pressure gradient is still small .",
    "the lorentz force is mostly due to the tension term but the magnetic pressure term has also a contribution to the total magnetic force ( around 20@xmath69 in fig .",
    "[ forces ] ) . just below the prominence body tension and magnetic pressure forces",
    "are still larger than in the initial state , since the prominence has pushed down the magnetic configuration increasing the depth of the dips of the structure .",
    "the distribution of the forces in the horizontal direction is represented in fig .",
    "[ forceshor ] .",
    "initially ( top panel ) the total lorentz force is zero and since gas pressure is constant in the horizontal direction the pressure gradient is also zero . once the mass has been injected the magnetic pressure gradient and the gas pressure gradient change inside the prominence in such a way that they balance each other .    the temperature at the center of the prominence after the mass injection is much lower than the initial temperature , while the gas pressure at the center of the prominence does not change much with respect to the initial value , around @xmath70 ( see the temperature and density distribution in fig .  [ graph5 ] ) .",
    "this can be understood from the behavior of the gas pressure , if pressure is essentially constant at the center of the prominence then the dense part of the prominence must be cooler than the light and hot coronal environment since @xmath71 .",
    "the temperature profile is not imposed in the simulations and is self - adjusted during the injection phase .",
    "a cut of the density , temperature , and pressure across @xmath68 is plotted in fig .",
    "[ graph5 ] top panel . in this simulation",
    "the density reaches a maximum value around 95 times the coronal density while the temperature should have , according to the previous expression , a minimum value around 100 times lower than the coronal temperature .",
    "the exact value for the temperature minimum at the core of the prominence is @xmath72 which is of the same order of the temperatures typically inferred from observations . in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ graph5 ] the variation of density , temperature , and pressure is plotted as a function of height .",
    "the density enhancement representing the prominence is superimposed to the exponentially decreasing profile of the background model .",
    "the size of the prominence core and the corresponding pctr is determined by the form of the source term and the parameters @xmath41 and @xmath42 .",
    "note that in the present model we ignore the effect of thermal conduction , which may have an important impact on the shape of the pctr .",
    "effects due to radiative processes are also neglected in the present model .",
    "although the initial magnetic field is potential the extra mass added to the system makes the configuration non - potential . in fig .",
    "[ graph6 ] the current density in the @xmath45direction is displayed .",
    "this variable peaks at the core of the prominence and reflects the fact that now the magnetic field distribution has been modified .",
    "it is interesting to note that the distribution of the current is very similar to the density distribution ( compare fig .",
    "[ graph6 ] and and top panel of fig .",
    "[ denstemp ] ) .",
    "a change in the strength of the magnetic field produces a different final equilibrium . in fig .",
    "[ denstemp ] bottom panel , density , temperature and magnetic field distribution are plotted for a plasma-@xmath33 two times larger than that of the case shown in the top panel .",
    "now the deformation of the field inside the prominence is more pronounced since the alfvn speed is @xmath73 times smaller , meaning that tension and magnetic pressure forces are weaker .",
    "the injected mass is able to strongly modify the magnetic field configuration producing a magnetic structure more curved at the core of the prominence .",
    "in fact , the center of the core of the prominence is located at a lower height in comparison with the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ denstemp ] .",
    "the density at the core of the prominence is also larger .",
    "the process of relaxation to this configuration lasts longer than that for the lower @xmath33 case .",
    "we have performed other experiments changing the plasma-@xmath33 and found that for high values of this parameter very strong shock waves are generated , indicating that the initial configuration is still far from an equilibrium state .",
    "it is easier to obtain a new equilibrium if the plasma-@xmath33 is low .",
    "this is in agreement with the the recent work of @xcite ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "another relevant parameter in the models is the length of the arcade ( @xmath74 ) in which the prominence is embedded . in fig .",
    "[ fieldlines_l ] the magnetic field lines crossing the center of the body of the prominence are plotted for two different values of @xmath75 . in this example",
    "the large arcade is three times wider than the short arcade .",
    "we have considered that @xmath75 is in the rage @xmath76 in this work . for each value of @xmath75 in this range",
    "we have calculated the total length of the magnetic filed line crossing the prominence center , @xmath77 .",
    "the relationship between @xmath75 and @xmath77 is plotted in fig .",
    "[ p_l - llf ] and will be used later .",
    "returning fig .",
    "[ fieldlines_l ] notice that the dip in the magnetic field lines is quite different in size for the two prominence models , and this can have important implications regarding stability , as we will discuss later .",
    "these two models have quite a different length of the field lines and also a different variation of the equilibrium magnitudes .",
    "alfvn and sound speeds are plotted in fig .",
    "[ va_cs_l ] as a function of the @xmath78coordinate for the two field lines represented in fig .",
    "[ fieldlines_l ] . in this plot",
    "we see that for the narrow arcade the alfvn velocity variation is stronger than for the wide arcade , and that near the prominence body , characterized by the depression around @xmath27 , the alfvn speed in the external medium is lower for the narrow arcade . on the contrary ,",
    "the profile of the sound speed is quite similar for the two models .",
    "it is important to realize that the variation of the alfvn speed along the field lines is due to the change in both the modulus of the magnetic field and density . in fig .",
    "[ va_cs_l ] the alfvn speed at the @xmath4 level has been set to @xmath79 , i.e. , @xmath80 .",
    "this value determines a strength of the magnetic field at the base of the corona of 10 gauss . due to the variation with height of the quadrupolar magnetic configuration the magnetic field strength decreases up to a value of around 2 gauss at the core of the prominence",
    "this is a limitation of our model because to have higher values of the magnetic field at the prominence body requires a significant increase of the alfvn speed which is most likely unrealistic .",
    "here we have considered that at most @xmath81 , and this leads to a value of 4 gauss at the prominence center .",
    "finally , it is worth to mention that three different values for the total mass of the prominence have been considered in this work .",
    "the values of @xmath46 are @xmath82 , @xmath83 , and @xmath84 .",
    "this will allow us to analyze the effect of the total mass on the periods of oscillation of the different prominence models .",
    "the process of mass injection yields to the excitation of waves in the configuration .",
    "some of these waves have a strong leaky character and leave the system quite quickly . however , there are other waves that are clearly associated to oscillations of the density enhancement and are analyzed here using the velocity field .",
    "a clear example of periodic oscillations is found in fig .",
    "[ graph7 ] . in this plot",
    "the vertical component of the velocity is plotted at a fixed point near the center of the prominence .",
    "we observe a substantial variation of the amplitude which is associated to the mass injection process , followed by short period waves .",
    "this periodic oscillation is damped with time .",
    "in fact , vertical oscillations take place before the new equilibrium is reached so that the prominence is still moving downwards . in fig .",
    "[ graph7 ] there is a small global negative velocity shift in the vertical velocity after the injection phase , meaning that the whole structure is not yet oscillating around the final equilibrium position , although it is quite close to it since the drift tends to zero for long times .",
    "for this reason , we think that to better understand waves in the configuration it is more convenient to study oscillations once the prominence is in equilibrium .",
    "hence , we let evolve the system for long times till it relaxes to the stationary state .",
    "then we have two possibilities , either we introduce a perturbation in the system using the full nonlinear mhd equations , or we simply focus on the linear problem solving the linearized mhd equations around the final equilibrium . here",
    "we adopt the last approach .",
    "a particular prominence model is first selected .",
    "using the linear code a perturbation at the prominence body is introduced in the vertical direction at a given instant ( @xmath85 ) . for simplicity the spatial dependence of the velocity perturbation",
    "is the same as in eq .",
    "( [ source ] ) . in fig .",
    "[ velvn ] we find the 2d distribution of the velocities at a given time of the evolution .",
    "the initial disturbance excites mainly fast mhd waves since the motion is dominated by the components normal to the magnetic field lines , while the parallel component is rather small . in a low plasma-@xmath33 ,",
    "normal / parallel motions are typically related to fast / slow mhd waves .",
    "we have used the following relations to calculate the velocity components @xmath86 the velocity field indicates that the prominence is oscillating as a whole mostly in the vertical direction .",
    "the spatial distribution of @xmath87 has a maximum at the location of the prominence core but it shows a tail extending in the @xmath0direction .",
    "hereafter we mostly focus on the period of oscillation . by performing a periodogram of the signal at the center to the prominence",
    "we compute the dominant period of oscillation .",
    "this has been repeated for different equilibrium models .",
    "one of the parameters that has been changed is @xmath75 ( half the length of the arcade ) . in fig .",
    "[ p_l ] the period of the vertical mode is plotted as a function of @xmath77 ( the relationship between @xmath77 and @xmath75 is found in fig .",
    "[ p_l - llf ] ) .",
    "other important parameters have been also changed , the different line styles correspond to the three different total masses of the prominence considered in this work , while thin lines correspond to @xmath79 and thick lines to @xmath81 , i.e. , associated to values of the magnetic field at the prominence core of 2 and 4 gauss , respectively .",
    "several conclusions can be extracted from fig .",
    "we see that the period of oscillation does not have a very strong dependence on @xmath77 . for small @xmath77 the periods are slightly longer than for large @xmath77 , and in this last regime",
    "the period attains an almost constant value .",
    "we also see that , as expected , the period increases when the total mass of the prominence is raised . for example , for large @xmath77 the differences in period between the lightest prominence ( @xmath88 ) and the heaviest prominence ( @xmath89 )",
    "is only around @xmath90 for the case @xmath79 .",
    "figure  [ p_l ] also indicates that the periods for @xmath81 are shorter than those for @xmath79 by a factor which is around 2 .",
    "these results suggest that there might be a simple relationship of the period with the different equilibrium parameters . to investigate this point we compare the results of our simulations with simple analytical models whose explicit dependence of the period on the equilibrium parameters is known .    the first model we can use for the comparison is the infinite straight slab with a transverse constant magnetic field .",
    "if the prominence body has a length @xmath91 , and the total length of the field lines is @xmath92 , then for the situation @xmath93 the period is ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) @xmath94 where @xmath95 is the typical speed in the prominence body . in the case of fast mhd oscillations @xmath96 .",
    "we have calculated from the results of the simulations the alfvn speed at the center of the prominence body and have also estimated @xmath91 and @xmath92 ( @xmath97 and @xmath98 ) . using these values",
    "the period is calculated from eq .",
    "( [ omega_tt ] ) .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ p_lcomp ] with dotted curves .",
    "these curves have to be compared with the results of the period inferred from simulations shown in solid curves ( thin curves correspond to the case @xmath79 while thick curves represent the case @xmath81 ) .",
    "there is a difference of more than a factor 4 between the simple analytical periods and the ones inferred from the solution of the full problem .",
    "this indicates that the simple slab model is not a good representation of our prominence model . among other things , in eq .",
    "( [ omega_tt ] ) an infinite extension of the prominence in the vertical direction is assumed .    a way to improve",
    "the comparison is to evaluate the role of a finite height of the slab on the period of oscillation . to do this we have to recall the results of @xcite who studied the problem of fast mhd waves in a finite two - dimensional slab representing a prominence thread .",
    "the magnetic field in their model is constant and density changes abruptly between the corona and the prominence .",
    "the model does not take into account the effect of gas pressure ( @xmath99 ) , and gravity and curvature of the magnetic field are neglected .",
    "the authors derived a general dispersion relation based on an infinite system of homogeneous algebraic equations . for comparison purposes",
    "we have used the method of @xcite to calculate the eigenfrequencies of oscillation using the equilibrium values derived from our simulations which include many effects that are still missing in the model of these authors .",
    "the results of these calculations are shown in fig .",
    "[ p_lcomp ] with dashed lines .",
    "we see a significant decrease of the period in comparison with the unbounded slab ( around a factor 2 ) .",
    "notice that the behavior for large @xmath77 for the finite slab is very similar to the profile of the numerically calculated periods for the full case .",
    "therefore , the finite slab model incorporates an effect that improves the comparison with the full numerical case .",
    "nevertheless , the differences with respect to the numerical simulations remain significant .",
    "one of the assumptions of the finite slab problem is that @xmath33 is zero , and this is not the case for the full problem .",
    "a simple way to asses the effect of finite @xmath33 is to compare the results for the two values of the alfvn speed used in this work .",
    "figure  [ p_lcomp ] shows that the difference between the periods of the finite slab model and the numerical results decreases as @xmath33 is decreased . for @xmath79",
    "this ratio of the periods is typically 2.5 while for @xmath81 is around 2 .",
    "the effect of curvature of the magnetic field can also play a role in the discrepancy between the finite slab model and the full problem . in this regard ,",
    "it was shown by @xcite that curved loops with cylindrical and elliptical geometries have periods for the fundamental vertical fast mode that are always smaller than that of the equivalent straight models .",
    "this is in agreement with the behavior found in fig .",
    "[ p_lcomp ] .",
    "although the results of @xcite are for a tube which is fully filled and here we consider a tube that is only partially filled by the prominence core , these theoretical works point out that curvature typically lowers the period in this sort of 2d configurations .",
    "it is interesting to point out that in curved configurations most of the modes have a leaky character , and the global fast mode studied here is not an exception .",
    "more details about this issue are given in section  [ alfsec ] .",
    "so far the analytical modes used in our comparison assume that the equilibrium magnitudes are piecewise constant along the magnetic field .",
    "this is certainly not true in our numerical prominence models ( see for example fig .",
    "[ va_cs_l ] ) and this might introduce also some changes on the period of oscillation .",
    "unfortunately the investigation of this effect is not straight forward since up to know the analytical works in this direction have been mainly focused on straight and fully filled cylinders representing coronal loops ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in any case",
    ", it is known that , at least for the fundamental fast mhd mode , what really matters regarding the period of oscillation is the value of the equilibrium magnitudes around the center of the structure while the changes around the footpoints are less important because of the line - tying boundary conditions .",
    "gravity has been ignored in the analysis of prominence oscillations in most of the previous analytical works .",
    "here we have a simple way to check the role of the gravity force on fast mhd waves . since the periods of oscillation are calculated using the linearized set of equations we have compared these values of the periods when the gravity term is included and when it is set to zero .",
    "the differences are really small , of the order of @xmath100 only , and this leads us to conclude that the effect of gravity on fast mhd modes in prominences is very small at least for the range of parameters considered in this work .",
    "another question that we have addressed is whether the shape of the prominence has a strong influence on the period of the vertical oscillation .",
    "we have performed different experiments changing the prominence from vertical to horizontal , but keeping the same mass and geometrical aspect ration .",
    "we have concentrated on models with the longest size of the field lines .",
    "the results of the simulations clearly indicate that the period of the vertical mode is essentially the same .",
    "thus , the particular shape of the prominence seems not to be very important regarding the period of vertical oscillations ( at least in the cartesian geometry studied here ) .",
    "we have also carried out the same experiment but using the model of @xcite and have arrived to the same conclusion .",
    "this is an interesting result , for fast mhd waves what really matters is the amount of mass of the prominence and not its particular geometrical shape .",
    "this conclusion might not be true in cylindrical geometry and also for the longitudinal harmonics in cartesian geometry .    in summary",
    ", we deduce that the deviation of the actual period of vertical oscillation from the prediction of eq .",
    "( [ omega_tt ] ) is mainly due to the effects of the finite vertical extent of the prominence and of curvature .",
    "finally , it is important to mention that no hints of instability have been found when vertical oscillations are excited in the system . in principle instability is possible in this configuration since at the bottom of the prominence we have a situation of a heavy plasma on top of a light plasma under the presence of gravity ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for an application to prominence threads ) . however , magnetic tension is sufficient to counteract gravity making the interface stable . according to the dispersion relation of the interface",
    "( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ) if perturbations are assumed to have a component along the @xmath45direction then rayleigh - taylor instabilities would be enhanced since the gravitational term increases .",
    "slow magnetoacoustic - gravity modes are investigated in this section . in our model ,",
    "the spectrum of slow - gravity modes contains a continuum of frequencies plus discrete modes .",
    "we first focus on discrete modes by introducing a horizontal perturbation exciting the whole prominence body . since the motions are basically polarized along the magnetic field lines we call these motions longitudinal .",
    "snapshots at two different times of the velocity component parallel to the magnetic field , calculated using eq .",
    "( [ v_par ] ) , are found in fig .",
    "[ velvpar ] .",
    "the distribution of @xmath101 shows a strong localization at the prominence body but also along the field lines that pass through the core and connect to the photosphere where line - tying is imposed ( not shown in fig .",
    "[ velvpar ] ) .",
    "the period of oscillation of discrete slow magnetoacoustic - gravity waves , or for short , longitudinal modes , is plotted in fig .",
    "[ period_ls ] and is longer than that of the transverse vertical modes .",
    "this is an expected result since we are in a low @xmath33 regime and therefore slow modes have lower frequencies ( longer periods ) than fast modes .",
    "now the periods associated to the models with @xmath81 , are a bit longer than those for @xmath79 , but the difference is not 2 because for low @xmath33 slow modes the characteristic velocity is essentially the sound speed , which does not change much for the two reference alfvn velocities considered here . note that the profile of the curves is different depending on the total mass of the prominence .",
    "light prominences show an increase of the period with the length of the magnetic field line , while heavier prominences display the opposite behavior , the period is decreasing with @xmath77 .",
    "moreover , for the two heaviest prominences the system becomes unstable to longitudinal oscillations ( see dashed area in fig .",
    "[ period_ls ] ) for values of @xmath77 smaller than a critical threshold .",
    "the unstable modes are characterized by an exponential increase with time of the amplitude of all the perturbed variables .",
    "two examples of such behavior are plotted in fig .",
    "[ unstable_long ] for different lengths of the arcade .",
    "the physics behind this instability is basically that , if the dip is not big enough , the mass of the prominence is able to fall down by the effect of the gravity force along the field lines connecting to the photosphere .",
    "thus the parameter @xmath77 , and therefore @xmath75 , plays a relevant role regarding the stability of the structure with respect to basically longitudinal motions , since it indirectly determines the size of the dip in the model .",
    "figure [ fieldlines_l ] provides a good example , the narrow arcade model is unstable ( it falls in the unstable region plotted in fig .",
    "[ p_l ] ) , while the prominence in the wider arcade is stable with respect to longitudinal motions .",
    "we have not performed a detailed study about the growth rates since the instability is simply linked to the fact that the mass falls toward the base of the corona .",
    "note also from fig .",
    "[ period_ls ] that heavy prominences have longer periods than light prominences .",
    "this is in agreement with the results of @xcite who simulated the formation of a prominence and analyzed the periods of the corresponding slow modes using a 1d model ( see their figs .  3 and 4 ) .",
    "the fact that the period increases when the mass is increased can be explained by the decrement of the sound speed in the prominence body .",
    "if gravity terms are not very important then the motion of the prominence is governed by pressure forces and the frequency of oscillation is basically proportional to the internal sound speed .",
    "therefore , heavy prominences , associated to low values of the sound speed , have longer periods than light prominences with higher values of the sound speed ( if gas pressure is kept constant ) .    concerning slow magnetoacoustic - gravity modes @xcite claim that longitudinal oscillations are mostly driven by gravity and have a period given by @xmath102 where @xmath103 is the radius of curvature of the dipped magnetic field .",
    "we have calculated the radius of curvature of different prominence models and have computed the corresponding period using the previous formula . the period from simulations together with the period due to gravity",
    "only are displayed in fig .",
    "[ period_lsan ] for the case @xmath79 .",
    "it is clear that the agreement between the two results is not good .",
    "the curves associated to the analytical expression show a completely different behavior with @xmath77 .",
    "the analytical expression predicts that the heaviest prominence should have a shorter period than that of the lightest one , while the results from the simulations indicate the opposite dependence .",
    "these differences suggest that the identification of longitudinal motions as purely due to gravity is not appropriate at least in the present configuration .",
    "the reason of the discrepancy is most likely due to the different assumptions made in the models . in @xcite the variation of the magnetic field along field lines is neglected , their model is isothermal and more important the radius of curvature is constant .",
    "since they consider prominence threads the height of the plasma column is quite short .",
    "we turn to the modes of the continuum .",
    "@xcite found expressions for slow continua ( and also alfvn continua ) in a general 2d magnetostatic equilibrium with invariance in the @xmath45direction ( see their eqs .",
    "( 59 ) and ( 60 ) ) .",
    "these expressions were derived using a local orthogonal system of flux coordinates , which for simplicity , are written here in terms of the distance along the field lines , denoted by @xmath104 . for slow modes , purely polarized along the magnetic field lines for the situation @xmath105",
    ", we have @xmath106 where @xmath107 @xmath108 here @xmath109 is the tube or cusp speed , defined as @xmath110 , @xmath111 is the projection of gravity along the magnetic field line , and @xmath112 is the frequency that we want to calculate ( perturbations of the form @xmath113 have been assumed ) .",
    "note that the different terms involve derivatives of density , gravity , and magnetic field along the field lines .",
    "equation ( [ slowcont ] ) must be complemented with appropriate boundary conditions , which are line - tying at the two ends of the magnetic field lines . solving this equation and determining the value of the eigenfrequency @xmath112 is not straight forward since our configuration does not have a simple geometry .",
    "the numerical procedure is the following , a particular footpoint is selected and the corresponding field line coordinates are calculated using the equilibrium that has been determined numerically .",
    "once the coordinates of the field line are known , all the necessary variables are projected along this magnetic field line as a function of the distance @xmath104 along the field line . the last step is to numerically solve eq .",
    "( [ slowcont ] ) using the interpolated values .    in fig .",
    "[ alfslowfreq ] the computed frequency for slow mhd modes belonging to the continuum , @xmath114 , is represented as a function of the footpoint position in a fixed interval .",
    "the curve in dots in fig .",
    "[ alfslowfreq ] corresponds to the eigenmode calculations without a dense prominence and has been included for comparison purposes .",
    "these eigenmode computations show a good agreement with the results of the time - dependent problem , represented in fig .",
    "[ alfslowfreq ] with circles , when the initial excitation is localized on different magnetic surfaces , producing an efficient slow mode excitation . from the agreement between the time - dependent results and the eigenmode results",
    "we conclude that our solutions to eq .",
    "( [ slowcont ] ) are correct .",
    "the inclusion in the arcade of a dense prominence produces the existence of a minimum in the cusp speed .",
    "it is interesting to note that the discrete slow modes have frequencies that are below this minimum .",
    "this is surprising since slow modes in homogeneous slabs @xcite have frequencies between internal cusp speed and the internal sound speed ( under coronal conditions though ) .",
    "this phenomena needs to be studied in more detail in future studies .      in this work",
    "we are not interested in the analysis of motions in the ignorable direction which are related to the excitation of pure alfvn waves .",
    "these modes lack of a global character and can not produce coherent global motions of the prominence .",
    "however , we can derive useful information from the corresponding eigenmode calculations .",
    "if @xmath105 , we have the following second order differential equation ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for the modes of the alfvn continuum @xmath115 where @xmath112 is the eigenfrequency .",
    "note that there is no dependence with gravity in this equation and that there is a term which accounts for the variation of the strength of the magnetic field along field lines .",
    "the computation of the alfvn spectrum is useful in order to understand the damping of global transverse modes . from the numerical point of view",
    "we proceed in a similar way as for the slow modes belonging to the continuum .    in fig .",
    "[ alfslowfreq ] the computed frequency for alfvn modes , @xmath116 , is represented as a function of the footpoint position .",
    "the alfvn frequency is larger than that of the slow or cusp frequency since we are in a situation where magnetic pressure dominates over gas pressure .",
    "the agreement between eigenmode calculations and the results of the time - dependent problem , using a localized perturbation on magnetic surfaces in @xmath117 , is evident ( compare circles with the dotted curve ) . again",
    "the depression in frequency around the footpoint located at @xmath118 is due to the presence of the heavy prominence . the frequency of the discrete fundamental vertical mode determined from the linear time - dependent problem , @xmath119 , is also plotted in fig .",
    "[ alfslowfreq ] as a horizontal dashed line .",
    "we see that depending on the footpoint position the frequency of the global vertical mode is above or below the local alfvn frequency .",
    "if the frequency is above the alfvn frequency it means that the eigenfunction has an oscillatory behavior , while if it is below its behavior is evanescent ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the fact that @xmath120 for @xmath121 , which corresponds to magnetic field lines with apexes situated at higher heights as @xmath122 is decreased , means that the eigenfunction is not confined and it is oscillatory .",
    "this is an indication that the mode is unable to trap all the energy and has a leaky character , being its energy radiated away from the prominence body .",
    "the leaky character of the mode produces an attenuation of the amplitude with time , and this feature is already present in fig .",
    "[ graph7 ] .",
    "it is known that the inclusion of perpendicular wavenumber in the @xmath45direction might significantly reduce this leakage .",
    "in addition , we have to bear in mind that the plasma-@xmath33 changes significantly in the computational domain ( see fig .  [ plasmabeta ] ) and there are regions where the sound speed is equal to the alfvn speed ( @xmath33 close to one ) . under such conditions the character of the modes can change due to mode conversion and contribute to the damping of the global modes . as the damping of oscillations is not the main topic of this paper we have not investigated further the mechanism of mode conversion .    from the numerical perspective",
    "both slow and alfvn modes show a strong attenuation with time which is produced by numerical dissipation .",
    "as the modes of the continuum are localized on magnetic flux surfaces and a cartesian grid is used in the simulations , it is difficult to capture the correct spatial structure of the modes but nevertheless we still get periods , as fig .",
    "[ alfslowfreq ] indicates , which are quite reliable .",
    "a possible way to improve in this aspect is by using flux coordinates in the simulations .",
    "the reader is referred to @xcite for an example of such kind of simulations in a curved magnetic field .",
    "a numerical method to obtain mhs solutions with some specific features that mimic real prominences has been presented .",
    "the method is based on the injection of mass through the continuity equation and on the relaxation of the system .",
    "the initial equilibrium is given an increase in gravitational energy by the increase of the density at a given location .",
    "part of this energy is converted into an increment of the magnetic energy and internal energy but also in an increase of kinetic energy .",
    "we have found that our numerical scheme is suitable to study the evolution of the system towards a situation that is close to a stationary state .",
    "the treatment of boundary conditions , based on a decomposition in characteristic fields , is the key part of the relaxation method since the energy excess is allowed to leave the system through the boundaries . by the time we were preparing this manuscript we were aware of the work of @xcite who have also used a relaxation method in the context of prominences .",
    "however , their study is based on flux rope structures and their relaxation technique uses over dissipation to achieve a stationary state .",
    "thus , the method used in our work , based on the decomposition in characteristics , is conceptually different .    using the relaxation method we have built a set of new prominence equilibrium models in 2d .",
    "these models include the connection of the prominence body with the photosphere , and contain a cool core that matches the internal temperature with the coronal temperature through a pctr .",
    "the size of the prominence core and pctr are determined by the choice of the spatial distribution of the mass source term . the gravity force is included in the numerically generated models .",
    "it is clear that the method devised here to find mhs solutions should be extended to three - dimensional geometries . in particular",
    ", a future application could be to use 3d magnetic field extrapolations of a real prominence to test the global support of the structure by injecting mass in the magnetic configuration and studying the time evolution . from the comparison of the model with observations ,",
    "some conclusions about the magnetic field extrapolations could be extracted .",
    "the second part of the work is about the analysis of mhd waves in the numerically generated models .",
    "the properties of the different types of mhd modes have been studied .",
    "since we have restricted to oscillations without perpendicular propagation in the @xmath45direction ( @xmath105 ) the different types of waves are easily identified because they are uncoupled .",
    "we have found that vertical oscillations , associated mainly to fast mhd waves , are always stable , at least for the equilibrium parameters considered in this work , when there is no perpendicular propagation .",
    "the obtained periods are typically in the 4 - 10 min range . on the contrary , longitudinal oscillations , related to slow magnetoacoustic - gravity waves have longer periods periods which are in the range 28 - 40 min .",
    "these waves are strongly affected by gravity and can become unstable when short magnetic arcades are considered because they are unable to have significant dips which are the key to have stable magnetic configurations .",
    "the two different groups of periods found in this work and related to fast and slow mhd waves are below the values of the reported periods from observations .",
    "for example , we can compare with the periods found in table 1 of @xcite that are associated , in most of the cases , to motions of the whole structure . in that table",
    "we can distinguish that periods of vertical motions are typically in the range 15 - 29 min , while longitudinal motions ( along the filament axis ) are in the range 50 - 160 min .",
    "we think that more realistic configurations are necessary to improve the comparison and 3d models are the key point to achieve this . in this regard ,",
    "the information inferred from the properties of mhd oscillations in prominence structures like the ones studied in this work my lead in the near future to the application of prominence seismology ( see for example * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the periods of oscillation in our complex configurations have been compared with the periods predicted by simple models that miss many physical effects .",
    "regarding fast mhd waves we have found that , for example , the results of the infinite slab only provide an estimation of the order of magnitude of the period of oscillation .",
    "the effects of considering a prominence with a finite height improves the comparison .",
    "gravity seems to be not important for vertical motions of the prominence , and interestingly , the geometrical shape of the prominence is not relevant . on the contrary ,",
    "slow magnetoacoustic - gravity waves have a completely different behavior .",
    "they are strongly affected by the gravity force and can even become unstable . the existence of a continuous spectrum of slow mhd waves complicates the interpretation of the periods of oscillation since in general there is a joint excitation of both discrete and continuum modes .",
    "we expect that the inclusion of perpendicular propagation in the model can significantly change some of the properties of the mhd waves .",
    "first of all , it will produce the resonant damping of the global vertical mode with the modes of the alfvn continuum .",
    "second , it can have a strong effect on vertical modes since they may become rayleigh - taylor unstable ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for recent results about 3d modeling ) .",
    "nevertheless , the inclusion of shear and twist , ignored in the present work , might have an stabilizing effect .",
    "as far as we know , mhd stability analysis in theoretical prominence models of this type are very scarce .",
    "thus , the problem of instabilities due to gravity together with twist or shear should be carefully examined in future studies using three - dimensional models .",
    "this is an interesting problem since the dynamics of the instability could be exhaustively investigated and a more realistic comparison with the observations could be attempted .",
    "j.t . acknowledges support from the spanish ministerio de educacin y ciencia through a ramn y cajal grant .",
    "all the authors acknowledge the funding provided under the project aya2011 - 22846 by the spanish micinn and feder funds .",
    "acknowledges the financial support by the spanish ministry of science through project aya2010 - 18029 . the financial support from caib through the `` grups competitius '' scheme is also acknowledged",
    "the authors also thank m. luna , g. verth and a. w. hood for their comments and suggestions that helped to improve the paper .",
    "the comments of the anonymous referee are also acknowledged ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> solar prominence models used so far in the analysis of mhd waves in such structures are quite elementary . in this work , </S>",
    "<S> we calculate numerically magnetohydrostatic models in two - dimensional configurations under the presence of gravity . </S>",
    "<S> our interest is in models that connect the magnetic field to the photosphere and include an overlying arcade . </S>",
    "<S> the method used here is based on a relaxation process and requires solving the time - dependent nonlinear ideal mhd equations . </S>",
    "<S> once a prominence model is obtained , we investigate the properties of mhd waves superimposed on the structure . </S>",
    "<S> we concentrate on motions purely two - dimensional neglecting propagation in the ignorable direction . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate how by using different numerical tools we can determine the period of oscillation of stable waves . </S>",
    "<S> we find that vertical oscillations , linked to fast mhd waves , are always stable and have periods in the 4 - 10 min range . longitudinal oscillations , related to slow magnetoacoustic - gravity waves , have longer periods in the range of 28 - 40 min . </S>",
    "<S> these longitudinal oscillations are strongly influenced by the gravity force and become unstable for short magnetic arcades . </S>"
  ]
}