{
  "article_text": [
    "m giants are long - period variables requiring years of continuous observations for their study .",
    "much of our recent knowledge was gained from microlensing surveys of the magellanic cloud and the galactic bulge , such as macho @xcite , ogle @xcite and eros @xcite .    while analysing photometric data of red giants in the macho survey of the lmc , @xcite found several sequences in the period - luminosity ( p - l ) plane , which were labelled as a , b , c , e and d , representing shorter to longer periods .",
    "subsequent studies have shown that these structures of the sequences is rich , with over a dozen features that are related to luminosity ( below or above the tip of the red giant branch - see , e.g. , @xcite ) and chemical composition ( carbon - rich vs. oxygen - rich , * ? ? ? * ) or might have a dependency on the wavelength range of the luminosity indicator @xcite .",
    "the most distinct parallel sequences a and b represent the radial overtone modes of semiregulars ( sr ) .",
    "these stars are numerous and most of them have multiple periods .",
    "the miras lie on sequence c , which corresponds to the fundamental mode @xcite .",
    "the power spectra of semiregulars that are observed for a large number of pulsation periods show modes with solar - like lorentzian envelopes @xcite .",
    "this suggests that stochastic excitation and damping take place . with decreasing luminosities the pulsations decrease in amplitude and become more difficult to detect .",
    "however , these also have shorter periods , making them good candidates for high - quality space photometry from _ corot _ and _ kepler_. in addition to the mentioned sequences of the srs and miras , there are two sequences in the p - l plane : sequence e and d representing the eclipsing binaries and the long secondary periods , respectively @xcite .",
    "the latter remains unexplained @xcite .",
    "although there is significant improvement in the understanding of m giant variability , there remain many question regarding the excitation and damping of the pulsations , and the expected crossover from mira - like to solar - like excitation @xcite which must take place in m giants . while the period - luminosity relations seem to be universal , regardless of the galactic environment ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the full potential of these stars as tracers of the galactic structure is yet to be fully explored .",
    "the presence of many modes of oscillation is expected to enable the application of asteroseismology for the most luminous giants @xcite , which may be affected by the mass - loss in the upper parts of the giant branch .",
    "there has also been some controversy on the short - period microvariability of mira - like stars @xcite , and _ kepler _ might prove to be ideal for resolving this issue .",
    "the complex light curves have also been interpreted in terms of stochasticity and chaos @xcite .",
    "working group 12 ( hereafter wg12 ) of the kepler asteroseismic consortium @xcite was formed for the purpose of studying mira and semiregular pulsations in the _ kepler _ data .",
    "here we present the first results obtained from the analysis of the wg12 sample .",
    "the paper is organised as follows .",
    "[ section : wg12sample ] presents a detailed description of the wg12 stars , which indclude the selection criteria .",
    "[ section : dataanalysis ] describes the data analysis .",
    "[ section : discussion ] presents the comparison of our results with ground - based photometry , the study of frequencies and amplitudes of light - curve variations and time - frequency analyses .",
    "a brief summary is given in sect .",
    "[ section : summary ] .",
    "are plotted .",
    "the bright k giants are confined between the two red vertical dashed lines , while the m giants were selected from the upper right region.,width=302 ]    m giants are the longest period variable stars in the kasc program .",
    "the typical time - scale of variability is of the order of one or two kepler quarters , which means removing instrumental drifts is potentially difficult . on the other hand ,",
    "their amplitudes are above the usual instrumental effects , so correcting the m giant light curves should be a relatively simple task ( and involves essentially neglecting every systematic effect that goes beyond a constant vertical shift in the light curves from quarter to quarter ) . after having combined three years of _ kepler _ data",
    "( we used the quarters q0 @xmath0 q12 ) , we can characterize m giant variability in a homogeneous and meaningful way .",
    "the total sample includes over 300 m giant stars .",
    "we had two lists of targets : one was initially selected from a dedicated northern asas3 variability survey of the kepler field @xcite , while the second one was selected from the kepler input catalogue @xcite .",
    "the first set of m giant targets have been selected by combining @xmath1 and @xmath2 values from kic , the j@xmath0k colour from 2mass and the variability information from the asas3 survey .",
    "we adopted @xmath3 k , @xmath4 and restricted the sample to kepler magnitude @xmath5 ( see in fig .",
    "[ or an asas3 variability that is incompatible with a red giant ) . that resulted in 200 targets with variability information . since the asas3 variables are all cool and large amplitude stars , we created a second list of further 200 target candidates with warmer m giants randomly selected from kic10 with the same limits ( @xmath3 k and @xmath4 ) .",
    "these stars are expected to show small - amplitude pulsations that were not detectable with the asas3 survey .",
    "the final list of targets that was approved for observations by _ kepler _ contained 198 stars from the asas3 variable list and 119 from the other list .",
    "most of these 317 stars have uninterrupted long - cadence ( one point per every 29.4 points and short gaps between the quarters ) coverage throughout q0 to q12 and their data were analysed using the process described below .",
    "the _ kepler _ space telescope rolls 90 degrees every quarter of a year , and consequently , variability of the majority of target stars is measured by a different ccd camera and using a slightly different aperture every quarter in a cycle of a year . for m giants with variability time - scales comparable to a yearly quarter ,",
    "there is great difficulty distinguish quarter - to - quarter variations from the intrinsic stellar variability @xcite .",
    "[ shows an illustration of why identical fitting parameters were not used : while 20 points were usually enough for getting a smooth transition between two quarters , stars with rapid fluctuations must be treated differently .",
    "figure [ . after correcting for the jumps .",
    "the program also divided the data by the mean flux level . in the case of kic 4908338 ,",
    "kic 6838420 and kic 8840004 we used 2000 points for the fits , 20 points were used for kic 2986893 ( except for the jump around bjd 55500 ) , kic 6279696 , kic 7274171 and kic 11759262 , while the dataset for kic 11768249 was corrected with linear fits to 200 points . note that each of these light curves contains approximately 48,000 points .",
    "all the corrected wg12 data analysed here are available for download through the electronic version of this paper .",
    "[ section : methods ] to characterise m giant variability with _ kepler _ , we have performed several simple analyses .",
    "we compared the data to ground - based observations where available , then studied the amplitudes and periodicities with standard approaches .",
    "finally , we looked into the time - dependent changes of the periods and amplitudes using the time - frequency distributions .    to demonstrate the potential and properties of the data",
    ", we carried out several comparisons with ground - based photometric observations such as those of the american association of variable star observers ( aavso ) or the all sky automated survey ( asas ) .",
    "amplitude and periods were determined from the fourier transform of the time series with the program period04 @xcite . in order to study",
    "the time dependent phenomena , e.g. amplitude and frequency modulation , mode switching , etc .",
    "we calculated time - frequency distributions for all stars using the weighted wavelet - z transform code ( wwz , @xcite ) .",
    "we compared our _ kepler _ measurements with ground - based photometry provided by the asas and aavso databases . in this section",
    "we use aavso data ( visual , photoelectric @xmath6 and rgb - band digital single - lens reflex ( dslr ) data ) to study how well the ground- and space - based data can be cross calibrated .    for three well - known long - period variables we compared the aavso and _ kepler _ light curves and their frequency spectra . in fig . [ .",
    "the two sets of light curves are very similar even though the photometric bands were different .",
    "we noticed that in the case of rwlyr a large amount of flux has been lost due to saturation .",
    "this might be the cause of the imperfect agreement between the _ kepler _ and aavso visual data .",
    "to remedy the situation we checked the target pixel files of this object and verified that the assigned optimal apertures were incapable of retaining all the flux , especially around maxima ( with the approx .",
    "500-day period maxima occurred in q3 , q8 and q13 ) . around the maximum light as much as 50 - 60% of the flux was lost .    in quarters where time intervals with no flux - loss were available",
    "we applied the method developed in @xcite , namely we used the ratio of the saturated and neighbouring column integrated flux values to correct for the lost flux . in q3 , q8 and q13",
    "however , this method failed , because flux leaked out of the downloaded pixel area during the whole quarter , therefore no reference values could be found . in these cases",
    "we simply scaled the heavily saturated columns to follow the neighbouring non - saturated columns or sum of these .",
    "this process indeed helped to match the space- and ground - based data in some quarters but not in others , hence we decided not to include the corrected light curves in fig .",
    "[ ) are also very similar , with only minor differences in the amplitude distribution .",
    "the plots are organised in such a way that the wavelet map , in which the amplitude is colour - coded and normalized to unity , is surrounded by the light curve on the top and the corresponding fourier spectrum on the left . this way we can see the temporal behaviour of the peaks in the spectrum and also in some cases the effects of gaps in the data .    to characterise periodicities we performed a fourier analysis for all the corrected light curves . with iterative pre - whitening steps we determined the first 50 frequencies with period04 . in many cases ,",
    "there were only a couple of significant peaks ( like for af  cyg ) , while for the lower - amplitude stars even 50 frequencies may not include every significant peak .",
    "the general conclusion , based on the various comparisons to ground - based data , is that there is a good correspondence between the two data sources in terms of the dominant periods and the shape of the light curves for the high - amplitude long - period variables .",
    "_ kepler _ s superior precision allows for the determination of more periods for the lower - luminosity stars , but in cases when the frequency content is simple ( like for a mira star or a high - amplitude semiregular variable ) , 1,100 days of _ kepler _ data are still too short for revealing meaningful new information .",
    "however , the uninterrupted _ kepler _ light curves should allow for the detection of microvariability with time - scales much shorter than those of the pulsations .",
    "we note here that we found no star with flare - like events that would resemble those reported from the hipparcos data by @xcite .",
    "the light curves of m giant variables can be very complex , seemingly stochastic with one or few dominant periodicities .",
    "the complexity is inversely proportional to the overall amplitude .",
    "the large - amplitude miras are known to be single periodic variables with coherent and stable light curves .",
    "the lower amplitudes are typically associated with complicated light curve shapes that can be interpreted as a superposition of multiple pulsation modes .",
    "the _ kepler _ wg12 sample ( sec .",
    "[ section : wg12sample ] ) shows many features in the distribution of amplitudes and periods that were found previously in ground - based surveys . here",
    ", we attempt to characterise the systematic distinction between different groups of stars .        based on the complexity in the time and the frequency domains , we sorted the stars into three groups .",
    "stars in group 1 have a wide range of periods between a few days and 100 days ( e.g. kic  4908338 or kic  11759262 in fig .",
    "[ ) , occasionally supplemented by slow changes that may be related to rotational modulation or instrumental drifts .",
    "a close inspection showed that all of them belong to the non - asas sample ( sec .",
    "[ section : wg12sample ] ) .",
    "stars with light curves containing only a few periodic components ( miras and srs ) compose group 3 ( e.g. kic  7274171 in fig . [     similarly to previous studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we made a petersen diagram ( period ratios vs. periods ) for all wg12 stars to check any regularity in the frequency spacing and ratios . to make the diagram",
    ", we took the five most significant periods and selected every possible pair to plot their ratio as a function of the longer of the two . in fig .",
    "[ , a ratio that is known to belong to the upper red giant branch stars , one to two magnitudes below the absolute magnitude of the tip of the red giant branch ( trgb , see @xcite ) .",
    "the ratio is in excellent agreement with the analysis of period ratios for a similar - sized sample of bright southern pulsating red giants by @xcite and those in ogle observations by @xcite .",
    "this ratio has been interpreted as due to pulsations in the first and second radial overtone modes in theoretical models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "recently , @xcite performed detailed modelling of ogle small amplitude red giants ( osargs ) from the ogle - iii catalogue @xcite , for which they found that the rich structure in the petersen diagram can be explained by radial overtone modes , as well as by non - radial dipole and quadropole modes .",
    "our plot in fig .",
    "[ , it may seem surprising that stars in group 2 , i.e. objects characterised by their rapid variability , hardly appear in the lower left corner of the plot , where the short - period variables should fall . instead , the green points are scattered in the long - period end of fig . [ ( except the vertical concentration at @xmath7 and 2.87 resulting from to the _ kepler_-year variability ) confirms the noise - like behaviour for group 2 .      for further investigations the nature of the three groups , we studied the amplitudes and their distributions .",
    "first we made the period - amplitude plot for the whole sample , using all the 50 frequencies and amplitudes calculated by period04 .",
    "this is shown in the upper panel of fig . [ and @xmath8 with a very well defined upper envelope pointed to the upper right corner of the plot . to the left of this upper envelope",
    "there is a distinct feature that lies between @xmath9 ; @xmath10 and",
    "@xmath11 ; @xmath12 which shows strong correlation between the period and amplitude .",
    "this correlation resembles the @xmath13-amplitude scaling relation that has been extensively studied with _",
    "data from the main sequence to red giants ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .          in this section we present typical power spectra for the three groups of the wg12 sample .",
    "the reason for this is to illustrate the rich variety of the spectra , which indicates the complexity of m giant variability .",
    "we show spectra for four stars in each group in the three columns of fig .",
    "[ calculator of period04 to quantify the significance of each peak , following the method of @xcite . as can be seen in the middle column of fig .",
    "[ and a distinct set of significant peaks .",
    "note that the four panels in the middle column were sorted from top to bottom by the increasing average frequency of the acoustic signal ( roughly corresponding to the classical @xmath13 ) . here",
    "every spectrum contains very high peaks ( in relative sense ) between 0 and 0.046 @xmath29 .",
    "peaks near 0.031 @xmath29 correspond to the _ kepler_-year and they appear in almost every spectrum with smaller or higher amplitude . often there is another high peak near 0.008 @xmath29 , which is near to @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is the length of the full dataset .",
    "the acoustic signal emerges at higher frequencies in form of some sort of structured peaks at lower amplitudes but still significant compared to the local noise in the spectrum .",
    "spectra for group 3 are shown in the right column of fig . [ and 0.069 @xmath29 , i.e. periods between 150 and 400 days . in some cases ,",
    "we see the integer harmonics of the dominant peak , which is caused by the strong departure from the pure sinusoidal shape , characteristic for most of the mira stars .              as a last step we surveyed systematically the time - frequency distributions for all stars in the three groups .",
    "we searched for phenomena that are more difficult to detect with the traditional methods of time - series analysis , such as mode switching , amplitude modulation or frequency modulation . while a detailed study of all these phenomena is beyond the scope of the paper , we can demonstrate the typical cases in each group .    in fig .",
    "13 we show three examples from each group .",
    "the three groups were ordered in the subsequent rows from top to bottom .",
    "group 1 stars ( top row in fig .",
    "[ ) , the wavelet maps were calculated from 0.12 @xmath29 frequency ( without the long - period trends ) in order to get a clearer picture of the shorter and smaller amplitude variations between 1.16 - 5.74 @xmath29 , where the acoustic signal is dominant . here",
    "the random changes of the frequencies are very apparent , a behaviour that naturally arises from the stochastic excitation of the solar - like oscillations . for group 3 stars ,",
    "the available time - span only allows measuring the stability of the dominant peak , in good agreement with the mira character .",
    "in this paper we studied the global characteristics of light variations for 317 red giant stars in the _ kepler _ database , containing 198 already known variable stars observed by the asas north survey and 117 stars in a control sample selected based on their estimated physical parameters .",
    "the main results of this study :    1 .",
    "the study of m giants with _ kepler _ poses new challenges because of the time - scale of variability that is comparable to the length of the _ kepler _ quarters .",
    "most of the usual methods for correcting the trends and jumps are thus not applicable .",
    "after extensive testing we ended up with a simple light curve stitching method , which is based on linear fits at the edges of the quarters and then matching the quarter - to - quarter shifts for creating the smoothest possible light curves .",
    "we developed a software with a user - friendly gui , which made it easy to set the fitting parameters and stitch together each quarter .",
    "when the data contain missing quarter(s ) , no unique solution is possible .",
    "three years of observations revealed a so far unnoticed systematic fluctuation in the data , at the levels of up to 1 - 3% .",
    "we found that the period equals to one _ kepler_-year and the phase behaviour is clearly correlated with the position in the whole _",
    "field - of - view .",
    "it is not yet clear if a more sophisticated pixel photometry would be able to remove the artefact .",
    "we compared the data with various ground based photometries ( visual , asas ccd , aavso dslr , etc . ) and concluded that for the large - amplitude stars , _ kepler _ light curves can be matched very well with the ground - based data , but the amplitudes require a significant scaling by about a factor of two .",
    "_ kepler _ s main advantage for these slow variables is the uninterrupted observations at high - precision and high - cadence ( relative to the pulsation periods ) .",
    "we studied the distributions of periods , period ratios and amplitudes .",
    "there are several regular patterns in these distributions that can be explained by the presence of several pulsation modes , some possibly non - radial dipole or quadropole modes .",
    "we find evidence of a distinction between the solar - like oscillations and those larger amplitude pulsations characteristic for mira / sr stars in the period - amplitude plane .",
    "this may show the transition between two types of oscillations as a function of luminosity .",
    "the power spectra and wavelets reveal very complex structures and rich behaviour .",
    "peaks in the spectra are often transient in terms of time - dependent amplitudes revealed by the wavelet maps .",
    "the overall picture is that of random variations presumably related to the stochasticity of the large convective envelope .    with this paper we highlighted the global characteristics of m giant stars seen with _",
    "kepler_. there are several possible avenues to follow in subsequent studies . given the time - span and the cadence of the data , an interesting avenue of investigation is to perform a systematic search for rapid variability that can be a signature of mass - accreting companions .",
    "one of the archetypal types of such systems , the symbiotic binary ch cyg , has been both kasc target and guest observer target , and its data can be used as a template to look for similar changes in the full _ kepler _ red giant sample .",
    "another possibility is to quantify the randomness of the amplitude changes using detailed statistical analysis of the time - frequency distributions .",
    "this project has been supported by the hungarian otka grants k76816 , k83790 , k104607 and human mb08c 81013 grant of mag zrt . , esa pecs c98090 , ktia urkut_10 - 1 - 2011 - 0019 grant , the lendlet-2009 young researchers program of the hungarian academy of sciences and the european community s seventh framework programme ( fp7/2007 - 2013 ) under grant agreement no .",
    "269194 ( irses / ask ) .",
    "ad , rsz and gymsz have been supported by the jnos bolyai research scholarship of the hungarian academy of sciences .",
    "ad was supported by the hungarian etvs fellowship .",
    "rsz acknowledges the university of sydney irca grant .",
    "funding for this discovery mission is provided by nasa s science mission directorate . the kepler team and the kepler guest observer office",
    "are recognized for helping to make the mission and these data possible ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> m giants are among the longest - period pulsating stars which is why their studies were traditionally restricted to analyses of low - precision visual observations , and more recently , accurate ground - based data . here </S>",
    "<S> we present an overview of m giant variability on a wide range of time - scales ( hours to years ) , based on analysis of thirteen quarters of _ kepler _ long - cadence observations ( one point per every 29.4 minutes ) , with a total time - span of over 1000 days . </S>",
    "<S> about two - thirds of the sample stars have been selected from the asas - north survey of the _ kepler _ field , with the rest supplemented from a randomly chosen m giant control sample .    </S>",
    "<S> we first describe the correction of the light curves from different quarters , which was found to be essential . </S>",
    "<S> we use fourier analysis to calculate multiple frequencies for all stars in the sample . over 50 stars show a relatively strong signal with a period equal to the kepler - year and a characteristic phase dependence across the whole field - of - view . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret this as a so far unidentified systematic effect in the _ kepler _ data . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the presence of regular patterns in the distribution of multiple periodicities and amplitudes . in the period - amplitude plane </S>",
    "<S> we find that it is possible to distinguish between solar - like oscillations and larger amplitude pulsations which are characteristic for mira / sr stars . </S>",
    "<S> this may indicate the region of the transition between two types of oscillations as we move upward along the giant branch .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : variables : other  stars : agb and post - agb  techniques : photometric </S>"
  ]
}