{
  "article_text": [
    "a wealth of activity in the field of graphene , following the seminal work of novosolev and geim @xcite , has paved way for silicene @xcite , a silicon analogue of graphene .",
    "this new entrant might have a potential to begin another fertile direction in condensed matter science and technology . replicating a rich graphene physics , and seeing silicene as a ` carbon copy ' of graphene",
    "has been a part of recent efforts .",
    "stable silicene layer has been created on metallic substrates , ag , zrb@xmath3 and ir .",
    "interesting arpes and stm results have started coming out @xcite .",
    "as for germanene , fully hydrogenated stable germanane ( geh , analogue of ch , graphane ) layer with a wide band gap has been exfoliated @xcite .    finding a suitable low energy model for strongly interacting quantum matter continues to be a challenge . in these efforts , a careful look at the very experimental results that we wish to understand can guide us to correct modeling .",
    "experiments in turn get guidance from theoretical developments",
    ". the synergy continues .",
    "this is true from standard model building in elementary particle physics to standard model building for cuprate .",
    "silicene is no exception .",
    "currently prevalent view is that neutral silicene is a dirac metal , a semi - metal qualitatively similar to graphene @xcite .",
    "purpose of the present paper is to offer a different view point that neutral silicene is a mott insulator .",
    "if proved correct , our provocative proposal will make silicene different from semi metallic graphene in a fundamental fashion and open new avenues for physics and new technology , arising from strong electron correlations .",
    "it is well appreciated now , thanks to the path breaking discovery of high tc superconducting cuprates by bednorz and muller @xcite and subsequent resonating valence bond theory by anderson and collaborators @xcite , that mott insulators and strong electron correlations are seats of a variety of rich physics and phenomena .",
    "in addition to superconductivity it includes , quantum spin liquids , emergent fermions with fermi surfaces , gauge fields , quantum order , topological order and so on .",
    "further , inspired by certain recent theoretical development @xcite there is a debate and search for quantum spin liquids in honeycomb lattice hubbard model @xcite .",
    "we believe that silicene and germanene will fit well into the discussion as real candidate materials , albeit with some additional novel features .    several ab - initio calculations@xcite , many body theory @xcite and quantum chemical calculations - insights @xcite are available for silicene .",
    "interestingly there is a differing view , which has not been well appreciated .",
    "existing solid state many - body calculations predict stable free standing puckered silicene that is a semi - metal similar to graphene .",
    "however , quantum chemical methods and insights doubt existence of a stable free standing silicene @xcite because of radicalization / reactivity and reduced aromaticity , arising from a weakened p-@xmath0 bond .",
    "it is clear that theory of silicene is challenging and less understood compared to graphene , because of a growing importance of electron electron interaction and a soft c - axis displacement ( puckering ) degree of freedom , arising from possibility of sp@xmath9 mixing . to make progress ,",
    "known phenomenology and various insights need to be used .",
    "our model and theory is aimed to initiate new discussions , theoretical and experimental studies .",
    "the present article is organized as follows .",
    "we interpret certain existing theoretical results , mott s argument for mott transition and quantum chemical insights as providing support for our proposal of a narrow gap mott insulating state for neutral silicene .",
    "we also identify a set of anomalous experimental results that point to a mott insulating state : i ) a significant band narrowing of the p-@xmath0 bands below a robust ` dirac mass gap ' , around k and k points in the brillouin zone , seen in arpes of silicene grown on zrb@xmath3 @xcite , ii ) observation of a large _ superconducting _ gap at fermi level with an anomalous @xmath10 20 , in sts study of silicene on ag ( 111 ) surface , below 35 k @xcite , iii ) absence of landau level splitting in an sts study up to 7 tesla @xcite , iv ) ubiquitous and temperature dependent structural reconstructions @xcite and v ) appearance of _ fermi arc _ like pockets at m points on electron doping by alkali metal @xcite .",
    "we suggest a heisenberg model , also containing multi - spin interaction to describe spin dynamics of the narrow band mott insulator , and a tj model for the spin - charge dynamics of doped mott insulator .",
    "then we discuss the aforementioned experimental anomalies in the light of our model .",
    "prospects for high tc superconductivity , within our model , is discussed next . in view of a larger and favorable tj parameters , in comparison to layered cuprates ,",
    "there is a distinct possibility of _ a tc approaching room temperature scale _ provided competing interactions are taken care of .",
    "using existing works we come to the conclusion that superconductivity is likely to be a chiral spin singlet d + i d superconductivity .",
    "superstructures , not common in graphene but ubiquitous in silicene on substrates , are interpreted as arising from a strong response of c - axis deformable mott localized p-@xmath0 electrons , to substrate perturbations , through site dependent sp@xmath9 mixing .",
    "a model is also presented .",
    "the present paper assumes that tj model in 2d describes kosterlitz - thouless superconductivity for a range of doping . while there is no rigorous proof for this assumption , it is well certified by a body of analytical , numerical and experimental efforts available for the square lattice cuprates , ever since bednorz muller s discovery and the beginning of rvb theory .",
    "existing study on honeycomb lattice tj model indicate that spin singlet superconductivity continues to be a dominating phase over a range of doping , but with d + i d order parameter symmetry .",
    "our present work is a natural extension of our earlier work on graphene @xcite .",
    "it has been our view that graphite and graphene are semi - metals having an unusually broad band , should show striking electron correlation effects , even though electron - electron interaction strengths are moderate compared to the band width . according to us , _ reduced 2-dimensionality of graphene underlies the amplification of electron correlation effects_. our earlier prediction of spin-1 collective mode in neutral graphene @xcite and very high tc superconductivity in doped graphene @xcite are based on use of a moderate electron repulsion strength .",
    "our thesis in the present article is that 2d silicene and germanene , having @xmath11 of graphene band width , but @xmath12 of graphene coulomb interaction strength should exhibit even more striking electron correlation effects .    in a recent article",
    "we have suggested a _ five fold way _ to new high tc superconductors @xcite .",
    "one of the ways is _",
    "graphene route_. silicene and germanene are most likely to lie in the graphene route and might help us achieve room temperature superconductivity .",
    "starting with hexasilabenzene , si@xmath13h@xmath13 , a silicon analogue of benzene , chemists have wondered about existence of stable planar p-@xmath0 bonded si based molecules @xcite .",
    "their concern is that an increased si - bond length , a simple consequence of a 60 % increase in atomic radius , will weaken the p@xmath14 bond , leading to reduced aromaticity and increased chemically reactivity .",
    "it is also an experimental fact that free space si@xmath13h@xmath13 molecule has not been synthesized so far .",
    "silicene is an infinitely extended planar p-@xmath0 bonded network of si atoms .",
    "dft calculations and beyond argue for a stable free standing graphene .",
    "on the other hand , sheka in 2009 @xcite and hoffman @xcite very recently , have questioned stability and very existence of free standing silicene because of reduced aromaticity and enhanced radicalization .",
    "radicalization in quantum chemistry is creation of lone electron states in certain molecular orbitals in the ground state ; the loners are generically weakly coupled to other loners , if present . in the context of periodic systems such as a crystalline solid we interpret it to mean an extreme mott localization and formation of nearly decoupled spins . in the narrow gap mott insulating state",
    "we are envisaging for silicene , we do nt expect weakly coupled lone spins - there is a strong super ( kinetic ) exchange coupling and multiple ring exchange interactions among spins , as we will see .",
    "free standing silicene has not been seen experimentally . as mentioned earlier stable silicene on metallic substrates , ag , ir and zrb@xmath3",
    "have been synthesized . a possible key role of metallic substrate in stabilizing a silicene mono layer seen in experiments is an important issue that needs to be addressed further .",
    "in the following discussion we refer to a _ stable mott insulating single layer silicene _ in the following sense .",
    "we assume that metallic substrate stabilizes a single layer silicene and at the same time does not significantly modify the mott insulating character that we are after .",
    "in this section , using recent estimates of hubbard u , neighbor repulsions and mott s argument for metal insulator transition invoking screened long range coulomb , we will show that silicene is a mott insulator .",
    "we begin with a summary of basic quantum chemistry and band theory results for silicene .",
    "silicon , located just below carbon in the periodic table has a larger atomic radius @xmath1 1.17 @xmath2a , in contrast to a smaller value @xmath1 0.77 @xmath2 for carbon .",
    "this leads to a _ significant _",
    "3p-@xmath0 _ bond stretching _ : si - si distance is @xmath1 2.3 @xmath2 , while c - c distance is only 1.4 @xmath2 in graphene .    unlike graphene , si allows a small sp@xmath9 admixture to sp@xmath15 bonding , resulting in puckered sigma bonds .",
    "that is , si atoms of the two triangular sublattices of the honeycomb net undergo a small and opposite displacements , leading to a net c - axis stretching @xmath16 au .",
    "electronic structure calculations @xcite predict the above and a semi metallic band structure qualitatively similar to graphene , containing two dirac cones at k and k points . a major differences from graphene",
    "is a 3 fold reduction in the @xmath0/@xmath17 band widths .",
    "following a pioneering work of sorella and tosatti @xcite a recent estimate@xcite gives an accurate critical value @xmath18 3.8 , for metal to mott transition in hubbad model on honeycomb lattice . in a very recent many body theory schuler et al .",
    "@xcite estimate a value @xmath18 4.1 for silicene .",
    "this puts silicene on the mott insulator side , close to the phase transition point . however , schuler et al .",
    "argue that inclusion of nearest neighbor repulsion @xmath19 2.31 , will reduce u to an effective u@xmath20 = u - v and bring silicene back to a semi metallic state like graphene .",
    "in what follows we will show that on the contrary presence of finite v will hasten mott localization and reinforce a mott state at a first order transition .",
    "we use mott s argument @xcite for instability of the metal to the insulating state .",
    "the argument begins by asking whether _ screened coulomb interaction _ present in the metallic state is sufficient to form a quantum mechanical _ bound state of an electron to the hole it left behind at its home site_. within a hubbard model idealization this happens when band width becomes comparable to on site u ; it also means that at very large u every site binds a lone daughter electron . in mott s",
    "argument the transition is preempted by ( a growing ) less screened long range interaction , leading to a feed back and first order phase transition .",
    "this aspect is not contained in the simple hubbard model .",
    "let us assume that in addition to u we have a non - zero nearest neighbor coulomb interaction v , which is a leading component of the long range part of screened coulomb interaction .",
    "if we use mott s arguments , v will add to the already existing on site attraction u between an electron and the hole it left behind .",
    "this additional attraction ( widening the potential well ) will hasten bound state formation .",
    "very crudely , the on site hubbard u gets enhanced : u@xmath21 u + @xmath22v , where @xmath23 1",
    ".    thus we conclude , by what we believe to be a correct use of important estimates of schuler et al .",
    "@xcite that silicene is in the mott insulating side of the metal insulator transition point .",
    "we will discuss this point in some detail in a separate paper .      in this section we briefly review experimental results in silicene which are anomalous , from the point of view of a semi metal or dirac metal .",
    "but , as we will discuss latter , they are normal from mott insulator point of view .",
    "@xmath24 : in a work that has received a lot of attention , vogt et al .",
    "@xcite using arpes show presence of a dirac cone dispersion over a wide energy range below fermi level , with a v@xmath25 comparable to that in graphene .",
    "there is an ongoing debate @xcite on whether this is primarily a silicene p-@xmath0 band or primarily a ag metallic bands or a strong hybrid .",
    "we believe that a strong metallic screening from ag has caused an insulator to metal transition in silicene through _ self doping _ - we will address this issue in a later section .    on the other hand ,",
    "recent arpes study of silicene grown on zrb@xmath3 by fleurence et al .",
    "@xcite very different behavior .",
    "zrb@xmath3 is a low carrier density metal with small fermi pockets .",
    "it is expected to have less electronic influence on silicene .",
    "fleurence et al .",
    "find a remarkably narrow band around around k and k points ( marked x@xmath3 in figure 1b ) , lying below a finite gap @xmath1 0.3 ev .",
    "its spectral weight vanishes in two - third of the brillouin zone .",
    "further 3 silicene bands denoted by x@xmath26 , x@xmath3 and x@xmath3 all lie in a narrow energy interval of 0.5 ev .",
    "an extrapolation from the shape of the visible silicene bands give us a total band width @xmath1 1 ev .",
    "this is to be contrasted with the total @xmath27 band width of 6 ev as given by lda calculations .",
    "thus there is a band width renormalization by a factor of 6 .",
    "this spectrum is reminiscent of hole spectrum in mott insulating .",
    "@xmath28 : chen et al . have observed @xcite superconductor like gap structure in their sts study of silicene on ag and a tc @xmath1 35 to 40 k. they give convincing arguments in support of a gap arising from superconductivity .",
    "a large @xmath29 makes it anomalous .",
    "further experiments are needed to substantiate this important result .",
    "@xmath30 : an stm work @xcite in the presence of a magnetic field as large as 7 tesla , do not find an expected landau level splitting . in our view , a doped hole in a mott insulator looses nearly all its quasi particle weight because of the strong electron - electron interaction . we find that quasi particle line broadening , as inferred from experimental result is larger than the expected landau level splitting , making it invisible in sts measurements . in graphene , because of quasi particle coherence , one sees landau level structures for similar magnetic fields in the sts measurements .    @xmath31 recent experiments on silicene grown on metal surfaces exhibit @xcite lattice reconstructions , @xmath32 , @xmath33 , @xmath34 , 4 @xmath35 4 etc .",
    "they are temperature dependent and some of them exhibit phase transitions .",
    "further , reconstructions are accompanied by _",
    "space dependent sp@xmath9 mixing and consequent bond length modulation_. even within band theory there is no fermi surface .",
    "so a standard route for density wave instabilities namely fermi surface nesting is absent .",
    "this explains why reconstructions or cdw order is not seen in graphene .",
    "graphene is stiff , in view of a @xmath1 9 ev wide filled @xmath0-band and an associated large _",
    "aromaticity_. we suggest that p-@xmath0 electrons in silicene , because of mott localization , responds strongly to substrate perturbations by making use of the soft sp@xmath9 hybridization option and corresponding c - axis displacements .",
    "@xmath36 : electron doping in silicene deposited on znb@xmath3 by alkali metal leads to appearance of small fermi arc or pockets like features at the m points @xcite .",
    "this is not easily explained within lda band structure result .",
    "a doped mott insulator on the other hand , does not obey luttinger theorem in the usual fashion and can have unusual emergent fermi pockets and fermi arcs - a striking example is the under doped cuprates .",
    "thus we have some theoretical arguments and a few phenomenological facts in support of a mott insulator picture for neutral silicene . in the following",
    "we will build a model , address the above experimental observations from the mott insulator point of view .",
    "let us first discuss nature of the hypothesized mott insulating state of neutral silicene . from arpes",
    "experiment @xcite we estimate a mott hubbard gap of @xmath1 0.6 ev . in transition metal oxide and organic mott insulators , mott gap is often comparable to band widths .",
    "as the inferred mott gap , 0,6 ev is only a tenth of the total @xmath27 band width @xmath1 6 ev we call silicene as a _ a narrow gap mott insulator_.    in a mott insulator low energy degree of freedom are spins and spin - spin interaction arise from super ( kinetic ) exchange processes .",
    "one can estimate j , using the standard expression , j @xmath37 .",
    "the values , t @xmath1 1.14 ev and an effective u @xmath1 5 ev , discussed earlier for silicene , gives us a j @xmath38 1 ev . as j is comparable to the mott hubbard gap of 0.6 ev , a strong virtual charge density and charge current fluctuations will renormalize j to lower values . further , higher order cyclic exchanges will be also present .    ignoring spin - orbit coupling for the moment ,",
    "our effective spin hamiltonian in the mott insulating state is a spin - half heisenberg hamiltonian h_s = j _ ij ( * s*_i _ j - ) + 4  &  6  spin  terms if the nearest neighbor j dominates we will have long range antiferromagnetic order in the ground state . as recent results show , within nearest neighbor repulsive hubbard model one is unlikely to stabilize a spin liquid phase @xcite . in the present case relevant model",
    "is an extended hubbard model also containing effective non nearest neighbor hopping terms ; this is because of the extra charge and current fluctuations arising from unscreened coulomb interaction and narrow mott hubbard gap .",
    "this model is likely to support a spin liquid phase .",
    "however , as in cuprates , this may not be an important practical issue .",
    "this is because we expect that even a small density of dopants through their dynamics will destroy long range afm order and stabilize some kind of spin liquid state ( pseudo gap phase ) containing incoherent dopant charges .",
    "it is this tiny doping induced spin liquid state that will determine the nature of superconductivity over a range of doping .",
    "it is likely that a variety of spin liquids are around the corner .",
    "for dopant dynamics in a mott insulator , up to certain range of doping , a projective constraint arising from upper and lower hubbard band formation and surviving superexchange are important . thus the relevant model for doped mott insulator is the tj model : h_tj = - t _ ij ( c^_ic^_j + h.c . )",
    "+ j _ ij ( * s*_i _ j - n_i n_j ) with the local constraint @xmath39 2 or 0 , for hole and electron doping respectively .",
    "the value of j , t @xmath1 1 ev .",
    "it is known from the study of single hole dynamics in mott insulating cuprates that a free and coherent propagation of a doped hole or electron ( carrying its charge and spin ) is frustrated by the strongly quantum entangled spin background .",
    "this leads to a significant band narrowing and loss of spectral wight over a large part of the brillouin zone , as seen in arpes experiments @xcite and tj model calculations @xcite . for cuprates",
    "band theory gives a width of 8 t @xmath38 3 to 4 ev , while arpes results in the mott insulating cuprates give a band width of 2j @xmath1 0.3 ev ( essentially spin wave band width ) for holes .",
    "this is a substantial , ten fold reduction of hole band width .",
    "as we saw earlier arpes study on silicene grown on zrb@xmath3 gives a parabolic hole band at k point , about 0.3 ev below the fermi level ( band x@xmath3 in figure 1 b ) with a band width @xmath1 1 ev .",
    "comparing results with cuprates mentioned above , we get a j @xmath1 0.5 ev .",
    "this is in the right ball park , as our estimate of j @xmath1 1 ev .",
    "we start with tj model for our doped mott insulator in a honeycomb lattice and discuss superconductivity .",
    "interestingly , the above model ( equation 2 ) was studied in a mean field approach first in @xcite for graphite .",
    "later the present author independently studied the same model ignoring on site constraints @xcite as a semi microscopic way of incorporating pauling s spin singlet ( resonating valence bond ) correlations @xcite in planar _",
    "graphitic systems _ , within a band theory approach .",
    "it lead to a prediction of very high tc superconductivity around an optimal doping .",
    "our mean field theory result of high tc superconductivity for graphite was reanalyzed and confirmed by annica black - shaefer and doniach @xcite .",
    "they also found a remarkable spin singlet chiral superconducting state , namely a state with d + i d symmetry as the most stable mean field solution for the same range of doping .",
    "a more conservative repulsive hubbard model has been studied from superconductivity point of view using variational monte carlo method in reference @xcite , by us and collaborators for graphene .",
    "there are other important works addressing the same issue@xcite by different methods .",
    "they all support possibility of d + i d chiral spin singlet superconductivity .",
    "a very recent work @xcite studies tj model on a honeycomb lattice using a new and powerful variational approach using grassman tensor network states .",
    "it confirms d + i d superconductivity for tj model on honeycomb lattice for a range of doping .",
    "using available theory and insights we suggest a phase diagram ( figure 1 ) , qualitatively similar to cuprates , including the _ pseudo gap phase_. a new aspect for the honey comb lattice is presence of a van hove singularity and an associated nesting ( figure 1 ) at a doping of x = 0.25 .",
    "it has been suggested that this nesting might stabilize a complex magnetic order @xcite or charge density wave order .",
    "if our variational calculation @xcite performed for graphene , a doped semi - metal described by intermediate repulsive u hubbard model , is any guidance , maximum superconducting tc occurs already around 15 percent , somewhat similar to cuprates .",
    "the issue of scale of superconducting tc is very exciting and it holds some promise . as mentioned earlier we have an unusually large j @xmath1 1 ev and t @xmath1 1 ev for our honeycomb lattice .",
    "this is to be contrasted with a value of j @xmath1 0.15 ev and t @xmath1 0.25 ev for the square lattice cuprates , known for their record tc @xmath1 90@xmath40 k , for for single layer cuprates .",
    "we have an average 4 fold fold increase in t and j for silicene .",
    "does silicene offer a 4 fold increase in tc ?",
    "taking care of lattice structure difference between cuprate and silicene crudely , a scaling gives at least 3 fold increase of tc .",
    "thus room temperature scales for tc seems within reach , provided competing orders are taken care of .",
    "as in cuprates , we expect competing orders , charge and spin stripes to challenge the high tc superconducting states .",
    "further , as we will see , electron lattice interaction can cause patterns of vertical displacements of si atoms , arising from sp@xmath9 mixing , it is conceivable that there will be stripes and 2d patterns , corresponding to various valence bond orders .",
    "these valence bond localization tendencies will compete and reduce tc significantly .",
    "the only available , but remarkable indicator for superconductivity in silicene is an sts study .",
    "they find a tc in the range 30 - 40 k and a large gap of 35 mev ; that is , an anomalous value , @xmath41 .",
    "if we take the maximal gap value from this experiment and extract a mean field tc , using weak coupling bcs result , we get a number close to 200 k !",
    "we interpret this anomaly in @xmath42 , as due to a superconducting state with a large local pairing gap but with tc reduced by a strong phase fluctuations arising from a static or low frequency local competing orders .",
    "this needs to be investigated theoretically and experimentally further .",
    "there are recent suggestions of superconductivity in silicene based on different mechanisms @xcite .",
    "we wish to point out that liu et al .",
    "@xcite have theoretically possibility of spin fluctuation induced chiral d + i d superconductivity in _ neutral _ bilayer silicene . in their mechanism ,",
    "intra layer hopping between the two dirac metallic layers produce small electron and hole pockets around k and k points . in our theory",
    "such a bilayer will remain insulating with an additional feature of a spin gap induced by a strong interlayer exchange coupling ( spin singlet bond formation between si atoms along c - axis ) .",
    "external doping or gate doping by very strong electric fields applied perpendicular to the layers will be needed to create superconductivity in the mott insulating bilayers .",
    "as discussed earlier silicene differs from graphene through presence of a soft sp@xmath9 mixing and mott localized p-@xmath0 electrons .",
    "both these features make p-@xmath0 electrons react strongly to substrate or other perturbations .",
    "the sp@xmath9 mixing is accompanied by puckering of sigma bonds and c - axis displacements .",
    "this is the reason behind a variety of silicene layer reconstructions and patterns of sigma - bond puckerings observed in experiments on silicene .",
    "experimentally @xcite , to a good approximation , there are three types of c - axis displacements of si sites , with reference to an unpuckered flat honeycomb lattice of si - atoms : i ) zero , ii ) + a@xmath43 and iii ) - a@xmath43 .",
    "we represent them as @xmath44 by a _ pseudo spin-1 _ ising variable @xmath45 for a given site i. experimentally the displacement a@xmath46 . in the absence of other perturbations",
    "ideal equilibrium puckered structure has a value @xmath47 for sub lattice a and b respectively , or symmetry related opposite displacements .",
    "however , in stm measurements , at low temperatures one sees modification of the above ideal equilibrium structure , where we have different patterns of c - axis displacements or corresponding pseudo spin patterns .",
    "for example , in the most common @xmath48 reconstructed state sub lattice a has a value @xmath49 , two third of sub lattice b sites have @xmath50 and rest of the b sub lattice sites have a value @xmath51 .",
    "interestingly , in this case , to leading order in c - axis displacement there is no change in si - si bond length . to this extent",
    "the electronic spin state of the mott insulator is not affected . however , in 4 @xmath35 4 reconstructions , a sub lattice of flat hexagons coexist with flat dimers and puckered bonds . in the context of a spin liquid state , 4",
    "@xmath35 4 view can be viewed as a quantum spin liquid containing a valence bond density wave and a hexagonal plaquette resonances density wave .    to discuss structural distortions",
    "we introduce a simplified model , a tj model coupled to pseudo spin degree of freedom representing c - axis displacement , arising from sp@xmath9 admixture : h & = & k a_0 ^ 2 _ ij _ i _ j - k_0 a_0 ^ 2 _ i _ i^2 - + & - & _ ij t ( 1 +",
    "_ t a_0 ^ 2 ( _ i - _ j)^2 ) ( c^_ic^_j + h.c . ) + + & + & j _ ij ( 1 + _ j a_0 ^ 2 ( _ i - _ j)^2)(*s*_i _ j - n_i n_j ) in the above model we treat @xmath52 s as independent variables .",
    "this is an approximation .",
    "we have ignored local ( plaquette type ) constraints which maintain overall planarity and connectedness of the structure .",
    "first two terms in equation 3 are lattice energies arising from site dependent @xmath53 hybridization and c - axis displacements a@xmath54 . as an approximation",
    "we assume sharp c - axis displacements a@xmath54 and assume them to be classical as si atoms are heavy .",
    "experimentally and theoretically a@xmath55 0.4 au . the parameters and k@xmath43a@xmath56 are k a@xmath56 are positive @xmath1 100 mev , as we estimate using lda results .",
    "c - axis displacements modulate t and j. we ignore , as a first approximation , ab - plane displacements resulting from c - axis displacements . from symmetry ,",
    "leading change in hopping matrix element is quadratic in relative displacement along c - axis @xmath57 .",
    "our estimate of the parameter @xmath58 5 au .",
    "it is straight forward to perform rvb mean field theory and get solutions corresponding to various distortions seen in experiments .",
    "we will not go into details of the results in the present paper .",
    "the repeated observation of dirac cone feature in silicene and silicene nanoribbon on ag surface might indicate that silicene has undergone a mott insulator to metal transition in view of a large screening coming from the metallic ag substrate .",
    "we will view silicene deposited on ag as a self - doped mott insulator .",
    "earlier we introduced this notion @xcite to describe mott insulator to superconductor transition in certain organic salts , driven by pressures . in the present case",
    ", a strong metallic screening by ag creates an _ electronic pressure _ on silicene causes metalization .    in what follows",
    "we discuss self - doped mott insulator briefly .",
    "mott insulator to superconductor transitions in real systems generically occur as a strong first order phase transition , as a function of physical or chemical pressure .",
    "as mentioned earlier , first order transition ows its origin to the often ignored long range coulomb interaction and madelung energy considerations , not contained in simple hubbard model .",
    "interestingly , the metallic state that exists close to first order transition point is best viewed as a mott insulator that has",
    "_ doped itself_. that is , it has spontaneously generated _ a small and equal density of holons and doublons _ to gain delocalization and madelung energy .",
    "density of self doped carriers are generically small , so that the upper hubbard band survives in the optical conductivity , @xmath59 , for example . further superexchange also survives .",
    "metalicity appears as a small drude peak , in the background of a mott insulator like @xmath59 .",
    "it is a projected state where , in the background of a mott insulator , a small and equal density of holons and doublons delocalize and coexist as a single phase , but _ without annihilating each other_. we developed a 2-species tj model to describe the physics of such a metallic and superconducting state .",
    "when self - doping is increased , for example by pressure , the system can go into a over doped and less correlated fermi liquid like state and loose superconductivity .",
    "what makes self - doped mott insulators interesting is that they behave like an externally doped mott insulator exhibiting all rich physics such as high tc superconductivity , pseudo gap phase etc .",
    "we can not exclude the possibility that silicene , grown on metallic substrate is a self - doped mott insulator .",
    "this should be kept in mind in future discussions .",
    "germanium lies below silicon in the periodic table .",
    "carbon , silicon and germanium have atomic radii 0.77 , 1.17 and 1.22 @xmath2 respectively .",
    "correspondingly the 4p-@xmath0 bond is weakened further .",
    "ab - initio calculations for germanene leads to a few percent enhancement of ge - ge bond length , but a substantial increase of puckering and c - axis stretching from @xmath1 0.4 @xmath2 in silicene to @xmath1 0.6 @xmath2 in germanene .",
    "there is a small reduction in @xmath0 and @xmath17 band widths from 3 to 2.5 ev .",
    "all things being quantitatively nearly equal at the level of model , germanene should be a narrow band mott insulator .",
    "consequences we have discussed so for , including possibility of quantum spin liquid and high tc superconductivity on doping should be anticipated . on the experimental front , only fully hydrated geh , germanane has been synthesized and exfoliated .",
    "germanene has not been synthesized so far .",
    "following the example of silicene , it is important to look for suitable metallic substrates and try synthesize a stable germanene .",
    "to summarize , we have hypothesized that silicene and germanene are narrow gap mott insulators , unlike the wide belief that they are dirac metals , like graphene . in making our proposal",
    "we have relied heavily on a synthesis of existing theoretical work and phenomenology . we have used arpes and stm results .",
    "mott s arguments , quantum chemical insights and extensive theoretical study of graphene and silicene has helped us in our proposal . using known results we discussed various solutions for our model , including spectral function of a hole in a mott insulator , absence of landau level splitting , superconductivity and so on .",
    "unconventional superconducting order namely d + i d and high tc s was also discussed .",
    "we also introduced a model to discuss structural reconstructions , that is also ubiquitous in silicene and nearly absent in graphene .",
    "an important support for mott localization comes from our translation of the quantum chemical results of sheka to solid state terminology .",
    "sheka studies nano silicene clusters and finds an extensive radicalization .",
    "radicalization is extracted using a procedure that uses spin polarized ( antiferromagnetic ) ab - initio solutions .",
    "this interesting quantum chemical approximation is less known in solid state context .",
    "as indicated earlier we equate _ radicalization in finite systems to mott localization in extended solid state context_. thus sheka s finding of extensive radicalization and alleged unstable silicene is a conservative evidence for narrow gap mott insulator formation and strongly exchange coupled spins .",
    "we have ignored spin - orbit coupling in the present paper , simply to focus on the key physics of strong correlations .",
    "spin orbit coupling will play its own , important unique role , some what different from standard band insulator or semi metal . within the context of semimetallic graphene interesting consequences of spin orbit coupling",
    "are being studied @xcite .",
    "direct and indirect methods should be used to unravel an underlying mott insulator .",
    "optical conductivity , @xmath59 measurement is an urgent one .",
    "it should focus on finding signatures on hubbard band features",
    ". it will be interesting to confirm the existing claim of superconducting gap in sts measurements .",
    "reconstructions should be studied carefully to distinguish valence bond density wave and plaquette resonance density waves .",
    "pseudo gap physics needs to be explored using nmr and nqr measurement",
    ". our tantalizing prediction of very high tc superconductivity reaching room temperature scales needs to be explored .",
    "this needs ways of understanding and overcoming unavoidable competing instabilities such as spin and charge stripes .",
    "next major experimental and theoretical challenge is to see whether a free standing silicene exists and if it can be synthesized and studied .",
    "can one stabilize germanene in the lab at least on a substrate ?",
    "i am not aware of any real material for which tj model parameters are as large as we have suggested for silicene and germanene , t and j @xmath1 1 ev .",
    "so we consider silicene and germanene as forefront materials in the race for room temperature superconductivity .    * acknowledgement * i thank prof .",
    "yamada - takamura for giving permission to reproduce a figure from @xcite and dr ayan datta for a discussion .",
    "i thank dae ( india ) for a rajaramanna fellowship .",
    "this research was supported by the perimeter institute for theoretical physics .",
    "k. s. novoselov , a. k. geim , s. v. morozov , d. jiang , m. i. katsnelson , i. v. grigorieva , s. v. dubonos and a. a. firsov , two - dimensional gas of massless dirac fermions in graphene , nature ( london ) , * 438 * , 197 ( 2005 )                  p. vogt , paola de padova , c. quaresima , j. avila , e. frantzeskakis , maria carmen asensio , a. resta , b. ealet , and guy le lay , silicene : compelling experimental evidence for graphenelike two - dimensional silicon , phys .",
    "* 108 * , 155501 ( 2012 )                                              a. grassi , g. m. lombardo , r. pucci , g. g. n. angilella , f. bartha , and n. h. march , stretched chemical bonds in si6 h6 : a transition from ring currents to localized -electrons ?",
    "chemical physics , * 297 * , 1319 ( 2004 )    n. h. march and a. rubio , structural and electronic properties of low - dimensional c - nanoassemblies and possible analogues for si ( and ge ) , journal of nanomaterials , article i d 932350 , doi:10.1155/2011/932350 ( 2011 )          z majzik , m. r. tchalala , m svec , p hapala , h enriquez , a kara , a j mayne , g dujardin , p jel nek and h oughaddou , combined afm and stm measurements of a silicene sheet grown on the ag(111 ) surface , j. phys .",
    "condens . matter .",
    ", * 25 * 225301 ( 2013 )                        b. o. wells , z. -x .",
    "shen , a. matsuura , d. m. king , m. a. kastner , m. greven , and r. j. birgeneau , e versus k relations and many body effects in the model insulating copper oxide sr2cuo2cl2 , phys .",
    "* 74 * , 964967 ( 1995 )    t. c. choy and b. a. mckinnon , significance of nonorthogonality in tight - binding models .",
    "ii . the possibility of high - tc superconductivity in intercalation compounds , phys . rev .",
    "* b 52 * , 14539 - 14543 ( 1995 )          w. s. wang , y.y .",
    "xiang , q.h .",
    "wang , f. wang , f. yang , and d.h .",
    "lee , functional renormalization group and variational monte carlo studies of the electronic instabilities in graphene near 1/4 doping , phys . rev . * 85 * , 035414 ( 2012 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> combining theoretical considerations and certain striking phenomenology we hypothesize silicene and germanene to be _ narrow gap mott insulators _ and abode of quantum spin liquids and unconventional superconductivity . a weaker @xmath0-bond , because of a 60 % bond stretching , from @xmath1 1.4 @xmath2 in graphene to @xmath1 2.3 @xmath2 in silicene renders mott localization . </S>",
    "<S> a supporting theoretical analysis is presented . </S>",
    "<S> recent experimental results are invoked to provide additional support for our mott insulator modeling : i ) a narrow band of width @xmath1 1 ev lying below k points in arpes of silicene on zrb@xmath3 , ii ) a superconducting gap seen below 35 k with a large @xmath4 20 in silicene on ag , ii ) emergence of electron like pockets at m points on electron doping by na adsorbents and iii ) absence of landau level splitting up to 7 tesla and v ) superstructures , not common in graphene but ubiquitous in silicene . a synthesis of the above results using theory of mott insulator , with and without doping , is attempted . </S>",
    "<S> we surmise that if competing orders are taken care of and optimal doping achieved , superconductivity in silicene and germanene could reach room temperature scales , as our estimates of tj model parameters , t and j @xmath1 1 ev , are encouragingly high .    2 cuo@xmath5 4@xmath6   2o@xmath7   3@xmath8 </S>"
  ]
}