{
  "article_text": [
    "a good knowledge and understanding of the chromosphere is essential for making progress in the questions of chromospheric and coronal heating . studying the chromosphere",
    "is made challenging by the fact that only few spectral lines in the visible and ir spectral ranges accessible from the ground are formed there . of these even fewer sample the middle and upper chromosphere ( hei 10830 , h@xmath2 , caii lines ) .",
    "therefore , it is of considerable interest to explore further avenues .",
    "besides lines in the vacuum ultraviolet , e.g. the ly alpha and neutral carbon and oxygen lines , observed by e.g. sumer @xcite or vault @xcite , another source of information on the chromosphere are the h and k lines of mgii .",
    "these lines are expected to sample a large height range , reaching from the lower to the upper chromosphere , but observations made in these lines are rare due to their inaccessibility from ground . in the mid-1970s ,",
    "space - based observations of mgii h&k spectra were carried out with the lpsp instrument onboard the oso-8 mission @xcite , followed in the early 1980s by observations with the ultraviolet spectrometer and polarimeter ( uvsp ) onboard the solar maximum mission @xcite . a somewhat higher spatial resolution ( one or more arcsec )",
    "was reached with the 30  cm telescopes of the balloon - borne spectrograph rasolba @xcite in 1986 as well as with the sounding - rocket experiments hrts-9 in 1995 @xcite and the solar ultraviolet magnetograph investigation ( sumi ) in 2010 @xcite .",
    "mgii h&k spectra and slit jaw images are also being recorded with the 20  cm telescope of the interface region imaging spectrograph ( iris ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which was launched on 2013 june 27 , i.e. after the images discussed here were taken .",
    "in this paper we present the first high - resolution mgiik images of quiet and active solar regions which were recorded with the sunrise filter imager ( sufi ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) during the second science flight of the balloon - borne observatory sunrise @xcite in june 2013 .",
    "its 1  m primary mirror makes sunrise the largest solar telescope to have left earth s surface .",
    "the second science flight of the ballon - borne solar observatory sunrise started on 2013 june 12 from esrange near kiruna in northern sweden .",
    "it reached a mean float altitude of @xmath3 km , allowing seeing - free observations in the visible and near - ultraviolet spectral range .",
    "after a total flight time of 127 hours , the balloon landed safely in boothia , a peninsula in northern canada .",
    "technical details of the 1  m aperture gregory telescope are described by @xcite .",
    "image stabilization and feature tracking were achieved by the gondola s pointing system in conjunction with a six - element shack@xmath4hartmann correlating wavefront sensor ( cws ) which controlled the telescope s focus mechanism , and a tip / tilt mirror @xcite .",
    "the observations presented here were taken by the sunrise filter imager ( sufi ; * ? ? ?",
    "some of the filters from the 2009 flight , described by @xcite , were replaced to put more emphasis on the chromosphere .",
    "of greatest interest for the purposes of the present paper is the addition of a filter with a full - width - half - maximum ( fwhm ) of @xmath1 centered on @xmath0 .",
    "figure  [ fig1 ] displays the filter profile overplotted on the solar spectrum ( average plage ; * ? ? ?",
    "the filter covers the core of the mgiik line , but also gets a minor contribution from mgiih and part of the wings of the two lines , as well as some weak photospheric absorption features . due to the strength of the emission core ,",
    "this provides much of the signal in the filter , although the wings also contribute .",
    "note that in the quiet sun the contribution of photospheric features ( reversed granulation ) dominates for broad - band filters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in plage regions the chromospheric contribution is enhanced due to the increased strength of the mgii h&k emission peaks .",
    "another important change was the inclusion of a second wavelength band centered on the core of the caiih @xmath5 , in addition to the @xmath6 wide filter that already flew on the 2009 flight .",
    "the new @xmath7 wide filter gets more contribution from the h@xmath8 and h@xmath9 features .    here",
    "we present first results from the mgiik channel .",
    "further descriptions of instrumentation updates relative to the 2009 flight as well as of the flight and the full data set obtained will be given elsewhere .",
    "the mgiik line lies in the hartley absorption band of ozone , close to the maximum of absorption around @xmath10 . even at the float altitude of sunrise",
    ", there is sufficient stratospheric ozone to significantly attenuate the sunlight reaching the telescope ( we estimate roughly by @xmath11 orders of magnitude , based on the modelling by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . to reduce the influence of this absorption , we restricted observations of mgiik to times around local noon , when the solar elevation was above @xmath12 , and scheduled ballast drops to the morning hours to ensure that the payload was at maximum altitude around local noon .",
    "since sunrise s flight trajectory lay to the north of the arctic circle , the sun s elevation never exceeded about @xmath13 .",
    "even after these measures , the mgii images needed to be integrated for @xmath14s and the s / n rarely exceeded 25 - 30 in the quiet sun .",
    "we concentrate here on the first presentation of the mgii images and compare them with sufi s caiih and @xmath15 observations .",
    "the @xmath15 filter was unchanged compared to the 2009 flight and we refer to @xcite for further details .",
    "sufi is equipped with a phase - diversity ( pd ) prism .",
    "after the images were dark - current corrected and flat - fielded , they were pd reconstructed using individual wavefront errors ( level-2 data , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for more details ) .",
    "all intensity images were normalized to the intensity level of the mean quiet sun , @xmath16 , defined as the average of the whole image .",
    "sufi s plate scale is 0@xmath170207  pixel@xmath18 and the field of view ( fov ) was about 15@xmath1939 .",
    "the flight altitude of on average @xmath20 km provided seeing - free observations , nonetheless the pointing accuracy was changing due to varying shear wind strength , so that the cws control loop could not be closed all the time . in total we got 105 focussed magnesium images during the 2013 flight from which we show one of the highest resolution ones obtained in a quiet part of the sun , at solar disk center , in figure  [ fig2 ] .",
    "it looks qualitatively similar to high - resolution images recorded in caiih , e.g. during the first sunrise flight @xcite : it is criss - crossed by brightenings roughly on the granular scale . in between are bright points present at various locations in the internetwork . these appear to be similar to caiih bright points ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "a concentration of bright features is visible near the top of the frame in a strong network element .",
    "the resolution of the image is approximately 0@xmath172 .",
    "this value is deduced from both , measuring the sizes of the smallest visible structures and from the cut - off of the noise filter in the pd reconstruction , which is self - consistently computed from the data @xcite .",
    "this resolution , although considerably higher than previous images taken in mgii h or k , is below the diffraction limit .",
    "it is _ a priori _ unclear if the low resolution is mainly due to accumulated jitter during the @xmath14s exposure , or if it is caused by the evolution of the chromospheric structures during the exposure .",
    "note that gondola - jitter was largest around local noon , when the telescope was pointing upward at a slanting angle , a less stable configuration than at times when the sun was closer to the horizon and the telescope pointed more horizontally .",
    "the rms intensity contrast of the displayed region is 24.2% .",
    "this value is higher than the contrasts obtained by @xcite in caiih ( 21 - 22% ) .",
    "the comparison is not so clear - cut , however , due to the higher activity level during the 2013 flight , and possibly a difference in spatial resolution . in order to judge the effect of having an increased number and size of network features ( possibly enhanced network ) in the field of view of the mgiik data , we additionally determined the rms contrast exclusively of clearly internetwork features , e.g. the region between 12 and 30 in the y direction of fig .",
    "this gave a value of 19.1% which is at the lower end of the caiih intensity contrasts found by @xcite , who did not explicitly exclude network features from their data .",
    "therefore , disregarding the different filter widths for mgiik and caiih observations , the resulting rms intensity contrasts are very similar .",
    "the grey scale in the right panel of figure  [ fig2 ] is limited to three times the rms range of the image which leads to a better visibility of reverse granulation ( or possibly shock waves ) that we find at the mg wavelength .",
    "note that in the lower part of the figure a similar structure is present as had first been noticed by @xcite in caiih images obtained during the 2009 flight of sunrise : there are often 2 parallel bright stripes , between which a dark lane is located ( see the encircled example ) .",
    "obviously the mgiik line displays a similar structure .",
    "this structure may have to do with the width of the filter , since the monochromatic synthetic mgii images computed by @xcite do not display this feature .",
    "we detected 42 bright points ( bps ) with the manual method used by @xcite and determined their peak intensities .",
    "the mean bp peak intensity in mgiik was found to be @xmath21 , the highest value being @xmath22 .",
    "these values are considerably higher than the contrasts found by @xcite in the caiih core , with an average contrast of approximately @xmath23 and a maximum value of @xmath24 .",
    "note , however , that the caiih contrasts were obtained in the broad @xmath6 filter ; as we shall see below the mgiik images are more strongly reminiscent of the images recorded with the narrower @xmath7 caiih filter .",
    "the bps in mgii have a mean width of 0@xmath1755 .",
    "this value is larger than the mean found in caii images by @xcite ( 0@xmath1735 ) and 0@xmath172 by @xcite .",
    "the latter authors restricted themselves to particularly small bps ( only those with diameters @xmath25@xmath173 were considered ) .    .",
    "the grey scale covers the full intensity range in the left panel , while it covers only three times the rms range of the image in the right panel , so that the brightest features are saturated .",
    "this view enhances the weaker structures .",
    "the oval marks a feature discussed in the text . ]",
    "nearly simultaneous sufi observations at the wavelengths of mgii @xmath0 , the narrow ( @xmath7 ) band caii @xmath5 , and @xmath15 are displayed in figure  [ fig3 ] .",
    "the fov exhibits , in addition to quiet granulation , two intrusions of plage around y=10 and y=30 .",
    "while the @xmath15 wavelength is mainly formed in the deep photosphere and shows normal granulation in the quiet regions , the mgii @xmath0 and caii @xmath5 wavelengths obviously look more chromospheric , i.e. the granulation pattern is reversed , although some of the bright structures may be signatures of shock waves .",
    "the contrast is higher and the bright features are more diffuse than in the photosphere .",
    "furthermore , the bright features are also more diffuse in mgiik than in caiih . in the lower part , below 10 , of the two chromospheric panels we find first stirrings of loop - like structures .",
    "these are clearly more pronounced in the mgii line than in caii .",
    "since the solar scene is not totally quiet , the rms intensity contrast calculated over the entire mgii image , 29.8% , is distinctly higher than in figure  [ fig2 ] . for the caii @xmath5 and @xmath15 image",
    "we find 22.5% and 20.4% , respectively .",
    "interestingly , these last two values are not higher than what @xcite found in the quiet sun . for @xmath15",
    "this is acceptable since the density of bps is relatively low when averaged over the whole fov .",
    "however , for caii it is surprising since the wavelength band of this image is narrower than at the time of the 2009 flight .",
    "one implication may be that either the features become more diffuse at the greater heights sampled by caii in the narrower filter , or that this particular image is less sharp than some of the sharpest ones from the first flight of sunrise .",
    " wavelength bands observed by sufi on june 12 at 12:25  ut . the telescope pointed to a region at disk center with patches of quiet sun alternating with bands of plage . ]",
    "fibrils become clearly visible when observed nearer to the limb in regions of high magnetic activity .",
    "this is displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] , in which a part of ar11768 is depicted , observed at @xmath26 .",
    "the field - of - view was located between the main sunspots of the active region . while the photospheric @xmath15 image shows numerous faculae that are typical of active regions at higher heliocentric angles , the two chromospheric images clearly reveal a forest of bright chromospheric fibrils .",
    "the fibrils in this figure are more diffuse in mgii than in caii as demonstrated by the intensity cuts across fibrils in fig .",
    "note that the structure along the fibrils ( e.g. due to finite length of the fibrils ) looks rather similar in both the mgii and caii .     but observed on june 16 at 13:13  ut while the telescope pointed to a plage region between the two sunspots of ar11768 ( @xmath26 ) .",
    "the white arrow in the top right corner of the image points towards the disk center .",
    "the white lines in the bottom part mark the cuts shown in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] . ]    : mgii - dotted line , caii - solid line , @xmath15 - dashed line . ]",
    "we have presented the first high - resolution images of the solar atmosphere taken in the mgiik line .",
    "these were obtained with the sufi instrument on the sunrise balloon - borne solar observatory during its second science flight that took place on 12 - 17 june 2013 .",
    "the atmospheric absorption by stratospheric ozone is still very strong , even at altitudes above @xmath20 km , so that long integration times were needed , and only images with relatively low s / n were obtained .",
    "the images display a pattern that may be due to reversed granulation or shock waves in the quiet - sun internetwork , very similar to interference - filter images taken in the core of caiih .",
    "figure  3 of @xcite , who computed the mgii h&k lines in a snapshot from a radiation mhd simulation carried out with the bifrost code @xcite , displays such a pattern at the mgiik2v and k2r wavelengths , but not in the mgiik3 image .",
    "this suggests that the sunrise / sufi mgiik filter samples the k2 peaks much more than k3 , which is not surprising given the greater strength of the peaks and their larger spectral coverage .",
    "the rms contrast in mgiik of these very quiet regions is 19.1% , obtained after masking out network areas in quiet sun images .",
    "this is very close to the rms contrast of the quiet sun obtained by @xcite in caiih , also with sunrise / sufi during its first science flight in 2009",
    ".    at disk center mgiik also shows bright points at the same locations at which such features are seen in the photospheric @xmath15 line and in the core of caiih .",
    "these bps are considerably brighter in mgii than at other wavelengths .",
    "mgiik provides a mean contrast of @xmath27 , which is considerably higher than the values of @xmath28 and @xmath29 found by @xcite in caiih and at @xmath30 , respectively , the two wavelengths displaying the largest bp contrasts during the first sunrise flight .",
    "this makes the mgiik line very promising for identifying and tracking small - scale magnetic features , although the structures may be more diffuse than at photospheric heights ( see below ) .",
    "note , however , that the computations of @xcite , do not display any particular brightening at the footpoints of the emerging bipole in k2v and k2r .",
    "one of the footpoints is bright in k3 , but the picture is quite different from the observations .",
    "we speculate that the difference has to do with the width of the sufi filter , which samples also considerable portions of the inner wings of the mgiik line .",
    "these are formed mainly in the upper photosphere , where kilo - gauss magnetic features appear as bright point - like structures .",
    "the mg images also display fibrils emanating from plage regions .",
    "the presence of such fibrils had been predicted by @xcite .",
    "not unexpectedly , the density of fibrils increases very strongly from k2v and k2r to k3 .",
    "the density of fibrils in our images is closer to that in k2v and k2r , although only a very qualitative comparison can be carried out , since we find that the density of fibrils depends very strongly on the magnetic activity level ( i.e. on how strong the plage is ) .",
    "this is in line with the behaviour of caiih . also , possibly the fibril density is larger closer to the limb ( this will have to be studied in future investigations ) . at disk center",
    "the fibrils seen in mgii are more pronounced than in caiih ( see , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* for a study of the fibrils seen in caiih ) .",
    "features in mgiik are more diffuse than in caiih .",
    "e.g. , the bps have an average size of 0@xmath1755 , which is significantly larger than in caii @xcite .",
    "we expect the following possible reasons for this : because a ) mgii is formed higher in the chromosphere than caii @xcite or b ) because of the much longer exposure time of mgii images , which allows the features to evolve during the exposure , or c ) due to residual jitter not completely compensated by the image stabilization system",
    ". a study of these causes as well as a more detailed and quantitative comparison between mgii and caii will be the topic of a separate paper ( danilovic et al . in preparation ) .    in summary , a very first analysis of some of the images recorded by sunrise during its 2013 flight",
    "has shown that observations of the mgiik line with a @xmath1 interference filter provide a qualitatively similar picture as obtained from the narrowest interference filter observations of the caiih line core .",
    "however , there are considerable quantitative differences , partly due to the different formation of the lines , partly due to observing constraints",
    ". it will be interesting to continue such an analysis using data from both sunrise and the iris mission .",
    "the german contribution to the sunrise reflight has been funded by the max planck foundation , the innovations fund of the president of the max planck society ( mpg ) and private donors , which is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "the spanish contribution has been funded by the spanish micinn under the project aya2012 - 39636-c06 .",
    "the hao contribution has been partly funded through nasa grant number nnx13ae95 g .",
    "this work has been partly supported by the wcu grant ( no .",
    "r31 - 10016 ) funded by the korean ministry of education , science & technology ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first high - resolution solar images in the mgiik @xmath0 line . </S>",
    "<S> the images , taken through a @xmath1 broad interference filter , were obtained during the second science flight of sunrise in june 2013 by the sufi instrument . </S>",
    "<S> the mgiik images display structures that look qualitatively very similar to images taken in the core of caiih . </S>",
    "<S> the mgii images exhibit reversed granulation ( or shock waves ) in the internetwork regions of the quiet sun , at intensity contrasts that are similar to those found in caiih . </S>",
    "<S> very prominent in mgii are bright points , both in the quiet sun and in plage regions , particularly near disk center . </S>",
    "<S> these are much brighter than at other wavelengths sampled at similar resolution . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , mgiik images also show fibril structures associated with plage regions . </S>",
    "<S> again , the fibrils are similar to those seen in caiih images , but tend to be more pronounced , particularly in weak plage . </S>"
  ]
}