{
  "article_text": [
    "hydrodynamic approach on event - by - event ( ebe ) basis has shown to be very successful to describe the global and collective features of the data from relativistic heavy - ion collisions , particularly of the behavior of the fourier components of flow pattern @xmath0 as a function of centrality and transverse momenta data @xcite .",
    "such a success of the hydrodynamic approach leads to the expectation that we can determine from a detailed hydrodynamic analysis of experimental data , the initial dynamics of the collisions together with the properties of qcd matter created , such as the equation of state ( eos ) and transport coefficients .",
    "on the other hand , these successes brought us several new interesting questions and mysteries .",
    "the most crucial one is why at all the hydrodynamic approaches work so well for such violent and almost microscopic collisional processes .",
    "it is commonly believed that the fundamental hypothesis for the validity of hydrodynamics is the local thermal equilibrium ( lte ) .",
    "if this is true , and the hydrodynamic evolution is the unique scenario for the description of the collision dynamics , then we are led to conclude that the thermalization time and correlation length should be extremely small .",
    "these would imply a very important consequence for the further understandings of the qcd dynamics at extreme conditions . for aa collisions this could still be acceptable , but surprisingly , the recent alice experiment reports that the behavior of collective flow in the pa data seems to be almost the same as that of aa collisions @xcite .",
    "this casts a very serious question for the proper physical meaning of hydrodynamic description in pa collisions or , even in aa collisions @xcite .",
    "let us denote the conserved four - current density by @xmath1 satisfying the continuity equation , @xmath2 .",
    "we consider the minkowsky coordinate , @xmath3 with metric the @xmath4 .",
    "the energy - momentum tensor @xmath5 of the system also conserves , @xmath6 .",
    "although these 4 equations are far enough to determine the time evolution of these quantities , but in some special physical situations , the total number of variables reduces drastically .",
    "suppose that , in the landau frame ( that is , the energy flow rest frame ) , the spatial part of @xmath7 becomes isotropic for any @xmath8 .",
    "furthermore , the rest frames for the matter and energy current coinside . in such a situation , by introducing the equation of state ( eos ) which establishes a functional relation among the local quantities , @xmath9 and @xmath10 , as @xmath11 , we obtain the closed set of equations .",
    "this is called the ideal hydrodynamics and the explicit forms of the time evolution equations are , @xmath12and @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the time - like eigenvector of @xmath15 with @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 and @xmath19 .    in the above ,",
    "the assumption that eos @xmath11 is locally satisfied in the strict sense is somewhat a very severe condition .",
    "for example , when we consider the hydrodynamic description of the relativistic heavy - ion collisions , the size of the typical fluid element can not be taken too much smaller than that of the whole system , otherwise the degree of freedom contained in the fluid element becomes too little for any thermodynamical quantities to be defined .",
    "furthermore , the time scale of the collective motion can not be much larger than the microscopic one because of the very rapid expansion in relativistic heavy - ion collisions .",
    "then , a given fluid element suffers from large fluctuations and inhomogeneity in terms of the microscopic configurations and it will be difficult to ignore the deviation from the thermodynamic limit in eos .",
    "however , we will argue in below that the hydrodynamic responses in , for example , the collective flow do not necessarily require the strictly local eos in the ebe basis .    for example , let us consider a classical microscopic system which contains a large number of quickly moving point - like particles .",
    "then , the density @xmath20 is a sum of the dirac delta functions .",
    "however , we usually do not require a very precise resolution both in space and in time to describe the collective flow behaviors .",
    "thus we introduce an averaged smooth density distribution @xmath21 from the original distribution @xmath22 using a 4 dimensional smoothing kernel with limited support@xcite @xmath23 @xmath24 typically @xmath25 and @xmath26 are given by the gaussian distributions with , respectively , width @xmath27 and @xmath28 , which characterize the scales of the time and space resolutions .",
    "similarly , the smoothed spatial current vector @xmath29 can be defined , satisfying the continuity equation , @xmath30 .",
    "using these current and density , the four - current , @xmath31 and the proper density , @xmath32 can be composed . the smoothed four - velocity field",
    "is then defined as @xmath33 . on the other hand",
    ", the smoothed energy - momentum tensor @xmath34 can be introduced in analogous way as the convolution of the original @xmath35 using the same smoothing kernel .",
    "such energy - momentum tensor again satisfies the continuity equation , @xmath36 . from this smoothed energy - momentum tensor",
    ", we can calculate the smoothed proper energy density as @xmath37 .",
    "the smoothed proper energy density defined in this way is an average of the energy density observed in the rest frame of the _ matter _ flow .",
    "the average is taken over all contributions within the range of the coarse - graining scale in space - time . in terms of the hydrodynamic modeling ,",
    "we take these smoothed quantities as the dynamical variables to represent the coarse - grained system@xcite .",
    "let us consider one collision event which is characterized by a microscopic state .",
    "then we can calculate these hydrodynamic variables of this state following the method described above .",
    "however , it is obvious that there exist many different microscopic configurations which give the same hydrodynamic response .",
    "let us prepare the set of collision events described by microscopic configurations which gives a given four - current @xmath38 at the initial time @xmath39 , and call this set @xmath40 .",
    "if we calculate @xmath41 at a space - time point @xmath8 for each event in @xmath40 , each value of @xmath41 is not same in general .",
    "this is true even for the time evolution , @xmath42 with @xmath43 .",
    "however , if the coarse - graining size is increased , the number of the microscopic configuration in the ensemble @xmath40 at the point @xmath8 becomes sufficiently large so that @xmath41 and @xmath44 distribute sharply around their mean - values , @xmath45 and @xmath46 , respectively , as a consequence of the central limit theorem .",
    "furthermore , since @xmath41 and @xmath46 are the average energy and matter densities belonging to the same fluid element , we expect that they have a strong correlation , in such a way that @xmath45 can be expressed as a function of @xmath47 @xmath48 .",
    "suppose that the fluctuations in @xmath41 and @xmath38 are not important in the way that the system is characterized basically by the densities @xmath49and @xmath45 .",
    "in such a case , we expect that the most promising dynamics will be determined by the optimization of the model action , @xmath50 it is known that this procedure reproduces the model of the ideal hydrodynamics @xcite . as a result",
    ", the dynamics of the system belonging to a given @xmath40 is described by the hydrodynamic model as the consequence of the coarse graining . there , the realization of lte is not required for real ebe basis .",
    "when the effect of the fluctuations in @xmath41 and @xmath38 plays an important role , see sec .",
    "as shown above , the hydrodynamic description in heavy - ion collisions reduces to a coarse - grained dynamics obtained by the optimization of the model action ( [ modelaction ] ) under the assumption of the existence of an effective eos , @xmath51 .",
    "therefore , the success of ideal hydrodynamic modeling of relativistic heavy ion collisions depends on the consistent choice of the assumed eos and the model action .",
    "these two conditions will be satisfied for a broader range of microscopic configurations than that required by the real `` local thermal equilibrium '' .",
    "on the other hand , the size of @xmath40 depends on the coarse - graining scale . for larger @xmath40 ,",
    "the two conditions have a better chance to be satisfied .",
    "we however loose the better resolution in the space - time recognition for larger coarse graining size .",
    "in fact , we can not observe the inhomogeneities with smaller wavelength than the coarse - graining scale .",
    "this affects directly the class of observables that the model can describe . even though some observables might be insensitive to the inhomogeneities in each event . as an extreme example , we take the situation where the coarse - graining size is larger than the system size and total time evolution",
    ". then the ensemble @xmath40 can be regarded as the statistical ensemble of the whole system itself , and the resultant system is a simple fire - ball model . the thermal model for the particle ratio can be considered in this category .",
    "the coarse - graining size is thus intimately related to the class of observables and the validity of hydrodynamic description . for some observables which do not require a precise space - time resolution ,",
    "the real ebe hydrodynamics with lte is not necessary and the effective hydrodynamic description for the statistical ensemble @xmath40 will be sufficient for the understanding of the physics of these observables . as a matter of fact , the experimental observables are usually averaged over collision events classified in terms of the initial configuration rather loosely defined , such as centrality , event plane , etc . in other words , the present collective flow data are still of inclusive nature . in order to claim that the real hydrodynamics with lte is valid",
    ", we need to have observables that reflect the genuine hydrodynamic profile in ebe basis .",
    "for example , the remnant of a sharp shock wave propagation , if exists , would be a good evidence and it also tells the possible coarse - graining size of the collective flow , since a shock wave is a genuine local hydrodynamic phenomena .",
    "the shock thickness should not be larger than the coarse - graining scale of the collective flow .",
    "the key point is that when we apply the hydrodynamic modeling , we do not know a priori the coarse - graining scale suitable for the flow variables in the real scenario .",
    "this puts a certain limitation in extracting the meaningful information of the initial condition . for this purpose , it is essential to find out the set of observables which carry the information on the inhomogeneities of the initial conditions on the ebe basis .",
    "the flow parameters @xmath0 , often called `` event - by - event '' analysis , in the sense that correlations among different observables measured for each event in coincidence , but there still exists a huge statistical ensemble which gives the same observed correlation .",
    "for example , the cumulant method to determine the flow parameters eliminates the information of event plane . in the recent paper , it is pointed out that event plane may differ in low and high @xmath52 domain @xcite , according to the coarse graining scale . if it can be experimentally measured , it would furnish some information on coarse graining scale in heavy - ion collisions .",
    "within the vision that hydrodynamic evolution is an effective dynamics for coarse - grained variables for the energy - momentum tensor , each real collisional event is an element of the statistical ensemble @xmath40 and does not obey a unique time evolution equation due to the difference in the microscopic degrees of freedom to which our macroscopic hydrodynamic variables are blind . when the fluctuation of events in @xmath40 is large , they should be taken into account in the determination of dynamics of coarse - grained hydrodynamic variables .",
    "then the variation procedure in eq .",
    "( [ modelaction ] ) should be modified so as to include the effect of the fluctuation which was ignored in sec .",
    "the stochastic variational method ( svm ) is known as an appropriate approach for such situations@xcite .    in svm",
    ", we have to introduce two stochastic differential equations ( sde ) , one for the forward direction in time ( fsde ) , @xmath53and the other , backward in time ( bsde ) , which describes the time reversed process of fsde , @xmath54 where @xmath55 is the strength of the noise and @xmath56 and @xmath57 are the independent wiener processes . @xmath58 and @xmath59 are the velocity fields for the forward and backward sdes , respectively .",
    "these two sdes are necessary to accommodate the fixed initial and final boundary conditions in the variational procedure .",
    "therefore , trajectories specified in the two sde should describe the same physical ensemble . to satisfy this condition",
    ", the two fokker - planck equations which are derived from fsde and bsde should be equivalent .",
    "this leads to the consistency condition , @xmath60where @xmath61 is the particle density which is given by the solution of the fokker - planck equation .",
    "svm proposes to determine these velocity fields from an action through the variation principle .",
    "we started from the classical action which leads to the ideal euler equation for a non - relativistic fluid , @xmath62   , \\ ] ] where @xmath63 is the lagrangian coordinate associated with the fluid element @xmath64 and @xmath65 is an internal energy density , @xmath66 is the jacobian between @xmath67 and @xmath68 , and the mass density is defined by @xmath69 .",
    "the spatial integral is done over the initial position @xmath68 of fluid elements , weighted by the mass density @xmath70 .",
    "the corresponding stochastic lagrangian density is given by @xmath71   -j\\varepsilon .",
    "\\label{l}\\ ] ] here @xmath72 and @xmath73 is arbitrary constants , come from the ambiguity for the stochastic representation of the kinetic term .",
    "the corresponding action is an average over the whole sde solutions , and the variation is taken with respect to the unknown fields , @xmath58 and @xmath74 with the constraints that they coincide with the so - called conditional average velocity fields , @xmath75 and @xmath76 .    after applying svm",
    ", we obtain @xmath77 where @xmath78 , @xmath79 and @xmath80 . the pressure @xmath81 is defined by @xmath82 .",
    "one can see that the second term on the left hand side corresponds to the viscosity and this equation is reduced to the navier - stokes ( ns ) equation when we set @xmath83 .",
    "that is , the fluctuation effects which were ignored in sec .",
    "3 induces the effects of viscosity in accordance with the fluctuation - dissipation theorem . for other results of different values of @xmath84 ,",
    "see ref . @xcite .",
    "in this work , we studied some fundamental questions of hydrodynamic approach to the description of relativistic heavy ion collisions , in particular , the validity and meaning of lte .",
    "we introduced explicitly the coarse - graining procedure for the hydrodynamic modeling together with its variational formulation . in this picture , the collective flow patterns can be reproduced without requiring the lte in a strict sense .",
    "that is , the hydrodynamic behavior observed in relativistic heavy - ion collisions does not necessarily imply the realization of lte .",
    "we further discussed possible signals for coarse graining scale and genuine hydrodynamic behaviors on event by event basis .",
    "for example , the remnant of a sharp shock wave propagation would be a good observable which tells the possible coarse - graining size of the collective flow .",
    "another example is to determine the event plane for different transverse momentum domain .",
    "finally we showed that the coarse - graining is intimately related to the origin of viscosity and this effect can be formulated in the variational method extending dynamical variables to stochastic domain . in order to quantify the questions raised here",
    ", it will be useful to perform the analysis of coarse - graining described in this work for a certain microscopic model which gives complete dynamical evolution of the energy - momentum tensor , such as phsd@xcite .",
    "this work is supported by cnpq , faperj and pronex of brazil , and also a part of the work has been supported by emmi - helmholtz institute , germany .",
    "9    s. paiva et al . , phys . rev .",
    "c 55 , 1455 ( 1997 ) ; c.e .",
    "aguiar , et al . ,",
    "phys . a 698 , 639 ( 2002 ) ; r. andrade , et al .",
    "97 , 202302 ( 2006 ) ; r. andrade , et al . ,",
    "jr . , braz .",
    "37 , 717 ( 2007 ) ; j. takahashi , et al .",
    "103 , 242301 ( 2009 ) ; d.j .",
    "wang , et al . , arxiv:1205.4934 ( 2012 ) ; z. qiu , et al .",
    "b 707 , 151 ( 2012 ) ; b. alver and g. roland , phys . rev .",
    "c 81 , 054905 ( 2010 ) ; d. teaney and li yan , phys .",
    "c 83 , 064904 ( 2011 ) ; b. schenke , et al . ,",
    "108 , 252301 ( 2012 ) ; a. dumitru and y. nara , phys .",
    "c 85 , 034907 ( 2012 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we address the physical meaning of hydrodynamic approach related with the coarse graining scale in the frame work of variational formulation . </S>",
    "<S> we point out that the local thermal equilibrium does not necessarily play a critical role in the description of the collective flow patterns . </S>",
    "<S> we further show that the effect of viscosity is also formlated in the form of the variational method including fluctuations . </S>"
  ]
}