{
  "article_text": [
    "fusion energy has the potential to provide clean and abundant power for future generations@xcite .",
    "many designs have been suggested to make this a reality : these include the tokamak@xcite and inertial confinement@xcite .",
    "current facilities attempting to realise these designs are , respectively , the international thermonuclear experimental reactor ( iter ) in france , which is under construction , and the national ignition facility ( nif ) in california . regardless of design",
    ", any fusion reactor would have to withstand the intense neutron radiation iter is predicted to produce a flux rate of at least 1 mw m^-2^ at its walls@xcite , equivalent to fifty thousand 14.1 mev neutrons incident per square centimetre every nanosecond .",
    "thus , it is critical to find materials that are resistant to neutron radiation at elevated temperatures .",
    "there have been a large number of other experiments on irradiated ods @xcite balance of experimental evidence suggests that ods steels exhibit a lower level of swelling and creep than equivalent steels without ods dispersoids .",
    "for example , a strong candidate material for the inner wall of a fusion reactor is the eurofer97 ferritic / martensitic steel , a chromium - rich iron alloy .",
    "oxide dispersion strengthened steels@xcite based on eurofer97 can be constructed through a sequence of mechanical alloying and hot isostatic pressing processes to incorporate yttrium oxide into the metal@xcite .",
    "these ods steels typically hold between between 0.3 and 0.5% yttrium oxide by weight@xcite , and are remarkably durable , with the form of yttria grains remaining stable after 590 mev proton irradiation up to doses of 1.0 displacements per atom ( dpa)@xcite .",
    "these experiments have observed the increased yield stress of ods steels compared to the standard eurofer97 steel to be further enhanced under this level of irradiation .",
    "other improvements include increased ultimate tensile strength , by a factor greater than 1.5 , persisting up to 650@xmath2c ; the creep strength at 700@xmath2c is equal to that of the base steel at 600@xmath2c@xcite and a 30 - 40% greater yield strength@xcite .",
    "some less ideal properties of the ods steel include a reduced elongation on fracture at high temperature and raised ductile - to - brittle - transition temperature , rendering the ods steel brittle at room temperature , has been observed@xcite .",
    "however , both high temperature elongation and ductility can be improved by the inclusion of titanium impurities@xcite .",
    "these properties of ods steel suggest that reactor operating temperature could be increased by 100k or more , compared to the base eurofer97",
    ".    suggested reasons for the radiation resistance exhibited by ods steels have been summarised by schublin@xcite .",
    "one idea is that the oxides provide a catalyst for annihilation of the structural defects ( vacancies and sias caused by radiation ( see section 2 ) .",
    "this could either be due to some attraction between the oxide and the defects , or altered defect dynamics at the interface boundary combined with the high density of particles .",
    "another idea is that the disorder already brought about by the oxide dispersions in the steel structure make further disruptions caused by radiation less effective in weakening the material .",
    "a third is based on the original purpose of ods : that the increased density of pinned dislocations aids recombination",
    ".    we investigate the recombination - catalyst idea for the idealised case of ferritic iron and pure yttrium oxide ( y@xmath3o@xmath4 .",
    "we use density functional theory ( dft ) simulations of possible interfaces between the oxide and the metal .",
    "this allows for modelling of the behaviour of radiation induced defects near the interface . in particular , the question to be answered is whether these atomic scale methods will be able to provide an explanation for the impressive performance of ods steels under irradiation . additionally , it would be desirable if this explanation would give a clue to improving these materials properties .",
    "pure iron has a simple body - centred cubic lattice structure up to 1043 k , which contains the entirety of the operating temperature limits for a fusion reactor wall @xcite .",
    "a 14.1mev neutron penetrate deep into the metal and eventually collide with a lattice atom , this initiates a `` displacement cascade '' which creates vacancy and sia defects in equal numbers .",
    "@xcite    the displacement cascade is a rapid process ( of order picoseconds ) .",
    "further migration of vacancies and sias , mainly by diffusion , happens over a timescale of order nanoseconds@xcite .",
    "this is still short compared to operating times , so is important to consider the equilibrium result of such processes : if the vacancies and sias were likely to find their frenkel partner , recombine , and annihilate , then the metal should essentially return to its original structure ; however , if defects instead formed large clusters of a single type this could result in formation of voids , dislocation loops or swelling , possibly weakening the material in the process . defects can be trapped at grain boundaries or surface , so for an ods particle to effect the diffusion , there concentration must be such that there are many such particles in each grain .",
    "atomic impurities dispersed throughout the metal play a significant role in point defect dynamics@xcite . from elastic considerations , one might expect that substitutional impurities would attract sias , and oversized substitutional and interstitial defect attract vacancies .",
    "however , the stable sia configuration iron is the ( 110 ) dumbbell , which has a quadrupole strain field with both tensile and compressive regions - thus the sia binds to most impurities . moreover",
    ", the magnetic structure of iron can lead to complex binding where the idea of `` big '' or `` small '' atoms is oversimplistic - for example cr behaves like an undersized defect interacting with defects , but when added to fe increases the lattice parameter ; ni is exactly opposite@xcite .",
    "recent dft simulations@xcite , in iron lattices , have shown well defined trends across the periodic table for defect binding in both fcc and bcc iron .",
    "the structure of pure yttrium oxide , @xmath5 , is described by the @xmath6 space group,@xcite which has body - centred symmetry .",
    "this structure can be represented by an 80 atom cubic unit cell , with a lattice constant of 10.604 @xmath7,@xcite or a 40 atom primitive cell .",
    "specifically , the 32 yttrium atoms in the cubic unit cell are on the wyckoff 8a @xmath8 and 24d @xmath9 sites , with oxygen atoms at 48e @xmath10 .",
    "previously obtained values of lattice parameter ( @xmath11 ) @xmath12 are given in table [ xyzu].@xcite    .[xyzu]comparison of structural parameters for yttrium oxide obtained through various methods@xcite . rounding to the nearest @xmath13",
    "the parameters can be approximated . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     as progressively more atoms are removed from the interface , the integrity of the layer itself is compromised .",
    "trivially , removing ( or adding ) 16 atom from / to an iron layer ( and allowing for a realigning relaxation ) is exactly equivalent to recreating the perfect interface , and would have zero `` energy per defect '' .",
    "15 vacancies would be equivalent to one interstitial etc .",
    "an interesting conformation is to remove a complete row of 6 atoms at the klimfe - o - y , essentially creating a misfit dislocation .",
    "this resulted in an energy increase of 3.19 ev ( 0.53ev / vacancy )",
    "dft is now well established as a reliable technique for describing these types of material , so the agreement with experiment for the perfect materials and superior stability of the klim interfaces is no surprise .",
    "the large planar separation , high particle density and low misfit strain are contributing factors to its stability .",
    "stoichiometry makes it impossible to define the stable interface : the klim - fe - o - y termination is certainly more stable than the average of klim - fe - o - o and klim - fe - y - o interfaces .",
    "however reconstruction suggests that the double - oxygen layer at the klimfe - o - o is least favoured , probably due to low binding between the double oxygen layer , so klim - fe - y - o may be low energy .",
    "electronic wavefunctions are attenuated before the second plane of atoms .",
    "this suggests that the interface is sharp , and electronic effects do not significantly affect the electronic structure away from the interface .",
    "thus most long - range behaviour could be attributed to ` physical ' rather than ` chemical ' effects .    for nuclear applications , the most important results concern the energetics of point defects .",
    "in all cases both sia and vacancy defects are much more stable at the interface than in the bulk iron , and multiple defects can be accommodated simultaneously . moreover , if a full layer of fe atoms is created / removed the interface is perfectly restored , so there is no effect dues to sink strength bias . crucially , unlike grain boundaries , surfaces and other sinks , the oxide nanoparticle is unaffected by the flow of defects .",
    "incoming vacancies were not observed to trigger the outward diffusion of y or o atoms into the steel .",
    "consequently , ods particles are perfectly capable of absorbing defects without contributing to swelling , hardening , creep etc .",
    "thus our calculations provide strong evidence in favour of the catalyst model of the action of ods particles @xcite    furthermore , the energy gradients in figure [ fig : vaccost ] for the ( 100 ) interfaces and numerous barrier - free pathways for inward migration of sias near iron - yttrium interfaces suggest a long range ` attraction ' of the interface to point defects@xcite .",
    "we note that additional alloy elements present in eurofer97 were not considered .",
    "in fact , an energy - dispersive x - ray study on the eurofer97-based ods steel has shown that the chromium and vanadium present in the alloy form thin shells around the nanoparticles@xcite , presumably attracted by the strain fields .",
    "these elements have their own attraction for point defects , and consequently could be important in modifying the interface properties .",
    "unfortunately , this possibility has had to be neglected in this present investigation .    in sum",
    ", our study shows that the ods - fe interface has a strong attraction for vacancy and interstitial defects , and provides strong support for a `` catalytic '' model of point defect removal and consequent radiation resistance .",
    "we wish to acknowledge the use of the epsrc funded chemical database service at daresbury@xcite , and the ukcp collaboration for supercomputer time ( hector ) .",
    "this work was inspired by the fp7-getmat project .",
    "m. homma in future prospects of nuclear fusion energy , proc . of the 2nd int .",
    "symp . on lib .",
    "arts and general edu .",
    "kyoto university , eds .",
    "harvey and l. partridge , p24 2011 p. helander et al .",
    "plasma phys .",
    "control fusion 54 124009 ( 2012 ) l. j. perkins et al , phys .",
    "103 045004 ( 2009 ) f. w. perkins et al .",
    "fusion 39(12 ) 2137 ( 1999 ) r. l. klueh et al , j. nucl . mater .",
    "241 103 ( 2005 ) m. klimiankou et al , j. of crystal growth 249 381 ( 2003 ) r. lindau et al . j. nucl .",
    "mater 307 769 ( 2002 ) r. schublin et al .",
    "mater 351 247 ( 2006 ) g. s. was `` fundamentals of radiation materials science : metals and alloys '' , isbn 978 - 3 - 540 - 49471 - 3 , berlin heidelberg : springer - verlag p155 ( 2007 ) c. domain and c. s. becquart , phys .",
    "b 65 , 024103 ( 2001 ) c.c.fu , f.willaime and p.ordejon phys.rev.letters , 92 175503 ( 2004 ) t.p.c .",
    "klaver , d.j . hepburn and g.j .",
    "ackland , phys .",
    "b*85 * , 174111 ( 2012 ) .",
    "p. olsson , c. domain and j. wallenius , phys.rev.b 75 014110 ( 2007 ) a. claisse and p. olsson , j.nucl.mater .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nimb.2013.01.016 , in press ( 2013 ) y jiang , j.r.smith and g.r.odette , phys.rev b 79 , 064103 ( 2009 ) a. gopejenko , nanodevices and nanomaterials for ecological security , eds . y. n. shunin and a. e. kiv , springer , dordrecht , p149 , ( 2012 ) l.malerba , et al .",
    "406 , 1 , 7 ( 2010 ) d.j.hepburn , g.j .",
    "ackland and p.olsson phil.mag 89 34 - 36 3393 ( 2009 ) d. murali , b.k .",
    "panigrahi m.c .",
    "valsakumar , s. chandra , c.s .",
    "sundar , and b raj j. nucl .",
    "mater 403 , 13 , 113 ( 2010 )                , intermetallics , 7 , 423 - 436 , ( 1999 ) g. kresse and j. hafner , phys .",
    "b * 47 * , 558 ( 1993 ) ; p.e .",
    "blchl , phys .",
    "b * 50 * , 17953 ( 1994 ) ; g. kresse and d. joubert , phys . rev .",
    "b * 59 * , 1758 ( 1999 ) .",
    "j. p. perdew , k. burke , and m. ernzerhof phys .",
    "77 , 3865 ( 1996 ) l. zhu , q .- m .",
    "hu , r. yang , g. j. ackland : j. phys chem c 116 4224 - 4233 ( 2012 ) x.m .",
    "bai et al . , science 327 5973 1631 ( 2010 ) ; g. ackland , science 327 5973 1587 ( 2010 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> ods steels based on yttrium oxide have been suggested as potential fusion reactor wall materials due to their observed radiation resistance properties . presumably this radiation resistance can be related to the interaction of the particle with vacancies , self - interstitial atoms ( sias ) and other radiation damage debris . density functional theory has been used to investigate this at the atomic scale . </S>",
    "<S> four distinct interfaces , some based on hrtem observations , between iron and yttrium oxide were investigated . </S>",
    "<S> it is been shown that the y@xmath0o@xmath1-fe interface acts as a strong trap with long - range attraction for both interstitial and vacancy defects , allowing recombination without altering the interface structure . </S>",
    "<S> the catalytic elimination of defects without change to the microstructure explains the improved behaviour of ods steels with respect to radiation creep and swelling . </S>"
  ]
}