{
  "article_text": [
    "with the aim of further checking the dynamical model of trapezium - type stellar systems proposed by allen and poveda @xcite , we decided to apply the novel diffracto - astrometry ( da ) technique , developed by ( * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * in preparation ) , to obtain the relative motions of the most emblematic trapezium - type system : the orion trapezium ( ot ) = ads 4186 . in order to do this , we acquired precise measurements of the relative positions between the six brighter stars ( components a to f ) of this system .    in the past , support for this model was found by @xcite and @xcite . in both these papers ,",
    "studies of the relative motions of trapezium - type systems were undertaken .",
    "the work of these authors along with other contributions ( e.g. @xcite ) has provided enough evidence to support this model .",
    "thus , we decided to perform a study similar to that of @xcite using historical as well as modern hubble space telescope data .    to obtain precise measurements of the relative positions of the ot components ,",
    "we have made use of the high quality images in the hst wide field planetary camera 2 ( wfpc2 ) public archive .",
    "due to the fact that the ot is the trapezium - type system best studied in the astronomical literature , we also use the historical compilation of ot data contained in the washington double star catalog ( wds ) maintained by @xcite .",
    "the majority of the images in the hst  wfpc2 archive that contain the ot was intended to study the orion nebula and the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) and , therefore , have long exposure times which result , in most cases , in saturated images of the ot components .",
    "this fact , rather than being a disadvantage , works towards our advantage , because these stellar images show diffraction spikes which are used by the da technique to measure the position of the stars with a precision of @xmath1 pix @xcite .",
    "the diffraction spikes are produced by the supports of the secondary mirrors of both the telescope and the wfpc2 .",
    "these effects , together with stellar image saturation , usually preclude the application of standard astrometric techniques to these images .    in section 2 we present a brief description of the da technique , section 3 presents the astrometric data used to obtain the relative motions of the ot components .",
    "section 4 contains the kinematical results and , finally , in section 5 we present our conclusions .",
    "in the past there have been attempts to perform astrometry as well as photometry on saturated sources in hst images .",
    "for example , @xcite used the diffraction spikes to do astrometry with a precision of 0.5 pixels ; gilliland proposed a way to calibrate the use of the diffraction spikes to locate the photocenter of a saturated stellar image . both @xcite and @xcite",
    "have developed somewhat different methods for obtaining photometry of saturated sources on hst images .",
    "the results appear promising .",
    "however , up to now , a definitive technique for obtaining high precision astrometric measurements has not been available .",
    "diffracto - astrometry is a technique developed with the intention of obtaining high precision measurements of relative stellar positions on saturated stellar images @xcite . to establish a position for a saturated stellar image",
    ", da utilizes in principle both the diffraction spikes and the diffraction rings on the images .",
    "so far , we have only explored the use of the diffraction spikes to determine the photocenter of saturated stars on hst  wfpc2 images of the ot .",
    "this technique recovers the positions of the photocenters taken as the intersection of a pair of lines fitted to the structure of the diffraction pattern ; see @xcite and @xcite for details .",
    "the application of the da technique to the measurement of relative stellar positions on archival hst images requires an algorithm to ensure minimum systematic errors in the results ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* in preparation ) .",
    "the measuring algorithm is designed to detect only those sections of the spikes that present a large contrast .",
    "if at some point the faint spikes of any component are heavily interfered by the glare of a brighter component , or if their contrast is too low , the algorithm simply discards these spikes and the measurement can not be carried out . on several images , particularly those with short exposure times in narrow  band filters ,",
    "the stellar spikes are not present for every star or their contrast is too low ; thus , it was not possible to measure every star on every hst image used .",
    "there exist a number of systematic errors associated with the wfpc2 measurements which have been extensively analyzed in the past .",
    "the most important are : geometric distortion @xcite , the 34th row error @xcite , charge transfer efficiency ( cte ) @xcite , and plate scale variations @xcite .",
    "the ot images used in this analysis were corrected for geometric distortion and the 34th row error using the formulae given by the listed above authors . in the case of geometric distortion , there are published transformation coefficients only for filters f300w , f555w and f814w . for those images taken with other filters ,",
    "the distortion coefficients used were those pertaining to the nearest filter in wavelength , for which such coefficients exist in the literature .",
    "it is known that cte affects astrometry in advanced camera for surveys wide field channel ( acs / wfc ) @xcite . however , to our knowledge , there is no correction for cte effects on wfpc2 astrometry @xcite .",
    "in addition , according to @xcite , `` images with high background signal suffer relatively little charge loss because the background signal fills the traps and prevents them from robbing the charge packets during readout . ''",
    "since the ot region is projected over the orion nebula , the background that these images have is relatively high ( @xmath2 for images with exposure times @xmath3 ) , rendering the cte effect negligible even for the fainter e and f component spikes .    in order to account for possible changes in plate scale due to the use of different wavelengths , we have used all the plate scales reported in table  5.10 of @xcite , and obtained interpolated values for other filters .",
    "in this paper we use ot astrometric data , position angle ( pa ) and separation , from two different sources . one is the historical compilation of the wds , maintained by @xcite ; the second is data obtained by us applying the da technique to ot wfpc2 saturated images . in both these compilations , the pa values are referred to the north celestial pole at their corresponding epoch .",
    "hence , the measured pas were precessed to j2000.0 using the expression given by @xcite for objects located far from the celestial poles , which is the case of the ot .",
    "the maximum correction applied , to the earliest epoch , amounts to @xmath4 .",
    "separations and position - angles between ot stellar pairs were obtained from the wds .",
    "data in this compilation are given with no uncertainties , so we selected only those for which we can assign realistic errors .",
    "for this reason , we only used data for those observers classified as  best \" and  good \" in table 1 of @xcite .",
    "as stated by these authors , the error bars in separation were assigned by c. worley `` based on a life ",
    "time of experience '' . in that study ,",
    "only the measures for the relative separations were used , because the historical position angles were considered less reliable .    in the present study ,",
    "the uncertainties for the historical pa observations were estimated from the dispersions of different measurements by the same observer , pair of components , and epoch .",
    "these measurements were found to be considerably less reliable than those for the separations .",
    "the hst public database ( mikulski archive for space telescopes ) was meticulously inspected in order to find orion trapezium images with the highest astrometric quality .",
    "the selection criteria were the following : ( i ) we only use images taken with the wfpc2 . since the wfpc2 is fixed on the axis of the hst , the images taken with it have a very good optical quality ; ( ii ) the ot image must be present in one of the 4 detectors , to avoid inter - chip errors due to different reference frames ; ( iii ) the stellar components to be measured must not lie within the first @xmath5 _ x _ and _ y _ pixels ; in this region the pyramid mirror makes it impossible to perform accurate astrometry ; ( iv ) the background of the images must be @xmath2 in order to avoid position shifts due to cte losses and , ( v ) the diffraction pattern produced by the supports of the secondary mirrors ( of both telescope and camera ) , must be present in at least two images of the ot components .",
    "we used 44 images that fulfilled these criteria .",
    "these images were downloaded in waivered fits ( c0f.fits ) format , and were already calibrated by the standard pipe - line procedure .",
    "their characteristics are listed in table  1 .",
    "^*^frames used as reference for each epoch listed in tables 2 and 3 .",
    "[ t1 ]    images are distributed in eight epochs , spanning from 1995 march 21 , to 2007 november 6 .",
    "56% of the images were taken in 1995 , 16% in 2007 , and the rest during different years of the observing period ( 19952007 ) .",
    "the images have a mean exposure time of @xmath6120 seconds .",
    "68% of them were taken using narrow  band ( n ) filters , while 28% were taken using wide  band ( w ) and medium  band ( m ) filters .",
    "36% were taken with detector 4 , 27% with detector 3 , and the rest with detector 1 ; no images taken with detector 2 were used in this analysis . as an example , fig .",
    "1 shows one of the images used in this work .",
    "[ imag ]          @xcite presented an analysis of the accuracy with which the da technique is able to recover the photocenter of a simulated point spread functions ( psfs ) of the wfpc2 .",
    "we present here the results of a similar analysis of the da precision on real wfpc2 images . in order to do this ,",
    "we selected 25 images , from our data set , taken in one epoch only : 1995 march 21 ; in this way we avoid errors associated with individual motions of the stars .",
    "these images were taken with detectors 1 and 4 ( 11 and 14 images , respectively ) in mid and narrow band filters ( 3 and 22 images , respectively ) .    in every one of the wfpc2 images mentioned in the previous paragraph , the stellar photocenter positions , as well as their precision ,",
    "were measured as indicated in section  2 of @xcite .",
    "the precision of all these measurements was analyzed as a function of detector , filter , spike s effective signal - to - noise ( es / n ) and average effective length ; the last two quantities are defined below .    to determine the es / n of one single point in the spike , a cut ",
    "21  pix for detectors 2 , 3 and 4 ( wf ) and 33  pix for detector 1 ( pc )  perpendicular to the spike at that point is performed . the point s es /",
    "n is obtained as follows : ( i ) the length of the cut is divided in three equal sections ; ( ii ) the average intensity of the two outer sections is calculated ; ( iii ) the maximum of the central section is obtained ; and ( iv ) the es / n is calculated as the ratio of the maximum value calculated in ( iii ) to the average value derived in ( ii ) . the spike s es /",
    "n was computed as the average of the es / n values of all the points along the spikes used for establishing a stellar position .",
    "the average effective length of a spike associated with a stellar photocenter measurement is defined as the average number of points along the four spikes used to determine the photocenter position .    as an example of the precision determination we present , in fig .  2 , a plot of the distribution of uncertainties as a function of spike average length .",
    "it is clear from this figure that the value of the precision improves , as expected , with the average length of the spikes .",
    "it seems that the precision may not be improved further than @xmath7  pix with this technique .",
    "however , it was found that the da precision is , for all cases , smaller than 0.11 pix .          in each of our 44 images , we measured all present ot components together with at least 9 ( 29 at most ) unsaturated field stars .",
    "the position of the saturated stars was measured using the da technique , while the position of the unsaturated ones was estimated using lorentzian fitting algorithms .",
    "positions were grouped by epoch and a reference frame was established for each one of these ; we used as a reference frame the image with the largest number of measured unsaturated positions . in table  2",
    "we list the epochs of all the reference frames , together with their corresponding filter , detector , and plate scale . using the _ geomap _ task of iraf and all unsaturated positions of the epoch reference frame as pivots ,",
    "we obtain a transformation between each image and its epoch reference frame .",
    "these transformations allow us to map the positions of the ot components ( a to f ) on this epoch pixel - corrected reference frame .",
    "these positions are reported in table  3 .",
    "^a^plate - scales interpolated from those reported by @xcite .",
    "units are mas pixel^-1^(@xmath8 for the pc and @xmath9 for the wf detectors ) .",
    "+ ^b^ for this epoch , the 11 pc frames were also matched to wf4 f547 m epoch reference frame .",
    "[ pltscl ]    ^a^ coordinates ( x and y ) in the system of epoch reference frame , corrected for geometric distortions .",
    "increasing y is to the north , and increasing x is to the west .",
    "uncertainties are given as the standard deviation , except for those cases marked by an asterisk , in which they correspond to the da technique precision .",
    "[ default ]    using the positions of the photocenters reported in table  3 , together with their corresponding plate - scales in table  2 , we were able to measure , for every pair of components , the separation ( in arcseconds ) and the pa ( in degrees , measured by convention , from north to east ) .",
    "the north direction was established using the group keyword orientat given in the header of each wfpc2 image .",
    "this keyword records the angle , in degrees , between the north and the columns of the detector ; it is measured from north to east .",
    "determination of the north direction is limited by the hst guide stars positions , the mode in which these stars were acquired by the fine guidance sensors ( fgs ) , and the transformation between fgs and wfpc2 . in all of our images ,",
    "the fgs s acquisition mode was fine ; this mode renders a typical rms pointing precision better than 2 to 5 mas @xcite .",
    "these figures , transformed to the wfpc2 , provide an absolute astrometry accuracy between 0.5 and 1 arcsec @xcite .",
    "the entire list of measurements , both from wds and da , can be obtained from the authors by request .",
    "a combination of ot  astrometric data from the wds and da - measurements of 44 ot hst - images allows us to present in the next section the internal motions of the ot .",
    "to determine the internal kinematics of the ot components , we performed linear least - squares ( lsq ) fits to the separation and the pa , both for wds as well as da data , as a function of time .",
    "as examples of the relative motions of the ot components , we present figs .  3 to 6 in which we plot the values for the separation and the pa of the component pairs ac , ae , cb and cd , as a function of time .",
    "the straight line resulted from linear lsq  fits to the points .    since the precision of the pa historical measurements is low , as stated in section 3.1 , and the time base of the da measures is relatively short , the rates of change derived from the fit to the pa data are significantly less reliable than those obtained for the fits to the separation data .",
    "[ figac ]        [ figae ]        [ fibcb ]        [ figcd ]    tests for membership of ot components a to e to the trapezium were already performed by @xcite .",
    "however , in that study it was not possible to establish the physical membership of component f to the ot , due to the fact that component c shows widely discrepant values for its proper motion @xcite and hence the proper - motion test for pair cf could not be carried out .",
    "given the large transverse velocity of f relative to c derived from our measures for the pa and separation velocities ( @xmath10 km s^-1^ and @xmath11 km s^-1^ , respectively ) we think it is a foreground star .",
    "it is probably related to the stellar population located in front of the onc , as proposed by @xcite . in view of this fact",
    ", we decided to disregard the kinematical information of this component .",
    "the relative motions of components a to e of the ot are summarized in table  4 . in this table ,",
    "the first column indicates the pair of ot components , the second and third the rate of change in pa and separation , respectively .",
    "the figures in the last two columns were transformed to km s^-1^ adopting a distance to the orion nebula of @xmath12 pc @xcite .",
    "the precision of these relative velocity determinations was found to be @xmath13 km s^-1^ ; this value corresponds to the average of uncertainties in table  4 .",
    "[ tk ]    finally , we note that the results presented in this section are fairly consistent with those published by @xcite .",
    "these authors determine the magnitude of the relative motions between pairs ab , ac and ae as + 0.18 , -0.11 , and + 0.36 seconds of arc per 100 years , respectively , disregarding the changes in pa . a transformation of these motions to transverse velocities results in + 3.6 , -2.2 , and + 7.1 km s@xmath14 , respectively , again using @xmath15 pc for the distance to the orion nebula @xcite .",
    "@xmath16 ori a is a spectroscopic and eclipsing binary ( v1016 ori ) .",
    "its systemic radial velocity has been obtained by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "based on essentially the same previously published data and a few additional data points of their own , both groups obtain the value given in table  5 .",
    "the star is , in addition , an interferometric binary under close scrutiny ( see @xcite ) .    itself a spectroscopic and eclipsing binary ,",
    "the orbital parameters of @xmath16 ori b ( bm ori ) have been obtained by several authors .",
    "@xcite notice that the values of the systemic velocity published for this system differ significantly between authors and , hence , between epochs . to reconcile previous results with their own , these authors postulate a third component in a 3.57 year , highly eccentric orbit . in table 5",
    "we have adopted the systemic velocity of the putative triple system , as given by @xcite .",
    "this system is part of a  mini - cluster \" ; see @xcite .",
    "@xmath16 ori c , the brightest member of the trapezium , is an interferometric binary whose primary component is probably a spectroscopic binary system @xcite .",
    "complicated by line - profile periodical variability associated with the oblique magnetic rotator character of the brightest component , no reliable systemic radial velocity is available for this binary .",
    "we have adopted 23.6 km s^-1^ , a value obtained by @xcite by adjusting published radial velocity values for the primary component to that derived from the interferometric binary orbit .",
    "no error was associated to this barycentric velocity in that paper , but its value is nearly equal to the average of those obtained recently by @xcite and @xcite for the close binary ( @xmath17 ) .",
    "a conservative guess of the error associated with it is @xmath18 km s^-1^.    it is frequently assumed that @xmath16 ori d is a single star .",
    "however , since the time that its radial velocity was first measured @xcite , it was considered to be a spectroscopic binary .",
    "indeed , vitrichenko ( 2002b ) , using all available velocity data , including his own measurements on iue spectra , derived preliminary orbital elements , with two possible solutions for the orbital period that differ from each other by a factor of two .",
    "the value for the systemic velocity of this object given in table 5 is that for the shorter period solution , preferred by the author , but the error we associate with it is three times larger than that given in his paper , since it is representative of the difference between the systemic velocity as derived from both solutions . in addition , this star is probably a visual binary @xcite .",
    "the values for the systemic velocity for @xmath16 ori e and f come , respectively , from @xcite and costero et al .",
    "( in preparation ) .",
    ".radial velocities of trapezium stars [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     [ tvr ]    we stress the fact that the uncertainties in table  5 are probably gross underestimates .",
    "the radial velocities quoted are also very uncertain .    as stated above , several of the ot components are multiple stars . in principle , the orbital motion of a secondary component around its primary may produce displacements of the primary that could be confused with relative motions with respect to other components of the ot .",
    "however , we note that the only component whose orbital motion could be of the order of the da errors in the measures is component c. the maximum relative orbital displacement that component c could show ( see table 3 in @xcite ) is 43 mas over one orbital period . since the mass ratio of the components is at most 0.23 @xcite the displacement due to orbital motion of component c would be at most 10 mas , smaller than our measurement errors , which are of the order of 20 mas for the relative position .",
    "all other components have either spectroscopic companions , or else very large separations with correspondingly long periods ( much larger than the span of our measurements ) .    particularly , in the case of component",
    "a , the system a1-a2 is probably a physical binary @xcite . assuming a circular orbit for the system and @xmath19 inclination , a period of about 400 years is deduced from the change in pa of @xmath20 per year @xcite . in this case , taking a separation of @xmath21 and a mass ratio of 0.2 @xcite , component a1 will show an oscillation , about the barycenter , of @xmath22 in 200 years .",
    "such an oscillation is much smaller than the precision of the wds data , and hence undetectable .",
    "on the other hand , the wfpc2 measurements are essentially coeval with those of @xcite who report a separation rate of @xmath23 mas yr^-1^ between a1 and a2 ; this translates into a @xmath24 mas yr^-1^ movement of a1 towards the barycenter , which is an order of magnitude smaller than our reported @xmath25 mas yr^-1^ rate of separation between a and e.    the effect of the orbital motion of a1-a2 on the pa between a and e on the wfpc2 measurements depends on the configuration between a1 , a2 and e which , during the observation period , was such that the three stars were nearly aligned ; consequently , the pa yearly rate of change reported by @xcite for a1-a2 ( @xmath26 yr^-1^ ) translates into almost @xmath27 change in pa for pair ae during the 12 years lapse of the wfpc2 measurements used . in nearly 200 years , the change in the pa of the pair of objects a1-e would oscillate , assuming a circular apparent orbit for a1-a2 , with an amplitude of @xmath28 .",
    "these effects are of the same order as the errors of a single wfpc2 and wds datum , respectively , and consequently undistinguishable , as can be noted in fig .",
    "we conclude that the orbital motions due to multiplicity of the ot members do not affect either the measurements carried out by the da technique , or those of the wds compilation .",
    "the most important kinematical results are as follows :    * the value we derive for the rate of change of the separation of component e relative to a , @xmath29 km s^-1^ , although smaller than that reported by @xcite ( 7.1 km s@xmath14 after correcting it for a distance of 414 pc to the onc ) , and @xcite ( 6.9 @xmath30 1 km s@xmath14 ) is still large enough for this component to be escaping from the trapezium . indeed ,",
    "the escape velocity of the ot system is @xmath31 km s^-1^ according to @xcite .",
    "the space velocity of component e relative to a ( the vector sum of @xmath29 km s^-1^ for the separation velocity , and @xmath32 km s^-1^ for the relative radial velocity , see table  5 ) is at least @xmath33 km s^-1^ , which is larger than the escape velocity of the ot . *",
    "although component f also appears to be escaping from the system we were not able to confirm its physical membership to the ot .",
    "it is probably a foreground star , physically unrelated to the trapezium . using the photometric data of @xcite and @xcite we find that the visual total extinction ( @xmath34 ) of star f is at least 0.4 mag smaller than that of the bright trapezium components , adopting the spectral type of component f ( b8 ) given by @xcite .",
    "this result places f in front of the ot , probably in the foreground veil @xcite , and is consistent with its belonging to the abundant stellar population in front of the trapezium cluster proposed by @xcite . *",
    "the velocity dispersion we find for components a , b , c and d is @xmath35 km s^-1^ in one coordinate .",
    "component e is escaping , component f is probably a foreground star , hence , they have not been considered in this estimate .",
    "of course , a velocity dispersion based on only four stars is of doubtful significance , but it is consistent with the ot being a bound system .",
    "even if we include component e , the velocity dispersion in one coordinate increases only to 1.8 km s^-1^. the value we estimate is comparable to that found by @xcite ( 1.37 km s^-1^ , when adjusted to a distance of 414 pc ) for a much larger sample of member stars of the onc .",
    "this velocity dispersion is significantly smaller than that found by @xcite for a larger sample of onc stars but , as these authors remark , if they restrict their sample to the brighter stars , those with magnitudes comparable to the @xcite sample , the conflict practically disappears . for these stars ,",
    "@xcite obtain a velocity dispersion of 1.31 km s^-1^ ( adjusted to a distance of 414 pc ) .",
    "the velocity dispersion we find , although from a very small number of ( bright ) stars , is comparable to that of @xcite and to the @xcite bright sample .",
    "the space motions , particularly that of component c , remains a controversial subject .",
    "a comprehensive discussion can be found in @xcite .",
    "briefly , @xcite find a motion of @xmath36 km s^-1^ towards pa 142 degrees , significantly larger than the velocity dispersion of the onc ; @xcite interpreted this velocity as evidence that the bn infrared and radio source object ( which is moving in the opposite direction ) originated in the ot",
    ". however , later studies of the radio sources in the embedded bn - kl cluster region @xcite found three radio sources moving away from a common point where they coincided some 500 years ago , and showed that the source used by @xcite as reference was one of the moving objects .",
    "+ photographic determination of astrometric positions of stars is notoriously difficult and van altena s tangential motion of 4.8 km s^-1^ is almost certainly too high @xcite .",
    "@xcite find a poor agreement of their proper motion of component c with that found by @xcite . indeed",
    "the motions obtained by mcnamara are , in units of mas yr^-1^ , @xmath37 , @xmath38 , quite incompatible with those found by @xcite , @xmath39 , @xmath40 .",
    "the data from @xcite indicate that components b and c are moving in opposite directions at about 3.5 mas yr^-1^ , a result incompatible with the relative motions of these stars found by @xcite who over a time interval of over 125 years , find no significant relative change in their separation .",
    "the results of the present study imply a separation velocity of component b relative to c of @xmath41 mas yr^-1^(@xmath42 km s^-1^ see figure 5 and table 4 ) , also incompatible with the @xcite result . *",
    "the rest of the components of the ot , present small and random velocities that resemble the behavior of a bound and virialized system as found by @xcite .",
    "diffracto - astrometry is a novel technique that permits precise measurements of the relative positions of stars on saturated images . in this work",
    "we have made use of this technique to measure 44 wfpc2 images of the ot over a time period of 12 years ( 19952007 ) .",
    "we found the relative positions of the six brightest components ( a to f ) of the ot and were also able to measure their relative displacements over this time period . to supplement the astrometric results from the hst data",
    ", we used a compilation of historical data ( @xmath43 200 yrs ) for the motion of these components from the wds .",
    "we calculated the relative separation velocities of all the ot components with respect to all the other components as well as the relative rate of change of their pas .",
    "however , the rate of change of the historical pa measurements turned out to be unreliable , and that determined from da only is not sufficiently accurate due to the short time base .",
    "our results yield the kinematics of the ot with a mean precision of @xmath44 km s^-1^. component e is moving with a velocity larger than the escape velocity of the system ; thus , we conclude that it is in the process of escaping the ot , as was found by @xcite .",
    "the transverse velocity values of the other components ( a , b , c and d ) are small and random , mimicking the behavior of a bound and virialized system as indicated by @xcite .",
    "the fact that one component of the ot is escaping from this system supports the @xcite studies of the dynamics of trapezium - type systems , in which they study the evolution of 30 systems and found that , in a time period of a million years , 13 of them , almost @xmath45 % , would eject one or two components .",
    "we are grateful to dgapa  unam for financial support under project papiit number in109809 and conacyt grants i52081 and i102284 .",
    "this work is based on observations made with the nasa / esa hubble space telescope , obtained from the data archive at the space telescope science institute .",
    "stsci is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc . under nasa contract",
    "nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "it also has made use of the washington double star catalog maintained at the u.s .",
    "naval observatory .",
    "allen , c. and poveda , a. 1974 , iau symposium , 62 , 239 allen , c. , poveda , a. and worley , c.  e. 1974 , revmexaa , 1 , 101 allen , c. , poveda , a. and hernndez - alcntara , a. 2004 , revmexaa conf .",
    "ser . , 21 , 195 alves , j. and bouy , h. 2012 , a&a , 547 , a97 anderson , j. and king , i.  r. 1999 , pasp , 111 , 1095 anderson , j. and king , i.  r. 2003 , pasp , 115 , 113 argyle , b. 2004 , in _ observing and measuring visual double stars _ , london , springer - verlag close , l.  m. , puglisi , a. , males , j.  r. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj .",
    ", 749 , 180 costero , r. , allen , c. , echevarra , j. , et al .",
    "2008 , revmexaa conf .",
    "ser . , 34 , 102 da rio , n. , robberto , m. , soderblom , d.  r. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjs , 183 , 261 dolphin , a. e. 2000 , pasp , 112 , 1397 fruchter , a. and sosey , m. et al .",
    "2009 , _ the multidrizzle handbook _ , version 3.0 , ( baltimore , md : stsci ) gilliland , r.  l. 1994 , apj , 435 , l63 golimowski , d.  a. , fastie , w.  g. , schroeder , d.  j. , et al .",
    "1995 , apjl , 452 , l125 gmez , l. , rodrguez , l.  f. , loinard , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 635 , 1166 gonzaga , s. , biretta , j. , et al .",
    "2010 , in hst wfpc2 data handbook , v. 5.0 ( baltimore , md : stsci ) , a. , portegies zwart , s. and eggleton , p.",
    "p. 2004 , mnras , 350 , 615 herbig , g.  h. 1950 , apj , 111 , 15 holtzman , j.  a. , burrows , c.  j. , casertano , s. , et al .",
    "1995 , pasp , 107 , 1065 , h.  m. , van denbos , w.  h. and greeby , f.  m. 1963 , publications of the lick observatory , b.  f. and walker , m.  f. 1988 , aj , 95 , 1755 kozhurina - platais , v. , anderson , j. and koekemoer , a.  m. 2003 , instrument science report wfpc2 2003 - 02 ( baltimore , md : stsci ) kozhurina - platais , v. , goudfrooij , p. and puzia , t.  h. 2007 , instrument science report acs 2007 - 04 ( baltimore , md : stsci ) kraus , s. , weigelt , g. , balega , y.  y. , et al . 2009 , a&a , 497 , 195 lehmann , h. , vitrichenko e.  a. , bychkov v. , et al .",
    "2010 , a&a , 514 , a34 maz - apellanz , j. 2002 , hst calibration workshop ( eds .",
    "s. arribas , a. koekemoer , and b. whitmore ) , 346 , b.  d. , wycoff , g.  l. , hartkopf , w.  i. , et al .",
    "2001 , aj , 122 , 3466 mcmaster , biretta , et al .",
    "2008 , wfpc2 instrument handbook , version 10.0 ( baltimore , md : stsci ) , b.  j. , 1976 , aj , 81 , 375 , k.  m. , reid , m.  j. , forbrich , j. , et al .",
    "2007 , a&a , 474 , 515 muench , a.  a. , lada , e.  a. , lada , c.  j. , et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 573 , 366 odell , c.  r. 2001 , araa , 39 , 99 odell , c.  r. , henney , w.  j. , abel , n.  p. , et al .",
    "2009 , aj , 137 , 367 olivares , j. , snchez , l.  j. , ruelas - mayorga , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , revmexaa conf .",
    "ser . , 40 , 282 plaskett j.  s. and pearce , j.  a. 1931 , publ .",
    ". astrophys . obs . , 5 , 1 , a. , ruiz , j. and allen , c. 1967 , boletin de los observatorios tonantzintla y tacubaya , 4 , 86 , t. , balega , y. , hofmann , k.  h. , et al . 1999 , new astronomy , 4 , 531 rodrguez , l.  f. , poveda , a. , lizano , s. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 627 , 65 , a. , snchez , l.  j. , olivares , j. , et al .",
    "2011 , pasp , 123 , 1290 snchez , l.  j. , ruelas - mayorga , a. , allen , c. , et al .",
    "2008 , revmexaa conf . ser . , 34 , 10 snchez , l.  j. , ruelas - mayorga , a. , olivares , j. , et al .",
    "2011 , revmexaa conf .",
    "ser . , 40 , 308 snchez , l.  j. , ruelas - mayorga , a. , olivares , j. , et al .",
    "2013 , revmexaa conf .",
    ", in press stetson , p.  b. 1998 , pasp , 110 , 1448 stickland , d.  j. and lloyd , c. 2000 , the observatory , 120 , 141 tan , j.  c. , 2004 , apj , 607 , 47 , w.  f. , lee , j.  t. , lee , j.  f. , et al .",
    "1988 , aj , 95 , 1744 vitrichenko , e.  a. 2002a , astron .",
    "letters , 28 , 324 vitrichenko , e.  a. 2002b , astron .",
    "letters , 28 , 843 vitrichenko , e.  a. , bondar , n.  i. , bychkova , l. , et al .",
    "2012 , astrophysics , 55 , 199 vitrichenko , e.  a. , klochkova , v.  g. and plachinda , s.  i. 1998 , astron .",
    "letters , 24 , 296 vitrichenko , e.  a. , and klochkova , v.  g. 2004 , astrophysics , vol .",
    "47 , 169 weigelt , g. , balega , y. , preibisch , t. , et al . 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 347 , l15 whitmore , b. , heyer , i. and casertano , s. 1999 , pasp , 111 , 1559"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using the novel diffracto  astrometry technique </S>",
    "<S> we analyze 44 hubble space telescope wide field planetary camera 2 images of the orion trapezium ( ot ) taken over a span of 12 years ( 19952007 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we measure the relative positions of the six brighter ot components ( a to f ) , and supplement these results with measurements of the relative separations and position angles taken from the literature , thus extending our analysis time base to @xmath0 years . for every pair of components we find the relative rate of separation as well as the temporal rate of change of their position angles , which enable us to determine the relative kinematics of the system . </S>",
    "<S> component e shows a velocity larger that the ot s escape velocity , thus confirming that it is escaping from the gravitational pull of this system . </S>"
  ]
}