{
  "article_text": [
    "the tagged - photon facility ( tpf )  @xcite at the max iv laboratory  @xcite in lund , sweden has been used to measure photonuclear cross sections in many experiments .",
    "rate - dependent deadtime and other effects in the electronics used to instrument the tagger focal plane ( fp ) must be correctly addressed in order to properly normalize the experimental data .",
    "these effects are particularly important because of the intermittently high instantaneous photon - beam flux caused by the non - uniform time structure of the photon beam .",
    "limitations in the fp instrumentation electronics were also problematic .",
    "an in - depth investigation of the rate - dependent effects at the tpf was recently reported  @xcite in which the novel approach of monte carlo simulation was employed .",
    "the behavior of the fp instrumentation electronics was successfully modeled for each detected electron in 1  ns steps .",
    "input parameters were taken directly from the electronics setup ( such as pulse widths ) or from the data itself ( such as electron rates and time structure of the electron beam ) .",
    "the major limitation in the original electronic instrumentation system for the fp which led to large corrections at high rates was the use of single - hit time - to - digital converters ( tdcs ) .",
    "these tdcs were used to measure the elapsed time between a photon - induced reaction product and the post - bremsstrahlung electron corresponding to the photon in question .",
    "understanding the behavior of the single - hit tdcs at high rates has enabled the absolute normalization of data  @xcite .",
    "recently , the instrumentation of the tagger fp has been upgraded to include multi - hit tdcs ; that is , tdcs which are sensitive to more than one stop signal they receive when triggered .",
    "such tdcs are superior to their single - hit predecessors as the data they provide eliminate the need for a large rate - dependent correction to the absolute experiment normalization ( see below ) .",
    "this in turn simplifies the data analysis .    in this paper",
    ", we present a detailed analysis of the behavior of the tagger fp instrumented with multi - hit tdcs . we compare this behavior to that of the tagger fp instrumented with single - hit tdcs and demonstrate good agreement",
    ". finally , we present absolute cross - section data obtained using both devices and compare it to existing data to demonstrate a thorough understanding of the behavior of the detector system .",
    "at the tpf , photon taggers  @xcite and the well - known photon - tagging technique  @xcite ( see fig .  [",
    "figure : figure_01_tagging_technique ] ) are used to perform photonuclear investigations .",
    "a pulse - stretched electron beam  @xcite with an energy of up to 200  mev is used to produce bremsstrahlung as it passes through a @xmath0100  @xmath1 m al radiator .",
    "the resulting bremsstrahlung photon beam is collimated prior to striking the experimental target .",
    "post - bremsstrahlung electrons are momentum - analyzed in the tagging spectrometer equipped with a 63-detector plastic - scintillator array positioned at the focal plane .",
    "a prompt coincidence between a photonuclear reaction product and a post - bremsstrahlung electron in the scintillator array indicates a tagged - photon event .",
    "the energy of the tagged photon is determined from the difference between the energy of the incident electron beam and the energy of the post - bremsstrahlung electron detected in the scintillator focal plane ( fp ) .",
    "the measured cross section is given by @xmath2 where @xmath3 is the number of true , prompt coincidences between the reaction - product detector and the fp , @xmath4 is the reaction - product detector efficiency , @xmath5 is the number of target nuclei per unit area , @xmath6 is the number of electrons detected in the fp array and counted in the fp scalers , @xmath7 is the probability that a taggable bremsstrahlung photon passes through the beam - defining collimator and hits the target  @xcite , and @xmath8 is the solid angle subtended by the reaction - product detector .",
    "both @xmath3 and @xmath6 must be corrected for the effects of deadtime in the instrumentation electronics , and the size of the corrections depends on the count rate .",
    "this is complicated by the fact that the electron beam delivered by the accelerator has a periodic structure of varying intensity . as a result",
    ", the instantaneous fp rate can be almost a factor of 4 higher than the average fp rate ( typically 3 mhz / mev ) at 20  na , a typical average operating current .",
    "the fp hodoscope consists of two parallel rows of ne110 scintillators .",
    "the front row nearest the exit window of the tagger magnet has 31 elements , while the back row has 32 elements ( see fig .  [ figure : figure_02_focal_plane_hodoscope ] ) .",
    "the signals from the detectors are passed to lrs  4413 leading - edge discriminators operated in burst - guard mode .",
    "the resulting logic signals are typically set to 25 or 50  ns .",
    "overlap coincidence modules designed and built at the saskatchewan accelerator laboratory ( sal ) are used to identify coincidences between two physically overlapping detectors in the front and back rows .",
    "an output pulse is generated whenever the two input pulses overlap and is ended whenever one or both inputs are reset .",
    "an overlap of at least 3  ns is necessary to produce an output pulse .",
    "these coincidences define fp channels and are used to stop tdcs and increment scalers .",
    "when a post - bremsstrahlung electron event occurs in coincidence with a trigger from the experiment detectors , a tagged - photon event may have occurred .    the device labeled tdc in figs .",
    "[ figure : figure_01_tagging_technique ] and [ figure : figure_03_focal_plane_electronics ] represents both single - hit and multi - hit tdcs  that is , both devices are used in parallel  started by the same signal and stopped by the same signal(s ) .",
    "the single - hit tdc used to instrument the fp array is the caen  v775 .",
    "the v775 is a 32 channel device with 12  bit resolution .",
    "it is operated in common - start mode .",
    "the stop comes from the first signal presented by a fp channel .",
    "it was experimentally determined that to be registered by the tdc , the stop signals corresponding to a fp channel had to correspond to a timing overlap of at least @xmath011  ns between the front row and back row signals .",
    "the multi - hit tdc used to instrument the fp array is the caen  v1190b .",
    "the v1190b is a 64  channel device with 19  bit resolution .",
    "once triggered , it uses one of the fp channel signals as the timing reference signal .",
    "the module was programmed to accept up to 4 stop signals per channel for each trigger . ) , a record of the first 2 signals presented by a fp channel is sufficient .",
    "we record the first 4 signals in order to be able to better confirm that our instrumentation electronics are behaving as expected . ] .",
    "it was experimentally determined that these stop signals also had to be at least @xmath011  ns in width .",
    "the device labeled scaler in figs .",
    "[ figure : figure_01_tagging_technique ] and [ figure : figure_03_focal_plane_electronics ] is a caen  v830 scaler .",
    "the v830 is a 32  channel latching device with a 250  mhz counting capability .",
    "it was experimentally determined to register pulses a short as @xmath03  ns in width , the limit of our fp - trigger setup .",
    "two advantages to requiring a coincidence between the front and back rows of electron detectors in the fp array are that registration of the background in the experimental hall is greatly suppressed , and that the photon - energy resolution may be easily increased simply by offsetting the two scintillator planes .",
    "as the electron beam has a varying periodic intensity , high instantaneous post - bremsstrahlung electron event rates can occur .",
    "the resulting rate - dependent effects may result in significant losses in the number of events registered by the fp array instrumentation . unless taken carefully into consideration ,",
    "these rate - dependent effects prevent the absolute normalization of the experimental data .",
    "rate - dependent effects include ghost events , missed stops , and stolen coincidences ( see below ) .",
    "table  [ table : table_01_corrections_summary ] summarizes typical values for rate - dependent corrections to the number of post - bremsstrahlung electrons detected by the fp array for both the single - hit and multi - hit tdcs .",
    ".[table : table_01_corrections_summary ] a summary of corrections to the number of tagged events registered by the fp array required for the absolute normalization of experimental data .",
    "note that the stolen - coincidences correction is unnecessary when multi - hit tdcs are used , a distinct advantage .",
    "see text for details . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      a major disadvantage of requiring a coincidence between the front and back rows of electron detectors in the fp array is the creation of ghost events at high rates .",
    "the ghost events result from the instrumentation of the fp array .",
    "the scenario leading to a ghost event is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ figure : figure_04_ghosts ] .",
    "two different post - bresmsstrahlung electrons strike next - to - neighboring channels ( counters f1  @xmath9  b1 and f2  @xmath9  b2 ) at nearly the same time which creates the illusion of an electron in the channel in between ( counters f1  @xmath9  b2 )  the ghost event .",
    "the rate of the accidental coincidences that result in ghost events depends on the post - bremsstrahlung electron rate , the widths of the fp discriminator output pulses , and the resolving time of the overlap coincidence modules .",
    "because these ghosts are formed in the fp electronics , they are registered as coincidences in both the fp scalers and the fp tdc modules , resulting in a partial but not complete cancellation of the effect . as the rate of ghost events is purely a function of post - bresmsstrahlung electron rate and fp geometry , they affect both single - hit and multi - hit tdc data equally .",
    "they are best addressed using the simulation approach detailed in ref .",
    "@xcite .",
    "a missed stop occurs when the fp scalers register a recoil - electron event while the fp tdcs miss it .",
    "the primary origin of missed stops lies in the different minimum pulse width for registration in the fp scalers ( @xmath03  ns ) and tdcs ( @xmath011  ns ) .",
    "this deadtime effect is best addressed using the simulation approach detailed in ref .",
    "@xcite .      when single - hit tdcs are employed , due to the fact that the tdc only registers the first signal presented to it subsequent to the start , an accidental post - bremsstrahlung electron may be detected in the fp channel before the actual post - bremsstrahlung electron that corresponds to the tagged photon .",
    "the result is that the single - hit tdc is stopped too early , leading to a well - studied phenomenon known as stolen coincidences  see fig .",
    "[ figure : figure_05_stolen_coincidences ] .",
    "well - known methods  @xcite exist for determining the stolen - coincidence correction .",
    "it may also be efficiently addressed using the simulation approach detailed in ref .",
    "@xcite or greatly reduced by implementing multi - hit tdcs .",
    "as previously mentioned , the multi - hit tdc with which the fp has been upgraded has been programmed to accept the first 4 stop signals presented to it in conjunction with the trigger and the programmable acceptance window . in this manner",
    ", the stolen - coincidence effect is greatly reduced as up to 3 accidental post - bresmsstrahlung electrons can be registered in the multi - hit tdc before the prompt electron without stealing it .",
    "thus , a large correction to the number of tagged events registered by the fp array is avoided , increasing the precision of the overall normalization .",
    "+    the causes of ghost events , missed stops , stolen coincidences , and deadtime in the fp scalers and tdcs are all included in the fp simulation  @xcite which can therefore be used to determine suitable correction factors .",
    "figure  [ figure : figure_07_tdc_cross_section ] presents a comparison between the absolute differential cross section for elastic photon scattering from @xmath10c at a lab angle of 120@xmath11 recently obtained at the tpf at the max iv laboratory using both single - hit ( upright red triangles ) and multi - hit tdcs ( inverted black triangles ) simultaneously .",
    "the single - hit tdc data have been corrected for stolen coincidences according to ref .",
    "error bars reflect statistical uncertainties only .",
    "the agreement between the two data sets is satisfactory , thereby confirming our understanding of the stolen - coincidence correction to the data",
    ".    figure .",
    "[ figure : figure_08_results_cross_section ] presents a comparison between the absolute differential cross section for elastic photon scattering from @xmath10c at a lab angle of 120@xmath11 recently obtained at the tpf at the max iv laboratory and existing data published by schelhaas  _ et al . _",
    "@xcite ( open upright triangles ) and warkentin  _ et al .",
    "_  @xcite ( open squares ) .",
    "error bars reflect statistical uncertainties only .",
    "systematic uncertainty bands for the present measurement are presented at the top ( red , single - hit tdc data ) and bottom ( gray , multi - hit tdc data ) of the figure .",
    "the agreement between the data sets is very good thereby confirming our understanding of the absolute normalization .",
    "in this paper , the monte carlo simulation  @xcite of the max iv tagger focal - plane electronics has been tested by comparing results obtained using both single- and multi - hit tdcs .",
    "good agreement between these data sets has been demonstrated , and the measured absolute cross sections also agree with previous experiments .",
    "we conclude that the behavior of the detector system is thoroughly understood and that the monte carlo simulation incorporates it correctly .",
    "this project was supported by the us national science foundation grant no .",
    "0855569 , the uk science and technology facilities council , as well as the swedish research council , the crafoord foundation , and the royal physiographic society in lund .",
    "the authors gratefully acknowledge the data management and software centre , a danish contribution to the european spallation source ess ab , for generously providing access to their computations cluster .",
    "we also thank j.c .",
    "mcgeorge for useful discussions .",
    "adler , m.  boland , j.  brudvik , k.  fissum , k.  hansen , l.  isaksson , p.  lilja , l .- j .",
    "lindgren , m.  lundin , b.  nilsson , d.  pugachov , a.  sandell , b.  schrder , v.  avdeichikov , p.  golubev , b.  jakobsson , j.r.m .",
    "annand , k.  livingston , r.  igarashi , l.  myers , a.  nathan , w.j .",
    "briscoe , g.  feldman , m.  kovash , d.  branford , k.  fhl , p.  grabmayr , v.  takau , g.  orielly , d.  burdeynyi , v.  ganenko , v.  morochovskyi , g.  vashchenko , nucl .",
    "instrum . and meth . a 715 ( 2013 ) 1 .",
    "see for example j .- o .",
    "adler , b .- e",
    ".  andersson , k.i .",
    "blomqvist , k.g .",
    "fissum , k.  hansen , l.  isaksson , b.  nilsson , d.  nilsson , h.  ruijter , a.  sandell , b.  schrder , d.a .",
    "sims , nucl . instr . and meth . a 388 ( 1997 ) 17 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> rate - dependent effects in the electronics used to instrument the tagger focal plane at the max iv laboratory were recently investigated using the novel approach of monte carlo simulation to allow for normalization of high - rate experimental data acquired with single - hit time - to - digital converters ( tdcs ) . </S>",
    "<S> the instrumentation of the tagger focal plane has now been expanded to include multi - hit tdcs . </S>",
    "<S> the agreement between results obtained from data taken using single - hit and multi - hit tdcs demonstrate a thorough understanding of the behavior of the detector system .    </S>",
    "<S> tagger hodoscope , rate dependencies , multi - hit time - to - digital converters </S>"
  ]
}