{
  "article_text": [
    "local structural excitations ( lses ) occurring at the atomic scale of bulk metallic glasses ( bmgs ) are believed to mediate their unique plastic deformation properties . in the early seminal work of spaepen",
    "@xcite , a free volume model was proposed in which single atoms would migrate to a neighbouring free volume region .",
    "subsequently argon  @xcite introduced the idea that small groups of atoms undergo a structural transformation that could modify the local shear - stress state .",
    "the early atomistic simulations of falk and langer  @xcite confirmed this picture and referred to these lses as shear transformation zones ( stzs ) , leading to a series of static and dynamical atomistic simulations to better understand how such stzs lead collectively to macroscopic plasticity  @xcite .",
    "the structural transformations studied in these works were obtained via application of strain rates that are many orders of magnitude higher than that normally seen in experiment , leading to localized material instabilities often identified as stzs . in terms of the traditional thermal activation picture for plasticity",
    ", such simulations therefore study the athermal limit of plasticity in bulk metallic glasses .",
    "a common question has been as to whether there exist local structural features within the glass configuration that facilitate the existence of lses . indeed from the early athermal atomistic simulation work , those spatial regions which exhibited a localised material instability and the subsequent observation of stzs",
    "have been referred to as pre - existing liquid like regions - spatial domains that are not fully relaxed  @xcite . in the work of langer , a relatively low density of such regions",
    "was theoretically considered  @xcite . from this perspective",
    "it is then valid to ask whether there are structural features of the unstrained glass configuration that allow identification of regions predisposed to lses - the so - called liquid like regions ? in the work of lonforte _ et al _",
    "@xcite , the reversible non - affine atomic displacements associated with a finite elastic distortion was considered .",
    "such displacements give insight into the spatial extent of the low curvature of the unstrained pel .",
    "this work found a percolative network of large non - affine displacements , however when the applied strain was increased to promote plastic activity , the location of the observed lses did not show a strong correlation with the non - affine displacements suggesting the corresponding athermal energy barriers were not directly related to the unstrained pel curvature . in the work of mayr @xcite , who analyzed the local elastic constants ( born plus the kinetic fluctuation contributions ) as a function of applied stress and temperature",
    "did find a strong connection between emerging elastic instabilities and eventual plasticity as the temperature approached the glass transition . whilst these simulations were fully dynamical , the necessarily high strain rates place these results close to the athermal regime .",
    "atomistic simulation methods that avoid the high stress athermal limit , are the so - called potential energy landscape ( pel ) exploration methods .",
    "the relevance of these methods to bulk metallic glasses relies on the idea that the atomic configuration of a structural glass spends much of its time in a local potential energy minimum , only occasionally transiting it via a saddle - point region to a new local minimum .",
    "such structural changes are assumed to occur via thermal fluctuations and therefore do not involve a local material instability driven by the applied stress .",
    "a well known example of this approach is the so - called activation relaxation technique @xmath2 ( art@xmath3 )  @xcite which has been applied to both two and three dimensional model glass systems  @xcite . starting from a well defined local minimum",
    "the art@xmath3 method uses the local hessian structure of the pel to climb out of its current pel valley and to eventually converge to a nearby saddle point region .",
    "the energy difference between the minimum and the saddle point gives the corresponding energy barrier of the associated lse .",
    "when applied to model glass systems a wide range of energy barriers are obtained producing a distribution of energy barriers that appear to converge when several thousand such lses have been identified . for sufficiently relaxed glass configurations ,",
    "the barrier energy distribution is found to be single peaked and analysis of the associated lses revealed their corresponding plastic strain increments to be uncorrelated with barrier energy  @xcite .",
    "moreover , with respect to a particular loading geometry the plastic strains have equal numbers of positive and negative sign .",
    "however , upon application of the loading geometry strain , the distribution becomes slightly weighted towards positive strains with a large number of negative strain lses still occurring .",
    "the situation is quite different for the case of stress driven energy barriers which generally only yield lses that are positive in strain .",
    "thus athermal stress driven simulations probe only a subset of possible lses  those compatible with the chosen driving mode .    in this paper , the art@xmath3 method will be applied to three - dimensional model lj structural glass configurations to obtain a large number of lses and their associated barrier energies .",
    "the present work will only consider the case of zero external load . using this data , the spatial location of the identified lses will be investigated in terms of local structural properties and a statistical analysis will be performed .",
    "the local quantities investigated will be atom type , local stress , local elastic constants , local pressure and voronoi volume .",
    "in addition , the spatial nature of the structural changes and the number of atoms involved will be determined .",
    "all such information will also be correlated with the barrier energy . in sec .",
    "[ secmeth ] the sample preparation procedure will be outlined and the local structural quantities to be investigated defined .",
    "[ secresults ] contains the major results of the present work encompassing the art@xmath3 results and the ensuing statistical analysis of the identified lses . in sec .",
    "[ secav ] , the spatial nature of a number of representative lses will be atomistically visualized and characterised . finally , sec .",
    "[ secdiscussion ] will discuss the results in terms of contemporary pictures of microscopic plastic deformation in bmgs .",
    "model glass samples have been prepared by molecular dynamics and statics using a 50/50 binary mixture of a lj system given by , @xmath4 where @xmath5 and @xmath6 set the microscopic energy and length scale of the model material .",
    "the parameterization presently used is that of wahnstrm parametrization @xcite , which is shown in table [ table1 ] .",
    "all simulation results are reported in lj units where time is measured with respect to @xmath7 and temperature with respect to @xmath8 .",
    ".numerical values of the parameters of the lj potential used in the present work @xcite , where @xmath9 represents the length - scale parameter between atoms of type @xmath10 and @xmath11 .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      fig .",
    "[ figoverlap]a shows the plot of the `` vibrational participation numbers '' ( eqn .",
    "[ eqnvibpn ] ) against eigenvalue number corresponding to each eigenstate , where the vibrational participation number represents the effective number of atoms participating in a vibrational eigen - mode . here",
    "the eigenvalues have been sorted from smallest to largest and therefore the horizontal axis is proportional to increasing vibrational frequency .",
    "such data has been calculated before  @xcite , demonstrating that at low frequencies the eigen - modes are strongly heterogeneous indicating quasi - localized mode behaviour that is believed to underly the well known boson peak phenomenon of disordered systems  @xcite . at the highest frequencies the participation number again drops reflecting a localization that is understood within the framework of anderson localization  @xcite . to investigate any correlation between the existence of such low - frequency quasi - localized and high - frequency localized modes , the overlap between the vibrational eigenstate and that of the lse is determined .",
    "this is presently done by calculating the scalar product of the atomic weights ( eqn .",
    "[ eqweights ] ) with the eigenvector magnitude - squared , @xmath12 .",
    "[ figoverlap]b displays both the average overlap and the maximum overlap of all identified lses with each vibrational eigen - mode .",
    "the figure shows that there exists , on average , little overlap over the entire frequency range . in the low frequency regime ,",
    "the average overlap is a well defined statistical quantity indicating that irrespective of the nature of the quasi - localized mode , the spatial location and extension of the identified lses are similar for different modes .",
    "this is also reflected in the maximum overlap which varies little with eigenstate , and is also a small quantity . at higher frequencies",
    "the situation is somewhat different in that there is much more scatter in the average value and that the maximum value .",
    "this however does not indicate any important correlation since the small average and large maximum values are more likely to indicate the scenario that statistically there will generally be one or some lses that strongly overlap with a one or some well - localized high frequency eigenstates .",
    "this does not occur at the low - frequency quasi - localized eigenstates since these are more extended involving several tens to hundreds of atoms ( see fig .",
    "13 of ref .",
    "thus the current analysis reveals little correlation between the spatial extent of the vibrational modes and the location of the identified lses .     a ) plot of vibrational participation numbers against eigenvalues b ) plot of maximum and average overlap per eigenvalue .",
    "]      the art@xmath3 simulations have been also performed on glass samples prepared via faster quench rates ( sample 0a with @xmath13 , sample 0b with @xmath14 , sample 0c with @xmath15 ) , and a comparative study has been done to determine if the results of sec .  [ secresults ] depend on the quench rate .",
    "[ figqr]a displays the resulting activation energy distributions , showing that for the more rapidly quenched systems the peak of the distribution shifts to lower activation energies and that close to the zero activation energy limit , the distribution does not limit to zero ( a result also found in the work of rodney and schuh  @xcite ) .",
    "[ figqr]b now shows the participation number distribution ( eqn .",
    "[ eqpn ] ) revealing that with increasing quench rate there is a slight shift to a larger number of atoms being involved in the lses and that many of these involve a more mixed number of atom type  see fig .",
    "[ figqr]c which displays the average atom type distribution of the lses .",
    "these results tend to suggest that the more rapidly the model system is quenched the more shallow the local potential minimum is of each resulting 0k atomic configuration , and that the corresponding lses are somewhat larger involving both types ( sizes ) of atom . in general however the weak correlation with local structural features seen in sec .",
    "[ secresults ] is insensitive to quench rate .",
    "for example , fig .",
    "[ figqr]d displays the laq weighted lowest kelvin eigen - shear distribution as a function of quench rate , which displays only a slight shift towards lower elastic stiffness moduli .",
    "panels showing the effect of different quench rates in which the fastest quench rate is sample0a and the slowest is sample0d .",
    "a ) shows histograms of the activation energy , b ) the participation number , c ) the atom type and d ) the lowest kelvin eigenshear distribution . ]",
    "in this section six identified lses are atomistically visualized .",
    "these examples have been chosen since they represent typical features seen in all lses and are shown in fig  [ figvis ] . in all of the examples , the initial and final atomic positions are represented respectively by green and orange spheres , where the red arrows represent the displacement from the initial to activated position and the blue arrows the displacements from the activated to final position .",
    "only those atoms are shown which are displaced by more than @xmath16 , either between the initial and activated or the activated , or final configuration .",
    "the large spheres represent atoms of type 1 and the small spheres atoms of type 2 .",
    "generally , the visualised atoms may be classified into two groups , those central atoms that involve significant and irreversible displacement and those atoms that accommodate this activity either via reversible elastic or plastic activity . in all figures ,",
    "the first class of initial atom positions are numbered , with the dashed - corresponding - number labeling their final position .",
    "[ figvis]a represents an lse with an activation energy of @xmath17 involving 8 atoms . in this lse ,",
    "the central atomic structure forms a symmetrical ring like ( or closed chain - like ) structure ( @xmath18 ) consisting mainly of smaller atoms ( of type 2 ) .",
    "surrounding this plastic inner structure , there are mainly larger atoms ( of type 2 ) which move back and forth during the initial to activated state and then from activated to final state transition respectively .",
    "this is an example of elastic accommodation mechanism around the inner ring - like plastic rearrangement .",
    "this is an example of an lse that results in a final configuration identical to the initial configuration apart from a permutation of three labels .",
    "it is such lses , numbering 81 , that have been removed from the data - set studied in sec .",
    "[ seclaq ] .",
    "six examples of local structural excitations identified by art@xmath3 . in each case",
    "the initial atomic positions are visualized by green balls and the final by orange balls .",
    "the atomic displacements from the initial to activated and activated to final states are visualized by respectively red and blue arrows . ]",
    "fig  [ figvis]b represents an lse with an activation energy of @xmath19 involving 17 atoms .",
    "it shows an extended chain - like atomic motion with the sequence being specified by ( @xmath20 ) .",
    "although smaller atoms ( of type 2 ) are involved in the formation of the chain , there are a relatively large number of large atoms ( of type 1 ) which are responsible for accommodating this structural excitation .",
    "there is evidence of both elastic and plastic accommodation by the surrounding atoms , which is clearly seen by atoms moving back and forth as well as atoms moving irreversibly in the region surrounding the inner chain like formation .",
    "an observation that is inferred out of this lse ( and further confirmed in the subsequent descriptions of lses ) is that , excitations which involve a higher number of atoms in the chain - like structure also involve a proportionally higher number of atomics in the surrounding accommodation mechanism .",
    "fig  [ figvis]c represents an lse with an activation energy of @xmath21 involving 9 atoms .",
    "it also shows a chain - like atomic reconfiguration , now of a strongly curved extension .",
    "the sequence is specified by ( @xmath22 ) . here",
    "both sized atoms are involved in the re - configuration .",
    "there are two bigger atoms and one smaller atom surrounding this chain which undergo elastic displacement .",
    "one of the most spatially extended lses identified by art@xmath3 is shown in fig .",
    "[ figvis]d .",
    "this lse has an activation energy of @xmath23 and involves 17 atoms , with the reconfiguration sequence being ( @xmath24 ) .",
    "it is noted that smaller atoms ( of type 2 ) are involved at both ends of the chain sequence , and that both types of atoms are involved in the elastic and plastic accommodation",
    ". such mixed atom type chain - like activity is also seen in the smaller ring - like lses as shown in fig .",
    "[ figvis]e , which has an activation energy of @xmath25 .",
    "finally , fig  [ figvis]f represents an lse with an activation energy of @xmath26 involving 11 atoms .",
    "this lse forms a chain ( @xmath20 ) which almost resembles a straight - line due to its low curvature .    upon inspection of these figures ,",
    "the chain like sequence of an lse generally involves one atom replacing its neighbour ( and so on ) such that the chain or part of the chain is fully connected ( with respect to the red and blue displacement arrows ) or one atom can move a previously unoccupied location with another atom doing the same with respect to another atom ( and so on ) forming a disconnected chain ( with respect to the red and blue displacement arrows ) . the smaller ring like structures of figs .",
    "[ figvis]a and e , fall into the first category and the extended chains fall into both categories .",
    "very low energy lses were also visualized ( not shown ) and these tended to involve just one atom changing its location with minor elastic and plastic accommodation in the surrounding regions .",
    "such lses typically have activation energies in the range of less than @xmath27 .",
    "[ figvis ] demonstrates that lses can be spatially extended .",
    "to better quantify this observation , a non - dimensional quantity derived from the radius of gyration is used .",
    "the radius of gyration ( which is also commonly used in molecular applications ) in the present context is given by , @xmath28 where @xmath29 is the number of atoms involved in the lse , @xmath30 is the position of the concerned atom and @xmath31 is the centre of position of the lse . the dimensionless shape number is then defined as @xmath32 , where @xmath33 is the maximum distance from the centre - of - position of an atom within the lse .",
    "the shape number is computed using the initial positions of the atoms involved in the lses .",
    "a higher displacement cut - off of @xmath34 was used to exclude the surrounding accommodating atoms ( which have relatively smaller displacements ) , thus ensuring only the central atoms within the lse are considered .",
    "a ) the shape number distribution derived from all identified lses , b ) the scatter plot of shape number with participation number .",
    "c ) shows the relationship between lse size and shape number for the two limiting geometries of a linearly extended lse and a randomly spatially distributed lse .",
    "d ) the scatter plot of shape number with activation energy . ]    fig .",
    "[ figshapenumber]a displays the histogram of shape numbers derived from all of the identified lses . to understand this figure ,",
    "some limiting cases of the shape number formalism are first considered .",
    "when only one central atom is involved in an lse , the shape number becomes indeterminate and when two atoms are involved the shape number becomes its largest value of unity .",
    "an lse consisting of an arbitrary number of atoms all situated on the surface ( perimeter ) of a sphere ( circle ) also gives a value of unity .",
    "[ figshapenumber]b displays the shape number as a function of @xmath35 for the cases of a perfect linear chain and a spherical volume in which the positions of the atoms are chosen randomly .",
    "the data corresponding to the latter case also includes the converged variance . in fig .",
    "[ figshapenumber]a , the peak at a shape number of unity is therefore either due to a strong population of perfect rings containing an arbitrary number of atoms or the many two atom lses discussed previously .",
    "inspection of fig .",
    "[ figshapenumber]c , which plots the scatter diagram between shape number and participation number , demonstrates the latter case , where there exists a dense line of lses with a participation number of approximately two at a shape number of one . for larger lses fig .",
    "[ figbed]c shows that typical participation numbers are between 3 and 5 . in this regime , the shape number for the limiting cases of fig .",
    "[ figshapenumber]b admit shape numbers ranging between 0.7 and 0.85 , which is precisely the location of the central peak in fig .",
    "[ figshapenumber]a .",
    "[ figshapenumber]c shows that lses consisting of greater than five atoms have shape numbers spanning the entire range of possible values indicating that both extended and more compact lse structures are contributing to the peak , a conclusion that is seen in fig .",
    "[ figvis ] .",
    "the enhanced tail at low shape numbers does suggest larger extended lse chains .",
    "importantly , in most cases an lse may be characterized by an approximate sequence of atoms replacing atoms rather than a random rearrangment of atomic positions .",
    "[ figshapenumber]d displays a scatter graph between shape number and activation energy showing that there is little correlation between the spatial extension of an lse and its barrier energy .",
    "the results of sec .  [ secresults ] suggest that the location of an lse is only weakly correlated with the local structural features of those atoms involved . for the lj system",
    "considered , the only non - negligible correlation is that the smaller atoms of type 2 , are more often involved than the larger atoms of type 1 , particularly when the lses consist of only a few atoms and are at the lower range of the activation energy spectrum . despite the strong scatter , this latter aspect suggests a rather intuitive scenario where , because type two atoms generally involve less negative bond energies , the breaking of bonds that must occur in an lse requires less energy and therefore the activation energy should be lower .",
    "indeed this appears to be more important than local voronoi volume since in fig  [ figlaq]b , the volume lse weighted distribution exhibits only a central peak structure not located at volumes typical of type 2 atoms , whereas the local cohesive energy lse distribution clearly correlates with the type 2 unweighted peak ( fig  [ figlaq]a ) .",
    "the remaining , somewhat weaker , correlation with activation energy is that a small or negative lowest local kelvin eigen - shear tends to have a low activation energy .",
    "again , an intuitive result since a small or negative kelvin eigen - shear indicates a shallow potential energy minimum and therefore a smaller activation barrier . in other words ,",
    "the lses occurring in softer regions tend to have lower activation energies .",
    "the atomistic visualization shown in sec .",
    "[ secav ] generally demonstrates lses to be a sequence of atoms that successively replace each others approximate location , with the surrounding atoms accommodating such movement through either elastic or plastic distortion .",
    "this appears to be a general result , although the spatial extension of the atomic sequence can be quite diverse , ranging from an almost linear extension , to strongly curved and closed ring - like structures ( for the smaller lses ) .",
    "although those central atoms within the chain show no obvious decrease in their own local voronoi volume , it is of interest to investigate whether nearby free volume is correlated with their existence .",
    "this is motivated by the original assumption of spaepen in his thermally activated free - volume theory  @xcite . to determine the spatial location of free volume within the computer generated sample",
    ", the simulation cell is filled with a fine regular cubic mesh of points , at a spacing much smaller than the typical inter - atomic distance of @xmath36 .",
    "those mesh points that have a distance to the nearest atom greater than @xmath33 , and which are connected to each other , will then define the spatial extent of a region of free local volume .",
    "@xmath33 can not be too small since then the normal interstitial regions , which span the entire simulation cell , will be identified .",
    "the parameter should also not be too large since then no free volume will be identified . such a method has been used to identify free volume in grain boundaries  @xcite . using a value of @xmath37 , fig .",
    "[ figcop ] displays the identified regions as green balls .",
    "this figure shows that the computer generated sample contains a few regions in which local free volume is above the normal background of interstitial regions .",
    "distribution of minimum distances between the centre - of - position of an lse and free - volume in the sample . for comparison",
    "similar distributions are shown for the case when lses are distributed uniform randomly throughout the simulation cell . ]",
    "[ figfreevolume ] now shows a histogram of , @xmath38 , the nearest lse centre - of - position ( the red coloured balls in fig .",
    "[ figcop ] ) to all identified free volume ( the green coloured balls in fig .",
    "[ figcop ] ) . also shown",
    "are histograms of four random realizations of lse center - of - positions derived from a uniform distribution within the simulation cell .",
    "inspection of this figure shows a slight bias of the art@xmath3 identified lses to be closer to free volume than that of an entirely randomly located lses .",
    "thus there exists some correlation between the location of an lse and nearby free - volume .",
    "the framework of fast @xmath1 and slower @xmath0 structural transformations , originally developed for under - cooled liquids is now often applied to the regime of amorphous solids  @xcite . indeed , in the work of harmon _ et al _ @xcite multiple microscopic @xmath1 structural transformations ( which are assumed to be reversible ) underly the emergence of irreversible @xmath0 transformations in the form of a less local release of elastic energy .",
    "in more recent work  @xcite , which attempts to explain dynamical - mechanical - spectroscopy data , some of these authors have postulated @xmath1 structural transformations to consist of atomic chains of smaller atoms , rather like those encountered in the present work . on the other hand structural transformations that involve both the small and large atoms , tend to reflect @xmath0 transformations  a rather intuitive picture since movement of the larger atoms will tend to involve more atoms due to accommodation issues and therefore be inherently less local .",
    "the usage of the terminology of @xmath0 and @xmath1 transformations in the regime of the amorphous solid is an interesting development given that from the under - cooled liquid perspective the @xmath0 relaxations are assumed to be frozen out below the glass transition temperature  @xcite .",
    "how this freezing occurs , and how far it extends to temperatures and affects plasticity below the glass transition has recently been considered by one of the present authors from the perspective of a thermal activation theory of deformation  @xcite .    within the above framework",
    "a relevant question is , to which class of relaxation processes ( @xmath0 or @xmath1 ) should the identified lses belong .",
    "[ figaorb]a displays a histogram of the change in energy between the initial and final atomic configurations found by art@xmath3 .",
    "in most cases this energy is positive , with a few lses leading to a decrease in energy and therefore a more stable atomic configuration than the initial configuration reached by dynamical atomistic simulations . given that only lses are considered which have a direct path between the initial and activated states ( that is , there exists no intermediate stable configuration ) , fig .",
    "[ figaorb]a suggests that the initial configuration is in the basin of a much larger pel valley and therefore in the valley of the @xmath0 landscape . from this context , the art@xmath3 method appears to be probing primarily the @xmath1 pel involving the first lse stage that would begin the atomic configuration s journey out of its current @xmath0 mega - basin .",
    "[ figaorb]b shows the scatter plot between the change in energy between the initial and final atomic configuration and the corresponding activation energy .",
    "the plot demonstrates the obvious fact that an activated energy can not be less than the final state energy for lses that are directly connected to the initial state .",
    "the figure also reveals that those final states that have an energy less than the initial state are separated by the full spectrum of possible activation energies with only a very few having quite small activation energies .",
    "generally , little correlation is seen apart from the observation that both energy scales are comparable demonstrating that , if the assumed surrounding @xmath0 energy landscape does exist , the underlying `` ripple '' @xmath1 energy scale is that of the lse energy scale .",
    "thus it could be said that @xmath1 processes are not so sensitive to their local environment and that no such statement can be made for the @xmath0 processes .",
    "[ figvis ] shows however that identifying lses as @xmath1 processes has the consequence that bonds are broken for the latter  a result that is different from the view point that only @xmath0 processes involve the breaking of bonds ( see for example ref .",
    "@xcite and references therein ) .",
    "clearly further work is needed to confirm this picture .     a ) normalized distribution of the change in energy between the initial and final state configurations and b ) a scatter plot of this energy difference with the corresponding activation energy . ]",
    "whilst the results found here are not sensitive to a lj sample realization , as well as the quench rate , the sample size is rather small containing only 1728 atoms  a cell size side length of only @xmath39 .",
    "the computational load of the art@xmath3 algorithm makes it difficult to apply the technique to much larger systems .",
    "application of the art@xmath3 method to similar lj systems containing 34,000 atoms ( corresponding to side lengths of @xmath40 ) do reveal lses of similar size to that encountered here suggesting that the lses accessible to art@xmath3 are at the microscopic length scale  @xcite . noting that art@xmath3 converges to nearby minima , this is entirely compatible with the @xmath41 potential energy landscape in which the larger and irreversible @xmath0 transformation landscape is rippled with those of the underlying @xmath1 transformation landscape .",
    "the usage of more realistic inter - atomic multi - component potentials is not expected to fundamentally change the current results , although some fine details of the lse structure unique to the potential / system are expected to occur which are not present in the considered model lj studied here .",
    "finally it is emphasized that it is assumed that art@xmath3 provides an unbiased probe to nearby saddle - point configurations within the potential energy landscape  an assumption that underlies all previous work applying art@xmath3 to structural glasses  @xcite .",
    "in the present work , the art@xmath3 method has been used to identify local structural excitations ( lses ) in three - dimensional model glass samples that have been characterised in terms of their local atomic quantities ( laq ) .",
    "taking advantage of the localised displacement fields of the lses , the mean atomic quantity of an lse is computed via a displacement weighting technique and its distribution compared with total sample and atom type resolved distributions .",
    "it has been found that only a weak correlation exists between the local atomic environment and where an lse occurs , and its activation energy . in particular , it is found that smaller atoms are more often involved and that those with lower activation energy tend to occur in softer potential energy regions . the origin of this appears to lie in the weak bond energy between such atoms . in general , however , lses identified via the art@xmath3 method occur throughout the sample , and in large number , with a slight bias to be near regions of free volume .",
    "atomistic visualization of individual lses reveal them to consist of chain - like structures involving the successive replacement of one atom with that of a nearest neighbour atom and a surrounding accommodation mechanism involving both elastic and plastic distortion .",
    "10 spaepen f 1977 acta metall . 25 407 argon a 1979 acta metall . 27 47 falk m l and langer j s 1998 phy .",
    "e 57 7192 schuh c a and lund a c 2003 nat .",
    "2 449 maloney c e and lematre a 2004 phys . rev .",
    "93 016001 demkowicz m j and argon a s 2005 phys .",
    "b 72 245205 shi y and falk ml 2006 phys . rev .",
    "b 73 214201 guan p , chen m and egami t 2010 phys .",
    "rev . lett . 104 205701 m. j. demkowicz and a. s. argon 2004 phys .",
    "93 025505 m. j. demkowicz and a. s. argon 2005 phys . rev .",
    "b 72 245205 m. j. demkowicz and a. s. argon 2005 phys . rev .",
    "b 72 245206 langer , j. s. , 2008 , phy .",
    "e. , 77 , 021502 .",
    "lonforte f , boissire r , tanguy a , wittmer j p and barrat j - l 2005 phys . rev .",
    "b 72 , 224206 mayr s g 2009 phys . rev .",
    "b 79 060201(r ) barkema g t and mousseau n 1996 phys .",
    "77 4358 mousseau n and barkema g t 1998 phys .",
    "e. 57 2419 olsen r a , kroes g j , henkelman g , arnaldsson a and jnsson h 2004 j. chem .",
    "121 9776 rodney d and schuh c a 2009 phys .",
    "102 235503 rodney d and schuh c a 2009 phys .",
    "b. 80 184203 .",
    "kallel h , mousseau n and schiettekatte f 2010 phys .",
    "105 045503 koziatek p , barrat j - l , derlet p m and rodney d 2013 phys . rev .",
    "b 87 224105 wahnstrm g 1991 physics review a 44 3752 parrinello , m and rahman a 1981 journal of applied physics 52 7182 evans d j and holian b l 1985 journal of chemical physics 83 4069 bell r j and dean p 1970 discussions of the faraday society 50 55 rycroft c h , grest g s , landry j w and bazant m z 2006 , physical review e 74 021306 lutsko j f 1988 j. appl .",
    "64 , 1152 cormier j , rickman j m and delph t j 2001 j. appl .",
    "89 , 99 thomson w 1856 phil .",
    "r. soc . london 146 481 derlet p m and maar and lffler j f 2012 european journal of physics b 85 148 mavko g , mukerji t and dvorkin j 2009 cambridge university press carcione j m and cavallini f 1994 geophysical journal international 119 338 h. r. schober and b. b. laird , phys .",
    "b * 44 * , 6746 ( 1991 ) v. mazzacurati , g. ruocco and m. sampoli , europhys . lett . *",
    "34 * , 681 ( 1996 ) h. r. schober and c. oligschleger , phys . rev .",
    "b * 53 * , 11469 ( 1996 ) v. l. gurevich , d. a. parshin , and h. r. schober , phys . rev .",
    "b * 67 * , 094203 ( 2003 ) v. l. gurevich , d. a. parshin , and h. r. schober , phys . rev .",
    "b * 71 * , 014209 ( 2005 ) d. a. parshin , h. r. schober and v. l. gurevich , phys . rev .",
    "b * 76 * , 064206 ( 2007 ) h. shintani and h. tanaka , nat . mat .",
    "* 7 * , 870 ( 2008 ) g. monaco and s. mossa , proc .",
    "sci . * 106 * , 16907 ( 2009 ) p. w. anderson , phys .",
    "b * 109 * , 192 ( 1958 ) w. garber , f. m. tangerman , p. b. allen and j. l. feldman , philos . mag .",
    "lett . * 81 * , 433 ( 2001 ) b. j. huang and t .- m .",
    "wu , phys .",
    "e * 79 * , 041105 ( 2009 ) p. b. allen , k. l. feldman , j. fabian and f. wooten , phil . mag .",
    "b * 79 * , 1715 ( 1999 ) j.s .",
    "harmon , m.d .",
    "demetriou , w.l .",
    "johnson and k. samwer , phys .",
    "99 ( 2007 ) p.135502 .",
    "yu , h.b and samwer , k. and wu , y. and wang , w. h. 2012 , physical review letters , 109 , 095508 .",
    "yu , h.b and samwer , k. wang , w. h. , bai h. y. nature comm .",
    "2012 , doi:10.1038/ncomms3204 derlet , p. m. and maa , r. 2011 , physical review b : rapid comm , 84 , 220201 .",
    "derlet , p.m. and maa , r. , 2012 , mater .",
    "derlet , p.m. and maa , r. , 2013 phil . mag .",
    "( doi : 10.1080/14786435.2013.826396 ) , arxiv:1302.4551v2 [ cond-mat.soft ] derlet , p.m. and maa , r. , 2013 arxiv:1311.3818 [ cond-mat.soft ] h. van swygenhoven and p. m. derlet , dislocations in solids 14 , 1 ( 2008 ) .",
    "angell , k.l .",
    "ngai , g.b .",
    "mckenna , p.f . mcmillan and s.w .",
    "martin , j. appl .",
    "88 ( 2000 ) p.3113 .",
    "d. rodney , a. tanguy and d. vandembroucq , modelling simul .",
    "eng . 19 ( 2011 ) p.083001 .",
    "derlet , p. m. , gianola d , in preparation ( 2013 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> structural excitations of model lennard - jones glass systems are investigated using the activation - relaxation - technique ( art ) , which explores the potential energy landscape of a local minimum energy configuration by converging to a nearby saddle - point configuration . performing art results in a distribution of barrier energies that is single - peaked for well relaxed samples . </S>",
    "<S> the present work characterises such atomic scale excitations in terms of their local structure and environment . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that , at zero applied stress , many of the identified events consist of chain - like excitations that can either be extended or ring - like in their geometry . </S>",
    "<S> the location and activation energy of these saddle - point structures are found to correlate with the type of atom involved , and with spatial regions that have low shear moduli and are close to the excess free volume within the configuration . </S>",
    "<S> such correlations are however weak and more generally the identified local structural excitations are seen to exist throughout the model glass sample . </S>",
    "<S> the work concludes with a discussion within the framework of @xmath0 and @xmath1 relaxation processes that are known to occur in the under - cooled liquid regime . </S>"
  ]
}