{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxy evolution in groups and clusters can be significantly influenced by environmental processes , such as tidal compression of cluster gravitational fields ( e.g. , byrd & valtonen 1990 ) , merging between group member galaxies ( e.g. , mamon 2001 ) , ram pressure stripping of disk gas ( e.g. , gunn & gott 1972 ) , high external pressure of intracluster medium ( icm ) on galactic gas disks ( e.g. , evrard 1991 ) , multiple high - speed galaxy encounters ( e.g. , moore et al .",
    "1994 ) , and stripping of galactic halo gas by ram pressure of icm ( e.g. , bekki 2009 ) .",
    "one of key issues in extragalactic astronomy is to understand the relative importance of each of these environmental processes in galaxy evolution for different environments ( see boselli & gavazzi 2006 for a recent review on this ) .",
    "ram pressure effect on galactic gas disk is distinct from other environmental processes based on gravitation interaction in the sense that it can influence only the cold gaseous components of disk galaxies ( i.e. , it can not directly influence the stellar components ) .",
    "ram pressure of icm , however , can be a key process for better understanding the star formation histories ( sfhs ) of disk galaxies in groups and clusters , as described throughout this paper .",
    "recent observational studies have shown that ram pressure stripping can influence temporal and spatial variations of star formation ( sf ) in disk galaxies ( e.g. , koopmann & kenny 2004 ; crowl & kenny 2008 ; cortese et al .",
    "2012 ; fossati et al .",
    "for example , koopmann & kenny ( 2004 ) found that spiral galaxies with truncated h@xmath4 disks show undisturbed stellar disks in the virgo cluster and accordingly suggested that hydrodynamical interaction between icm and interstellar medium ( ism ) is responsible for the truncated h@xmath4 disks .",
    "also , these observations found that the h@xmath4-to - optical - disk - size ratio is smaller for spiral galaxies with higher degrees of h  i - deficiency .",
    "( e.g. , a negative correlation between @xmath8 and def@xmath9 ; fossati et al .",
    "given that the time evolution of global colors and chemical abundances of disk galaxy depends strongly on sfhs , these observations suggest that understanding the roles of ram pressure in sfhs of galaxies is important also for better understanding galaxy evolution in general .",
    "although many numerical simulations investigated in what physical conditions ism of galaxies with different morphological types can be stripped by ram pressure ( e.g. , abadi et al . 1999 ; mori & burkert 2000 ; quilis et al .",
    "2000 ; schultz & struck 2001 ; vollmer et al .",
    "2001 ; roediger & hensler 2005 ; roediger & brggen 2007 ; jchym et al . 2007 ; kronberger et al . 2008",
    "; tonnesen & bryan 2012 ) , a surprisingly small number of simulations have so far investigated how the sfhs of disk galaxies can be influenced by ram pressure .",
    "bekki & couch ( 2003 ) demonstrated that external high pressure of icm on gas clouds in disk galaxies can induce the gravitational collapse of the clouds and thus can trigger a very efficient star formation ( starburst ) .",
    "kronberger et al .",
    "( 2008 ) showed that ram pressure of icm can significantly enhance ( by up to a factor of 3 ) the mean star formation rates in the central regions of disk galaxies , if the icm has a density of @xmath10 g @xmath11 and a temperature of @xmath12 k. mastropietro et al .",
    "( 2009 ) investigated how ram pressure of the galactic halo gas can influence the distribution of star - forming regions in the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) .",
    "tonnesen & bryan ( 2012 ) demonstrated that star formation in galactic bulges can be slightly enhanced in disk galaxies under moderately strong ram pressure of icm .",
    "although these previous simulations clearly demonstrated that external high pressure of icm can possibly enhance star formation in disk galaxies under some physical conditions , they did not investigate the long - term ( more than a few gyr ) sfhs of galaxies under ram pressure in a systematic parameter study .",
    "furthermore , these previous simulations did not properly model the time evolution of the strength of ram pressure for disk galaxies which enter into clusters from fields . since the strength of ram pressure depends both on ( i ) the relative velocities between icm and galaxies and on ( ii ) the densities of icm surrounding galaxies , orbital evolution of galaxies within clusters needs to be included in simulating the long - term effects of ram pressure on galaxies . accordingly",
    ", it is unclear how ram pressure can influence sfhs of galaxies when they enter into a cluster environment and passes through its central region .",
    "a more comprehensive systematic parameter study on the influences of ram pressure on sfhs of galaxies is necessary .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to investigate how ram pressure of icm can influence the long - term sfhs of disk galaxies in a comprehensive manner by using numerical simulations with a proper model for time - varying ram pressure force .",
    "we particularly investigate the following questions : ( i ) whether ram pressure can enhance or reduce star formation in disk galaxies , ( ii ) how the effects of ram pressure on galactic sfhs depend on galaxy properties and environments , ( iii ) how the h@xmath4 distributions of disk galaxies under strong ram pressure look like , ( iv ) how the ratios of h@xmath4 disk sizes to optical disk ones depend on galaxy / group / cluster masses , and ( v ) how ram pressure is important for better understanding the observed properties of galaxies in groups and clusters .",
    "given ongoing extensive observational studies of 2d h@xmath4 distribution of star - forming regions in galaxies by multi - object spectrograph on large ground - based telescopes ( e.g. , croom et al .",
    "2012 ; brough et al .",
    "2013 ) , it is very timely for the present study to predict 2d h@xmath4 distributions of star - forming regions in disk galaxies under strong ram pressure .",
    "these predictions will help observers to interpret the origin of the h@xmath4 morphologies of disk galaxies in different environments ( e.g. , moss & whittle 2000 ; koopmann & kenny 2004 ) .",
    "galactic sfhs in groups and clusters have been discussed in the context of gradual decline due to _ halo gas _ stripping ( ` strangulation ' ; larson et al .",
    "2002 ; balogh et al .",
    "2000 ; bekki et al .",
    "2001 , 2002 ; shioya et al .",
    "ram pressure stripping of _ disk gas _ can cause sudden and rapid removal of gas and thus can have more dramatic effects on sfhs of galaxies in comparison with the strangulation mechanism .",
    "the plan of the paper is as follows : in the next section , we describe our new model for time - dependent ram pressure force on disk galaxies in clusters . in  3 , we present the numerical results on the long - term sfhs and spatial distributions of sf regions in disk galaxies under strong ram pressure . in this section , we also discuss the dependences of the results on the adopted model parameters . in  4 , we discuss the possibly important implications of the simulations results .",
    "we summarize our conclusions in  5 .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "fig . 2 shows how the 2d distributions of cold gas and sfr in a mw - type disk galaxy changes with time when the galaxy passes through the central core of a virgo - like cluster . in the early phase of its orbital evolution within the low - mass cluster , the ram pressure of icm is rather weak and",
    "therefore can influence only the very outer part of the gas disk ( @xmath13 gyr ) .",
    "consequently , new stars can continue to form throughout the gas disk as efficiently as the isolated disk in this early evolution phase .",
    "after the pericenter passage ( @xmath14 kpc at @xmath15 gyr ) , the gas disk can be quickly and efficiently stripped by ram pressure so that numerous small gas clumps can form behind the disk ( @xmath16 gyr ) .",
    "these small clumps have head - tail structures and most of them can be completely stripped from the disk galaxy ( i.e. , outside @xmath17 ) during the pericenter passage .",
    "however , a minor fraction of once stripped gas clumps can be returned back to the gas disk when the galaxy goes away from the orbital pericenter , because ram pressure can become weak again ( @xmath18 gyr ) .",
    "these clumps falling back to the original gas disk can be observed as high - velocity clouds in the galaxy .",
    "the details of these stripping processes can be seen in the attached animation , for which the color codes are exactly the same as those in fig .",
    "the attached animation ( ram.f1.avi for high - resolution and ram.f1.mov for low - resolution ) clearly shows ( i ) how the gas disk of the disk galaxy in the fiducial model is stripped by ram pressure of icm and ( ii ) how the 2d distribution of the star - forming regions accordingly changes during the disk evolution .",
    "this animation enables readers to understand better the following points that are not clearly shown in fig . 2 : ( i )",
    "the formation processes of numerous small gas clumps during ram pressure stripping , ( ii ) the formation head - tail structures of the clumps , ( iii ) the re - accretion process of the clumps , and ( iv ) the sudden truncation of sf in the outer disk during ram pressure stripping .    owing to the severe truncation of the outer gas disk by ram pressure stripping , sf in the outer disk ( @xmath19 ) can be completely shut down . as a result of this",
    ", the 2d @xmath20 distribution shows a sharp edge around @xmath21 kpc at @xmath18 gyr .",
    "it is intriguing that the outer 2d @xmath20 distribution looks like a ring with a central concentration .",
    "this ring - like distribution of new stars is characteristic for disk galaxies under strong ram pressure stripping , as discussed later .",
    "the left panel of fig .",
    "3 shows that in spite of efficient gas stripping , the sfr of the disk galaxy can become higher than the sfr of the isolated model at @xmath22 gyr .",
    "a physical explanation for this moderate sf enhancement is as follows .",
    "when the disk galaxy becomes closer to the orbital pericenter , ram pressure becomes moderately strong and starts to compress the inner part of the gas disk so that a significant fraction of gas particles can have higher gas densities .",
    "this compression of gas by ram pressure can be the strongest at the pericenter passage of the galaxy . as a result of this , sf can be moderately enhanced largely in the central region of the disk at the pericenter passage .",
    "the physical mechanism of this is discussed more extensively in  3.5 .",
    "the left panel of fig .",
    "3 shows that @xmath23 ( @xmath24 corresponding to the observed h@xmath4-to - optical - disk - size ratio ) can become significantly smaller after the pericenter passage owing to the truncated sf in the outer disk . the half - mass radius of new stars ( @xmath25 ) ,",
    "however , does not change significantly during ram pressure stripping .",
    "this means that ram pressure can only influence the outer star - forming disk in this model .",
    "the total mass of new stars ( @xmath26 ) formed during @xmath27 gyr evolution of the disk is only slightly larger than that in the isolated model , which means that the positive effect of ram pressure on sf ( i.e. , sf enhancement ) can surpass the negative one ( i.e. , sf reduction ) in this mw - type disk galaxy .",
    "it should be noted , however , that it depends on @xmath0 , @xmath28 , and @xmath29 ( @xmath30 ) of disk galaxies on which of these two effects can be more dominant in sfhs of disk galaxies for a given environment ( this point is later discussed in  3.2 . )",
    "the right two panels of fig .",
    "3 show that the final projected density distributions ( @xmath31 ) of gas are quite different between the isolated and fiducial models , though the distributions of new stars are not so different between the two .",
    "the gaseous distributions with almost constant @xmath31 for 4 kpc @xmath32 10 kpc and very steep @xmath31 decline beyond @xmath33 kpc in the fiducial model clearly mean that ram pressure can significantly increase the gas density in the inner region of the gas disk .",
    "the inner region with constant @xmath31 is roughly coincident with the location of a ring - like structure of young stars shown in fig .",
    "2 ( and later in fig .",
    "4 ) . this coincidence provides the following explanation for the origin of the ring - like structure . during efficient ram pressure stripping of the outer gas disk ( which ends up with the sharp @xmath31 decline at @xmath34 10 kpc in fig.3 )",
    ", the inner gas disk can be strongly compressed by ram pressure .",
    "consequently , the gas density of the inner gas disk ( 4 kpc @xmath35 10 kpc ) can become so high that new stars can form from the gas disk .",
    "the gas at the circumnuclear region ( @xmath36 2 kpc ) can be rapidly consumed by star formation so that the sfr there can be relatively low at the time of pericenter passage .",
    "thus , a ring - like young star - forming region can be formed after ram pressure stripping .",
    "the right panel of fig .",
    "4 shows that ( i ) sf can be actively ongoing in the central bulge region and ( ii ) the disk has an intriguing ring - like h@xmath4 morphology after ram pressure stripping of the outer gas disk ( @xmath18 gyr ) .",
    "the outer sharp edge of the h@xmath4 ring corresponds to the outer edge of the truncated gas disk .",
    "given that such a ring - like structure can not be seen in the disk at @xmath13 gyr ( left panel of fig .",
    "4 ) and in the isolated model , the formation of the ring is caused by the effects of ram pressure on the gas disk .",
    "such a ring - like distribution of star - forming regions is indeed observed for ngc 4569 in the virgo cluster ( e.g. , koopmann & kenny 2004 ) .",
    "the simulated ring - like h@xmath4 morphology is one of characteristic distributions of h@xmath4 in disk galaxies under strong ram pressure , as described later",
    ".      figs .",
    "@xmath37 summarize the dependences of the time evolution of sfrs , @xmath23 ( corresponding to h@xmath4-to - optical - disk - size ratio ) , and @xmath38 ( long - term conversion efficiencies of cold ism into new stars ) on disk inclination angles ( @xmath29 and @xmath30 ) , halo masses of galaxies ( @xmath0 ) , orbits ( e.g. , @xmath28 ) , and group / cluster masses ( @xmath0 ) . for figs .",
    "@xmath39 , the results of the disk models with @xmath40 and @xmath41 ( ` in ' models ) are shown , because such inclined disk configurations with respect to the orbits of galaxies can be more typical and more realistic for real ism - icm interaction in groups and clusters .      as shown in fig . 5 , sfhs of mw - type galaxies after pericenter passage depend strongly on disk inclination angles for the low - mass virgo cluster model .",
    "clearly , sf can be more strongly enhanced by ram pressure in the edge - on disk inclination than in the face - on and inclined ones .",
    "ram pressure can be responsible both for efficient gas stripping and for strong compression of gas .",
    "for the edge - on model , the latter effect is more dominant than the former one so that sf can be significantly enhanced in the central region of the gas disk .",
    "the level of sf enhancement in the edge - on model is significant ( i.e. , similar to the initial active sf phase ) and can continue for @xmath42 gyr after pericenter passage .",
    "either ` reactivation ' or ` rejuvenation ' would be a better word for describing the effect of ram pressure on the galactic sfh of the edge - one model .",
    "as shown in fig .",
    "6 , both sfrs and @xmath23 can be more significantly reduced in less massive disk galaxies for the i1 orbit in the virgo cluster model with @xmath6 .",
    "the mw - type galaxy shows a slightly enhanced sfr after pericenter passage whereas the m33-type shows a sudden and significant sfr decrease in the i1 orbit .",
    "the @xmath23 parameter can be reduced by @xmath43% for the mw - type and by @xmath44% for the m33-type in this orbit , which means that the m33-type has a more compact h@xmath4 disk . sf in the dwarf - type can be suddenly shut down ( ` sf quenching ' ) and thus @xmath23 becomes 0 after pericenter - passage owing to the complete stripping of cold gas from the disk by ram pressure in this i1 orbit .",
    "the @xmath38 parameter can become larger than 1 for the mw - type owing to the moderate sf enhancement in the central bulge region whereas it can be significantly lower than 1 for m33-type and dwarf - type in this i1 orbit .",
    "these results suggest that sfhs and 2d distributions of sf regions in less massive disk galaxies can be more strongly influenced by ram pressure in clusters .",
    "the modest sf enhancement of the mw - type and the sudden sf quenching of the dwarf - type derived in the i1 orbit can be seen in other orbits of the virgo model and in some orbits of the coma and the group models .",
    "however , the significant sf reduction of the m33-type derived in the i1 orbit can not be clearly seen in other orbits of the virgo models .",
    "this simply means that sfhs of disk galaxies can be determined not only by their masses but also by other parameters ( @xmath28 and group / cluster masses ) .",
    "the dependences of the time evolution of @xmath23 on galaxy masses derived in the i1 orbit of the virgo model can be seen in other orbital types ( i2 , i3 , b1 , and b2 ) of the virgo model and some orbits of the coma cluster model ( see fig .",
    "the degrees of sf and @xmath23 reduction by ram pressure , however , can depend on orbital types and group / cluster masses , as shown in figs .",
    "6@xmath458 , which is described later .",
    "it should be noted that moderate sf enhancement by ram pressure can be clearly seen only in the mw type ( not so clear in the m33-type and the dwarf - type for all models ) .",
    "the orbital pericenter distances ( @xmath28 ) are 42 , 72 , 102 , 102 , and 195 kpc for the orbital types i1 , i2 , i3 , b1 , and b2 in the virgo model . accordingly",
    ", it is clear from figs .",
    "6 that @xmath23 can be more significantly reduced in the m33-type with smaller @xmath28 among the three infall models ( i1 , i2 , and i3 ) .",
    "this dependence on @xmath28 can be seen in the m33-type and the dwarf - type for the two bound orbits .",
    "although final @xmath23 for the mw - type is significantly smaller than that of the isolated model for all orbits , the dependence of final @xmath23 on @xmath28 is not so clear for the mw - type .",
    "smaller final @xmath38 and more significant sf reduction are likely to occur in the dwarf - type with smaller @xmath28 .",
    "these derived dependences of sfhs , @xmath23 , and @xmath38 can be seen in the coma model and the group one .",
    "these dependences on the orbits of galaxies are due largely to the differences of the influences of ram pressure force on gaseous evolution ( thus on sfhs ) between different models .    the differences in @xmath46 ( the epoch of pericenter passage ) between models with different orbits can be as large as @xmath42 gyr .",
    "this means that the total gas masses ( @xmath47 ) of disks at @xmath46 can be significantly different between different models thus that the restoring force of gas disks can be different between the models at @xmath46 .",
    "therefore the differences of @xmath47 at @xmath46 might be responsible for the dependences of the present results on the orbits of galaxies .",
    "however , the differences in @xmath47 at @xmath46 between models with different orbits are rather small . for example",
    ", @xmath47 in the isolated mw model is @xmath48 at @xmath49 gyr ( corresponding to the vi - b1-mw - in model ) and @xmath50 at @xmath51 gyr ( vi - i1-mw - in model ) .",
    "these values can be roughly estimated from the time evolution of @xmath26 in fig . 3 and the adopted larger initial @xmath47 ( @xmath52 ) .",
    "therefore , the possible small difference ( @xmath53% ) in the restoring force of gas disks is highly unlikely to influence the time evolution of sf in disks under ram pressure .",
    "we therefore consider that the derived dependences of the present results on the orbits of galaxies are due largely to the differences of the influences of ram pressure force on gas disks between different models .",
    "7 shows that irrespective of galaxy - masses , sf in disks can be suddenly and completely truncated after pericenter passage in the coma model , as long as @xmath28 is small enough .",
    "not only the m33-type and the dwarf - type but also the mw - type shows sf quenching in the orbit i1 and i2 in this massive cluster model .",
    "these results are in a striking contrast with those for the low - mass virgo model , which implies that sf in mw - type disk galaxies can be quenched only in massive clusters .",
    "it is intriguing that sf enhancement does not occur for the mw - type in i1 and i2 of the coma model , though sf enhancement can be frequently seen in the virgo model and the group one .",
    "this result implies that moderately strong ram pressure is required for sf of mw - type disk galaxies to be moderately enhanced .",
    "too strong ram pressure can simply strip the entire gas disk so that sf enhancement by compression of gas by ram pressure can not occur .",
    "8 shows that sf enhancement by ram pressure after pericenter passage in the mw - type is more pronounced in the group model than in the virgo one ( in particular , orbits i1 and i2 ) .",
    "furthermore , the final @xmath38 in the mw - type is significantly larger than 1 for these i1 and i2 orbits , which means that cold gas is more efficiently converted into new stars owing to compression of gas by ram pressure .",
    "these results imply that although @xmath23 of luminous disk galaxies in a group can become slightly smaller ( i.e. , slightly truncated h@xmath4 disk ) owing to ram pressure of the intragroup gas , their sf activity can be enhanced , as long as their @xmath28 can be small enough .",
    "the dwarf - type with smaller @xmath28 ( i1 and i2 orbits ) shows almost complete truncation of sf even in this group environment .",
    "it should be noted , however , that the dw - type with the b2 orbit shows a very slight sf enhancement after pericenter passage ( in comparison with the isolated model ) and thus @xmath54 .",
    "these results suggest that ram pressure of intragroup gas can be important for the sfhs of disk galaxies in group environments .",
    "9 presents a collection of the following four characteristic h@xmath4 morphologies seen in the simulated disk galaxies of the present study : ( i ) very compact and severely truncated , ( ii ) one - sided and outer crescent - like , ( iii ) broken ring - like and patchy , and ( iv ) an outer high - density ring ( distributions ) .",
    "these characteristic h@xmath4 morphologies are not seen in isolated models and thus regarded as being due to ram pressure effects .",
    "the severely truncated distribution can be seen more frequently in disk galaxy models just before the complete truncation of sf by ram pressure .",
    "the one - sided or crescent - like ( or one - spiral - arm - like ) distribution can be more clearly seen in disk galaxy models with edge - on disk inclination in which only one side of the gas disk can be strongly influenced by hydrodynamical force of ram pressure .",
    "disk galaxies with these crescent - like h@xmath4 distributions often show enhanced global sfrs .",
    "the broken ring - like distributions can be frequently seen in disk models with face - on ( @xmath55 and @xmath56 ) or inclined ( @xmath40 and @xmath41 ) disk configurations .",
    "this ring - like distribution is not due to the dynamical action of central bars , because it is confirmed that this ring - like distribution can be seen in the disk models with big bulges for which bar formation via global bar instability is unlikely .",
    "the outer rings with significant sf enhancement within the rings can be seen for disk galaxy models with smaller @xmath28 orbiting the group .",
    "the ring - like distributions of enhanced sf regions can not be seen in isolated models , which suggests that such ring - like distributions can be used for searching for evidence of an environmental effect of a group on sfhs of disk galaxies .",
    "10 summarizes the following four basic modes of sf in disk galaxies orbiting groups and clusters of galaxies : ( i ) enhanced , ( ii ) reduced , ( iii ) quenched , and ( iv ) unaffected ( sf ) .",
    "the ` enhanced sf ' mode means that sfrs can be moderately enhanced by ram pressure but can not be as high as the sfrs of starburst galaxies whereas the ` unaffected sf ' mode means that sfrs can not change significantly ( though very slight increase in sf can be seen during / after ram pressure ) .",
    "the enhanced sf mode is more frequently seen in the mw - type whereas the quenched and reduced sf modes are more frequently seen in the dwarf - type in the present study .    as described in the preceding sections , sfhs of disk galaxies can be enhanced or reduced depending on model parameters .",
    "therefore , it would be unrealistic for any theoretical studies on statistical properties of galactic sf to assume that irrespective of galaxy - masses , group / cluster masses , and orbital types , sf of galaxies in groups and cluster can be quenched after pericenter passage . the origin of passive red spiral galaxies observed in distant clusters ( e.g. , dressler et al .",
    "1998 ) can be closely related to the quenched sf mode . on the other hand ,",
    "the origin of disk galaxies with local sf enhancement in their outer disks observed in the virgo cluster ( e.g. , koopmann & kenney 2004 ) has something to do with the enhanced sf mode .",
    "although we have shown that sf in disk galaxies can be enhanced by ram pressure in the present simulations , we have only briefly mentioned a possible physical process responsible for this sf enhancement . in order to demonstrate more clearly why ram pressure can cause the modest enhancement of sf in disk galaxies , we investigate ( i ) the time evolution of gas densities ( of sph particles ) and ( ii ) the density - temperature diagram of the particles during and after ram pressure stripping .",
    "we investigate these two points for gas particles that are finally converted into new stars , because it is meaningless for us to investigate these for all gas particles including stripped ones for the purpose of clarifying the physical mechanism of the derived sf enhancement .",
    "we choose the vi - i1-mw - ed mode for this investigation , because the model clearly shows a sf enhancement .",
    "the sfh of this model is already described in fig .",
    "5 ( as ` edge - on ' model ) .    fig .",
    "11 shows that the densities of star - forming gas particles significantly increase after the pericenter passage of the disk galaxy in this model . fig .",
    "11 furthermore shows that the locations of gas particles on the @xmath57 plane after the pericenter passage are quite different from those in the isolated disk model .",
    "a significant fraction of gas particles can have higher @xmath58 and higher @xmath59 in the star - forming disk under ram pressure .",
    "these results confirm that the modest sf enhancement derived in the present simulations is due to the significant increase of gas densities caused by compression of gas by ram pressure of icm .",
    "so far , we have presented the results of the models with a fixed @xmath60 ( = 1 @xmath11 ) and @xmath61 ( = 10@xmath62 yr ) . although we consider that these parameter values for sf threshold gas density and sn feedback effect are quite reasonable and realistic for the present investigation , it is important for the present study to discuss whether or not the present results are sensitive to the choice of these parameters .",
    "we therefore discuss this point by presenting the results for the models ( vi - i1-mw - in ) with different @xmath60 ( @xmath63 @xmath11 and @xmath64 @xmath11 ) and @xmath61 ( @xmath65 yr , @xmath66 yr and @xmath67 yr , which are referred to as ` weak ' , ` standard ' , and ` strong ' sn feedback , respectively ) . the isolated models with these weak and strong sn feedback show significantly higher and lower initial sfrs than a reasonable sfr of @xmath68 for a mw - type disk galaxy , respectively .",
    "these models are therefore less realistic than those with the standard sn feedback ( @xmath69 yr ) .    fig .",
    "12 shows that modest enhancement in sf after pericenter passage can be seen in the models with @xmath70 and 1 @xmath11 , which confirms that the present results on the sf enhancement by ram pressure are not sensitive to the choice of @xmath60 .",
    "furthermore , fig .",
    "12 shows that sf enhancement can be seen in the model with strong sn feedback effects in which sn explosions can cause gaseous outflow from the disk galaxy .",
    "the sf enhancement can be clearly seen in the models with different @xmath61 , though the levels of sf enhancement are slightly different between the three models with weak , standard , and strong sn feedback .",
    "these results demonstrate that the present results on sf enhancement by ram pressure do not depend strongly on the details of the modeling of sn feedback effects .",
    "we have shown that _ in some models _ , sf can be enhanced rather than truncated in mw - type disk galaxy when they pass the pericenter of their orbits within clusters .",
    "the high pressure of icm can ( externally ) compress the cold ism in disk galaxies so that sfrs , which are assumed to depend on local gas densities in the present study , can significantly increase . using analytic models of galaxy evolution in clusters , fujita & nagashima ( 1999 ) predicted that sfrs of disk galaxies can increase by a factor of @xmath71 as galaxies approach the central regions of clusters , because ism of the galaxies can be strongly compressed by high pressure of icm at the pericenter passages .",
    "previous numerical simulations also demonstrated that star formation in mw - type galaxies can be enhanced , if their ism are under strong influences of high pressure of icm ( e.g. , bekki & couch 2003 ; kronberger et al .",
    "it should be stressed , however , that this sf enhancement in mw - type disk galaxies is modest ( i.e. , not like a starburst with a factor of @xmath72 sfr increase ) and can not last long .",
    "such a modest level of sf enhancement in disk galaxies under ram pressure has been recently observed by integrated - field spectroscopy and multi - band imaging ( e.g. , merluzzi et al .",
    "2013 ) .",
    "the derived modest sf enhancement implies that sf in mw - type disk galaxies could not monotonically decline after they enter into cluster environments .",
    "stripping of _ halo gas _ of disk galaxies by cluster tide ( bekki et al .",
    "2001 ) and ram pressure of icm ( mccarthy et al . 2008",
    "; bekki 2009 ) can cause gradual decline of their star formation ( e.g. , larson et al .",
    "however , moderately strong ram pressure on _ ism in disks _ can enhance star formation of disk galaxies in clusters : cluster environments have positive and negative effects on galactic star formation histories . in recent semi - analytic models ( sams ) of galaxy formation based on a @xmath73cdm cosmology , star - formation quenching is assumed to occur in galaxies after their pericenter passages within groups and clusters ( e.g. , wetzel et al .",
    "the present study strongly suggest that ( i ) galactic star formation in clusters is not so simple as modeled in these semi - analytic studies , and thus ( ii ) not only sf quenching but also sf enhancement would need to be correctly included in their models for better understanding galaxy evolution in clusters .",
    "however , it is quantitatively unclear how dramatically the predictions of sams can change if the above ram pressure effects on sfrs of galaxies are more properly included in sams . given that the sf enhancement by ram pressure is modest and a significant fraction of disk galaxies can have ` unaffected ' sf modes after ram pressure stripping , such an inclusion of ram pressure effects in sams would not dramatically change the already existing predictions . since sf",
    "enhancement means more rapid gas consumption , galaxies in groups / cluster might show reduced sf on average .",
    "one of key results in the present study is that the final h@xmath4-to - optical - disk - size ratios ( @xmath23 ) in disk galaxies under ram pressure of icm depend primarily on their orbits ( in particular , pericenter distances ) , galaxy masses , inclination angles of disks with respect to orbital directions , and cluster masses . among these dependences of @xmath23 ,",
    "an observable one is that disk galaxies are likely to show smaller @xmath23 in more massive clusters .",
    "this dependence of @xmath23 on @xmath0 would not be so surprising and could be possibly confirmed by observations . however , systematic observational studies on the dependence of @xmath23 on @xmath0 ( or other cluster properties ) have not been done yet .",
    "koopmann & kenny ( 2004 ) investigated h@xmath4 morphologies of spiral galaxies in the virgo cluster and found that about 52% of the spiral galaxies show truncated h@xmath4 disks ( smaller @xmath23 ) , particularly , in those with truncated h  i disks ( see their fig .",
    "they therefore concluded that the observed truncated sf regions in the virgo can be caused by ism - icm hydrodynamical interaction .",
    "future observational studies on the dependences of @xmath23 on @xmath0 ( also on group / cluster sizes and densities ) could be doubtlessly worthwhile as follows . moss & whittle ( 2000 ) investigated sf regions of disk galaxies in eight low - redshift abell clusters and revealed that strong evidence for tidally induced star formation can be more frequently found in higher local galaxy surface density .",
    "bretherton et al .",
    "( 2013 ) have also found that disk galaxies with enhanced sfrs in their cluster samples show evidence of disturbance .",
    "these two observational studies imply that galaxy interaction can be also important in changing sf regions of galaxies in clusters and thus is a key parameter that controls @xmath23 .",
    "therefore , a key question here is how the relative importance of ram pressure and tidal interaction in determining @xmath23 changes with galaxy environments ( e.g. , @xmath0 ) .",
    "the present study has shown that @xmath23 can be smaller for disk galaxies within more massive clusters , because ram pressure is likely to be stronger in the clusters .",
    "also the reduction of @xmath23 can be less severe in groups than in clusters owing to the the weaker ram pressure force in groups . on the other hand",
    ", @xmath23 is unlikely to be less than 1 during tidal interaction , because both gas and old stars within a certain tidal radius can be equally stripped .",
    "furthermore slow yet strong galaxy interaction can be an important physical mechanism for enhancing rather than quenching sf in disk galaxies in groups ( bekki & couch 2011 ) .",
    "therefore , it would be possible that ( i ) more massive clusters show a larger number of galaxies with smaller @xmath23 in comparison with less massive clusters and ( ii ) groups have different @xmath23 distributions in comparison with clusters ( e.g. , most of group member galaxies show @xmath23 almost equal to or larger than 1 ) .",
    "thus , future observational studies on the dependences of @xmath23 on group / cluster masses ( @xmath0 ) will enable us to understand the relative importance of ram pressure and tidal interaction in determining the 2d distributions of sf regions of disk galaxies in different environments .",
    "the present study has shown that ( i ) low - mass disk galaxies can lose the entire gas disks through ram pressure stripping at their pericenter passage even in low - mass clusters with @xmath6 and ( ii ) sf can be completely and suddenly truncated ( or quenched ) after the pericenter passage .",
    "sf is very active in these low - mass , gas - rich disk galaxies before sf quenching , and the stellar disk components can not be influenced at all by ram pressure stripping of ism in these galaxies .",
    "therefore , the present results imply that these low - mass disk galaxies which suddenly lose their gas can be identified as ` e+a ' disk galaxies with poststarburst spectra @xmath74 gyr after sf quenching .",
    "recent observational studies of spatial distributions of stellar populations and kinematics in e+as ( e.g. , pracy et al . 2009 ; 2012 )",
    "have shown that the observed properties of most e+as are consistent with the simulated ones based on a major merger scenario in which e+as can form from major merging with strong starbursts and evolve then into elliptical galaxies ( e.g. , bekki et al .",
    "these results accordingly imply that disky e+as ( i.e. , those which are not formed from major merging ) could be a minor population .    although the observed negative radial gradients of balmer absorption lines ( i.e. , stronger in inner regions ) are demonstrated to be consistent with the major merger scenario of e+a formation ( pracy et al .",
    "2012 ) , some e+as show rather flat radial gradients of balmer absorption lines ( e.g. , e+a 1 in pracy et al .",
    "disk galaxies which very quickly lose their entire gas disks through ram pressure stripping should show no / little radial gradients of balmer absorption lines owing to sudden and complete truncation of sf for the entire disks .",
    "therefore , the observed flat radial gradients of e+as in pracy et al .",
    "( 2012 ) appear to be consistent with e+a formation through ram pressure stripping in disk galaxies .",
    "interestingly , e+a 1 in pracy et al .",
    "( 2012 ) has a dwarf - like luminosity ( @xmath75 mag ) , which appears to be consistent with the present result that low - mass disks are more likely to become disky e+as .",
    "given that tran et al .",
    "( 2003 ) found many disky e+as in clusters , the present study suggests that future observational studies on 2d distributions of balmer absorption lines in disky e+as will enable us to discuss whether ram pressure stripping can be a major mechanism for e+a formation in clusters .",
    "the present study has clearly shown that sf quenching ( i.e. , complete truncation of sf ) is possible in disk galaxies within groups and cluster for some models under some physical conditions ( e.g. , smaller @xmath28 and lower galaxy masses ) .",
    "sf quenching has been demonstrated to occur in disk galaxies _ at first pericenter passage _ within clusters , as long as @xmath28 is small enough ( @xmath28 well less than @xmath76 ) .",
    "therefore , if the timescale for sf quenching is the time lag between when a galaxy first enters within a virial radius of its host cluster and when it passes through the orbital pericenter , then the timescale can be @xmath77 gyr for clusters .",
    "the present study has also shown that sf in the mw - type disk galaxies can not be completely truncated within 3.4 gyr ( during just once pericenter passage ) , if they have bound orbits ( b1 and b2 ) with larger @xmath28 in the high - mass clusters .",
    "it is , however , unclear whether sf in mw - type disk galaxies within clusters can be quenched if the galaxies can pass the pericenter twice or more .",
    "we have investigated the long - term sfhs ( 5.6 gyr ) of disks galaxies with bound orbits ( b1 and b2 ) for the virgo model and the coma one in order to understand whether sf quenching is possible for the mw - type disk galaxies with bound orbits and larger @xmath28 in clusters .",
    "13 shows that although sf quenching is not possible in the mw - type galaxies with bound orbits within 5.6 gyr for the low - mass virgo cluster model , dramatic sf reduction ( almost sf quenching ) is possible in the galaxies for the high - mass coma model .",
    "this result implies that ( i ) sf quenching by ram pressure stripping is unlikely to occur in luminous disk galaxies for low - mass clusters and ( ii ) sf quenching timescale can be as long as @xmath78 gyr for luminous disk galaxies with larger @xmath28 for high - mass clusters .",
    "ram pressure stripping of cold gas from disk galaxies would not be the only mechanism of sf quenching within several gyr for clusters , and tidal stripping due to galaxy interaction and cluster tide could be also responsible for sf quenching .",
    "it is thus our future study to investigate how ram pressure and tidal interaction can combine to quench sf in disk galaxies within clusters .",
    "we have investigated the long - term sfhs ( more than @xmath53 gyr ) and the spatial distributions of sf regions of disk galaxies under strong ram pressure of icm in clusters of galaxies by using numerical simulations with a new model for time - varying ram pressure force .",
    "the key parameters are ( i ) group / cluster halo masses ( @xmath0 ) , ( ii ) pericenter distances of orbits ( @xmath28 ) , ( iii ) inclination angles of disks with respect to the direction of their orbits ( @xmath29 and @xmath30 ) , and ( iv ) galaxy - types ( e.g. , mw - type ) .",
    "the principal results of the present numerical simulations are as follows .",
    "+ ( 1 ) ram pressure of icm has the following three major effects on sfhs of disk galaxies in groups and clusters : ( i ) temporary and moderate enhancement of sf at pericenter passage , ( ii ) significant decline of sfrs after pericenter passage , ( iii ) complete truncation of sf ( ` sf quenching ' ) after pericenter passage .",
    "it depends on @xmath0 , @xmath28 , and @xmath29 ( @xmath30 ) which of these three effects can be the most dominant for sfhs of galaxies in groups and clusters",
    ". it would be therefore unrealistic to adopt an assumption that sf of galaxies in groups and clusters can be uniformly shut down after pericenter passage in theoretical modeling on statistical properties of galactic sf and spectrophotometric properties in groups and clusters .",
    "+ ( 2 ) sf enhancement by ram pressure is more likely to occur in mw - type disk galaxies , and the degree of sf enhancement is more significant in the galaxies with lower inclination angles ( e.g. , edge - on configurations ) .",
    "however , such sf enhancement is only temporary ( during and shortly after pericenter passage ) and only modest ( not like a factor of @xmath72 increase in sfrs ) in most cases .",
    "less massive disk galaxies are less likely to show sf enhancement in clusters , because the entire gas disk can be stripped from less massive disks by even moderately strong ram pressure . sf enhancement by ram pressure",
    "can occur preferentially in the inner regions of disks , which implies that the inner mass densities can be slightly increased in disk galaxies under ram pressure .",
    "+ ( 3 ) the dominant role of ram pressure in galactic sfhs is the significant reduction of overall sf in disk galaxies .",
    "the degree of sf decline depends strongly on group / cluster masses for a given set of galaxy parameters such that it can be more remarkable in groups and clusters with larger @xmath0 .",
    "the level of sf decline by ram pressure can be more remarkable in less massive disk galaxies for a given group / cluster mass .",
    "galaxies with smaller @xmath28 show more severe sf decline in groups and clusters .",
    "+ ( 4 ) complete truncation of sf ( ` quenching ' ) can occur in disk galaxies with different masses after pericenter passage in high - mass clusters ( @xmath79 ) , as long as @xmath28 is small enough ( @xmath80 ) .",
    "in low - mass clusters with @xmath6 , sf quenching is unlikely to occur in mw - type disk galaxies owing to weaker ram pressure .",
    "these results imply that although the formation of anemic spirals is possible in low - mass clusters like the virgo , the formation of passive spirals with no ongoing sf is unlikely in such clusters .",
    "+ ( 5 ) complete and sudden truncation of sf after pericenter passage is more likely to occur in dwarf - like disk galaxies within groups and clusters .",
    "the likely outcome of this is that the galaxies can show poststarburst ( ` e+a ' ) spectra characterized by strong balmer absorption lines in the entire disks .",
    "the possible no / weak radial gradients of balmer absorption lines in disky e+as with rotational kinematics is in striking contrast to the negative radial gradients observed in e+as formed from major galaxy merging .",
    "thus , the present study predicts that ( i ) ram pressure can be responsible for the formation of disky e+as observed in clusters and ( ii ) disky e+as are likely to be dwarf - like disk galaxies .",
    "+ ( 6 ) ram pressure stripping of the outer gas disks of galaxies can significantly reduce the h@xmath4-to - optical - disk - size ratios ( @xmath81 ) of the galaxies after pericenter passage .",
    "the level of @xmath23 reduction is likely to be more remarkable for disk galaxies in more massive clusters .",
    "the @xmath23 reduction also depends on @xmath0 and @xmath28 of disk galaxies for a given group / cluster mass and disk inclination angles ( @xmath29 and @xmath30 ) such that it can be more remarkable for smaller @xmath0 and smaller @xmath28 .",
    "such @xmath23 reduction can be seen for disk galaxies even in massive groups with @xmath82 in which intragroup halo gas is warm rather than hot ( @xmath83 k ) .",
    "this result implies that sf regions can be also truncated ( to a lesser degree ) in group environment .",
    "gas stripping by ram pressure can be efficient in groups and thus responsible for the lack of high h  i mass galaxies observed in some groups ( e.g. , kilborn et al .",
    "+ ( 7 ) the global h@xmath4 morphologies corresponding to 2d distributions of sf regions in disk galaxies can be significantly changed by ram pressure .",
    "disk galaxies under strong ram pressure can often show characteristic h@xmath4 morphologies , such as ring - like , one - sided , crescent - like , and highly asymmetric distributions .",
    "these results imply that 2d h@xmath4 distributions of disk galaxies can be used for revealing a physical effect of ram pressure on disk galaxies in groups and clusters .",
    "i ( kenji bekki ; kb ) am grateful to the referee for constructive and useful comments that improved this paper .",
    "numerical simulations reported here were carried out on the three gpu clusters , pleiades , fornax , and gstar kindly made available by international centre for radio astronomy research ( icrar ) at the university of western australia , ivec , and the center for astrophysics and supercomputing in the swinburne university , respectively .",
    "this research was supported by resources awarded under the astronomy australia ltd s astac scheme on swinburne with support from the australian government .",
    "gstar is funded by swinburne and the australian government s education investment fund .",
    "kb acknowledges the financial support of the australian research council throughout the course of this work .",
    "abadi , m. g. , moore , b. , bower , r. g. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 947    balogh , m. l. , navarro , j. f. , morris , s. l. , 2000 , apj , 540 , 113    bekki , k. 2009 , mnras , 399 , 2221    bekki , k. , 2013 , mnras , 432 , 2298    bekki , k. , shioya , y. , 1998 , apj , 497 , 108    bekki , k. , couch , w. j. , shioya , y. , 2001 , pasj , 53 , 395    bekki , k. , couch , w. j. , shioya , y. , 2002 , apj , 577 , 651    bekki , k. , couch , w. j. , 2003 , apj , 596 , l13    bekki , k. , couch , w. j. , shioya , y. , vazdekis , a. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 949    bekki , k. , owers , m. s. , couch , w. j. , 2010 , apj , 718 , l27    bekki , k. , couch , w. j. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 1783    boselli , a. , gavazzi , g. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 517    bretherton , c. f. , moss , c. , james , p. a. , 2013 , a&a , 553 , 67    brough , s. , et al . , 2013 , mnras in press ( arxiv:1308.2985 )    byrd , g. valtonen , m. , 1990 , apj , 350 , 89    cortese , l. , et al .",
    ", 2012 , a&a , 544 , 101    croom , s. m. , et al . , 2012 , mnras , 421 , 872    crowl , h. h. , kenney , j. d. p. , 2008",
    ", aj , 136 , 1623    dressler , a. , oemler , a. , couch , w. j. , smail , i. , ellis , r. s. , barger , a. , butcher , h. , poggianti . b. m. , sharples , r. m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 577    evrard , a. e. , 1991 , mnras , 248 ,",
    "p8    fossati , m. , et al .",
    "2013 , a&a , 553 , 91    fujita , y. , nagashima , m. , 1999 , apj , 516 , 619    gunn , j. e. , gott , j. r. iii . , 1972 , apj , 176 , 1    helsdon , s. f. , ponman , t. j. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , l29    jchym , p. , palous , j. , kppen , j. , combes , f. , 2007 , a&a .",
    "472 , 5    kennicutt , r. c. 1998 , apj , 498 , 541    kilborn , v. a. , forbes , d. a. , barnes , d. g. , koribalski , b. s. , brough , s. , kern , k. , 2009 , mnras , 400 , 1962    koopmann , r. a. , kenney , j. d. p. , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 613 , 866    kronberger , t. , kapferer , w. , ferrari , c. , unterguggenberger , s. , schindler , s. , 2008 , a&a , 481 , 337    larson , r. b. , tinsley , b. m. , caldwell , c. n. , 1980 , apj , 237 , 692    mccarthy , i. g. , frenk , c. s. , font , a. s. , lacey , c. g. , bower , r. g. , mitchell , n. l. , balogh , m. l. , theuns , t. , 2008 , mnras , 383 , 593    mamon , g. a. , 1992 , apj , 401 , l3    mastropietro , c. , burkert , a. , moore , b. , 2009 , mnras , 399 , 2004    matsumoto , h. , tsuru , t. g. , fukazawa , y. , hattori , m. , davis , d. s. , 2000 , pasj , 52 , 153    merluzzi , p. , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 429 , 1747    moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , oemler , a. , 1996 , nat , 379 , 613    mori , m. , burkert , a. , 2000 , apj , 538 , 559    moss , c. , whittle , m. , 2000 , mnras , 317 , 667    navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , white , s. d. m. , 1996 , apj , 462 , 563 ( nfw )    neto , a. f. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , 1450    ponman , t. j. , bourner , p. d. j. , ebeling , h. , bhringer , h. , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 690    pracy , m. b. , kuntschner , h. , couch , w. j. , blake , c. , bekki , k. , briggs , f. , 2009 , mnras , 396 , 1349    pracy , m. b. , owers , m. s. , couch , w. j. , kuntschner , h. , bekki , k. , briggs , f. , lah , p. , zwaan , m. , 2012 , mnras , 420 , 2232    quilis , v. , moore , b. , bower , r. , 2000 , sci , 288 , 1617    rasmussen , j. , ponman , t. j. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1554    roediger , e. , hensler , g. , 2005 , a&a , 433 , 875    roediger , e. , brggen , m. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1399    rosen , a. , bregman , j. n. , 1995 , apj , 440 , 634    schulz , s. , struck , c. , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 185    shioya , y. , bekki , k. , couch , w. j. , de propris , r. , 2002 , apj , 565 , 223    sutherland , r. s. , dopita , m. a. , 1993 , apjs , 88 , 253    thornton , k. , gaudlitz , m. , janka , h .- th . , steinmetz , m. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 95    tonnesen , s. , bryan , g. l. , 2012 , mnras , 422 , 1609    vollmer , b. , cayatte , v. , balkowski , c. , duschl , w. j. , 2001 , apj , 561 , 708    wetzel , a. r. , tinker , j. l. , conroy , c. , van den bosch , f. c. , 2013 , mnras , 432 , 336",
    "the present numerical results on the effects of ram pressure of icm on the sfhs of disk galaxies could depend on the number of particles used for representing disk galaxies and icm .",
    "also , the sharp boundary of a icm box could influence the details of hydrodynamical interaction between icm and cold ism in disk galaxies .",
    "therefore , we here investigate how the present results depend on ( i ) the number of particles in a disk galaxy ( @xmath84 ) , the number of icm particles in a icm box ( @xmath85 ) , and the icm box size ( @xmath86 ) by using models with different @xmath84 , @xmath85 , and @xmath86 .",
    "the models in which disks are under the strong influences of ram pressure are simply referred to as ram pressure models below .",
    "the vi - i1-mw - in model ( ` inclined ' mw - type disk ) is used for investigating the dependences of the present results on sf enhancement by ram pressure in disk galaxies on @xmath84 , because this model clearly shows sf enhancement after pericenter passage .",
    "the vi - i1-mw - fa model ( ` face - on ' mw - type disk ) is used for investigating how @xmath85 and @xmath86 change the hydrodynamical interaction processes between icm and ism and thus the sfrs , because the entire gas disk can be almost equally influenced by ram pressure force for this face - on model .",
    "the results for the models with different @xmath84 and with different @xmath85 and @xmath86 are shown in figs .",
    "14 and 15 , respectively .",
    "a1 clearly shows that sf can be moderately enhanced by ram pressure in the ram pressure models for different @xmath84 .",
    "furthermore , the time evolution of sfrs is quantitatively similar between the four different ram pressure models , though the model with @xmath87 shows a more strongly enhanced sf after pericenter passage .",
    "these results mean that as long as @xmath84 is larger than @xmath88 , the present results on sfhs of disk galaxies in ram pressure models do not depend on @xmath84 .",
    "a2 shows that the time evolution of sfrs after pericenter passage is very similar between the models , except the low - resolution one with @xmath89 .",
    "more massive individual icm particles in this low - resolution model ( @xmath89 ) appear to compress more strongly the cold ism of the disk and consequently enhance more significantly the sf .",
    "these results mean that the dependences of the present results on @xmath85 and @xmath86 are rather weak , as long as @xmath90 and @xmath91 .",
    "thus we consider that the present results for the models with @xmath92 , @xmath93 , and @xmath94 can be regarded as robust ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate how ram pressure of intragroup and intracluster medium can influence the spatial and temporal variations of star formation ( sf ) of disk galaxies with halo masses ( @xmath0 ) ranging from @xmath1 to @xmath2 ( i.e. , from dwarf irregular to milky way - type ) in groups and clusters with @xmath3 by using numerical simulations with a new model for time - varying ram pressure . </S>",
    "<S> the long - term evolution of sf rates and h@xmath4 morphologies corresponding to the distributions of star - forming regions are particularly investigated for different model parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the principal results are as follows . </S>",
    "<S> whether ram pressure can enhance or reduce sf depends on @xmath0 of disk galaxies and inclination angles of gas disks with respect to their orbital directions for a given orbit and a given environment . </S>",
    "<S> for example , sf can be moderately enhanced in disk galaxies with @xmath5 at the pericenter passages in a cluster with @xmath6 whereas it can be completely shut down ( ` quenching ' ) for low - mass disks with @xmath7 . </S>",
    "<S> ram pressure can reduce the h@xmath4-to - optical - disk - size ratios of disks and the revel of the reduction depends on @xmath0 and orbits of disk galaxies for a given environment . </S>",
    "<S> disk galaxies under strong ram pressure show characteristic h@xmath4 morphologies such as ring - like , one - sided , and crescent - like distributions .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : clusters : general  galaxies : ism  galaxies : evolution  stars : formation </S>"
  ]
}