{
  "article_text": [
    "outflows are an important phenomenon in agn and can play a key role in the co - evolution of the massive black hole and the host galaxy .",
    "black holes grow by accretion and strong nuclear outflows can quench this process by effectively shutting off the supply of matter . thus outflows can provide feedback between the growth of the galactic bulge and the black hole @xcite .",
    "recently a number of high column density ( @xmath4@xmath5 ) , fast ( @xmath6 ) outflows have been found in luminous agn , through observations of blue - shifted absorption from fe k , at rest - frame energies greater than 7 kev ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these fast outflows may be driven off the accretion disk by either radiation pressure @xcite or by magneto - rotational forces @xcite , or both , a few gravitational radii ( @xmath7 ) from the black hole . under the assumption of quasi - spherical outflow , then the outflow rates derived can be huge , of the order of several solar masses per year @xcite equivalent to @xmath8ergs@xmath1 in kinetic power .",
    "such outflows are a likely consequence of near - eddington accretion @xcite .",
    "pds 456 is a luminous , low redshift ( @xmath9 ) radio - quiet quasar identified in 1997 @xcite .",
    "the optical and infra - red spectra @xcite show broad balmer and paschen lines ( e.g. h@xmath10 @xmath11 km  s@xmath1 fwhm ) , strong fe ii , a hard ( de - reddened ) optical continuum ( @xmath12 ) and one of the strongest ` big blue bumps ' of any agn @xcite .",
    "it has a de - reddened , absolute magnitude of m@xmath13 , making it at least as luminous as the radio - loud quasar 3c273 , with a bolometric luminosity of @xmath14ergs@xmath1 @xcite , making pds456 one of the most luminous known quasars in the local universe .",
    "a 2001 40ks xmm - newton observation of pds  456 revealed the presence of strong iron k - shell absorption above 7 kev , which could be attributed to a high velocity outflow @xcite , requiring a large column density of highly ionized matter .",
    "furthermore a strong broad absorption line at 1 kev was observed in the rgs ( also see * ? ? ?",
    "suzaku_observation in 2007 revealed the presence of two highly significant absorption lines observed at 7.68 and 8.15kev ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter r09 ) , corresponding to 9.08 and 9.66 kev in the quasar rest frame , where no strong atomic transitions are expected .",
    "furthermore the observed energy of the absorption does not coincide with the expected position of the fe  xxv or fe  xxvi resonant ( @xmath15 ) absorption lines at @xmath16 ( at 6.7 or 6.97 kev ) and therefore can not be associated with local hot gas , such as the whim @xcite .",
    "thus a plausible identification of the fe k absorption lines is with the strong resonance ( @xmath15 ) transitions of highly ionized iron , either fexxv or fexxvi , but blue - shifted , with an implied outflow velocity of @xmath3c .",
    "a column density of @xmath17@xmath5 was also required to model the high equivalent width ( @xmath18ev ) of the lines ( r09 ) .",
    "even a conservative 10% global covering for the ionized outflow implied a mass outflow rate of @xmath19  yr@xmath1 , similar to the expected mass accretion rate of pds 456 @xcite .",
    "pds 456 also exhibits blue - shifted absorption in the uv @xcite , as seen in the form of a broad absorption trough blue - wards ( by @xmath20kms@xmath1 ) of the lyman-@xmath21 emission as well as blue - shifted civ emission ( by @xmath22kms@xmath1 ) .",
    "pds456 also has a record of showing long - term spectral variability over the last decade of observations ( r09 , @xcite ) . indeed in an analysis of all the archived observations of pds 456 , @xcite showed the complex variability was likely due to both absorption changes and variations in the intrinsic continuum level , while a relatively invariant ionized reflection component may also be superimposed on the spectra . in some of the observations",
    ", the quasar appeared to be highly absorbed , such as in the 2001 _ xmm - newton _  observations @xcite , while in the 2007 _ xmm - newton _  observations the quasar appeared to be relatively continuum dominated with little intrinsic x - ray absorption @xcite .",
    "the overall picture of spectral variability is likely complex , with intrinsic quasar x - ray variability occurring along with the changes in a possible partial covering absorber .    here",
    "we present a comparison between a 2007 and a most recent 2011 _ suzaku _  observation of pds456 .",
    "the original 2007 _ suzaku _  observation revealed a steep unabsorbed continuum with photon index @xmath2 , as well as the presence of highly blue - shifted absorption lines at 9kev in the quasar rest frame .",
    "in contrast the 2011 observation caught the quasar at a substantially lower flux and with a subsequently harder x - ray spectrum . in this paper",
    "we present the comparison between the 2007 observation and the 2011 low  flux spectrum and subsequently show that the high velocity outflow is persistent in both the 2007 and 2011 datasets at self - consistent velocities . furthermore in the 2011 observation , the x - ray spectrum is more likely dominated by reprocessed radiation , possibly from an accretion disk wind .",
    "values of h@xmath23=70kms@xmath1mpc@xmath1 , and @xmath24 are assumed throughout and errors are quoted at 90% confidence ( @xmath25 ) , for 1 parameter of interest .",
    "pds 456 was first observed by _ suzaku _  @xcite between 24 feb to 1 mar 2007 over a total duration of 370ks and with a net ( xis ) exposure of 190ks after screening .",
    "pds456 was subsequently re - observed by _ suzaku _  between 1619 march 2011 for a duration of @xmath26ks , with a corresponding next ( xis ) exposure of 125.6ks .",
    "both observations were taken with pds456 at the aim - point of the xis ccd cameras , otherwise known as the xis nominal mode .",
    "a summary of observations is shown in table1 .",
    "data were analyzed from the x - ray imaging spectrometer xis @xcite and the pin diodes of the hard x - ray detector hxd / pin @xcite and processed usingv2 of the _ suzaku _  pipeline .",
    "data were excluded within 436 seconds of passage through the south atlantic anomaly ( saa ) and within earth elevation angles or bright earth angles of @xmath27 and @xmath28 respectively .",
    "xis data for both observations were selected in @xmath29 and @xmath30 editmodes using grades 0,2,3,4,6 , while hot and flickering pixels were removed using the sisclean script .",
    "spectra were ( re)-extracted from within circular regions of 1.5  radius , while the background was taken from an annulus of @xmath31  radius centered on the agn , but which was free of any background sources .",
    "we also checked an alternate background subtraction method , whereby background spectra were extracted from 4 circles offset from the source and avoiding the chip corners containing the calibration sources .",
    "both methods gave identical results , however we adopted the annulus method as that provided a greater background area and a more even sampling of the background across the ccds .",
    "the subsequent background spectra were scaled down by a factor of @xmath32 to match the size of the extraction region for the agn .",
    "the response matrices ( rmf ) and ancillary response ( arfs ) files were created using the tasks xisrmfgen and xissimarfgen , respectively , the former accounting for the ccd charge injection and the latter for the hydrocarbon contamination on the optical blocking filter .",
    "spectra from the two front illuminated xis0 and xis3 chips in both observations were combined to create a single source spectrum ( hereafter xis  fi ) for each observation , while data from the back illuminated xis1 chip were analyzed separately .",
    "data were included from 0.610kev for the xis  fi and 0.67kev for the xis1 chip .",
    "as the latter is mainly optimized for the soft x - ray band and has higher background yet small effective area in the iron k band , we concentrate our analysis here on the xis ",
    "fi spectra .",
    "however we note that the xis0 , xis1 and xis3 spectra are consistent with each other , for each observation ( e.g. see r09 for a comparison for the 2007 observation ) .",
    "the net background subtracted source count rates per xis ",
    "fi ccd were @xmath33ctss@xmath1 ( 2007 ) and @xmath34ctss@xmath1 ( 2011 ) , while the xis background rates correspond to only 2.4% and 3.7% of the net source counts for the 2007 and 2011 observations respectively .",
    "the net exposure per xis ",
    "fi ccd for each observation were 190.6ks and 125.6ks respectively .",
    "the xis spectra and response files were subsequently binned to a minimum energy width corresponding to approximately the hwhm xis resolution of 60ev at 6kev , dropping to @xmath35 30ev at lower energies .",
    "channels were additionally grouped to a minimum of 40 counts per energy bin and @xmath36 minimization was used for all subsequent spectral fitting .",
    "the extraction of spectra from the non - imaging hxd / pin instrument @xcite is described in detail in r09 for the 2007 _ suzaku _  observation of pds 456 .",
    "the same method here is applied to the 2011 observation .",
    "spectra were re - extracted for both observations over the 15 - 50kev range , while the background spectra were extracted from background model d ( as described previously in r09 ) , together with the predicted cosmic x - ray background ( cxb ) component , using the cxb spectrum and intensity as measured by @xcite .",
    "the net exposures obtained for hxd / pin are summarized in table1 .",
    "the net source rates obtained for pds456 were low , of @xmath37countss@xmath1 and @xmath38countss@xmath1 for 2007 and 2011 respectively .",
    "these net count rates represent 3.3% and @xmath39% of the total background count rate , while the systematic uncertainty of the background  d model is believed to be typically @xmath40% at the @xmath41 level for a net 20ks exposure @xcite .",
    "thus pds 456 is not detected by hxd / pin in the subsequent low flux 2011 observation and is marginally detected during the 2007 observation , as discussed in detail by r09 .",
    "in the subsequent spectral analysis of pds456 presented in section 3 and 4 we concentrate mainly on the properties of the xis spectra below 10kev , however we do perform consistency checks of the different spectral models by comparing the predicted model fluxes in the hard x - ray @xmath42kev band with the measurement or upper - limit deduced during the 2007 and 2011 hxd datasets .",
    "figure 1 shows the overall broad - band fluxed spectra from 0.6 - 50kev of both observations .",
    "note the spectra have been unfolded through the instrumental response against a simple @xmath43 power - law model and are not corrected for galactic absorption .",
    "below 10kev the 2011 observation is clearly harder and shows continuum curvature down towards the lowest energies , which as discussed below may be the signature of substantial absorption .",
    "in contrast the 2007 spectrum is largely power - law like below 10 kev and appears softer compared to a photon index of @xmath43 in figure 1 .    above 10 kev",
    ", the 2007 observation shows a clear hard excess in the hxd data , as was originally presented in r09 , while the 2011 observation shows no such excess . however including the systematic uncertainty in the hxd background level , then the relative 15 - 50kev fluxes ( computed from a @xmath43 power - law in the hxd band ) are @xmath44erg@xmath5s@xmath1 ( 2007 ) vs. @xmath45erg@xmath5s@xmath1 ( 2011 ) , which are formally not consistent with being constant at the 90% level .",
    "however given the possible uncertainties in modeling the non x - ray background level of the hxd , we do not consider the hard x - ray variability further in this paper .",
    "more sensitive imaging hard x - ray observations above 10kev , such as with nustar , are required to probe this variability further .",
    "nonetheless we also note that such hard excesses above 10 kev are proving to be relatively common , occurring in a high fraction of even type i agn @xcite .    for the remainder of the spectral analysis we concentrate on the xis",
    " fi data below 10kev , which has a very low background level . to simply parameterise the spectral differences below 10kev , we started by fitting both observations simultaneously with a broken power - law model .",
    "galactic absorption of @xmath46@xmath5 @xcite was adopted , modeled with the `` tuebingen  boulder '' absorption model ( tbabs in xspec ) using the cross  sections and abundances of @xcite .",
    "the 2007 spectrum is very steep , with soft and hard band photon indices of @xmath47 and @xmath48 with a break energy of @xmath49kev .",
    "in contrast in 2011 , the soft and hard band photon indices are @xmath50 and @xmath51 , with the break energy tied to the above value .",
    "the relative soft and hard band fluxes derived from this model are also quoted in table 1 .",
    "nonetheless the fit to the data with such a simple model is very poor , with @xmath52 .",
    "the model also does not fit the pronounced spectral curvature present in 2011 , as seen in figure 1 .",
    "indeed figure 2 shows the comparison between the 2 datasets , plotted as a ratio to the absorbed broken power - law with the spectral parameters equal to the 2007 dataset .",
    "in addition to the harder shape of the 2011 observation , a pronounced spectral drop is observed above 8kev in the quasar rest frame , in the iron k band .",
    "furthermore possible excess emission is also observed around 0.9 - 1.0 kev , close to the expected energies for neix or l - shell fe , as detected previously in this agn ( r09 ) .",
    "initially we fitted both observations with a simple power - law continuum model over the 210kev band , modified by galactic absorption and allowed the relative photon indices and continuum normalizations to vary for each dataset .",
    "figure 3 shows the data / model ratio residuals at iron k for both observations , plotted in the quasar rest  frame .",
    "indeed the absorption appears to be present in both observations at a self consistent energy between the observations , ruling out the possibility that the iron k band absorption is due to statistical noise .",
    "similar to what was reported by r09 in the analysis of the 2007 dataset , the absorption could consist of two profiles , centered at 9.0 and 9.5 kev respectively in the quasar rest - frame , or alternatively a single broad profile.one apparent difference is that the absorption profile in the 2011 observation appears to extend to lower energies between 89 kev .    to quantify its properties , we parameterized the iron k band absorption with simple gaussian profiles , fitting two gaussians lines to the apparent absorption lines at 9 and 9.5 kev .",
    "in addition it was also found that an additional broad absorption trough was required at a rest frame energy above 10 kev , which may for instance represent an unresolved blend of high order transitions or bound - free edges of iron .",
    "the properties of the absorption lines are summarized in table2 . adding the absorption profiles considerably improved the fit statistic compared to the baseline power - law model , which decreased from @xmath53 ( formally rejected with a null probability of @xmath54 ) , to an acceptable @xmath55 upon the addition of the absorption lines .",
    "thus the detection of the fe k band absorption from a statistical sense appears robust , appearing in the same band in both independent datasets .",
    "in addition r09 also showed that the detection of the absorption in the 2007 observations was significant at @xmath56 from monte carlo simulations , while in a systematic analysis of a sample of iron k band absorbers in agn , @xcite also found that the iron k absorption profiles in both the 2007 and 2011 observations of pds456 are significant at @xmath57% confidence according to monte carlo simulations .",
    "the main change in the absorption profile between the two observations is that the 9 kev absorption line appears centered towards lower energies in 2011 , at @xmath58kev vs. @xmath59kev in 2007 , as indicated by figure 3 .",
    "furthermore the line profile appears to be resolved in 2011 ( as can be seen by the extended absorption profile below @xmath60kev ) , with a line width of @xmath61kev , while in 2007 the profile of the 9kev trough is barely resolved compared with the instrumental resolution ( @xmath62kev ) .",
    "the equivalent width of the 9 kev absorption profile is also stronger in 2011 compared to 2007 .",
    "in contrast the 9.5 kev absorption is consistent across both observations , while the higher energy trough above 10kev also appears to be required in both observations ( see table 2 for details ) .",
    "thus overall the fe k - band absorption appears somewhat stronger in the lower flux 2011 observation , while the absorption profile is more extended down towards lower energies .",
    "we investigate below a possible cause of the absorption profile variations , from fitting xstar photoionization models .",
    "firstly we reconsider the possible identification of the absorption lines at 9 and 9.5kev . as also discussed by r09 ,",
    "if the lines are identified with the @xmath15 transition of fexxvi , then this implies a blue - shift of @xmath63 , or higher still if the lines are less ionized ( he - like or lower ) .",
    "however there are few other likely strong transitions in the 9 - 9.5kev band that could otherwise account for the absorption , without a strong velocity shift . indeed",
    "the closest transition from iron is the higher order @xmath64 line of fexxvi at 8.91kev , which leads to a series of higher order ( @xmath65 , where @xmath66 ) lines up until the the fexxvi edge at 9.277 kev .",
    "however the higher order lines will usually be substantially weaker than the transitions up to lower energy levels , unless the lines are on the saturated part of the curve of growth , which can occur at low turbulence velocities .",
    "thus at zero ( or low ) velocity shift , the stronger @xmath15 ( 6.97kev ) and @xmath67 ( 8.25kev ) lines of fexxvi should be apparent in figure 3 , which is not the case .",
    "we demonstrate this below when we fit the absorption with a self - consistent grid of photoionized absorber models .    alternatively there could be some weaker contribution from other higher z elements , namely co , ni and zn , but these are all substantially under - abundant astrophysically compared to fe , e.g. zn and co are @xmath68 less abundant than fe @xcite and would be undetectable with the current instruments .",
    "ni is somewhat more abundant ( but still typically @xmath69 lower than fe ) , however only higher order h or he - like lines of ni are expected in the 9 - 9.5kev band .",
    "furthermore in a recent study of iron k absorption with suzaku , @xcite found that the effect of ni was negligible on the fe k band spectra computed by xstar . thus considering all these possible alternate identifications for the absorption , the @xmath15 resonance absorption lines from iron seem the most plausible identification .",
    "the absorption profiles were fitted with a grid of photoionization models generated by the xstar code v2.2 @xcite .",
    "the absorption grid was generated with a turbulence velocity of @xmath70kms@xmath1 , a power - law continuum of photon index @xmath71 and was calculated from @xmath72kev with 10000 energy bins .",
    "the abundances used are from the solar values of @xcite .",
    "the absorption grid provides an excellent fit to the fe k absorption in both observations of pds456 with column density @xmath73@xmath5 and an overall fit statistic over the 210kev band of @xmath74 ; see table3 for absorber parameters .",
    "two outflowing zones are required , with outflow velocities of @xmath75 and @xmath76 respectively , which can account for the two absorption troughs at 9.0kev and 9.5kev respectively .",
    "note that the column density and outflow velocities were tied to the same values between the two observations , if they are allowed to vary then the values are formally consistent at the 90% level .",
    "however there is some evidence for variability of the ionization parameter between the two observations ; in the lower flux 2011 observation the absorber is less ionized ( @xmath77 ) vs. the 2007 observation ( @xmath78 ) .",
    "if instead the ionization parameter is held fixed between the observations , then the fit statistic is subsequently worse , by @xmath79 for 1 degree of freedom .",
    "thus it may be the case that the lower ionisation species of iron ( he - like and lower ) contribute towards the lower energy profile of the absorption in 2011 .",
    "this is shown in figure 4 ( panel a ) , where the fit with a high turbulence grid ( @xmath70kms@xmath1 ) and large velocity shift is shown and the extended lower - energy absorption trough can be seen towards the 2011 observation .",
    "next , the case where the absorption could be modeled with zero ( or small ) velocity shift was investigated . in this scenario",
    "an absorption grid with low turbulence velocity @xmath80kms@xmath1 was used . in principle",
    "this means that for high column densities some of the usually weaker higher order transitions are of similar strength to the lower order ones , as the absorption lines lie on the saturated part of the curve of growth ( i.e. the opposite of the high turbulence model ) .",
    "the velocity shift of the absorber was assumed to be zero .",
    "this resulted in a substantially worse fit when applied to both the 2007 and 2011 spectra , with a fit statistic of @xmath81 ( vs. @xmath82 for the high velocity case ) , which is rejected with a null probability of @xmath83 .",
    "the resulting fit and data / model residuals are shown in panels ( b ) and ( c ) of figure 4 .",
    "the column density obtained is very high , indeed only a lower limit can be obtained of @xmath84@xmath5 , implying any such gas would be compton - thick to electron scattering . similar to the high velocity case above , the ionization parameter appears to decrease from @xmath85 in 2007 to @xmath86 in 2011 .",
    "it is clear that the zero outflow velocity absorption profile is a poor fit to the data in both the 2007 and 2011 spectra .",
    "in particular the zero velocity model predicts strong @xmath15 absorption lines from he and h - like iron at 6.70 and 6.97 kev respectively ( or 5.65.9kev observed frame ) which are not present in either dataset .",
    "this produces an apparent excess in the data / model ratio residuals in panel ( c ) of figure 4 , where the data - points are subsequently under  predicted by the model at those energies . furthermore the absorption profile at higher energies is also inadequately modeled by the blend of narrow , high order transitions of iron , as is apparent in the residuals .    thus both datasets require absorption from highly ionized species of iron at high outflow velocities , at high statistical confidence .",
    "however there does appear to be subtle changes in the absorption profile between 2007 and 2011 , which may be accounted for by a decrease in ionization in the lower flux 2011 observation .",
    "having established the robustness of the high velocity outflow in pds456 , we next discuss models to account for the broad - band spectral variability between the 2007 and 2011 observations .",
    "in particular we consider three scenarios below:- ( i ) a simple variable intrinsic continuum , ( ii ) models involving variable partial covering absorption ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or ( iii ) models involving compton reflection @xcite .",
    "the spectra are also discussed in terms of some of the latest radiatively driven disk ",
    "wind models , i.e. using the 2d radiative transfer model of @xcite . to model the spectral variability between the two datasets ,",
    "we retain the high ionization , high velocity absorber as described in the previous section ( with parameters , @xmath87 , @xmath88 and @xmath89 allowed to vary ) .",
    "the continuum itself is modeled by a power - law of variable normalization and @xmath90 however the photon index is assumed not to vary between the observations , except in the variable continuum scenario discussed below .",
    "a gaussian emission line is also required at 0.9kev , as noted previously ( r09 ) and is included at constant intensity between observations in all the fits below .",
    "the xis data are modeled over the energy range from 0.610 kev .",
    "before we consider more complex models for the spectral variability involving absorption or reflection , we tested a simple model whereby the primary photon index of the continuum ( along with its normalization ) varies .",
    "such a scenario may be related to changes in the comptonising electron population responsible for the hard x - ray power - law ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "no other additive ( emission ) or multiplicative ( absorption ) components were included , other than the 0.9 kev emission line , the high ionization iron k absorber and galactic absorption . in this scenario",
    "the intrinsic continuum does appear harder in the 2011 observation , varying from @xmath91 ( 2007 ) to @xmath92 ( 2011 ) , while the continuum flux varies as per table 1 .",
    "however such a simplistic change results in a statistically poor fit , with @xmath93 , which is rejected at a very high confidence level of @xmath94 .",
    "thus in order to successfully account for the variability between 2007 and 2011 , we investigated models involving gas that reprocess x - rays , either from matter that partially obscures and absorbs the agn emission or via models that scatter and reflect x - rays off compton thick matter ( see section 4.3 ) .",
    "partial covering models have been successfully invoked many times to explain complex spectral behaviour in agn , e.g. see @xcite for a review of the phenomenon .",
    "for instance to account for pronounced continuum curvature below 10kev or absorption in the iron k band ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , spectral variability and x - ray occultation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) or pronounced hard excesses above 10kev ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "partial covering scenarios usually require compact clouds of gas or inhomogeneous structure within the x - ray absorber , whose size - scales are similar to the typical extent of the x - ray emission region",
    ". such x - ray absorbing gas may exist in the form of blr clouds which may cause at least partial occultation of the x - ray source ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or could represent density fluctuations as part of an outflowing wind ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus a partial covering model was applied to the 2007 and 2011 observations .",
    "two layers of partially covering gas are fitted to the spectra , where the model can be expressed phenomenologically as:-    @xmath95    where tbabs represents the ism absorption due to our galaxy , @xmath96 is the highly ionized outflowing absorber responsible for the iron k - shell absorption lines and po is the power - law continuum emission . the components @xmath97 and @xmath98 represent the partial covering absorbing layers which have line of sight covering fractions of @xmath99 and @xmath100 respectively .",
    "the two partial covering zones are required as a higher column , mildly ionized zone ( denoted as @xmath97 above ) is needed to fit the spectral curvature above 2kev , as well as a lower column neutral partial coverer ( denoted as @xmath98 ) , in order to model the absorption present in the soft x - ray band which is most pronounced in 2011 . in this scenario , it is assumed that the column density remains invariant between observations , while the covering fractions , @xmath99 and @xmath100 are allowed to vary between observations .",
    "the column density of the higher column @xmath101 zone is found to be @xmath102@xmath5 , while the lower column @xmath103 gas has @xmath104@xmath5 ; see table4 for full parameter details .",
    "the differences between the two spectra can then be simply explained by an increase in the covering fraction of the partial covering absorbers from 2007 to 2011 ; for the high column zone , @xmath105 in 2007 increases to @xmath106 in 2011 , while for the lower column zone , @xmath107 increases to @xmath108 .",
    "interestingly some net blueshift is required for the high column zone , with @xmath109c ( table 4 ) , which may suggest it is connected to the outflowing gas .",
    "we also note that formally this is also consistent with an absorber at @xmath16 .",
    "however it would seem less likely that absorption associated with our own galaxy or local group could partially cover the line of sight to a distant quasar , while the measured column density is also @xmath110 higher than the galactic hi value .",
    "overall the variable partial covering model provides an excellent fit to the two observations ( see figure 5 ) , with @xmath111 .",
    "note that if the @xmath87 is also allowed to vary , then it is consistent between observations .",
    "we also note that correcting for the absorption , the x - ray luminosity of pds456 differs by very little between the observations , with @xmath112ergs@xmath1 , which favors the changes in both spectral shape and continuum flux being caused by absorber variability in this scenario .",
    "one open question is whether partial covering is really required to explain the pds456 spectra ?",
    "one possibility is that the low column , neutral partial covering zone ( @xmath98 ) instead could be described by a partially ionized ( or warm ) absorber , similar to those frequently observed in lower luminosity seyfert 1 galaxies @xcite , which fully covers the x - ray source . in this case",
    "the model can be expressed as:-",
    "@xmath113    where @xmath114 in equation 2 then corresponds to the fully covering warm absorber zone , of modest ionization , which absorbs the soft x - ray spectrum below 2kev .",
    "this description provides an excellent representation of the spectra ( with @xmath115 ) .",
    "the warm absorber has a column of @xmath116@xmath5 and ionization parameter of @xmath117 during the 2011 observation , while no outflow velocity is required for this absorber .",
    "however no such absorption is required during the softer , less absorbed 2007 observation , where the column density of the absorber is constrained to be substantially lower , with @xmath118@xmath5 .",
    "nonetheless the higher column ( @xmath97 ) partial coverer is still required to model the spectra , while its ionization is constrained to be low ( @xmath119 ) , with covering fractions as per table  4 .",
    "if this component is removed from the model and the model refitted , then the fit - statistic is significantly worse with @xmath120 , which is rejected with a null hypothesis probability of @xmath121 .",
    "thus a variable high column partial coverer would appear to be required to account for the spectral variability in pds 456 .",
    "however one possibility is that instead of the agn being partial covered by absorbing gas , a significant fraction of the emission is scattered back into our line of sight from compton - thick material .",
    "alternatively we investigate whether models involving x - ray reflection can account for the spectral changes , with the low flux and harder spectrum in 2011 having a higher fraction of reflected emission , as has been observed for instance through deconstruction of the time - variable spectra of seyfert galaxies through principal component analysis ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we note the lack of a narrow 6.4kev iron k@xmath21 line rules out a distant ( e.g. pc scale ) neutral ( or low ionization ) reflector , indeed the upper - limits on the equivalent widths of a narrow 6.4kev line are small ; @xmath122ev and @xmath123ev respectively for 2007 and 2011 .",
    "thus the reflected spectrum is either required to be highly ionized , or velocity broadened as expected if it originates from the regions close to the black hole .",
    "thus we replace the partial covering ( pc1 ) component of absorption with a table of x - ray reflection spectra , using the ionized reflection models recently computed at high resolution by @xcite , otherwise known as xillver .",
    "we consider the scenario whereby the reflector is highly ionized , which then results in a large degree of compton broadening of the iron line .",
    "this then removes the requirement for additional velocity broadening of the reflection spectrum .",
    "however in order to not to over - predict the emitted soft x - ray flux , the reflection component itself is required to be absorbed by a layer of photoionized gas .",
    "such a scenario may , to first order , replicate the reflected and absorbed emission off a disk wind ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a possibility that we discuss further in section 4.4 .",
    "thus the model can be expressed as:-",
    "@xmath124    where the components are as per equation 2 , except the reflect component represents the reflected emission , which is itself absorbed by a column of photoionized of gas ( @xmath125 ) , with a best fit column of @xmath126@xmath5 and ionization parameter @xmath127 .",
    "this also provides an acceptable representation of the 2007 and 2011 spectra of pds456 ( with @xmath128 ) .",
    "the overall model form and relative contributions of the power - law and absorbed reflection components is very similar phenomenologically to the partial covering model described in section 4.2 .",
    "the ionization parameter of the reflector is high , @xmath129 , with the dominant emission occurring from h - like iron .",
    "interesting , there appears to be a requirement for the reflecting material to be somewhat blue - shifted ( or outflowing ) , which although is poorly determined , is constrained to be at least @xmath130c .",
    "this may also suggest that the reflecting material could be associated with an outflowing wind and we note that such an outflowing reflected component also appeared to be required in an analysis of the 2007 _ xmm - newton _  datasets of pds456 by @xcite .",
    "for the case where the bulk velocity of the reflector is forced to be zero , then the fit statistic is significantly worse by @xmath131 .",
    "we also note that the strength of the reflected emission is relatively higher in the low flux 2011 observation compared to the 2007 observation . comparing the ratio ( @xmath132 ) of the flux of the reflected component to that of the intrinsic power - law continuum in the 2 - 10kev band",
    "gives a ratio of @xmath133 during 2011 , while in 2007 the ratio is lower with @xmath134 .",
    "thus , perhaps as might be expected , the lower flux 2011 spectrum has a relatively higher fraction of reflected flux , relative to its overall lower intrinsic continuum level .      in the above sections we showed that relatively ad - hoc absorption and reflection models can account for the x - ray spectral variability of pds 456 .",
    "now we consider whether the data can be fitted self consistently via both absorption through and from reflection off , the surface of an accretion disk wind .",
    "we adopt a table of synthetic spectra computed for parameterized models of smooth , steady - state 2d bi - conical wind models using the radiative transfer code described by @xcite .",
    "the class of wind model used is described in detail by @xcite and was also recently applied to the suzaku spectra of 6 bare seyfert 1 galaxies by @xcite .",
    "the computed spectra self consistently contain a combination of the radiation transmitted through the wind and reflected or scattered emission from the wind ( including the iron k@xmath21 emission ) .    as discussed in detail by both @xcite and @xcite ,",
    "the resulting spectra are strongly dependent on the observer s orientation , which is specified by @xmath135 .",
    "here , @xmath136 is the angle between the observer s line - of - sight and the polar @xmath137 axis of the wind , with the disk lying in the @xmath138 plane , e.g. see figure 6 for a schematic of the inner wind geometry .    at low values of @xmath136 ( i.e. looking down at the disk plane ;",
    "large values of @xmath139 ) the resulting spectra have little absorption because radiation from the primary x - ray source , which is assumed assumed to be centrally concentrated , can reach the observer directly without passing through the bi - conical wind structure .",
    "however , the spectra do contain a contribution from reflection off the wind surface which can produce a broadened iron k line profile . at higher values of @xmath136 ( smaller values of @xmath139 ) ,",
    "the observer sight line passes through the outflow and strong iron k absorption features can be imprinted on the spectrum .",
    "thus as @xmath139 is reduced , the primary continuum emission becomes increasingly suppressed by absorption and scattering processes .",
    "here we adopt a grid of wind model spectra , computed for a range of wind parameters similar to those described in @xcite .",
    "the grid explores several variable parameters as described below .",
    "primary wind and x - ray source parameters used for our grid of wind models are given in table  [ tab : syn ] ( all model other model parameters are exactly as described in @xcite .",
    "it is important to note that , for reasons of computational cost , our grid does not represent a systematic exploration of all of the possible parameter space of the wind model ; it only varies a sub - set of key model parameters that act as convenient means by which to vary the typical densities , velocities and ionization conditions in the flow .",
    "this grid is therefore useful as a starting point to investigate whether spectral features can be readily explained by a disk wind .",
    "the grid explores a range of values for both the photon index ( @xmath90 ) and luminosity ( @xmath140 ) of the illuminating power - law .",
    "the luminosity is calculated in the 2 - 10kev band and is normalized as a fraction of the eddington luminosity and thus scales independently of black hole mass .",
    "models were computed with @xmath140 in the range @xmath141% of the eddington luminosity . when fitting the models , the value of @xmath90 was tied to that of the measured photon index of the spectrum , which was allowed to vary .",
    "spectra were calculated for two different values of the mass outflow rate of the wind ( @xmath142 ) .",
    "normalized to the eddington accretion rate ( @xmath143 ) , the values chosen were @xmath144 and 0.8 , i.e. where @xmath145 respectively , see table5 .",
    "values of the mass outflow rate near to eddington values may be expected for pds456 , which likely accretes at around the eddington limit , as discussed in r09 .",
    "the terminal outflow velocities ( @xmath146 ) realised in the wind models are determined by the choice of the inner wind radius ( @xmath147 ) and the terminal velocity parameter @xmath148 which is related the terminal velocity on a wind streamline to the escape velocity at its base , via @xmath149 ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for details ) .",
    "in order for the radial outflow velocities of the wind to reach high values appropriate for pds456 , the spectral models were calculated using a fixed inner radius of the flow launching region of @xmath150 , the same as the smallest value for the inner radius considered in the @xcite grid of models . a relatively low value of the outer radius for the wind launching region of @xmath151 was also adopted and thus @xmath147 to @xmath152 set the range of radii from which the wind is launched .",
    "we considered models with @xmath153 ( i.e. terminal velocities of one or two times the escape speed from the base of the flow ) .",
    "the opening angles are controlled by the geometrical parameter @xmath154 , which sets the degree of collimation of the wind : @xmath154 is defined as the distance of the focus point of the wind below the origin .",
    "the wind geometry for the innermost part of the flow , along with the definitions of the @xmath147 , @xmath152 and @xmath154 parameters , are illustrated in figure 6 .    for our model grid we considered three values for @xmath155 , expressed in units of @xmath147 . here",
    "@xmath156 corresponds to our most equatorial wind ( least collimated case ) and @xmath157 correspond to a more polar wind ( most collimated case ) .",
    "solar abundances from @xcite were used for all models .",
    "for each of our wind models , spectra were computed for 20 different values of the observer inclination parameter @xmath139 , uniformly spaced between @xmath158 and @xmath159 . in total our grid contains 2160 synthetic spectra .",
    "we first apply the above models to the 2011 suzaku spectrum of pds456 , as this is the most absorbed spectrum of the two suzaku observations , with a strong iron k absorption profile .",
    "rather than let all the parameters of the wind vary simultaneously , which could lead to degeneracies in the modeling , the effect of changing different parameters on the wind model was systematically explored . given the limited number of grid points for both parameters , values of @xmath142 and @xmath148 were fixed in each fit .",
    "however , we explored the effect of adopting the different tabulated values by changing the respective parameters in the fits and comparing the resultant @xmath160 .",
    "similarly the geometrical @xmath154 parameter was also kept fixed at either @xmath161 or 5 , as discussed below .",
    "the photon index of the illuminating power - law was allowed to vary and was assumed to be equal to the power - law index of the measured spectrum .",
    "the inclination parameter , @xmath139 , was also allowed to vary , as was the 2 - 10kev luminosity @xmath140 , expressed as a percentage of @xmath162 .",
    "parameters are measured relative to the redshift of the quasar at @xmath9 throughout .",
    "the spectrum of pds456 was modeled with a simple power - law attenuated by galactic absorption , modified by the wind spectrum which is included in xspec as a multiplicative table .",
    "the spectrum was also modified by a soft x - ray warm absorber , as discussed in section 4.2 , which may originate from gas further away than the putative accretion disk wind .",
    "alternatively a partial covering absorber also gave an equally good fit to the soft x - ray absorption .",
    "thus the overall model is of the form:-    @xmath163    initially the spectrum was modelled with an escape speed parameter of @xmath164 , with @xmath156 , while the outflow rate was fixed at the lowest value of @xmath165 ( in eddington units ) .",
    "the models were fitted over the 0.510kev range of the xis 0 and 3 combined spectrum .",
    "the resultant fit is plotted in figure7 ( upper panel ) , with the resultant best fit wind parameters and reduced @xmath36 being listed in table6 as modela .",
    "it can be seen that in this case the fit to the iron line profile is quite poor , as the model fails to reproduce the entire depth or width of the profile , especially on the blue - shifted side of the profile .",
    "this suggests that the velocity of the wind is not sufficiently high to match the observed profile .",
    "note that increasing either @xmath142 or @xmath154 ( making the outflow more polar ) makes the fit even worse , in the latter case making the velocity profile shallower .",
    "thus , to increase the velocities , the escape velocity parameter was then increased to @xmath166 in the fits , while the other parameters are kept fixed as before , i.e. @xmath165 and @xmath156 .",
    "this yields an excellent fit to the iron absorption profile ( table 6 , modelb ) and is plotted in figure7 ( lower panel ) .",
    "note that an equally good fit is also obtained if the outflow rate is increased to @xmath167 , the main difference being that the percentage 2 - 10 kev luminosity increases from @xmath168% to @xmath169% .",
    "thus , as might be expected from consideration of ionization conditions , an increase in the ionizing luminosity can be roughly compensated by an increase in the mass outflow rate .",
    "we also investigated the effect of increasing the collimation of the flow , by increasing the @xmath154 parameter to @xmath170 .",
    "this is listed as modelc in table 6 , but otherwise the parameters are the same as for modelb and the fit statistic is also similar . in this case",
    "the model fit adjusts via the inclination parameter , which increases from @xmath171 to @xmath172 .",
    "this also seems consistent with the fact that as the @xmath154 parameter increases , the outflow becomes more polar ( less equatorial ) and thus the inclination angle decreases .",
    "however we note that if the geometric factor is increased further to @xmath157 , giving the most polar outflow , then the fit is no longer acceptable ( @xmath173 with respect to model c ) , as the absorption feature becomes too shallow .",
    "thus , in general , a moderately collimated outflow ( @xmath174 ) , with terminal velocity around twice the escape speed ( @xmath166 ) for our chosen values of @xmath147 and @xmath152 appears to model well the absorption profile in pds456 .",
    "the outflow also appears to be consistent with having a mass - loss rate close to the eddington accretion rate .",
    "it is interesting to note that the value of the inclination parameter @xmath139 is generally low , giving @xmath175 ( or @xmath176 ) .",
    "if the bi - conical wind geometry is correct , this would suggest that we are viewing pds456 at a relatively side - on inclination through the thick part of the accretion disk wind .",
    "we caution that our grid does not explore different values for the parameters controlling the extent and location of the wind launching region ( @xmath147 and @xmath152 ) .",
    "thus we can not yet quantitatively comment on possible degeneracies related to the location of the wind launching region .",
    "since the wind velocities are key to obtaining good agreement , it is to be expected that some degeneracy will exist between the choice of @xmath147 and @xmath148 ( if @xmath147 is reduced then a good fit may be achievable for a smaller value of @xmath148 ) .",
    "while this can be explored by extending our grids of models in the future , we note that it is not expected that either @xmath147 is very much smaller nor @xmath148 very much bigger than considered here .      for comparison",
    ", we also applied the disk wind model described above to the 2007 suzaku observation .",
    "for simplicity , model b was adopted , with @xmath166 and @xmath156 and @xmath165 . as the spectrum is brighter and less absorbed , no additional soft x - ray absorption ( warm absorption or partial covering )",
    "was applied to the 2007 data , thus the spectrum can be described by an intrinsic power - law like continuum modified by the presence of the disk wind .",
    "the parameters of this fit are also listed in table 6 .",
    "the inclination parameter is consistent with the 2011 model , as might be expected ( @xmath177 ) .",
    "the only change in the model is that the x - ray luminosity increases to the maximum grid value of 1% of eddington ( @xmath178 , table 6 ) , while the photon index is slightly steeper ( @xmath179 ) .",
    "thus as the 2007 observation caught pds 456 in a higher flux than in 2011 , it would appear that the ionization state of the wind , as governed by the luminosity ( @xmath180 ) of the illuminating continuum , was also correspondingly higher .",
    "here we also briefly discuss some of the physical conditions within the wind model , noting however that the exact parameters are dependent upon the model fitted and thus should just be viewed as typical estimates .",
    "we also reiterate that there are significant degeneracies among parameters of the wind model fitted here , which are not adequately explored within the limited parameter space of the current model grid . for reference , however , we take the above best fit case with the wind geometry of model b , fitted to both the 2007 and 2011 datasets , for the case of a mass outflow rate ( with respect to eddington ) of @xmath165 and with inclination @xmath181 . for this model and inclination parameter , the column density through the flow along the observer s line of sight is estimated to be @xmath182@xmath5 and thus the compton depth is of the order @xmath183 .",
    "however the compton depth through the flow is strongly inclination dependent ; while for low values of @xmath139 the compton depth can be reasonably high , reaching @xmath184 for the case of @xmath185 , for face - on inclinations the depth can be negligible , e.g. @xmath186 for @xmath187 ( for the geometry of model b ) .",
    "figure 2 of @xcite demonstrates the overall effect of varying inclination on the compton depth through the flow .    in the case of model b ,",
    "most of the absorption occurs over a physical radius of typically @xmath188 .",
    "this is likely to be somewhat geometry dependent and we further note that we fixed the inner and outer radius from which the wind is launched to lie in the range @xmath189 .",
    "however we can take a reasonable radial scale for the wind to be of the order @xmath190 , which for pds456 , with an estimated black hole mass of @xmath191 @xcite , would correspond to a radius of @xmath192 cm .    in that case",
    "some typical physical timescales for the wind can be estimated .",
    "a simple light - crossing or reverberation timescale of the wind would be of the order @xmath193s",
    ". the physical flow timescale may be somewhat ( a factor of a few ) longer than this , depending on the exact velocity profile of the wind , although noting that the outflow velocity predicted from the xstar modeling is fairly fast , of @xmath194 .",
    "in contrast the ionization and recombination timescale of the wind may be fairly short .",
    "if , for pds456 , we take a typical column density ( depending on the exact line of sight ) of @xmath195@xmath5 and a radial length scale of @xmath196 cm , then the typical electron densities within the flow may be of the order @xmath197@xmath198 , although we note that the density in the wind will not be uniform .",
    "this could yield measurable ionization and recombination times for highly ionized iron within the outflow ( e.g. for fexxvi ) of @xmath199s @xcite .",
    "such timescales are certainly well within the 4 years timescale between the 2007 and 2011 observations , thus it would appear reasonable for the ionization conditions of the wind to have responded to the overall lower flux level in the 2011 observations .",
    "subsequent on - going monitoring of the variability of the wind in pds456 , with _",
    "suzaku _  , _ xmm - newton _  and _ nustar _ observations in 20132014 , will hopefully provide more insight on the variability timescales .",
    "we can also compare the properties of the fast outflow in pds456 , with the ultra fast outflows typically observed in agn , such as those presented in @xcite . from the xstar",
    "fits shown in table3 , the ionization parameter is typically @xmath200 for a column density of @xmath201@xmath5 . in that case",
    ", pds456 lies in the typical range of the @xmath87 vs. @xmath202 distribution for the ultra fast outflows presented in @xcite , see their figure 1 , while pds456 lies towards the higher end of the velocity distribution .",
    "this is also the case from comparing pds456 with the properties of the fast outflows detected in the _ suzaku _  sample of @xcite . for a radial distance scale of the wind in pds456 of @xmath203 ,",
    "then according to the radial correlations in @xcite , we are viewing the wind in pds456 along the innermost measured part of the agn outflow ( see their figure 3 of ionization , column or outflow velocity vs radial location in the wind ) .",
    "thus pds456 would appear to have the typical properties of an ultra fast outflow , although we could be viewing the quasar through the innermost part of the disk wind .",
    "finally we can make an approximate estimate for the sizescale of the soft x - ray absorbing region , which can either be associated with the more typical warm absorbing regions found in seyfert 1s @xcite , or with near neutral matter partially covering the x - ray source .",
    "although no velocity information on the soft x - ray absorber is available from these data , if it is associated with the typical velocities found in soft x - ray warm absorbers , of @xmath204kms@xmath1 , then for a variability timescale within 4 years , the implied absorber sizescale is @xmath205 cm .",
    "although the estimate is very much dependent on the absorber velocity , this sizescale is similar to the fast absorber associated with the accretion disk wind .",
    "one final consideration is how much the intrinsic x - ray emission in pds456 is suppressed by the disk wind , especially as it appears that pds456 may be directly viewed through the marginally compton thick part of the flow at moderate inclination .",
    "the observed 2 - 10kev luminosity of pds456 in 2011 is @xmath206ergs@xmath1 .",
    "this would make pds456 relatively x - ray quiet compared to bright radio - quiet quasars @xcite , as the observed 2 - 10 x - ray luminosity is only @xmath168% of the total bolometric luminosity of @xmath207ergs@xmath1 @xcite .",
    "indeed such a low 2 - 10kev luminosity is also predicted by the disk wind modeling , as the fit typically favoured @xmath140 to be typically about @xmath168% of the eddington luminosity , which for the estimated black hole mass of @xmath208 ( r09 ) , is @xmath209ergs@xmath1 for pds456 .",
    "we note that the x - ray flux of pds456 is attenuated by the disk wind by a factor of @xmath210 in the models fitted here , which could in part explain the x - ray weakness .",
    "potentially further attenuation of the x - ray emission could occur if shielding gas were also present in pds456 , which is not accounted for in the @xcite model , but may be needed for the wind not to become over ionized in the acceleration region @xcite .",
    "the partial covering absorber discussed in previous sections could possibly act as a source of such material if it is located near the base of the wind , which would in effect lower the x - ray luminosity that both the wind and the observer sees .",
    "pds456 may also be similar in this regard to bal quasars , which are known to be x - ray weak due to absorption @xcite .",
    "alternatively it may be that pds456 is intrinsically x - ray weak , as the observed bolometric correction for the 2 - 10kev band luminosity is a factor @xmath211 , much higher than in typical agn @xcite .",
    "it is possible , however , for the 2 - 10kev bolometric correction to reach values of @xmath18 for eddington limited sources ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and thus agn like pds 456 may therefore be intrinsically x - ray weak . although pds456 is a high luminosity agn , it may have some similarities with narrow lined seyfert 1s , which can also have weak 210kev emission with respect to bolometric , due to their steep x - ray photon indices @xcite . while pds456 has broad balmer lines ( e.g. h@xmath10 fwhm @xmath212kms@xmath1 ) , like the nls1s it does have weak [ oiii ] yet strong feii emission @xcite , while its intrinsic x - ray photon index is also steep ( @xmath213 ) .",
    "thus pds456 may also be a high luminosity analogue of the nls1s , with a high eddington ratio .",
    "we have presented a new 2011 _ suzaku _  observation of the nearby , luminous quasar pds 456 . the new observation has confirmed the detection of the iron k - shell absorption lines that were detected in the 2007 _ suzaku _  observation @xcite , at @xmath214kev in the quasar rest frame .",
    "indeed the possibility of highly blueshifted absorption in pds456 was first suggested by @xcite as evidence for a fast , powerful wind .",
    "we have shown that the 9kev band absorption can not be modeled with an absorber with zero ( or small ) outflow velocity and instead is best modeled by highly blue - shifted lines from fexxv - xxvi , with an outflow velocity of @xmath215 .",
    "this makes pds456 one of the fastest high velocity outflows known , compared to those detected in recent x - ray samples @xcite , which tend to cover the range from @xmath216 .",
    "the overall x - ray spectrum of pds 456 in 2011 also appears to be harder and observed at an lower overall flux , compared to the 2007 observation .",
    "this spectral variability could not simply be accounted for by a simple change in continuum level and photon index between the observations .",
    "the differences between the two observations can be explained by variations in the line of sight covering fraction of a partial covering absorber .",
    "this interpretation has also been favored to explain the x - ray spectral variability of several type i agn , which can sometimes display low and hard absorbed spectra , which may be due to partial occultation by absorbing clouds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "alternatively the 2011 spectrum may also contain a higher fraction of reprocessed and scattered x - ray emission , for instance off the surface of an accretion disk wind .",
    "alternatively the 2011 spectrum may have a higher fraction of reprocessed and scattered x - ray emission , for instance off the surface of an accretion disk wind .",
    "indeed we have shown that the strongly blue - shifted fe k band absorption in pds456 can be produced by a simple smooth 2d parameterization of an accretion disk wind @xcite . in pds 456",
    ", it may appear that we are viewing the quasar at relatively low inclination through at least a marginally compton thick part of an accretion disk wind , which can also explain the absorbed nature of the x - ray spectrum , especially at a lower flux during 2011 .",
    "pds456 also shows characteristics similar to bal quasars and is also x - ray weak , which may be accounted for by enhanced x - ray absorption towards the quasar .",
    "the iron k band outflow velocity of pds456 is also similar to the x - ray outflow velocity measured in the well studied bal quasar , apm 08279 + 5255 , at @xmath217 @xcite .",
    "interestingly an earlier uv snapshot spectrum of pds456 @xcite , with hst / stis , revealed the possibility of broad absorption troughs , e.g. at the lyman-@xmath21 line , as well as a highly blueshifted civ emission profile .",
    "further upcoming spectroscopy with hst / cos will hopefully shed light on the possible uv bal like features in pds456 .",
    "generally , accretion disk driven winds appear to be a promising starting point to explain the increasing number of ultra fast outflows now been observed in agn x - ray spectra @xcite .",
    "such profiles , such as the smooth 2d wind model of @xcite , can also self consistently explain their iron line emission profiles as well as absorption and can reproduce an apparent p - cygni like profile , as measured for instance in pg1211 + 143 @xcite .",
    "disk winds models can also plausibly reproduce the broad iron lines of some seyfert 1s , through reflection off the wind surface @xcite . in order to accurately quantify",
    "such winds , more realistic geometries ( likely including sub - structure / clumping ) need to be explored , as well as time - variability in the flow ; indeed a radiatively driven agn disk wind might be expected to display complex time dependence @xcite .",
    "further deep observations of pds456 , scheduled with _ suzaku _  and _ xmm - newton_during 2013 , will further explore the short time - scale variability of the wind spectrum . in the future , iron k absorption profiles will be revealed with unprecedented resolution with the sxs calorimeter on - board _ astro - h_.",
    "reeves acknowledges financial support from stfc and _ chandra _ grant number go1 - 12143x .",
    "turner acknowledges nasa grant number nnx11aj57 g .",
    "we would like to thank javier garcia , for the use of his xillver reflection model .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained from the _ suzaku _ satellite , a collaborative mission between the space agencies of japan ( jaxa ) and the usa ( nasa ) .",
    "xis & 2007 & 2007/02/24 17:58 & 2007/03/01 00:51 & 190.6 & 3.46 & 3.55 &  + hxd / pin & 2007 &  &  & 164.8 &  &  & @xmath218 + xis & 2011 & 2011/03/16 15:00 & 2011/03/19 08:33 & 125.6 & 1.36 & 2.84 &  + hxd / pin & 2011 &  &  & 93.6 &  &  & @xmath219 +      line1 & energy ( kev ) & @xmath59 & @xmath58 & 124.3 + & @xmath220(kev ) & @xmath221 & @xmath222 + & flux@xmath223 & @xmath224 & @xmath225 + & ew@xmath226(ev ) & @xmath227 & @xmath228 + line2 & energy ( kev ) & @xmath229 & @xmath230 & 37.6 + & @xmath220(kev ) & @xmath231 & @xmath231 + & flux@xmath223 & @xmath232 & @xmath233 + & ew@xmath226(ev ) & @xmath234 & @xmath235 + line3 & energy ( kev ) & @xmath236 & @xmath230 & 36.9 + & @xmath220(kev ) & @xmath237 & @xmath230 + & flux@xmath223 & @xmath238 & @xmath239 + & ew@xmath226(ev ) & @xmath240 & @xmath241 + power - law & @xmath90 & @xmath242 & @xmath243 + & flux@xmath244 & 3.55 & 2.77 +          pc1 & @xmath87@xmath245 & @xmath254 & @xmath230 + & @xmath202@xmath223 & @xmath255 & @xmath230 + & @xmath88@xmath226 & @xmath256 & @xmath230 + & @xmath257@xmath244 & @xmath258 & @xmath259 + & @xmath260@xmath261 & @xmath262 & @xmath263 + & @xmath264@xmath265 & @xmath266 & @xmath267 + pc2 & @xmath87@xmath245 & @xmath268 & @xmath230 + & @xmath264@xmath265 & @xmath269 & @xmath270 + power - law & @xmath90 & @xmath271 & @xmath230    lccc @xmath272 & -0.5 & -0.1 & 2 + @xmath273 & -0.5 + @xmath274 & 0.025 & 0.975 & 20 + @xmath275 & 1 & 5 & 3 + @xmath276 & 1.5 + @xmath148 & 1 & 2 & 2 + fe abundance / solar & 1.0 + @xmath90 & 1.8 & 3.0 & 3 + @xmath277 & 0.001 & 0.01 & 3 + [ tab : syn ]      @xmath278 & 1 & 2 & 2 & 2 + @xmath279 & 1 & 1 & 2 & 1 + @xmath280 & 0.32 & 0.32 & 0.32 & 0.32 + @xmath281 & @xmath282 & @xmath283 & @xmath284 & @xmath285 + @xmath286 & @xmath287 & @xmath288 & @xmath289 & @xmath290 + @xmath90 & @xmath291 & @xmath292 & @xmath293 & @xmath294 + @xmath295 & 163.1/148 & 128.9/148 & 136.1/148 & 217.4/162 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a comparison of two _ suzaku _  x - ray observations of the nearby ( z=0.184 ) , luminous ( @xmath0ergs@xmath1 ) type i quasar , pds456 . a new 125ks _ </S>",
    "<S> suzaku _  observation in 2011 caught the quasar during a period of low x - ray flux and with a hard x - ray spectrum , in contrast to a previous 190ks _ suzaku_observation in 2007 when the quasar appeared brighter and had a steep ( @xmath2 ) x - ray spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> the 2011 x - ray spectrum contains a pronounced trough near 9kev in the quasar rest frame , which can be modeled with blue - shifted iron k - shell absorption , most likely from the he and h - like transitions of iron . </S>",
    "<S> the absorption trough is observed at a similar rest - frame energy as in the earlier 2007 observation , which appears to confirm the existence of a persistent high velocity wind in pds 456 , at an outflow velocity of @xmath3c . </S>",
    "<S> the spectral variability between 2007 and 2011 can be accounted for by variations in a partial covering absorber , increasing in covering fraction from the brighter 2007 observation to the hard and faint 2011 observation . </S>",
    "<S> overall the low flux 2011 observation can be explained if pds456 is observed at relatively low inclination angles through a compton thick wind , originating from the accretion disk , which significantly attenuates the x - ray flux from the quasar . </S>"
  ]
}