{
  "article_text": [
    "at 17 - 23 mpc the virgo cluster is the nearest large grouping of galaxies to us .",
    "it has played a prominent role in astronomical research since the identification of an excess of nebulous objects in this area of sky was noted by both messier and herschel .",
    "it was first recognised as a group of extra - galactic objects by shapley and ames ( 1926 ) .",
    "the proximity of the virgo cluster enables us to study both the general properties of galaxies and the way in which the cluster environment may have affected how galaxies evolve .",
    "the cluster contains a wide morphological mix of galaxies that subtend some of the largest angular sizes for extra - galactic objects ( the elliptical m87 subtends 7 arc min , and the spiral m58 subtends 6 arc min diameter ) and so allows us to study not only large numbers of galaxies , but also individual galaxies in detail .",
    "recent surveys of the virgo cluster include x - ray",
    "( bohringer et al . 1994 ) , ultra - violet ( boselli et al .",
    "2011 ) , optical ( vcc , binggeli et al .",
    "1985 , acs , cote et al . 2004 ,",
    "vgvs , mei et al .",
    "2010 , sdss , abazajian et al .",
    "2009 ) , near infrared ( 2mass , skrutskie et al .",
    "2006 , ukidss , warren et al .",
    "2007 ) , far - infrared ( iras , neugebauer et al . 1984 , herschel , davies et al . 2012 ) and 21 cm , ( alfalfa , giovanelli et al .",
    "2005 , viva , chung et al .",
    "2009 , ages , taylor 2010 ) .",
    "prominent amongst these surveys is the optical survey of binggeli et al .",
    "( 1985 ) , which listed about 2000 cluster members and has subsequently served as the primary input for many of the other surveys . clearly , no other galaxy cluster has its galaxy population known to this level of detail and for this reason we now intend to put these various data sources together to hopefully obtain a clearer picture of what constitutes the virgo cluster .    before starting on this inventory we will set the scene by reviewing the cluster s structure and its environment .",
    "none of this discussion will be very new , but much of what was done in the past was drawn from various , numerous and very different data sources ( binggeli et al .",
    "1987 , binggeli et al . 1993 , gavazzi et al . 1999 ) whereas we can now use the uniform sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) spectroscopic data ( strauss et al . 2002 ) to review the conclusions drawn by others .",
    "the sdss spectroscopic sample consists of spectra of all sdss objects with a @xmath3 band magnitude of @xmath4 . from this extensive data set",
    "we have selected all those objects that have been assigned a velocity of between 400 and 10,000 km s@xmath5 within a @xmath6 sq deg region centred on m87 ( ra(j2000)=187.706 , dec(j2000)=12.391 ) .",
    "the minimum value of 400 km s@xmath5 was chosen to avoid confusion with galactic stars and the maximum value of 10,000 km s@xmath5 is arbitrary , but we wanted to show the larger scale structure around virgo .",
    "are only exclude here so that the structure of virgo can be seen in the figures and is not confused by other non - virgo sdss objects .",
    "there are of course virgo galaxies with velocities less than 400 km s@xmath5 , which will be included in all of the quantitative analysis described later . ]",
    "we will adopt the distances to the various components of the cluster as given in gavazzi et al .",
    "they use tully - fisher and fundamental plane scaling relations to obtain velocity independent distances to many of the brighter cluster galaxies .    in fig .",
    "1 we show the distribution of cluster galaxies on the sky by limiting the velocity range to a maximum of @xmath7 km s@xmath5 . as we will show below this is the highest velocity of any of the galaxies in our herschel sample and clearly , as shown in fig .",
    "2 , this separates the cluster in velocity , from other galaxies in other galactic structures . in fig .",
    "1 ( left ) we show the position of the galaxies separated into two velocity ranges , @xmath8 km s@xmath5 ( 463 galaxies ) are shown in purple and those with @xmath9 km s@xmath5 ( 227 galaxies ) are shown in green .",
    "23 , discussed in more detail below , shows that the virgo cluster galaxy velocity distribution is double peaked and that it roughly corresponds with the above two intervals .",
    "following binggeli et al .",
    "( 1987 ) we identify five structures on fig . 1 ( left ) :    1",
    ".   sub - cluster a - galaxies around , but not exactly centred on m87 , which has a velocity of about 1300 km s@xmath5 .",
    "binggeli et al .",
    "( 1987 ) describe sub - cluster a as rich in early type galaxies .",
    "gavazzi et al .",
    "( 1999 ) place sub - cluster a at 17 mpc , a distance we will use in what follows .",
    "sub - cluster b - galaxies around , but not exactly centred on m49 , which has a velocity of about 1000 km s@xmath5 .",
    "binggeli et al . (",
    "1987 ) describe sub - cluster b as rich in late type galaxies and say that it is falling into sub - cluster a from behind .",
    "gavazzi et al .",
    "( 1999 ) place sub - cluster b at 23 mpc , again a distance we will use in what follows .",
    "w cloud - galaxies in this region seem to be isolated spatially and have a greater velocity ( @xmath22200 km s@xmath5 ) than the sub - clusters .",
    "binggeli et al . (",
    "1987 ) say that the distance to the w cloud is about twice that to the sub - clusters and that the w cloud is falling into the sub - clusters .",
    "m cloud - galaxies in this region again seem to be isolated spatially and have a greater velocity ( @xmath22200 km s@xmath5 ) than the sub - clusters .",
    "binggeli et al .",
    "( 1987 ) say that the distance to the m cloud is again about twice that to the sub - clusters and that the m cloud is falling into the sub - clusters .",
    "southern extension - there is a filamentary structure that extends to the south of the cluster .",
    "galaxies in the southern extension are at about the same distance as the sub - clusters and binggeli et al .",
    "( 1987 ) say that they also are falling into the sub - clusters .",
    "1 ( right ) is the same as on the left except that now the colour coding picks out intrinsically red and blue galaxies .",
    "we simply divided the sample of 690 galaxies in half at the median ( g - r ) colour of 0.62 . crudely associating red with early and blue with late types",
    "we can see the morphology density relation ( dressler , 1980 ) with red galaxies more concentrated into the identified structures - the exception being the southern extension . both of the clouds seem to contain their fair share of red galaxies indicating that whatever processes that give rise to the morphology density relation operate on the scale of the clouds as well as on the scale of the sub - clusters .    to reveal the environment of the virgo cluster , in fig .",
    "2 we show the full data set out to 10,000 km s@xmath5 in position velocity plots .",
    "virgo ( sub - clusters a and b ) along with the w and m clouds are clearly distinguished in velocity because of the approximate 3,000 km s@xmath5 void that lies behind virgo .",
    "the black dotted line is at @xmath10 km s@xmath5 and clearly shows why we used this velocity to isolate virgo cluster galaxies in fig.1 . at about 6,000 km s@xmath5",
    "we find what has become known as the great wall , which is a huge filament of galaxies stretching across the sky .",
    "contained within the great wall are two other well known clusters coma and a1367 . in fig .",
    "2 we have again distinguished galaxies via their colour , splitting the sample of 5355 galaxies in half at ( g - r)=0.60 .",
    "again the morphology density relation is apparent on these much larger scales    having hopefully set the scene by briefly describing the structure of the cluster and the environment it resides within , we will now go on and consider the properties of the cluster and its constituent galaxies in much more detail .",
    "we will initially concentrate on the far - infrared properties of the galaxies as measured by the herschel observatory .",
    "we will then add to this new data from the sdss , so that we can consider the stellar properties of the galaxies , and from the arecibo legacy fast alfa ( alfalfa ) survey to consider the gas properties .",
    "in addition and where required we will add information on x - ray gas , warm / hot gas , star formation rates and molecular gas to try and get as complete picture as possible of the cluster and its galactic population . we will then use this data to consider the chemical evolution of the galaxies and the cluster , its current star formation rate , galaxy scaling relations ( mass , size , radius ) and the total mass including the x - ray gas and dark matter .",
    "finally , we will briefly compare the properties of the two sub - clusters a and b described above .",
    "this paper is a continuation of a series of papers written by us , primarily using data taken from our herschel guaranteed open time project the herschel virgo cluster survey ( hevics ) . in the previous 13 papers we have described : the survey and considered the properties of the bright galaxies in a single central 4@xmath114 sq deg field ( paper i , davies et al . , 2010 ) , how the cluster environment truncates the dust discs of spiral galaxies ( paper ii , cortese et al . , 2010 ) , the dust life - time in early - type galaxies ( paper iii , clemens et al . ,",
    "2010 ) , the spiral galaxy dust surface density and temperature distribution ( paper iv , smith et al . , 2010 ) , the properties of metal - poor star - forming dwarf galaxies ( paper v , grossi et al . , 2010 ) , the lack of thermal emission from the elliptical galaxy m87 ( paper vi , baes et al .",
    ", 2010 ) , the far - infrared detection of dwarf elliptical galaxies ( paper vii , de looze et al . , 2010 ) , the properties of the 78 far - infrared brightest cluster galaxies ( paper viii , davies et al . , 2012 ) , the dust - to - gas ratios and metallicity gradients in spiral galaxies ( paper ix , magrini et al . , 2011 ) , the cold dust molecular gas relationship ( paper x , corbelli et al . , 2012 ) , the environmental effects on molecular gas and dust ( paper xi , papalardo et al . , 2012 ) , the far - infrared properties of 251 optically selected galaxies , ( paper xii , auld et al .",
    ", 2013 ) and the dust properties of early type galaxies ( paper xiii , di serego alighieri et al . , 2013 ) . a further five papers ( boselli et al . 2010 , cortese et al . 2012 , boselli et al . 2012 , smith et al .",
    "2012 , 2012a ) discuss hevics galaxies together with other galaxies observed as part of the herschel reference survey ( hrs ) .",
    "we use as our starting point the herschel data presented and described in auld et al .",
    "this consists of observations of a total area of 84 sq deg made using herschel in parallel scan map mode to obtain data in five bands ( 100 , 160 , 250 , 350 and 500@xmath12 m ) . for a full discussion of this data and its reduction and calibration",
    "we refer the reader to davies et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) .    using",
    "the fully reduced herschel data we then used the optically selected virgo cluster catalogue ( vcc , binggeli et al .",
    "1985 ) as the basis of a search for far - infrared emission from vcc members present in the herschel data .",
    "the resulting galaxy sample is fully described in auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) , including a list of flux densities , dust masses and temperatures . here",
    ", we give a brief summary .",
    "we used an automated routine to search for far - infrared emission at the position of the 750 vcc galaxies in our herschel survey area .",
    "this resulted in the detection at 250@xmath12 m of 251 galaxies .",
    "although it is not ideal to have an optical rather than a far - infrared selected sample we have no other way of ensuring that we have a pure cluster sample rather than one contaminated by background sources . we will show below that there is no evidence for additional cluster far - infrared sources missed by our selection method .",
    "the 251 galaxies listed by auld et al . , ( 2013 ) extend in distance ( as given in the goldmine database , gavazzi et al .",
    "2003 ) from 17 to 32 mpc with galaxy groupings at 17 , 23 and 32 mpc .",
    "this range of 15 mpc in depth is large for a cluster and much larger than the linear size we survey on the plane of the sky ( about 4 mpc at a distance of 23 mpc ) .",
    "for this reason in this paper we restrict our analysis to galaxies with distances of 17 and 23 mpc so that line - of - sight and plane of sky distances are comparable .",
    "these distances correspond with those of sub - cluster a containing m87 and sub - cluster b containing m49 ( gavazzi et al .",
    "1999 ) - as described in the introduction .",
    "it excludes galaxies in the clouds and the southern extention .",
    "this leads to a surveyed volume of about 62.4 mpc@xmath13 .",
    "this distance scale is consistent with that recently measured by mei et al .",
    "( 2007 ) and with a hubble constant of 73 km s@xmath5 mpc@xmath5 , which we will use where required throughout this paper .    restricting distances to between 17 and 23",
    "mpc leads to a sample of 208 galaxies .",
    "however , upon inspection of the data in goldmine 4 of these were discovered to be listed as background galaxies ( vcc12 , vcc28 , vcc40 and vcc262 ) .",
    "a further galaxy vcc881(north ) was removed because of its close proximity to vcc881(south ) and hence possible confusion , this gives 203 galaxies . as described above sdss velocity data is now available for a flux limited ( @xmath14 ) sample of galaxies over the virgo cluster region . to see if we were missing any optical sources not included in the vcc ( which was selected to almost equivalently @xmath15 ) we searched the sdss archive for galaxies over our survey area , which had a helio - centric velocity of 400 - 2600 km s@xmath5",
    "- this led to 43 new optical detections .",
    "four of these new optical detections were subsequently found to have been detected in our herschel data at 250@xmath12 m and these have been added to our list to make a total of 207 galaxies in our final sample - 147 at 17 and 60 at 23 mpc .",
    "this gives a mean distance for our sample of 18.7 mpc .    in order to carry out our inventory of the cluster we require , in addition to our herschel data , information at other wavelengths",
    "we have used ( where available ) b and h band magnitudes from the nasa extra - galactic database ( ned ) , 21 cm atomic hydrogen observations from the arecibo legacy fast alfa survey ( alfalfa , giovannelli et al .",
    "2007 ) , used molecular hydrogen masses from corbelli et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and young et al .",
    "( 2011 ) and data from the compilation of galaxy metalicities and star formation rates from hughes et al .",
    "it is our intention to use correlations within these sparsely populated data sets to obtain the data we require for all 207 of our herschel sample objects .",
    "the auld et al . ( 2013 ) data is obtained from the positions of optically selected galaxies in the vcc .",
    "this is not ideal as we would prefer to select galaxies via their far - infrared flux density when constructing far - infrared luminosity functions .",
    "the problem of course is identifying which far - infrared sources belong to the cluster and which are in the background . to address this issue",
    "we have carried out a faint galaxy number count analysis of the virgo field and compared it to the faint galaxy number counts derived from the north galactic pole ( ngp ) field observed by the h - atlas consortium ( eales et al .",
    "we have done this at 250@xmath12 m because this is the wavelength at which the auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) sample was selected i.e. all the objects had to have a 250@xmath12 m detection .",
    "our primary motivation for doing this is to compare the number counts from the general field ( ngp ) with that obtained by looking through the virgo cluster into the universe beyond . in this way we can assess the contribution made by the cluster to the total galaxy counts .",
    "the ngp data is fully described in valiante et al .",
    "( in prep ) . to summarise it consists of two orthogonal scans covering @xmath2180 sq deg of sky compared to the eight scans used for the virgo data over @xmath285 sq deg .",
    "the ngp data has been reduced using the same data reduction pipeline as the virgo data , with the exception that the ngp data has been gridded onto a 5 arc sec pixel scale while the virgo data uses 6 arc sec pixels .",
    "we have used the source detection programme sextractor to extract faint sources from both the virgo and ngp data , taking great care to apply identical methods to both fields .",
    "this is important because it quickly became apparent that very small changes in , for example the threshold detection level , can greatly alter the number of sources detected .",
    "the virgo field suffers from considerable cirrus contamination , which we substantially reduced by subtracting from the data a smoothed version of itself .",
    "the cirrus occurs on many spatial scales , but by subjectively considering the obvious features we decided on gaussian smoothing with a full width half maximum of 11 arc min to create the smoothed frame . as the herschel data has a mean value of zero ( by design ) the subtraction conserves flux in the image .",
    "the subtraction flattens the sky considerably , but does lead to some dark rings ( negative values ) around the brighter galaxy images because of their influence when deriving the local sky value .",
    "this should not be a problem as bright sources are least affected by sky brightness errors and we are primarily interested in the possibility of there being faint ( relatively small ) galaxies in virgo that we have missed via our optical source selection .",
    "we will show below that at bright magnitudes the number counts are consistent with the auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) data .",
    "the above does not rule out the possibility of there being rather large ( @xmath210 arc min or above ) sized far - infrared sources in virgo - these would be impossible to distinguish from the cirrus using our method .",
    "m faint galaxy number counts ( solid red line ) compared to the faint galaxy number counts in the general field as measured in the h - atlas ngp data ( solid black line ) .",
    "the red dashed lines indicate lower and upper level expectations for the virgo counts given the variations in sky noise in the virgo field , which suffers from larger galactic cirrus contamination .",
    "the blue line shows the number counts using the 251 galaxies from the auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) data .",
    "the green dashed line has a slope of 1.5 and indicates the expected counts for a non - evolving euclidean universe .",
    "the black dotted line indicates the minimum flux density detectable given the minimum detection area and 1@xmath16 noise level in the ngp data . ]",
    "although the ngp field seems to be mostly devoid of galactic cirrus , to be consistent we applied the same sky subtraction method to the ngp data . for a realistic comparison to be made between the two fields we need to correctly account for the different noise characteristics of the two fields and see how this affects what sextractor does",
    "sextractor measures the background noise over a specified area ( mesh size ) and uses this local value to extract sources of a given size above some multiple of this noise .",
    "we chose the mesh size to be 100 sq arc min , much larger than a typical galaxy .",
    "we then had to determine the fraction ( @xmath17 ) of the background noise to set the detection threshold at , given the noise in the two data sets ( ngp and virgo ) .",
    "we experimented with multiple 100 sq arc min apertures to see how different the noise was both within and between the two data sets .",
    "the noise level was lower in the longer exposure virgo data ( but by only a factor of 0.9 ) , but there was also a larger scatter in the values , presumably due to the residual galactic cirrus ( see below ) .",
    "we set the detection threshold at 1@xmath16 in the ngp field , which equated to a 1.6@xmath16 detection in the virgo data with its larger pixels and lower noise per pixel .",
    "we set the minimum detection size to that of the 250@xmath12 m beam area of 423 sq arc sec .",
    "the derived number counts for both the ngp and virgo fields are shown in fig .",
    "3 . the solid black line shows the ngp number counts .",
    "the counts are consistent with other counts and detection methods used on previous h - atlas data ( clements et al .",
    "the green dashed line has a slope of 1.5 , which is what is expected for a non - evolving euclidean universe .",
    "the line has been drawn to illustrate the sharp rise in the counts above a flat non - evolving model at a flux density of about 0.2 jy , as previously shown by clements et al .",
    "the black dotted line indicates the minimum possible flux density for a source the size of the beam with all pixels at 1@xmath16 above the background ( 0.013 jy ) .",
    "the solid red line shows the counts in the virgo field .",
    "the excess of bright cluster sources is clearly seen departing from the background at about 1 jy . the blue line is for the original 251 galaxies from the auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) sample and is consistent with the bright galaxy data ( @xmath18 jy ) obtained using sextractor ( solid red line ) .",
    "the important question is whether there is a faint galaxy excess in the virgo field that might be associated with a far - infrared population not detected using our optical source list .",
    "looking at fig .",
    "3 we can see that below about 1 jy the black line traces the red line very well and there is no evidence for an excess population over and above that detected by our optical selection . to be sure of this conclusion",
    "we have assessed the effect of changing our detection threshold . as stated above the variation in detection threshold ( calculated within the mesh size )",
    "is quite consistent across the ngp field , but does vary across the virgo field .",
    "we have calculated the standard deviation of the 1@xmath16 fluctuations over fifty 100 sq arc min areas in the virgo field to see how this influences the virgo counts .",
    "we have used this standard deviation to see how changes in the threshold across the field influence the counts .",
    "the effects of these threshold variations is show by the red dashed lines on fig .",
    "3 . clearly",
    "the effect of these changes in the threshold value do not alter our conclusion that the optical selection is picking up most , if not all , of the far - infrared sources in the cluster .    given the above discussion",
    "we conclude that there is no good evidence for an additional population of faint far - infrared sources that is not associated with the previously identified optical sources . based on this , below",
    "we proceed to construct luminosity functions .      using",
    "the auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) data we can greatly extend and update the far - infrared luminosity functions presented in davies et al .",
    "( 2012 ) . from the sample definition in auld et al .",
    "( 2013 ) all galaxies have a detection at 250@xmath12 m , but not necessarily at the other wavelengths . to make the data sets complete for all 207 galaxies across all wavelengths we have used the mean observed flux density ratios ( with 250@xmath12 m ) to predict the missing flux density values .",
    "of the 207 galaxies 46 , 37 , 22 , 47 galaxies have had their data predicted by this means using ratios ( @xmath19 ) of 1.11 , 1.34 , 0.52 and 0.25 at 100 , 160 , 350 and 500@xmath12 m respectively .    in fig .",
    "4 we show the derived luminosity functions with the best fitting schechter functions .",
    "the diamond symbols show the data before the adjustment for missing values was made , the crosses after correcting for missing values .",
    "the adjustment predominantly affects the faint end of each luminosity function .",
    "the schechter parameters of each fit are given in table 1 using where necessary the cluster volume of 62.4 mpc@xmath5 .",
    "as we will see when comparing to other far infrared luminosity functions the virgo luminosity functions are characterised by a flat faint - end slope ( @xmath20 ) .    to illustrate the disparity between the cluster and field luminosity functions",
    ", we also show in table 1 the schechter fitting parameters for luminosity functions derived by others - see also fig .",
    "5 . the iras field 100@xmath12 m data comes from the compilation of 629 galaxies in the bright galaxy sample of sanders et al .",
    "we have simply used the galaxy distances to measure the relevant detection volumes .",
    "the herschel data comes from the h - atlas survey ( eales , private communication ) using data from the three spire bands at 250 , 350 and 500@xmath12 m .",
    "the planck data is taken directly from negrello et al .",
    "( 2013).m flux densities by 1.35 to make them approximately equivalent to the herschel 500@xmath12 m data , see baes et al .",
    "( 2013 ) . ]",
    "the most disparate wavelength between cluster and field is 100@xmath12 m , where the iras luminosity function of nearby bright galaxies is considerably steeper at the faint end than that in the cluster .",
    "sanders et al .",
    "( 2003 ) ( using the bolometric infrared luminosity rather than the 100@xmath12 m flux density used here ) actually fit the luminosity function with two power laws , one of slope @xmath21 and at the faint end with @xmath22 m luminosity function based on pacs 70 , 100 and 160@xmath12 m data .",
    "] , compared to our single schechter function fit with @xmath23 . with a slope of @xmath24 our cluster luminosity function",
    "either lacks faint dusty galaxies and/or the star formation required to heat the dust .",
    "we will return to the issue of dust mass and dust heating in section 4 .",
    "another noticeable difference between the cluster and the field is the lack of very luminous infrared sources in the cluster - the derived @xmath25 for the field is about a factor of 20 higher than in the cluster . given that the density of @xmath25 galaxies in the field is only about @xmath26 mpc@xmath27 even with a cluster over density of about 100 we would still only expect 1 in every 1000 mpc@xmath27 or about a 10% chance of finding one in our cluster volume . without studying more clusters we can not say whether we are unlucky or that clusters do not contain bright far infrared sources , though the lack of bright sources in clusters has previously been noted by bicay and giovanelli ( 1987 ) . with a faint - end slope of @xmath28 the iras luminosity function is unbound and we can not calculate a luminosity density ( @xmath29 ) ) .",
    "comparing our virgo longer wavelength luminosity functions with others , we find that a steeper faint - end slope and a larger value of @xmath30 are a common feature of the field .",
    "recently eales et al .",
    "( private communication ) have derived the 250 , 350 and 500@xmath12 m luminosity functions using h - atlas data for galaxies with @xmath31 ( @xmath32 mpc ) .",
    "negrello et al .",
    "( 2013 ) have done a similar thing using planck 350 and 550@xmath12 m data for galaxies with @xmath33 mpc , see table 1 . and fig.5 .",
    "when comparing the two the planck data gives a steeper faint - end slope , about the same @xmath30 and a luminosity density a factor of about 2 higher than the herschel data .",
    "generally the cluster has a far - infrared luminosity density about two orders of magnitude higher than that of the field .",
    "the far - infrared luminosity density values given in table 1 are about a factor of 2 higher than those given in table 2 of davies et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , which were derived by summing the contributions of the bright galaxies rather than fitting and then integrating a schechter luminosity function .",
    "the issue of the differences between the local field luminosity functions of herschel h - atlas and planck does not concern us here , but the differences between cluster and field do .",
    "it is clear that at all far - infrared wavelengths there is a lack of fainter sources in the cluster compared to what is generally found in the local field .",
    "explanations could be that there is either a relative lack of emitting dust , it is cold or if far - infrared emission is closely connected to star formation ( see below ) then there is a lack of star formation in low luminosity cluster systems ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> herschel fir observations are used to construct virgo cluster galaxy luminosity functions and to show that the cluster lacks the very bright and the numerous faint sources detected in field galaxy surveys . </S>",
    "<S> the far - infrared seds are fitted to obtain dust masses and temperatures and the dust mass function . </S>",
    "<S> the cluster is over dense in dust by about a factor of 100 compared to the field . </S>",
    "<S> the same emissivity ( @xmath0 ) temperature relation applies for different galaxies as that found for different regions of m31 . </S>",
    "<S> we use optical and hi data to show that virgo is over dense in stars and atomic gas by about a factor of 100 and 20 respectively . </S>",
    "<S> metallicity values are used to measure the mass of metals in the gas phase . </S>",
    "<S> the mean metallicity is @xmath1 solar and @xmath250% of the metals are in the dust . for the cluster as </S>",
    "<S> a whole the mass density of stars in galaxies is 8 times that of the gas and the gas mass density is 130 times that of the metals . </S>",
    "<S> we use our data to consider the chemical evolution of the individual galaxies , inferring that the measured variations in effective yield are due to galaxies having different ages , being affected to varying degrees by gas loss . </S>",
    "<S> four galaxy scaling relations are considered : mass - metallicity , mass - velocity , mass - star formation rate and mass - radius - we suggest that initial galaxy mass is the prime driver of a galaxy s ultimate destiny . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we use x - ray observations and galaxy dynamics to assess the dark and baryonic matter content compared to the cosmological model .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : ism - galaxies : clusters individual : virgo - galaxies : general : ism </S>"
  ]
}