{
  "article_text": [
    "with the rapidly growing corpus of digitally available textual data , there has been a significant interest in unsupervised language processing techniques  @xcite . principal component analysis ( pca ) and the closely related latent semantic analysis ( lsa )",
    "@xcite have been widely and successfully applied to various classes of documents to identify relations among documents , e.g.  cluster the documents according to topics or indexing documents  @xcite .",
    "nowdays , lsa is employed by many search engines to improve results based on clustering documents to topics of interest .",
    "while the basic recipe for lsa is well known , each data source might require special treatment according to its unique characteristic .",
    "a relatively new and potentially valuable source of digital textual data is the corpus of messages posted by users to online social network ( osn ) websites . using these new datasources",
    ", previous research showed the possibility to gain valuable new insights into the structure and dynamics of society , gaining the possibility to address questions whose study was previously limited by the scarcity of available data  @xcite .",
    "also , the possibility to simultaneously analyze both the network topology of connections between users and the corpus of textual data posted by them opens up new possibilities in the fields of social , network and computer sciences  @xcite .",
    "a valuable aspect of some online social networks is the inclusion of spatial data .",
    "for example , the users of the twitter microblogging service have the ability to attach their geographic coordinates to their short messages ( tweets ) , which opens up the possibility to analyze the geographical variation of language use on massive amounts of readily available data  @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we evaluate principal component analysis ( pca ) techniques on a dataset which consists of geo - tagged twitter messages ( tweets ) , and investigate the feasibility of identifying regional characteristics of language use .",
    "our approach is to consider a medium - sized geographical region as one `` document '' , and apply pca to the corpus of documents which we produce by assigning the text of tweets to the to the geographic region where it was posted . in this way , the rows of our term - document matrix correspond to geographical regions and the columns to the words included in our corpus .",
    "this method ignores the possible variation present inside the regions ( e.g.  multiple distinct topics in one region ) , and the possibility to detect topics which are globally present .",
    "this is in accordance in our goals ; we wish to identify the regional variations .",
    "detection of topics without a clear regional focus might be possible with other natural language processing methods , and local variations can be detected by `` zooming in '' to regions with a high number of tweets to obtain a finer - grained picture of language use .",
    "in many real - world pca applications , the data matrix can be considered as the weighted sum of two parts , one of which is sparse and the other is low - rank .",
    "the low - rank part can be thought of as some `` background '' component , while the sparse part can either contain the relevant data or can be composed of some nontrivial outliers .",
    "depending on the nature of the problem studied , either one or both of them might be of interest . in these cases , it would be desirable to be able to separate these two parts , and to analyze them separately . also ,",
    "if the sparse part has a large magnitude , the principal components found by pca will be dominated by the outliers and revealing the low - rank structure present in the data can prove difficult . in the case of our corpus of twitter messages ,",
    "we expect the data matrix to be indeed separable into these two parts .",
    "we expect the low - rank component to represent the true variation in language use ( e.g.  usage frequencies of words will possibly be different in different geographic regions ) , and the sparse part to contain highly localized topics of interest ( e.g.  landmarks ) . to deal with these issues , we employ the _ principal component pursuit _ technique developed by cands  et.al . , which achieves the separation of the original data matrix into its sparse and low - rank parts effectively  @xcite .",
    "we used the publicly available sample datastream to download geotagged tweets .",
    "our dataset includes a total of 1.3 billion tweets between august 2012 and march 2013 . among these ,",
    "725 million are geo - tagged , i.e.  have gps coordinated associated with them . in this paper , we limit our analysis to tweets from the contiguous united stated of america , a total of approximately 245 million tweets .",
    "we constructed a geographically indexed database of these tweets , which allows the efficient analysis of regional features  @xcite .",
    "we use the htm scheme for geographic indexing  @xcite .",
    "this employs a quad - tree , where the surface of the earth is recursively divided into spherical triangles called htm cells or _",
    "trixels_. the indexing works on multiple levels ; a deeper ( i.e.  more detailed ) level can be acquired by dividing each trixel into 4 smaller triangles by connecting the midpoints of the sides .",
    "the subdivision is started by 8 spherical triangles ( level 0 ) .",
    "we compile the list of the most frequently used words from the tweets , and compute their spatial distribution .",
    "we divide the usa to level 6 htm cells ; we have a total of 558 cells with an approximate cell area of 15500 km@xmath0 each .",
    "we construct the word occurrence matrix @xmath1 as the number of occurrences of the @xmath2-th word in the @xmath3-th cell . as the population density of the usa",
    "is very heterogeneous , the number of word occurrences in each cell is also heterogeneous . to improve the quality of the dataset",
    ", we only include cells which contain at least 10000 occurrences of at least 1000 individual words .",
    "we also limit the words used to those with at least 10000 occurrences in at least 300 individual cells .",
    "this way there remain 491 cells ( see fig .",
    "[ scntl ] ) and 6032 words , which form the @xmath1 word occurrence matrix . before applying the pca procedure ,",
    "we normalize @xmath1 so that the elements are the relative frequencies of words : @xmath4 , i.e.  we normalize each element by the total number of words posted in that cell . due to the structure of our data matrix , and the employed robust pca method , we chose not to subtract averages from the data ; of course , this will probably result in that average word frequencies dominate the first principal components .",
    "furthermore , we compile a higher resolution data matrix from the same dataset focusing on new york city , with a total of 6.3 million tweets . in this case",
    ", we use level 13 htm cells ( approximate cell area : @xmath5 ) , to possibly identify small - scale language use differences .",
    "we limit our analysis to trixels with at least @xmath6 occurrences of at least @xmath7 individual words . also , we only include words with at least @xmath7 occurrences . this way",
    ", we have @xmath8 trixels and @xmath9 words ( see fig .  [ nycntl ] ) .",
    "figs / scntl ( 89,45)@xmath10 ( 89,36.4)@xmath11 ( 89,27.8)@xmath12 ( 89,19.2)@xmath13 ( 89,10.6)@xmath14 ( 89,2 ) @xmath15    figs / nycntl ( 77,92.5)@xmath16 ( 77,75.2)@xmath17 ( 77,57.9)@xmath18 ( 77,40.6)@xmath19 ( 77,23.3)@xmath20 ( 77,6)@xmath21      we compute the singular value decomposition ( svd ) of the data matrix @xmath22 : @xmath23 the diagonal matrix @xmath24 contains the singular values , while the column of @xmath25 and @xmath26 contain the principal components .",
    "the components reveal the sources of variation in the data , ordered by their magnitude of contribution .    to analyze the results we can plot each component ( i.e.  the columns of the @xmath26 matrix ) on the map of the usa ; we color each trixel according to the corresponding value ( see fig .",
    "[ twv5 ] ) .",
    "we also inspect the values which can be associated to the individual words in each component ( i.e.  the columns of the @xmath25 matrix ) .      while the classic pca method is useful for detecting structure in the data , in some cases , it might not give optimal results .",
    "one such case is that when there are outliers in the data ; in this case , the main principal components are dominated by them and identifying a possible low - rank structure becomes more challenging .",
    "filtering out these can also prove difficult , as in many cases , it is not straightforward to estimate the relevance of components in the raw data . in the case of twitter messages",
    ", this would mean the identification of the sources of outliers ( e.g.  spammers and advertisement , weather forecast , local tourist attractions ) , and excluding messages containing them . while this would improve the results of the pca",
    ", it might also leave out some relevant data .",
    "a more favorable approach would be a method , which can be applied to the raw data matrix , and automatically separates outliers ( i.e.  sparse parts ) and low - dimensional structure . in this case",
    ", we can inspect the sparse part separately , and decide which components are relevant .",
    "this can be obtained by the _ principal component pursuit _",
    "technique  @xcite , which separates the data matrix into these two parts : @xmath27 where @xmath28 is a sparse matrix and @xmath29 contains the dense but low - rank part of the data .",
    "this is achieved by minimizing the sum @xmath30 where for a matrix @xmath22 of dimensions @xmath31 with @xmath32 , @xmath33 , and the norms are the @xmath34 and nuclear norms respectively : @xmath35 here @xmath36 denotes the @xmath2-th singular value of @xmath22 . to obtain the results we use the matlab code developed by lin  et  al . implementing the inexact augmented lagrangian method  @xcite .",
    "we carry out the svd for both matrices and analyze the results simultaneously .",
    "we expect the principal components of @xmath28 to contain information about highly localized trends ( i.e.  features specific to only one or few cells ) , and the components of @xmath29 to contain the possibly smooth variations in language use .",
    "figs / th2 ( 0.5,-1)@xmath37 ( 98,-1)@xmath38     +   +   +   +   +    -2cm-2 cm +    on fig",
    ".  [ twv5 ] , we show the first five principal components obtained by both methods overlayed on the map of the usa . as we deliberately chose not to subtract any mean values from the data ,",
    "the first component does not seem to contain any relevant structure . as the mean values in the original data matrix are the same for each cell , the outlier cells displayed here are the ones where the otherwise rare words are in abundance .",
    "the second component shows a clear structure in both cases , with the southern usa being separated from the rest ( note that the sign is inverted in the case of the low - rank part ) .",
    "examining the words giving the largest contribution ( i.e.  the columns of the @xmath25 matrix ) , we can identify that this separation is mainly due to swear words , abbreviations and words with spelling specific to online social networks ( see table  [ twu ] ) . in the case of the classic pca and the sparse part identified by pca pursuit , words found in weather reports are also significant .",
    "these contributions mainly come from the northern usa , where in some cells a large proportion of geolocated tweets come from meteorological services . on the other hand , in the case of the low - rank part identified by the pca pursuit",
    ", the southern usa is mainly counteracted by words relevant to the geographic features of the northern usa , e.g. `` winter '' or `` snow '' .",
    "this means that the separation is effective , the `` outlier '' cells are indeed well filtered by the method .    in the case of the higher components ,",
    "the difference between the two methods becomes more drastic .",
    "the results of the classic pca are dominated by outliers  cells which are isolated centers where the content of the tweets differ significantly from the rest .",
    "some of these can be considered `` noise '' : meteorological stations , service announcements and tweets of job advertisements ; on the other hand , some of these show real localized features : e.g. in the case of fifth component , the `` outlier '' cell is the location of the grand canyon , where a significant proportion of tweets indeed mention the canyon itself ( see figs .",
    "[ twv5v5 ] and  [ twv5sp5 ] ) . in the case of the pca pursuit",
    ", these results are present in the sparse part ( which is very similar to the results of the classic pca ) . the low - rank part contains slowly varying vectors , which mimic of the geographic and social features of the usa .    in the case of the low - rank part , in the third component",
    ", the major cities are separated from the countryside : words like downtown , sushi , mall or pub are opposed by words like truck. in the case of the fourth component , areas with high ratio of spanish speaking twitter users are separated from the northeastern usa .      -2cm-2",
    "cm    m0.8cm|m3cm|m3cm|m3cm|m3cm|m3 cm & 1st component & 2nd component & 3rd component & 4th component & 5th component +   positive scores & armory , guggenheim , bergen , flatiron , pianos , saks , consulting , jetblue , seaport , gramercy , intrepid , pinkberry , caffe , herald , richmond , cinemas , uniqlo , saloon , katz , championships & coffee , manhattan , awesome , brunch , others , bar , photo , nyc , apartment , street , subway , posted , totally , cafe , ousted , film , beer , also , view , 2012 & actually , power , apparently , two , also , hour , found , first , place , year , seriously , three , literally , kind , sure , holy , least , dinner , week , run & development , gallery , cocktails , sidewalk , une , ipa , intern , espresso , panel , vegan , screening , venue , pas , avec , cocktail , companies , filming , ceo , designer , dans & records , corn , amy , trains , sake , beyonce , oven , recommend , image , potato , ultimate , charles , impressed , rolls , trailer , artists , madonna , cap , homemade , roommate + negative scores        & going , today , right , lol , see , will , got , don , love , good , know , just , like , get , one , now , back , new , time , day & funny , ca",
    "nt , i m a , smh , yea , lmaoo , hate , niggas , got ta , sleep , do nt , mad , text , tho , cause , ass , wanna , bitch , nigga , idk & voy , muy , tienes , mejor , para , nada , esa , estoy , siempre , tiene , cuando , una , mas , por , como , las , pero , eso , hoy , esta & shore , yay , picking , island , hahaha , sucks , luck , excited , coffee , hours , hour , holy , mets , car , guys , rangers , awesome , dad , amazing , haha & bistro , institute , het , offices , nao , oyster , reade , lga , meetup , sono , een , gotham , tribeca , airlines , falafel , meu , minha , stout , vai , vou    we have seen that we were able to identify the low - rank structure of variations in language use on the scale of the usa . to test if there are such variations present on a much smaller scale , we applied the same method to the region containing most of new york city ( fig .  [ nycntl ] ) .",
    "results obtained for this corpus are depicted on fig .",
    "[ nyv5 ] ( principal components of the obtained low - rank matrix ) .",
    "these components separate the city into its various districts . in the case of the first two components",
    ", manhattan is mainly separated from the rest of the city ; in the case of the second component , the separation is again in part due to the use of swear words and online text specific abbreviations .",
    "the third component is now mainly about the ratio of spanish texts , with the bronx and queens giving significant contributions .",
    "we also examine whether the space of principal components obtained for new york city is similar to the components obtained for the whole usa .",
    "we project the word occurrence matrix of new york city into the space of principal components obtained for the whole usa : @xmath39 , and then plot the obtained vectors on the map of new york ( fig .",
    "[ nytwv5 ] ) .",
    "we get that most components separate the city in a meaningful way , suggesting that some of the differences obtained at large scales are relevant on much smaller scales too .",
    "in this paper , we investigated the feasibility of principal component analysis to identify regional features of user content present in geotagged twitter messages . using the _ pca pursuit _ technique",
    ", we were able to separate the low - rank and sparse parts present in the data , and identify some of the main features in both .",
    "examining the spatial distribution of the principal components of the low - rank part , we found that there are indeed large - scale spatial variations present among twitter users .",
    "we also investigated the scalability of this method and found that some of the principal components found for the whole usa are also relevant if we only consider the much smaller area of new york city .",
    "the methods presented here can be the basis for studying language use on large - scale in the future .",
    "the ability to separate the word usage matrix into a low - rank and sparse component opens up many possibilities .",
    "the principal components of the sparse part can be used to identify regional or highly localized topics of interest , and also to identify sources of twitter content generated by bots and services , as these can be easily spotted in otherwise low - density regions . on the other hand ,",
    "the low - rank part shows relevant regional variations in language use .",
    "exploring possible connections between language use differences revealed by the methods employed here and other demographic or social features will probably yield new insights into the dynamics of society and language .",
    "our next goal is to combine the pca pursuit method with sentiment analysis methods developed previously by mitchell  et  al .",
    "@xcite .",
    "on the other hand , the results of pca might lead to more direct applications . identifying locations of users based on the content of their messages has been previously evaluated using probabilistic approaches  @xcite .",
    "now , using the space of pca components , we might be able to estimate the location of texts ( e.g.  a small set of tweets from a specific user , or connected group of users ) more efficiently .",
    "also , comparing the result obtained here with the results obtained by text mining methods focusing on other ( i.e.  non geographic ) features has the potential to extend those approaches to obtain spatial results too .",
    "also , our further goals include implementing the better integration of the pca pursuit method and the related data processing steps into the database to obtain an integrated and easy - to - use environment for analyzing large corpuses of possibly geo - tagged texts .",
    "the authors thank the partial support of the european union and the european social fund through project futurict.hu ( grant no . : tamop-4.2.2.c-11/1/konv-2012 - 0013 ) , the otka 7779 and the nap 2005/kckha005 grants .",
    "eitkic_12 - 1 - 2012 - 0001 project was partially supported by the hungarian government , managed by the national development agency , and financed by the research and technology innovation fund and the makog foundation .",
    "landauer , t. , and dumais , s. ( 1997 ) . a solution to plato s",
    "problem : the latent semantic analysis theory of acquisition , induction , and representation of knowledge .",
    "_ psychological review _ ,",
    "* 1*(2 ) , 211240 .",
    "lin , z. , chen , m. , and ma , y. ( 2010 ) .",
    "the augmented lagrange multiplier method for exact recovery of corrupted low - rank matrices . ` arxiv:1009.5055 ` .",
    "emmanuel j. cands , xiaodong li , yi ma , john wright ( 2011 ) .",
    "robust principal component analysis .",
    "_ jacm _ , * 58 * ( 3 ) , 11 .",
    "we use the matlab code made available by chen  et  al .",
    ": ` http://perception.csl.illinois.edu/matrix-rank/sample_code.html ` .",
    "backstrom , l. , sun , e. , and marlow , c. ( 2010 ) .",
    "find me if you can : improving geographical prediction with social and spatial proximity .",
    "_ www 10 : proceedings of the 19th international conference on world wide web .",
    "_ cheng , z. , caverlee , j. , and lee , k. ( 2010 ) .",
    "you are where you tweet : a content - based approach to geo - locating twitter users .",
    "bakshy , e. , rosenn , i. , marlow , c. , and adamic , l. ( 2012 ) .",
    "the role of social networks in information diffusion .",
    "_ www 12 proceedings of the 21st international conference on world wide web _ , 519528 .",
    "bakshy , e. , and hofman , j. ( 2011 ) .",
    "everyone s an influencer : quantifying influence on twitter .",
    "_ proceedings of the fourth acm international conference on web search and data mining .",
    "_ leskovec , j. , backstrom , l. , and kleinberg , j. ( 2009 ) .",
    "meme - tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle .",
    "_ proceedings of the 15th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining - kdd 09 _ , 497 .",
    "eisenstein , j. , oconnor , b. , smith , n. , and xing , e. ( 2012 ) .",
    "mapping the geographical diffusion of new words . `",
    "arxiv : 1210.5268 `    rodriguez , m. g. , leskovec , j. , and schlkopf , b. ( 2012 ) .",
    "structure and dynamics of information pathways in online media . `",
    "arxiv : 1212.1464 ` foster , j. , etinoglu , . , wagner , j. , le roux , j. , hogan , s. , nivre , j. , hogan , d. and van genabith , j. ( 2011 ) .",
    "# hardtoparse : pos tagging and parsing the twitterverse .",
    "aaai workshop , analyzing microtext .",
    "_    myers , s. , zhu , c. , and leskovec , j. ( 2012 ) .",
    "information diffusion and external influence in networks .",
    "_ proceedings of the 18th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining .",
    "_ watts , d. , and dodds , p. ( 2007 ) .",
    "influentials , networks , and public opinion formation .",
    "_ journal of consumer research _ , * 34*. retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/518527",
    "mitchell l , frank mr , harris kd , dodds ps , danforth cm ( 2013 ) .",
    "the geography of happiness : connecting twitter sentiment and expression , demographics , and objective characteristics of place .",
    "_ plos one _ * 8*(5 ) : e64417 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> principal component analysis ( pca ) and related techniques have been successfully employed in natural language processing . </S>",
    "<S> text mining applications in the age of the online social media ( osm ) face new challenges due to properties specific to these use cases ( e.g.  spelling issues specific to texts posted by users , the presence of spammers and bots , service announcements , etc . ) . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we employ a robust pca technique to separate typical outliers and highly localized topics from the low - dimensional structure present in language use in online social networks . </S>",
    "<S> our focus is on identifying geospatial features among the messages posted by the users of the twitter microblogging service . using a dataset which consists of over 200 million geolocated tweets collected over the course of a year </S>",
    "<S> , we investigate whether the information present in word usage frequencies can be used to identify regional features of language use and topics of interest . using the _ pca pursuit _ method </S>",
    "<S> , we are able to identify important low - dimensional features , which constitute smoothly varying functions of the geographic location . </S>"
  ]
}