{
  "article_text": [
    "is important in various experimental domains , such as material analysis applications , astrophysics , photon science and bio - medical physics .",
    "as one of the interactions photons undergo in matter , it is relevant in experimental methods concerned with the energy deposition resulting from photons as primary or secondary particles .",
    "apart from elastic scattering at very low energies , photoionization is the dominant photon interaction in the low energy rgime : as an example , below approximately 100  kev for target materials of atomic number around 30 , and below approximately 700  kev for heavy target materials of atomic number close to 90 .",
    "photoionization is also experimentally relevant for the secondary atomic processes that it induces , x - ray fluorescence and auger electron emission , which are play a relevant role in many physics research contexts and technological applications .",
    "extensive reviews , that cover both the theoretical and experimental aspects of this process , can be found in the literature , for instance in @xcite ( this list of references is not intended to be exhaustive ) .",
    "this paper is concerned with modeling the physics of photoionization under a pragmatic perspective : the simulation of this process in general purpose monte carlo codes for particle transport .",
    "calculations for the simulation of the photoelectric effect are implemented in all general purpose monte carlo systems , nevertheless a comprehensive , quantitative appraisal of their validity is not yet documented in the literature .",
    "assessments reported in the literature usually concern comparisons of cross sections with nist reference values , such as @xcite , or involve complex observables resulting from many physics processes in the full simulation of an experimental set - up , such as @xcite . in this respect , it is worthwhile to note that the validation of simulation models implies their comparison with experimental measurements @xcite : comparisons with tabulations of theoretical calculations or analytical parameterizations , such as those that are reported in @xcite as validation of geant4 @xcite photon interaction cross sections , do not constitute a validation of the simulation software .",
    "some relatively recent theoretical calculations and empirical analytical formulations documented in the literature have not been yet exploited in large scale monte carlo codes , nor have been comparatively evaluated in terms of accuracy and computational requirements with respect to currently used simulation methods .",
    "the accuracy of simulation methods is quantified through statistical comparison with a wide collection of experimental data retrieved from the literature .",
    "these results provide guidance for the selection of physics models in simulation applications in response to the requirements of physics accuracy and computational speed pertinent to different experimental scenarios .",
    "special emphasis is devoted to the validation and possible improvement of photoionization simulation in geant4 ; nevertheless , the results documented in this paper provide information relevant to other monte carlo systems as well .",
    "the simulation of the atomic relaxation following the ionization of an atom has been treated in previous publications @xcite , threfore it is not included in the scope of this paper .",
    "photoionization has been the object of theoretical and experimental interest for several decades ; only a brief overview is included here to facilitate the comprehension of the software features and the simulation validation results documented in this paper .    in the photoelectric effect",
    "a photon disappears and an electron is ejected from an atom .",
    "the energy of the photoelectron corresponds to the difference between the energy of the absorbed photon and the energy binding the electron to the atom .",
    "the study reported here focuses on the evaluation and validation of basic physics features relevant to the simulation of the photoelectric effect : atomic cross sections and photoelectron angular distributions .",
    "the photoelectric cross section as a function of energy exhibits a characteristic sawtooth behavior corresponding to absorption edges , as the binding energy of each electron subshell is attained and corresponding photoionization is allowed to occur .",
    "early theoretical calculations of photoionization cross sections were limited to the k shell ; they are tipified by the papers of pratt @xcite , providing the asymptotic behavior for arbitrarily high energies , and pratt et al .",
    "@xcite , reporting calculations in the energy range between 200  kev and 2  mev . only at a later stage",
    "more extensive calculations became available : rakavy and ron @xcite calculated cross sections for all subshells of five elements over the energy range 1  kev to 2  mev , schmickley and pratt @xcite reported cross sections for k to m shells for three elements from 412 to 1332  kev .",
    "scofield s non - relativistic calculations @xcite in a hartree - slater framework represented a major advancement in the field , as they covered systematically all subshells over the whole periodic table of the elements .",
    "more recent calculations were performed by chantler @xcite in a self - consistent relativistic dirac - hartree - fock framework .",
    "various empirical formulations of photoionization cross sections are reported in the literature , such as in @xcite .",
    "they derive from fits to experimental data , parameterizations of theoretical calculations and semi - empirical methods involving both measured data and theoretical considerations .",
    "computational performance imposes constraints on the complexity of physics calculations to be performed in the course of simulation : hence the analysis in this paper is limited to theoretical cross sections for which tabulations of pre - calculated values are available and to empirical models that are expressed by means of simple analytical formulations . to be relevant for general purpose monte carlo systems",
    ", tabulated data should cover the whole periodic table of elements and an extended energy range .",
    "the photoelectric cross section compilations considered in this study are summarized in table  [ tab_compilations ] .",
    ".compilations of photoionization cross sections [ cols=\"<,>,>,>,>,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab_pshell ]      two examples of angular distributions are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig_angk ] and [ fig_angl2 ] .",
    "the limited experimental data sample does not allow a meaningful statistical analysis .",
    "subshell , at 412 kev.,width=321 ]",
    "an extensive set of models for the simulation of photoionization has been quantitatively evaluated regarding their accuracy at reproducing experimental measurements .",
    "all total cross section calculation methods are equivalent in terms of compatibility with experimental data , with the exception of those calculated by chantler and by brennan and cowan . the fraction of test cases that are compatible with experiment drops at energies below 250 ev .",
    "inner shell cross section calculations are compatible with experimental data , with the exception of ebel s parameterization for the k shell .",
    "outer shell photoionization cross sections are incompatible with experimental data ; nevertheless the limited data sample hints not to draw any hasty conclusions about the accuracy of the examined models .",
    "due to the scarce availability of experimental data and possible systematic effects in the reported measurements , only a qualitative appraisal of photoelectron angular distribution models is possible .",
    "all geant4 angular distribution models exhibit a similar behavior ; the corrected geant 3 model appears in some cases different from the others and qualitatively competitive .",
    "the full set of results will be documented in a forthcoming journal publication .",
    "the cern library has provided helpful assistance and essential reference material for this study .",
    "t. g. trucano , l. p. swiler , t. igusa , w. l. oberkampf , and m. pilch ,  calibration , validation , and sensitivity analysis : what s what \" , _ reliab .",
    "syst . safety _ ,",
    "10 - 11 , pp .",
    "1331 - 1357 , 2006 .",
    "g. a. p. cirrone , g. cuttone , f. di rosa , l. pandola , f. romano , and q. zhang , `` validation of the geant4 electromagnetic photon cross - sections for elements and compounds '' , _ nucl .",
    ". meth . a _ , vol .",
    "315 - 322 , 2010 .                            c. t. chantler , `` detailed tabulation of atomic form factors , photoelectric absorption and scattering cross section , and mass attenuation coefficients in the vicinity of absorption edges in the soft x - ray ( z= 30 - 36 , z= 60 - 89 , e= 0.1 kev-10 kev ) , addressing convergence issues of earlier work '' , _ j. phys .",
    "ref . data _ , vol .",
    "597 - 1048 , 2000",
    ".    j. h. hubbell , `` photon cross sections , attenuation coefficients , and energy absorption coefficients from 10  kev to 100  gev '' , report nsrds - nbs 29 , national bureau of standards , washington , dc ( usa ) , 1969 .",
    "h. ebel , r. svagera , m. f. ebel , a. shaltout , and j. h. hubbell , `` numerical description of photoelectric absorption coefficients for fundamental parameter programs '' , _ x - ray spectrom .",
    "6 , pp . 442451 , 2003 .",
    "s. brennan and p. l. cowan , `` a suite of programs for calculating xray absorption , reflection , and diffraction performance for a variety of materials at arbitrary wavelengths '' , _ rev .",
    "_ , vol . , 63 , pp . 850 - 853 , 1992 .        b. l. henke , p. lee , t. tanaka , r. l. shimabukuro , and b. fujikawa , `` low - energy x - ray interaction coefficients : photoabsorption , scattering , and reflection : e= 1002000 ev z= 194 '' , _ atom .",
    "data nucl .",
    "data tables _ , vol . 27 , pp . 1 - 144 , 1982 .    b. l. henke , e. m. gullikson , and j. c. davis `` x - ray interactions : photoabsorption , scattering , transmission , and reflection at e = 50 - 30000 ev , z = 1 - 92 '' , _ atom .",
    "data nucl .",
    "data tables _ , vol .",
    "181342 , 1993 .",
    "g. battistoni et al . ,  the fluka code : description and benchmarking \" , _ aip conf .",
    "31 - 49 , 2007 .",
    "a.  ferrari et al .",
    ", `` fluka : a multi - particle transport code '' , report cern-2005 - 010 , infn / tc-05/11 , slac - r-773 , geneva , oct . 2005 .",
    "d. e. cullen et al . ,",
    "`` tables and graphs of photon interaction cross sections from 10 ev to 100 gev derived from the llnl evaluated photon data library ( epdl ) '' , lawrence livermore national laboratory report ucrl-50400 , vol .",
    "6 , rev . 4 , 1989 .",
    "j. sempau , e. acosta , j. baro , j. m. fernandez - varea , and .",
    "salvat , `` an algorithm for monte carlo simulation of coupled electron - photon transport '' , _ nucl .",
    "b _ , vol . 132 , pp .",
    "377 - 390 , 1997 .",
    "s. chauvie , g. depaola , v. ivanchenko , f. longo , p. nieminen and m. g. pia , `` geant4 low energy electromagnetic physics '' , in _ proc . computing in high energy and nuclear physics _ ,",
    "beijing , china , pp .",
    "337 - 340 , 2001 .",
    "s. chauvie et al .",
    ", `` geant4 physics processes for microdosimetry simulation : design foundation and implementation of the first set of models '' , _ ieee trans .",
    "2619 - 2628 , 2007 .",
    "m. augelli et al . , `` research in geant4 electromagnetic physics design , and its effects on computational performance and quality assurance '' , in _ 2009 ieee nucl .",
    "177 - 180 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> several physics methods for the simulation of the photoelectric effect are quantitatively evaluated with respect to a large collection of experimental data retrieved from the literature . they include theoretical and empirical calculations of total and partial cross sections , and calculations of the photoelectron angular distribution . </S>",
    "<S> some of these models are currently implemented in general purpose monte carlo systems ; some have been implemented and evaluated for possible use in monte carlo particle transport for the first time in this study . </S>"
  ]
}