{
  "article_text": [
    "over the last three decades , the study of the large - scale structure has thrived in both observations and theory .",
    "this was the consequence of the new insights obtained via large new galaxy redshift surveys , the tremendous increase of computing power , the related emergence and advances of computer simulations , and the development of new analysis methods and sophisticated theoretical models of gravitationally driven structure formation .",
    "however , while an overall theoretical framework for the emergence and evolution of the large scale structure of the universe has been gradually taking shape , there is not yet a comprehensive theory for the formation and evolution of the intricate and complex structure of the cosmic web .",
    "currently , there are a few approximate analytical models describing a range of features and characteristics of the cosmic web .",
    "it is in particular the theoretical framework of @xcite , responsible for coining the name `` cosmic web '' , which has succeeded in combining the aspects of the anisotropic nature of gravitational collapse with the hierarchical nature of the process ( for a review , see * ? ? ?",
    "it incorporates the statistics of peaks in primordial gaussian fields @xcite with a sophisticated nonlocal description of the hierarchical evolution of peaks by means of the peak - patch formalism @xcite .",
    "the latter models the nonlinear anisotropic collapse by means of the homogeneous ellipsoid model @xcite , linking its linear stage to the zeldovich approximation ( hereafter the za ) .",
    "the former is supposed to work on small scales where density perturbations have reached the nonlinear stage of structure formation , while on large scales the density perturbations remain linear or quasilinear .",
    "the boundary separating the two approaches is defined by a heuristic condition requiring that the multistream flows in the za involve only a small fraction of mass and thus can be neglected .",
    "zeldovich himself ( 1970 ) ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggested to use the linear lagrangian model until the multistream flows are well  but not overly  developed in the velocity field .",
    "the studies of @xcite and @xcite showed that the za can be safely used on all scales down to the scale of nonlinearity , @xmath0 , defined by the condition @xmath1 . by this stage",
    "most of pancakes have emerged , and still remain fairly thin . up to this stage , the zeldovich approximation describes conceptually correct , be it crudely , the emergence of multistream flow regions , caustics and the structural skeleton of the cosmic web @xcite .",
    "an additional prominent application of the zeldovich approximation is that of its use as a tool for generating initial conditions in the simulations of cosmological structures @xcite . starting with these studies shortly after its inception",
    ", the zeldovich approximation has become the major generator of the initial conditions in practically every cosmological n - body simulation since 1983 .",
    "it also has been used in many theoretical studies of the non - perturbative nonlinear stage . however , its complete description and explanation of what it exactly predicts has not been provided yet .",
    "the first step in this direction was made twelve years after zeldovich had published his paper .",
    "@xcite described the topology of all generic singularities formed in the two - dimensional case and @xcite found the normal forms of all generic singularities in three dimensions .",
    "the two - dimensional study was focused mostly on the local properties of archetypical singularities while the global picture was described rather schematically .",
    "the authors obviously did not realize the computational complexity of the problem when promised to do a similar analysis in 3d in the following paper .",
    "however , impressive progress in computational geometry and computational graphics observed in the last couple of decades allows to hope for a significant step forward in understanding the geometry and topology of the structure in the za .",
    "one of the major new results of this study is the demonstration that a particular set of lines and points in lagrangian space form a progenitor of the skeleton of the structure at the non - linear stage .",
    "the first attempt to reduce the structure to a geometrical skeleton was done in the adhesion approximation @xcite ( also see @xcite ) . in the adhesion description",
    ", the skeleton was constructed from the linear gravitational potential by a geometrical procedure based on the approximate gravitational dynamics of the za .",
    "later , @xcite and @xcite , as well as @xcite , also discussed the skeleton or spine of the large - scale structure , be it in a rather different context .",
    "they constructed a skeleton from the known nonlinear density field on the basis of morse - smale theory . according to this description ,",
    "the skeleton is traced by the separatrices that connect singularities in the density field .",
    "while the former derives the skeleton from the linear state by using gravitational dynamics as approximated by the za , the latter is purely a topological construction derived from the given density field .",
    "following a philosophy similar to that of our study , @xcite followed up on the work by @xcite with a profound analysis of the critical lines in a density field .",
    "these were identified with those of the skeleton of the cosmic web .",
    "our study sheds a different light on the skeleton of the cosmic web , by connecting it to the dynamical development of the density field .",
    "it acccomplishes this by focussing on the linear deformation field in the primordial density field .",
    "our study demonstrates that the spatial structure of the cosmic web , as it emerges out of the primordial universe , should be identified with critical lines in lagrangian space .",
    "these lines mark the regions near which all decisive dynamical processes take place .",
    "the principal incentive for our study is the identification of the spine of the dynamically evolving cosmic web in the primordial density field .",
    "we argue that this is entirely determined by the set of singularity lines , along which we may trace the caustics that form in the matter distribution as its phase - space structure attains an increasingly complex multistream character .",
    "it is hardly feasible , or practical , to analyze the full nonlinear gravitationally evolved mass distribution such as modelled by cosmological n - body simulations .",
    "however , for our understanding of the geometric structure of the cosmic web we are greatly helped by the observation that the fundamental singularity and caustic structure of the cosmic web is basically entailed in the quasi - linear description of the zeldovich approximation .",
    "although the dynamics in the za is substantially simpler than that in cosmological n - body simulations , the za provides all the necessary concepts and language required for the analysis of the realistic dynamics of cosmological n - body simulations .",
    "it involves the concepts of phase space , lagrangian submanifolds , multistream flows and caustics .",
    "this fact that the zeldovich approximation combines its mathematical flexibility and simplicity with the full richness of concepts that we find in the more complex reality makes it unique among all theoretical models that seek to describe the structure and evolution of the cosmic web .",
    "the main rationale behind our study is therefore that of an attempt to provide a comprehensive description of what the za actually predicts in terms of the dynamically evolving spine of the cosmic web .",
    "it may seem puzzling that in more than forty years after its inception , the za would still require further discussions and explanations . instead of presenting another discussion of the accuracy of the zeldovich approximation",
    ", this paper has the intention to reveal new interesting and useful aspects of the za and demonstrate that the seemingly simplistic mathematical form of the za harbours a rich geometry and complex topology for the emerging structures it describes .",
    "there are a few characteristics of the za that makes its analysis and understanding drastically different and more difficult than that of linearly evolving spatial random fields .",
    "a first important aspect is that the evaluation of the eulerian density field in the za requires both the deformation tensor and the displacement vector fields ( see sect .  [",
    "sec : zeldovich ] ) .",
    "eulerian linear theory only requires one scalar field , the initial density field .",
    "the geometry and topology of vector and tensor fields are considerably more complex than that of scalar fields @xcite .",
    "an important second aspect is that of the stochastic properties of the eigenvalues of the deformation tensor field .",
    "even when its individual components have a gaussian distribution , the eigenvalues have a non - gaussian distribution in all senses @xcite : geometrical , topological and in terms of their probability distribution function .",
    "an additional major complication is related to the generation of multistream flows .",
    "this requires a nonlocal analysis .",
    "we will address these issues in far greater detail than previous studies have done .    in this study",
    "we restrict our analysis to the two - dimensional case .",
    "while it is considerably simpler than in 3d , the two - dimensional analysis still reveals many nontrivial features that also emerge in three dimensions .",
    "all basic concepts of two - dimensional theory remain the same in 3d , which renders the 2d analysis a useful and crucial step towards understanding the full three - dimensional case .",
    "the latter is the subject of an accompanying paper in preparation .",
    "aiming for the cosmological applications , we consider the evolution of a system consisting of collisionless particles interacting only via gravity and having an extremely low temperature .",
    "the examples of currently popular hypothetical dark matter particles are neutralinos and axions .",
    "for instance , if the mass of the universe is dominated by a weakly interacting massive particle with mass of 100 gev , then there would be @xmath2 such particles in the milky way alone .",
    "this implies that the evolution of the dark matter distribution in the universe can be accurately described by a model of a cold collisionless continuous medium .    reading this paper",
    "does not require previous knowledge of catastrophe theory or even the za .",
    "we provide a brief summary of the za in section 2 , follow by an informal introduction to the theory of lagrangian singularities in section [ sec : theoryofsing ] . in the rest of the manuscript",
    ", we analyze the role of singularities in outlining the cosmic skeleton .",
    "section  [ sec : singinza ] describes the role of every generic singularity in the zeldovich approximation .",
    "subsequently , in section [ sec : blueprint ] we explain how the cosmic web is assembled around the progenitor of the skeleton .",
    "finally , in section [ sec : summ ] we summarize and discuss the major results .",
    "the zeldovich approximation is particularly simple in comoving coordinates @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the scale factor and @xmath5 are physical coordinates .",
    "it relates the initial lagrangian coordinates @xmath6 at @xmath7 and eulerian coordinates @xmath8 at time @xmath9 by an explicit relation @xmath10 where the vector field @xmath11 is determined by the initial density perturbations and @xmath12 is the linear density growth factor fully specified by the cosmological parameters .",
    "the zeldovich approximation assumes that the initial displacement field @xmath11 is a potential vector field , @xmath13 in which the scalar displacement potential @xmath14 is directly proportional to the linearly extrapolated gravitational perturbation , @xmath15 the potential character of the deformation vector is a direct consequence of the potential character of the growing mode of the gravitational instability in an expanding universe .",
    "an additionally important aspect of the zeldovich approximation , reflecting its lagrangian nature , is the deformation of mass elements .",
    "the deformation is specified by the deformation tensor , @xmath16    from equation  ( [ eq : za ] ) one may easily infer an explicit expression for the density as a function of lagrangian coordinates and time .",
    "if we consider the conservation of mass in differential form , @xmath17 the density evolution directly follows from @xmath18^{-1},\\ ] ] where @xmath19 $ ] is the jacobian determinant of the map given by equation [ eq : za ] .",
    "it is convenient to write equation [ eq : j ] in terms of the eigen values @xmath20 of the deformation tensor @xmath21 , @xmath22 where a commonly used ordering of the eigen values @xmath23 is assumed . on the basis of this equation , we may immediately infer two key features of structure formation described by the zeldovich approximation .",
    "the first one is that the density becomes infinite as soon as @xmath24 or @xmath25 .",
    "in addition , this collapse is nearly always anisotropic as in general the eigenvalues and @xmath26 only occurs at isolated points . ]",
    "@xmath27 .",
    "it is easy to see that eulerian linear perturbation theory ( elpt ) is a limiting case of the za . expanding the expression for the lagrangian density ( eqn .",
    "[ eq : den_eigen_val ] ) in a taylor series , @xmath28 clarifies the relation between the known linear expression for the density contrast , @xmath29 , @xmath30    formally speaking , the za is valid only in the linear regime when both @xmath31 and @xmath32 .",
    "however , zeldovich made the bold prediction that it might be a good qualitative and arguably even a quantitative approximation up to the beginning of the nonlinear stage , i.e. up to the stage at which @xmath33 .",
    "numerous studies confirmed the conjecture and elaborated on the quantitative accuracy and limitations of the approximation ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* , also see references therein )",
    ".    technically speaking , the za is an extrapolation of lagrangian linear perturbation theory ( llpt ) beyond the range of its formal applicability .",
    "there are two fundamental differences of llpt from its eulerian counterpart elpt .",
    "as may be inferred from equations  [ eq : den_eigen_val ] and  [ eq : denelpt ] , the calculation of the density llpt uses the full deformation tensor while elpt relies only on its trace .",
    "the second difference is due to the necessity in llpt of mapping from lagrangian to eulerian space in order to evaluate the density field in eulerian space .",
    "even at small @xmath34 , where @xmath35 , the difference between llpt and elpt can be quite noticeable if the scale of the initial i.e.  linear velocity field is considerably greater than that of density fluctuations @xcite . in this",
    ", we assume that @xmath34 is evaluated in elpt .",
    "the difference between llpt and elpt becomes considerable when both are extrapolated to a larger @xmath34 .",
    "a particularly obvious problem occurring in elpt is the emergence of negative densities , i.e. @xmath36 , in regions with a large initial density deficit .",
    "for example , if elpt is extrapolated to @xmath37 , the regions with negative densities occupy approximately 2.3% of the volume .",
    "this fraction increases to almost 15% at @xmath38 .",
    "evidently , for a physical model this is an unacceptable circumstance .",
    "llpt is completely free of this problem : at all times it predicts @xmath39 , regardless of the magnitude of @xmath34 .",
    "equation  ( [ eq : za ] ) encapsulates the mapping by the llpt from lagrangian space to eulerian space .",
    "its ramifications can be explored analytically before an overwhelming fraction of mass elements starts to experience shell crossing .",
    "the mathematical complications increase rapidly as the number and extent of the multistream flow regions proliferates .",
    "in particular interesting are those mass elements which are separated by finite distances in lagrangian space and end up at the same places in eulerian space .",
    "these caustics are key manifestations of the dynamically evolving mass distribution and mark the emerging cosmic web . to understand and assess this aspect of the zeldovich approximation",
    ", we require numerical modeling , in particular for the cosmologically relevant situation of random initial conditions .",
    "before we start our investigation of the spatial network defined by the zeldovich approximation , we need an inventory of the individual singularities that may emerge as the cosmic mass distribution evolves into a weblike pattern .",
    "these singularities define the outline of the principal components of the cosmic web , while others arrange the spatial connections that line these components into a pervasive spatial network .    to be able to appreciate this structure , we need to build an inventory of the different caustic geometries that we encounter in the zeldovich approximation .",
    "having obtained insight into the character of the individual singularities , we will be equipped to appreciate their embedding in an extensive and more realistic network of structures .    for a complete inventory of all possible singularities",
    "we need to resort to the mathematical branch of catastrophe theory . in this section",
    "we will present a systematic , yet schematic , inventory of 2d singularities .",
    "while involving a complex mathematical formalism , within the limited context of the present study we invoke images to elucidate the key aspects of catastrophe theory and to appreciate the basic character of each singularity .",
    "in the subsequent sections we will find how these caustic objects are the building stones of the evolving network of filaments and nodes .",
    "when considering the displacement of mass elements from their lagrangian location @xmath6 to their eulerian position @xmath8 , according to the zeldovich displacement equation [ eq : za ] , we may imagine this in terms of the zeldovich approximation outlining a ( hyper)-surface in a four - dimensional _ phase - space_. in this case , the four - dimensional phase - space @xmath40 is defined by four coordinates , the eulerian space @xmath8 coordinates and the lagrangian space @xmath6 coordinates .",
    "the hypersurface @xmath41 is called a lagrangian submanifold .",
    "note that this definition of phase - space is different than the classic position - momentum phase - space .",
    "the non - disipative nature of dark matter dynamics allows us to define a diffeomorphism ( being a smooth and differentiable mapping that is both on - to and one - to - one ) between these two concepts of phase - space throughout even the full non - linear dynamical evolution . in this mapping",
    "all the properties of the projection to eulerian space are completely preserved .",
    "the lagrangian submanifold is a smooth single - valued function @xmath41 of lagrangian coordinates @xmath42 . while our brains are generally unable to imagine such a four - dimensional manifold , for the sake of insight we may illustrate some of the basic qualities for the equivalent situation of one - dimensional space , i.e. for the equivalent two - dimensional phase - space",
    "this you may find in appendix  a.    when looking at the evolving structure in the universe , we are looking at the projection of the full four - dimensional submanifold on to eulerian space @xmath43 .",
    "the evolving structure is a direct reflection of the changing geometry of the lagrangian submanifold , in terms the gradual formation of folds in the submanifold and the orientation of the manifold .",
    "the folding is a direct manifestation of the emergence of multistream regions , where the local number of folds is determined by the number of streams at that location .",
    "locally , we may determine the resulting eulerian density ( perturbation ) @xmath44 by integrating over the various folds .",
    "if at location @xmath43 we find an @xmath45 stream region , each corresponding to a solution @xmath46 for which @xmath47 , the eulerian density is @xmath48 where the sum is taken over all @xmath45 solutions .",
    "it is in the projection of the four - dimensional lagrangian submanifold that we find the appearance of singularities .",
    "these appear if one or more solutions @xmath49 involve an accumulation of ( lagrangian ) mass elements at the eulerian location @xmath43 .",
    "this means that @xmath50 , implying an infinite local mass density , @xmath51 .",
    "the nature of the singularities that appear in the evolving cosmic mass distribution may vary .",
    "there is a limited number of different classes of singularities .",
    "these appear in different circumstances and configurations , and each play their role in outlining the spine of the cosmic web .    in the following subsections",
    "we will present a systematic census of the singularities that may emerge in the two - dimensional reality of the zeldovich approximation . we will follow a mostly visual approach . after passing the basic mathematical concepts of morse theory and catastrophe theory , we illustrate the various singularities and caustics as projections of a higher dimensional _ phase - space _ sheet onto eulerian space .",
    "catastrophe theory @xcite describes how discrete events and objects emerge in a smoothly behaving system .",
    "it is built on morse theory @xcite .",
    "morse theory describes the general case of a - smooth and differentiable - function @xmath52 , in a mapping from @xmath53 to @xmath54 .",
    "specific example of a morse function are the heights of a mountain landscape , or the stochastic spatial random field defined by the mass distribution in the universe .",
    "a key aspect of a morse function @xmath52 is that at each location @xmath42 we can define its gradient , @xmath55 . within this gradient field ,",
    "an exceptional and special position is taken by the _",
    "critical points_. these points are the ones where the derivative vanishes , @xmath56 .",
    "singularities may have one of @xmath57 different identities . in the 2d situation",
    "we recognize three classes : maximum , saddle point and minimum .",
    "this identity is determined by the signature of the eigenvalues of the second derivative @xmath58 of the morse function , following the listing in table  [ tab : signature ] .    the _ critical points _",
    "play an essential role in determining the topology of a landscape .",
    "considering the example of a cosmological density field , we may consider the density superlevel sets .",
    "these consist of the regions with a density superseding the defining threshold value and which have the corresponding density isocontour as boundary .",
    "as we lower the threshold value , the superlevel sets change topology as the threshold isocontour touches a _",
    "critical point_.   +    .singularity character & hessian eigenvalue signature [ cols=\"<,>\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "following the extensive two - dimensional analysis described in the previous sections , we need to discuss how it relates to the structure we find in the fully three - dimensional world .",
    "while a comparable fully detailed analysis of the three - dimensional singularity structure in the zeldovich approximation will be the subject of a separate upcoming publication , we here discuss some relevant observations .",
    "these pertain mostly to the relevance of the 2d discussion to the three - dimensional situation .",
    "it may not come as a surprise that the three - dimensional singularity structure of the patterns generated via the zeldovich approximation is considerably more complex than in the two - dimensional situation .",
    "nonetheless , the detailed assessment of the two - dimensional singularity structures presented in this study includes several important and relevant aspects that can be directly related to the equivalent three - dimensional situation .",
    "a range of key observations on singularities , caustics and catastrophes in 3d may be made . in the following ,",
    "we shortly discuss the most important ones .      in the two - dimensional situation ,",
    "the 2 eigenvalues of the deformation tensor field express themselves in the existence of two families of caustics , the @xmath59 and @xmath26caustics .",
    "given the three eigenvalues of the corresponding deformation tensor in 3d , there are three families of caustics , the @xmath59 , @xmath26 and @xmath60caustics .",
    "on the basis of the corresponding transformation , the global geometry and topology of the cosmic web in three dimensions is determined by the set of @xmath61surfaces .",
    "other singularities live on the set of @xmath61surfaces .",
    "they are the equivalent of the set of @xmath61lines , and @xmath62lines , that we found in this study as the features that define the spine of the cosmic web .      for those 3d singularities that have an equivalent singularity in 2d ,",
    "we find - taking into account trivial generalizations - that the structure of the caustics remain largely equivalent",
    ". one particular aspect for which this is always true is the density profile near singularities .",
    "these turn out to remain the same for equivalent singularities in different dimensions .",
    "a particular example is that of the simplest caustic , the @xmath63 . in 1d ,",
    "the @xmath63 caustic is a point and in 2d it is a line . in the equivalent three - dimensional situation ,",
    "it is a surface .",
    "as was pointed out above , the @xmath63 caustic retains the same density profile near the singularity as in two dimensions , @xmath64 .",
    "the other type of singularity which also exists in 1d is the @xmath65 singularity . in one - dimensional space @xmath65 singularities",
    "are located at a specific set of singular points . at these points",
    ", they will only exist as singularity at one particular instant of time . in two dimensions ,",
    "they are located on @xmath65 lines and at any one instant materialize as _ cusps _ at isolated points along those lines . in three - dimensional space , they are located on surfaces and at any specific instant they materialize on a set of lines . in both 1d , 2d and 3d , the mean density profile of these singularities is the same , @xmath66 .",
    "in addition to the classes of singularities that we could also identify in the two - dimensional situation , there are new types of singularities in the 3d situation .",
    "the emergence of new types of singularities in higher dimensional situations is not unexpected .",
    "for instance , the @xmath67 and @xmath68 singularities that we found in this 2d study do not exist in 1d .    in three dimensions ,",
    "the list of singularity classes is extended by that of @xmath69 and @xmath70 singularities .",
    "they are the only new singularities emerging in the three - dimensional situation .",
    "the @xmath69 and @xmath70 singularities have a considerably more complex structure than the singularities which have two - dimensional equivalents .",
    "this is not unlike the substantially more complex structure of the @xmath67 and @xmath68 singularities with respect to the structure of the @xmath63 and @xmath65 singularities .",
    "the latter exist also in 1d and have a more basic geometry .",
    "in the previous sections we had observed that there is a principal difference between @xmath71- and @xmath72 singularities . while the @xmath71-singularities are determined by only one deformation tensor eigenvalue , @xmath72 singularities are determined by the values of two eigenvalues .",
    "note that this also implies that @xmath72-singularities can not exist in one - dimensional space .    in three - dimensional space ,",
    "up to three eigenvalues may be involved in determining a singularity . in principle",
    "one might therefore expect the existence of an additional new class of singularities .",
    "this turns out not to be the case .",
    "there is no additional new singularity class , with the exception of the trivial case of @xmath73singularities .",
    "these have exactly the same topology as @xmath74singularities .",
    "the reason that there are no additional singularities of a new type is quite straightforward . in a generic deformation field in 3d",
    "there are no points where @xmath75 .",
    "to summarize , in table  [ table : catastrophes ] we list the full inventory of catastrophes that exist in 3d space .",
    "also in three - dimensional space it is possible to extract a skeleton of surfaces , lines and nodes on the basis of a singularity analysis equivalent to the one discussed for the two - dimensional situation .",
    "filamentary structures are traced by swallow - tail caustics , as well as by @xmath68 umbilics . from the experience in the two - dimensional situation , we know that umbilics are never far from a swallow - tail .",
    "however , the inverse need not be true : there are swallow - tails that emerge without any umbilic in their vicinity .",
    "given the fact that the 2d case is to some extent a section of the 3d situation , the same is still true in three dimensions .    from this , we may conclude that in three dimensions filaments will have a diversity of morphologies , each marked by a highly complex structure .",
    "an illustration of three dimensional structure predicted by the the za in 3d is shown in figure  [ fig : pancakes - voids3d ] .",
    "the caustic surfaces are computed using the tessellation of the lagrangian submanifold and subsequently projected to eulerian space , following the description by @xcite .",
    "the resulting figure is a three  dimensional analogy of the top right panel of figure  [ fig : overview ] , including the @xmath26caustics shown in red .    comparing the characteristic weblike structure in figure  [ fig : pancakes - voids3d ] with that obtained by topological techniques for the dissection of the cosmic mass distribution on the basis of the watershed transform @xcite .",
    "telling examples for related results are those that are obtained by the spineweb technique of @xcite and the skeleton technique descibed in @xcite .",
    "also other methods for the dissection of the cosmic spatial mass distribution into its individual structure components , such as the multiscale morphology mmf / nexus formalism @xcite and the tidal and shear tensor methods , advocated by @xcite and @xcite , produce spatial patterns that resemble the one seen in figure  [ fig : pancakes - voids3d ] .",
    "for example , figure  8 in @xcite ( also see fig .  15 in @xcite ) and figure 4(a ) in @xcite reveal a striking qualitative similarity of the weblike structure obtained by the topological spineweb and skeleton techniques and the geometric singularity structure in the zeldovich approximation shown in figure  [ fig : pancakes - voids3d ] .    in one sense",
    ", there is a profound link between topology - based pattern identification and the description of the dynamically evolving mass distribution in terms of its singularity structure .",
    "both are intimately linked to morse theory . in terms of the structural analysis of the cosmic mass distribution ,",
    "morse theory was first invoked by @xcite .",
    "they used it to characterize the structure of the primordial field of gaussian density fluctuations .",
    "however , a complete characterization in terms of the full array of complex structural components seen in the observed pattern of the cosmic mass distribution became only possible after @xcite had introduced the watershed transform .",
    "the similarity between the topology - based identification of the components of the cosmic web and the structure encountered in the zeldovich approximation demonstrates that the latter represent a viable framework for the analysis of n - body simulations .",
    "in particular , this concerns the relation between the initial density and potential field in lagrangian space and the resulting web in eulerian spacee .",
    "we should emphasize that the topological structure identification advocated by @xcite and @xcite is applied to the evolved matter distribution at a particular cosmic epoch .",
    "they are not dynamical descriptions that invoke the initial field of density fluctuations .",
    "instead , they are more intent on connecting the outcome of n - body simulations to the structure seen in the observational reality .    instead , when the analysis described in this paper is extended to its three - dimensional setting , it will provide a dynamical formalism for connecting the primordial lagrangian density field to the weblike structure obtained in simulations .",
    "we expect that the combination of the topological structure identification methods and our dynamical formalisms will lead to a set - up in which observational structures can be more directly and significantly related to the initial cosmological conditions than hitherto possible with existing techniques .",
    "in this study , we have presented and extensively discussed a comprehensive geometric model for the formation of the caustic structure in the frame of zeldovich approximation @xcite . via the identification of singularities appearing in the evolving mass distribution , and by establishing the geometric nature of their connections ,",
    "our model represents a direct analytical description of the dynamical origin of the spine of the cosmic web @xcite .    in this study",
    "we have restricted ourselves to the two - dimensional equivalent of the full three - dimensional system .",
    "because of the complexity of the mathematics involved , catastrophe theory of lagrangian singularities , it is necessary to build an intuition for the relevant mathematical and physical context before one can embark on the considerably more complex three - dimensional situation .",
    "moreover , although the two - dimensional case can not really be directly compared with the full three - dimensional structure of the cosmic web , it turns out to provide us with most of the concepts , principles and language that pertain in 3d space .    the zeldovich approximation @xcite has been demonstrated to be a good theoretical model for the evolution of cosmic structure into the mildly nonlinear regime of structure formation .",
    "it crudely , yet conceptually correctly , describes the onset of the non - perturbative quasi - linear regime .",
    "this includes the emergence of multistream flow regions and caustics @xcite .",
    "its main virtue is that of a good approximate description of structures on scales larger than the scale of nonlinearity , while erasing structures on smaller scales . in the currently popular hierarchical scenarios of structure formation , such as the @xmath76cdm standard cosmology , small scale structure does not heavily influence the structure that emerges on larger scales ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this implies the zeldovich approximation to remain a reasonably good description for the large scale universe .",
    "we have put the zeldovich approximation into the geometric framework used in the mathematical theory of singularities and catastrophes @xcite .",
    "our analysis is directed towards understanding the structure and projections of the lagrangian submanifold , the four - dimensional phase - space ( @xmath77 ) . from catastrophe theory , it is known that there are only a limited number of different singularity classes .",
    "we commence our study with a systematic identification of these singularities .",
    "we follow the well - known ade classification of catastrophes introduced by arnold , yielding the cryptic notation of @xmath63 singularities for _ fold _ singularities , the @xmath65 _ cusp _ singularities , the @xmath67 _ swallow - tail _ singularity and the @xmath68 umbilic singularities .",
    "central in this characterization is the analysis of the lagrangian spatial structure of the two fields of eigenvalues @xmath59 and @xmath26 of the deformation tensor that characterizes the displacement field in the zeldovich approximation .",
    "we study the singularities in lagrangian space , in their identity as the progenitors of caustics in eulerian space .",
    "we combine this with an assessmen of the corresponding evolution of the eulerian environment of the emerging caustics .",
    "a crucial and fundamental singularity is the @xmath63 _ fold _ singularity , which is the progenitor of the well - known _ pancake _ that has become one of the most familiar features in the structure that we see emerge in zeldovich descriptions of the evolving cosmic mass distribution . in addition , we provide an impression of the additional point  like singularities - @xmath78 and @xmath79 - on the basis of illustrations of three - dimensional projections of the corresponding phase - space manifolds .",
    "crucial in the dynamical context that we are considering is that they are stable under perturbation .",
    "this implies that they remain in existence , in one form or the other , into the nonlinear regime of gravitational instability .",
    "the key finding of our study is that in lagrangian space all point  like singularities - @xmath78 and @xmath79 - are located on characteristic one - dimensional lines , the @xmath65-lines . in lagrangian space ,",
    "the outline of these lines is defined by the fundamental structure equation  [ eq : a3 ] .",
    "this definition is entirely motivated by the dynamics of the zeldovich approximation .",
    "the @xmath65 lines delineate the sites where all dynamical activities involved in the buildup of the cosmic web are taking place .",
    "they form the site around which we find the emergence and merger of pancakes , the bifurcation of cusps in eulerian space , and the merger of caustics .",
    "the most complex dynamical processes take place at the crossings of pancakes .",
    "these usually involve singularities of different types and usually are the places where most halos are formed .",
    "it is worth stressing that the collapse is highly non - spherical .",
    "this is true for intersections of pancakes and for regions around @xmath68 singularities , where @xmath80 .",
    "when mapped to eulerian space the @xmath65 lines outline the spine of the cosmic web .",
    "in essence , as the structure equation  [ eq : a3 ] only involves quantities at one point it represents a local definition of the skeleton of the cosmic web .",
    "geometrically it can be defined either as a set of points where the gradient of one of the eigenvalues is orthogonal to the corresponding eigen vector or , equivalently , as a set of points where the eigen vector is tangential to the level contour of the corresponding eigen value .    in summary , we find that the complex geometry of cosmic structure can be understood to a large extent by the @xmath59-fields of the principal eigenvalue @xmath59 of the deformation tensor , and through these specifically through the outline of the @xmath61-lines . the role of @xmath26 field is considerably more modest .",
    "this is largely due to the fact that the first collapse of mass elements is directed towards @xmath61lines .",
    "the @xmath62lines tend to bend and wrap around @xmath61lines .",
    "nonetheless , locally the @xmath62lines play a significant role in the highest concentrations of mass , ie .",
    "the locations where halos form .    in this study , we have also made a beginning with the comparison of the spinal structure outlined by our geometric description and that found in fully nonlinear two - dimensional n - body simulations . by identifying the @xmath65 lines in the ( lagrangian ) displacement field of the 3d n - body simulations , and mapping them to eulerian space we can compare the resulting network with the cosmic web skeleton that emerged in the simulation .",
    "we find that it indeed encapsulates quite an accurate skeleton of the cosmic web .",
    "as yet , we do not present a statistical study of the two - dimensional case .",
    "one of the reasons is that the structure in three dimensions will differ significantly from that in two dimensions .",
    "we therefore refer such a study to the upcoming extension of our analysis to three dimensions . a more extended comparison with cosmological n - body simulations is also referred to such a 3d study .",
    "this study has paved the road towards a profound dynamical analysis of the detailed and intricate structural aspects of the cosmic web .",
    "we expect that its combination with the outcome of large n - body simulations will help us towards a considerable improvement of our understanding of the processes involved in the buildup of structure , not only limited to the highly nonlinear formation and virialization of fully collapsed dark halos but also that of the prominent filamentary features that appear to dominate the maps produced by large galaxy surveys .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge numerous helpful and inspiring discussions with bernard jones and gert vegter .",
    "s. shandarin and r. van de weygaert acknowledge the support from the new frontiers of astronomy and cosmology program at the sir john templeton foundation .",
    "s. shandarin and r. van de weygaert also acknowledge the support by the nwo visitor program ( grant @xmath81 ) .",
    "in addition , s. shandarin acknowledges the scholar visitor program at anl where the text of the paper was finalized .",
    "99 abel , t. , hahn , o. , & kaehler , r.  2012 , mnras , 427 , 61    aragn - calvo m.a . , jones b.  j.  t. , van de weygaert r. , van der hulst j.  m. , 2007 , astron .",
    ", 474 , 315    aragn - calvo m.a . ,",
    "platen e. , van de weygaert r. , szalay a.s . , 2010 ,",
    "j. , 723 , 364    arnold v.i .",
    ", 1982 , trudy seminara imeni i.g .",
    "petrovskogo , 8 , 21    arnold v.i . , 1983 ,",
    "uspekhi mat .",
    "nauk 38 , 77    arnold v.i . ,",
    "1992 , catastrophe theory , 3rd ed .",
    ", springer - verlag    arnold v.i . ,",
    "shandarin s.f . ,",
    "zeldovich ya.b , 1982 , geophysical and astrophysical fluid dynamics , * 20 * , 111    bardeen j.m . ,",
    "bond j.r . ,",
    "kaiser n. , szalay a.,1986 , apj , 304 , 15    bond j.r .",
    ", kofman l. , pogosyan d. , 1996 , nat , 380 , 603    bond j.r . , myers s.t .",
    ", 1996a , apjs , 103 , 1    bond j.r . , myers s.t . , 1996b , apjs , 103 , 41    bond j.r . , myers s.t .",
    ", 1996c , apjs , 103 , 63    bos e.g.p .",
    ", van de weygaert r. , dolag k. , pettorino v. , 2012 , mnras , 426 , 440    buchert t. , 1989 , astron .",
    "astrophys . , 223 , 9    buchert t. , 1992 , mnras , 254 , 729    cautun m. , van de weygaert r. , jones b.  j.  t. , 2013 , mnras , 429 , 1286    coles p. , sahni v. , 1995 , physics reports , 262 , 1    coles p. , melott a.l .",
    ", shandarin s.f . , 1993 ,",
    "mnras , 260 , 765    colombi s. , pogosyan d. , souradeep t. , 2000 , phys .",
    "l. , 85 , 5515    doroshkevich a. , 1970 , astrophysics , 6 , 320    doroshkevich a.g . ,",
    "shandarin s.f . , 1973 ,",
    "astrophysics , 9 , 332    doroshkevich a.g . , ryabenkii v.s . , shandarin s.f . , 1973 ,",
    "astrophysics , 9 , 144    doroshkevich a.g . ,",
    "kotok e.v . ,",
    "novikov i.d . ,",
    "polyudov a.n .",
    ", shandarin s.f .",
    ", sigov yu.s . , 1980 , mnras , 192 , 321    falck , b.  l. , neyrinck , m.  c. , & szalay , a.  s.  2012 , apj , 754 , 126    forero - romero j.e . , hoffman y. , gottlber s. , klypin a. , yepes g. , 2008 , mnras , 396 , 1815    gurbatov s.n . , saichev a.i . ,",
    "shandarin s.f .",
    ", 1989 , mnras , 236 , 385    gurbatov s.n . ,",
    "saichev a.i . ,",
    "shandarin s.f . , 2012 , physics - uspekhi , 55 , 223    hahn o. , porciani c. , carollo c.  m. , dekel a. , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 489    hellwing w.a . , juszkiewicz r. , van de weygaert r. , 2010 , phys . rev .",
    "d. , 82 , 3536    hidding j. , van de weygaert r. , vegter g. , 2013 , mnras , to be subm .    icke v. , 1972 , formation of galaxies inside clusters , ph.d .",
    "thesis , leiden university    icke v. , 1973 , a&a , 27 , 1    klypin a.a .",
    ", shandarin s.f .",
    ", 1983 , mnras , 204 , 891    kofman l. , pogosyan d. , shandarin s. , 1990 , mnras , 242 , 200    lavaux g. , wandelt b.d . , 2010 , mnras , 403 , 1392    lavaux g. , wandelt b.d . , 2012 ,",
    "j. , 754 , 109    li b. , 2011 , mnras , 411 , 2615    libeskind n.i . , hoffman y. , knebe a. , steinmetz m. , gottlber s. , metuki o. , yepes g. , 2012 , mnras , l137    lin c.c . ,",
    "mestel l. , shu f.h . , 1965 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 142 , 1431    little b. , weinberg d.h . ,",
    "park c. , 1991 , mnras , 253 , 295    melott a.l . ,",
    "pellman , t.f . , shandarin s.f . , 1994 , mnras , 269 , 638    melott a.l . , buchert t. , weiss 1995 , a&a , 294 , 345    melott a.l . , shandarin s.f . , weinberg d. , 1994 , astrophys j , 428 , 28    milnor j.w . , 1963 ,",
    "morse theory , ann .",
    ", 51 , princeton univ . press    neyrinck , m.c . , 2012 , mnras , 427 , 494    novikov d. , colombi s. , dor , 2006 , mnras , 366 1201    park d. , lee j. , 2007 , phys rev .",
    "l. , 98 , 1301    peebles j.p.e .",
    ", 1980 , the large - scale structure of the universe    platen e. , van de weygaert r. , jones b.  j.  t. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 551    pogosyan d. , pichon c. , gay c. , prunet s. , cardoso j.f . , sousbie t. , colombi s. , 2009 , mnras , 396 , 635    rozhanskii l.b . ,",
    "shandarin s.f .",
    ", 1984 , preprint no .",
    "79 , inst . of appl .",
    ", akad . of sci .",
    "ussr , moscow    shandarin , s.  f.  2011 , jcap , 5 , 15    shandarin s.f .",
    ", hidding 2013 , in preparation    shandarin s.f . , zeldovich ya.b .",
    "1989 , reviews of modern physics , 61 , 185    shandarin s. , habib s. , heitmann k. , 2012 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 85 , 083005    sousbie t. , pichon c. , colombi s. , novikov d. , pogosyan d. , 2008 , mnras , 383 , 1655    sousbie t. , colombi s. , pichon c. , 2009 , mnras , 393 , 457    thom r. , 1969 , topology , 8 , 313    thom r. , 1972 , structural stability and morphogenesis , w.a .",
    "benjamin    tremaine , s.  1999 , mnras , 307 , 877    tricoche x. , 2002 , vector and tensor topology simplification , tracking , and visualization , phd thesis , univ .",
    "kaiserslautern    van de weygaert r. , arag ' on - calvo m.a .",
    ", jones b.j.t . ,",
    "platen e. , 2009 , ieee cps , e3781 , 3 - 31    van de weygaert r. , bond j.r . , 2008 , lnp , 740 , 335    vasiljev v.a . , 1977 ,",
    "11 , 5    white s.d.m . , silk j. , 1979 , astrophys.j . , 231 , 1    yosisato a. , matsubara t. , morikawa m. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 48    yosisato a. , morikawa m. , gouda n. , mouri h. , 2006 , apj , 637 , 555    zeeman e.c . , 1977 , catastrophe theory .",
    "selected papers 19721977 , addison ",
    "wesley    zeldovich ya.b . , 1970 ,",
    "a&a 5 , 84    zeldovich ya.b . ,",
    "mamaev a.v .",
    ", shandarin s.f .",
    "1983 , sov .",
    "[ fig : lagrmanifold ]        the middle panel in the top row of figure [ fig : lagrmanifold ] shows the lagrangian submanifold embedded in a two - dimensional space where the horizontal axis is lagrangian coordinate @xmath82 and the vertical axis is eulerian coordiante @xmath83 .",
    "three curves show three qualitatively different states of the evolution of a sinusoidal perturbation .",
    "the red diagonal line sows the initial state when @xmath84 , the green line shows the instant of the origin of @xmath65 singularity at the origin .",
    "finally , the blue line shows the state with three streams between two singularities of @xmath63 type .",
    "three panels surrounding the central panel shows the initial velocity @xmath85 ( the bottom panel ) , the evolution of the phase space ( the left panel ) and the density field in eulerian space ( the right panel ) .",
    "three density fields are the projections of either the phase - space lines from the left panel or the lagrangian submanifolds from the central panel on eulerian coordinate @xmath83 at the corresponding times .",
    "the information content of the phase - space and the lagrangian submanifold is similar but it is greater than that of the density field .",
    "singularities do exist neither in the phase space nor in the lagrangian submanifold , they emerge as a result of the projection to eulerian space only .",
    "the caustics are located at the points where the projecting direction is tangent to the phase - space curve or the lagrangian submanifold .",
    "all geometrical features just described are similar in two and three dimensions .",
    "the major difficulty is due to complexity of projection the lagrangian submanifolds from four- or six - dimentional spaces to two- or three - dimentional eulerian spaces respectively . as a result",
    "the number of archetypical singularities increases with the growth of the number of dimensions .",
    "singularities are in the space of @xmath86 and @xmath87 each others mirrors .",
    "this illustration shows why topologically there must always be as many @xmath79 as @xmath88 singularities.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]        the small loops near @xmath79 singularities form a salient feature in our results . in this appendix",
    "we show how this result can be understood in terms of the higher order @xmath70 catastrophe .",
    "the @xmath70 catastrophe in 3-d marks the transition from a @xmath79 to @xmath88 catastrophe . as we mentioned",
    "before the @xmath68 singularity is a location where both eigenvalues are equal , and we derived the following equation from the deformation tensor @xmath21 , that if @xmath89 , then @xmath90 to determine the type we had to look at the higher derivatives of the potential .    formally",
    "the amount of @xmath88 and @xmath79 singularities are exactly equal .",
    "this can be seen from the topology of the method by which we find them .",
    "the two fields @xmath91 and @xmath92 are gaussian and uncorrelated .",
    "the zero - levelset is the boundary between regions that are negative and positive .",
    "a point where both fields are zero exists then in two kinds , illustrated in figure [ fig : d4geom ] . in practice , some of these points have a corresponding eigenvalue that is negative , so these points are not considered in our figures .    a @xmath70 singularity corresponds to the situation where the zero - sets of @xmath93 and @xmath94 touch exactly . in general this",
    "never happens , however the probability that a @xmath68 point is _ close _ to that , is very high .",
    "this means that the global geometry of a @xmath79 tends to look a lot like that of a @xmath70 singularity .",
    "if we now look at figure [ fig : d5 ] , we can see what a geometry close to a @xmath70 looks like . in the first of the three images ,",
    "if we take an intersection and move it from right to left , we start with a single cusp .",
    "this cusp is then joined by two swallowtails , to form a triangle of cusps .",
    "this triangle contracts to a @xmath79 , and then expands again as a triangle of cusps in the second eigenvalue . by the same recipe we can approach the @xmath88 catastrophe , seen in the right - most panel in figure [ fig : d5 ] .",
    "we start out with an @xmath59-cusp .",
    "this cusp is joined by a @xmath26-pancake , which is soon thereafter pierced by the @xmath59-cusp .",
    "the cusp `` changes colour '' and through the @xmath88 becomes a @xmath26-cusp .",
    "both these scenarios are frequently encountered in the za , even if they do nt result in an eventual @xmath68 singularity , as is evident from figures [ fig : alphaa3 m ] , [ fig : a4 ] , [ fig : a4connectivity ] , [ fig : d4purse ] and [ fig : d4pyramid ] ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe how the dynamics of cosmic structure formation defines the intricate geometric structure of the spine of the cosmic web . </S>",
    "<S> the zeldovich approximation is used to model the backbone of the cosmic web in terms of its singularity structure . </S>",
    "<S> the description by arnold et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 1982 ) in terms of catastrophe theory forms the basis of our analysis . + </S>",
    "<S> this two - dimensional analysis involves a profound assessment of the lagrangian and eulerian projections of the gravitationally evolving four - dimensional phase - space manifold . </S>",
    "<S> it involves the identification of the complete family of singularity classes , and the corresponding caustics that we see emerging as structure in eulerian space evolves . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , as it is instrumental in outlining the spatial network of the cosmic web , we investigate the nature of spatial connections between these singularities . </S>",
    "<S> + the major finding of our study is that all singularities are located on a set of lines in lagrangian space . </S>",
    "<S> all dynamical processes related to the caustics are concentrated near these lines . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate and discuss extensively how all 2d singularities are to be found on these lines . when mapping this spatial pattern of lines to eulerian space , we find a growing connectedness between initially disjoint lines , resulting in a percolating network . in other words , </S>",
    "<S> the lines form the blueprint for the global geometric evolution of the cosmic web .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    cosmology : theory , dark matter , large - scale structure , methods : analytical , numerical </S>"
  ]
}