{
  "article_text": [
    "ss  433 is the only known supercritical accretor in our galaxy .",
    "this object is a massive eclipsing close binary system with an orbital period of 13.1 days ( for a review , see * ? ? ?",
    "the donor star overfills its critical roche lobe and transfers mass to the relativistic component ( very likely a black hole ) on the thermal time scale ; the mass transfer rate from the donor to the accretion disk is @xmath2 @xmath3 .",
    "the ultraluminous x - ray sources @xcite observed in external galaxies can be other examples of supercritical accretion disks .",
    "it is very likely that these objects are supercritical accretors like ss  433 @xcite , but their orientation is such that an observer can see the bottom of the supercritical disk funnel .",
    "supercritical accretion is probably a necessary element for the growth of supermassive black holes @xcite at early stages of the increase in quasar mass .",
    "the supercritical regime can be of fundamental importance not only for the black hole growth efficiency but also for the feedback on the galaxies and the formation of galaxies and clusters of galaxies via jets and winds . given the importance of these processes , detailed studies of ss  433 and the structure of gas flows in this system are needed , because no other bright and close examples of supercritical accretion disks have been found .    despite the large number of studies devoted to ss 433 ,",
    "the mass of the relativistic star in this system has not been measured reliably ; the spread in mass determinations for the compact object is from 2 to 15  ( see @xcite ; see , however , @xcite ) .",
    "the system s luminosity has been measured much more reliably @xcite , @xmath4erg @xmath0 with its peak in the ultraviolet . since the observed luminosity would be too high for a neutron star , a black hole with a supercritical accretion disk is believed to be in ss 433 . for a black hole with a mass of @xmath5 ,",
    "the rate of gas accretion into the disk of ss  433 roughly corresponds to 300500 eddington accretion rates .",
    "the main energy release in ss  433 is accounted for by the relativistic component or , more precisely , its supercritical accretion disk .",
    "the observational manifestations of this system are completely determined by the disk orientation .",
    "almost all of the accretion energy must be released in the hard x - ray range , but the x - ray luminosity of ss  433 ( @xmath6erg @xmath0 ) is much lower than the bolometric one .",
    "the initial hard x - ray emission is thermalized in a powerful wind outlowing from the inner regions of the supercritical disk .",
    "the apparent size of the wind photosphere for an observer is @xmath7 cm .",
    "the system s orientation is such that we can not see the funnel base even at the times of best funnel visibility during the precessional motion of the disk .",
    "if the funnel bottom were seen , then ss  433 would probably be the most luminous x - ray source in the galaxy with @xmath8 .",
    "an increase in the x - ray luminosity is predicted through the geometric collimation of emission by the supercritical disk funnel    ss 433 has precessing relativistic jets moving with a constant velocity @xmath9 that are formed in the funnel of the supercritical accretion disk and closely follow the disk and funnel orientation .",
    "the so - called `` moving '' or `` relativistic '' hydrogen and  lines are formed in the jets ; these emission lines move over the spectrum in accordance with the orientation of the jets relative to the observer .",
    "the spectrum of ss  433 exhibits weak absorption lines from which the orbital motion of the donor star was measured @xcite .",
    "however , the extended gaseous envelope that outlows from the donor but is no longer gravitationally bound to it may make a noticeable contribution in the absorption line . even at the times of the deepest ( `` total '' )",
    "eclipses of the accretion disk by the donor , the contribution from the supercritical disk to the total brightness of the system is larger than the contribution from the donor @xcite . according to this contribution , the extended envelope of the donor will distort signiicantly the donor s absorption lines .",
    "the brightest emission lines in ss  433 are the hydrogen ones that originate in the wind outflowing from the accretion disk and in the gas lost by the system through the lagrangian point behind the disk @xcite .",
    "the  and feii emission lines originate in the same medium .",
    "all these lines show orbital motion with different amplitudes and with a phase lag relative to the instantaneous position of the accretion disk @xcite . for this reason ,",
    "it is difficult to measure the system s mass using these lines .    the only line that reflects the motion of the relativistic component ( in fact , the wind that is formed in the disk ) is the  line ; it was used to measure the system s mass function @xcite .",
    "the width of the  line is km @xmath0 ; obviously , it is formed in the hottest part of the wind , possibly closer to the disk axis .",
    "the orbital radial velocity curve depends on the precessional phase , i.e. , on the disk inclination to the line of sight . knowing the behavior of this line is very important for understanding the reliability of measuring the masses .    here",
    ", we investigate the heii line profile based on our and archival best - quality spectra and find a new component in the profile of this line that we call a `` superbroad '' component ( sbc ) .",
    "we find the same components in the he i and hydrogen lines .",
    "we investigate the behavior of these components using the h@xmath10 and hei@xmath11 lines as an example . in the final part of the paper , we discuss the interpretation of the sbcs in these lines .",
    "our observational material consist of 44 optical spectra for ss  433 taken with different telescopes from 2003 to 2007 .",
    "all spectra are only of good quality ; these are the total spectra obtained during a single night .",
    "the dates of our spectroscopic observations , the precession and orbital phases , and the telescopes / instruments are given in table  [ tab:1 ] .    in 2003 ,",
    "observations were carried out at the 6-m bta telescope with the uags spectrograph @xcite ; the spectral resolution was 4   .",
    "at the same telescope but with the scorpio spectrograph @xcite , spectra were taken in 20042007 ; the spectral resolution was 2 ( 2004 ) , 2.53 ( 2005 , 2006 ) , and @xmath12     ( 2007 ) . in october 2007 ,",
    "simultaneously with bta , spectroscopy for ss  433 was performed at the subaru telescope with the focas spectrograph @xcite ; the spectral resolution was 1.5   .",
    "our spectra were supplemented with archival data .",
    "these are the 2004 spectra from the 4.2-m wht telescope taken with the isis spectrograph @xcite with a resolution of 0.7   . here , we selected a continuous set of observations consisting of six nights that covers the precessional phases when the line of sight was in the disk plane .",
    "we also used the archival data obtained in 2006 at the 8-m gemini - north telescope with the gmos spectrograph @xcite ; the spectral resolution in these data was @xmath13   .",
    "the difference in the spectral resolution of our data does not affect the identification and analysis of sbcs in the line profiles .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     *",
    "the width of the separate  line is @xmath14    in the quiescent state and @xmath15    in the active state .",
    "we found no noticeable changes in the widths of the sbcs in these lines with orbital or precessional phase .",
    "table  [ tab:2 ] gives the mean sbc widths for a precessional phase @xmath16 . in the crossover ,",
    "the widths of the  +  and  sbcs increase insignificantly , by 7 and 10% , respectively ; the width of the sbc in  remains unchanged .",
    "it follows from table  [ tab:2 ] that during the active state of ss  433 , the sbc of both the bowen blend and the separate  line narrows , while the sbc of  broadens . in the active state ,",
    "the data only from gemini ( 2006 ) are presented .",
    "the width of the sum of the  line and the  blend may not change greatly , because its value is determined mainly by the separation between these two lines .",
    "we also provide the width of the separate  line .",
    "however , it should be kept in mind that the error in the fwhm of this line from the blend can be significant .",
    "we propose that the sbcs of the  +  and  lines are similar in origin , because their behavior is in many respects similar .",
    "these components can be formed in the high - velocity wind from the supercritical disk of ss  433 .",
    "the opening angle of the wind funnel can be such that the width of the line sbc will be weakly sensitive to a change in disk precessional phase .",
    "the sbcs of these lines are formed in the same place where the optical emission originates : they are eclipsed by the donor .",
    "the absence of eclipses at edge - on disk precessional phases is also understandable : the outer edge of the funnel in the wind covers the inner parts of the funnel .",
    "the sbc formation region is located in the funnel of the wind from the supercritical disk .",
    "the asymmetric profile of the he i sbc can be a pcyg profile in the wind from the supercritical disk .",
    "below , we will consider the model for the sbc formation in the and  lines in more detail .",
    "the sbcs in  and the helium lines differ in many respects .",
    "the sbc of  exhibits no eclipses , and it has a relatively symmetric profile . the sbc width in  is comparable to that in the  line , but the sbc profile in the latter is significantly asymmetric .",
    "below , we will check whether the sbc of can be formed through the scattering of radiation by free electrons .",
    "if the typical width of the sbcs in the  and  lines is taken to be fwhm  @xmath17@xmath18 km @xmath0 , then we will find that for the sbcs to be formed in the disk , its characteristic size must be @xmath19 cm , which is smaller than the size of the donor in ss  433 by tens of times .",
    "such an accretion disk must be completely covered by the donor in less than half an hour . on the contrary , fairly long and extended eclipses of the  sbc formation region are observed . because of the powerful outflow , the photospheric radius of the donor star is greater than the radius of its critical surface @xcite .",
    "therefore , the sbcs of the helium lines can not be formed in the accretion disk .",
    "the sbc of  can not be formed in the disk either , because we observe no eclipses of this component by the donor star .",
    "the sbcs of our lines can not be formed in the circumbinary ring that most likely exists around the system @xcite either .",
    "the virial velocities of such a ring are an order of magnitude lower than those we observe in the sbcs .",
    "the sbc of  must be formed in fairly extended region lest orbital eclipses be observed in it .",
    "in addition , the width of this component does not depend on precessional nodding in the system .",
    "the model of sbc formation in  as a result of scattering looks most plausible .",
    "the mean equivalent width of  is @xmath20 , while the equivalent width of its sbc is   ( fig .",
    "[ fig : hb_07 ] and table  2 ) .",
    "a small optical depth ( approximately equal to the ratio of the equivalent widths of the sbc and the line ) , @xmath21 , is sufficient for the formation of such a weak sbc .",
    "the line broadening effect arises when photons from the  recombination line are scattered by free electrons . in this case",
    ", the optical depth of the medium in  must be greater than unity .",
    "generally , the line broadening effect due to electron scattering is significant at high photon energies ( x - ray lines ) and high electron temperatures .",
    "however , it is observed in the optical spectra of luminous blue variables ( lbvs ) and hot supergiants ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in the case of optical lines ,",
    "the relativistic corrections are of no importance , and the electron scattering is always thomson one : @xmath22 .    the line profile resulting from a single scattering of monochromatic radiation is determined by the redistribution function .",
    "the redistribution function is specified as the probability of a photon with frequency @xmath23 and direction @xmath24 to have frequency @xmath25 and direction @xmath26 after its scattering .",
    "for the isotropic problem and the maxwellian distribution of electrons , the redistribution function was found with a high accuracy by @xcite .",
    "for the optical  line , it will suffice to use the redistribution function of the zeroth order of accuracy that describes the doppler broadening ( see also * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "figure  [ scat_prof ] presents our calculation of single scatterings of the monochromatic  line for various electron temperatures of the gas ( 1 , 2 , and 3  ev ) .",
    "the profile has broad wings , and the profile wings become broader with increasing electron temperature . since the redistribution function is normalized to unity , the energy in the line before and after scattering is the same .",
    "since the optical depth for scattering is small , scattering can not change significantly the shape of the  profile . to model the  profile , we chose the real profile of this line and represented it as three gaussian components with fwhm from 200 to 400 km @xmath0 ( fig .",
    "[ hb_model_v2bw ] ) , so that to describe best the central part of the profile . in this way",
    ", we obtained the model profile before scattering .",
    "subsequently , we scattered a fraction @xmath27 of photons from this model profile ( in accordance with the optical depth @xmath27 ) .",
    "figure  [ hb_model_v2bw ] shows an example for the observation at an orbital phase of 0.97 . minimizing the residuals by the least - squares method , we found the probable domain of parameters : @xmath28@xmath29  kk and thomson optical depth @xmath30@xmath31 .",
    "it follows from fig .",
    "[ hb_model_v2bw ] that the red wing of the sbc disagrees with the observed one . in the simple model of isotropic electron scattering ,",
    "the line wings are always symmetric .",
    "an asymmetric sbc profile can be obtained if the region where scattering occurs moves . in particular , motion with a velocity from @xmath32 to @xmath33 km",
    "@xmath0 is needed to reconcile the sbc profiles in fig .",
    "[ hb_model_v2bw ] . as a rule , the emission lines in the spectrum of ss  433 consist of 34 components ( figs .",
    "[ fig : heii_07][fig : hb_07 ] ) shifted relative to one another by 300400 km @xmath0 .",
    "if the parameters @xmath34 and @xmath27 will be slightly different in different components of the profile , then the asymmetric sbc profiles can also be explained .",
    "besides , anisotropic scattering could also be responsible for the asymmetry in the observed profile . in view of the complexity of the gas flows in the system , we can not concretize the scattering model . here , it is important that electron scattering may well explain the sbc in .",
    "in contrast to , the sbcs of the  +  and lines show distinct eclipses by the donor star at the precessional phases of the maximally open disk and eclipses by the outer edge of the disk ( wind ) at edge - on disk precessional phases .",
    "as has been mentioned above , this means that the helium line sbc formation region is located in the same place where the bright optical continuum source is , in the wind funnel of the supercritical disk .",
    "above , we have concluded that the sbcs of and are similar in nature .",
    "the red wings of the sbcs in these lines are identical , while the blue wing of the first line is distorted by the bowen blend ; in the blue wing of the second line , the self - absorption is observed ( which also argues for the doppler broadening of the sbcs in these lines ) .",
    "we propose that the sbcs of the  and  lines are formed in the high - velocity regions of the wind from the disk of ss  433 .",
    "below , we calculate the  line profile within the model of a wind from a supercritical accretion disk . our goal is to show that both the emergence of a sbc with a width up to @xmath35    and the formation of relatively narrow components in the profile with a width of several hundred km @xmath0 are possible in this model .    as a result of the high accretion rate in ss  433 ,",
    "@xmath3 , much of the infalling material is ejected from the system through radiation pressure in the inner parts of the supercritical disk .",
    "our model is based on the concept of supercritical disks by @xcite , according to which the accretion rate in the disk within the spherization radius @xmath36 cm is @xmath37 , where @xmath38 is the mass of the compact object , and @xmath39 is the eddington luminosity .",
    "allowance for the advection of radiation in the disk within the spherization radius @xcite does not change the outflow pattern fundamentally .",
    "the velocity of the wind outflowing within the spherization radius is approximately equal to the virial one at this radius .",
    "part of the outflowing gas from the innermost regions is collimated and observed in the form of relativistic jets from ss  433 .",
    "the brightest hydrogen and helium emission lines are formed in the relatively slow wind ( a few thousand km @xmath0 ) .",
    "the photosphere of this wind has a characteristic size @xmath40 cm ; the temperature of the photosphere is @xmath41k @xcite . if the sbc formation region is projected onto the hot photosphere ( for example , the far wall of the wind funnel ) , then a pcyg profile , i.e. , a red asymmetry of the profile , can arise , which we observe for the sbc of the  line .",
    "we use the @xcite approximation to construct the model line profile , because the velocity gradients in the wind exceed considerably the width of the thermal profile .",
    "a simple wind geometry is specified in the model ; the wind is bounded by two spherical sectors .",
    "the wind funnel opening angle and the funnel wall thickness are model parameters ( fig .  [ model ] ) .",
    "we calculated the wind in a region with a radius of @xmath42 cm , which roughly corresponds to the system s size . in the plane of the sky , the region",
    "was broken down into 100 in _",
    "y _ and 200 in _ z _ ( the jet axis ) cells , with the radiation conditions being homogeneous in each of them",
    ". the funnel opening angle ( fig .  [ model ] ) @xmath43 and the wall opening angle @xmath44 are model parameters .",
    "other parameters are the gas ejection velocity within the spherization radius ( the parameter @xmath45 in the virial velocity @xmath46 ) , the exponent in the dependence of the gas emissivity in the line on radius @xmath47 , the exponent of the emissivity in its dependence on polar angle @xmath48 ( the funnel wall heating efficiency ) , and the radial velocity semiamplitudes of the compact object and the donor @xmath49 and @xmath50 . the thin accretion disk ( at @xmath51 ) is also shown in fig .  [ model ] , the disk size",
    "was calculated @xcite from the mass ratio @xmath52 .",
    "individual portions of gas were distributed over the domain of monte - carlo computation ; we used @xmath53 points in the model . to calculate the line profile , we summed the radiation from all the wind portions visible to an observer ; the line profile",
    "was then convolved with a thermal profile of width fwhm@xmath54 km @xmath0 .",
    "individual parts of the wind in the model are eclipsed by the donor star , the accretion disk , and the photosphere of the wind itself ; the eclipsed regions are determined by the precessional and orbital phases .",
    "these phases also determine the location of the wind photosphere that we calculate by integrating the optical depth for thomson scattering to @xmath55 from infinity along the line of sight .",
    "the shape of the photosphere can be complex .",
    "the wind region on the line of sight located between the photosphere and observer is assumed to be visible .",
    "we computed two wind models .",
    "in the first model ( the model with mixing ) , the entire wind outflowing within the spherization radius is averaged over the momenta , being still deep in the funnel under the wind photosphere .",
    "the wind velocity at this radius is everywhere the same ; the observer sees different radial velocities due to different projections onto the line of sight . in the second model ( the ballistic model ) , all portions of gas move without any interaction along their trajectories .",
    "having begun its motion from radius @xmath56 with an initial velocity @xmath46 , the gas moves only in the gravity field of the compact object .",
    "the two models are two extreme cases of outward wind propagation . on the one hand , we fail to obtain outflow velocities appreciably higher than @xmath57 km @xmath0 in the model with mixing and with the known accretion rate in ss  433 ; on the other hand , it is obvious that there must be an interaction of the winds within the spherization radius in the supercritical disk funnel",
    ". the gas outflow pattern can be very complex .",
    "nevertheless , these two simple models explain the main trends in the  line profile .",
    "our model is not self - consistent , but it may well simulate the shakura - sunyaev supercritical disk .    in fig .",
    "[ mixmodel ] , the model  profiles constructed in the model with mixing are compared with the observations . the orbital and precessional phases in the model correspond to the real ones .",
    "the sbcs in the `` observed ''",
    "profiles are the gaussian fits of these components that were added to the real profiles ( with the subtracted sbc ) from fig .",
    "[ fig : heii_07 ] .",
    "the model with mixing can reproduce neither the broad components nor the sbcs .",
    "however , it reproduces well the narrow components originating in the wind .",
    "the pattern of asymmetry in the profile of this line ( at the phases of the maximally open disk before , during , and after an eclipse by the donor ) shown in the figure is typical of ss  433 .",
    "our model does reproduce the typical evolution of the  profile .",
    "the model parameters with which the observed profiles are described best ( fig .  [ mixmodel ] ) are the following : the exponents in the dependences of the gas emissivity on distance and polar angle are @xmath58@xmath59 and @xmath60 , respectively , the funnel opening angle is @xmath61 , and the wall opening angle is @xmath62 .",
    "we estimate these parameters as approximate ones . investigating",
    "the  profile is not among the goals of this paper ; we are planning to do this in the next paper . here",
    ", we describe the sbcs of the line profiles .",
    "figure  [ comp ] shows the two model profiles obtained in the approximation with mixing and in the ballistic approximation .",
    "a sbc appears in the latter case ; consequently , we can explain this component in the ballistic approximation .",
    "note that we can not accurately reconstruct the blue wing of the sbc , because the  blend is in close proximity .",
    "none of our models can explain the broad components ( figs .",
    "[ fig : heii_07][fig : hb_07 ] and [ mixmodel ] ) .",
    "in fact , both our approximations are extreme cases",
    ". the interaction of the winds in the supercritical disk funnel may well give rise to intermediate - width components .",
    "above , we put forward the arguments that the sbcs of the helium lines are formed through a velocity spread in the wind , and that this component in  is formed through electron scattering . indeed ,",
    "the helium and hydrogen line formation regions are different ; the former are eclipsed by the donor .",
    "the sbc in  has a very large red asymmetry that is difficult to explain by electron scattering . in ,",
    "we reliably detect only the red wing of the sbc ; this component might be symmetric .",
    "all that we know about the formation geometry of the  and  lines is that they are emitted in the wind from the supercritical disk , and the formation region of the former line is considerably smaller than that of the latter one .",
    "for this reason , the optical depth for electron scattering for the  line must be smaller than that for ; recall that the optical depth for electron scattering found by modeling the sbc of  is about 0.250.35 .",
    "an additional factor affecting the role of electron scattering in the formation of the  and  profiles is the optical depth in these lines .",
    "scattering in a line increases the effective photon path in the scattering region , `` tangling '' the photon escape trajectory .    according to @xcite ,",
    "most of the photons from a spectral line will undergo at least one scattering by free electrons if the following condition is met : @xmath63^{-1},\\ ] ] here , @xmath27 is the optical depth for scattering the line photons by free electrons , and @xmath64 is the optical depth in the line . if , alternatively , the reverse condition is met , then the line photons , on average , undergo less than one but more than @xmath27 scatterings by electrons .    the optical depth in a line is defined as @xmath65 , where @xmath66 is the number density of the ions corresponding to the transition , @xmath67 is the absorption cross section that for the line center is @xmath68 here , @xmath69 is the oscillator strength of the transition under consideration , @xmath70 is the doppler width of the line . for the @xmath71 transition in the hydrogen atom , @xmath72 , while for the @xmath73 transition in , @xmath74 ( the atomdb database ; @xcite ) . at the same temperature",
    ", we find @xmath75 .",
    "let us compare the optical depths in the and  lines by assuming their formation regions to be identical .",
    "at a mass loss rate in the wind from ss  433 @xmath76m@xmath77 @xmath3 , an outflow velocity of @xmath57 km @xmath0 , and distances of @xmath78 cm , the particle number density in the wind can be @xmath79@xmath80 .",
    "estimating the number of particles corresponding to the transitions in these lines in the saha - boltzmann approximation , we find that the condition @xmath81 is met at temperatures @xmath82@xmath83  k. since  is emitted in a much more extended region and at lower temperatures , the appearance of scattered components in this line is much more probable than in the  line .",
    "we detected new components in the profiles of main stationary lines for ss  433 ( the hydrogen , ,  lines and the bowen  blend ) and investigated these components in the , , and  emission lines .",
    "sbcs are recorded with confidence in the profiles of the brightest lines .",
    "they are low - contrast substrates with a width of 20002500 km @xmath0 in  and  and 40005000 km @xmath0 in  that are considerably broader than the lines themselves .",
    "it is unlikely that the sbcs will affect the accuracy of measuring the radial velocities of the lines in ss  433 because of their large width .",
    "we found that the sbcs of the  and lines are eclipsed by the donor star .",
    "the behavior of the sbc eclipse depth for these lines as a function of the disk inclination to the line of sight ( precessional phase ) turned out to be similar in main features to the behavior of the optical brightness of ss  433 .",
    "the same component in  shows no variability with precessional phase and has no orbital eclipses .",
    "this leads us to conclude that the sbcs of the helium and hydrogen lines are different in origin .",
    "since the sbc of the hei@xmath84 emission line has a distinctly asymmetric pcyg profile , electron scattering can not be responsible for the appearance of the sbcs in the helium lines .    in the case of ,",
    "the most probable mechanism for the formation of this component is the line broadening through electron scattering .",
    "we described a simple model of the  formation region that is extended enough for the eclipses to be unobservable .",
    "we found that the gas in this region with a temperature  kk ( rather closer to the low border ) and an optical depth for thomson scattering @xmath30@xmath31 reproduces well the sbc width and intensity in .",
    "the sbcs of the helium lines are formed in the high - velocity gas of ss  433 .",
    "we used the model of supercritical disk accretion proposed by @xcite , whose main component is the presence of a powerful wind from the accretion disk within the spherization radius .",
    "we computed a model of the wind from the supercritical disk that corresponds in main features to the shakura - sunyaev approximation .",
    "the main patterns of the  line profiles are well reproduced in this model .",
    "we can explain not only the appearance of the sbcs but also the evolution of the central two - component part of the profile of this line during its eclipse by the donor star .    our model may well be used to analyze the profiles of the lines in ss  433 originating in the supercritical disk , but this requires spectroscopic observations with a resolution of at least @xmath85 .",
    "we leave a more detailed study of the behavior of the heii@xmath86 line using our model for the next paper .",
    "we wish to thank s.  yu .",
    "sazonov for helpful discussions .",
    "we used archival data from the 4.2-m william herschel telescope ( wht ) of the isaac newton group ( ing ) at the observatorio del roque de los muchachos .",
    "this work was supported by the russian foundation for basic research ( project n10020046 ) , the program for support of leading scientific schools of russia ( n4308.2012.2 ) , and the ministry of education and science of russia ( n8406 , 8416 ) .",
    "90 g. abell and b. margon , nature 279 , 701 ( 1979 ) .",
    "v. l. afanasiev and a. v. moiseev , astron .",
    "lett . 31 , 194 ( 2005 ) .",
    "k. blundell , m. bowler , and l. schmidtobreick , astrophys .",
    "j. 678 , l47 ( 2008 ) .",
    "m. bowler , astron .",
    "516 , a24 ( 2010 ) .",
    "m. bowler , astron .",
    "531 , a107 ( 2011 ) .",
    "a. cherepashchuk , space sci .",
    "102 , 23 ( 2002 ) .",
    "a. cherepashchuk , r. sunyaev , s. fabrika , et al .",
    "437 , 561 ( 2005 ) .",
    "r. clegg , gemini 31 , 8 ( 1991 ) .",
    "d. crampton and j. hutchings , astrophys .",
    "j. 251 , 604 ( 1981 ) .",
    "m. a. dopita and a. m. cherepashchuk , vistas astron .",
    "25 , 51 ( 1981 ) .",
    "s. eikenberry , p. cameron , b. fierce , et al .",
    ", astrophys .",
    "j. 561 , 1027 ( 2001 ) .",
    "s. fabrika , mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "soc . 261 , 241 ( 1993 ) .",
    "s. fabrika and l. bychkova , astron .",
    "240 , l5 ( 1990 ) .",
    "s. fabrika and t. irsmambetova , in _",
    "new views on microquasars , proceedings of the 4th microquasars workshop _",
    "( institut detudes scientifiques de cargese , corsica , france , 2003 ) , p. 276 . s. fabrika , astrophys .",
    "space phys . rev .",
    "12 , 1 ( 2004 ) .",
    "s. fabrika and a. mescheryakov , in _ galaxies and their constituents at the highest angular resolutions , proceedings of the iau symposium no .",
    "205 , manchester , uk , aug . 1518 , 2000 _ ed . by r.",
    "t. schilizzi ( iau , 2001 ) , p. 268 .",
    "s. fabrika and o. sholukhova , in proceedings of the 7th microquasar workshop : microquasars and beyond , foca , izmir , turkey , sep .",
    "1?5 ( 2008 ) , p. 52",
    "h. feng and r. soria , new astron .",
    "55 , 166 ( 2011 ) .",
    "a. filippenko , r. romani , w. sargent , et al .",
    "j. 216 , 822 ( 1988 ) .",
    "e. filippova , m. revnivtsev , s. fabrika , et al .",
    "460 , 125 ( 2006 ) .",
    "a. foster , l. ji , r. smith , et al .",
    ", astrophys .",
    "j. 756 , 128 ( 2012 ) .",
    "d. r. gies , w. huang , and m. v. mcswain , astrophys .",
    "j. 578 , l67 ( 2002 ) .",
    "v. goranskij , perem .",
    "zvezdy 31 , 5 ( 2011 ) .",
    "v. goranskij , v. esipov , and a. cherepashchuk , sov .",
    "42 , 209 ( 1998 ) .",
    "t. hillwig and d.gies , astrophys .",
    "j. 676 , l37 ( 2008 ) .",
    "t. hillwig , d. gies , w. huang , et al .",
    ", astrophys .",
    "j. 615 , 422 ( 2004 ) .",
    "d. hummer and d. mihalas , astrophys .",
    "j. 150 , l57 ( 1967 ) .",
    "r. humphreys et al . , astrophys .",
    "j. 743 , 118 ( 2011 ) .",
    "j. kallrath and e. f. milone,_eclipse binary system : modeling and analysis _ ( springer , new york , 1999 ) .",
    "i. m. kopylov , l. v. bychkova , s. n. fabrika , et al .",
    "15 , 474 ( 1989 ) .",
    "k. kubota , y. ueda , s. fabrika , et al .",
    ", astrophys . j. 709 , 1374 ( 2010 ) .",
    "e. m. leibowitz , mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "soc . 210 , 279 ( 1984 ) . g. v. lipunova , astron .",
    "25 , 508 ( 1999 ) .",
    "a. panferov , s. fabrika , and v. rakhimov , astron .",
    "41 , 342 ( 1997 ) .",
    "s. perez and k. blundell , mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "408 , 2 ( 2010 ) .",
    "j. poutanen , g. lipunova , s. fabrika , et al . ,",
    "mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "377 , 1187 ( 2007 ) .",
    "l. pozdnyakov , i. sobol , and r. syunyaev , astrophys .",
    "space phys .",
    "rev . 2 , 189 ( 1983 ) .",
    "s. sazonov and r. sunyaev , astrophys .",
    "j. 543 , 28 ( 2000 ) .",
    "n. shakura and r. sunyaev , astron .",
    "24 , 337 ( 1973 ) .",
    "o. n. sholukhova , s. n. fabrika , a. v. zharova , et al . , astrophys bull .",
    "66 , 123 ( 2011 ) .",
    "v. sobolev , sov .",
    "astron . 1 , 678 ( 1957 ) . m. volonteri and m. rees , astrophys .",
    "j. 633 , 624 ( 2005 ) .",
    "r. warmels , asp conf .",
    "25 , 115 ( 1992 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have detected new components in stationary emission lines of ss 433 ; these are the superbroad components that are low - contrast substrates with a width of 20002500 km @xmath0 in  and  and 40005000 km @xmath0 in . based on 44 spectra taken during four years of observations from 2003 to 2007 </S>",
    "<S> , we have found that these components in the  and  lines are eclipsed by the donor star ; their behavior with precessional and orbital phases is regular and similar to the behavior of the optical brightness of ss 433 . </S>",
    "<S> the same component in  shows neither eclipses nor precessional variability . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the superbroad components in the helium and hydrogen lines are different in origin . </S>",
    "<S> electron scattering is shown to reproduce well the superbroad component of  at a gas temperature of 2035 kk and an optical depth for thomson scattering @xmath1 0.250.35 . </S>",
    "<S> the superbroad components of the helium lines are probably formed in the wind from the supercritical accretion disk . </S>",
    "<S> we have computed a wind model based on the concept of shakura - sunyaev supercritical disk accretion . </S>",
    "<S> the main patterns of the  line profiles are well reproduced in this model : not only the appearance of the superbroad component but also the evolution of the central two - component part of the profile of this line during its eclipse by the donor star can be explained .    </S>",
    "<S> [ 843 ] </S>"
  ]
}