{
  "article_text": [
    "there is a growing acceptance that active galactic nuclei ( agn ) have played a fundamental role in the evolution of galaxies .",
    "this is mainly due to the discovery of strong correlations between the masses of the black holes ( bh ) which are thought to reside at the heart of all massive galaxies @xcite and many of the properties of the galaxy bulges ( e.g. @xcite ) . despite this",
    ", many unanswered questions still remain about how and when agn are triggered .",
    "it has been suggested that , in the case of powerful quasars , major mergers between gas rich galaxies are often the triggering mechanism @xcite .",
    "this is largely based on the idea that such gas - rich mergers are capable of providing the necessary torques to deliver large reservoirs of gas to the central kpc , where they might trigger quasar activity .",
    "such events would leave observable signatures in the form of double nuclei , tidal tails and other tidal features .",
    "observational studies aimed at detecting these features have provided some evidence for this merger driven scenario , with a high rate of detection ( up to 95% in powerful radio galaxies ) of tidal features associated with luminous agn host galaxies @xcite .",
    "notably , when compared with a sample of quiescent galaxies matched in redshift and absolute magnitude , both @xcite and @xcite find that the surface brightnesses of tidal features associated with the luminous agn are up to two magnitudes brighter , perhaps suggesting that these mergers are more recent or more gas rich .",
    "these studies also show that the quasar activity can be triggered in a variety of merger phases , including the pre - coalesence phase .",
    "quasar activity is not the only consequence of such merger events .",
    "simulations suggest that the cold gas injected into the nuclear region by the merger also provides the conditions for a massive burst of star formation @xcite .",
    "if , as simulations suggest , the triggering of these starbursts and the onset of agn activity are both the result of the same merger , then determination of the ages of starbursts in a large enough sample of agn host galaxies has the potential to allow us to understand the timing of the triggering of the agn , relative to the main merger event .",
    "thus , we can track the evolution of mergers from the initial first pass , through the triggering of the quasar activity , and on to the final coalescence of the bhs .    dating the stellar populations",
    "also allows us to test evolutionary scenarios , such as that put forward by @xcite , in which mergers between gas rich galaxies lead to ultra - luminous infrared galaxies ( ulirgs ) , where the ir luminosity is initially driven by rapid star formation . later in the merger , at the point of coalescence of the two bhs ,",
    "the agn begins to dominate the ir luminosity , eventually driving out its cocoon of dust and gas , and allowing it to become detectable in the optical ( e.g. @xcite ) . in this scenario",
    ", we would expect that the peak of star formation would occur while the agn is still deeply buried , and therefore , by the time the agn becomes visible in the optical , the stellar population would be detected as an ageing starburst of several 100 myr .",
    "although , as previously mentioned , morphological studies have already shown this scenario to be over simplistic , they provide little detailed information about the nature of the merger and the timing of the quasar relative to the merger - induced starburst .",
    "a number of studies focussed on characterising the stellar populations of agn host galaxies have detected relatively old post - starburst populations with ages 100 myr to a few gyr @xcite which , if we assume a quasar lifetime of 1  100 myr @xcite , implies a substantial delay between the merger - induced starburst and the quasar being triggered / becoming visible , others have found clear evidence of quasi - simultaneous triggering of the luminous quasar and starburst @xcite . therefore , the matter of whether luminous quasars are triggered at the peak of star formation in major , gas - rich mergers remains ambiguous .    in order to clarify the sequence and timing of the events surrounding the triggering of luminous agn",
    ", we have undertaken a campaign of optical spectroscopy of a sample of type ii quasars ( defined as having @xmath3 } > 10^{8.5 } l_{\\sun}$ ] , @xcite ) , for which a full morphological study , based on deep gemini gmos - s @xmath4 imaging , has already been presented in @xcite . here",
    "we present long - slit spectroscopic observations of one of the objects in our sample  j0025 - 10  which shows some remarkable properties that make it worthy of note in the context of the evolutionary scenarios described above .",
    "the spectra are used to determine the ages , reddening and masses of the stellar populations in the host galaxy .",
    "figure [ slit]shows that the j0025 - 10 host galaxy , at a redshift of z=0.303 , is undergoing a major merger event , with the two distinct nuclei at a projected separation of @xmath5 kpc @xcite , and a projected velocity shift of only @xmath6 km s@xmath7 @xcite between them .",
    "there are also two distinct tidal tails , the brighter of which is clearly visible curving to the north of the nucleus in figure [ slit ] .",
    "co measurements made by @xcite reinforce the idea that this is a gas rich merger , showing that j0025 - 10 contains a total of @xmath8 m@xmath9 of molecular gas in two reservoirs , with 60% in the central region and 40% associated with the northern tidal tail .",
    "they also determine that the system can be classified as a ( u)lirg with an infrared luminosity of @xmath10    throughout this paper , we assume a cosmology of @xmath11 km s@xmath7 mpc@xmath7 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 which gives a scale of 4.48 kpc arcsec@xmath7 as the redshift of this object .",
    "long - slit spectra were taken for j0025 - 10 on 30/11/2010 , in queue mode , using the gemini multi - object spectrograph ( gmos ) mounted on the 8.1 m gemini south telescope at cerro pachn , chile , as part of a larger gemini program , aimed at characterising the stellar populations of the host galaxies of type ii quasars ( bessiere et al .",
    "2013 , in prep ) . due to the absence of an atmospheric dispersion compensator on gmos - s ,",
    "the object was observed at low airmass ( @xmath14 ) in order to minimise the effects of differential refraction .",
    "our observations were taken at pa 230 degrees , in photometric conditions , with good seeing ( 0.8   fwhm ) and consist of @xmath15 s exposures using the b600 grating with 600 groves mm@xmath7 blazed at 461 nm , and @xmath16 s exposures using the r400 grating with 400 groves mm@xmath7 blazed at 764 nm .",
    "the exposures in the two wavelength ranges were interleaved in order to mitigate any changes in the atmospheric conditions throughout the observational run .",
    "the data were reduced using iraf and starlink figaro packages , following the standard steps of bias subtraction , flat fielding , wavelength calibration , flux calibration , and corrections for spatial distortions ; the useful observed wavelength range is 3940  9140  , although wavelengths longer than 8200   are strongly affected by fringes .",
    "accurate flux calibrations are essential when modelling stellar populations , therefore as part of our gemini program several standard stars were observed throughout the semester ( 2010b ) , allowing us to achieve a flux calibration accuracy of @xmath17 .",
    "there is also a large region of overlap between the red and blue parts of the spectra , allowing us to further check that the calibrations in the two parts matches well , and in this case there is less than a 1% difference in flux in the overlapping region .",
    "using a 1.5 arcsec slit , we achieved a spectral resolution of 7.2   in the blue and 11.4   in the red wavelength ranges .",
    "in addition to the spectroscopic data presented here , we also make use of deep gemini gmos - s @xmath4-band imaging data present in @xcite , which were reduced using the standard gemini gmos iraf packages .",
    "the @xmath4 magnitude of j0025 - 10 is @xmath18=18.40 mag , measured within a 30 kpc diameter aperture and corrected for galactic extinction , but with no k - correction applied .",
    "the analysis presented here is based on 1d spectra extracted from three different components of the system ( figure [ apertures ] ) , where each aperture covers a projected region of @xmath19 ( @xmath20 kpc ) .",
    "apertures q and g are centred on the nuclei of the quasar host galaxy and the merging companion galaxy respectively , whilst aperture t is centred on the tidal tail associated with the quasar host galaxy .",
    "the spectra have been corrected for galactic reddening ( e(b - v ) = 0.03 ) as derived from the dust map of @xcite using the extinction law of @xcite .",
    ".the h@xmath21h@xmath22 and h@xmath23h@xmath22 ratios measured in each of the three apertures , following subtraction of a continuum model .",
    "column one denotes which aperture the measurement applies to , columns two and three give the value of the h@xmath21h@xmath22 and h@xmath23h@xmath22 ratio respectively . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the results in table [ stellar_masses ] include only the flux contained within the 1.5 arcsec slit , which corresponds to an area of @xmath24 kpc@xmath25 per aperture in our assumed cosmology . in order to correct for this",
    ", we make use of our deep gmos - s @xmath4 imaging @xcite , from which we have determined a magnitude of @xmath26 , ( corrected for galactic extinction ) , within a 30 kpc aperture . from this",
    ", we find that 59% of the flux at the central wavelength of the @xmath27 filter is accounted for by the three apertures in the slit .    to calculate the total mass of the system we assume that starlight not accounted for by the apertures comprises the same mix of populations as apertures q , g and t , in turn , both for a minimum and maximum contribution from an osp .",
    "therefore , the minimum mass is derived by assuming the minimum osp contribution to the models for each aperture and assuming the same mix of stellar populations as in aperture g for the flux excluded from the slit .",
    "the maximum mass is determined by summing the masses found from the models assuming the largest possible contribution from an osp / isp , and that the flux excluded from the aperture can be modelled with the same mix of populations as aperture q. this leads to a total stellar mass for the system in the range @xmath28 which , if we adopt the mass function of @xcite ( @xmath29m@xmath9 ) , is around the characteristic mass ( @xmath30 ) .",
    "a number of previous studies of the host galaxies of both radio - loud and radio - quiet quasars have concluded that they tend to be hosted by massive elliptical galaxies . scaling the derived values to a kroupa imf for ease of comparison , @xcite and @xcite found median stellar masses of @xmath31 and @xmath32 respectively for radio - loud quasars .",
    "@xcite also derived masses for a sample of radio - quiet quasars finding a slightly lower median stellar mass of @xmath33 .",
    "our stellar mass calculations , which take into account the dominant contribution to the flux from the ysp , also show that j0025 - 10 will not evolve into a massive elliptical through _ this _ merger .",
    "in fact , the stellar mass derived for this system is consistent with the stellar masses derived for a sample of ulirgs in the local universe by @xcite ( median mass 0.5@xmath34 ) .",
    "the results presented above make it clear that in all three regions of j0025 - 10 a ysp of age @xmath0 myr with low reddening ( @xmath35 ) contributes a large proportion of the total flux .",
    "it is striking that we find similar ages and reddening for these ysps across the entire system , suggesting that j0025 - 10 is currently undergoing a galaxy - wide burst of star formation .",
    "this finding is interesting in the context of evolutionary scenarios , such as that of @xcite , in which galaxy mergers lead to ulirgs which then eventually become observable quasars .",
    "such models predict that , at the peak of star formation activity , associated with the time of the coalescence of the two bhs ( e.g. @xcite ) , we should observe a dust enshrouded system containing a highly reddened ysp ( i.e. a ulirg ) , in which any quasar activity that may have been triggered is too deeply embedded for us to detect directly .",
    "it is only with the onset of agn - related feedback processes , as the agn begins to dominate , that the gas and dust are removed , resulting in the quenching of star formation activity .",
    "thus , in the @xcite scenario , when the quasar becomes directly detectable , it should be hosted by a system in which the two nuclei have coalesced and also have an ageing starburst population .",
    "this predicted delay between the merger - induced starburst and visible agn activity has indeed been detected by some previous stellar population studies @xcite where delays of a few 100 myr to a few gyr have been found .",
    "however , this is clearly not the whole story as others @xcite find evidence that the starburst and agn activity have been triggered quasi - simultaneously .",
    "one of the primary reasons for these apparently discrepant results may be that the triggering mechanisms depends on agn luminosity .",
    "indeed , @xcite show that the vast majority of the objects in their sample of powerful radio galaxies that have quasar - like luminosities ( @xmath3 } > 10^{35}~w$ ] ) , display clear evidence of a significant contribution to their fluxes from ysps with ages @xmath36 gyr . on the other hand ,",
    "less luminous agn tend to show evidence for older ysp @xmath37 gyr @xcite .    taking this luminosity dependence into consideration , if we concentrate on the quasar - like objects with the best spectroscopic data on the stellar populations in the host galaxies @xcite , in general , ages @xmath38 gyr are typical in the nuclear regions of the host galaxies .",
    "one notable exception to this trend is the study of @xcite , where they find that , although 14/15 quasar host galaxies do have evidence for a significant ysp , they are older ( @xmath39 gyr ) than those found in the majority of other quasar - like systems .    when comparing the results of such modelling , it is important to note that the dating of stellar populations is , in most cases , complex and has many inherent degeneracies , making it difficult to find unique solutions .",
    "in fact , there are very few cases of quasar - like systems in which the stellar populations have been accurately dated . some of the few clear cut cases include the powerful radio galaxy 3c459 @xcite and the nearby quasar mrk 231 @xcite in which the populations are found to have ages @xmath38 gyr . in the latter case ,",
    "the findings are supported by the detection of he i absorption features which are associated with b - type stars @xcite which have a lifetime of 20  80 myr .",
    "the nearby type ii quasar mrk 447 @xcite is clearly identified as having a ysp with an age of @xmath40 myr , supported by the presence of uv absorption features such as si iii@xmath41 , which are attributed to the presence of late o and early b supergiants .",
    "thus , thanks to the quality and spectral range of the data , j0025 - 10 is included in a small group of objects in which the starburst population can be reliably dated , with the clear detection of the strong balmer absorption features , balmer break ( figure [ spectra ] ) , and the dominant contribution to the total flux by the ysp .",
    "we strongly emphasise that in the cases in which the stellar populations can be unambiguously fit , it is found that a significant proportion of the flux is attributable to a ysp @xmath38 gyr .    in light of this , it important to understand why studies such as @xcite find such markedly different results .",
    "one possible reason for this discrepancy is that the latter study does not take into account reddening of the ysp .",
    "although j0025 - 10 appears to be an exceptional case in which the ysp are unreddened , spectroscopic studies of the ysp in local radio galaxies and ulirgs emphasise the importance of taking into account reddening , especially for the youngest ysp components @xcite .",
    "failure to take into account the reddening may lead to the ages of the ysp being over estimated .",
    "alternatively , the discrepancy may be related to the fact that some of the studies of quasar - like systems concentrate on the near - nuclear bulge regions , whereas the study of canalizo & stockton considered apertures that are , by necessity , offset by several kpc from the bright quasar nuclei .",
    "however , in this context we note that some of the apertures that give young ysp ages in mrk231 and j0025 - 10 are also significantly offset from the agn nuclei .",
    "although j0025 - 10 is classified as a ulirg @xcite , this particular object displays a number of traits that are contradictory to the evolutionary view of @xcite . to begin with its two nuclei",
    "have not yet coalesced and are still separated by @xmath5 kpc . despite this , j0025 - 10 already hosts a luminous quasar , clearly detectable in the optical narrow lines , whilst at the same time hosting a massive ysp of @xmath0 myr .",
    "this strongly implies that the agn and star formation activity were triggered quasi - simultaneously .",
    "however , we can not rule out that at some future point , an even more intense period of star formation and bh accretion will occur .",
    "we further note that this system appears to have very little ( if any ) reddening affecting the ysp or narrow emission lines , a result supported by both continuum and emission line modelling . in other words",
    ", there is a lack of dust in the regions in which a significant proportion of the ysp currently reside .",
    "the obvious implication of this is that the dust in these regions has already been efficiently removed by some process , most likely outflows powered by the agn or starburst .",
    "if this is the case , then this process has been triggered earlier in the merger process than simulations have thus far suggested .",
    "however , assuming that the cool dust emitting the far - ir luminosity of the system ( which suggests a star formation rate of @xmath42 m@xmath9 yr@xmath7 ; @xcite ) is indeed heated by young stars , a substantial fraction of the star formation activity must remain enshrouded in dust , although we do not detect this population in our optical spectra .",
    "we have used gemini gmos - s long - slit data to determine the ages and masses of the stellar populations in apertures extracted from three distinct regions of this merging type ii quasar system .",
    "we have found the following .    1 .",
    "the quasar host galaxy component of the system is well fit with a combination of an unreddened 8 gyr population combined with a ysp of between 20 and 40 myr with reddenings in the range @xmath43 .",
    "the companion galaxy is well fit with an isp of 0.5 - 1 gyr with a ysp of between 6 and 10 myr ( taking into account the h@xmath22 line equivalent width ) and reddenings in the range @xmath44 .",
    "the north eastern tail component is well fit by an osp / isp and a ysp of 2040 myr with reddenings in the range @xmath44 .",
    "it is also well fit by an isp of 0.5 gyr with a ysp of 1 - 6 myr .",
    "though we can not discriminate by the quality of the fit alone , the measured equivalent width of the h@xmath22 line favours this latter combination .",
    "the total stellar mass of the system is @xmath45 m@xmath46 ( @xmath30 ) , which is lower than the stellar masses previously found for most quasar host galaxies .",
    "the young ages of the stellar populations in all three regions of j0025 - 10 probed by our high quality spectra , unambiguously demonstrate that the luminous quasar - like nucleus in j0025 - 10 has been triggered at around the same time as a major episode of star formation immediately prior to the coalescence of the nuclei in a gas - rich merger .",
    "the low reddening deduced for all three apertures using the ysp continuum and the narrow line emission measurements clearly indicate that , even at this early stage of the merger , outflows driven either by the agn or starburst have been effective in driving much of the dust and gas from the visible star formation regions .",
    "these results are fully consistent with the trend found by @xcite , that luminous quasars host starburst populations with @xmath47 gyr .",
    "pb acknowledges support in the form of an stfc ph.d .",
    "cra acknowledges the estallidos group through project pn aya2010 - 21887-c04.04 this work is based on observations obtained at the gemini observatory , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under a cooperative agreement with the nsf on behalf of the gemini partnership : the national science foundation ( united states ) , the science and technology facilities council ( united kingdom ) , the national research council ( canada),conicyt ( chile ) , the australian research council ( australia ) , ministrio da cincia , tecnologia e inovaao ( brazil ) and ministerio de ciencia , tecnologa e innovacin productiva argentina ) .",
    "the gemini programs under which the data were obtained are gs-2009b - q-87 and gs-2011b-q-42.this research has made use of the nasa/ ipac infrared science archive , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .                      s. , norberg p. , baugh c.  m. , frenk c.  s. , bland - hawthorn j. , bridges t. , cannon r. , colless m. , collins c. , couch w. , cross n. , dalton g. , de propris r. , driver s.  p. , efstathiou g. , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 255                k. , bender r. , bower g. , dressler a. , faber s.  m. , filippenko a.  v. , green r. , grillmair c. , ho l.  c. , kormendy j. , lauer t.  r. , magorrian j. , pinkney j. , richstone d. , tremaine s. , 2000 , apjl , 539 , l13                                                                        n.  l. , strauss m.  a. , krolik j.  h. , collinge m.  j. , hall p.  b. , hao l. , heckman t.  m. , ivezi  . , richards g.  t. , schlegel d.  j. , schneider d.  p. , strateva i. , vanden berk d.  e. , anderson s.  f. , brinkmann j. , 2003 , aj , 126 , 2125"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present deep , intermediate resolution , long slit gemini gmos - s optical spectra of the sdss type ii quasar j002531 - 104022 , which is a highly disturbed system currently undergoing a major merger event . </S>",
    "<S> we use these data to model the ages and reddenings of the stellar populations in three distinct spatial regions and find a remarkable uniformity in the properties of the young stellar populations ( ysp ) that dominate the optical spectra . </S>",
    "<S> the ysps are all found to have relatively young ages ( @xmath0 myr ) , strongly implying that the latest episode of star formation and quasar activity have been triggered quasi - simultaneously . </S>",
    "<S> the lack of reddening deduced from both continuum modelling and the measured balmer decrements ( e(b - v)@xmath1 ) suggests that starburst and/or agn induced outflows have already effectively removed a substantial proportion of the gas and dust from the central region . </S>",
    "<S> these findings starkly contrast with model predictions which suggest an offset of a few 100 myr between the peak of merger induced star formation and the emergence of the optically visible quasar activity . based on our stellar population </S>",
    "<S> fits we also show that the total stellar mass is in the range @xmath2 , lower than typically found for quasar host galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  galaxies : interactions  galaxies : starburst  galaxies : stellar content  quasars : individual </S>"
  ]
}