{
  "article_text": [
    "recent observations have revealed that supermassive black holes ( smbhs ) are ubiquitously present at the center of galaxy spheroidal components , and that the masses of smbhs and spheroidal stars are correlated @xcite , suggesting that smbhs are an important galaxy ingredient whose formation is closely related to galaxy formation .",
    "the widely accepted cold dark matter - based galaxy formation theories postulate that small gas - rich galaxies merge and grow into massive galaxies , as seen in the present - day universe @xcite .",
    "if smbhs are present in the progenitor gas - rich small galaxies , then the merging galaxies should have multiple smbhs . in this case ,",
    "kiloparsec - scale dual active galactic nuclei ( agns ) are expected to be common if the mass accretion onto both smbhs is sufficiently high to create luminous observable agns @xcite .",
    "optical spectroscopic searches for agns with double - peaked emission lines @xcite and subsequent follow - up observations at other wavelengths have been extensively performed in the search for kiloparsec - scale dual agns @xcite .",
    "these studies have provided some examples of kiloparsec - scale dual agns , but the detected fraction of optically identifiable kiloparsec - scale dual agns ( @xmath3a few % ) is significantly smaller than the number derived from the simple theoretical prediction that the majority of galaxy mergers should have multiple smbhs and become dual agns if both smbhs are sufficiently mass - accreting @xcite .",
    "several scenarios have been proposed to reconcile this discrepancy between theory and observations , but it is still unclear which scenario is most likely .",
    "first , double - peaked emission is expected only in dual active smbhs whose orbital planes are aligned relatively edge - on along our line of sight . those systems whose orbital planes are aligned face - on are overlooked with these methods @xcite .",
    "although this scenario may be able to explain the discrepancy by a factor of a few , it is probably difficult to account for the difference by more than an order of magnitude , provided that the alignment of the orbital planes of two active smbhs is random in terms of our line - of - sight . a second",
    ", more plausible explanation is that most agns in gas - rich galaxy mergers are deeply buried in gas and dust along virtually all directions @xcite and can become optically elusive @xcite .",
    "third , it is also possible that even though multiple smbhs are present , only one of them has sufficient mass accretion to be observationally detectable as an agn ( i.e. , non - synchronous smbh mass accretion ) during galaxy mergers @xcite .",
    "if we are to unveil observationally the true fraction of kiloparsec - scale dual agns in gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies , it is of particular importance to apply observational methods that are sensitive to agns whose smbhs orbital motion is relatively face - on along our line - of - sight and to deeply buried agns .",
    "high - spatial - resolution imaging observations at the wavelengths of strong dust penetration are a powerful tool for this purpose because imaging observations can , in principle , preferentially detect agns with face - on multiple smbh orbit geometry , and buried agns are detectable at such wavelengths .",
    "x - rays in the 210 kev range have higher dust - penetrating power than the optical in the galactic interstellar medium @xcite , and it is well known that an agn is a much stronger x - ray emitter ( relative to the bolometric luminosity ) than a starburst @xcite , so x - ray observations are expected to be sensitive to agns , including obscured ones . in fact , strong dual agn candidates were discovered from 210 kev x - ray observations of several nearby gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies @xcite .",
    "although the presence of dual agns is strongly suggested , the observed 210 kev x - ray emission is , in most cases , only a scattered component behind compton - thick ( n@xmath7 @xmath8 10@xmath9 @xmath10 ) obscuring material rather than a directly transmitted component .",
    "thus , the intrinsic agn x - ray luminosity is difficult to estimate because the scattering efficiency is unknown . to extend the 210 kev x - ray dual agn survey systematically",
    "to gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies , the chandra x - ray observatory , with its spatial resolution of @xmath60@xmath45 , is a particularly powerful tool for spatially resolving closely separated multiple agns .",
    "in fact , the chandra x - ray observatory has been used to find obscured dual agns in further gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies @xcite .",
    "however , the detected x - ray fluxes are , in many cases , so faint that detailed spectral analysis is hampered .",
    "both the scattered x - ray component of compton - thick obscured agns and the emission originating from stars can reproduce the observed faint x - ray fluxes , often making it difficult to interpret the detected x - ray emission as solid evidence for an agn @xcite .",
    "x - ray observations at @xmath810 kev could directly detect transmitted x - ray emission from some mildly compton - thick agns @xcite , but the spatial resolution at @xmath810 kev is still insufficient ( @xmath815@xmath11 ) @xcite to spatially resolve many interesting closely separated dual agns .",
    "high - spatial - resolution radio observation using the vlbi technique is another powerful tool to detect closely separated dual agns , as radio wavelengths are less susceptible to dust extinction @xcite .",
    "however , the radio vlbi technique is sensitive only to a small fraction of radio - loud agn population , and it is not sensitive to the radio - quiet agns that comprise the majority of the agn population @xcite . the very small detectable fraction ( @xmath30.05% ) of dual agns discovered using this radio vlbi technique",
    "@xcite is difficult to interpret directly in relation to the actual fraction of dual agns .",
    "infrared observations at @xmath82 @xmath1 m are potentially another effective ( even improved ) method for investigating buried dual agns in gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies .",
    "first , compared with the optical , dust extinction is substantially reduced ( @xmath30.06 @xmath12 a@xmath13 ) @xcite .",
    "additionally , agns , including both radio - loud and radio - quiet ones , are observationally distinguishable from starbursts .",
    "strong polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pah ) emission features seen at 320 @xmath1 m are usually observed in starbursts , but not in pure agns @xcite , due to the destruction of pahs by strong agn x - ray emission @xcite . in a pure agn , a pah - free continuum due to agn - heated , large ( @xmath60.1 @xmath1 m ) hot dust grains is observed .",
    "thus , infrared spectroscopy can be a unique means to find obscured agns by separating them from starburst activity , as demonstrated by the successful detection of many buried agns in the brightest main nuclei of gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies @xcite .",
    "such infrared spectroscopy with high - spatial - resolution is , in principle , useful for dual agn searches , but in practice , its application to faint agns in secondary galaxy nuclei is limited by spectroscopic sensitivity .",
    "however , these infrared spectroscopic observations have clearly shown that the infrared 25 @xmath1 m continuum emission in agns is systematically redder than the emission from starbursts @xcite .",
    "the radiative energy generation efficiency of an agn (= mass accreting smbh ; 642% of mc@xmath14 ) @xcite is much higher than that of a starburst (= nuclear fusion reaction inside stars ; @xmath60.7% of mc@xmath14 ) .",
    "thus , high luminosity can be generated from a very compact region in an agn .",
    "a larger amount of dust in the close vicinity ( @xmath310 pc ) of an agn can be heated to high temperatures with several 100 k @xcite , producing stronger infrared @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) radiation than a starburst whose infrared 25 @xmath1 m flux is usually dominated by stellar photospheric blue emission .",
    "observationally , pure agns are known to display strong @xmath2-band flux excess relative to the @xmath0-band ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) ( @xmath15 2.0 ) @xcite , when compared to starburst activity ( @xmath16 0.5 ) @xcite .",
    "hence , we can scrutinize dual agns , including deeply buried ones , through the detection of spatially compact red @xmath5 sources .",
    "an important point is that while simple high - spatial - resolution imaging observations at wavelengths shorter than the @xmath0-band often can not easily differentiate agns from compact starbursts for spatially compact emission at the distance of interesting gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies @xcite , high - spatial - resolution imaging at both @xmath0 and @xmath2 can better distinguish between agns and compact starbursts by combining morphological and color information .",
    "more importantly , this infrared _ imaging _ method is more sensitive than the infrared _ spectroscopic _ method and thus is applicable to a larger number of fainter secondary nuclei of gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies , which is crucial for dual agn studies .",
    "given that the ratio of infrared dust extinction to x - ray absorption ( dust + gas ) toward obscured agns is empirically known to be much smaller than the galactic value @xcite , the infrared @xmath0 and @xmath2-band observations could be sensitive even to compton - thick buried agns , as was demonstrated in some sources @xcite , making the infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band imaging method particularly promising .",
    "the recent availability of laser - guide - star adaptive optics ( lgs - ao ) on ground - based 810-m telescopes has enabled us to routinely achieve spatial resolutions of @xmath30@xmath42 in infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band images for the bulk of extra - galactic sources .",
    "theoretical simulations of gas- and dust - rich galaxy mergers @xcite predict that dual agns become luminous , particularly at the late merging stage , at separations of less than a few kiloparsecs .",
    "this physical separation corresponds to @xmath31@xmath11 at z @xmath8 0.1 , so sub - arcsecond resolution observations are crucial .",
    "the ao - assisted infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band imaging method has several advantages : ( 1 ) it has even better spatial resolution ( @xmath30@xmath42 ) than the chandra x - ray observatory has ( @xmath60@xmath45 ) ; ( 2 ) it is sensitive to buried agns with face - on smbh orbits , which are missed in the previously employed optically based searches ; and ( 3 ) it can trace radio - quiet agns .",
    "all of these qualities make this an excellent and unique method for a systematic search for dual agns in gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies .",
    "we have thus embarked on ao - assisted infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band imaging observations of nearby gas- and dust - rich galaxy mergers using the subaru 8.2-m telescope atop mauna kea , hawaii .",
    "this is one of the best sites in the world for conducting highly sensitive @xmath2-band observations , due to high elevation ( @xmath64200 m ) and the resulting very low precipitable water vapor value .    throughout this paper , we adopt h@xmath17 @xmath18 71 km s@xmath19 mpc@xmath19 , @xmath20 = 0.27 , and @xmath21 = 0.73 @xcite .",
    "the luminosity distance is calculated using the cosmological calculator created by @xcite . in section 2 , we describe our sample population . in section 3 , we present our observations and data analysis , followed by results in section 4 .",
    "we discuss the implications of our results in section 5 , and conclude with a summary of our work in section 6 .",
    "we primarily target luminous infrared galaxies ( lirgs ) whose infrared luminosities exceed l@xmath22 @xmath8 10@xmath23l@xmath24 because they are a representative sample of gas- and dust - rich galaxy mergers in the local universe @xcite . in gas - rich lirgs , it is expected that many smbhs are mass accreting and so the detection rate of multiple smbhs through luminous agn searches is higher than in gas - poor galaxy mergers .",
    "previous systematic infrared spectroscopy revealed that buried agns play an increasing energetic role with increasing galaxy infrared luminosity and become particularly important in ultraluminous infrared galaxies ( ulirgs ) with l@xmath22 @xmath8 10@xmath25l@xmath24 @xcite .",
    "thus , ulirgs are of particular interest . among agn - hosting ulirgs at the brightest nuclei ,",
    "those with spatially resolved multiple nuclei in seeing - limited images @xcite are our first targets because investigating the presence of agns in the fainter secondary nuclei is a straightforward way to search for dual agns .",
    "in addition to these , we also include apparently single - nucleus ulirgs in seeing - limited images because it may be possible to detect closely separated dual agns in our high - spatial - resolution ao images .",
    "multiple - nuclei merging ulirgs without strong agn signatures in the brightest main nuclei are also added to see whether agns exist in the fainter secondary nuclei .",
    "in addition to ulirgs , we include five lirgs for which previous 210 kev x - ray observations have suggested the presence of dual agns @xcite .",
    "our aim in including these targets in our sample is to confirm that dual agn signatures could be found using our infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band imaging method .    in total , 29 merging systems were observed , and their basic properties are summarized in table 1 .",
    "our sample is neither homogeneous nor complete in a statistical sense .",
    "our goal is to determine whether our infrared method , sensitive to buried agns , results in a substantially higher fraction of dual agn detections than previous optically based methods , and to investigate whether the observed dual agn fraction approaches unity , as predicted by theories , in gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies in the local universe .",
    "we used the ircs infrared camera and spectrograph @xcite at the nasmyth focus of the subaru 8.2-m telescope atop mauna kea , hawaii @xcite , together with the 188-element adaptive optics ( ao ) system , using laser - guide stars ( lgs ) or natural - guide stars ( ngs ) @xcite . for the lgs - ao to work properly , we need to find a star or compact object brighter than 1819 mag in the optical @xmath26-band within @xmath690@xmath11 from the target to use as a guide star for good tip - tilt correction .",
    "the ao correction itself is made using a laser spot with an optical @xmath26-band magnitude of @xmath610.5 mag .",
    "because most extra - galactic sources have such guide stars , we can now routinely obtain high - quality lgs - ao images with significantly improved image sizes compared with seeing - limited observations . when laser launch was possible , we performed lgs - ao observations .",
    "however , when it was not , we adopted ngs - ao observations . to achieve good ngs - ao performance , we need a star or compact source brighter than 16.5 mag in the optical @xmath26-band within @xmath630@xmath11 from the target to serve a guide star for ao correction .",
    "the number of external galaxies with such suitable ngs - ao guide stars is limited .",
    "table 2 tabulates our observations , including information on guide stars used to achieve good ao performance and standard stars for photometric calibration . in summary ,",
    "ngs - ao was used during the observing runs in 2011 june and 2013 may , and lgs - ao was adopted for all the remaining observing runs .    during our subaru ao observations ,",
    "the sky was clear .",
    "the seeing in the @xmath0-band ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) , measured in images before starting actual ao exposures , was 0@xmath430@xmath47 in full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) .",
    "the precipitable water vapor value was low at @xmath31 mm for the 2012 may run , @xmath32 mm for 2011 june and july and 2012 october runs , and @xmath63 mm for 2012 march and april and 2013 may runs ; however , it was high at 45 mm for the 2011 august run .    in the @xmath0-band , we employed the 52 mas ( 52.77 mas pixel@xmath19 ) imaging mode to observe simultaneously some widely separated multiple galaxy nuclei and as many stars as possible to probe the point - spread function , within the field of view of 54@xmath404 @xmath12 54@xmath404 ( 1024 pixels @xmath12 1024 pixels ) .",
    "the only exception is mrk 231 , which has very bright nuclear emission , for which we employed the 20 mas ( 20.57 mas pixel@xmath19 ) imaging mode to scatter the bright nuclear glare into many pixels and avoid array saturation . in the @xmath2-band ,",
    "as earth s atmospheric background emission is high , we used the 20 mas imaging mode , whose field of view is 21@xmath406 @xmath12 21@xmath406 in the full - array mode . even using this 20 mas mode , we had to use a sub - array mode to avoid saturating the array for the @xmath2-band observations of some sources .    for the @xmath0-band observations of target merging ( u)lirgs , the exposure times were 0.2630 sec , and 2120 coadds were applied . in the @xmath2-band ,",
    "the exposure times were 0.0760.12 sec , with 250300 coadds .",
    "the individual exposure time was set so that signal levels at the object positions were below the linearity level of the ircs imaging array ( @xmath34000 adu ) .",
    "exposure times were dependent on the condition of earth s atmosphere and on the ambient background emission level at the time of observations , as well as on the brightness of the object nuclei .    for target",
    "merging ( u)lirgs , we adopted nine - point dithering patterns to observe objects at nine different array positions and to overcome the effects of bad pixels .",
    "one dataset consisted of the nine dithered frames . for faint ( u)lirgs , this nine - point dithering pattern was repeated multiple times .",
    "the only exception was the iras 16474@xmath273430 @xmath0-band data taken in 2011 july , for which a five - point dithering pattern was employed .",
    "for all observing runs , photometric @xmath0- and @xmath2-bands standard stars ( table 2 ) were observed , with a mean airmass difference of @xmath30.2 in directions similar to the individual ( u)lirgs to correct for the transmission of earth s atmosphere at the time of observations and to provide a flux calibration . for standard star observations ,",
    "ngs - ao was used whenever possible , using the standard stars themselves as ao guide stars to confirm the performance of the subaru ao using point sources and to observe the stability and variation in the point - spread function under varying earth atmospheric conditions . for a few very bright standard stars , we performed non - ao observations so that the signals did not exceed the linearity level of the ircs array .",
    "for a few standard stars , we did not have enough time to optimize the ao parameters and so used ao without the best tuning .",
    "these data are useful for photometry but not for investigating the point - spread function .",
    "standard data analysis procedures were employed using iraf .",
    "we first inspected the individual frames by eye .",
    "a very small fraction of frames showed strange patterns compared with the majority of the remaining normal frames .",
    "these strange frames were discarded from our analysis .",
    "we created median - combined sky frames to make a sky flat image for each dataset . in this procedure , the positions of bright objects and bad pixels were masked .",
    "individual frames were sky - subtracted and divided by the sky flat frames for flat fielding .",
    "when the effects of cosmic ray hits and bad pixels remained for a few pixels at this stage , we made corrections manually by replacing the signals of these pixels with the interpolated values of the surrounding pixels . then , we shifted the sky - subtracted , flat - fielded images so that the peak position of each target object landed on the same array pixel . for images that contained sufficiently bright compact sources inside the field of view of individual frames ,",
    "the pixel shift was determined using these bright compact sources .",
    "the @xmath0-band frames often contained such sources .",
    "for a small fraction of the @xmath0-band data and the majority of the @xmath2-band data , however , no such bright compact sources were seen in individual frames . in those cases",
    ", we used the offset values calculated from the dithering amplitude and pixel scale .",
    "we then average - combined these shifted frames to obtain final images .",
    "based on a comparison of the fwhm values of compact objects between the resulting combined images and individual frames , we found this offset estimate to be very accurate for our ao data , due to the good quality of the ao guiding of the subaru telescope .",
    "figure 1 presents the infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band ao images of the observed ( u)lirg nuclei .",
    "the achieved image sizes for stars and compact sources are usually 0@xmath410@xmath42 in fwhm both in the @xmath0- and @xmath2-bands . due to the higher atmospheric background emission ,",
    "the sensitivity in the @xmath2-band is much lower ( worse ) than that in the @xmath0-band .",
    "consequently , the detection significance in the @xmath2-band should be much lower than that in the @xmath0-band , unless the sources are very red in @xmath5 . in figure 1 , the detection rate of merging ( u)lirg nuclei is smaller in the @xmath2-band than in the @xmath0-band , and yet a significant fraction of the observed merging nuclei",
    "are clearly detected in our highly sensitive @xmath2-band ao images .    in the @xmath2-band ,",
    "the background emission for space - based infrared satellites is much lower than that for ground - based telescopes .",
    "so , as far as the detection of a single source is concerned , observations using space - based infrared satellites with small apertures could also be useful .",
    "wise ( 40 cm ) and spitzer ( 75 cm ) infrared satellites have imaging capabilities at 3.4 @xmath1 m @xcite and 3.6 @xmath1 m @xcite , respectively",
    ". these wavelengths are similar to our @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) .",
    "however , the spatial resolution of wise at 3.4 @xmath1 m and spitzer at 3.6 @xmath1 m are @xmath66@xmath41 @xcite and @xmath61@xmath47 @xcite , respectively . as our primary scientific goal is to locate closely - spaced dual agns and unveil their properties , higher - spatial - resolution ground - based ao images are more effective .",
    "as illustrative examples , figure 2 compares our ao images of two ulirgs at @xmath2 ( arp 220 and iras 16474@xmath273430 ) with spitzer irac camera images at 3.6 @xmath1 m analyzed from archival data .",
    "whereas multiple nuclei are clearly resolved in our ao images , the nuclei are not resolved in the spitzer irac data .",
    "it is clear that our ground - based ao images are better for our scientific purpose .",
    "@xmath0- and @xmath2-band emission originating from buried agns are dominated by agn - heated hot dust located in the innermost part ( @xmath310 pc in physical scale or @xmath30@xmath41 at @xmath28 0.01 ) of the surrounding dusty material , and so are expected to be almost point sources .",
    "higher - spatial - resolution photometry can minimize the contamination from spatially extended stellar - origin emission in host galaxies . in this regard ,",
    "ao images have an advantage over seeing - sized non - ao images ; the higher fraction of signal from compact sources is concentrated on a smaller central region . in our ao data ,",
    "the measured image sizes of stars and compact galaxy nuclei are usually 0@xmath410@xmath42 in fwhm .",
    "however , we should note that in ground - based ao imaging data , even though the peak signal level of a compact source is higher than that in non - ao data , a considerable fraction of emission from a compact source spreads over a seeing - sized halo outside the ao core .",
    "the signal fraction within the ao core ( 0@xmath410@xmath42 in fwhm ) is usually significantly less than unity at @xmath34 @xmath1 m @xcite and varies depending on the brightness of guide stars used for the lgs - ao tip - tilt correction or ngs - ao correction , their separation from the target objects , and earth s atmospheric turbulence at the time of observations .",
    "hence , if we extract signal only from the ao - core emission component ( 0@xmath410@xmath42 in fwhm ) , we will recover , for example , 50% of the spatially unresolved compact source flux in some cases and 75% in other cases .",
    "this difference will introduce a large uncertainty in the photometry of the nuclear compact sources among different galaxies .",
    "larger aperture photometry can obviously cover a larger signal fraction of compact sources , but at the same time , the contamination from spatially extended stellar emission will increase . we must find the optimum aperture size such that the bulk of the compact source signal is covered , and yet the contamination from stellar emission is minimal .",
    "figure 3 plots the growth of the curves of the encircled signal in the @xmath2-band using standard stars and a compact ulirg observed with ngs - ao . figure 4",
    "displays the same plot for any compact sources found in the science target data , observed with lgs - ao .",
    "although ao performance varies slightly among the different observing runs , 8593% of total signal is usually recovered using a @xmath60@xmath45 ( 25 pixels @xmath12 20.57 mas pixel@xmath19)-radius aperture .",
    "even in the data taken in 2012 october , when seeing was most unstable among our observing runs in table 2 , @xmath883% of the total signal is included within the selected aperture size .",
    "thus , with the @xmath60@xmath45 radius aperture , we can consistently recover 8393% of the spatially unresolved compact source flux in our @xmath2-band lgs- and ngs - ao data .",
    "figure 5 shows the growth of the curves of the encircled signal in the @xmath0-band for standard stars and one ulirg observed with ngs - ao .",
    "figure 6 displays the same plot for any compact sources detected inside the science target frames taken with lgs - ao . in the @xmath0-band ,",
    "earth s atmospheric turbulence effects are larger than in the @xmath2-band .",
    "also , the selected standard stars are generally fainter in the optical @xmath26-band than the @xmath2-band standard stars .",
    "thus , poorer growth of curves may be anticipated , and yet 7590% of signals are usually recovered with the @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture in the @xmath0-band .    for @xmath2-band data ,",
    "a standard star was observed with and without ngs - ao on the same night ( 2011 august 22 ut ) ( figure 3 , upper left ) .",
    "the ao data provide higher encircled signals at small radii than non - ao data , demonstrating the merit of ao for spatially unresolved compact source photometry using a small aperture .    from the fact that 7590% and 8393% of the spatially unresolved compact source signals are consistently recovered with a @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture in @xmath0- and @xmath2-band data , respectively , taken on different nights , under different earth s atmospheric conditions , and with different guide star properties",
    ", we can safely conclude that subaru ao , including both ngs - ao and lgs - ao , can provide such stable data , as long as the ao correction performs sufficiently well .",
    "we thus apply the same aperture size ( @xmath60@xmath45 radius ) for the photometry of nuclear compact sources (= hot dust emission heated by the putative agns ) in the target ( u)lirgs and consider that 7590% and 8393% of compact source signal is recovered in the @xmath0- and @xmath2-band , respectively .",
    "table 3 summarizes the photometric measurements of individual merging nuclei using a @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture .",
    "the measurements are performed by varying the regions selected for sky subtraction , but are usually found to agree within much better than 0.2 mag .",
    "the more significant source of photometric uncertainty is the slight variation in compact source signal fraction within the @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture .",
    "for example , if two different galaxies included 75% and 90% of the compact source signal , respectively , for the selected @xmath60@xmath45- radius aperture , then the measured photometry could differ by @xmath60.2 mag between these sources , even if the intrinsic compact source flux were the same . also , for the same galaxy nucleus , if 75% and 93% of compact source signal were included with the @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture in the @xmath0-band and @xmath2-band , respectively",
    ", the derived @xmath5 color could differ from the actual color by @xmath60.2 mag .",
    "therefore , we must be aware that the @xmath60.2 mag photometric uncertainty among different galaxy nuclei or between the @xmath0- and @xmath2-bands for the same galaxy nucleus is unavoidable in our ao photometry of spatially unresolved compact emission .",
    "in general , since the signal fraction of compact emission within the @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture is higher in the @xmath2- than in the @xmath0-band ( figures 36 ) , the estimated @xmath5 colors can be at most @xmath60.2 mag redder than the true colors of the compact sources .",
    "the uncertainty in the @xmath5 colors of compact source emission in a redder sense is reduced somewhat by the fact that the spatially extended stellar contribution to an observed flux ( within the @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture ) is higher in the @xmath0- than in the @xmath2-band .",
    "this partially compensates for the slightly higher missing flux of compact source emission in the @xmath0- than in the @xmath2-band . in summary",
    ", the measured @xmath5 colors of spatially compact source emission should agree with the true colors within no redder than 0.2 mag .    as to the absolute flux of the compact source emission",
    ", the uncertainty is different from that of the @xmath5 color .",
    "while our @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture recovers 7590% and 8393% of spatially unresolved compact source signals in the @xmath0- and @xmath2-bands , respectively , a @xmath62@xmath11-radius aperture is basically used for the photometry of ao - corrected standard stars ( point sources with virtually no spatially extended emission ) to recover as much point source signal as possible ( @xmath895% ) .",
    "thus , when the @xmath60@xmath45-radius aperture photometry of merging nuclei is compared with the @xmath62@xmath11-radius aperture photometry of standard stars , the @xmath0- and @xmath2-band compact source fluxes of merging galaxy nuclei could be underestimated by as much as @xmath60.3 mag ( the maximum difference between 7590% and 100% ) in the @xmath0-band and @xmath60.2 mag ( the maximum difference between 8393% and 100% ) in the @xmath2-band .",
    "table 4 compares our nuclear 0@xmath45-radius ( 1@xmath40 diameter ) @xmath0-band photometry , with 1@xmath41 diameter 2.2 @xmath1 m photometry by @xcite for ( u)lirg nuclei observed by both groups .",
    "our photometry tends to be fainter by a few tenths of a magnitude , most likely because our aperture is slightly smaller , and some fraction of the seeing - sized ao halo signal of compact source emission is not covered .",
    "hence , our ao photometry should not miss the spatially compact emission from the putative agns with more than @xmath60.3 mag in the @xmath0-band and @xmath60.2 mag in the @xmath2-band , which will not affect our main discussions and conclusions .",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , agns should have redder @xmath5 colors than starbursts due to the larger amount of hot ( several 100 k ) dust emission in the former .",
    "although the intrinsic @xmath5 colors could have some scatter for individual starbursts and agns , we adopt the values for intrinsic @xmath5 color = 0.5 mag for starburst activity @xcite and @xmath5 = 2.0 mag for agns @xcite . the observed @xmath5 colors vary as a function of the agn contribution to the observed flux , increasing ( reddening ) with increasing agn contribution .",
    "our calculation shows that the @xmath5 color becomes @xmath81.0 mag when the agn contribution to the @xmath2-band flux exceeds @xmath650% .",
    "hence , for the purposes of this analysis , we consider that galaxy nuclei with @xmath29 1.0 mag contain luminous recognizable agns rather than an intrinsic color scatter of starbursts . based on table 3 ( column 4 ) , at least one agn ( @xmath30 1.0 mag )",
    "is detected with our ao - assisted infrared imaging method in all sources except iras 21208@xmath310519 , demonstrating that our method is very effective at detecting agns in many gas- and dust - rich merging ( u)lirg nuclei . in table 3",
    "( column 5 ) , the estimated agn contribution to the observed @xmath2-band flux is shown for ( u)lirg nuclei with @xmath5 = 0.52.0 mag .",
    "( u)lirg nuclei with @xmath5 @xmath3 0.5 mag and @xmath8 2.0 mag are taken as 100% dominated by starbursts and agns , respectively .",
    "we now comment on some strengths of our method and discuss some caveats .",
    "first , the infrared @xmath2-band is very sensitive to an agn . assuming the typical spectral energy distribution of an agn and a starburst , the @xmath2-band - to - bolometric luminosity ratio of an agn ( @xmath60.2 ) is two orders of magnitude higher than that of a starburst ( @xmath60.002 ) @xcite .",
    "this means that for an agn whose bolometric contribution is only 10% ( 5% ) , as much as 91% ( 84% ) of the observed infrared @xmath2-band flux comes from the agn ( no dust extinction case ) .",
    "even if the dust extinction of a buried agn is larger by a@xmath13 @xmath6 35 mag than the surrounding starbursts , 52% ( 34% ) of the infrared @xmath2-band flux originates in the buried agn , if we adopt the dust extinction curve derived by @xcite . in short",
    ", we should be able to detect moderately luminous buried agns even in galaxies with coexisting strong starbursts .",
    "this is likely to be the primary reason that our method allows the detection of many agns in the gas- and dust - rich merging ( u)lirgs that usually accompany strong starburst activity .",
    "next , we discuss an alternative possible mechanism for increasing @xmath5 colors .",
    "dust extinction can redden the colors of obscured starbursts .",
    "if the @xmath5 colors become @xmath321.0 mag by this mechanism without invoking agn - heated hot dust emission , some galaxy nuclei with @xmath33 1.0 mag may not contain luminous agns .",
    "however , recent observations have shown that the dust extinction curve is relatively flat in the infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band wavelength range , with dust extinction at @xmath2 only 0.50.7 times the extinction at @xmath0 ( a@xmath34 = 0.50.7 @xmath12 a@xmath35 ) @xcite . adopting a@xmath35/a@xmath13 = 0.062 @xcite , even in the case of dust extinction as large as a@xmath13 = 10 mag ( foreground screen dust absorption case ) , the @xmath5 colors change by only @xmath60.3 mag .",
    "in fact , in normal starburst galaxies , stellar energy sources and dust and gas are spatially well mixed @xcite , and the actual flux attenuation should be much lower than the foreground screen dust model for the same dust extinction toward the most dust - obscured region at the other side .",
    "hence , we anticipate that a color reddening of starbursts to @xmath29 1.0 mag by dust extinction is not very common , and therefore that @xmath29 1.0 mag nuclei are dominated by luminous hot - dust - emitting agns , with a very small contribution from highly obscured starburst nuclei .",
    "dust extinction for buried - agn - heated hot dust emission could also alter the observed @xmath5 colors .",
    "given that the dust extinction of buried - agn - heated @xmath0- and @xmath2-band emitting hot dust in the inner part of the dusty envelope is most likely to be substantially larger than that in the surrounding starburst regions and that a foreground screen dust model is applied to buried agns @xcite , this effect may not be neglected .",
    "we now assume the dust extinction curve of a@xmath35/a@xmath13 = 0.062 and a@xmath34/a@xmath13 = 0.031 derived by @xcite , and consider the two examples of a@xmath13 = 16 mag and a@xmath13 = 32 mag as dust extinction for the buried - agn - heated hot dust emission .",
    "flux attenuation of starburst - origin @xmath0- and @xmath2-band emission by dust extinction is assumed to be negligible here .",
    "the buried - agn - origin @xmath5 colors change from 2.0 mag to 2.5 mag and 3.0 mag in the case of a@xmath13 = 16 mag and 32 mag , respectively , while the @xmath5 colors of starbursts remain unchanged as 0.5 mag . in this case , the observed @xmath5 colors become @xmath321.0 mag , when the contributions from buried - agn - origin emission to the observed @xmath2-band fluxes are 44% and 41% , respectively , which are smaller than no dust extinction case for the agn - heated hot dust emission ( @xmath650% agn contribution is required to make @xmath5 @xmath32 1.0 mag ) .",
    "however , in the case of a@xmath13 = 16 mag and 32 mag dust extinction toward the buried - agn - heated hot dust region , the intrinsic agn - heated hot dust emission luminosities will increase by a factor of 1.6 and 2.5 , respectively , after correction for the flux attenuation by dust extinction .",
    "when this correction is applied , the fraction of the intrinsic agn - origin @xmath2-band flux , relative to the observed @xmath2-band flux , becomes 55% and 64% for the a@xmath13 = 16 mag and 32 mag dust extinction case , respectively .",
    "these fractions are even larger than that in the case of no dust extinction for agn - heated hot dust emission .",
    "therefore , our argument that important agn contributions are required to reproduce the observed colors of @xmath5 @xmath32 1.0 mag will not change , or even be strengthened .",
    "now that the agn contribution to the observed @xmath2-band flux has been estimated ( table 3 , column 5 ; no dust extinction case for the agn - heated hot dust emission ) , we can derive the luminosity of the agn - heated hot dust emission in the close vicinity ( @xmath310 pc ) of an agn , which dominates the agn - originated @xmath2-band flux .",
    "as our main targets are optically elusive buried agns surrounded by dust and gas with a covering factor close to unity , we here assume a simple spherical dust distribution . in this geometry , dust has a strong temperature gradient .",
    "inner ( outer ) dust has a higher ( lower ) temperature , and dust emission luminosity is conserved at each temperature from the hot inner regions to the cool outer regions @xcite .",
    "the inner hot dust should generate most of the @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) emission , and the intrinsic agn - origin @xmath2-band luminosity ( @xmath36l@xmath37 or @xmath38l@xmath39 ) , after subtracting the stellar contamination , should be as large as the intrinsic agn uv  optical energetic radiation luminosity at the very center .",
    "the estimated agn luminosity is tabulated in table 3 ( column 6 ) .",
    "this agn luminosity is derived from the observed agn - origin @xmath2-band luminosity , with no dust extinction correction .",
    "correction for possible dust extinction of the agn - origin @xmath2-band emission will increase the intrinsic agn uv  optical energetic radiation luminosity .",
    "additionally , if the dust covering factor around an agn is substantially below unity , the agn - heated hot dust emission luminosity underestimates the intrinsic agn uv  optical energetic radiation luminosity . for these reasons , the derived agn luminosity in our method",
    "should be taken as a lower limit .      among",
    "the 29 observed infrared luminous merging systems , signatures of dual agns with separations of @xmath80@xmath45 were previously reported from x - ray observations for the following five sources : mrk 463 @xcite , mrk 739 @xcite , ngc 3393 @xcite , ngc 6240 @xcite , and iras 20210@xmath271121 @xcite . using our methods , we detect double nuclear emission in mrk 463 , mrk 739 , ngc 6240 , and iras 20210@xmath271121 , but not in ngc 3393 .",
    "however , only ngc 6240 displays the double red ( @xmath29 1.0 mag ) nuclei that are indicative of a dual agn .",
    "mrk 463 , mrk 739 , and iras 20210@xmath271121 show only one red ( @xmath29 1.0 mag ) nucleus , with a blue @xmath5 color ( @xmath31.0 mag ) at the other nucleus .    in ngc 3393 , we see no signature of a secondary nucleus at @xmath60@xmath46 away from the primary nucleus @xcite ,",
    "although our ao images should be able to resolve both nuclei spatially .",
    "a similar case is found in an agn at z = 0.16 ( sdss j171544.05 + 600835.7 ) , in which double x - ray emission is found with the chandra x - ray observatory , but the infrared @xmath0-band image shows a single nuclear morphology @xcite . however , no x - ray spectra are shown in this source , and the origin of the detected x - ray emission is less clear than ngc 3393 .",
    "x - ray observations are sensitive to an agn , irrespective of the presence of hot dust in the close vicinity of a mass - accreting smbh , and our infrared imaging method requires the presence of hot dust for agn detection .",
    "if the detected x - ray emission from both nuclei originates in luminous agns , one nucleus in mrk 463 , mrk 739 , ngc 3393 , and iras 20210@xmath271121 could be a hot - dust - deficient agn , in which case the contribution from agn - heated hot dust emission to the observed @xmath2-band flux would be small , and the observed infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band fluxes would be dominated by nuclear stellar - origin emission .      among",
    "the 29 observed merging ( u)lirgs , only four systems ( mrk 273 , arp 220 , iras 16474@xmath273430 , and ngc 6240 ) show red ( @xmath29 1.0 mag ) colors in both merging nuclei , indicative of dual agns .",
    "thus , the fraction of detected dual agns is @xmath614% ( 4/29 ) .",
    "because the bottom five sources in table 1 are known dual agns from previous x - ray observations , their inclusion could bias the fraction of detectable dual agns .",
    "however , only one out of the five sources ( = 20% ) is an infrared dual agn , not significantly biasing the total dual agn fraction .",
    "the detected dual agn fraction in our infrared imaging method is apparently slightly higher than that of previous optical dual agn surveys with @xmath35% @xcite , although the sample size is still small , and the sample selection criteria are different .",
    "however , the detected dual agn fraction is far below unity and is much smaller than the value expected from the simple prediction that the majority of gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies should have multiple active smbhs .    because our infrared imaging method is sensitive to buried agns",
    ", it is unlikely that the small detectable dual agn fraction is due to the elusiveness of agns obscured by dust ( see @xmath401 ) .",
    "previous optical spectroscopic dual agn searches and our method are sensitive to multiple active smbhs with edge - on and face - on orbiting geometry , respectively , and the detectable dual agn fraction is still much less than unity , even after combining these two methods . thus , the most natural explanation is non - simultaneous smbh activation @xcite .",
    "we can observationally identify the presence of smbhs at the distance of the observed merging galaxies , only if the smbhs are actively mass accreting .",
    "if only one of the multiple smbhs is sufficiently active to be observationally detectable over the long time period of a galaxy merger , and if the phase during which both smbhs are active is short , then most merging galaxies with multiple smbhs can not be identified as dual agns .",
    "this scenario predicts that the mass accretion rates onto smbhs should be different for multiple smbhs . to test this scenario , we compare the buried agn luminosity , derived from our infrared observations , with @xmath0-band photometry , including host galaxy emission @xcite , for spatially resolved multiple - nuclei merging systems in seeing - limited images .",
    "these @xmath0-band luminosities should reflect the stellar luminosity , and smbh mass ratios in individual merging nuclei are expected to be roughly proportional to the @xmath0-band stellar luminosity ratios @xcite .",
    "figure 7 ( left ) compares the @xmath0-band stellar luminosity ratio ( i.e. , smbh mass ratio ) and nuclear @xmath2-band luminosity ratio ( table 5 ) between seeing - based spatially resolved multiple nuclei .",
    "if both smbhs in multiple nuclei systems have similar mass accretion rates when normalized to the smbh mass , then the sources are expected to be distributed around the solid line .",
    "however , most sources are located far from the solid line , suggesting that the mass accretion rates per smbh mass (= eddington ratio ) are significantly different between the two nuclei in the majority of the observed multiple - nuclei merging systems . in figure 7 ( right ) , we also compare the @xmath0-band stellar luminosity ratio with agn - origin @xmath2-band luminosity ratio after subtracting stellar contamination . in figure 7 ( left ) and ( right ) , some ambiguity remains . in the left panel , stellar emission could contribute to the @xmath2-band flux , whereas in the right panel , the agn subtraction process could introduce some uncertainty .",
    "however , both plots show basically the same behavior : most sources largely deviate from the solid line , strongly suggesting that smbh activation is non - synchronous .",
    "the bulk of the observed merging ( u)lirgs are distributed along the upper - left side of the solid line , indicating that larger - mass smbhs generally have higher eddington ratios than smaller - mass smbhs .    in this comparison , we need to include some cautionary statements .",
    "first , the large - aperture @xmath0-band photometry could include emission from agns , particularly for luminous agns that are weakly obscured by dust . in these systems ,",
    "agn - origin nuclear emission could contribute substantially to the observed @xmath0-band flux .",
    "this might result in an overestimate of the inferred smbh mass from the observed @xmath0-band luminosity .",
    "however , since our primary targets are obscured agns in gas- and dust - rich merging ( u)lirgs , this effect is not expected to be severe in most cases . in figure 7 , the bulk of the observed sources are distributed around the upper - left side of the solid line , a region in which larger smbhs are more actively mass accreting (= higher eddington ratios ) . the agn contribution to the @xmath0-band flux",
    "can be high in such larger - mass smbhs with high eddington ratios if they are less dust obscured . if this effect is present in some sources , then the actual mass of the larger smbh is smaller than our estimate . in that case",
    ", the true eddington ratios in larger - mass smbhs would become even higher , increasing the non - simultaneity of the mass - accretion rates onto multiple smbhs .",
    "thus , our main conclusion does not change .",
    "second , our method provides higher agn luminosity in the @xmath2-band brighter nucleus than in the @xmath2-band fainter nucleus in each merging system because the possible dust extinction of agn - heated hot dust emission is not taken into account . assuming that the eddington ratios are similar for smbhs at two nuclei ,",
    "if dust extinction of agn - heated hot dust is generally smaller in the larger - mass smbhs than in the smaller - mass smbhs , then many sources would appear at the upper - left side of the solid line in figure 7 .",
    "the trends observed in figure 7 could be reproduced without introducing non - synchronous smbh mass accretion .",
    "similar eddington ratios would mean that larger - mass smbhs have higher absolute mass accretion rates , requiring a larger amount of fuel in the vicinity of the smbhs , which could obscure the smbhs .",
    "in gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies , more luminous agns with higher absolute mass accretion rates are predicted to be more highly obscured @xcite , making this second scenario ( similar eddington ratios with less dust extinction in the larger - mass smbhs ) unlikely , and still supporting the suggestion that larger - mass smbhs have generally higher eddington ratios .",
    "third , when we convert @xmath0-band stellar luminosity to smbh mass , we need to mention that younger star formation is likely to have higher @xmath0-band luminosity than older star formation for a given galaxy stellar mass @xcite .",
    "the inferred smbh mass can be overestimated for younger star formation .",
    "actively mass - accreting smbhs indicate the presence of dynamically settled nuclear gas , which is likely to cause active young nuclear starbursts @xcite .",
    "thus , the smbh mass could be overestimated for active smbhs with higher eddington ratios .",
    "now , figure 7 suggests that larger - mass smbhs have higher eddington ratios in general than do smaller - mass smbhs .",
    "if the abscissa is changed from @xmath0-band stellar luminosity to actual smbh mass , many sources currently located around the upper - left side of the solid line in figure 7 would move leftward , even strengthening the scenario that larger mass smbhs have higher eddington ratios .",
    "thus , this uncertainty also will not change our conclusion .",
    "figure 8 plots the comparison of the nuclear @xmath2-band to galaxy - wide @xmath0-band stellar luminosity ratio ( left ) and agn - origin @xmath2-band to @xmath0-band stellar luminosity ratio ( right ) , between two nuclei , as a function of apparent nuclear separation .",
    "since the @xmath0-band stellar luminosity is taken as the indicator of smbh mass @xcite , the ordinate corresponds to the ratio of smbh - mass - normalized mass accretion rates (= eddington ratio ) between the two nuclei .",
    "sources close to ( far away from ) the solid horizontal lines mean that smbh - mass - normalized mass accretion rates are similar ( largely different ) between the two nuclei .",
    "if dual smbh activation preferentially occurs at a later merging stage @xcite , it is expected that sources with small apparent nuclear separation tend to be distributed around the solid horizontal lines .",
    "no such trend is seen .",
    "finally , our comparison of smbh mass and agn luminosity above is limited to ( u)lirgs with spatially resolved nuclei in seeing - limited images .",
    "multiple active closely - separated smbhs ( @xmath411@xmath11 ) , which are spatially resolvable only with our ao images ( e.g. , iras 16474@xmath273430 in figure 1 , @xmath2-band image ) , are very interesting , in terms of the theoretical prediction that such smbhs in the late stages of gas- and dust - rich galaxy mergers become particularly active and become luminous agns @xcite .",
    "however , although agn luminosity ratios for closely separated systems could be derived from our ao - assisted high - spatial - resolution infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band imaging data ( table 3 ) , smbh mass ratios are difficult to obtain from stellar emission luminosity in @xmath0-band images because host galaxy s stellar emission strongly overlaps between multiple nuclei .",
    "spatially resolved velocity information obtained with ao - assisted spectroscopy will be useful for inferring smbh ratios in such small - separation smbh systems , but such observations are still limited to very bright nuclei only @xcite .",
    "investigating the properties of these closely separated smbhs requires additional future work .    in summary ,",
    "our results support the scenario proposed by the theory @xcite that smbh mass accretion is not simultaneous among multiple smbhs in gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies . in general , larger - mass smbhs are more actively mass accreting ( normalized to smbh mass ) in merging ( u)lirgs with multiple nuclei in seeing - limited images .",
    "this non - synchronous smbh activation may reduce the fraction of observable dual agn , compared to the fraction of multiple smbhs , in merging galaxies .",
    "our results suggest that mass accretion onto smbhs is dominated by the local environment on the small scale rather than by global galaxy properties , even in gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies . in this case , it is not easy to predict smbh activity through theoretical simulations of galaxy mergers .",
    "thus , observations are important for understanding how multiple smbhs are activated during the gas- and dust - rich galaxy merger process .",
    "we conducted infrared @xmath0- and @xmath2-band high - spatial - resolution ( @xmath30@xmath42 ) imaging observations of nearby infrared luminous merging galaxies using subaru lgs / ngs - ao to search for kiloparsec - scale multiple agns surrounded by dust through the detection of red @xmath5 compact sources . given the gas- and dust - rich nature of these galaxies , many smbhs are expected to be mass accreting and hence to become luminous agns , but these agns are deeply buried in gas and dust . using our infrared method , which is sensitive to buried agns , the observational detection of multiple smbhs is expected to be more feasible than in gas - poor galaxy mergers where many smbhs may not be actively mass accreting due to the paucity of surrounding gas .",
    "we present the following main conclusions .    1 .   among 29",
    "observed merging systems , at least one agn was found in all sources except one , demonstrating the effectiveness of our method for the purpose of agn detection in these gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies . 2 .",
    "kiloparsec - scale dual agns were seen in only four of 29 galaxies , even using our powerful method , which is sensitive to deeply buried agns .",
    "this fraction seems slightly higher than the fraction determined by previously published optical spectroscopic dual agn searches , despite the small sample size and the differences in criteria used for sample selection .",
    "however , the fraction is still significantly smaller than the value derived from the simple theoretical prediction that most gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies are expected to contain multiple active smbhs .",
    "3 .   the agn luminosity ratios derived from agn - origin @xmath2-band emission between two nuclei are , in most cases , higher than the smbh mass ratios inferred from large - aperture @xmath0-band photometric observations . when normalized to smbh mass , larger - mass smbhs are generally more highly mass accreting than are smaller - mass smbhs in most of the observed infrared luminous merging galaxies with spatially resolved nuclei in seeing - limited images .",
    "this trend is independent off the apparent nuclear separation .",
    "when combined with previous optically based dual agn searches , our observational results suggest that the most likely reason for the small observed dual agn fraction in merging galaxies is that mass accretion onto multiple smbhs is non - simultaneous rather than the result of the orbiting geometry of multiple smbhs or the optical elusiveness of agns deeply buried in gas and dust .",
    "our results suggest that in gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies , mass accretion onto smbhs is primarily determined by local conditions rather than by global galaxy properties .",
    "this makes theoretical prediction difficult and necessitates the inclusion of observational constraints when attempting to understand what is happening for smbhs in gas- and dust - rich galaxy mergers .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for his / her useful comment .",
    "we are grateful to drs .",
    "minowa and ishii for their support during our observations at the subaru telescope and to sayaka yamaguchi for her english proofreading .",
    "is supported by a grant - in - aid for scientific research ( 23540273 ) .",
    "this research made use of ( 1 ) the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france , and the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration , ( 2 ) data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation , and ( 3 ) the nasa/ ipac infrared science archive , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "alonso - herrero , a. , quillen , a. c. , rieke , g. h. , ivanov , v. , & efstathiou , a. 2003 , aj , 126 , 81 alonso - herrero , a. , ward , m. j. , & kotilainen , j. k. 1997 , mnras , 288 , 977 armus , l. , charmandaris , v. , bernard - salas , j. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 656 , 148 balestra , i. , boller , t. , gallo , l. , lutz , d. , & hess , s. 2005 , a&a , 442 , 469 ballo , l. , braito , v. , della ceca , r. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 600 , 634 barvainis , r. , 1987 , apj , 320 , 537 bardeen , j. m. 1970 , nature , 226 , 64 barrows , r. , lacy , c. h. s. , kennefick , j. , et al . 2013 , apj , 769 , 95 bell , e. f. , & de jong , r. s. 2001 , apj , 550 , 212 beswick , r. j. , pedlar , a. , mundell , c. g. , gallimore , j. f. 2001 , mnras , 325 , 151 bianchi , s. , chiaberge , m. , piconcelli , e. , guainazzi , m. , & matt , g. 2008 , mnras , 386 , 105 braito , v. , della ceca , r. , piconcelli , e. , et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 420 , 79 burke - spolaor , s. 2011 , mnras , 410 , 2113 colpi , m. , & dotti , m. 2011 , advanced science letters , 4 , 181 comerford , j. m. , gerke , b. f. , stern , d. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 753 , 42 comerford , j. m. , pooley , d. , gerke , b. f. , & madejski , g. m. 2011 , apj , 737 , l19 dasyra , k. m. , tacconi , l. j. , davies , r. i. , et al .",
    "2006a , apj , 638 , 745 dasyra , k. m. , tacconi , l. j. , davies , r. i. , et al . 2006b , apj , 651 , 835 diaz , a. i. , prieto , m. a. , wamsteker , w. 1988 , a&a , 195 , 53 downes , d. , & eckart , a. 2007 , a&a , 468 , l57 dudley , c. c. , & wynn - williams , c. g. 1997 , apj , 488 , 720 fabbiano , g. , wang , j. , elvis , m. , & risaliti , g. 2011 , nature , 477 , 431 fadda , d. , giuricin , g. , granato , g. l. , & vecchies , d. 1998 , apj , 496 , 117 farrah , d. , bernard - salas , j. , spoon , h. w. w. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 667 , 149 fazio , g. g. , hora , j. l. , allen , l. e. , et al .",
    "2004 , apjs,154 , 10 ferrarese , l. , & merritt , d. 2000 , apj , 539 , l9 forster schreiber , n. m. , genzel , r. , lutz , d. , kunze , d. , & sternberg , a. 2001 , apj , 552 , 544 fu , h. , myers , a. , djorgovski , s. g. , & yan , l. 2011 , apj , 733 , 103 fu , h. , yan , l. , myers , a. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 745 , 67 gallimore , j , f. , & beswick , r. 2004 , aj , 127 , 239 gao , j. , jiang , b. w. , & li , a. 2009 , apj , 707 , 89 ge , j - q . , hu , c. , wang , j - m . , bai , j - m .",
    ", & zhang , s. 2012 , apjs , 201 , 31 georgantopoulos , i. , dasyra , k. m. , rovilos , e. , et al .",
    "2011 , a&a , 531 , 116 goldschmidt , p. , kukula , m. j. , miller , l. , & dunlop , j. s. 1999 , apj , 511 , 612 granato , g. l. , danese , l. , & franceschini , a. 1997 , apj , 486 , 147 gultekin , k. , richstone , d. o. , gebhardt , k. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 698 , 198 harrison , f. a. , craig , w. w. , christensen , f. e. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 770 , 103 hayano , y. , takami , h. , guyon , o. , et al .",
    "2008 , spie , 7015 , 25 hayano , y. , takami , h. , oya , s. , et al .",
    "2010 , spie , 7736 , 21 hopkins , p. f. , hernquist , l. , cox , t. j. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 630 , 705 hopkins , p. f. , hernquist , l. , cox , t. j. , et al .",
    "2006 , apjs , 163 , 1 hunt , l. k. , giovanardi , c. , & helou , g. 2002 , a&a , 394 , 873 hutchings , j. n. , & neff , s. g. 1989 , aj , 97 , 1306 imanishi , m. 2002 , apj , 569 , 44 imanishi , m. 2003 , apj , 599 , 918 imanishi , m. 2006 , aj , 131 , 2406 imanishi , m. 2009 , apj , 694 , 751 imanishi , m. , & dudley , c. c. 2000 , apj , 545 , 701 imanishi , m. , dudley , c. c. , & maloney , p. r. 2001 , apj , 558 , l93 imanishi , m. , dudley , c. c. , & maloney , p. r. 2006a , apj , 637 , 114 imanishi , m. , dudley , c. c. , maiolino , r. , et al .",
    "2007 , apjs , 171 , 72 imanishi , m. , ichikawa , k. , takeuchi , t. , et al .",
    "2011a , pasj , 63 , s447 imanishi , m. , imase , k. , oi , n. , & ichikawa , k. 2011b , aj , 141 , 156 imanishi , m. , maiolino , r. , & nakagawa , t. 2010a , apj , 709 , 801 imanishi , m. , nakagawa , t. , ohyama , y. , et al .",
    "2008 , pasj , 60 , s489 imanishi , m. , nakagawa , t. , shirahata , m. , ohyama , y. , & onaka , t. 2010b , apj , 721 , 1233 imanishi , m. , & terashima , y. 2004 , aj , 127 , 758 imanishi , m. , terashima , y. , anabuki , n. , & nakagawa , t. 2003 , apj , 596 , l167 imanishi , m. , & wada , k. 2004 , apj , 617 , 214 itoh , t. , done , c. , makishima , k. , et al .",
    "2008 , pasj , 60 , s251 ivanov , v. d. , rieke , g. h. , groppi , c. e. , et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 545 , 190 iye , m. , karoji , h. , ando , h. , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "pasj , 56 , 381 iwasawa , k.,mazzarella , j. m. , surace , j. a. , et al .",
    "2011a , a&a , 528 , 137 iwasawa , k. , sanders , d. b. , teng , s. h. , et al .",
    "2011b , a&a , 529 , 106 kim , d. -c . , & sanders , d. b. 1998 , apjs , 119 , 41 kim , d. -c . , veilleux , s. , & sanders , d. b. 2002 , apjs , 143 , 277 kobayashi , n. , tokunaga , a. t. , terada , h. , et al .",
    "2000 , ircs : infrared camera and spectrograph for the subaru telescope , in proc .",
    "spie 4008 : optical and ir telescope instrumentation and detectors , eds m. iye & a. f. moorwood , 1056 komatsu , e. , dunkley , j. , nolta , m. r. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjs , 180 , 330 komossa , s. , burwitz , v. , hasinger , g. , et al .",
    "2003 , apj , 582 , l15 koss , m. , mushotzky , r. , treister , e. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 735 , l42 koss , m. , mushotzky , r. , treister , e. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 746 , l22 liu , x. , civano , f. , shen , y. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 762 , 110 liu , x. , shen , y. , strauss , m. , greene , j. e. 2010 , apj , 708 , 427 liu , x. , shen , y. , strauss , m. a. , & hao , l. 2011 , apj , 737 , 101 magorrian , j. , tremaine , s. , richstone , d. , et al .",
    "1998 , apj , 115 , 2285 maiolino , r. , comastri , a. , gilli , r. , et al .",
    "2003 , mnras , 344 , l59 maloney , p. r. , & reynolds , c. s. 2000 , apj , 545 , l23 marconi , a. , & hunt , l. k. 2003 , apj , 589 , l21 max , c. e. , canalizo , g. , & de vries , w. h. 2007 , science , 316 , 1877 mcconnell , n. j. & ma , c - p .",
    "2013 , apj , 764 , 184 mcleod , k. k. , rieke , g. h. , rieke , m. j. , & kelly , d. m. 1993 , apj , 412 , 111 medling , a. m. , ammons , s. m. , max , c. e. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 743 , 32 minowa , y. , hayano , y. , oya , s. , et al .",
    "2010 , spie , 7736 , 77363n minowa , y. , hayano , y. , terada , h. , et al .",
    "2012 , spie , 8447 , 84471f moorwood , a. f. m. 1986 , a&a , 166 , 4 nardini , e. , risaliti , g. , salvati , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , mnras , 385 , l130 nardini , e. , risaliti , g. , salvati , m. , et al .",
    "2009 , mnras , 399 , 1373 nardini , e. , risaliti , g. , watabe , y. , salvati , m. , & sani , e. 2010 , mnras , 405 , 2505 nishiyama , s. , nagata , t. , tamura , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 680 , 1174 nishiyama , s. , tamura , m. , hatano , h. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 696 , 1407 oi , n. , imanishi , m. , & imase , k. 2010 , pasj , 62 , 1509 perez , e. , manchado , a. , garcia - lario , p. , & pottash , r. 1990 , a&a , 227 , 407 piconcelli , e. , vignali , c. , bianchi , s. , et al . 2010 , apj , 722 , l147 pilyugin , l. s. , zinchenko , i. a. , cedres , b. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 419 , 490 puxley , p. j. 1991 , mnras , 249 , 11p ranalli , p. , comastri , a. , & setti , g. 2003 , a&a , 399 , 39 risaliti , g. , gilli , r. , maiolino , r. , & salvati , m. 2000 , a&a , 357 , 13 risaliti , g. , imanishi , m. , & sani , e. 2010 , mnras , 401 , 197 rodqiguez , c. , taylor , g. b. , zavala , r. t. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 646 , 49 rosario , d. j. , mcgurk , r. c. , max , c. e. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 739 , 44 ryter , c. e. 1996 , apss , 236 , 285 sanders , d. b. , & mirabel , i. f. 1996 , ara&a , 34 , 749 sanders , d. b. , soifer , b. t. , elias , j. h. , neugebauer , g. , & matthews , k. 1988 , apj , 328 , l35 sani , e. , risaliti , g. , salvati , m. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 675 , 96 scoville , n. z. , evans , a. s. , thompson , r. , et al .",
    "2000 , aj , 119 , 991 severgnini , p. , risaliti , g. , marconi , a. , maiolino , r. , & salvati , m. 2001 , a&a , 368 , 44 shang , z. , brotherton , m. s. , wills , b. j. , et al , 2011 , apj , 196 , 2 shen , y. , liu , x. , greene , j. e. , & strauss , m. a. 2011 , apj , 735 , 48 shuder , j. m. , & osterbrock , d. e. 1981 , apj , 250 , 55 skrutskie , m. f. , cutri , r. m. , stiening , r. , et al . 2006 , aj , 131 , 1163 smith , k. l. , shields , g. a. , bonning , e. w. , et al .",
    "2010 , apj , 716 , 866 soifer , b. t. , neugebauer , g. , matthews , k. , et al .",
    "2000 , aj , 119 , 509 teng , s. h. , wilson , a. s. , veilleux , s. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 633 , 664 teng , s. h. , veilleux , s. , anabuki , n. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 691 , 261 teng , s. h. , schawinski , k. , urry , c. m. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 753 , 165 thorne , k. s. 1974 , apj , 191 , 507 tingay , s. j. , & wayth , r. b. 2011 , apj , 141 , 174 u. , b. , medling , a. , sanders , d. b. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 775 115 ueno , s. , koyama , k. , awaki , h. , hayashi , i. , & blanco , p. r. 1996 pasj 48 389 van wassenhove , s. , volonteri , m. , mayer , l. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 748 , l7 veilleux , s. , kim , d. -c . , & sanders , d. b. 1999a , apj , 522 , 113 veilleux , s. , kim , d. -c . , sanders , d. b. , mazzarella , j. m. , & soifer , b. t. 1995 , apjs , 98 , 171 veilleux , s. , sanders , d. b. , & kim , d. -c . 1997 , apj , 484 , 92 veilleux , s. , sanders , d. b. , & kim , d. -c .",
    "1999b , apj , 522 , 139 veilleux , s. , rupke , d. s. n. , kim , d .-",
    ", et al . 2009 , apjs , 182 , 628 videla , l. , lira , p. , andrews , h. , et al .",
    "2013 , apjs , 204 , 23 vika , m. , driver , s. p. , cameron , e. , kelvin , l. , & robotham , a. 2012 , mnras , 419 , 2264 voit , g. m. 1992 , mnras , 258 , 841 wang , j - m . ,",
    "chen , y - m .",
    ", hu , c. , et al . 2009 , apj , 705 , l76 wang , x. -w .",
    ", & zhou , h. -y .",
    "2012 , apj , 757 , 124 white , r. l. , becker , r. h. , gregg , m. d. , et al .",
    "2000 , apjs , 126 , 133 white , s. d. m. , & rees , m. j. 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341 wright , e. l. 2006 , pasp , 118 , 1711 wright , e. l. , eisenhardt , p. r. m. , mainzer , a. k. , et al .",
    "2010 , aj , 140 , 1868 xia , x. y. , xue , s. j. , mao , s. , et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 564 , 196 yu , q. , lu , y. , mohayaee , r. , & colin , j. 2011 , apj , 738 , 92 yuan , t. -t . , kewley , l. j. , sanders , d. b. 2010 , apj , 709 , 884 zhou , s. , wynn - williams , c. g. , & sanders , d. b. 1993 , apj , 409 , 149    lcrrrrccc iras 00091@xmath310738 & 0.118 & @xmath30.07 & 0.22 & 2.63 & 2.52 & 12.2 & hii@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath44 + iras 00188@xmath310856 & 0.128 & @xmath30.12 & 0.37 & 2.59 & 3.40 & 12.4 & li@xmath42(sy2@xmath43 ) & y@xmath45 + iras 05024@xmath311941 & 0.192 & 0.15 & 0.14 & 1.06 & 1.34 & 12.5 & sy2@xmath46 & y@xmath47 + iras 05189@xmath312524 & 0.042 & 0.73 & 3.44 & 13.67 & 11.36 & 12.1 & sy2@xmath46 & y@xmath48 + iras 08572@xmath273915 & 0.058 & 0.32 & 1.70 & 7.43 & 4.59 & 12.1 & li@xmath42(sy2@xmath43 ) & y@xmath49 + iras 12127@xmath311412 & 0.133 & @xmath30.13 & 0.24 & 1.54 & 1.13 & 12.2 & li@xmath42(hii@xmath43 ) & y@xmath45 + iras 12540 + 5708 ( mrk 231 ) & 0.042 & 1.87 & 8.66 & 31.99 & 30.29 & 12.5 & sy1@xmath46 & y@xmath50 + iras 13335@xmath312612 & 0.125 & @xmath30.13 & @xmath30.14 & 1.40 & 2.10 & 12.1 & li@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath14 + iras 13428@xmath275608 ( mrk 273 ) & 0.038 & 0.24 & 2.28 & 21.74 & 21.38 & 12.1 & sy2@xmath46 & y@xmath51 + iras 13443@xmath270802 & 0.135 & @xmath30.12 & @xmath30.11 & 1.50 & 1.99 & 12.2 & hii+sy2@xmath42(cp+sy2@xmath43 ) & n + iras 13451@xmath271232 ( pks 1345 + 12 ) & 0.122 & 0.14 & 0.67 & 1.92 & 2.06 & 12.3 & sy2@xmath46 & y@xmath52 + iras 14348@xmath311447 & 0.083 & 0.07 & 0.49 & 6.87 & 7.07 & 12.3 & li@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath53 + iras 15327@xmath272340 ( arp 220 ) & 0.018 & 0.48 & 7.92 & 103.33 & 112.40 & 12.1 & li@xmath46 & y@xmath54 + iras 16468@xmath275200 & 0.150 & @xmath30.06 & 0.10 & 1.01 & 1.04 & 12.1 & li@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath55 + iras 16474@xmath273430 & 0.111 & @xmath30.13 & 0.20 & 2.27 & 2.88 & 12.2 & hii@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath56 + iras 16487@xmath275447 & 0.104 & @xmath30.07 & 0.20 & 2.88 & 3.07 & 12.2 & li@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath57 + iras 17044@xmath276720 & 0.135 & @xmath30.07 & 0.36 & 1.28 & 0.98 & 12.2 & li@xmath42(sy2@xmath43 ) & y@xmath58 + iras 21208@xmath310519 & 0.130 & @xmath30.09 & @xmath30.15 & 1.17 & 1.66 & 12.0 & hii@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath14 + iras 23233@xmath272817 & 0.114 & @xmath30.13 & 0.28 & 1.26 & 2.11 & 12.1 & sy2@xmath46 & y@xmath59 + iras 23234@xmath270946 & 0.128 & @xmath30.06 & 0.08 & 1.56 & 2.11 & 12.1 & li@xmath42(cp@xmath43 ) & y@xmath47 + iras 23327@xmath272913 & 0.107 & @xmath30.06 & 0.22 & 2.10 & 2.81 & 12.1 & li@xmath42(sy2@xmath43 ) & y@xmath60 + iras 23389@xmath270300 & 0.145 & @xmath30.09 & @xmath30.35 & 1.23 & 1.17 & 12.2 & sy2@xmath46 & n + iras 23498@xmath272423 & 0.212 & @xmath30.10 & 0.12 & 1.02 & 1.45 & 12.5 & sy2@xmath46 & y@xmath61 + ugc 5101 & 0.040 & 0.25 & 1.03 & 11.54 & 20.23 & 12.0 & li@xmath62(sy2@xmath43 ) & y@xmath63 + mrk 463 & 0.051 & 0.51 & 1.58 & 2.18 & 1.92 & 11.8 & sy2@xmath64 & y@xmath65 + mrk 739 & 0.030 & 0.16 & 0.31 & 1.26 & 2.41 & 10.9 & sy1+hii@xmath66 & y@xmath67 + ngc 3393 & 0.013 & 0.13 & 0.75 & 2.25 & 3.87 & 10.4 & sy2@xmath68 & y@xmath69 + ngc 6240 & 0.024 & 0.56 & 3.42 & 22.68 & 27.78 & 11.8 & li@xmath70 & y@xmath71 + iras 20210@xmath271121 & 0.056 & 0.29 & 1.40 & 3.39 & 2.68 & 11.9 & sy2+li@xmath72 & y@xmath73 +    lclc|lr|lrr iras 00091@xmath310738 & k & 2011",
    "august 23 & 11.3 & fs2 & 10.5 & 0826 - 0002500 & 17 & 57 + & l & 2011 august 22 , 23 & 27 & hd 1160 & 7.1 & 0826 - 0002500 & 17 & 57 + iras 00188@xmath310856 & k & 2011 august 23 & 11.7 & fs2 & 10.5 & 0813 - 0003721 & 16 & 24 + & l & 2011 august 22 & 9 & hd1160 & 7.1 & 0813 - 0003721 & 16 & 24 + iras 05024@xmath311941 & k & 2012 october 16 & 9 & fs13 & 10.1 & 0703 - 0054437 & 15 & 10 + & l & 2012 october 16 & 27 & hd22686 & 7.2 & 0703 - 0054437 & 15 & 10 + iras 05189@xmath312524 & k & 2012 october 16 & 9 & fs13 & 10.1 & nucleus & 11 & 0 + & l & 2012 october 16 & 9 & hd22686 & 7.2 & nucleus & 11 & 0 + iras 08572@xmath273915 & k & 2012 april 15 & 4.5 & fs125 & 10.4 & 1290 - 0192776 & 14 & 58 + & l & 2012 april 15 & 13.5 & hd84800 & 7.5 & 1290 - 0192776 & 14 & 58 + iras 12127@xmath311412 & k & 2012 may 20 & 9 & fs132 & 11.8 & 0755 - 0260793 & 13 & 20 + & l & 2012 may 20 & 9 & hd106965 & 7.3 & 0755 - 0260793 & 13 & 20 + mrk 231 & k & 2013 may 8 & 15.6 & fs133 & 11.9 & nucleus & 9 & 0 + & l & 2013 may 8 & 13.7 & hd129653 & 6.9 & nucleus & 9 & 0 + iras 13335@xmath312612 & k & 2012 may 20 & 9 & s791-c & 11.2 & 0635 - 0309957 & 14 & 43 + & l & 2012 may 20 & 18 & hd106965 & 7.3 & 0635 - 0309957 & 14 & 43 + mrk 273 & k & 2013 may 8 & 9 & fs133 & 11.9 & 1458 - 0231011 & 16 & 34 + & l & 2013 may 8 & 22.5 & hd129653 & 6.9 & 1458 - 0231011 & 16 & 34 + iras 13443@xmath270802 & k & 2012 may 20 & 9 & s791-c & 11.2 & 0977 - 0294304 & 16 & 57 + & l & 2012 may 20 & 18 & hd106965 & 7.3 & 0977 - 0294304 & 16 & 57 + pks 1345 + 12 & k & 2012 march 23 & 4 & p272d & 11.2 & western nucleus & 12 & 0 + & l & 2012 march 23 & 9 & hd136754 & 7.2 & western nucleus & 12 & 0 + iras 14348@xmath311447 & k & 2012 april 15 & 9 & fs132 & 11.8 & 0749 - 0288838 & 15 & 27 + & l & 2012 april 15 & 13.5 & hd106965 & 7.3 & 0749 - 0288838 & 15 & 27 + arp 220 & k & 2012 april 15 & 9 & p272d & 11.2 & nucleus & 8 & 0 + & l & 2012 april 15 & 13.5 & hd136754 & 7.2 & nucleus & 8 & 0 + iras 16468@xmath275200 & k & 2011 august 23 & 12 & p138-c & 11.1 & 1419 - 0298775 & 18 & 37 + & l & 2011 august 23 & 13.5 & hd162208 & 7.1 & 1419 - 0298775 & 18 & 37 + iras 16474@xmath273430 & k & 2011 july 30 & 8 & fs 139 & 12.1 & 1244 - 0244739 & 15 & 17 + & l & 2012 may 20 & 18 & hd136754 & 7.2 & 1244 - 0244739 & 15 & 17 + iras 16487@xmath275447 & k & 2011 august 23 & 11.3 & p138-c & 11.1 & 1447 - 0253801 & 13 & 54 + & l & 2011 august 23 & 13.5 & hd162208 & 7.1 & 1447 - 0253801 & 13 & 54 + iras 17044@xmath276720 & k & 2012 april 15 & 9 & p272d & 11.2 & 1572 - 0201777 & 14 & 62 + & l & 2012 april 15 & 4.5 & hd136754 & 7.2 & 1572 - 0201777 & 14 & 62 + iras 21208@xmath310519 & k & 2011 august 23 & 15 & s813d & 11.1 & 0848 - 0617074 & 15 & 17 + & l & 2011 augsut 23 & 22.5 & gl811.1 & 6.7 & 0848 - 0617074 & 15 & 17 + iras 23233@xmath272817 & k & 2012 october 16 & 9 & fs155 & 9.4 & 1185 - 0599614 & 14 & 63 + & l & 2012 october 16 & 13.5 & hd203856 & 6.9 & 1185 - 0599614 & 14 & 63 + iras 23234@xmath270946 & k & 2011 august 22 & 11.3 & fs154 & 11.1 & 1000 - 0612015 & 18 & 61 + & l & 2011 august 22 & 9 & hd1160 & 7.1 & 1000 - 0612015 & 18 & 61 + iras 23327@xmath272913 & k & 2011 august 23 & 11.3 & fs155 & 9.4 & 1194 - 0587875 & 18 & 36 + & l & 2012 october 16 & 18 & hd203856 & 6.9 & 1194 - 0587875 & 18 & 36 + iras 23389@xmath270300 & k & 2011 august 22 & 11.3 & fs154 & 11.1 & 0932 - 0712575 & 16 & 52 + & l & 2011 august 22 & 13.5 & hd1160 & 7.1 & 0932 - 0712575 & 16 & 52 + iras 23498@xmath272423 & k & 2012 october 16 & 9 & fs155 & 9.4 & north - western nucleus & 17 & 0 + & l & 2012 october 16 & 9 & hd203856 & 6.9 & north - western nucleus & 17 & 0 + ugc 5101 & k & 2012 april 15 & 3.75 & fs125 & 10.4 & 1513 - 0178261 & 15 & 15 + & l & 2012 april 15 & 9 & hd84800 & 7.5 & 1513 - 0178261 & 15 & 15 + mrk 463 & k & 2012 march 23 & 9 & p272d & 11.2 & 1083 - 0240150 & 17 & 65 + & l & 2012 march 23 & 9 & hd136754 & 7.2 & 1083 - 0240150 & 17 & 65 + mrk 739 & k & 2012 april 15 & 9 & fs125 & 10.4 & 1116 - 0211017 & 17 & 31 + & l & 2012 april 15 & 13.5 & hd84800 & 7.5 & 1116 - 0211017 & 17 & 31 + ngc 3393 & k & 2012 may 20 & 9 & fs132 & 11.8 & 0648 - 0254969 & 16 & 55 + & l & 2012 may 20 & 9 & hd106965 & 7.3 & 0648 - 0254969 & 16 & 55 + ngc 6240 & k & 2011 june 20 & 48 & fs137 & 11.8 & 0924 - 0386013 & 12 & 37 + & l & 2011 june 20 & 5 & hd129655 & 6.7 & 0924 - 0386013 & 12 & 37 + iras 20210@xmath271121 & k & 2011 june 20 & 7.5 & fs149 & 10.1 & 1015 - 0589702 & 13 & 47 + & l & 2011 june 20 & 6.3 & hd201941 & 6.6 & 1015 - 0589702 & 13 & 47 +    lcrcrrc iras 00091@xmath310738 s & 15.7 & 14.7 & 1.0@xmath740.2 & 49 & 0.045 & 13.7 + iras 00091@xmath310738 n & 16.5 & @xmath815.3 & @xmath31.2 & @xmath364 & @xmath30.034 & 13.7 + iras 00188@xmath310856 & 13.9 & 12.7 & 1.2@xmath740.2 & 63 & 0.44 & 12.3 + iras 05024@xmath311941 e & 15.1 & 13.9 & 1.2@xmath740.2 & 63 & 0.35 & 13.3 + iras 05024@xmath311941 w & 15.8 & @xmath815.3 & @xmath30.5 & 0 & 0 & 13.3 + iras 05189@xmath312524 & 10.9 & 8.6 & 2.3@xmath740.2 & 100 & 2.9 & 8.7 + iras 08572@xmath273915 nw & 13.8 & 9.3 & 4.5@xmath740.2 & 100 & 3.0 & 10.3 + iras 08572@xmath273915 se & 16.5 & @xmath814.8 & @xmath31.7 & @xmath390 & @xmath30.017 & + iras 12127@xmath311412 ne & 13.5 & 10.7 & 2.8@xmath740.2 & 100 & 4.8 & 10.9 + iras 12127@xmath311412 sw & 18.3 & @xmath815.2 & @xmath33.1 & @xmath3100 & @xmath30.076 & + mrk 231 & 9.2 & 7.2 & 2.0@xmath740.2 & 100 & 10 & 7.4 + iras 13335@xmath312612 n & 15.6 & 14.8 & 0.8@xmath740.2 & 32 & 0.030 & 13.0 + iras 13335@xmath312612 s & 15.3 & 14.2 & 1.1@xmath740.2 & 57 & 0.094 & 13.0 + iras 13335@xmath312612 se & 16.0 & @xmath815.4 & @xmath30.6 & @xmath312 & @xmath30.0066&13.0 + mrk 273 sw & 13.6 & 11.3 & 2.3@xmath740.2 & 100 & 0.19 & 10.4 + mrk 273 ne & 13.1 & 11.5 & 1.6@xmath740.2 & 85 & 0.14 & 10.4 + iras 13443@xmath270802 ne & 14.6 & 14.1 & 0.5@xmath740.2 & 0 & 0 & 12.7 + iras 13443@xmath270802 e & 16.1 & 14.6 & 1.5@xmath740.2 & 80 & 0.11 & 13.8 + iras 13443@xmath270802 sw & 16.8 & @xmath815.3 & @xmath31.5 & @xmath381 & @xmath30.058 & 14.8 + pks 1345 + 12 w & 14.4 & 11.4 & 3.0@xmath740.2 & 100 & 2.1 & 11.4 + pks 1345 + 12 e & 15.6 & @xmath814.6 & @xmath31.0 & @xmath350 & @xmath30.054 & 11.4 + iras 14348@xmath311447 sw & 14.3 & 13.4 & 0.9@xmath740.2 & 41 & 0.059 & 12.1 + iras 14348@xmath311447 ne & 15.0 & 13.7 & 1.3@xmath740.2 & 70 & 0.076 & 12.1 + arp 220 w & 13.0 & 11.7 & 1.3@xmath740.2 & 70 & 0.021 & 10.1 + arp 220 e & 13.2 & 12.1 & 1.1@xmath740.2 & 57 & 0.012 & 10.1 + iras 16468@xmath275200 e & 16.5 & 15.0 & 1.5@xmath740.2 & 80 & 0.094 & 14.4 + iras 16468@xmath275200 w & 16.7 & @xmath815.6 & @xmath31.1 & @xmath357 & @xmath30.039 & 14.4 + iras 16474@xmath273430 s & 14.6 & 13.6 & 1.0@xmath740.2 & 49 & 0.11 & 12.3 + iras 16474@xmath273430 m & 14.8 & 13.7 & 1.1@xmath740.2 & 57 & 0.12 & 12.3 + iras 16487@xmath275447 sw & 15.7 & 14.6 & 1.1@xmath740.2 & 57 & 0.044 & 13.1 + iras 16487@xmath275447 ne & 16.0 & @xmath815.2 & @xmath30.8 & @xmath333 & @xmath30.015 & 13.1 + iras 17044@xmath276720 & 14.5 & 11.9 & 2.6@xmath740.2 & 100 & 1.6 & 12.0 + iras 21208@xmath310519 ne & 15.1 & 14.5 & 0.6@xmath740.2 & 12 & 0.016 & 13.2 + iras 21208@xmath310519 sw & 16.1 & @xmath816.0 & @xmath30.1 & 0 & 0 & + iras 23233@xmath272817 n & 14.6 & 12.7 & 1.9@xmath740.2 & 97 & 0.52 & 12.5 + iras 23233@xmath272817 s & 16.3 & @xmath815.0 & @xmath31.3 & @xmath370 & @xmath30.046&12.5 + iras 23234@xmath270946 nw & 15.2 & 13.7 & 1.5@xmath740.2 & 80 & 0.22 & 13.4 + iras 23234@xmath270946 se & 16.7 & @xmath814.3 & @xmath32.4 & @xmath3100 & @xmath30.16 & 13.4 + iras 23327@xmath272913 s & 14.5 & 13.2 & 1.3@xmath740.2 & 70 & 0.21 & 12.8 + iras 23327@xmath272913 n & 15.7 & @xmath814.9 & @xmath30.8 & @xmath333 & @xmath30.020 & 13.8 + iras 23389@xmath270300 n & 15.0 & 14.0 & 1.0@xmath740.2 & 49 & 0.13 & 13.7 + iras 23389@xmath270300 s & 17.1 & @xmath815.1 & @xmath32.0 & @xmath3100 & @xmath30.10 & 13.7 + iras 23498@xmath272423 nw & 13.7 & 11.4 & 2.3@xmath740.2 & 100 & 7.0 & 11.5 + iras 23498@xmath272423 se & 17.4 & @xmath815.4 & @xmath32.0 & @xmath3100 & @xmath30.18 & 11.5 + ugc 5101 & 12.0 & 9.5 & 2.5@xmath740.2 & 100 & 1.1 & 10.0 + mrk 463 e & 10.9 & 8.3 & 2.6@xmath740.2 & 100 & 5.5 & 8.5 + mrk 463 w & 14.1 & 13.3 & 0.8@xmath740.2 & 32 & 0.017 & 8.5 + mrk 739 e & 12.2 & 10.2 & 2.0@xmath740.2 & 100 & 0.33 & 9.9 + mrk 739 w & 14.2 & 13.8 & 0.4@xmath740.2 & 0 & 0 & + ngc 3393 & 13.0 & 11.9 & 1.1@xmath740.2 & 57 & 0.0072 & 10.0 + ngc 6240 s & 11.8 & 10.5 & 1.3@xmath740.2 & 70 & 0.11 & 9.3 + ngc 6240 n & 13.0 & 11.9 & 1.1@xmath740.2 & 57 & 0.025 & 9.3 + iras 20210@xmath271121 s & 13.5 & 11.0 & 2.5@xmath740.2 & 100 & 0.57 & 11.2 + iras 20210@xmath271121 n & 14.6 & 13.9 & 0.7@xmath740.2 & 22 & 0.0087 & +    lccc iras 05189@xmath312524 & 10.33 & 10.9 & 0.57 + iras 08572@xmath273915 n & 13.53 & 13.8 & 0.27 + iras 08572@xmath273915 s & 15.76 & 16.5 & 0.74 + mrk 273 s & 13.29 & 13.6 & 0.31 + mrk 273 n & 12.91 & 13.1 & 0.19 + pks 1345@xmath2712 w & 13.96 & 14.4 & 0.44 + pks 1345@xmath2712 e & 15.31 & 15.6 & 0.29 + iras 14348@xmath311447 s & 14.19 & 14.3 & 0.11 + iras",
    "14348@xmath311447 n & 14.92 & 15.0 & 0.08 +",
    "arp 220 w & 12.79 & 13.0 & 0.21 + arp 220 e & 13.13 & 13.2 & 0.07 + ugc 5101 & 11.77 & 12.0 & 0.23 + ngc 6240 s & 11.36 & 11.8 & 0.44 + ngc 6240 n & 12.72 & 13.0 & 0.28 +    lccccc iras 00091@xmath310738 n , s & 1.35 ( 15.34 , 15.67 ) & @xmath30.58 & @xmath30.76 & 1.2 & 2.6 + iras 08572@xmath273915 nw , se & 6.37 ( 13.66 , 15.67 ) & @xmath8158 & @xmath8176 & 5.5&6.1 + iras 12127@xmath311412 ne , sw & 75.9 ( 13.63 , 18.33 ) & @xmath863 & @xmath863 & 10.4&24.2 + iras 13335@xmath312612 s , n & 1.20 ( 15.20 , 15.40 ) & 1.7 & 3.1&1.6&3.5 + iras 13443@xmath270802 ne , e & 4.02 ( 14.52 , 16.03 ) & 1.6 & 0 & 4.8&11.3 + iras 13443@xmath270802 e , sw & 1.80 ( 16.03 , 16.67 ) & @xmath81.9 & @xmath81.8 & 13.4&31.7 + pks 1345 + 12 w , e & 2.31 ( 14.54 , 15.45 ) & @xmath819 & @xmath838&2.0&4.4 + iras 14348@xmath311447 sw , ne & 1.64 ( 13.98 , 14.52 ) & 1.3 & 0.78&3.4&5.2 + iras 16468@xmath275200 e , w & 1.19 ( 16.64 , 16.83 ) & @xmath81.7 & @xmath82.4&3.2&8.3 + iras 16487@xmath275447 sw , ne & 1.53 ( 14.89 , 15.35 ) & @xmath81.7 & @xmath82.9&3.1&5.9 + iras 21208@xmath310519 ne , sw & 2.15 ( 15.16 , 15.99 ) & @xmath83.9 & @xmath75&6.6&15.2 + iras 23234@xmath270946 nw , se & 3.70 ( 15.32 , 16.74 ) & @xmath81.7 & @xmath81.3&3.5&8.0 + iras 23327@xmath272913 s , n & 2.54 ( 14.29 , 15.30 ) & @xmath84.7 & @xmath810&12.5&24.1 + iras 23389@xmath270300",
    "n , s & 6.49 ( 15.08 , 17.11 ) & @xmath82.7 & @xmath81.3&2.3&5.7 + iras 23498@xmath272423 nw , se & 32.8 ( 14.08 , 17.87 ) & @xmath839 & @xmath838&4.1&13.9 + mrk 463 e , w & 1.74 ( 10.49 , 11.09 ) & 100 & 324&3.9&3.8 + mrk 739 e , w & 3.53 ( 11.37 , 12.74 ) & 28 & @xmath75&6.1&3.6 + iras 20210@xmath271121 s , n & 2.25 ( 12.76 , 13.64 ) & 15 & 66 & 12.3&13.2 +          - ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) and @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images of observed ( u)lirg nuclei .",
    "the field of view ( fov ) is 10@xmath11 x 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left . for iras 13443 + 0802 , 23327 + 2913 , and 20210 + 1121 , two separate images are shown because the largest separations of multiple nuclei are @xmath810@xmath11 @xcite.,title=\"fig : \" ] - ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) and @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images of observed ( u)lirg nuclei .",
    "the field of view ( fov ) is 10@xmath11 x 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left . for iras 13443 + 0802 , 23327 + 2913 , and 20210 + 1121 , two separate images are shown because the largest separations of multiple nuclei are @xmath810@xmath11 @xcite.,title=\"fig : \" ] - ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) and @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images of observed ( u)lirg nuclei .",
    "the field of view ( fov ) is 10@xmath11 x 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left . for iras 13443 + 0802 , 23327 + 2913 , and 20210 + 1121 , two separate images are shown because the largest separations of multiple nuclei are @xmath810@xmath11 @xcite.,title=\"fig : \" ] - ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) and @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images of observed ( u)lirg nuclei . the field of view ( fov ) is 10@xmath11 x 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left . for iras 13443 + 0802 , 23327 + 2913 , and 20210 + 1121 , two separate images are shown because the largest separations of multiple nuclei are @xmath810@xmath11 @xcite.,title=\"fig : \" ] +    -band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images with spitzer irac 3.6 @xmath1 m images of two ulirgs ( arp 220 and iras 16474@xmath273430 ) . the fov is 10@xmath11 @xmath12 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left.,title=\"fig : \" ] -band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images with spitzer irac 3.6 @xmath1 m images of two ulirgs ( arp 220 and iras 16474@xmath273430 ) .",
    "the fov is 10@xmath11 @xmath12 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left.,title=\"fig : \" ] -band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images with spitzer irac 3.6 @xmath1 m images of two ulirgs ( arp 220 and iras 16474@xmath273430 ) .",
    "the fov is 10@xmath11 @xmath12 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left.,title=\"fig : \" ] -band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) images with spitzer irac 3.6 @xmath1 m images of two ulirgs ( arp 220 and iras 16474@xmath273430 ) .",
    "the fov is 10@xmath11 @xmath12 10@xmath11 .",
    "north is up , and east is to the left.,title=\"fig : \" ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of infrared @xmath0- ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) and @xmath2-band ( 3.8 @xmath1 m ) high - spatial - resolution ( @xmath30@xmath42 ) imaging observations of nearby gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies , assisted by the adaptive optics ( ao ) system on the subaru 8.2-m telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the presence and frequency of red @xmath5 compact sources , which are sensitive indicators of active galactic nuclei ( agns ) , including agns that are deeply buried in gas and dust . </S>",
    "<S> we observed 29 merging systems and confirmed at least one agn in all but one system . </S>",
    "<S> however , luminous dual agns were detected in only four of the 29 systems ( @xmath614% ) , despite our method s being sensitive to buried agns . for multiple nuclei sources , we compared the estimated agn luminosities with supermassive black hole ( smbh ) masses inferred from large aperture @xmath0-band stellar emission photometry in individual nuclei . </S>",
    "<S> we found that mass accretion rates onto smbhs are significantly different among multiple smbhs , such that larger - mass smbhs generally show higher mass accretion rates when normalized to smbh mass . </S>",
    "<S> our results suggest that non - synchronous mass accretion onto smbhs in gas- and dust - rich infrared luminous merging galaxies hampers the observational detection of kiloparsec - scale multiple active smbhs . </S>",
    "<S> this could explain the significantly smaller detection fraction of kiloparsec - scale dual agns when compared with the number expected from simple theoretical predictions . </S>",
    "<S> our results also indicate that mass accretion onto smbhs is dominated by local conditions , rather than by global galaxy properties , reinforcing the importance of observations to our understanding of how multiple smbhs are activated and acquire mass in gas- and dust - rich merging galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}