{
  "article_text": [
    "recently , robots are used in order to complete tasks instead of humans in the place where a human can not enter .",
    "some of them are full autonomous , but even in the case of an autonomous robot , teleoperation is often necessary when the robot is applied to real missions , for example surveillance , search and rescue .    generally , in the human - robot interface for the teleoperation , images from a camera mounted on the robot are displayed . however ,",
    "if the camera is mounted on the front of the robot and its axis is fixed to the forward direction , it is difficult for an operator to recognize the width of the robot from the image and understand the relation between the robot and the environment around the robot .",
    "therefore , the operator has heavy workloads and a beginner can not remote control the robot well .",
    "in addition , in the teleoperation interface , when the communication is unstable , bad - quality images may be displayed and the images may have the delays , because the information volume of an image is large .",
    "when a robot runs on rough terrain , the images from the mounted camera on it are not stable because of robot attitude changes .",
    "it is very hard for the operator to watch these nonsteady vibrately images for remote control",
    ". therefore we should develop an interface to reduce the operator s workloads .",
    "to solve these drawbacks , some interfaces for teleoperation of a robot are proposed .",
    "yanco et al .",
    "analyze the real teleoperation tasks and find situation awareness is important to reduce workload of an operator @xcite . to improve situation awareness in the teleoperation , yanco et al .",
    "recommends providing the more spatial information to the operator . to display the robot and its surroundings , shiroma et al . attach a long pole on the robot whose top end has a camera @xcite .",
    "murphy et al .",
    "take vision supports from other robots cameras where the operated robot is on the image from a camera mounted on other robots @xcite .",
    "however these interfaces have disadvantages that the robot s size is increased or the mission often became slow because the operator should control two or more robots .",
    "nguyen et al . and saitoh et al . proposed the interface in which a virtual 3d environment including a cg model of the robot is displayed @xcite . and",
    "nielsen et al . proposed the interface in which a cg model of the robot and an image from the camera mounted on the robot are displayed on the environment map @xcite .",
    "however , these methods need 3d modeling or map building of the environment and it often takes much time to generate them . therefore , these systems are difficult to implement to robots in the disaster area where the robot has error of self localization and the communication is unstable .    to develop the interface which is robust against bad communication conditions and does not need heavy computational power and high cost sensors , matsuno et al",
    ". proposed an original idea of the teleoperation system using past image records ( spir ) , which is effective to an unknown environment @xcite .",
    "this system uses an image captured at a past time as a background image ( fig .",
    "[ i m ] ) and overlays a cg model of the robot on it at the corresponding current position and orientation . in this way",
    ", the system virtually displays the current robot situation and its surroundings from the past point of view of the camera mounted on the robot ( fig .",
    "[ overview ] ) .",
    "the system can generate a birds - eye view image which includes the teleoperated robot and its surroundings , and real time vibrations of the image is eliminated by using a fixed background image captured in the past time .",
    "the algorithm of spir is following : +   + ( step 1 ) get robot s position and orientation + the system gets current robot s position and orientation based on odometry , gps , slam algorithm and so on . in spir",
    ", the error of the position is canceled when the background image is switched , because the position of the virtual robot ( cg model ) is depends on relative positions between current robot position and past robot position that the background image was captured .",
    "+   + ( step 2 ) save the image and its position + the system stores images from the camera mounted on the robot on the buffer ( temporary memory ) as candidates of the background image . at this time",
    ", the system also stores the position of the robot as the camera position where the image is captured .",
    "the set of the stored image and position is called `` past image record . ''",
    "+   + ( step 3 ) select the background image + the system selects an optimal image as a background . in this study , the system switches the background image if the distance between the current robot position and the past robot position where the background image was taken is larger than a threshold value .",
    "+   + ( step 4)generate birds - eye view scene + the system generates a birds - eye view scene by overlaying a cg model of the robot at the corresponding current position and orientation on the background image selected in step(3 ) .",
    "+   + by iterating above algorithm , the system displays the birds - eye view image to the operator ( fig .",
    "[ overview ] ) .",
    "detail descriptions of the implementation of spir are reported in existing papers @xcite .      in this study , we focus on operability in the case of the narrow communication bandwidth . because spir uses discrete images , the load of transmission",
    "is reduced compared with traditional system which the operator controls the robot by using the images sending in the real time from the robot . however ,",
    "if the communication bandwidth is narrow , stored images in the database of the candidate of the background image may be too few .",
    "therefore , the system may provide a feeling of strangeness for the operator in the case of the narrow communication band , because the size of the cg model is changed significantly when the background image is switched .",
    "the longer the distance from the position where the background image is captured is , the smaller the size of cg model is .",
    "if the candidates of the background image are few , the distance may be long . in this study , we proposed zoom function to overcome this problem .",
    "moreover , in the case of the narrow communication band , transmission delay will occur . in this case , since the current position data of the robot also have delay , the position data of the cg model on the background image is not correct .",
    "therefore it is difficult for the operator to teleoperate the robot , because the operator misses the current position of the robot . in this study , we propose additional interpolation lines that the operator can predict the robot position easily . and the operator can use them as indicators for generating driving control commands of the robot .    in the section 2 , we proposed zoom function and additional interpolation lines in spir for improving the robustness against the communication delay . in the section 3 ,",
    "we show evaluation experiments in the outdoor environments .",
    "the section 4 is conclusion .",
    "when the background image is changed , the relative relation between the current position of the robot and the past viewpoint where the selected background image was captured is discretely changed . if the distance of the past viewpoints before and after the background image is updated is small , the system makes a frequent small change of the size of the cg model of the robot on the monitor when the background image is switched , as shown in the upper images of fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom ] . in the case of the narrow communication band , because many images can not be sent , the relative distance of two positions may be large",
    ". the big change of the size of the cg model of the robot in the background image as shown in the middle images of fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom ] is a source of the sense of incongruity . to overcome this problem , a zoom function is installed in spir in order to keep the size of cg model on the background image for every sampling time , as shown in the bottom images of fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom ] .",
    "we define a vertical angle @xmath0 of the field of view ( fov ) as a parameter of a zooming ratio .",
    "we explain about the calculation method of the vertical angle @xmath0 to keep the ratio of cg models on the displayed background images .    as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : calcangle ] , @xmath1 is the distance between the viewpoint of the background image and the current position of the robot , @xmath2 is the vertical angle of fov of the background image , @xmath3 is the constant height of the robot , and @xmath4 is the vertical length of fov positioned @xmath1 away from the viewpoint . the system should keep @xmath5 to be a constant value @xmath6 for every sampling , because if this ratio is kept , the size of the cg model on the background image is also not changed regardless of the motion of the robot . from the geometric relationship , @xmath7 we obtain @xmath8    in the case that the background image does not change ( @xmath9 in fig . [",
    "fig : zoom ] ) , the distance @xmath1 changes continuously , then @xmath2 changes continuously based on eq.([thetazoom])to keep @xmath5 . in the case that the background image is updated ( @xmath10 in fig .",
    "[ fig : zoom ] ) , the distance @xmath1 changes discretely , then @xmath2 changes discretely to keep @xmath11 . by changing the angle @xmath2 of the field of view to keep @xmath12 constant according to the eq .",
    "( [ thetazoom ] ) , even if the background image is switched , the size of the cg model on the background image is not changed .    in proposed system",
    ", we used the opengl and opencl functions for image mapping and image extraction .          if the transmission delay occurs , the current position data of the robot also has delay and the position of the cg model on the background image in spir is not correct .",
    "therefore it is difficult for the operator to understand the current position of the robot and control the robot .    to overcome this problem",
    ", we add lines on the displayed image generated by spir . by displaying additional lines",
    ", the operator can easily predict the coming position of the robot and control it .    in this research , we introduce two types of additional lines ;    \\(a ) extended line of front wheel axis ( solid lines ( a ) in fig . [",
    "fig : additional_line ] ) + this line is an extension of the front wheel axis of the robot .",
    "this line is overlaid on the background image according to the steering angle of the robot . because the operator can easily understand the center of the rotation of the robot , the robot can smoothly turn by fixing this line on the center of the corner .",
    "\\(b ) predictive trajectory ( dotted lines ( b ) in fig . [",
    "fig : additional_line ] ) + this line shows the predictive trajectory of the wheel of the robot . by using the predictive trajectories",
    ", an operator can easily estimate the motion of the robot . by collimating this line with the edge of the course or the center line of the road",
    ", the robot can run without swerving from the road .",
    "we valid the effectiveness of the zoom function and the additional lines in the case of narrow communication band as explained in the section 3 .",
    "the number of subjects is 8 , and we compared three methods : ( 1)normal front camera whose angle of fov is 60 degrees(front camera ) , ( 2)existing spir without use zoom function and not add lines ( existing spir ) and ( 3 ) extended spir with zoom function and add lines(proposed spir2 ) .    the outdoor experiment environment",
    "is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : course ] .",
    "this is a training course of a driving school whose size is about 120[m ] @xmath13 80[m ] and the length of the course is about 250[m ] .",
    "one subject remote controls the robot three times for each system and each system is chosen randomly . in order to cancel the influence of the order of trials .",
    "the system configuration of this experiment is almost same as the previous experiment in the section 4.1 .",
    "we use a ugv ( unmanned ground vehicle ) as a mobile robot developed by yamaha motor co. , ltd . as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ugv ] . maximum transrational velocity of the ugv is 1.0 [ m / s ] in this experiment . to control the ugv easily",
    ", we use a handle and a pedal instead of a joystick in the previous experiment .",
    "as we focus on the effectiveness of the zoom function and the additional lines , the experiments has been carried out without moving objects . in the experiment , we set the limitation of the communication band with the assumption of using mobile phone communication .",
    "table [ tbl : setting ] shows the parameters of image and data which are sent from the robot to the operator station in each system .",
    "these parameters in each system are set as the best values to remote control the robot with the limitation of the bandwidth according to results of preliminary experiments .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "in this study , we proposed a solution for problem of existing teleoperation system using past image records ( spir ) . to solve the problem of existing spir that is occurred under narrow communication bandwidth ,",
    "zoom function and additional lines are installed in spir . by the outdoor evaluation experiment",
    ", we can find that the proposed system is useful under narrow communication band . from the experimental results , we find that the proposed spir reduces the operator workloads of teleoperation comparing to existing spir .",
    "we would like to extend this system to the multiple - robots system in the future .",
    "a part of the results in this research was collaboratively conducted with yamaha motor , co. , ltd .",
    "m. baker , r. casey , b. keyes , and h. a. yanco : improved interfaces for human - robot interaction in urban search and rescue , proc .",
    "2004 ieee international conference on systems , man and cybernetics , pp.2960 - 2965 ( 2004 )    naoji shiroma , and noritaka sato , and yu - huan chiu , and fumitoshi matsuno : `` study on effective camera images for mobile robot teleoperation '' , proceedings of 13th ieee international workshop on robot and human interactive communication , 2004 .",
    "laurent a. nguyen , and maria bualat , and laurence j. edwards , and lorenzo flueckiger , and charles neveu , and kurt schwehr , and michael d. wagner , and eric zbinden : `` virtual reality interfaces for visualization and control of remote vehicles '' , autonomous robots , vol .",
    "59 - 68 , 2001 .",
    "saitoh , kensaku and machida , takashi and kiyokawa , kiyoshi and takemura , haruo : `` a 2d-3d integrated interface for mobile robot control using omnidirectional images and 3d geometric models '' , proceedings of the 5th ieee and acm international symposium on mixed and augmented reality , 2006 .",
    "curtis w. nielsen , and michael a.goodrich : `` comparing hte usefulness of video and map information in navigation tasks '' , proceedings of the 1st acm sigchi / sigart conference on human - robot interaction , 2006 .",
    "maki sugimoto , and georges kagotani , and hideaki nii , and naoji shiroma , and masahiko inami , and fumitoshi matsuno : `` time follower s vision : a teleoperation interface with past images '' , ieee computer graphics and applications , vol . 25 , no .",
    "1 , pp.54 - 63 , 2005 .",
    "naoji shiroma , and hirokazu nagai , and maki sugimoto , and masahiko inami and fumitoshi matsuno : `` synthesized scene recollection for robot teleoperation '' , field and service robotics , vol .",
    "25 , pp.403 - 414 , 2006 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> teleoperation is necessary when the robot is applied to real missions , for example surveillance , search and rescue . </S>",
    "<S> we proposed teleoperation system using past image records ( spir ) . </S>",
    "<S> spir virtually generates the birds - eye view image by overlaying the cg model of the robot at the corresponding current position on the background image which is captured from the camera mounted on the robot at a past time . </S>",
    "<S> the problem for spir is that the communication bandwidth is often narrow in some teleoperation tasks . in this case , the candidates of background image of spir are few and the position of the robot is often delayed . in this study , we propose zoom function for insufficiency of candidates of the background image and additional interpolation lines for the delay of the position data of the robot . to evaluate proposed system , </S>",
    "<S> an outdoor experiments are carried out . </S>",
    "<S> the outdoor experiment is conducted on a training course of a driving school . </S>"
  ]
}