{
  "article_text": [
    "as an answer to this question , i propose certain _ interaction rituals _ .",
    "some examples are marching , singing and noise making at street demonstrations before a physical confrontation with the incumbent power and dance and religious ceremonies before a hunt or fight .",
    "these rituals can ( in principle ) be performed by strangers with some shared cultural background , who thereby create fledgling ties and a preliminary group boundary .",
    "obviously , existing groups with a network have a larger variety of rituals to choose from .",
    "although interaction rituals cost time and effort , many can be executed at relatively low costs compared with the contributions that pertain to the public good , which are required anyway , without exogenous resources . therefore many ( newly - forming ) groups can self - organize their cooperation . in some cases ,",
    "an interaction ritual can already accomplish a collective good without additional contributions , for example a mass demonstration that convinces a government to change a law before riots begin .",
    "although this paper focuses on the difficult cases that require substantial contributions , the low - contribution cases can be largely explained in terms of recruitment into those groups , which has been studied by other researchers . to sharpen interaction ritual theory ,",
    "i apply a well - studied synchronization model in a new way . going beyond previous explanations and models that acknowledged the importance of networks ,",
    "the synchronization model predicts exactly which patterns of social ties yield cooperation more easily , i.e.  at a lower effort and , therefore , more quickly .",
    "the network measure that is used is called _ algebraic connectivity _ .",
    "it is high when the network appears roundish without large holes in it , whereas it is low for networks with skinny parts , large distances or highly unequal distributions of the number of ties ( relatively high maximum degree ) . by focusing on both network topology and shared intentionality ,",
    "it becomes clear why interaction rituals are widely used to encourage cooperation and why some rituals  with low connectivity ",
    "algebraic connectivity is also closely related to social cohesion .",
    "because information transmission through a network can be unreliable , cohesion was defined considering a multiplicity of independent connections , which happens to be mathematically implied by algebraic connectivity .    in many studies on cooperation ,",
    "network topology is ignored or abstracted away from , and in some experiments  without communication  topology turned out to be unimportant . in those experiments , subjects could respond to other people s actions in previous rounds by either cooperating or defecting with everybody in their neighborhood or group . for topology to have an effect ,",
    "however , people must be able to reciprocate the ( in)actions of specific people ; otherwise , free riding is inconsequential for some people whereas others are punished for cooperating .",
    "this coarse - grained behavior in the experiments is an artefact of their design , and is clearly inefficient , whereas for fine grained reciprocity with specific individuals , and for the diffusion of reputations , topology is important .    by",
    "far the best - known theory concerning the onset of cooperation among ( mostly ) strangers explains that a _ critical mass _ of initiators can win over the rest .",
    "below the critical mass , contributions typically have little impact on the production of the public good , and the question is how a critical mass can be formed .",
    "somehow , there should be zealous , heroic , resourceful , well - organized or like - minded people in the first place .",
    "the synchronization model can solve the start - up problem by explaining how ordinary people with heterogeneous ideas and commitments can reach a shared intentionality and form a critical mass .",
    "it does so without strong assumptions regarding individual rationality .",
    "critical mass theory , in contrast , rests on the assumption that people know the marginal effect of their contributions .",
    "this knowledge people may have in straightforward or highly repetitive situations , but under multi - fold uncertainty , people have no more than a hunch regarding their benefits and costs , and are sometimes fatally inaccurate .",
    "after all , people s cognitive limitations are an important reason for them to connect to others and to join interaction rituals in the first place .    in the next section",
    ", collins interaction ritual theory will be interpreted concerning its explanatory power for collective action , complemented with findings by numerous others .",
    "subsequently , the synchronization model will be applied , which predicts , with algebraic connectivity , that cooperation occurs in a burst , not gradually or sequentially .",
    "this _ tipping point _ is a second result , which is consistent with observations of , for example , collective protests , which are bursty indeed .",
    "the model increases the explanatory power of interaction ritual theory also in a third way . whereas collins took a mutual focus of attention and a shared mood as  ingredients \" ( 2004 : 48 )",
    ", the model explains this homogeneity as an outcome from initial heterogeneity , which is consistent with mcneill s empirical findings . after these predictions",
    ", simpler situations will be discussed , with uncertainty only concerning the number of contributors , not regarding the goods timing , benefits and costs .",
    "then , the onset of cooperation can be explained without rituals and synchronization , and a certain level of consensus will suffice .",
    "however , i will argue that algebraic connectivity is also important in these cases , and i will explicate topology s relation with social cohesion .",
    "collective action , social cohesion , consensus building and information transmission thus turn out to be interrelated by the algebraic connectivity of the participants network , which deepens our understanding of the relational foundations of social life .",
    "finally , dynamic networks will be discussed .",
    "to start out , members of a ( newly - forming ) group involved with a ( possibly ill - defined ) public good can perform certain interaction rituals .",
    "many rituals involve rhythmic entrainment , which increases perceptions of similarity .",
    "entrainment can be synchronous , evenly paced , anti - phase ( in partner dance ) , or sequential ( in a stadium wave ) and can vary strongly in frequency . in experiments that compare treatments with asynchronous and synchronous movements , contributions to public goods",
    "were significantly higher in the latter .",
    "interaction rituals increase solidarity , which denotes the bonding strength of individuals to an entire group , which is distinguished from social cohesion that describes the pattern of ties among individual group members .",
    "rituals may also increase the strengths of ties , which is discussed later .",
    "moral justification , religion or sacred values can enhance emotional intensity that further increases solidarity . for us",
    "it is important that when the uncertainties are higher and more numerous , stronger group - directed emotions should be aroused for solidarity to increase . a competitive group or an enemy can provide an extra push .",
    "rare but emotionally intense rituals , for example , initiation in the french foreign legion , have a stronger effect on solidarity than frequently occurring low arousal rituals such as prayers . for the participants to learn about one another s commitments , and to sense one another s body language and emotions",
    ", they should interact in physical co - presence , which is a key feature of interaction rituals .",
    "these co - resent interactions make possible for commitments to become ( local ) common knowledge .",
    "interactions can be initiated for the first time or can be based on an existing network . either way , interactions are modelled as symmetric ties @xmath0 ( and absent ties @xmath1 ) among the participants who are indexed @xmath2 and @xmath3 , and later generalized to ( possibly asymmetric ) weighted ties @xmath4 .    under uncertainty , the participants will have changing emotions and thoughts concerning their collective action(s ) .",
    "because our question regards the synchronization of the group , not the complexities of the participants psychologies , focal actor s psychological state is characterized by one variable @xmath5 that varies over time .",
    "if the difference between focal actor s state @xmath5 and her social contact s state @xmath6 is stable , their synchronization is higher when the difference is smaller . both fluctuating and large differences indicate asynchronous states . through empathy , a focal actor",
    "s state may change by the states of her social contacts ( collins 2004 : 54 , 78 ) , and a more different contact state has a larger influence on this change . however , if someone is simultaneously influenced by multiple people , the influence of an individual contact will relatively weaken amidst a larger number of them .",
    "therefore , the magnitude of a given contact s influence is divided by the focal actor s degree , just like in models of social influence and network autocorrelation .",
    "the effect size of social contacts states is also moderated by focal actor s solidarity : if she identifies strongly with the entire group , her contacts in this group will have a relatively strong influence on her , whereas if her solidarity is low , she is psychologically less affected by the emotions and concerns of these contacts . finally , a focal actor s psychological state changes in response to her own commitment @xmath7 .",
    "usually , people will have different commitments to different goods and goals of their group , which possibly but not necessarily correlate with their solidarity . for a given public good , the participants commitments are modelled as a symmetric single - peaked distribution @xmath8 that is mean - centred at 0 , for example a gaussian .",
    "to analyze the effect of interaction rituals , i use kuramoto s model .",
    "this model has already solved numerous problems in physics , biology , engineering , complex networks and computer science , thereby establishing cross - disciplinary parsimony . in kuramoto s original model",
    ", @xmath9 is a frequency and @xmath10 is a phase .",
    "obviously , people are no oscillators , but we can obtain tractability through these simplifications . reading the model s  coupling strength \" @xmath11 as solidarity is straightforward . in the model , time indices are dropped , @xmath12 denotes degree , and @xmath13 is used as a shorthand for psychological change , @xmath14 . using the variables that were just discussed ,",
    "the model for @xmath15 participants is :    @xmath16    in a moment , there will be variation of solidarity across individuals , @xmath17 , but in the simplest model version everybody has the same solidarity .",
    "the degree to which all participants are synchronized is indicated by an order parameter , @xmath18 . , where @xmath19 is the average phase .",
    "psychological synchronization can be approximated by heart rates in field studies or measured more precisely but more cumbersome by brain scanners in a lab .",
    "] analytic solutions were derived for complete graphs , wherein every node is connected to every other node and @xmath15 is very large .",
    "when solidarity increases , psychological states remain incoherent ( @xmath20 ) , and solidarity appears to have no effect at all . at a critical threshold @xmath21 ,",
    "however , there is a sudden transition toward stable , although not perfect ( @xmath22 ) , synchronization of a large majority , and eq.1 implies that commitments synchronize at the same moment .",
    "this two - fold phase transition to synchronization becomes even more  explosive \" when considering that solidarity varies across individuals and is correlated with commitments . is substituted for @xmath11 in eq.([synchro1 ] ) .",
    "]    this phase transition has also been found for many sparse graphs with ( much ) smaller @xmath15 . except for very small groups , social networks",
    "are sparse , clustered into subgroups and have skewed degree distributions and short network distances .",
    "solidarity is limited by the nervous system , and can not reach arbitrarily high values . for a social network to synchronize at a feasible level of solidarity , its connectivity must compensate for the differences among commitments or else the order parameter jitters and synchronization is not achieved .",
    "the stability of the order parameter is studied through the algebraic connectivity of the graph , which is denoted @xmath23 , and is the second smallest eigenvalue of the laplacian . and @xmath3 are adjacent or otherwise 0 .",
    "if in the laplacian spectrum , @xmath24 , there are @xmath25 ( near ) zero eigenvalues , they indicate the presence of @xmath25 ( almost ) disconnected graph components that wo nt synchronize with each other . ] a mathematical analysis of eq.1 shows that increasing a network s algebraic connectivity yields synchronization at a lower solidarity , with less costly rituals and more quickly .",
    "density , average distance and degree distribution do not generally predict this outcome .     as a function of solidarity @xmath11 , indicated by triangles and dots , respectively.,title=\"fig : \" ]   as a function of solidarity @xmath11 , indicated by triangles and dots , respectively.,title=\"fig : \" ]    to illustrate , fig.1 compares a wheel ( @xmath26 ) to a bow tie ( @xmath27 ) topology , which are equal in size ( 7 ) , density ( 0.57 ) , average distance ( 1.43 ) , degree distribution , degree centralization ( 0.6 ) , and coreness ( both are 3-cores - core , everybody has at least @xmath28 ties with others who in turn have at least @xmath28 ties . ] ) . in large graphs , @xmath29 below the critical threshold , whereas in our small graphs , @xmath30 jitters with time ( not shown ) but that means that there is no synchronization by definition . then , at a very small increment of solidarity that crosses the threshold , synchronization sets in and reaches a high value right away . for each of 20 draws of initial values ( from a uniform distribution between @xmath31 and @xmath32 ) and commitments ( from a gaussian with @xmath33 ) , the wheel ( triangles )",
    "synchronizes at a lower solidarity than the bow tie ( dots ) .",
    "the reason for the large variation of critical thresholds across these 20 draws is that synchronization in small graphs is very sensitive to small differences between initial values .",
    "sociologically , this means that individuals and their differences do matter for outcomes at the group level .",
    "algebraic connectivity can increase when the strength of ties increases , as a consequence of the interaction ritual , but people have limited capability to have strong ties , at the expense of other ties .",
    "this social _ homeostasis _ also constrains the total number of ties that individuals can maintain .",
    "the members can connect with strong ties ( @xmath34 ) only if their group is small and for a limited time . in fig.1 ,",
    "the bow tie s connectivity would double by a two - fold increase of all tie strengths , whereas relaying two ties to create a wheel has the same effect .",
    "relaying a given number of ties ( and keeping their strengths as they are ) is clearly more efficient . alternatively ,",
    "algebraic connectivity can increase by increasing group size , but because of homophily and homeostatis , large groups always cluster into subgroups . therefore , there is a  still unknown  maximum connectivity .",
    "this implies that the potential for groups to synchronize has a sweet spot somewhere in between small and large group size , and co - depends on the network topology .",
    "well - connected subgroups @xmath35 synchronize at @xmath36 .",
    "if the network is formed on the basis of homophily of commitments , such that the variation of commitments among subgroup members is relatively small ( indicated by the euclidean norm ) , the consequences for the critical thresholds of the subgroups and the entire group are in opposite directions : homophilous subgroups synchronize at a lower solidarity whereas the entire group synchronizes at a higher solidarity .",
    "although the latter challenges overall synchronization , it may happen that remaining ( asynchronous ) participants are an audience who supports the synchronous subgroups , which often occurs when small groups of street protesters confront the police .",
    "alternatively , the audience may be won over and join the action if the initiators form a critical mass .",
    "these audience members do not need to know the marginal effect of their contributions ; following initiators with whom they identify is sufficient .",
    "if an interaction ritual is in full swing and participant s algebraic connectivity is sufficient , the model predicts that their psychological states and commitments , respectively , fuse into one , which is necessary for cooperation under multi - fold uncertainty .",
    "the simultaneity of their synchronization will yield a stronger boost of emotional energy , or _ collective effervescence _",
    ", than if it were gradual or sequential .",
    "if , in contrast , the ritual is ill - performed or connectivity is low , emotional energy is drained rather than heightened .",
    "successful interaction rituals have a longer lasting effect on solidarity ( collins 2004 , p.149 ) .",
    "however , at some point during or after a ( series of ) collective action(s ) , the participants or their resources will be exhausted .",
    "then their interactions weaken and their solidarity decreases . if commitments are correlated with solidarity or with degree , there is _ hysteresis _ : the backward transition from synchrony to asynchrony occurs at a lower solidarity ( or weaker ties ) than the forward transition .",
    "the initial differences among commitments are then recovered .",
    "after a successful collective action , future actions by the same group will be easier to organize .",
    "cooperation under adverse conditions has a cold - start problem for people who have not yet formed a group , and can pose a threshold for existing groups .",
    "both cold starts and thresholds can be overcome by interaction rituals .",
    "in contrast with collins , who took a mutual focus of attention and a shared mood as a starting point for interaction rituals in general , the model captured cognitions and emotions as psychological states and explained their homogeneity as an outcome from initial heterogeneity  a substantial gain in parsimony and insight .",
    "the model , and algebraic connectivity in particular , increased precision beyond anything feasible with unaided reason , and the sudden phase transition showed the non - linear character of challenging collective actions .    when the uncertainties and expected costs are low , however , an interaction ritual is not necessary . in these cases",
    "it is often sufficient if people converse with one another regarding the public good , which establishes social ties and exchanges commitments , thoughts and emotions .",
    "face to face contact is therefore essential , whereas high solidarity is not , and synchronization can be loosened to a level of consensus that is acceptable to the participants .",
    "however , algebraic connectivity helps to achieve rapid consensus . in a graph coloring experiment ,",
    "algebraic connectivity was inversely proportional to the time to reach consensus .",
    "there , the subjects had to choose the same color as their network - neighbors , in highly clustered networks and in networks with randomly rewired edges  which implies higher algebraic connectivity than in the clustered networks .",
    "an easily obtained consensus is not always beneficial , though , and it can also be a symptom of groupthink .    for the diffusion of reputations under realistic conditions , social networks should be robust against noise  misinterpreted , wrongly transmitted or manipulated information  and node removal .",
    "these requirements motivated a definition of social cohesion as the minimum number , @xmath37 , of independent paths connecting arbitrary pairs of nodes in a network .",
    "this number is equivalent to the minimum number of nodes that must be removed to make the network fall apart . only in very small networks ,",
    "for example 7 members of a team , everyone can be connected directly to everyone else ( in this example , @xmath38 and @xmath39 ) .",
    "it was proven for all incomplete networks ( missing at least one tie ) that @xmath40 .",
    "algebraic connectivity thus indicates not only a synchronization potential in a broad sense , including consensus and robustness against small perturbations of psychological states , but also a lower bound for social cohesion and redundancy of information channels .",
    "low algebraic connectivity , in contrast , facilitates anti - coordination , e.g.  choosing a different color for oneself than one s neighbors in a graph coloring game .",
    "this anti - coordination is useful when group members want to differentiate themselves to perform complementary tasks .    to study dynamic networks ,",
    "the kuramoto model has been adapted as follows . in a simulation ,",
    "ties @xmath41 strengthen among people who perceive one another as similar concerning their psychological states , i.e.  an assortment of kindred spirits , which occurs under the constraint of homeostasis .",
    "a tie that disappears is modeled as a fading tie , @xmath42 .",
    "starting the simulation with a random network , of strangers who meet for the first time , and letting their solidarity increase from zero to a low value , subgroups emerge that are internally synchronous but mutually asynchronous . if solidarity continues to increase to @xmath43 , those subgroups merge into one synchronized group .",
    "when considering that solidarity varies across individuals , which is represented by a gaussian distribution of @xmath17 , it takes longer for synchronous subgroups to emerge .",
    "individuals with very low @xmath17 , for example people who take a passive stance in the ritual , stay out of sync with everyone else .",
    "as long as these individuals are a minority , the overall pattern is qualitatively the same as with one @xmath11 for all .",
    "synchronization interpreted more broadly is widespread in nature and in social phenomena , of which we reviewed several .",
    "other cases are energy demand that causes consumption spikes once consumers synchronize , which happens unintentionally despite policy against it , and traders at the stock market who reduce their risk of loosing money when they synchronize their transactions",
    ". the most widely known examples are conventions and norms , which also feature an opposition between easy local coordination versus difficult to overcome global anti - coordination , just like synchronization in homophilous subgroups versus overall synchronization .",
    "apart from energy consumers , actors across these situations have in common that they reduce uncertainty , at least locally .",
    "the main results of this study are that in general , the onset of cooperation is predicted to require less effort and occur more rapidly if participants network has a higher algebraic connectivity . alternatively ,",
    "if subgroups with high connectivity or similar members synchronize first , they can form a critical mass that wins over the rest . under multi - fold uncertainty ,",
    "a shared intentionality is necessary , which can be achieved by interaction rituals that result in a burst of cooperation .",
    "bilek , e. , m.  ruf , a.  schfer , c.  akdeniz , v.  d. calhoun , c.  schmahl , c.  demanuele , h.  tost , p.  kirsch , and a.  meyer - lindenberg ( 2015 ) .",
    "information flow between interacting human brains : identification , validation , and relationship to social expertise .",
    "112:52075212 .",
    "gracia - lzaro , c. , a.  ferrer , g.  ruiz , a.  tarancn , j.  a. cuesta , a.  snchez , and y.  moreno ( 2012 ) .",
    "heterogeneous networks do not promote cooperation when humans play a prisoner s dilemma .",
    "109:1292212926 .",
    "konvalinka , i. , d.  xygalatas , j.  bulbulia , u.  schjdt , e .-",
    "jegind , s.  wallot , g.  van  orden , and a.  roepstorff ( 2011 ) .",
    "synchronized arousal between performers and related spectators in a fire - walking ritual ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a significant challenge is to explain how people cooperate for public goods . </S>",
    "<S> the problem is more difficult for people who hardly know one another , their public good is unclear at the outset and its timing and costs are uncertain . </S>",
    "<S> however , history shows that even under adverse conditions , people can cooperate . as a prelude to cooperation </S>",
    "<S> , people can establish ( or reinforce ) social ties and increase their solidarity through interaction rituals . </S>",
    "<S> consequently , individuals commitments and psychological states may synchronize , so that they can depend on like - minded people rather than on a rational grasp of their situation , which is not feasible under difficult circumstances . </S>",
    "<S> a necessary condition is that the network that is formed ( or used ) during the ritual compensates for participants initial differences . </S>",
    "<S> a model shows exactly what network patterns are optimal , and it predicts that at a critical level of solidarity , a heterogeneous majority homogenizes in a sudden phase transition . </S>",
    "<S> this synchronization yields a boost of emotional energy for a burst of collective action .    </S>",
    "<S> * _ key words _ : * public goods | social networks | solidarity | synchronization | interaction rituals    paradoxically , people can act collectively  and effectively  while being tempted to defect and exploit the results of other people s efforts . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast to current models and lab experiments of cooperation , many of these situations are characterized by multi - fold uncertainty . </S>",
    "<S> examples are defending settlements , mass protests , revolts against dictatorial regimes and hunting large animals by ancestral groups with light armament . in these situations , contributing may be retaliated by the opponent ( or prey ) ; therefore , the costs can be unexpectedly high and the participants may be paralysed by fear . moreover , the public good itself may be unclear or have different meanings for different people , for example  democracy , \" and may be realized in the future , if at all , which implies that its future value is discounted in the present </S>",
    "<S> . however , history shows that even under adverse conditions , people often manage to cooperate . </S>",
    "<S> my research question is : how ?    in situations where most people are strangers to one another , for example east european protesters against communism in 1989 , they have a cold start problem . </S>",
    "<S> these people must determine the public good they actually want and how to achieve it , and they must become committed to it . </S>",
    "<S> high average commitments do not predict cooperation , though ; the lowly committed can free ride on the highly committed , who in turn may distrust the lowly committed and abstain from contributing . in experiments , cooperation was higher among people who were equally committed . </S>",
    "<S> however , homogeneous commitments are often also insufficient , because people may still may have conflicting ideas concerning what to do and by whom . </S>",
    "<S> thus , people must also synchronize their framing of the situation , their definition of the public good , and their plans of action ; in short , they must synchronize their cognitive - emotional states . </S>",
    "<S> finally , their synchronization of their commitments and of their psychological states must become common knowledge . </S>",
    "<S> then , people have a _ shared intentionality _ , which means that they know that other people feel , think and want the same as they do ; on this basis they can start to cooperate as a single - minded family .    to achieve a shared intentionality </S>",
    "<S> , people must interact first . </S>",
    "<S> established groups already have a network of relatively stable ties , but under multi - fold uncertainty , typical solutions to dilemma s of cooperation may not suffice ; then , people need additional means to get over the hump . </S>",
    "<S> although their network makes it easier for them , by providing knowledge regarding one another and sustaining norms that strangers lack , established groups have in common with strangers that they must reach a shared intentionality , too . the research question can be narrowed down accordingly : how can collections of strangers and established groups develop a shared intentionality under adverse conditions ? </S>"
  ]
}