{
  "article_text": [
    "atmospheric pressure is a fundamental parameter for characterizing the environment and habitability of an extrasolar planet .",
    "water s stability on a planetary surface as a liquid depends on both the surface temperature and pressure . while the freezing point of water is not strongly dependent on pressure , pressure does affect water s boiling point and sublimation .",
    "thus , a reliable estimate of the surface pressure is an important part of the measurement suite required to determine the habitability of an exoplanet .    despite the importance of atmospheric pressure , current proposed methods for measuring pressure using remote - sensing techniques that could be applicable to exoplanet atmospheres",
    "are challenging .",
    "the existing techniques include the use of rayleigh scattering @xcite or the widths of individual absorption lines @xcite or absorption bands @xcite .",
    "the presence and location of a blue rayleigh scattering tail in a spectrum can provide information about the existence and pressure of an atmosphere . however , strong blue absorbers in the atmosphere ( e.g. o@xmath3 , so@xmath0 , no@xmath0 and many others ) or surface features can mask this tail @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the rayleigh scattering tail is most prominent shortward of 0.6 @xmath1 m , below the short wavelength cutoff of the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) @xcite .",
    "lastly , planets around m dwarfs are likely to be the first to be characterized @xcite , and m dwarfs have relatively less visible - flux to rayleigh scatter than solar - type stars .",
    "the rayleigh tail would be more difficult to detect and characterize for planets orbiting stars of this stellar class .",
    "it is also possible to use the widths of absorption features to estimate pressure .",
    "pressure increases the widths of vibration rotation lines of gases .",
    "this method has been successful for the earth using high - resolution spectra of the o@xmath0 a band @xcite , for mars using co@xmath0 features near 2 @xmath1 m @xcite and the cloud tops of venus using the 1.6 @xmath1 m co@xmath0 band @xcite .",
    "this method provides unambiguous results when the spectral resolution is sufficiently high to resolve the profiles of individual spectral lines .",
    "it can also be used at lower spectral resolution , but requires prior knowledge of the mixing ratio of the absorbing gas .    here",
    "we explore the feasibility of a new method to directly measure the pressure of an earth - like atmosphere that combines the absorption features of dimers with those of monomer vibration - rotation bands to yield estimates of the atmospheric pressures even when the mixing ratio of the monomer is uncertain .",
    "previous pressure estimates using dimer absorption have been made for the cloud tops of earth , but these techniques have required prior knowledge of the gas mixing ratio profile @xcite .",
    "dimers are bound or quasi - bound states between two molecules driven together by molecular interactions .",
    "for example , the o@xmath0-o@xmath0 or o@xmath4 dimer consists of two o@xmath0 molecules temporarily bound to each other by van der waals forces .",
    "this dimer has its own rotational and vibrational modes , and produces spectral features distinct from its constituent o@xmath0 monomers .",
    "additionally , absorption from dimer molecules is more sensitive to pressure than that of monomers .",
    "the optical depth ( how much absorption occurs ) for dimers and monomers can be expressed by the following equations : @xmath5 where @xmath6 and @xmath7 are the monomer and dimer differential optical depths , @xmath8 is the monomer cross section , @xmath9 is the number density of the gas , @xmath10 is the dimer cross section , @xmath11 is the pressure , @xmath12 is the temperature , and @xmath13 is the path length . while the monomer ( e.g. o@xmath0 ) optical depth is directly proportional to pressure , the optical depth of the dimer ( e.g. o@xmath0-o@xmath0 ) is dependent on the square of the density ( and hence square of the pressure ) .",
    "this difference in pressure dependence allows us to estimate atmospheric pressure by comparing the dimer and monomer absorption features    for an oxygen - rich , earth - like atmosphere , the best combination of bands to use for pressure determination at near infrared wavelengths ( @xmath20.6 @xmath1 m ) would be the ( o@xmath0 ) a band at 0.76 @xmath1 m , and the 1.06 @xmath1 m o@xmath4 dimer band .",
    "the 0.76 @xmath1 m o@xmath0 a band is the strongest o@xmath0 feature in the visible - near - infrared spectral region , and is found in a relatively clean region of the spectrum between two water vapor bands .",
    "we have chosen the dimer feature at 1.06 @xmath1 m as the likely best option , due to its combination of band strength and its location in a relatively uncluttered region of the planetary spectrum .",
    "other o@xmath4 features overlap with water features ( dimer feature between 5.5 and 7 @xmath1 m ) or o@xmath0 vibration - rotation bands ( 0.63 @xmath1 m , 0.76 @xmath1 m and 1.27 @xmath1 m dimer features ) or are weaker than the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature ( 0.477 @xmath1 m and 0.57 @xmath1 m dimer features ) .",
    "nevertheless , some other features , in particular the strong 1.27 @xmath1 m feature , could be used if the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is not detectable .    in the proposed technique",
    ", the o@xmath0 0.76@xmath1 m ( monomer ) band is used to provide an estimate of the atmospheric concentration of o@xmath0 , and combined with the o@xmath4 1.06 @xmath1 m ( dimer ) band to constrain the atmospheric pressure .",
    "this method can be used with either transmission spectroscopy , or directly - detected reflection or emission spectra , and serves as a complement to pressure determination techniques such as rayleigh scattering , which only work in the visible .",
    "although the proof of concept is shown here with oxygen , this technique is not limited to the oxygen dimer in an earth - like atmosphere in the visible to near - infrared .",
    "the same technique is applicable to pairs of monomer and dimer absorption features across a wider range of planetary atmospheric composition and spectral wavelength range .",
    "in this paper we generated transit transmission and direct imaging reflected spectra for cloud and aerosol - free earthlike exoplanets .",
    "the models we have used to do this are described below .",
    "when an extrasolar planet transits or occults its host star , the planetary atmosphere is backlit and some of the star s light traverses the planet s atmosphere on limb trajectories .",
    "this transmitted light can be used to characterize the planet s atmosphere @xcite .",
    "this has been done for a number of jupiter- and neptune - sized planets ( e.g. @xcite ) and the super - earth / mini - neptune gj1214b ( e.g. @xcite )    the transmission spectroscopy model used here is based on smart ( spectral mapping atmospheric radiative transfer ) @xcite , which is a spectrum resolving ( line - by - line ) , multi - stream , multiple scattering radiative transfer model .",
    "we have modified smart to generate transit transmission spectra by combining the monochromatic absorption and scattering opacities for each atmospheric layer calculated by smart with the limb path lengths inherent in a transit transmission event .",
    "the transmission model included gas absorption , rayleigh scattering , interaction - induced absorption , extinction from clouds and aerosols , refraction and limb darkening .",
    "because multiple scattering was not included in the transit transmission component of the model , we have considered only cloud and aerosol - free atmospheres for this work .",
    "an important characteristic of the transit transmission spectroscopy model is the inclusion of refraction . as described in @xcite",
    ", refraction sets a fundamental limit on the range of pressures that can be probed during a transit , independent of absorption and scattering .",
    "light refracts as it passes through an atmosphere , with a larger refraction angle as higher pressures and densities are probed . for every planet - star system",
    "there will be a maximum tangent pressure in the planet s atmosphere that can be probed , because at greater pressures the light will be refracted by too large of an angle to be able to reach a distant observer during the transit .    for each tangent height in each atmosphere",
    ", we calculated the total angle of refraction for a beam of light emitted from the host star using a modified version of the method described in @xcite .",
    "their method was developed for calculating refraction for astronomical observations on the earth given a tangent altitude , apparent zenith angle and an atmospheric density profile .",
    "we calculated the angle of refraction over a range of zenith angles to determine if a path exists to connect the host star to a distant observer via the planetary atmosphere .",
    "transit transmission spectroscopy can not probe the tangent altitudes at which no such path exists .",
    "the radius of the star , planet - star distance and composition of the planet s atmosphere determine the maximum tangent pressure .",
    "the radius of the star and planet - star distance control the apparent angular size of the star from the planet s perspective .",
    "the larger the angular size , the greater the range of pressures that can be probed . for an earth - analog orbiting a sun - like star the angular size of the star is @xmath140.5@xmath15 while for an earth - analog orbiting an m5 dwarf and receiving the same total flux , the angular size of the star is @xmath142@xmath15 .",
    "therefore , transit transmission spectroscopy can probe higher pressures , i.e. see deeper into the atmosphere , for the planet orbiting an m dwarf .",
    "figure [ fig : refraction ] shows this effect by comparing all possible paths at one tangent height for a planet around an m dwarf and a planet around a sun - like star , with each planet receiving the same total flux .",
    "the composition of the atmosphere determines the refractivity ( index of refraction - 1 ) of the atmosphere .",
    "atmospheres with greater refractivities will have lower maximum tangent pressures .",
    "the refractivity at stp ( standard temperature and pressure ) can vary from @xmath141.5 times the refractivity of air for co@xmath0 to slightly less than half the refractivity of air for h@xmath0 , when considering only the common bulk atmospheric gases in the solar system .",
    "therefore , in general it will be possible to probe higher pressures for an h@xmath0 atmosphere than a co@xmath0 or air atmosphere .",
    "the reflected spectra were generated using the standard version of smart , which can include multiple scattering from clouds and aerosols .",
    "however , to maintain consistency with the transmission spectrum model , clouds were not included in this study .",
    "the reflected spectra were generated assuming a surface with a constant albedo of 0.16 , which is the average albedo of the cloud - free earth @xcite .",
    "we also assumed the surface is a lambertian scatterer .",
    "other surface types could have introduced an error into any quantitative estimates in this paper , unless explicitly included in a retrieval attempt .",
    "figure [ fig : albedo ] shows the wavelength - dependence of a variety of surface types from the aster ( advanced spaceborne thermal emission and reflection radiometer ) spectral library @xcite and the usgs ( united states geological survey ) digital spectral library @xcite .",
    "surface albedos are nearly constant in the bands considered here , though , for example , snow fluctuates by @xmath1420% within the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer band .",
    "we modeled a test case with smart with the snow surface to determine the error different surfaces can introduce .",
    "we found a difference of 15% between the seawater and snow cases when measuring the equivalent width ( defined in section [ sec : measurements ] ) of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer band .",
    "this difference was significantly less than the difference in measured equivalent widths for the cases considered in this paper .",
    "therefore , we have considered any discrepancies due to variations in surface albedo to be minimal for the present work .",
    "the cloud - free model atmospheres were generated by a one - dimensional ( altitude ) photochemical code with an extensive history in early earth @xcite , modern earth @xcite and exoplanet @xcite research .",
    "the planetary radius and surface gravity used were the radius of the earth ( 6371 km ) and surface gravity of the earth ( 9.87 m / s@xmath16 ) .",
    "the vertical grid consists of 200 plane - parallel layers that are each 0.5 km thick in altitude , in which radiative transfer , atmospheric transport , and photochemical production and loss are solved simultaneously , subject to upper ( stellar flux , atmospheric escape ) and lower ( volcanos and biology ) boundary conditions .",
    "the model calculates the mixing ratios of each species in each layer by solving the coupled mass - continuity / flux equations with the reverse euler method ( appropriate for stiff systems ) and a variable time - stepping algorithm .",
    "dimer concentrations were computed using estimations from quantum mechanical calculations .",
    "first , we fit the temperature dependence of the equilibrium constant for o@xmath0-dimer formation using the following equations : @xmath17 where p(o@xmath0)@xmath0 and po@xmath0 are the dimer and monomer partial pressures and @xmath12 is the temperature @xcite .",
    "the dimer mixing ratio was then computed as : @xmath18 where @xmath11 is the pressure in atmospheres .",
    "the choice of quantum parameters in our fit of equation [ eqn : kpt ] ensures that our calculation is a lower limit to the dimer concentrations , an assumption which matches modern atmospheric data well @xcite .",
    "the model atmospheres used in this study started with boundary conditions that reproduce earth s modern atmospheric chemistry .",
    "we then replaced the solar spectrum with the m dwarf spectrum described in [ sec : stellar - prop ] and decreased the surface albedo to 0.16 to account for cloud - free conditions .",
    "this `` modified earth around an m dwarf '' model was then perturbed to examine changes to both total pressure and oxygen concentrations .",
    "total atmospheric pressures of 0.1 , 0.5 , 1.0 , 3.0 , 5.0 and 10.0 bar were examined . at each of these total pressures , lower boundary conditions on o@xmath0 mixing ratios were set at 0.1 , 0.5 , 1.0 and 2.0 times earth s present level .",
    "this corresponds to oxygen mixing ratios from 2% to 42% , which is roughly the range of oxygen concentrations experienced throughout the past 2.5 gyr of earth s history @xcite .",
    "boundary conditions for all other species were held fixed at modern values .",
    "figure [ fig : profiles ] shows the pressure - temperature profile and volume mixing ratio profiles for the 1.0 times the present atmospheric level ( pal ) o@xmath0 cases for spectrally active gases in the wavelength region examined here .",
    "stable steady - state solutions were analyzed in all but the three cases with the highest o@xmath0 surface partial pressures .",
    "for those three cases , we extrapolated from our converged results at lower o@xmath0 mixing ratios by increasing o@xmath0 concentrations , scaling the dimer concentrations with the square of the o@xmath0 mixing ratio , and keeping all other gas mixing ratios constant .    for all tests presented here , we assumed earth - like temperature and water vapor profiles , precluding the need for costly climate simulations .",
    "more specifically , we took the modern earth temperature profile as a function of altitude , and computed the corresponding pressure levels assuming hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "this simplification provides a useful baseline , but limits the range of validity of these results somewhat because the gas absorption cross sections and number densities depend on these atmospheric properties .",
    "the impact of this assumption is assessed in section [ sec : sensitivity ] . for pressure / temperature regions corresponding to earth s mesosphere",
    ", we adopted a temperature of 180 k which likely overestimates the temperature in these regions .",
    "dimer absorption preferentially occurs in higher pressure regions and so is insensitive to assumed conditions in the tenuous upper atmosphere .",
    "our model grid was capped at 100 km altitude ensuring optically thin conditions for nearly all species , and made allowances for co@xmath0 and n@xmath0 photolysis above the upper boundary .",
    "we used the modern measured eddy - diffusion profile to simulate convective motion for all atmospheres regardless of pressure . while this simplification would affect the prediction of trace gas concentrations , all species analyzed here are either well - mixed ( co@xmath0 , o@xmath0 , n@xmath0 ) or short - lived ( dimers ) so are not sensitive to changes in turbulent mixing .",
    "we used the hitran 2008 database line lists @xcite to generate opacities in smart .",
    "the dimer absorption cross sections for o@xmath0 were taken from @xcite .      in this paper",
    "we have assumed that the planet orbits an m5v star , or an m dwarf with stellar radius of 0.20 r@xmath19 and a luminosity of 0.0022 l@xmath19 @xcite .",
    "the planet was placed at a distance of 0.047 au , so that the total integrated incoming stellar flux was equal to the total flux the earth receives from the sun today .",
    "an m5 dwarf was chosen for these tests because there is a high probability that the terrestrial planets which will be the most easily characterized in the near future will be orbiting this class of star @xcite .",
    "additionally , transit transmission spectroscopy can probe pressures up to the @xmath141 bar level in an atmosphere for an earth analog around an m dwarf while for the earth around the sun , it can only probe pressures as great as @xmath140.2 bars . at these pressures and lower , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is very weak , even at 200% pal o@xmath0 .",
    "thus , using earth - like atmospheres around an m dwarf instead of around the sun provides a better demonstration of the pressure - dependence of dimer features .    to simulate the spectrum of the star",
    ", we used a phoenix nextgen synthetic spectrum @xcite for all wavelengths greater than @xmath14300 nm . for the shorter wavelengths we used the uv spectrum of ad leo @xcite .",
    "the phoenix spectrum was normalized so that the total integrated flux was equal to 1373 w / m@xmath16 , which is the integrated flux the earth receives from the sun .",
    "the ad leo spectrum from @xcite was left unchanged , as it was already normalized to equal the amount of flux a planet near the inner edge of the habitable zone would receive .",
    "we have used a spectral resolving power of 100 to provide relevance to the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) , which will provide new opportunities for characterizing the atmospheres of transiting exoplanets @xcite .",
    "once the jwst is launched , the near - infrared spectrograph ( nirspec ) will provide spectra with a spectral resolving power ( r=@xmath20 ) of @xmath21100 between 0.6 and 5.0 @xmath1 m in single prism mode @xcite .",
    "we examine the effect of varying the spectral resolution in sections [ sec : resolution1 ] and [ sec : resolution2 ] .      to make a quantitative estimate of absorption strengths we measured equivalent widths for the reflected spectra and measured parts per million ( ppm ) differences in flux for the transmission spectra .",
    "equivalent widths were calculated using the following equation : @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the equivalent width , f@xmath24 is the flux at each wavelength @xmath25 , and f@xmath26 is the continuum flux at each wavelength . to obtain the equivalent widths , we first measured the area of the spectral band below the continuum .",
    "for each absorption band , we define the continuum by hand . for the o@xmath0 a band ,",
    "the continuum was assumed to be linear with wavelength , and for the 1.06 @xmath1 m feature the continuum was assumed to be constant with wavelength because in several of the cases the continuum at the longer wavelengths was difficult to define due to h@xmath0o absorption .",
    "the equivalent width is the width , in units of wavelength , of a rectangle measured from the continuum to the level of zero flux with the same total area as the spectral band .",
    "we could not use this type of measurement for the transmission spectra because of the difficulty in defining the zero flux level .",
    "therefore , we quantified the absorption strengths for the transmission spectra by measuring the change in flux from the continuum to the point of greatest absorption within a band .",
    "we performed detectability studies @xcite for the model spectra , assuming the exoplanet - star system is at a distance of 5 pc .",
    "we calculated the expected signal - to - noise ratio ( snr@xmath27 ) using the jwst exposure time calculator ( etc ) .",
    "the jwst etc includes background noise from sky , dark , thermal and zodiacal sources along with read - out noise and photon noise .",
    "the estimates provided are expected to be within 20% of the mission requirements .",
    "we note that for all the cases considered , the noise is dominated by photon noise",
    ". we do not include noise from detector intrapixel variations @xcite , but in principle calibration time could be devoted to mapping the pixels , as has been done with spitzer space telescope infrared array camera @xcite .",
    "we also note that noise levels within @xmath1420% of the photon noise limit have been obtained for transit transmission spectra with hst in spatial scan mode , wherein the target star is trailed during each exposure by telescope motion perpendicular to the direction of dispersion @xcite .",
    "spatial scan mode is being considered for jwst , and so assuming photon - limited noise in our calculations , while optimistic , provides a reasonable estimate of the detectability of absorption features ( drake deming , private communication , october 13 , 2013 ) .",
    "we assumed that every possible transit is observed in jwst s 5 year mission lifetime , ignoring decreases in integration time due to non - zero impact parameters ( where the planet does not traverse the center of the stellar disk and therefore has a lower transit duration ) and limits on visibility based on the ecliptic latitude of the exoplanet ( see @xcite ) .",
    "for the earth - sun analog , this corresponds to a total integration time of @xmath142.3 * 10@xmath28 seconds , and for the earth - m5v analog , an integration time of @xmath1410@xmath29 seconds .",
    "we normalize the solar spectrum ( using the phoenix g2v model available on the site ) to a johnson v magnitude of 3.32 and the m5v spectrum to 2.1 * 10@xmath30 erg @xmath31 s@xmath32 @xmath32 at 1 @xmath1 m .    at each wavelength within an absorption band we measured the signal as the magnitude of the difference from the continuum flux .",
    "the noise is expressed in parts per million ( ppm , 10@xmath29/snr@xmath27 ) at each wavelength .",
    "the final snr of the transit transmission spectrum is the square root of the sum of the squares of the snr at each wavelength in the absorption band divided by @xmath33 , which is included because the transit transmission spectrum must be calibrated against the out of transit spectrum of the star .",
    "we also performed detectability studies for the direct imaging reflected spectra that could be relevant to proposed direct imaging planet detection and characterization missions .",
    "for these calculations , we did not use an instrument simulator because the exact specifications for these missions are not currently defined . for each absorption band , we calculated two snrs , one for detecting the spectral feature ( snr@xmath34 ) and one for measuring the flux at the center of the band to a precision of 3@xmath8 ( snr@xmath35 ) .",
    "we calculated two snrs because obtaining information about pressure from a spectral feature requires more than detection ; it also requires a quantitative estimate of the strength of that spectral feature . to calculate snr@xmath34 , we divided the reflected flux by the stellar flux , defined a continuum and calculated the signal as the difference between the continuum and the normalized reflected flux .",
    "we assumed the noise is constant over the entire absorption band , and then calculated the noise level required to detect the spectral feature with a snr@xmath36 of 3 in the absorption band .",
    "the final snr@xmath34 is the mean of the continuum reflected flux level divided by the calculated noise . to calculate snr@xmath35 , we selected the wavelength within the band with the lowest radiance .",
    "we set the value of a second noise level as the lowest radiance divided by 3 .",
    "snr@xmath35 is the continuum flux level divided by the noise required to obtain a snr of 3 at the lowest radiance in the absorption band .",
    "we have generated transit transmission spectra and direct imaging spectra for atmospheres with o@xmath0 concentrations of 10% , 50% , 100% and 200% of the pal and pressures of 0.1 , 0.5 , 1 , 3 , 5 and 10 bars .",
    "figure [ fig : plottran ] shows the resulting transit transmission spectra for 100% pal o@xmath0 .",
    "transmission spectra of atmospheres with pressures @xmath371 bar are nearly identical for a given o@xmath0 concentration because refraction limits to depth of penetration to @xmath381 bar .",
    "the dimer feature is weak for pressures of 0.1 and 0.5 bars .",
    "figures [ fig : plottran-0.1 ] , [ fig : plottran-0.5 ] , and [ fig : plottran-2.0 ] show the resulting transit transmission spectra for o@xmath0 concentrations of 10% , 50% and 200% pal .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is very weak at all pressures for o@xmath0 concentrations at 10% pal and weak for 50% pal o@xmath0 , while it is very strong for pressures above 0.1 bars at 200% pal o@xmath0 .",
    "figure [ fig : plotrad ] shows the reflected spectra for modern o@xmath0 mixing ratios in atmospheres with a range of total pressure from 0.1 to 10 bars .",
    "the 0.5 and 5.0 bar cases are omitted from the plots to increase clarity , but are still included in the equivalent width and snr calculations .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is extremely weak for the present - day atmosphere , but in contrast to its behavior in the transmission spectra , it is a very prominent feature for the 3 , 5 and 10 bar atmospheres .    figures [ fig : plotrad01 ] , [ fig : plotrad05 ] and [ fig : plotrad2 ] show the reflected spectra at pressures between 0.1 and 10 bars for 10% , 50% , and 200% pal of o@xmath0 , respectively . in the 10% pal case ,",
    "the o@xmath0 dimer feature at 1.06 @xmath1 m is very weak because the total amount of o@xmath0 is very low , even for a 10 bar atmosphere .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is stronger in the 3 , 5 and 10 bar cases for atmospheres with 50% pal o@xmath0 .",
    "finally for the 200% o@xmath0 atmospheres , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is one of the strongest spectral features , even in the 1 bar atmosphere .",
    "figure [ fig : equivwidths ] shows the flux change for the transmission spectra and equivalent widths for reflected spectra at different pressures and o@xmath0 concentrations for the o@xmath0 a band and the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature . for a given o@xmath0 concentration the transit transmission flux differences for the o@xmath0 a band are roughly constant for pressures @xmath371 bar due to refraction .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature flux differences increase slightly with pressure but are also constant for pressures @xmath371 bar for a given o@xmath0 concentration .",
    "the dimer feature does not appear in transmission for cases with 10% pal o@xmath0 .    for the direct imaging ( reflected ) spectra , both the o@xmath0 a band and 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature equivalent widths increase with pressure and increased o@xmath0 concentrations .",
    "however , the dimer feature equivalent widths are much more sensitive to pressure . at higher pressures the dimer feature is strong except for cases with 10% pal o@xmath0 , in which the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is too weak to quantify .    figures [ fig : pressure - tran - only]-[fig : refl - only ] show the relationships between the quantitative absorption measurements described above and atmospheric quantities including the o@xmath0 mixing ratio and the o@xmath0 partial pressure at the surface . the ppm flux difference measured in transit transmission for the o@xmath0",
    "a band could be used to constrain the o@xmath0 mixing ratio , as shown in figure [ fig : pressure - tran - only]b .",
    "the o@xmath0 partial pressure at the surface can be estimated using the ratio between the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer and o@xmath0 a band absorption measurements .",
    "these ratios are shown in figure [ fig : pressure - tran - only]a using ppm flux differences , and in figure [ fig : refl - only - toto2 ] using equivalent widths .",
    "the o@xmath0 mixing ratio and o@xmath0 partial pressure at the surface can be combined to provide a unique estimate of the surface pressure of the planet .",
    "a more detailed description of the pressure measurement technique is given in section [ sec : measure ] .",
    "to quantify the errors introduced by assuming the modern day temperature profile , we generated spectra to test the sensitivity of our models to changes in the temperature profile and in changes to the water vapor profiles .",
    "we compared our 1.0 bar , 1.0x pal o@xmath0 spectra to a spectrum generated using the same volume mixing ratio profiles but with an isothermal atmosphere at 250 k. we also compared our 1.0 bar , 1.0x pal o@xmath0 transit transmission spectrum to spectra generated with atmospheres with 0.1 and 10.0 times the h@xmath0o levels .",
    "we perform a similar comparison for the 1.0 bar , 2.0x pal o@xmath0 reflected spectrum .",
    "figure [ fig : iso - comp ] shows the sensitivity of the spectra to the temperature profile , with our earth - like profile and an isothermal approximation profile compared .",
    "both the transit transmission and reflected spectra show little sensitivity to the temperature profile .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer band also shows little sensitivity to the temperature profile , despite the dependence of the dimer optical depth on the square of the temperature because the isothermal temperature profile approximates the average temeprature of the troposphere , where the majority of dimer absorption occurs .    figures [ fig : h2o - test-1 ] , [ fig : h2o - test-2 ] and [ fig : h2o - test-3 ] show the results for the h@xmath0o sensitivity tests .",
    "the o@xmath0 a band equivalent widths and ppm flux differences are not strongly affected by changes in the h@xmath0o profiles .",
    "however , changes in the h@xmath0o mixing ratios affect the continuum flux in the wings of the 1.06 micron dimer feature , complicating measurements of the equivalent width of this feature .",
    "for the transit transmission spectra , the change in the total ppm flux difference ( across the entire band ) is less than 20% between the 0.1 and 10.0x h@xmath0o cases .",
    "for the reflected spectra , the change in the equivalent width of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is less than 20% . for the reflected spectra , the equivalent widths can be much greater than that for the 1.0 bar , 2.0x o@xmath0 case .",
    "for these greater equivalent widths , the effect of increasing or decreasing h@xmath0o levels will diminish as the difference from the continuum flux ( affected by h@xmath0o ) and the flux within the absorption band will increase .",
    "table [ tab : detect ] shows the snrs for observations by jwst for the o@xmath0 a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature for the range of pressures and o@xmath0 concentrations considered here for an earth analog at a distance of 5 pc .",
    "the snr are calculated assuming that every transit of an earth analog orbiting an m5v star is observed over jwst s 5 year mission lifetime . in transit transmission ,",
    "the o@xmath0 a band snrs are no greater than 1.1 .",
    "the 1.06@xmath1 m dimer feature is detectable at a snr of @xmath23 for many of the 2.0x pal o@xmath0 cases .",
    "the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature is the most detectable o@xmath0 feature in this wavelength range , with snrs greater than 5 for many of the 1.0x pal o@xmath0 cases and greater than 7 for many of the 2.0x pal o@xmath0 cases .",
    "jwst will not be able to detect o@xmath0 species for earth - like exoplanets in secondary eclipse in the visible and near - infrared , as shown by the secondary eclipse snr levels .",
    "even for the highest pressure cases , the snrs are no greater than @xmath140.2 .",
    "table [ tab : tpf ] shows the snrs necessary to detect and characterize the o@xmath0 a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m band and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature for the range of pressures and o@xmath0 concentrations considered here for the direct imaging reflected spectra at r=100 .",
    "the snrs in table [ tab : tpf ] would be relevant to a direct imaging characterization mission .",
    "while these snrs were calculated for an earth analog orbiting an m5v star , the results should be independent of stellar spectral type because we divided out the stellar flux in our calculations .",
    "the o@xmath0 a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and 1.27 @xmath1 m feature are detectable at an average snr@xmath34 of 14 , 9 and 14 , respectively , for the cases when the features are strong enough to identify in the model spectra .",
    "the average required snr@xmath35 to use the features for pressure estimation are 11 , 31 and 34 .",
    "we examined the effect of spectral resolving power on the detectability of spectral features by generating transit transmission spectra for the 1.0 bar , 1.0x pal o@xmath0 case with spectral resolving powers of 500 , 200 , 100 , 80 , 60 , 40 , 30 and 20 .",
    "figure [ fig : specres1 ] shows the spectra for each of these cases .",
    "we also measured the snr of each feature at each resolving power .",
    "the snrs were calculated assuming a noise profile equivalent to the jwst nirspec noise profile , but with the noise level at each wavelength divided by ( 100/r)@xmath16 , so that the noise at each wavelength decreased as the resolving power decreased .",
    "figure [ fig : specres2 ] shows how the total snr in each absorption band changes with resolving power .",
    "in general , the snrs drop off rapidly as resolving power decreases for r@xmath3860 .",
    "we also generated direct imaging reflected spectra for the 1.0 bar , 2.0x pal o@xmath0 case at resolving powers of 500 , 200 , 100 , 80 , 60 , 40 , 30 and 20 , as shown in figure [ fig : specres - imaging ] . figures [ fig : specres - imaging - snrd ] and [ fig : specres - imaging - snrp ] show how the snr for detection and precision vary with resolving power for the o@xmath0 a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature .",
    "the snr required to detect each feature increases as resolving power decreases . at r=20 , the snrs are not shown because no spectral features could be identified , and at r=30 only the o@xmath0 a band was identified .",
    "the snr required to quantify the flux at the center of each spectral feature decreases as resolving power decreases , because the lowest radiance level increases as the spectral resolving power decreases .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is prominent in transit transmission for atmospheres with @xmath3750% pal o@xmath0 and surface pressures @xmath370.5 bars .",
    "it is a prominent feature in the reflected spectra for atmospheres with @xmath3750% pal o@xmath0 and surface pressure @xmath373 bars . for the reflected spectra ,",
    "the dimer feature equivalent width is highly dependent on surface pressure when compared to the o@xmath0 a band and therefore the dimer feature can be used to constrain pressure .",
    "here we discuss how to do this for the cases investigated here .",
    "figure [ fig : equivwidths ] confirms that dimer absorption features are more strongly dependent on pressure than monomer features .",
    "therefore dimer features can be combined with monomer features to determine pressure , even if the mixing ratio of the absorbing gas is not known .",
    "with only transit transmission spectroscopy , it is impossible to probe pressures over @xmath141 bar for the cases examined here , but it may be possible to constrain the o@xmath0 mixing ratio and set a lower bound for pressure . in reflected spectra , it is possible to determine the surface partial pressure of o@xmath0 and set a lower bound for pressure using the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature as an on / off pressure gauge . with both a transit transmission spectrum and a reflected spectrum , it should be possible to determine total atmospheric surface pressure for an earth - like exoplanet .",
    "transmission spectroscopy provides only a lower bound on the atmospheric pressure because refraction provides a fundamental limit to which pressures can be probed using this technique . for the spectra presented here , a lower limit of @xmath141 bar can be set for the high pressure atmospheres . for a given o@xmath0 concentration",
    "a unique estimate of the pressure can be retrieved from the ratio between the ppm flux differences of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the o@xmath0 a band .",
    "figure [ fig : pressure - tran - only]a shows the relationship between this ratio and the total amount of o@xmath0 above 0.9 bars , which is the highest pressure that can be probed in this particular case .",
    "there is a clear trend between this ratio and the amount of o@xmath0 in the atmosphere .",
    "when combined with an o@xmath0 mixing ratio this relationship can provide a quantitative estimate of a lower level of the surface or cloud - top pressure .",
    "the o@xmath0 mixing ratio can be estimated from the flux difference of the o@xmath0 a band in transmission .",
    "figure [ fig : pressure - tran - only]b shows the relationship between the o@xmath0 mixing ratio ( which is constant throughout the atmosphere ) and the o@xmath0 a band flux difference . for pressure",
    "@xmath390.1 bars the o@xmath0 flux difference is roughly constant for a given o@xmath0 concentration , meaning that a measurement of the o@xmath0 a band flux difference should correlate with the o@xmath0 mixing ratio .",
    "reflected spectra alone can provide an estimate of the surface partial pressure of o@xmath0 by examination of the ratio of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer equivalent width and the o@xmath0 a band equivalent width .",
    "figure [ fig : refl - only - toto2 ] shows the relationship between this ratio and the surface partial pressure of o@xmath0 .",
    "the strength of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature could also be used as an on / off gauge to set a lower bound for pressure .",
    "determining total atmospheric pressure with only a reflected spectrum is difficult due to degeneracies between the o@xmath0 concentration and total atmospheric pressure , as shown in figure [ fig : refl - only ] . for large equivalent widths of the dimer feature , the pressure will certainly be above 1 bar . however , it is difficult to differentiate between atmospheres with the same o@xmath0 surface partial pressure .",
    "nevertheless , it appears that it is possible to set a lower limit on pressure by measuring the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature equivalent width .",
    "for example , a 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature equivalent width greater than @xmath1410 nm would imply a surface pressure @xmath21 bar .",
    "if both a transit transmission spectrum and a reflected spectrum are available , it should be possible to directly measure the total atmospheric surface pressure in the absence of clouds .",
    "transit transmission spectroscopy can provide an estimate of the o@xmath0 mixing ratio as described previously .",
    "a reflected spectrum can theoretically probe to the reflecting surface and therefore can be used to constrain the o@xmath0 partial pressure at the surface . by combining the o@xmath0 mixing ratio and o@xmath0 partial pressure",
    "we can determine the total pressure at the reflecting surface , which could either be a reflective cloud layer or the physical surface of the planet .",
    "the methods described here could be used in the near future by the jwst nirspec instrument , which will potentially be able to characterize transiting planets between 0.6 and 5.0 @xmath1 m .",
    "the o@xmath0 a band will likely not be detectable for a nearby earth - analog with jwst .",
    "although this feature is strong in the spectrum , the sensitivity of nirspec is poor at shorter wavelengths .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is detectable at the 3@xmath8 level in transit transmission for cases with 2.0x pal o@xmath0 and high surface pressures .",
    "thus , the detection of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature would imply a surface or cloud - top pressure greater than or equal to 1.0 bars . for cases in which the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is not detectable ,",
    "the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature could be used to constrain the pressure .",
    "this feature is not as strongly dependent on pressure as the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature , but it is more detectable in all cases explored here .",
    "tpf , darwin or a similar direct imaging mission will be required to characterize the reflected spectra of nearby earth analogs in the visible and near - infrared .",
    "the snr values for secondary eclipse using jwst are all less than 1 , so jwst will not be able to characterize the reflected spectra of earth - analogs in secondary eclipse .",
    "table [ tab : tpf ] shows the necessary snrs to detect and characterize spectral features for a direct imaging planet characterization mission .",
    "while the snrs were calculated for an earth analog orbiting an m5v star , the results should be largely independent of spectral type because we have divided the reflected flux by the stellar flux in our calculations .",
    "the required snr values suggest that a snr of @xmath210 would be necessary to detect and quantify the o@xmath0 a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and 1.27 @xmath1 m feature for a true earth analog .",
    "however , because continuum brightness changes with pressure , a different snr criteria would be necessary for higher pressure atmospheres .",
    "for example , the continuum brightness near the o@xmath0 a band is three times lower for the 10.0 bar cases than it is for the 0.1 bar cases . for most cases",
    ", a snr of @xmath27 would likely be sufficient to set a lower limit on the surface pressure using the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature .",
    "clouds and aerosols will also affect the detectability of absorption features . in transit transmission , clouds can effectively mask the highest pressures of the atmospheres at which dimer absorption is most prominent .",
    "however , in partially cloudy atmospheres some of the paths will probe pressures as high as the maximum tangent pressure , and thus the planetary transmission spectrum could show evidence of dimer absorption .",
    "furthermore , absorption in the 1.27 @xmath1 m dimer band can be detected with snr@xmath21 in even some 0.1 bar cases , meaning that there could be a detectable dimer absorption signal for even a completely cloud - covered planet if the cloud deck pressure was @xmath370.1 bars . for reflected spectra",
    ", clouds will truncate paths before they reach the surface and limit the dimer absorption for those paths .",
    "however , for partially cloudy atmospheres , dimer absorption could be detectable in the paths that do reach the surface .",
    "additionally , because cloud albedos are typically greater than surface albedos , the presence of clouds will increase the continuum brightness levels and the brightness in the center of absorption bands .",
    "the increase in brightness has been shown to decrease the required snr to detect and characterize o@xmath0 monomer absorption in cloudy atmospheres when compared to cloud - free cases @xcite , though the effect of cloud albedo on the detectability of dimer absorption features has not been heretofore examined . therefore , while clouds will impact the detectability of dimer features , using dimers to determine pressure and as biosignatures may still be feasible for cloudy atmospheres .",
    "figures [ fig : specres2 ] shows the snrs for spectral features at varying resolving powers for transit transmission spectra of a 1.0 bar , 1.0x pal o@xmath0 atmosphere .",
    "the snrs for each band are greatest at the highest resolving powers , and then gradually decrease until r@xmath1460 or 80 , at which the snrs decrease strongly .",
    "this dramatic decrease with resolving power occurs because at the lowest resolving powers , the absorption bands are indistinguishable from the continuum .",
    "additionally , the highest flux levels in the continuum can not be resolved at lower spectral resolving powers , decreasing the total signal .",
    "this effect can be seen most easily for the spectra with r=20 , in which no absorption features can be identified .",
    "figures [ fig : specres - imaging - snrd ] and [ fig : specres - imaging - snrp ] show the snrs for the direct imaging reflected spectra .",
    "in contrast to figure [ fig : specres2 ] , these two figures show the required snr to detect and characterize an absorption band , not the snr that could be obtained with jwst .",
    "the required snr to detect spectral features increases as resolving power decreases .",
    "however , this effect would be mitigated because the expected noise at each wavelength should decrease as resolving power decreases .",
    "the snr required to quantify each absorption band decreases as resolving power decreases because the lowest radiance level increases . at r@xmath3840",
    ", however , spectral features are very difficult to identify , making these resolving powers unsuitable for detecting and characterizing o@xmath0-related absorption features .      in addition to their utility as pressure probes , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and 1.27 @xmath1 m feature could potentially be detectable biosignatures for nearby earth - like planets .",
    "the o@xmath0 a band has long been considered the most viable o@xmath0 biosignature , but it is unlikely to be the most detectable biosignature for an earth - like planet in transit transmission . as initially described in @xcite , lunar eclipse observations show that the 1.06 @xmath1 m and 1.27 @xmath1 m dimer features are more detectable than o@xmath0 monomer features like the a band , which is corroborated by our model spectra and detectability calculations .",
    "the 1.27 @xmath1 m o@xmath0 feature has been examined as a potential biosignature for ground - based telescopes by @xcite , but to our knowledge detectability studies of neither the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature nor the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature have been undertaken for jwst .",
    "our results show that the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature would be detectable with a snr of 5 for a cloud - free earth - analog at 5 pc .",
    "therefore , we conclude that o@xmath0 features , especially the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature , could be detectable biosignatures for oxygenic photosynthesis with jwst .",
    "clouds and aerosols will make estimating pressure using dimer features more difficult .",
    "a direct imaging observation of a partially cloud - covered planet will be able to probe to the surface for a fraction of the paths , such that the dimer feature will be weaker than for a cloud - free planet .",
    "cloud and aerosol extinction can also be wavelength dependent , which may complicate using equivalent widths or ppm flux differences to determine pressure .",
    "nevertheless dimer features can still provide a lower bound for pressure if clouds and aerosols can not be explicitly included in the retrieval method .",
    "higher h@xmath0o or co@xmath0 abundances in an atmosphere could also make this method more challenging .",
    "higher h@xmath0o abundances will make it more difficult to define a continuum for the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature , as shown in figures [ fig : h2o - test-2 ] and [ fig : h2o - test-3 ] .",
    "however , as discussed in section [ sec : sensitivity ] , the magnitude of this error should typically be less than 20% for most cases in which the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature could be detectable .",
    "co@xmath0 has an absorption feature near 1.06 @xmath1 m @xcite , which could make using the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature difficult .",
    "this could be overcome by modeling out absorption from h@xmath0o and co@xmath0 or by using other dimer features to supplement information from the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature , such as the 1.27 @xmath1 m dimer feature .",
    "lastly , not knowing the mixing ratio of o@xmath0 will make estimating pressure difficult when only a reflected spectrum is available .",
    "this is similar to the problem in using the absorption widths of rotation - vibration features to constrain pressure .",
    "however , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is more sensitive to pressure than a monomer feature , and therefore can provide a better estimate of pressure than a monomer feature alone .",
    "furthermore , monomer features can not be used as an on / off pressure gauge , while dimer features can .",
    "spectrally resolved observations of o@xmath0 dimer absorption can be combined with observations of the absorption by o@xmath0 vibration - rotation bands to provide independent constraints on the o@xmath0 concentration and the surface or cloud - top pressure in oxygenated atmospheres for planets around m dwarfs , and with low levels of co@xmath0 . even if a precise estimate for the pressure is not possible ,",
    "the presence of dimer absorption is indicative of pressures greater than @xmath210.5 bars in transmission spectroscopy , and greater than @xmath211 bars in reflected spectra .",
    "we have shown that this method is feasible in the absence of clouds for oxygenated atmospheres . for transmission spectroscopy",
    "this method can be used to estimate the surface or cloud - top pressure for o@xmath0 concentrations @xmath39 100% pal and for pressures @xmath20.5 bars . for reflected spectra this method will work if the o@xmath0 partial pressure at the surface is @xmath20.3 bars .",
    "clouds will reduce the absorption strength of dimer features by limiting the paths that can probe the highest pressures in transit transmission , and by truncating paths before they reach the surface in the reflected spectra .",
    "jwst may be able to detect the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m o@xmath0 feature for an earth analog orbiting an m dwarf in transit transmission .",
    "thus , while not all the techniques described here will be applicable to jwst observations , a lower bound on pressure could be set for an exoplanet using an o@xmath0 dimer feature .",
    "furthermore , we showed that a direct imaging mission operating in the visible and near - infrared like tpf would require a spectral resolving power of r@xmath240 , and preferably higher . at r=100",
    ", a snr of @xmath230 would be required to not only detect o@xmath0 related absorption features , but to also provide an estimate of an exoplanet s atmospheric pressure .",
    "we thank drake deming for helpful dscussions on the detectability calculations , and the two anonymous reviewers for their thorough and helpful reviews that greatly improved the paper .",
    "this work was performed by the nasa astrobiology institute s virtual planetary laboratory , supported by the national aeronautics and space administration through the nasa astrobiology institute under cooperative agreement solicitation nnh05zda001c .",
    "this work has also been supported by a generous fellowship from the arcs seattle chapter and funding from the astrobiology program at the university of washington under an nsf igert award .",
    "some of the work described here was conducted at the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with nasa .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system .",
    "no competing financial interests exist .",
    "belu , a.  r. , selsis , f. , morales , j .- c . , ribas , i. , cossou , c. , rauer , h.  2011 .",
    "primary and secondary eclipse spectroscopy with jwst : exploring the exoplanet parameter space .",
    "astronomy and astrophysics 525 , a83 .",
    "carey , s. , and 12 colleagues 2012 .  absolute photometric calibration of irac : lessons learned using nine years of flight data",
    ".  society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series 8442 , .",
    "catling , d.  c. , claire , m.  w. , zahnle , k.  j. , quinn , r.  c. , clark , b.  c. , hecht , m.  h. , kounaves , s.  2010 .",
    "atmospheric origins of perchlorate on mars and in the atacama .",
    "journal of geophysical research ( planets ) 115 , 0 .",
    "crow , c.  a. , mcfadden , l.  a. , robinson , t. , meadows , v.  s. , livengood , t.  a. , hewagama , t. , barry , r.  k. , deming , l.  d. , lisse , c.  m. , wellnitz , d.  2011 .  views from epoxi : colors in our solar system as an analog for extrasolar planets .  the astrophysical journal 729 , 130 .",
    "deming , d. , and 11 colleagues 2009 .  discovery and characterization of transiting super earths using an all - sky transit survey and follow - up by the james webb space telescope .",
    "publications of the astronomical society of the pacific 121 , 952 - 967 .",
    "deming , d. , and 20 colleagues 2013 .",
    "infrared transmission spectroscopy of the exoplanets hd 209458b and xo-1b using the wide field camera-3 on the hubble space telescope .  the astrophysical journal 774 , 95 .",
    "forget , f. , spiga , a. , dolla , b. , vinatier , s. , melchiorri , r. , drossart , p. , gendrin , a. , bibring , j .-",
    "p . , langevin , y. , gondet , b.  2007 .",
    "remote sensing of surface pressure on mars with the mars express / omega spectrometer : 1 .",
    "retrieval method .",
    "journal of geophysical research ( planets ) 112 , 8 .",
    "garca muoz , a. , zapatero osorio , m.  r. , barrena , r. , montas - rodrguez , p. , martn , e.  l. , pall , e.   2012 .",
    "glancing views of the earth : from a lunar eclipse to an exoplanetary transit .",
    "the astrophysical journal 755 , 103 .",
    "ignatiev , n.  i. , titov , d.  v. , piccioni , g. , drossart , p. , markiewicz , w.  j. , cottini , v. , roatsch , t. , almeida , m. , manoel , n.  2009 .",
    "altimetry of the venus cloud tops from the venus express observations .",
    "journal of geophysical research ( planets ) 114 , 0 .",
    "kasting , j. f. , w. a. traub , et al . ,",
    "exoplanet characterization and the search for life , white paper for astronomy and astrophysics decadal survey , available at : http://sites.nationalacademies.org/bpa/bpa_050603#planetarysystems    kawahara , h. , matsuo , t. , takami , m. , fujii , y. , kotani , t. , murakami , n. , tamura , m. , guyon , o.   2012 .",
    "can ground - based telescopes detect the oxygen 1.27 @xmath1 m absorption feature as a biomarker in exoplanets ? .  the astrophysical journal 758 , 13 .",
    "khler , j. , melf , m. , posselt , w. , holota , w. , te plate , m.  2005 .",
    "optical design of the near - infrared spectrograph nirspec .  society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series 5962 , 563 - 574 .",
    "meadows , v.  s. , crisp , d.  1996 .",
    "ground - based near - infrared observations of the venus nightside : the thermal structure and water abundance near the surface .",
    "journal of geophysical research 101 , 4595 - 4622 .",
    "pont , f. , knutson , h. , gilliland , r.  l. , moutou , c. , charbonneau , d.  2008 .",
    "detection of atmospheric haze on an extrasolar planet : the 0.55 - 1.05 @xmath1 m transmission spectrum of hd 189733b with the hubble space telescope .",
    "monthly notices of the royal astronomical society 385 , 109 - 118 .",
    "rauer , h. , gebauer , s. , paris , p.  v. , cabrera , j. , godolt , m. , grenfell , j.  l. , belu , a. , selsis , f. , hedelt , p. , schreier , f.  2011 .",
    "potential biosignatures in super - earth atmospheres",
    ". i. spectral appearance of super - earths around m dwarfs .",
    "astronomy and astrophysics 529 , a8 .",
    "slanina , z. , uhlk , f. , de almeida , w. , hinchliffe , a.  1994 .  a computational thermodynamic evaluation of the altitude profiles of ( n@xmath0)@xmath0 , n@xmath0-o@xmath0 and ( o@xmath0)@xmath0 in the earth s atmosphere .",
    "thermochimica acta 231 , 55 - 60 .",
    "spiga , a. , forget , f. , dolla , b. , vinatier , s. , melchiorri , r. , drossart , p. , gendrin , a. , bibring , j .-",
    "p . , langevin , y. , gondet , b.  2007 .",
    "remote sensing of surface pressure on mars with the mars express / omega spectrometer : 2 .",
    "meteorological maps .",
    "journal of geophysical research ( planets ) 112 , 8 .",
    "vidal - madjar , a. , lecavelier des etangs , a. , dsert , j .-",
    "m . , ballester , g.  e. , ferlet , r. , hbrard , g. , mayor , m.  2003 .",
    "an extended upper atmosphere around the extrasolar planet hd209458b .",
    "nature 422 , 143 - 146 .",
    "wakeford , h.  r. , and 15 colleagues 2013 .",
    "hst hot jupiter transmission spectral survey : detection of water in hat - p-1b from wfc3 near - ir spatial scan observations .",
    "monthly notices of the royal astronomical society 435 , 3481 - 3493 .",
    ".snrs for the o@xmath0 a band , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature for all the cases considered in both transit transmission and secondary eclipse .",
    "the calculations were done for an earth analog orbiting an m5v star at a distance of 5 pc . the total integration time was assumed to be 10@xmath29s , equal to the total amount of time spent in transit for this case over jwst s 5 year mission lifetime .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature could be detectable , allowing a lower limit for atmospheric pressure to be set .",
    "[ tab : detect ] [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]       monomer and dimer bands . for any absorption band ,",
    "as long as the albedo does not vary widely within the band s wavelength range it should be possible to measure an accurate equivalent width for each feature .",
    "the maximum variation within a band is no more than @xmath1420% .",
    "therefore we do not consider surface albedo variations important for this work .",
    "[ fig : albedo],width=302 ]    .",
    "the black dashed lines represent the surface pressures and top of atmosphere pressures .",
    "we use the modern earth temperature - altitude profile in all cases and calculate the pressures assuming hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "the remainder of the atmosphere is n@xmath0 for all cases .",
    "[ fig : profiles],width=623 ]    m dimer feature is strong only in the spectra corresponding to atmospheric pressures greater than @xmath140.5 bar .",
    "the spectra for atmospheres with pressure @xmath371 bar are nearly identical except for an offset because there is a fundamental limit on which heights in an atmosphere can be probed using transmission spectroscopy . for an earth - like atmosphere around the m5v used here",
    ", only the top 0.9 bars can be probed for all atmospheres at all wavelengths .",
    "this pressure corresponds to an altitude of @xmath141 km above the surface for a 1 bar atmosphere , and 19 km above the surface for a 10 bar atmosphere .",
    "the offset is due to the flux blocked by layers in the atmosphere with pressure greater than 0.9 bars.[fig : plottran],width=302 ]           but with different total atmospheric pressures . in the reflected spectrum",
    "there is no fundamental limit to which pressures can be probed in an atmosphere . assuming a cloud - free case , it is possible to probe the surface layers of the atmosphere .",
    "the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is fairly weak in the present day earth s atmosphere , but it is a very strong feature in atmospheres with greater pressures .",
    "the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature is very strong in most of the spectra .",
    "[ fig : plotrad],width=302 ]     but for an o@xmath0 concentration of 10% pal .",
    "for this amount of o@xmath0 , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is very weak .",
    "however , the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature is still quite strong.[fig : plotrad01],width=302 ]         a band and the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature at various pressures and o@xmath0 concentrations . in transmission , for the earth - like planet orbiting an m5v star considered here , only the top 0.9 bars can be probed , meaning the dimer and a band equivalent widths are roughly constant with pressure above 1.0 bars for a given o@xmath0 concentration . in comparison to the reflected spectra , the dimer equivalent widths are extremely sensitive to pressure . [",
    "fig : equivwidths],width=302 ]     partial pressure at maximum tangent pressure vs. the ratio of the dimer feature and o@xmath0 a band flux difference ratio .",
    "the ratio can be used to determine the o@xmath0 partial pressure . *",
    "( b ) * fo@xmath0 ( or o@xmath0 mixing ratio ) vs a band flux difference .",
    "the a band flux difference is roughly constant for a given o@xmath0 mixing ratio .",
    "[ fig : pressure - tran - only],width=623 ]     vs the ratio of the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature equivalent width to the o@xmath0 a band equivalent width for the reflected spectrum .",
    "there is a trend between this ratio and the total amount of o@xmath0 .",
    "this could be used as a way to estimate the pressure if a transmission spectrum is not available .",
    "[ fig : refl - only - toto2],width=302 ]       ( blue ) and an isothermal atmosphere at 250k with the same pressure - composition profiles ( green ) . in both cases ,",
    "the spectra for the calculated temperature - pressure profile and the isothermal profile are very similar , showing that the spectra are not strongly dependent on the temperature profile .",
    ", width=302 ]     earth analog with h@xmath0o concentrations varying from 0.1 to 10.0x pal h@xmath0o . while h@xmath0o absorbs near the wings of the o@xmath0 a band the ppm flux difference and the snr",
    "do not change greatly as the h@xmath0o concentration changes .",
    "the continuum near the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature is strongly affected by the increases in h@xmath0o . however , the magnitude of the change in the ppm flux difference over the entire band and the snr is less than 20% when comparing the 1.0x pal h@xmath0o case to either the 0.1 or 10.0x h@xmath0o cases .",
    "[ fig : h2o - test-1],width=302 ]    m dimer feature in transit transmission with different amounts of h@xmath0o .",
    "the spectra have been artificially offset for ease of viewing .",
    "the black dashed lines are spectra that do not include any o@xmath0 dimer absorption and are included to help show the continuum flux level .",
    "the total ppm flux difference and snr for the dimer band vary by less than 20% with respect to the 1.0xh@xmath0o case.[fig : h2o - test-2 ] , width=302 ]    m dimer feature in the direct beam reflected spectra with varying amounts of h@xmath0o for an earth analog with a 1.0 bar , 2.0x pal o@xmath0 atmosphere .",
    "there is an artificial offset for ease of viewing , and the black dashed lines are spectra that do not include any o@xmath0 dimer absorption .",
    "as in transit transmission , the snr of the dimer feature varies by less than 20% with respect to the 1.0x h@xmath0o case . additionally , the snrs for higher pressure cases should be less affected by changes in h@xmath0o concentrations because of greater absorption within the dimer band.[fig : h2o - test-3],width=302 ]     case at various spectral resolving powers .",
    "the wavelengths for the o@xmath0 a band , the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer band , and the 1.27 @xmath1 m band are highlighted .",
    "an artificial offset has been added to the spectra for ease of viewing . at the lowest resolving powers , it is difficult to identify spectral features . [",
    "fig : specres1],width=302 ]    .",
    "the snrs decrease as resolving power decreases because the absorption bands can no longer be resolved from the continuum . for r=30 and",
    "r=20 it is very difficult to identify any of the o@xmath0 spectral features .",
    "[ fig : specres2],width=302 ]     a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and 1.27 @xmath1 m feature are highlighted . at resolving powers of r=30 and",
    "r=20 it is difficult to identify any o@xmath0 absorption features.[fig : specres - imaging ] , width=302 ]     a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature for direct imaging reflected spectra . as resolving power decreases",
    ", the required snr to detect each feature increases because the continuum level decreases , resulting in a lower overall signal in the absorption band .",
    "furthermore , at the lowest resolutions the absorption bands can not be resolved .",
    "thus , this decreases the measurable signal even more , leading to an increase in the required snr .",
    "[ fig : specres - imaging - snrd ] , width=302 ]     in the center of the absorption band ( defined as the lowest flux level ) for the o@xmath0 a band , 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature and the 1.27 @xmath1 m feature .",
    "the snr required for this level of precision decreases as resolving power decreases because the flux is averaged over fewer wavelength bins , leading to an increase in the lowest flux .",
    "this decrease in required resolving power occurs for all three absorption features , though the trend is most apparent for the o@xmath0 a band , as it has the narrowest spectral shape of the three features considered here .",
    "[ fig : specres - imaging - snrp ] , width=302 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a new method to probe atmospheric pressure on earthlike planets using ( o@xmath0-o@xmath0 ) dimers in the near - infrared . </S>",
    "<S> we also show that dimer features could be the most readily detectable biosignatures for earthlike atmospheres , and may even be detectable in transit transmission with the james webb space telescope ( jwst ) . </S>",
    "<S> the absorption by dimers changes more rapidly with pressure and density than that of monomers , and can therefore provide additional information about atmospheric pressures . by comparing the absorption strengths of rotational and vibrational features to the absorption strengths of dimer features , </S>",
    "<S> we show that in some cases it may be possible to estimate the pressure at the reflecting surface of a planet . </S>",
    "<S> this method is demonstrated by using the o@xmath0 a band and the 1.06 @xmath1 m dimer feature , either in transmission or reflected spectra . </S>",
    "<S> it works best for planets around m dwarfs with atmospheric pressures between 0.1 and 10 bars , and for o@xmath0 volume mixing ratios above 50% of earth s present day level . furthermore , unlike observations of rayleigh scattering , this method can be used at wavelengths longer than 0.6 @xmath1 m , and is therefore potentially applicable , although challenging , to near - term planet characterization missions such as jwst . </S>",
    "<S> we have also performed detectability studies for jwst transit transmission spectroscopy and find that the 1.06 @xmath1 m and 1.27 @xmath1 m dimer features could be detectable ( snr@xmath23 ) for an earth - analog orbiting an m5v star at a distance of 5 pc . </S>",
    "<S> the detection of these features could provide a constraint on the atmospheric pressure of an exoplanet , and serve as biosignatures for oxygenic photosynthesis . </S>",
    "<S> we have calculated the required signal - to - noise ratios to detect and characterize o@xmath0 monomer and dimer features in direct imaging reflected spectra and find that signal - to - noise ratios greater than 10 at a spectral resolving power of r=100 would be required . </S>"
  ]
}