{
  "article_text": [
    "charge - coupled device ( ccd ) detectors have been used in x - ray detection and spectroscopy for over a decade .",
    "complementary metal - oxide - semiconductor ( cmos ) sensors have recently begun to be used similarly .",
    "since a cellphone contains a cmos sensor and computational ability , the cellrad project @xcite was created to characterize the cellphone s ability as a gamma radiation sensor .",
    "this project tested both the ability of the cellphone to operate as a simple dose rate sensor , and  when using additional processing on the server side  to do low resolution spectroscopy .",
    "for these tests , the lens is covered with electrical tape to block the light , but otherwise the only modification to the cellphone is the addition of software .",
    "ccd have been used for x - ray detection and spectroscopy @xcite .",
    "the ccds are typically cooled to reduce the generation of dark current @xcite .",
    "the amplification of ccd ( which is used to determine the energy in electron volts deposited per pixel ) can be simply measured if access to the raw pixel values are available @xcite .",
    "cmos have not typically been used because of lower signal - to - noise ratio and lower dynamic range . however , lower cost and power are two advantages to using cmos , and while cmos technology is improving and there are mitigations for reducing the noise @xcite . for x - ray spectroscopy , for many events ,",
    "all the energy is deposited in a single pixel or a group of pixels , and then this energy can be directly measured @xcite .    using the camera in a cellphone to detect radiation has been proposed @xcite , and several applications are now commercially available @xcite .",
    "radioactive sources produce ionizing radiation every time a single atom decays into another atom .",
    "this ionizing radiation can come in several forms including beta ( which are high - energy electrons ) , alpha ( which is a helium nucleus ) , and gamma ( which are high energy photons ) .",
    "the beta and alpha particles will be stopped fairly quickly when they travel through material , but the gamma photons can travel long distances before being absorbed .",
    "different isotopes produce different types of ionizing radiation and different energies of the radiation .",
    "for example @xmath0cs produces 662 kev photons , but @xmath1co produces 1173 and 1332 kev photons .",
    "ordinary light is non - ionizing and has much lower energies that are in the ev range .",
    "for example the photons for red light have about 1.77 ev of energy , and the range goes up to 3.10 ev for violet light photons .",
    "the photons interact in a variety of ways with the material .",
    "the most important for cellrad are the photoelectric effect and compton scattering .",
    "the photoelectric effect is dominate at lower energies .",
    "for example , almost all visible light photons that a material absorbs will be absorbed by the photoelectric effect . in the photoelectric effect",
    ", the incoming photon s energy is completely absorbed , and the energy is transferred to an electron that is ionized ( that is , stripped off of an atom ) .",
    "compton scattering is dominate at intermediate energies around 1 mev . in compton scattering , the incoming photon transfers some of its energy to the electron that it ionizes .",
    "this results in the ionized electron having only part of the energy of the photon , so the energy will vary @xcite .",
    "the relation between the angle of the electron , the energy of the electron , and the energy of incoming photon in compton scattering is :    @xmath2    where @xmath3 is the energy of the electron , @xmath4 is the energy of the photon , @xmath5 is the angle the electron scatters and @xmath6 is approximately 511 kev .",
    "figure [ angle_to_energy_compton ] shows two different distributions of this equation .",
    "the ionized electrons may have energy that is much higher than the energy required to ionize a single electron . in that case",
    ", the high energy electrons will ionize secondary electrons , which will continue until the energy has been lowered significantly .",
    "a 20 kev electron might ionize 10,000 secondary electrons .",
    "electrons with high enough energies will leave trails of ionization as they travel through the material .",
    "the higher the energy , the less energy that an electron will typically leave in a given distance ( which is related to stopping power ) .",
    "m ) sensitive depth spectrum ]    m ) sensitive depth spectrum ]    m ) sensitive depth spectrum ]    in order to help understand the physics of electrons in silicon , several experiments were run using silicon surface barrier detectors . the depth of the sensitive region is not a number that manufacturers of cmos cameras provide , but review of the literature gives an estimate that the thickness is in the range of 10 microns to 0.1 microns @xcite .",
    "silicon surface barrier detectors were used as a proxy for a cellphone camera .",
    "three detectors were used .",
    "the largest was a cam passivated implanted planar silicon ( pips ) detector produced by canberra industries , inc which had a sensitive depth ( for beta particles ) of 315 microns .",
    "the two smaller surface barrier detectors were produced by ortec advanced measurement technology , inc .",
    "they are both d - series planar totally depleted silicon surface barrier detectors .",
    "these detectors were chosen because they are very thin , only 36.4 and 8.8 microns respectively .",
    "the smaller detector is similar in thickness to a pixel in a digital camera .",
    "for all semiconductor radiation detector measurements , an smb connector attached the detector signal cable to an ortec model 142b pre - amplifier , then on to an ortec model 572 amplifier and an ortec model 927 aspec mca .",
    "the voltage was supplied by a canberra model 3102d hv supply .",
    "even with the thickest detector used in these experiments , energy spectrum determination is difficult , because of the size of the detector only part of the energy of the gamma ray remains in the detector .",
    "compton edges can be seen in figure [ sb300_spectrum ] .",
    "the compton edge for @xmath7am at 11 kev can be seen distinctly . however , as the energy of the gamma ray increases the compton edges become smeared out , and the ones at 963 kev and 1117 kev for @xmath1co are not clear .",
    "essentially , the higher the energy of the electron , the higher the probability that it will exit the detector with significant energy , instead of depositing the full energy of the compton scattered electron .",
    "when the thinner 36.4 micron detector is used , only the @xmath7am retains significant structure in figure [ sb45_spectrum ] ( note that the number of channels is decreased in the graph because less energy was deposited ) . with the thinnest detector",
    ", there is very little spectrum information remaining in figure [ sb15_spectrum ] and much smaller amounts of energy deposited . from this data",
    ", direct measurement of the energy spectrum is expected to be difficult to impossible with a cellphone camera that has a sensitive region with a thickness around 10 microns or less .",
    "ccd and cmos cameras work with visible light by using the photoelectric effect . photons with energies between 1.1 ev to 3.1 ev ionize one electron creating a single electron - hole pair @xcite .",
    "this electron is then captured in the depletion region of a photodiode or capacitor .",
    "an electric field is used to separate the electron from the hole in the depletion region , otherwise they might recombine . after the collection time has passed , the total number of electrons is measured and this measurement is used to determine the brightness for that particular pixel . for ccd cameras ,",
    "the electrons are transferred to a common amplifier and analog to digital converter . for cmos cameras",
    "every pixel has at least one active transistor , so part of the amplification and measurement occurs at each pixel @xcite . besides photons causing ionized electrons , electrons can also be produced by leaky circuits and by heat .",
    "these electrons result in signal even when there is no light .",
    "these effects tend to be similar from image to image with the same sensor ; when the same sensor is the same temperature , the defects are even more similar from picture to picture .    for creating colored images , the pixels have different filters put between the lens and the pixel , which only let a specific color through .",
    "for example , the first row of pixels might be red green r g r g  and the second row would be green blue g b g b  @xcite these individual colors are combined together to create the full image .",
    "note that the full image that is returned usually interpolates the colors to find an individual pixel , so it includes data from multiple pixels ( so the first pixel would get most of its red data from the physical r , but the g would be interpolated from the nearby physical pixels ) . for detecting radiation",
    ", the color processing makes determining actual energy deposited on the physical pixels very difficult . for radiation detection , the camera",
    "is covered so there is no signal from light .",
    "the images also are often compressed , which for `` lossy '' formats such as jpeg , results in compression artifacts .",
    "the gamma rays continually produce ionized electrons .",
    "when there is an electric field present , the electrons will be collected , but otherwise they will recombine with holes during the period between each image collection .",
    "several different preliminary image processing techniques have been tested to try and remove the non - signal from the images .",
    "all these methods involve looking at multiple images , and processing each component ( red , green , blue ) of each pixel individually .",
    "these methods deal with two effects : one is thermal noise , which increases as the temperature increases , and other is pixels that are defective .",
    "the defective pixels , or ` bad pixels ' will show up as bright points , and some of them only light up periodically , so looking at only two pictures can result in miscategorizing the bad pixel as actual signal .",
    "the simplest method for noise removal is to take the median value of the image , and then subtract that from all the images .",
    "this however will still leave excess noise since some of the noise will be above the median value .",
    "the next two methods use statistics to try and find the signal .",
    "some of the bad pixels do not have constant values , so they ca nt simply be subtracted off .",
    "one method is to calculate the standard deviation and the mean , and then the background image is the highest value that is less than @xmath8 :    @xmath9    where @xmath10 is the set of pixels at a specific location and specific component ( for example the red component of pixels at 6,3 in all the images ) and @xmath11 in the mean of the set and @xmath12 is the standard deviation of the set . a second method is to calculate out a signal image by using the kurtosis .",
    "the kurtosis is the fourth moment @xmath13)^4]}{e[(x - e[x])^2]^2}-3 $ ] , and when the kurtosis is high , it is quite likely that the image contains ionized signal . in this case",
    ", the signal is defined as 0 when the kurtosis is below a threshold , and max - the next highest value otherwise .    the last method to find signal ,",
    "is called high - delta , and it takes each pixel in all the images and calculates the max value seen , and the second highest value seen , and takes the difference between the two values .",
    "this reduces both thermal noise and noise from bad pixels that periodically lite up .",
    "this processing can be done on either the phone or the server computer .",
    "the cellphone has much more restrictive processing restrictions than desktop computers .",
    "every computation done will decrease the battery life .",
    "the processors on the cellphone are slower than desktop processors , and there is less memory available , as listed in table [ cell_phone_data ] .",
    "however , transmitting pictures to a central server for processing requires excessive bandwidth , so preliminary processing should be done on the phone .",
    "the software is written for android 4.0 and higher phones .",
    "the scene mode and the exposure compensation were chosen to maximize the exposure time and are listed in table [ dose_to_number_of_groups_phone_list ] .",
    "the exposure time was read from the exif data .",
    ".cell phone data [ cols= \" < , < , < , < \" , ]",
    "this project has demonstrated that a smartphone with a camera can be used as a low sensitivity dose rate meter . if the radiation is coming from a known direction , with sufficient data , limited spectrum information can be determined .",
    "there are better detectors than a cellphone camera will likely every be , but there are many more cellphones around than high - quality radiation detectors , which means there are times when the cellphone can be the best detector available .",
    "this manuscript has been authored by battelle energy alliance ,",
    "llc under contract no . de - ac07 - 05id14517 with the u.s .",
    "department of energy .",
    "the united states government retains and the publisher , by accepting the article for publication , acknowledges that the united states government retains a nonexclusive , paid - up , irrevocable , worldwide license to publish or reproduce the published form of this manuscript , or allow others to do so , for united states government purposes .    work supported by the u.s .",
    "department of energy , nuclear nonproliferation and security administration , and the u.s .",
    "department of defense , office of secretary of defense under doe idaho operations office contract de - ac07 - 05id14517 .",
    "many thanks to : project leaders steven h. mccown and gus caffrey , technical discussions from shane hansen , woo y. yoon , daren r. norman , hope forsmann , glenn knoll , edward h. seabury , thayne c. butikofer , paul k. halversen , john richardson , scott b. brown and ryan c. hruska . experimental support and technical discussion from christopher p. oertel , glenna l. seal , norman a. rhodehouse , laurel hill , byron christiansen , bryce j. woodbury , gary engelstad , jennifer a. turnage , john r. giles , and kent l. brinker .",
    "in addition to other contributions , dr .",
    "carl a. kutsche suggested that the difference in fraction of groups with lines with incoming angle could potentially be used to determine direction to the gamma source ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cmos camera found in many cellphones is sensitive to ionized electrons . </S>",
    "<S> gamma rays penetrate into the phone and produce ionized electrons that are then detected by the camera . thermal noise and other noise needs to be removed on the phone , which requires an algorithm that has relatively low memory and computational requirements . </S>",
    "<S> the continuous high - delta algorithm described fits those requirements . </S>",
    "<S> only a small fraction of the energy of even the electron is deposited in the camera sensor , so direct methods of measuring the energy can not be used . </S>",
    "<S> the fraction of groups of lit up pixels that are lines is correlated with the energy of the gamma rays . </S>",
    "<S> this correlation under certain conditions allows limited low resolution energy resolution to be performed . </S>"
  ]
}