{
  "article_text": [
    "type  ia supernovae ( sne  ia ) are remarkable objects as cosmological distance indicators , having provided the first direct evidence of the accelerating cosmic expansion .",
    "this cosmic acceleration was first reported by two independent supernova observation teams : the supernova cosmology project ( scp ) ( perlmutter  et  al . 1999 ) and the high - z sn search team ( riess  et  al .",
    "since then , many large sn surveys have been carried out to accurately measure the cosmological parameters ( e.g. , knop  et  al .",
    "2003 ; tonry et  al . 2003",
    "; astier  et  al . 2006 ; riess et al . 2007 ;",
    "wood - vasey  et  al .",
    "2007 ; kowalski  et  al . 2008",
    "; hicken et al . 2009",
    "; amanullah  et  al . 2010 ; sullivan  et  al . 2011",
    "; suzuki  et  al .",
    "2012 ) .",
    "although sne  ia are effective as standard candles , their progenitors are yet to be conclusively identified .",
    "it is widely believed that the progenitor of a sn  ia is a binary system containing a c+o white dwarf , and recently the compact nature of the exploding star has been confirmed ( nugent  et  al .",
    "2011 ; bloom  et  al .",
    "there are two widely discussed scenarios for the progenitor , the single degenerate ( sd ) scenario and the double degenerate ( dd ) scenario . in the sd scenario , a c+o white dwarf accretes gas from a companion star in a binary system .",
    "its mass increases up to the chandrasekhar limit where it explodes as an sn  ia ( e.g. , nomoto 1982 ; hachisu  et  al . 1996 ; nomoto  et  al .",
    "if sne  ia from the sd scenario exist , the companion star survives in the supernova remnant after the sn  ia explosion .",
    "various methods have been used to search for such companion stars , but to date no clear detection has been made ( e.g. , ruiz - lapuente  et  al .",
    "2004 ; ihara  et  al . 2007",
    "; gonzalez  et  al . 2009 ; kerzendorf  et  al .",
    "2009 ; schaefer & pagnotta 2012 ; li  et  al . 2011",
    "; nugent  et  al . 2011 ; bloom  et  al . 2012 ; brown  et  al .",
    "2012 ; chomiuk  et  al . 2012 ; margutti  et  al . 2012 ) .",
    "other constraints on the sd scenario had been obtained from radio observations , which showed no clear evidence of an interaction between the ejecta and the circumstellar material ( csm ) surrounding the sne .",
    "( e.g. panagia  et  al .",
    "2006 ; hancock  et  al . 2011 ; chomiuk  et  al .",
    "though these observations disfavor non - degenerate donors , some sn  ia spectra show narrow time varying and/or blue - shifted na i d absorption features possibly associated with a sd donor star ( e.g. patat  et  al .",
    "2007 ; simon  et  al . 2009 ; blondin  et  al . 2009",
    "; stritzinger  et  al . 2010 ; sternberg  et  al .",
    "2011 ; maguire  et  al .",
    "these features are also investigated in the context of dd scenario ( shen  et  al .",
    "2013 ; raskin & kasen 2013 ) .    in the dd scenario , a merger of two c+o white dwarfs with a combined mass exceeding",
    "the chandrasekhar mass leads to an sn  ia explosion ( e.g. , iben & tutukov 1984 ; webbink 1984 ) .",
    "searches have been carried out to detect dd binaries that could be sn  ia progenitors , but strong limits have not yet been reached due to small number statistics ( e.g. , koester  et  al . 2005 ; geier  et  al .",
    "2007 ) .",
    "sne  ia explode with a `` delay time '' between binary system formation and subsequent sn explosion .",
    "this delay time is one of the primary methods for understanding the progenitor scenario of sne  ia .",
    "recent comparisons of the sn  ia rate and the cosmic star formation history ( e.g. , madau  et  al .",
    "1998 ; hopkins & beacon 2006 ) have resulted in a wide range of derived delay times ( e.g. , cappellaro  et  al .",
    "1999 ; pain et  al . 2002",
    "; tonry  et  al . 2003 ; barris & tonry 2006 ; neill  et  al .",
    "2006 ; poznanski  et  al . 2007",
    "; botticella  et  al . 2008 ; dahlen  et  al .",
    "2008 ; dilday  et  al .",
    "2008 ; kuznetsova  et  al .",
    "2008 graur  et  al .",
    "2011 , maoz  et  al .",
    "2012 , barbary  et  al .",
    "2012 , perrett  et  al .",
    "the delay time can be predicted theoretically from the sd scenario or the dd scenario ( see wang & han 2012 , for a review ) .",
    "for example , in the sd scenario , the delay time is closely related to the lifetime of the companion star ( e.g. hachisu  et  al .",
    "the delay time obtained from rate studies can allow us to distinguish between the two progenitor scenarios .",
    "many studies have derived the sn  ia delay time distribution ( dtd ) from observations .",
    "totani  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ) , for example , measured the delay time distribution based on the stellar age estimate of each galaxy in a sample of passively evolving sxds galaxies , finding that the time distribution could be described by a featureless power law going as @xmath10 over @xmath11 = 0.1@xmath1210 gyr .",
    "other studies using different methods also show consistency with a @xmath13 trend ( see maoz & mannucci 2012 , for a review ) .    in this context , high - redshift sn  ia rates ( @xmath14 ) play an important role in investigating the dtd , especially for the short delay time regime .",
    "if sne  ia with short delay times dominate sn  ia populations , the cosmic sn  ia rate evolution should closely trace that of the cosmic star formation , and thus high - redshift sn  ia rates provide information about the short delay time population .",
    "high - redshift sn  ia rates have been measured in several surveys . recently ,",
    "perrett  et  al .",
    "( 2012 ) has measured the sn  ia rate over the redshift range @xmath15 using 286 spectroscopically confirmed and @xmath16 400 photometrically identified sne  ia from the supernova legacy survey ( snls ) .",
    "dahlen  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ; hereafter da08 ) obtained the first sn  ia rate measurement beyond @xmath17 of 1 , based on the great observatories origins deep survey ( goods ) survey .",
    "they used 56 high - redshift sne  ia , the majority of which were spectroscopically confirmed .",
    "interestingly , they find that the sn  ia rate decreases beyond @xmath18 , contradicting the expectation from the delay time distribution measurements of totani  et  al . 2008 .",
    "however , the rate in the highest redshift bin ( @xmath19 ) has a large uncertainty due to small number statistics .",
    "the detection efficiency at @xmath20 rapidly decreases with redshift as the observed bands shift farther into the rest - frame uv .",
    "other high - z rate measurements have been reported in the literature .",
    "graur  et  al .",
    "2011 derived the sn  ia rate up to @xmath21 using 150 sne from a sn survey in the subaru deep field ( sdf ) , and found that the sn  ia rate levels off at @xmath22 .",
    "their sn classification method is based on a single epoch in the @xmath23and @xmath24 bands , provided in poznanski  et  al .",
    "barbary  et  al .",
    "2012 ( hereafter b12 ) derived the sn  ia rate up to @xmath18 using @xmath25 sne  ia from the _ hubble space telescope _ cluster supernova survey , finding a rate that is broadly consistent with previous measurements but with large uncertainties .",
    "the behavior of sn  ia rates at high redshifts is not clear yet due to the large statistical uncertainties associated with the few detections to date in this redshift range .",
    "this is a key issue in sn  ia rate studies .    in this paper ,",
    "we measure the sn  ia rate to high redshift using the subaru / xmm - newton deep survey ( sxds ) data set .",
    "the survey area is large ( @xmath261  deg@xmath0 ) enough to obtain many sne  ia . with the repeat imaging observations we are able to construct high - quality sn light curves .",
    "we obtain 39 sne  ia in the range @xmath27 using a classification method that relies primarily on light - curve fitting and photometric redshifts .",
    "spectroscopic identifications , source colors , host galaxy redshifts , and x - ray data are employed when available to directly remove contamination or to improve statistical contamination corrections .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in  [ observations ] , we describe the observations .",
    "we briefly summarize the sxds data set , and describe in detail the observations used for sn detection . in ",
    "[ sn ] , we describe the sn selection method . in  [ ratecalc ] , we describe the control time calculation . in  [ results ] , we discuss the results and estimate systematic errors .",
    "we provide figure  [ flow ] as a visual guide to the procedure used in this paper . in",
    " [ discussion ] , we compare our results with previous works . finally , we summarize our work in  [ conclusions ] . throughout the paper",
    "we adopt the cosmological parameters @xmath28 km s@xmath29 mpc@xmath29 , @xmath30 , @xmath31 .",
    "all magnitudes are given in the ab system .",
    "+    ( 80mm,60mm)figure1.eps",
    "the subaru / xmm - newton deep survey ( sxds ) is a multi - wavelength survey from x - ray to radio ( sekiguchi  et  al .",
    "2004 ) the survey targets a 1.22 deg@xmath0 field centered on ( @xmath32,@xmath33 ) , hereafter referred to as the subaru / xmm - newton deep field ( sxdf ) .",
    "the optical imaging component of the survey was carried out using suprime - cam ( miyazaki  et  al .",
    "2002 ) on the 8.2m subaru telescope , starting in september 2002 .",
    "with suprime - cam s very wide field of view ( @xmath34 ) , the field is covered in five pointings ( sxdf - c ,",
    "sxdf - n , sxdf - s , sxdf - e and sxdf - w ; see furusawa  et  al .",
    "2008 ) . in order to detect and follow the light curves of optically faint variable objects ,",
    "the suprime - cam observations were split into exposures of 1800@xmath127200 seconds separated by periods of days to weeks . between september 2002 and december 2002 , the fields",
    "were observed 5@xmath127 times in the @xmath1-band and 2@xmath124 times in the @xmath35- and @xmath24-bands .",
    "after the 2002 observations finished , we took reference images in the @xmath1-band in 2003 and 2005 , in the @xmath24-band in 2005 , and in the @xmath35-band in 2008 .",
    "the observations are described in detail in morokuma  et  al .",
    "( 2008a , hereafter m08 ) . here ,",
    "the number of the epochs of the observations , each exposure time , and each detection limit are summarized in table  1 . for our sn study",
    "we exclude regions around bright objects to ensure reliable detection of object variability .",
    "this reduces the total effective area to 0.918  deg@xmath0 .",
    "x - ray imaging observations in the sxdf were carried out with the european photon imaging camera ( epic ) on the xmm - newton .",
    "the x - ray imaging covers most of the sxdf fields .",
    "the x - ray observation details are described in ueda  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ) and akiyama  et  al .",
    "( in preparation ) .",
    "the limiting fluxes are to @xmath36 erg@xmath29 @xmath37 s@xmath29 in the soft band ( 0.5 - 2.0 kev ) and @xmath38 erg@xmath29 @xmath37 s@xmath29 in the hard band ( 2.0 - 10.0 kev ) .",
    "follow - up spectroscopic observations to identify transients and obtain redshifts were taken during the survey in 2002 .",
    "the follow - up was done with several ground - based 8 - 10 m telescopes and the acs grism on hst and is described in lidman  et  al .",
    "( 2005 ) , morokuma  et  al .",
    "( 2010 ) and suzuki  et  al .",
    "given the large number of transients , priority was given to transients that were likely to be sne  ia at z @xmath39 1 .",
    "a number of factors went into computing the priority : the significance of the detection , the percentage increase in the brightness , the distance from the centre of the apparent host , the brightness of the candidate and the quality of the subtraction ( the follow - up procedure is summarized in lidman  et  al .",
    "in total , 8 transients , half of which are beyond @xmath40 , were classified as sn  ia ( see table  3 for the references ) . in later years , additional spectroscopic observations were taken with focas on subaru to obtain redshifts of host galaxies after the transients had faded from view .",
    "in order to obtain a sample of sne  ia we have selected variable objects from our multi - epoch data and then applied a series of procedures to further purify the sample .",
    "the first such procedure consists of lightcurve fitting to reject objects whose lightcurves are inconsistent with an sn  ia .",
    "this procedures can be applied to all candidates .",
    "additional procedures make use of color , spectroscopic and additional information available for subsamples of the full sample to further cull the sample .",
    "these procedures are now described in detail .",
    "+      the details of the initial selection of variable objects in the sxdf are described in detail by m08 . in brief , we use an imaging subtraction method introduced by alard & lupton ( 1998 ) and developed by alard ( 2000 ) , which enables us to match one image against another image with a different psf .",
    "we can then detect and measure variable objects in the subtracted images .",
    "this method is applied for all possible pairs of stacked images at different epochs . in the subtracted images , we select objects having a flux greater than @xmath41 in an aperture of 2  arcsecond in diameter , where @xmath42 is the background fluctuation within an aperture of this size .",
    "a total of 1040 variable objects were detected .",
    "we are selecting supernovae that occurred in 2002 ; since supernovae light curves last only a few months , there should be no variability detected in 2003 or 2005 .",
    "of 1040 variable objects , only 371 did not show variability ( above @xmath43 ) in 2003 and 2005 .",
    "these 371 objects are classified as transients . for computing light curves ,",
    "we then assume that there is no flux from the transient in images taken from 2003 onwards .",
    "finally , we require that objects show at least a @xmath41 increase in 2 or more epochs in the @xmath1-band .",
    "if a variable object is only detected in one epoch , the object might be a false detection due to galaxy missubtraction , or another kind of transient phenomenon .",
    "note that this requirement is accounted for in the rate calculation during the calculation of the control time (  [ ct ] ) .",
    "we applied one further consideration at this stage ; at redshift @xmath44 , the central wavelength of the suprimecam i band corresponds a rest - frame wavelength of @xmath26@xmath45 .",
    "the properties of supernovae , of all types , are not well characterized over this wavelength region , limiting the effectiveness of non - spectroscopic classification methods .",
    "for this reason we remove 5 objects whose spectroscopic redshift are @xmath20 .",
    "however , we also note that it is still possible to detect a sn  ia with @xmath46 ( see  [ type2 ] for a possible candidate ) . after this stage ,",
    "141 variable objects remain as sn candidates .",
    "+      although we would need spectra of both host galaxies and supernovae in order to identify host galaxies with absolute certainty , here we simply identify the galaxy closest on the sky to each sn candidate as its host ( m08 ) .",
    "the stacked images of sxdf are much deeper than the individual images , which enables us to detect a reliable host galaxy for every sn candidate .",
    "of the 141 host galaxies , only 22 have a spectroscopic redshift .",
    "redshifts for the sn host galaxies without spectroscopic redshifts are derived from photometric redshifts of the host galaxies using the multi - color photometric dataset of sxds .",
    "the stacked images from the suprime - cam observations have depths of @xmath47 , @xmath48 , @xmath49 , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 ( @xmath52 , 2  arcsecond diameter aperture ; furusawa  et  al .",
    "2008 ) . as part of the sxds ,",
    "the field was observed by the ukidss / uds survey ( warren  et  al .",
    "2007 ) in the j , h , and k bands , with respective limiting magnitudes of 24.9 , 24.2 , 24.6 ( @xmath53 , 2  arcsecond diameter aperture ) . additionally , the swire survey ( lonsdale  et  al . 2004 ) obtained data in 3.6 @xmath54 m and 4.5 @xmath54 m bands , with respective limiting magnitudes of 23.1 and 22.4 ( @xmath52 , 3.8  arcsecond diameter aperture ) .",
    "photometric redshifts are calculated using this 10 band dataset .",
    "photometric redshift calculations are performed using the publicly available code _ lephare _ ( arnouts  et  al .",
    "1999 ; ilbert  et  al .",
    "we fit our @xmath55 , @xmath56 , @xmath35 , @xmath1 @xmath24 , @xmath57 , @xmath58 , @xmath59 , @xmath60 , @xmath61 host magnitudes with spectral energy distributions ( seds ) from pegase2 ( fioc & rocca - volmerange 1997 , 1999 ) stellar population synthesis models .",
    "we use the initial mass function of scalo ( 1986 ) and 15 models for star formation ( sf ) history .",
    "these include a constant star formation rate ( sfr ) scenario , starburst scenario , and star formation history having an exponentially decaying sfr with exponential time scales of @xmath62 , 0.3 , 0.5 , 0.7 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 15 , and 20 gyrs .",
    "to test the reliability of the photometric redshifts ( @xmath63 ) , we use 786 sxds galaxies that have both a photometric redshift and a spectroscopic one .",
    "the comparison is shown in figure  [ photz ] .",
    "the reliability depends on the redshift range and the undertainty of the host - galaxy photometry .",
    "most galaxies ( @xmath64 ) are in the range @xmath65 .",
    "since our work concentrates on the determination of sn  ia redshifts , we use the probability distribution function ( pdf ) of the host galaxy redshift when classifying its type and redshift .",
    "( 80mm,80mm)figure2.eps    it is possible that some host associations are erroneous , which could result in the rejection of a bona fide sn  ia due to an errror in the lightcurve timescale . an erroneous association between objects with similar redshifts",
    " such as those in the same group or cluster  is not of concern here . to check for possible host galaxy misidentification , for the objects which we later classify as sn",
    "ia we show in figure  [ offset ] the distribution of separations between the sn and the center of its designated host galaxy . according to yasuda & fukugita ( 2010 ) ,",
    "the radial distribution of sne ia is nearly consistent with the luminosity profiles of their host galaxies . in the case of our sxds candidates ,",
    "a kolmogorov - smirnov test finds the distribution of the sn  ia candidates to be consistent with the luminosity profiles of galaxies ( yasuda & fukugita 2010 ) .",
    "therefore , we assume that erroneous host associations are unimportant for the present analysis .",
    "+      the light curves of sne  ii are generally significantly broader than those of sne  ia or sne  ib / c .",
    "therefore , as a first step we distinguish between sne  i ( including ia , ib and ic ) and sne  ii using the light - curve shape . to do this ,",
    "we compare the light curve of each candidate to template light curves of the various sn subtypes .",
    "as we will see , the light curves of most candidates are adequately sampled to distinguish unambiguously between sne  i and sne  ii .",
    "where available , we use the spectroscopic redshift of the sn or host galaxy in the light - curve fitting .",
    "where there is only a photometric redshift available , we use the pdf of the host galaxy calculated by _",
    "lephare _ as a redshift prior .",
    "we construct sn  ia and sn  ii template light curves in the observed @xmath1-band using @xmath59-corrections derived from the spectral time - series templates of hsiao  et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) and nugent  et  al .",
    "the shape of various sn  ia light curves can be well - represented by a single template and a stretch factor ( perlmutter  et  al .",
    "1997 ) . for the sn  ia light curves we perform @xmath59-corrections with the spectral template of hsiao  et  al .",
    "this template accurately describes the uv features of sne  ia , which is particularly important for high - redshift sne  ia .",
    "sn  ia light - curve shape diversity can be neglected as it has been shown to be small compared to the difference between sne  ia and sne  ii light - curve shapes ( takanashi  et  al .",
    "in contrast to sne  ia , it is impossible to describe sne  ii with only one template .",
    "type  ii sne can be divided into several subtypes ( e.g. , iip , iil and iin ) each of which exhibits a broadly different light - curve shape . even within subtypes",
    "there is significant light - curve shape diversity .",
    "therefore , we use a set of 12 well - observed sn  ii light curves as templates . our observed sne  ii consist of 5 of the best - observed published sne  ii and 7 sne  ii from the sdss - ii sn survey ( sako  et  al . 2008 ) . in total , the sdss - ii sn survey observed more than 50 sne  ii over three years .",
    "the 7 used here are selected based on their discovery at an early phase and many repeat observations ( @xmath66 ) with long time coverage ( @xmath2660 days ) in the sdss @xmath67- , @xmath68- , and @xmath69-bands",
    ". details for the 12 sne  ii used as templates are listed in table  [ typeii ] . for each candidate ,",
    "an @xmath1-band template light curve is made by @xmath59-correcting the observed multi - band photometry to the redshift of the candidate , using the templates of nugent  et  al .",
    "generally , the observed sn  ii light curves lack data points during their rising phase due to the rapid increase to maximum after explosion .",
    "thus , we also use the nugent  et  al .",
    "( 2002 ) templates to interpolate the rising phase of the light curve .",
    "example template light curves for type  ia and ii sne are shown in figure  [ lcs ] .",
    "( 80mm,60mm)figure3.eps    ( 160mm,120mm)figure4.eps    using the observed @xmath1-band light curve of each sxds sn candidate , we perform the following fitting method to refine candidates .",
    "first , we use the probability of being a certain type of sn as a function of redshift using the following formula :    @xmath70    here , @xmath71 is the probability function derived by _ lephare _ , and @xmath72 is the @xmath73 calculated by light curve ( lc ) fitting .",
    "@xmath74 where @xmath75 is the observed @xmath1-band flux , @xmath76 is the observational error , @xmath77 is the @xmath1-band flux of the template light curve at redshift @xmath17 , and @xmath78 is the number of observing epochs during 2002 : 7 in sxdf - c and sxdf - w , 6 in sxdf - e , and 5 in sxdf - n and sxdf - s .",
    "note that @xmath77 represents a set of templates of sne of different types . in the light - curve fit ,",
    "the free parameters on the template light curve are the peak magnitude , the date at peak brightness , the stretch factor , and the redshift .",
    "then we calculate the value of @xmath72 for each sn template .",
    "the date at peak brightness is allowed to vary between day @xmath79 and 70 where day 0 corresponds to the beginning date of the sxds variable object survey ( september 30 , 2002 ) .",
    "the stretch factor is only used in fitting the type  ia template .",
    "it is constrained to the range @xmath80 and moves independently of peak magnitude . for sne  ia templates , the @xmath55-band absolute magnitude is allowed to vary in the range @xmath81 .",
    "this magnitude range is based on the range of the real sn  ia distribution observed in the sdss - ii sn survey ( dilday  et  al .",
    "2008 ) . for sne  ii templates ,",
    "the @xmath56-band absolute magnitude is allowed to vary in the range @xmath82 .",
    "as for sne  ia , this range is based on the distribution of sne  ii in the sdss - ii sn survey ( see figure  [ sdssii ] ) . in all cases ,",
    "the absolute magnitude is converted to an observed @xmath1-band magnitude using the luminosity distance and a @xmath59-correction with the appropriate spectral template ( hsiao  et  al .",
    "2007 and nugent  et  al .",
    "2002 ) . for sne",
    "having spectroscopic redshifts , the redshift is fixed , and @xmath83 is calculated by @xmath59-correcting the light - curve template to that redshift .",
    "we determine the sn type by inspecting the value of @xmath84 .",
    "if the @xmath84 obtained by fitting the sn  ia template is greater than that obtained by fitting any of the sn  ii templates , the candidate is classified as a sn  i. in order to remove candidates that are neither sne  i nor ii ( i.e. , agn or other variable objects ) , we also require that the @xmath85 for the best fit template be lower than 5 . based on the simulation of completeness (  [ completeness ] ) , 98.4% of real sne  ia will satisfy this requirement .    using this method",
    ", we classify 44 of the 141 candidates as sne  i. though our control time shows a sharp drop off by @xmath86 , one object ( 1 - 081 ) has been classified as sn  ia at @xmath87 with @xmath88 .",
    "it is possible to detect a sn  ia with @xmath20 if our observations cover at least two epochs around the maximum ( see figure  [ time ] ) .",
    "however , we do not include this object in the rate calculation and use only the 43 sne  i having @xmath89 .",
    "examples of template light - curve fits are shown in figure  [ lcsamples ] .",
    "although we expect this method to distinguish between sne  i and ii with good reliability ( see following section ) , due to statistical fluctuations the classification will not be perfect . therefore , we estimate and correct for completeness and sn  ii contamination in  [ completeness ] . +      another potential source of contamination are agn that pass our variability cuts .",
    "x - ray detection is useful in confirming whether or not variable objects are agn . out of 43 sn  ia candidates ,",
    "42 objects were observed with xmm - newton at some observation phase of sxds , and only two object are detected in x - ray .",
    "this x - ray detection ratio is almost the same as the ratio of agn to general galaxies ( m08 ) .",
    "thus , the one object detected in x - ray might be supernova that occurred in a galaxy hosting an agn .",
    "we have a spectrum of one of the transients associated with an x - ray source , object 3 - 202 ( suf02 - 061 ) .",
    "the spectrum exhibits an [ ne  iii ] @xmath90 emission line , suggesting the possibility of an agn .",
    "[ o  ii]@xmath91 and h@xmath92 are also detected . from these lines ,",
    "we derive [ ne  iii]/h@xmath93 and [ o  ii]/h@xmath94 , which are consistent with either an agn or starburst origin ( rola  et  al .",
    "1997 , prez - montero 2007 ) .",
    "tests performed on the spectrum indicate that , had object 3 - 202 been a sn  ia , we would have detected the sn  ia features .",
    "object 3 - 202 is also very close to the core of its host galaxy , as expected for an agn .",
    "the offset is 0.19 pixels ( 004 ) , which is larger than our expected measurement uncertainty .",
    "thus , while we are unable to rule out the possibility of a sn  ib / c associated with a starburst , with this evidence we can conclusively reject the possibility that this object is a type  ia sn .",
    "we also reject object 1 - 143 , due to the likelihood that it is an agn . unlike 3 - 202",
    ", we do not have a spectrum of object 1 - 143 ; however , it is detected in the x - rays and is closer to the core of its host galaxy than any other candidate .",
    "x - ray observations are usually powerful tools to detect agn , however not all agn have x - ray detections and faint agn populations are not traced by x - ray observations ( m08 ) .",
    "since objects 3 - 202 and 1 - 143 passed the lightcurve test but are likely agn , we may ask whether there are other such cases of agn undetected by x - rays in our sample . only one other object ,",
    "4 - 203 , is as close to the core of its host as objects 3 - 202 and 1 - 143 are to theirs .",
    "if this was an agn as well , our sample would have a deficit in the number of sne  ia near core , so we deem it likely that this object is not an agn .",
    "+      ( 80mm,160mm)figure5.eps    at ths point we have 41 sn  ia candidates based on their light - curve shapes .",
    "it is impossible to further classify candidates into sne  ia and ib / c without additional data because the shapes of sn  ia and ib / c light curves are quite similar .",
    "although sne  ib / c are rarer events than sne  ia , we expect that the classified sne  i will include a few sne  ib / c .    in our observation , some transients were observed in @xmath95 and @xmath96bands .",
    "we make use of this photometry to discriminate sne  ib / c from sne  ia based on color information ( @xmath97 vs @xmath98 ) ; 14 of the remaining sne  i candidates have this color information .",
    "the agn 3 - 202 also has a color measurement , as do 2 of the 8 spectroscopically - confirmed sne  ia .",
    "we construct color - color diagrams of the candidates at each redshift and epoch where the colors are available ( figure  [ color ] ) .",
    "the color models of sne  ia and ib / c are obtained from the templates of hsiao et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) and nugent et  al .",
    "( 2002 ) , respectively .",
    "we assume an average reddening from sn host galaxies and show the reddening as arrows on figure  [ color ] .",
    "sn  ia candidates are grouped by similar redshift and epoch so that we can compare the expected sn  ia / ibc colors and those of candidates .    using figure  [ color ]",
    ", we estimate that 2 out of the 14 remaining candidates have a color incompatible with sne  ia .",
    "these objects , 2 - 038 and 4 - 100 , are therefore rejected from the sample .",
    "possible contamination of sn  ib / c on the rest of the sample is discussed in ",
    "[ snibccontamination ] as a systematic uncertainties .",
    "+      we can use the small subset of the candidates that are spectroscopically confirmed sne  ia as a basic consistency check .",
    "all 8 spectroscopically confirmed sne  ia and probable sne  ia ( ia * ) found during the sxds are classified as sne  i by the light - curve fitting .",
    "although the 39 sn  ia candidates will have some contamination from sne  ii ( estimated in  [ completeness ] ) and sne  ib / c (  [ snibccontamination ] ) , we expect most of them to be sne  ia",
    ". we can check that most of the 39 sn  i candidates have properties broadly consistent with sne  ia .",
    "the best fit light - curve parameters for each of the 39 candidates are shown in table  3 .",
    "we note that the uncertainty in these parameters is often large , particularly for candidates lacking a spectroscopic redshift .",
    "this is not a problem however , as we are concerned with the broad light - curve characteristics of the sample as a whole rather than an precise determination of the light - curve parameters of any single sn .",
    "we discuss the distribution of absolute magnitude , light - curve width , and host galaxy separation for the candidates . +",
    "_ absolute magnitude_. the distribution of the candidates @xmath99band absolute magnitudes ( uncorrected for host galaxy extinction ) is shown in figure  [ iasxds ] ( top ) .",
    "the distribution peaks around @xmath100 , the expected average magnitude of sne  ia . the expected distribution of sn  ia magnitudes from this survey ( based on the simulations described in  [ ratecalc ] ) is shown as a dotted line .",
    "there appears to be an overabundance of faint candidates , possibly due to contamination from sne ii .",
    "the lower panel of figure  [ iasxds ] shows where the excess lies in redshift  the excess faint candidates are found mainly at lower redshift ( @xmath101 ) .",
    "note that the simulated expected distribution ( green contours ) takes into account the shift in the distribution of sne toward higher luminosity and larger stretch with redshift ( e.g. , howell et al . 2007 ) . as a result , the top of the green contours slopes up with redshift .    _",
    "light curve width_. since our light curve fitting is based on at most seven epochs , constraining the light curve width ( stretch parameter ) is challenging compared to other parameters , e.g. , @xmath102 , and the day of maximum .",
    "their errors are very large ( @xmath103 ) .",
    "furthermore , our stretch factors in table  3 are not b - band stretch factors but observed @xmath104band stretch factors , which correspond to other rest - frame bands depending on redshift.this is not a problem here , however , since we are employing light curve fitting only to determine type and redshift .",
    "the observer - frame @xmath1-band stretch distribution contains a broad peak around @xmath105 , which is the consistent with observations of nearby sne  ia .",
    "at the same time , we found that some faint objects have large stretches ( @xmath106 ) , though we expect large stretches for luminous objects .",
    "some of these objects might be misclassified sne  ii .",
    "we estimate the rate of misclassified sne  ii in  [ misclassificationratio ] .",
    "_ host galaxy separation_. we show the distribution of the distance from each candidate to the center of its designed host galaxy ( figure  [ offset ] ) . according to yasuda & fukugita ( 2010 ) ,",
    "the radial distribution of sne  ia is nearly consistent with the luminosity profiles of their host galaxies . in the case of our sxds candidates ,",
    "a kolmogorov - smirnov test finds the distribution of the sn  i candidates to be consistent with the luminosity profiles of galaxies .",
    "+      to count the estimated number of observed sne  ia ( @xmath107 ) , the easiest way might be to use the best - fit redshift derived from the fitting .",
    "however , some sn  ia candidates have large host photo-@xmath17 uncertainties ( see bottom right figure of fig . [ lcsamples ] for an example ) .",
    "instead , we allocate the number of sn  ia according to their @xmath108 distributions . for example , in the case of 2 - 138 illustrated in fig .",
    "[ lcsamples ] , we allocate a fractional contribution of 0.55 to the @xmath109 bin and 0.45 to the @xmath110 bin . these allocations are summarized in table  3 , where it can be seen that the probability is concentrated in a single bin for each sn .",
    "( 80mm,120mm)figure7.eps    ( 80mm,60mm)figure8.eps",
    "given the supernova rate per unit comoving volume @xmath111 , the average number of sne we expect to observe in the redshift bin @xmath112 $ ] is given by @xmath113 where @xmath114 is the comoving volume in a redshift slice of width @xmath115 , @xmath116 is the solid angle observed in the survey ( in units of steradians ) , and @xmath117 is the observer frame `` control time '' .",
    "the control time can be thought of as an `` effective visibility time '' ; it is the total time ( in the observer frame ) for which the survey is sensitive to a sn  ia at redshift @xmath17 . in any survey of finite length ,",
    "the observed number of sne in any given bin will differ from the average expected number @xmath118 due to poisson statistics . given a functional form of the rate @xmath111",
    ", we can estimate its parameters by comparing the observed number of sne to @xmath118 in each redshift bin .",
    "alternatively , we can make the approximation that the rate is constant within each bin . under this approximation",
    ", @xmath111 can be moved outside the integral in equation  ( [ rateeq ] ) . using @xmath119 as an unbiased estimator of @xmath118",
    ", we get an estimate of the rate in the bin @xmath120 ,    @xmath121    since ct(z ) differs by changing position ( field ) and survey epochs , ct(z ) is calculated for all fields and corresponding survey parameters , then normalized for the rate calculations . in this paper , we use two methods . assuming the rate follows a simple power law , @xmath122 ( pain  et  al .",
    "2002 ) , we estimate its parameters using equation  ( [ rateeq ] ) .",
    "we also use equation  ( [ rateeq2 ] ) to estimate the rate in three broad bins , @xmath123 , @xmath109 , @xmath110 .",
    "because we have a spectroscopic classification for only a small minority of our sn candidates , we use a photometric typing method as our primary means of classifying into sne  i and ii , thereby arriving at an estimated number of sne  ia observed , @xmath107 .",
    "this method can give a biased estimate of the true number of sne  ia , @xmath119 , due to the limited number and precision of observations .",
    "specifically , some type  ii sne may be misclassified as sne  ia , while some type  ia sne may be misclassified as sne  ii . the estimated number of sne  ia , @xmath107 , can be expressed as follows : @xmath124where @xmath125 is the probability of correctly classifying a sn  ia ( completeness ) and @xmath126 is the probability of classifying a sn  ii as a sn  ia ( contamination ) .",
    "note that these two factors address only misclassification in the light - curve fitting , not uncertainties in the sn  ia or ii light - curve templates .",
    "those uncertainties are addressed in our estimate of the systematic error (  [ results ] ) . @xmath127 and @xmath128 are possible residual contamination from sn  ib / c and agn , as described in  [ agn ] and  [ discriminatingibc ] . the method we use to derive the rates",
    "is illustrated in figure  [ flow ] . in ",
    "[ ct ] we calculate @xmath117 using simulated sn  ia light curves . in section",
    " [ completeness ] we calculate @xmath129 and @xmath130 using simulated sn  ia and ii light curves .",
    "the number of sne  ii , @xmath131 , is calculated assuming the nearby sn  ii rate and cosmic star formation history . +      the control time is the time interval during which we can detect the sn explosion .",
    "here we define the time in the observer - frame .",
    "we compute the control time as a function of redshift .",
    "+      in order to calculate the control time , we carry out a monte carlo simulation to generate artificial `` observed '' sn  ia and sn  ii light curves based on the observation dates and depths of our sxds variable object survey . to produce a distribution of artificial sne  ia modeled on the true sn  ia distribution",
    ", we use a magnitude distribution based on sne  ia from the sdss - ii sn survey ( frieman  et  al .",
    "2008 ) . as the sdss - ii sample is essentially complete at @xmath132 ( dilday  et  al .",
    "2008 ) , we adopt the exact absolute magnitudes and stretch factors of 56 @xmath133 sdss - ii sne for our artificial sne  ia .",
    "the 56 sne include all spectroscopically - confirmed @xmath133 sne  ia obtained in the first two years ( 2005 and 2006 ) of the survey .",
    "the @xmath55-band absolute magnitude distribution ( uncorrected for dust extinction ) and @xmath55-band stretch factor distribution of these sne  ia is shown in figure  [ iasdss ] .",
    "the stretch distribution of sne  ia at high - redshift might be different from the local distribution ; according to howell  et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) the average light curve width and average intrinsic luminosity of sne  ia increase toward high - redshift for non - subluminous sne  ia .",
    "therefore we include the effect of the stretch evolution toward high - redshift in our simulation . at each redshift",
    ", we make an artificial light curve in the observed @xmath1-band based on each of the 56 sne .",
    "to do this , we use the absolute magnitude of the sn and a @xmath59-correction based on the @xmath134 sdss - ii light curve and the hsiao  et  al .",
    "( 2007 ) template .",
    "though we use real sne  ia , including whatever dust extinction they suffer , for our control time simulation in order to represent the actual @xmath135 distribution , an alternative approach is to employ a simple parameterized family of lightcurves , e.g. , using stretch and color , @xmath136 .",
    "b12 simulated the magnitude distribution of sne  ia using the model : @xmath137 where @xmath138 is the fiducial magnitude , @xmath139 , @xmath140 ( kowalski  et  al .",
    "2008 ) , and @xmath141 is an additional `` intrinsic dispersion '' characterized with @xmath142 mag and @xmath143 gaussian distribution .",
    "the top panel of figure  [ iasdss ] shows the comparison between simulated magnitude distributions for dust models from b12 and that of our sample . our sample",
    "is well represented by the distribution with the extinction model presented in kessler  et  al .",
    "2009 ( hereafter k09 ) , which is expressed as @xmath144 from host - galaxy sn extinction in the sdss - ii sn survey . among the models examined in b12 ,",
    "the model of hatano  et  al .",
    "( 1998 ) , which was used for the main result in dahlen  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ) , was the most dust - affected model .",
    "this model is also indicated in the top panel of figure  [ iasdss ] , showing tail to the fainter side . the uncertainty caused by the choice of extinction models",
    "is discussed in  [ results ] .",
    "( 80mm,120mm)figure9.eps    next , we make artificial sn  ii light curves from the type  ii templates of  [ type2 ] . as for sne  ia",
    ", the absolute magnitude distribution for these light curves is based on real sdss - ii sne . however , it is more difficult to achieve a complete sample for sne  ii because they are intrinsically fainter than sne  ia on average .",
    "if we use the same redshift cut off as for sne  ia ( @xmath145 ) , the number of faint sne  ii will be underestimated ( see figure  [ sdssii ] ) . to resolve this problem ,",
    "we have constructed a new luminosity function that accounts for incompleteness using the formula below : @xmath146 where @xmath147 is the number of sdss sne  ii with luminosity @xmath148 and @xmath149 is the volume to which a sn  ii can be seen above the sdss flux limit given the luminosity , @xmath150 .",
    "thus , we can simulate lightcurves using essentially all of the real sne  ii from sdss - ii .",
    "we will estimate the systematic error due to the correction factors in  [ results ] by varying the sdss flux limit .",
    "in addition to a distribution in absolute magnitude , we use two different subtypes ( type  iip and iil ) in our generated artificial sn  ii light curves .",
    "we use a ratio of type  ii - p to type  ii - l of 2:1 ( richardson  et  al . 2002 ) .",
    "also as part of our systematic error estimate in  [ results ] , we vary this ratio .",
    "we generate a total of about 100,000 sn  ia and sn  ii light curves .",
    "we note that statistical error and systematic error of 2% in the flux is included in the light curve simulation .",
    "+    ( 80mm,60mm)figure10.eps      we calculate how many days the artificial sne  ia can be observed .",
    "we add observation errors to the artificial sn  ia light curves .",
    "the observing errors are calculated from the limiting magnitudes of the sxds observations , which includes the effect of decreasing signal - to - noise ratio due to the subtraction of two images .",
    "we also include the detection efficiency in the control time calculation .",
    "the detection efficiency of the sxds variable object survey was obtained by m08 .",
    "m08 estimated the detection efficiency as a function of magnitude in each subtraction image .",
    "they added artificial stars to images and detected them in the same manner as for the real images .",
    "the results are shown in figure  8 of m08 .    the observable time duration ( control time ) of artificial sne  ia is calculated for each redshift bin of width @xmath151 .",
    "the control time of sne  ii is calculated in the same way as the sn  ia control time , but is only used for the estimation of contamination .",
    "since the observations consist of 5 fields of suprime - cam with different survey parameters , we calculate the control times for each field , and then weight them according to field areas ( see equation 3 in b12 ) .",
    "in addition , we use the data from the center field when it overlaps with other fields .",
    "the result of the weighted control time is shown in figure  [ time ] .",
    "+    ( 80mm,60mm)figure11.eps        in order to determine the completeness of our light curve classification technique , we fit light - curve templates to our sample of artificial sne  ia . because the total number of observing epochs is different for the different fields of the sxdf",
    ", we calculate the completeness separately for each field . the completeness for each field ( represented as 7 epoch , 6 epoch , and 5 epoch mode ) is shown in the different panels of figure  [ comp ] .    as a general trend",
    ", the completeness improves as more epochs are observed ( the second column of table 1 ) because the maximum is easily detectable .",
    "the result also shows that sne  ia are safely classified with high completeness (  80% in average ) . though this fraction is higher than the most efficient classification method in kessler  et  al .",
    "2010 ( @xmath152% of sako  et  al .",
    "2011 ) , our fitting code is only used for eliminating sne  iil and sne  iip from sne  ia , whereas kessler  et  al .",
    "2010 attempted to eliminate sne  ib / c in this way .",
    "as mentioned in  [ type2 ] , sne  ii are more easily distinguished from sne  ia based on light curves .",
    "also our calculations do not include the rare luminous sne",
    "ib / c such as sn2005ap ( quimby  et  al .",
    "2007 ) ; these will be handled as a systematic uncertainty in  [ results ] .",
    "figure  [ comp ] also shows that when there are fewer epochs the classification becomes less secure because the epoch of maximum brightness may be missed .",
    "+    ( 80mm,60mm)figure12.eps      we also estimate how often sne  ii are misclassified as sne  ia ( the contamination @xmath126 ) . using the same method as for sne  ia , we made artificial sne  ii and fit those sne with light curve templates to estimate the misclassification ratio ( the ratio of sn  ii classified sn  ia ) .",
    "the results are shown in figure  [ mix ] .",
    "the misclassification becomes large toward high redshift , but it is not a serious problem because the detection efficiency of sne  ii is much less than that of sne  ia at high redshift ( see figure  [ time ] ) .",
    "( 80mm,60mm)figure13.eps    now , in order to find the true number ( @xmath119 in equation 5 ) of sne  ia and ii at each redshift , we need to estimate the contamination of our sne  ia sample by sne  ii .",
    "there are many studies that derive core collapse supernova rates , and these results are consistent each other ( dahlen  et  al .",
    "2012 ; melinder  et  al .",
    "2012 ; graur  et  al .",
    "2011 ; bazin  et  al . 2009",
    "; botticella  et  al . 2008 ; mattila  et  al . 2012 ; li  et  al . 2011 ; smart  et  al . 2009 ; cappellaro  et  al . 1999 ; horiuchi  et  al .",
    "2011 ; magnelli  et  al .",
    "2009 ) . since higher redshift sn  ii rates have larger uncertainty , we use the measured nearby sn  ii rate and assume that the sn  ii rate is increasing in proportion to the cosmic star formation rate .",
    "the progenitors of sne  ii are massive stars and have a very short delay time between star formation and explosion , which justifies this assumption .",
    "we use a nearby sn  ii rate of @xmath153 yr@xmath29 mpc@xmath154 ( li  et  al .",
    "2011 ) at @xmath155 , and a star formation rate @xmath156 ( hopkins & beacon 2006 ) .",
    "the sn  ii rate is then @xmath157 . using this assumption , the number of sne  ii available that potentially could be misclassified as sne  ia , @xmath131 , can be calculated using the equation below .    @xmath158    where @xmath159(@xmath17 ) represents the control times of sne  ii .",
    "we note in particular that this model for the sn  ii rates is in agreement with the @xmath160 sn  ii rate from dahlen  et  al .",
    "+      in this subsection , we estimate the number of sne  ib / c in our sample of 39 sne  ia .",
    "in addition to the 2 sne  ib / c that are found from their colors , we estimate that there are another @xmath161 sne  ib / c are in the sample .",
    "we compare this number with the number that one would infer from evolving local sne ib / c rates to higher redshift and we estimate the redshift distribution of the sne ib / c in our sn  ia sample .    as described in ",
    "[ discriminatingibc ] , the candidate refinement indicates that approximately 2 out of the 14 sne  i with color information are sne  ib / c .",
    "this yields an estimated observed sn  ib / c contamination percentage of @xmath162 based on the combined application of lightcurve shape and color - color selection .    of the 39 lightcurve - selected sn  ia candidates 8 have spectroscopic confirmation and an additional 10 possess colors expected for sne  ia , leaving a pool of 21 lightcurve - selected candidates that could still harbour sne  ib / c .",
    "while it is encouraging that color classification has revealed only minor contamination from sne  ib / c , the implication is that roughly 3 additional sne  ib / c remain in this unconfirmed pool .",
    "for these a statistical correction can be applied if their number and redshift distribution can be estimated . since spectroscopically - confirmed sne  ia are not present in the unconfirmed pool , it could be argued that such objects should also be removed from the color - color classified subsample .",
    "the rationale here is that since spectroscopic observations may suffer greater selection biases than color observations , the set of spectroscopically - confirmed objects may be less representative of the unconfirmed pool than is the set of objects with colors .",
    "kolmogorov - smirnov tests of either the redshift distributions or the peak magnitudes indicate that the spectroscopically - confirmed and color - color subsamples are consistent with the unconfirmed pool with @xmath163 .",
    "while there is no direct evidence of differential bias , this approach may be considered more conservative . in this case",
    "the removal of 2 spectroscopically - typed sne from the sample of 14 objects with color - color information would raise the observed contamination rate to 2 out of 12 objects , or @xmath164% .    while correlated , these various estimates are consistent with a sn  ib / c contamination rate of @xmath165% . though the uncertainty is large due to the small number of color samples , we adopt this rate for the unconfirmed subsample .",
    "this would imply an additional @xmath161 undetected sne  ib / c in the unconfirmed pool .",
    "combined with the 2 sne  ib / c detected via color selection this leads to a estimated total of @xmath166 sne  ib / c in the lightcurve - shape selected sample .",
    "this residual sn  ib / c contamination is treated as a systematic uncertainty .",
    "the second component of the statistical correction of the unconfirmed pool is to determine the expected redshift distribution .",
    "the core collapse sn rate , the sn  ib / c luminosity function and the survey control time must then be included to predict the final redshift distribution .",
    "figure  [ ibcnumber ] shows the result of such a calculation using the luminosity function of sn  ib / c from nearby complete survey ( li  et  al .",
    "2011 ) to calculate the control time , and assuming the observed fraction of sn  ib / c to sn  ia ( li  et  al . 2011 ) and core - collapse sn rate evolution ( dahlen  et  al . 2012 ) .",
    "the expected number of contaminating sne  ib / c is @xmath167 .",
    "this number is consistent with the number estimated directly from the observation , @xmath166 .",
    "the two objects , 2 - 038 and 4 - 100 , classified as a sn  ib / c via their color are at @xmath168 and @xmath169 , respectively  right near the peak of the calculated distribution in figure  [ ibcnumber ] .    in summary",
    ", we estimate that a total of @xmath166 sne  ib / c contaminate the lightcurve - selected sn  i sample .",
    "we use color information to directly remove objects 2 - 038 and 4 - 100 .",
    "the remaining @xmath161 sne are subtracted using the redshift distribution of figure  [ ibcnumber ] using the appropriate scaling .",
    "since we have only a limited color sample to estimate sn  ib / c contamination , the impact of the uncertainty is large in the lowest bin ( @xmath170 ) , and is comparable to the poisson uncertainties associated with the detected sn  ia sample ( table  4 ) .",
    "however , this effect becomes much smaller beyond @xmath171 , where we want to constrain the rate .",
    "we note that reasonable changes to the color selection procedure , or to the shape of the sn  ib / c redshift distribution , have negligible effect relative to the poisson errors . +    ( 80mm,60mm)figure6.eps",
    "the sn  ia rate is obtained from equations  35 . the observed number ( @xmath119 ) of sne  ia in each redshift bin is obtained from equation  5 , and is shown in figure  14 .",
    "we show the sn  ia rate in each redshift bin of @xmath172 in table  5 .",
    "the results include systematic and statistical errors .",
    "these redshift bins are the same as those of dahlen  et  al .",
    "the effective redshift @xmath173 of each bin is the average redshift in the bin , weighted by the control time and volume , and is given by    @xmath174    we now itemize the causes of systematic uncertainties and the methods used to estimate their sizes , and then summarize the results in table  [ sys_tab ] .",
    "\\(1 ) in generating artificial sne  ii , we adopted a ratio of type  ii - p to type  ii - l of 2:1 ( richardson  et  al .",
    "however the real distribution of type  ii subtypes is not well - known . using",
    "a different ratio will change the fraction of misclassifications of sn  ii as sn  ia , @xmath126 .",
    "we adopt different ratios of 1:1 and 3:1 and recalculate the sn  ia rates in each case . as plotted in figure  [ time ] , the effect of changing the ratio is minor ( up to @xmath175% ) . the impact on the final sn  ia rate depends on the redshift range ( shown in table  [ sys_tab ] ) .",
    "\\(2 ) artificial sne  ii were generated using the peak magnitude distribution of low - redshift sne  ii found by the sdss - ii sn survey .",
    "since the observed luminosity distribution is not complete for fainter sne  ii , we carefully corrected the magnitude distribution using the magnitude limit curve ( see the discussion in  [ simulatinglc ] ) .",
    "we checked how the correction factor changes if the magnitude limit is moved 0.2 mag brighter / fainter .",
    "as in figure  [ time ] , the effect of changing this threshold is minor ; resulting in @xmath175% changes in the rate .",
    "we take the half of this difference as a systematic .",
    "\\(3 ) in our baseline calculation we accounted for contamination from sne  ib / c by color - color selection discussed in  [ discriminatingibc ] .",
    "this makes @xmath161 additional sn  ib / c contaminating the sn  ia sample after removing two objects classified as sn  ib / c ( 2 - 038 and 4 - 100 ) .",
    "the effect of changing the number of sn  ib / c is greatest in the lowest - bin . in a bin with small number of sn  ia , the contamination from sn  ib / c can be the biggest uncertainty .",
    "this means that more color information would have helped to better constrain the rate at @xmath176 , and such color information will be important in future surveys .",
    "\\(4 ) in  [ agn ] , we removed two likely agn .",
    "there remained one source near core without x - ray detections or spectroscopic or color constraints .",
    "if that source were an agn , or if one of the rejected x - ray detections were a sn  ia , the resulting error would be 2.6% .",
    "we take this as the systematic error due to agn ( i.e. , @xmath177 in equation  5 ) .",
    "\\(5 ) we separately consider the contamination from the core collapse sne in the high - redshift bin ( @xmath178 ) . as",
    "noted in  3.3 , the control time for type  ii sne is very small at @xmath179 , but there might exist very bright core collapse sne .",
    "boissier & prantzos ( 2009 ) show the magnitude distribution of sne  ib / c and ii from a large but heterogenous sample .",
    "most of these sne are fainter than @xmath180 mag and there are very few bright sne of @xmath181 mag .",
    "however the magnitudes are discovery magnitudes , and serve only as lower limits on the peak magnitudes .",
    "the ib / c sample of richardson  et  al .",
    "( 2006 ) contains three very bright sne  ic that would be detectable and possibly mistaken for sne  ia at high - redshift ( @xmath182 ) .",
    "we estimate the contamination ratio of bright sne using the magnitude distribution of figure  6 of bazin  et  al .",
    "there are four core collapse sne ( one object is a sn",
    "ib / c and three objects are sne  ii ) that have peak absolute magnitudes that are around @xmath183 . in this figure , there are approximately 50 sne  ia with a similar magnitude .",
    "therefore the contamination from core collapse sne in the high - redshift bin is estimated to be @xmath184% .",
    "\\(6 ) in the control time calculation we assumed that the average stretch changes with redshift in the manner prescribed by to howell  et  al . ( 2007 ) .",
    "if instead we recalculate the control time using the local stretch distribution in every redshift bin we find a somewhat lower control time in the highest redshift bin , leading to a @xmath185 increase in the estimated sn  ia rate for @xmath186 .",
    "this is the dominant source of systematic uncertainty in this bin .",
    "\\(7 ) the effect from the dust extinction of host galaxy is the most uncertain factor in the rate calculation .",
    "recall that the sample used for the control calculation was based on sne  ia uncorrected for dust extinction .",
    "this sample has a tail extending fainter than the @xmath187 limit given by the minimal dust model .",
    "thus , if the minimal dust model is taken as a reference , our rates decrease by 2.9% , 6.5% , and 11.9% , respectively , in each redshift bin .",
    "if instead extinction is much stronger than in our observed reference sample , our rates will be underestimated .",
    "b12 examined various dust models to investigate the extinction effects . according to their estimate , the most extreme dust model based on hatano  et  al .",
    "1998 ( `` dust model a '' in their paper ) resulted in up to  50% changes in rates .",
    "though our approach is different from b12 ( i.e. , they constructed sn  ia luminosity function from two parameter families ) , we examined how large the effect of this extreme dust model is .",
    "we simulated the control time in the same manner as b12 ( see figure  [ time ] ) , and estimated the differences to be + 28.2% , + 43.0% , and + 47.8% , respectively , in each redshift bin .",
    "this result is consistent with the estimate of b12 .",
    "we wish to include this as a systematic uncertainty , but we will report it separately in the systematics in table  4 because , unlike our other systematics , the size of this systematic is highly speculative .",
    "several studies have indicated that the mean extinction increases with redshift ( mannucci  et  al .",
    "2007 ; holwerda 2008 ) , so this issue may be most important in our highest redshift bin .",
    "b12 took a systematic uncertainty of 50% due to possible unaccounted for dust extinction .",
    "as examples , in figure  15 we show uncertainties of 50% , and that of the minimal dust model .",
    "we note that even though the extinction - corrected rate is uncertain , our base measurement is a good representation of the rate to be used for predicting future sn searches at high redshift .",
    "we fit the sn  ia rates with a power law ( e.g. , pain et  al . 2002 ) , @xmath188 in this fit , we use the sn  ia rate obtained in redshift bins of @xmath189 .",
    "the best fit values of @xmath190 and @xmath191 are @xmath192    we show the fit in figure  [ ratefit ] , and the expected number ( @xmath118 ) obtained by this fit in figure  [ num ] .",
    "( 80mm,60mm)figure15.eps      here , we check the consistency of our results with previous works ( figure  [ ratepl ] ) .",
    "first , we compare nearby and mid - redshift sn  ia rates with our results . li  et  al .",
    "( 2011 ) derived a nearby sn  ia rate from 274 sne  ia from the lick observatory supernova search ( loss ) .",
    "dilday  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ) measured the nearby sn  ia rate at @xmath193 using sne  ia obtained by the sdss - ii sn survey . recently",
    ", perrett  et  al .",
    "( 2012 ) determined the sn  ia rate in @xmath194 range with a very small uncertainty using the dataset of snls .",
    "these results are quite consistent with our fitted power - law curve .",
    "we also compare our measurements to those at similar or slightly higher redshifts .",
    "graur  et  al .",
    "( 2011 ; hereafter gr11 ) obtained high - redshift sn  ia rates in the subaru deep field ( sdf ) using the multi - color sed fitting classification method ( poznanski  et  al .",
    "gr11 carried out very deep photometric observations and detected very high - redshift sne  ia up to @xmath21 .",
    "they used one epoch with a reference epoch , and thus could not employ our light curve fitting method .",
    "on the other hand , dahlen  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ; hereafter da08 ) identified sne with spectroscopic observations of goods sn survey , and measured sn  ia rates up to @xmath18 .",
    "b12 also derived sn  ia in this same redshift range from _",
    "hubble space telescope _",
    "cluster supernova survey .",
    "even though these studies used different samples and techniques , our result and the results from these studies are consistent within the uncertainties .    in the highest redshift regime ( @xmath19 )",
    ", the sn  ia rate is still uncertain .",
    "gr11 show that the sn  ia rate remains high beyond this redshift , while the sn  ia rates of da08 are flat from @xmath3 to @xmath195 , and then show a sharp decline at @xmath18 . as noted in  5 , b12 also found that different assumptions about host - galaxy dust extinction can induce systematic differences between measurements .",
    "it is therefore not yet clear if we have observed the peak in the volumetric sn  ia rate .",
    "according to galaxy studies ( e.g. , hopkins & beacom 2006 ) , the peak of the cosmic star formation rate is at @xmath1963 .",
    "based on the peak in the cosmic star formation rate , we estimate that the delay time of sne  ia at high redshifts is @xmath197 - 3 gyr . in order to determine whether sne  ia with the shortest delay times are dominant or",
    "not , it is necessary to observe more samples at @xmath198 .",
    "this will be a key issue for future sn  ia surveys .",
    "one of these is the hsc transient survey , which will use _ hyper suprime - cam _ on the subaru telescope . in this survey",
    ", @xmath199 sne  ia will be detected with @xmath200 , and thus provide useful information about the high - redshift sn  ia rates . at the same time , at low redshift it will construct a complete sample of sne of all types , to faint luminosities and/or high values of dust extinction . both the luminosity and extinction distributions will help in refining future rates calculations at high redshift .",
    "( 80mm,60mm)figure16.eps    we also check for consistency with totani  et  al .",
    "( 2008 ; hereafter to08 ) .",
    "to08 measured the delay time distribution of sne  ia using the same variable object catalog of m08 , but used a different method to select sne  ia .",
    "to08 selected 65 sn  ia candidates showing significant spatial offset from the center of host galaxies with an old stellar population .",
    "however , not all of their candidates are sne  ia due to the uncertainty in the selection method .",
    "to08 estimated that 82% of the 65 candidates were actually sne  ia .",
    "we check their candidates by our light - curve fitting method . out of the 65 candidates in to08 ,",
    "19 candidates have light curves with a sufficient number of epochs and sufficient signal - to - noise to perform our light - curve fitting .",
    "fifteen candidates ( 79% of the 19 candidates ) are identified as sne  ia .",
    "this result indicates that our selection of sne  ia is consistent with the selection of to08 .",
    "in this paper we have presented new measurements of the high - redshift sn  ia rate , using objects selected from the sxds variable object survey .",
    "each variable object was observed in the @xmath1-band at 5 - 7 epochs for about two months , which is sufficient to build light curves .",
    "the variable objects are classified by comparing their light curves with template light curves .",
    "out of 1040 variable objects , 44 sn  i candidates are selected . after excluding a sn  ia beyond @xmath201 , and using ancillary data to exclude two likely agns and two likely sne ib / c , we construct a sample of 39 sne ia that are then used to derive the rates .",
    "using simulated light curves , we correct the number of sn  ia candidates for incompleteness due to misclassifcation . the control time is also calculated with artificial sn light curves .",
    "finally , we derive the sn  ia rate in several redshift bins between @xmath2 .",
    "our rate measurements are the most distant yet obtained using light curves from ground - based telescopes .",
    "we have considered a number of systematic factors affecting the rates .",
    "chief among these is the correction for extinction .",
    "however , even using conservative estimates of the systematic error , the statistical errors are comparable in size . improved systematics control will be much more important for future rates measurements based on much larger samples .",
    "our sne  ia rates are consistent with the rates that have been derived in earlier studies .",
    "up to @xmath202 , the rate continues to increase and is well described by a simple power law .",
    "the sdxs survey was relatively inefficient at finding sne  ia beyond @xmath203 , so we are unable to either confirm or refute the downturn that has been seen in searches done with hst beyond this redshift .",
    "the upcoming hsc transient survey is considerably more efficient in finding sne beyond @xmath203 than the sxds survey , thus offering us the possibility of measuring the rates of sne  ia in this important redshift range with unprecedented precision .",
    "we would like to thank the subaru telescope staff for their invaluable assistance .",
    "this work was supported in part with scientific research grants from the ministry of education , science , culture , and sports , science and technology ( mext ) of japan , and by the grant - in - aid for the global coe program `` the next generation of physics , spun from universality and emergence '' from mext .",
    "j.o , y.i . and t.m .",
    "has been financially supported by the japan society for the promotion of science ( jsps ) through the jsps research fellowship .",
    "this work was also supported in part by the director , office of science , office of high energy and nuclear physics and the office of advanced scientific computing research , of the u.s .",
    "department of energy ( doe ) under contract nos .",
    "de - fg02 - 92er40704 , de - ac02 - 05ch11231 , de - fg02 - 06er06 - 04 , and de - ac02 - 05ch11231 .",
    "akiyama , m. ,  et  al . in preparation alard , c. , & lupton , r. h. 1998 , apj , 503 , 325 alard , c. 2000 , a&as , 144 , 363 amanullah , r. , lidman , c. , rubin , d. ,  et  al .",
    "2010 , apj , 716 , 712 arnouts , s. , cristiani , s. , moscardini , l. ,  et  al .",
    "1999 , mnras , 310 , 540 astier , p. ,  et  al .",
    "2006 , a&a , 447 , 31 barris , b. j. , & tonry , j. l. 2006 , apj , 637 , 427 barbary , k. ; aldering , g. ; amanullah , r. 2012 , apj , 745 , 31 bazin , g. ,  et  al .",
    "2009 , a&a , 499 , 653 bloom , j. s. , kasen , d. , shen , k. j. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 744 , l17 blondin s. , prieto j. l. , patat f. , challis p. , 2009 ,",
    "apj , 693 , 207 boissier s. & prantzos n. , 2009 , a&a , 503 , 137 bolzonella , m. , miralles , j",
    ".- m . , & pell .",
    "r. 2000 , a&a , 363 , 476 botticella , m.t . ,  et  al . 2008 , a&a , 479 , 49 brown , p. j. , et al . 2012 , apj , 753 , 22 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s. 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 buta , r. j. 1982 , pasp , 94 , 578b cappellaro , e. , evans , r. , & turatto , m. 1999 , a&a , 351 , 459 chomiuk , l. , soderberg , a.m. , moe , m. ,  et  al . , 2012 .",
    "apj , 750 , 164 dandrea , c. ,  et  al .",
    "2010 , apj , 708 , 661 dahlen , t. ,  et  al .",
    "2008 , apj , 681 , 462 dahlen , t. ,  et  al .",
    "2012 , apj , 757 , 70d de vaucouleurs , g.  et  al .",
    "1981 , pasp , 93 , 36d dilday , b.  et  al .",
    "2008 , apj , 682 , 262d fassia , a.  et  al .",
    "2000 , mnras , 318 , 1093f fioc , m. & rocca - volmerange , b. , 1997 , a&a 326 , 950 fioc , m. & rocca - volmerange , b. , 1999 , a&a , 351 , 869 frieman , j. a. ,  et  al .",
    "2008 , aj , 135 , 338f furusawa , h. ,  et  al .",
    "2008 , apjs , 176 , 1f geier , s.  et  al . , 2007 , a&a , 464 , 299 gonzlez hernndez , j. i. ,  et  al . 2009 ,",
    "apj , 691 , 1 graur , o. ,  et  al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 417 , 616 graur , o. ,  et  al .",
    "2013 , arxiv:1310.3495 hachisu , i. , kato , m. , & nomoto , k. 1996 , apj , 470 , l97 hachisu , i. , kato , m. , & nomoto , k. 2008 , apj , 683 , l127 hancock , p. , gaensler , b.m .",
    ", murphy , t. , 2011 , apj 735 , l35 .",
    "hatano , k. , branch , d. , & deaton , j. 1998 , apj , 502 , 177 hicken , m. ,  et  al .",
    "2009 , apj , 700 , 1097 holwerda , b. w. 2008 , mnras , 386 , 475 hopkins , a. m. , & beacom , j. f. , 2006 , apj , 651 , 142 horiuchi , s. , beacom , j. f. , kochanek ,  et  al .",
    "2011 , apj , 738 , 154 howell , d. a. , sullivan , m. , conley , a. , and carlberg , r. , 2007 , apj , 667 , l37 hsiao , e. y. , conley , a. , howell , d. a. ,  et  al .",
    "2007 , apj , 663 , 1187 iben , i. jr . , & totukov , a. v. 1984 , apjs , 54 , 335 ihara , y. ,  et  al .",
    "2007 , pasj , 59 , 811 ilbert , o. ,  et  al . 2006 ,",
    "a&a , 457 , 841 kerzendorf , w.  e. ,  et  al .",
    "2009 , apj , 701 , 1665 kessler , r. , becker , a. c. , cinabro , d. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjs , 185 , 32 kessler , r. , bassett , b , belov , p ,  et  al .",
    "2010 , pasp , 122 , 1415 knop , r. a. ,  et  al .",
    "2003 , apj , 598 , 102 koester , d. ,  et  al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 432 , 1025 kowalski , m. ,  et  al .",
    "apj , 686 , 749 kuznetsova , n. ,  et  al . 2008 , apj , 673 , 981 ruiz - lapuente , p. ,  et  al . 2004 , nature , 431 , 1069 leonard , d. c. ,  et  al . 2002 , pasp , 114 , 35 leonard , d. c. ,  et  al . 2002 , aj , 124 , 2490 li , w. ,  et  al . 2011 , mnras , 412 , 1441 lidman , c. ,  et  al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 430 , 843 lonsdale , s.  et  al .",
    "2004 , apjs , 154 , 54 madau , p. , della valle , m. , & panagia , n. 1998 , mnras , 297 , l17 mannucci , f. ,  et  al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 433 , 807 mannucci , f. , della valle , m. , & panagia , n. 2006 , mnras , 370 , 773 mannucci , f. , della valle , m. , & panagia , n. 2007 , mnras , 377 , 1229 magnelli , b. , elbaz , d. , chary , r. r. ,  et  al . 2009 .",
    "a&a , 496 , 57 maguire , k. , sullivan , m. , patat , f. ,  et  al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 436 , 222 mattila , s. , dahlen , t. , efstathiou , a. ,  et  al .",
    "2012 , apj , 756 , 111 maoz , d. , & mannucci , f. , 2008 , mnras , 388 , 421 maoz , d. , & mannucci , f. 2012 , pasa , 29 , 447 margutti , r. , soderberg , a. m. , chomiuk , l. ,  et  al .",
    "2012 , apj , 751 , 134 melinder , j. , dahlen , t .",
    ", menca trinchant , l. ,  et  al .",
    "2012 , a&a , 545 , 96 miyazaki , s. ,  et  al .",
    "2002 , pasj , 54 , 833 morokuma , t. ,  et  al . 2008 ,",
    "apj , 676 , 163 morokuma , t. ,  et  al .",
    "2008 , apj , 676 , 121 morokuma , t. ,  et  al .",
    "2010 , pasj , 62 , 19 neill , j.d . ,  et  al .",
    "2006 , aj , 132 , 1126 nomoto , k. 1982 , apj , 253 , 798 nomoto , k. , iwamoto , k. , & kisimoto , n. 1997 , sci , 276 , 1378 nugent , p. , kim , a. , & perlmutter , s. 2002 , pasp , 114 , 803 nugent , p. e. , sullivan , m. , cenko , s. b. , et al .",
    "2011 , nature , 480 , 344 oda , t.  et  al .",
    "2008 , pasj , 60 , 169 pain , r.  et  al .",
    "2002 , apj , 577 , 120 panagia , n. , van dyk , s.d . ,",
    "weiler , k.w .",
    ",  et  al . , 2006 , apj , 646 , 369 .",
    "patat , f.  et  al .",
    "2007 , a&a , 474 , 931 prez - montero , e. , et  al .",
    "2007 , mnras , 381 , 125 perlmutter , s.  et  al .",
    ", 1997 , apj , 483 , 565 perlmutter , s.  et  al .",
    ", 1999 , apj , 517 , 565 perrett , k. , sullivan , m. , conley , a. ,  et  al . , 2012 .",
    "apj , 144 , 59 poznanski , d. , maoz , d. , and gal - yam , a. 2007 , aj , 134 , 1285p poznanski , d. ,  et  al .",
    "2007 , mnras , 382 , 1169p pritchet , c. , howell , a , and sullivan , m. 2008 , apjl , 683 , 25 quimby , r. ,  et  al .",
    "2007 , apj , 668 , l99 raskin c. , kasen d. , 2013 , apj , 772 , 1 richardson  et  al .",
    "2002 , aj , 123 , 745 richardson , d. , branch , d. , & baron , e. 2006 , aj , 131 , 2233 riess , a. g. ,  et  al .",
    "1998 , aj , 116 , 1009 , riess , a. g. ,  et  al .",
    "2007 , apj , 659 , 98 rola , c. et al .",
    "1997 , mnras , 289 , 419 sako , m.  et  al .",
    "2008 , aj , 135 , 348s sako , m.  et  al .",
    "2011 , apj , 738 , 162s sako , m.  et  al .",
    ", in preparation scalo , j. m. 1986 , fundam .",
    "cosmic phys .",
    ", 11 , 1 schaefer , b. e. & pagnotta , a. 2012 , nature , 481 , 164 sekiguchi , k.  et  al .",
    ", 2004 , baas , 205 , 8105 shen k. j. , guillochon j. , foley r. j. , 2013 , apj , 770 , l35 joshua d. simon .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 702 , 1157 smartt , s. j. , eldridge , j. j. , crockett , r. m. , & maund , j. r. 2009 , mnras , 395 , 1409 sternberg a.  et  al . , 2011 ,",
    "sci , 333 , 856 stritzinger m.  et  al . , 2010 , aj , 140 , 2036 sullivan , m.  et  al . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 648 , 868 sullivan , m. ,  et  al .",
    "2011 , apj , 737 , 102 suzuki , n. ,  et  al .",
    ", 2012 , a&a , 746 , 85 takanashi , n. , doi , m. , & yasuda , n. 2008 , mnras , 389 , 1577 tonry , j. l. , schmidt , b. p. , barris , b. ,  et  al .",
    "2003 , apj , 594 , 1 totani , t ,  et  al . , 2008 , pasj , 60 , 1327 ueda , y ,  et  al . , 2008 ,",
    "apjs , 179 , 124 wang , l. ,  et  al .",
    "2006 , apj , 641 , 50 wang , b. , & han , z. 2012 , newar , 56 , 122w warren , s.  et  al .",
    "2007 , mnras , 375 , 213 webbink , r. 1984 , apj , 277 , 355 wood - vasey , w. m. ,  et  al .",
    "2007 , apj , 666 , 694 yasuda , n. , & fukugita , m. 2010 , aj , 139 , 39         + sxdf - c & 1 & 02/09/29,30 & 0.0 & 2700 & 0.54 & 26.19 + sxdf - c & 2 & 02/11/01 & 32.6 & 1860 & 0.92 & 25.76 + sxdf - c & 3 & 02/11/02 & 33.5 & 1800 & 0.68 & 25.85 + sxdf - c & 4 & 02/11/05 & 36.7 & 2400 & 0.70 & 26.11 + sxdf - c & 5 & 02/11/09 & 40.5 & 2460 & 0.60 & 25.77 + sxdf - c & 6 & 02/11/27,29 & 59.8 & 4200 & 0.72 & 26.38 + sxdf - c & 7 & 02/12/07 & 68.4 & 3000 & 0.78 & 26.32 + sxdf - c & 8 & 03/10/20 & 385.7 & 5760 & 1.14 & 26.53 + sxdf - c & 9 & 03/10/21 & 386.5 & 7500 & 0.58 & 26.71 + sxdf - c & 10 & 05/09/28 & 1094.6 & 3600 & 1.00 & 26.04 +    sxdf - n & 1 & 02/09/29,30 & 0.0 & 3300 & 0.56 & 26.26 + sxdf - n & 2 & 02/11/01 & 32.4 & 2640 & 0.96 & 25.88 + sxdf - n & 3 & 02/11/02 & 33.3 & 1800 & 0.68 & 25.86 + sxdf - n & 4 & 02/11/09 & 40.3 & 2100 & 0.64 & 25.78 + sxdf - n & 5 & 02/11/29 & 60.3 & 3300 & 0.74 & 26.27 + sxdf - n & 6 & 03/09/22 & 357.5 & 4264 & 0.60 & 26.37 + sxdf - n & 7 & 03/10/02 & 367.6 & 1500 & 0.70 & 25.88 + sxdf - n & 8 & 03/10/21 & 386.5 & 3000 & 0.72 & 26.14 +    sxdf - s & 1 & 02/09/29,30 & 0.0 & 3300 & 0.52 & 26.28 + sxdf - s & 2 & 02/11/01 & 32.5 & 3600 & 1.04 & 25.91 + sxdf - s & 3 & 02/11/02 & 33.4 & 1800 & 0.70 & 25.83 + sxdf - s & 4 & 02/11/09 & 40.4 & 2580 & 0.66 & 25.60 + sxdf - s & 5 & 02/11/29 & 60.6 & 1500 & 0.82 & 26.00 + sxdf - s & 6 & 03/09/22 & 357.6 & 4500 & 0.54 & 26.45 + sxdf - s & 7 & 03/10/02 & 367.7 & 2040 & 0.68 & 26.00 + sxdf - s & 8 & 05/09/28 & 1094.6 & 3900 & 0.96 & 26.04 +    sxdf - e & 1 & 02/09/29,30 & 0.0 & 3300 & 0.60 & 26.25 + sxdf - e & 2 & 02/11/01 & 32.5 & 3000 & 1.04 & 25.97 + sxdf - e & 3 & 02/11/02 & 33.4 & 1800 & 0.70 & 25.83 + sxdf - e & 4 & 02/11/09 & 40.4 & 2820 & 0.66 & 26.78 + sxdf - e & 5 & 02/11/29 & 60.6 & 1800 & 0.80 & 26.03 + sxdf - e & 6 & 02/12/07 & 68.6 & 1209 & 1.54 & 25.19 + sxdf - e & 7 & 03/09/22 & 357.6 & 6000 & 0.62 & 26.58 + sxdf - e & 8 & 03/10/02 & 367.7 & 1271 & 0.68 & 25.71 + sxdf - e & 9 & 03/10/21 & 386.7 & 1400 & 0.88 & 25.51 + sxdf - e & 10 & 05/09/28 & 1094.6 & 3600 & 0.96 & 26.11 +    sxdf - w & 1 & 02/09/29,30 & 0.0 & 2400 & 0.54 & 26.14 + sxdf - w & 2 & 02/11/01 & 32.7 & 3000 & 0.96 & 25.96 + sxdf - w & 3 & 02/11/02 & 33.5 & 1800 & 0.66 & 25.84 + sxdf - w & 4 & 02/11/05 & 36.8 & 3060 & 0.76 & 25.98 + sxdf - w & 5 & 02/11/09 & 40.5 & 2100 & 0.64 & 25.97 + sxdf - w & 6 & 02/11/27,29 & 59.8 & 4200 & 0.74 & 26.39 + sxdf - w & 7 & 02/12/07 & 68.5 & 6483 & 1.04 & 26.34 + sxdf - w & 8 & 03/10/20,21 & 386.5 & 5460 & 0.66 & 26.46 +   +",
    "sxdf - n & 1 & 02/11/01 & 32.5 & 2400 & 0.85 & 26.37 + sxdf - n & 2 & 02/11/09 & 40.5 & 1920 & 0.81 & 26.02 + sxdf - n & 3 & 08/01/09 & 1927.3 & 2400 & 0.79 & 26.41 +        sxdf - w & 1 & 02/11/01 & 33.7 & 3360 & 0.91 & 26.27 + sxdf - w & 2 & 02/11/09 & 40.7 & 1920 & 0.65 & 25.92 + sxdf - w & 3 & 08/01/09 & 1927.5 & 2400 & 0.81 & 26.33 +   +",
    "sxdf - n & 1 & 02/11/04 & 35.3 & 2400 & 0.81 & 25.16 + sxdf - n & 2 & 02/11/05 & 36.2 & 600 & 0.79 & 24.22 + sxdf - n & 3 & 02/11/10 & 41.3 & 2340 & 1.03 & 24.93 + sxdf - n & 4 & 03/09/27 & 362.4 & 4860 & 0.71 & 25.99 +    sxdf - s & 1 & 02/11/04 & 35.4 & 2400 & 0.77 & 25.11 + sxdf - s & 2 & 02/11/05 & 36.3 & 600 & 0.81 & 24.18 + sxdf - s & 3 & 02/11/10 & 41.4 & 2700 & 0.85 & 24.97 + sxdf - s & 4 & 03/09/22 & 357.7 & 4800 & 0.69 & 25.61 +    sxdf - e & 1 & 02/11/04 & 35.4 & 2280 & 0.71 & 25.26 + sxdf - e & 2 & 02/11/05 & 36.3 & 1200 & 1.07 & 24.42 + sxdf - e & 3 & 02/11/10 & 41.4 & 4440 & 0.85 & 25.32 + sxdf - e & 4 & 03/09/26 & 361.5 & 4800 & 0.69 & 25.81 +    sxdf - w & 1 & 02/11/04 & 35.6 & 2700 & 0.81 & 25.19 + sxdf - w & 2 & 02/11/05 & 36.4 & 750 & 0.75 & 24.37 + sxdf - w & 3 & 02/11/10 & 41.6 & 6210 & 1.05 & 25.41 + sxdf - w & 4 & 03/09/27 & 362.4 & 4800 & 0.69 & 25.92 +    llcc name & reference & type & lightcurve points + sn1979c & devaucouleurs  et  al .",
    "1981 & ii - l & 23 ( u ) , 32 ( b ) , 31(v ) + sn1980k & buta 1982 & ii - l & 20 ( u ) , 25 ( b ) , 25 ( v ) + sn1998s & fassia  et  al .",
    "1998 & ii - n & 25 ( b ) , 26 ( v ) , 28 ( r ) , 21 ( i ) + sn1999em & leonard  et  al .",
    "2002 & ii - p & 29 ( u ) , 40 ( b ) , 41 ( v ) , 46 ( r ) , 44 ( i ) + sn1999gi & leonard  et  al .",
    "2002 & ii - p & 29 ( b ) , 30 ( v ) , 30 ( r ) , 30 ( i ) + sn2005 lb & sako  et  al . in prep .",
    "& ii & 1 ( @xmath207 ) , 15 ( @xmath208 ) , 14 ( @xmath209 ) , 12 ( @xmath210 ) , 13 ( @xmath17 ) + sn2005lc & sako  et  al . in prep . & ii & 20 ( @xmath207 ) , 24 ( @xmath208 ) , 24 ( @xmath209 ) , 23 ( @xmath210 ) , 25 ( @xmath17 ) + sn2006ez & sako  et  al . in prep .",
    "& ii & 21 ( @xmath207 ) , 21 ( @xmath208 ) , 22 ( @xmath209 ) , 20 ( @xmath210 ) , 22 ( @xmath17 ) + sn2006fg & dandrea  et  al .",
    "2009 & ii & 13 ( @xmath207 ) , 17 ( @xmath208 ) , 16 ( @xmath209 ) , 17 ( @xmath210 ) , 19 ( @xmath17 ) + sn2006fq & dandrea  et  al .",
    "2009 & ii & 12 ( @xmath207 ) , 22 ( @xmath208 ) , 22 ( @xmath209 ) , 21 ( @xmath210 ) , 22 ( @xmath17 ) + sn2006gq & dandrea  et  al .",
    "2009 & ii & 0 ( @xmath207 ) , 18 ( @xmath208 ) , 16 ( @xmath209 ) , 16 ( @xmath210 ) , 13 ( @xmath17 ) + sn2006 kg & sako  et  al . in prep .",
    "& ii & 20 ( @xmath207 ) , 20 ( @xmath208 ) , 20 ( @xmath209 ) , 20 ( @xmath210 ) , 19 ( @xmath17 ) +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present measurements of the rates of high - redshift type  ia supernovae derived from the subaru / xmm - newton deep survey ( sxds ) . </S>",
    "<S> we carried out repeat deep imaging observations with suprime - cam on the subaru telescope , and detected 1040 variable objects over 0.918  deg@xmath0 in the subaru / xmm - newton deep field . from the imaging observations , light curves in the observed @xmath1-band </S>",
    "<S> are constructed for all objects , and we fit the observed light curves with template light curves . out of the 1040 variable objects detected by the sxds </S>",
    "<S> , 39 objects over the redshift range @xmath2 are classified as type  ia supernovae using the light curves . </S>",
    "<S> these are among the most distant sn  ia rate measurements to date . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the type  ia supernova rate increase up to @xmath3 and may then flatten at higher redshift . </S>",
    "<S> the rates can be fitted by a simple power law , @xmath4 with @xmath5(stat.)@xmath6(syst.)@xmath7 , and @xmath8(stat.)@xmath9(syst . ) . </S>"
  ]
}