{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the long unsolved problems in optical and infrared astronomy is the nature of the diffuse interstellar bands ( dibs ) .",
    "the dibs represent more than 400 absorption features observed in optical and near - infrared spectra that are typically narrow ( full width at half - maximum intensity [ fwhm ] @xmath1 ) and weak ( less than 5% below the continuum ) , with central wavelengths that do not correspond with any known atomic or molecular species @xcite .",
    "they were first noticed in stellar spectra by @xcite .",
    "@xcite subsequently uncovered a number of dibs as ubiquitous interstellar features and their nature has been an enduring subject of speculation .",
    "it is now well established that sources ( or `` carriers '' ) of the dibs are found in the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "dib features remain stationary in spectroscopic binaries , and there are rough correlations between extinction and d column density with the intensity of dib features @xcite .",
    "searches for dibs in circumstellar shells have generally reported null detections or results that can not distinguish whether the absorption arises in circumstellar material or the intervening ism @xcite .",
    "@xcite was the first to suspect dust grains and/or molecules as possible carriers of the dibs .",
    "after nearly a century of observational , theoretical , and experimental work , these two original suggestions have remained the primary candidates , occasionally swapping in popularity ( see @xcite , and references therein ) .",
    "current research favors multiple carriers produced by a mix of fairly large and complex carbon - based ( `` organic '' ) polyatomic molecules composed of cosmically abundant elements such as h , c , o , and n. there has been considerable investigation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pahs ) as dib carriers , but as yet no firm associations between pah species and dib features have been found ( see @xcite for a recent review ) .",
    "insights into the chemical and physical properties of dib carriers has come from study of their behavior in different interstellar environments , especially extragalactic ones .",
    "most studies have focused on nearby star systems including the magellanic clouds and m31 @xcite .",
    "outside of limited work with quasars ( e.g. , @xcite ) , only supernovae ( sn ) have been bright enough to probe dibs beyond the local group ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) . in general ,",
    "extragalactic studies have shown that dib carrier abundances can be similar to galactic values , though systematic differences sometimes exist .    in this _",
    "letter _ we report on recent observations of a broad - lined type ic sn that exhibits some of the strongest dibs ever detected in an extragalactic source .",
    "these absorptions undergo changes in intensity over relatively short timescales in a manner that suggests that the sn explosion interacted with local carriers of dibs .",
    "we conclude that moderate - resolution spectra of sn obtained shortly after outburst may provide a new and powerful probe of dibs and offer clues about the progenitor systems of these explosions .",
    "sn2012ap was first detected by the lick observatory supernova search at coordinates @xmath2 = 05@xmath300@xmath413@xmath572 and @xmath6 = @xmath720@xmath851@xmath92 in the face - on galaxy ngc 1729 ( @xmath10 mpc ; @xcite ) on feb .",
    "10.23 ut @xcite .",
    "the sn is located in the outskirts of the host galaxy some 7.1kpc in projection from the nucleus in a region with no obvious star formation .",
    "the first reports of optical spectra of sn2012ap classified it as a type ib / c sn similar to sn 2008d not long after explosion @xcite .",
    "this prompted extensive follow - up observations by our group that included optical spectra obtained with the 10 m southern african large telescope ( salt ) using the robert stobie spectrograph ( rss ; @xcite ) , the 10 m keck - i telescope using the low resolution imaging spectrometer ( lris ; * ? ? ? * ) , and the mmt 6.5 m telescope using the blue channel spectrograph @xcite .",
    "the spectra shown in figure  [ fig : spectra - wide ] are part of a larger dataset ( milisavljevic et al .",
    ", in prep . ) .",
    "unlike sn2008d , which transitioned to a type ib sn exhibiting conspicuous , spectra of sn2012ap obtained weeks later continued to show broad features associated with ejecta traveling @xmath11 .",
    "@xcite reported that these later spectra were similar to those observed in broad - lined sn  ic such as sn1998bw and sn2002ap @xmath122 weeks after maximum light ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : spectra - wide ] ) .",
    "further examination shows that the later spectra of sn2012ap also resemble those of sn2009bb , a sn  ib / c that had a substantial relativistic outflow powered by a central engine @xcite .          superimposed on the broad - lined type ic features of sn2012ap are conspicuous absorptions with equivalent widths ( ews ) @xmath13associated with dibs at the rest wavelength of the host galaxy .",
    "the dib features are strongest at 4428 , 5780 , and 6283 , which are the wavelengths of well - known dibs typically seen in stellar spectra @xcite . in figure",
    "[ fig : spectra - narrow ] we display enlarged regions around these features .",
    "not shown is another possible dib detection near 6203  that may be contaminated by an oh telluric line at an observed wavelength of 6280 .",
    "the central wavelengths of these dibs do not change with time , but the intensities do exhibit measurable changes that are not uniform across different features ( fig .  [",
    "fig : spectra - narrow ] , right column ) .",
    "the ew of dib @xmath144428 decreased by @xmath15  over @xmath16 days and dib @xmath146283 decreased by @xmath17  over @xmath18 days .",
    "the dib @xmath145780 feature , on the other hand , shows a weak but measurable increase of @xmath19  over @xmath20 days .",
    "the d line at rest with respect to the host shows negligible change . the d line associated with foreground milky way",
    "extinction shows no change , as expected .",
    "the dib absorptions seen in the spectra of sn2012ap are among the strongest extragalactic detections ever reported .",
    "detections of extragalactic dibs at this distance are rare and thus interesting as they allow one to compare galactic ism chemical properties with extragalactic ones .",
    "however , what is unique and most informative about the spectra of sn2012ap is that the dib absorption strengths _ change with time _ and that _ the changes are not uniform across different dib features _ ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : spectra - narrow ] ) .",
    "various types of interaction between the sn and dib carrier material may explain the observed changes ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "we favor the scenario that the carrier material is nearby and the sn is actively interacting with it .",
    "this interaction can take many forms .",
    "photons may modify or destroy carrier material via ionization and/or dissociation .",
    "if extremely nearby , the forward blast wave initiated by the explosion and traveling with velocity @xmath21 ( chakraborti et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "will disrupt molecules and dust grains within a @xmath22pc radius in the first 30 days .",
    "sn2012ap peaked in the @xmath23 band on feb 18.2 ut ( milisavljevic et al .",
    ", in prep . ) , implying that the sn flux increased and then decreased at optical wavelengths as the intensities of dib @xmath144428 and @xmath146283 became weaker and dib @xmath145780 became slightly stronger .",
    "this behavior is consistent with active interaction wherein separate dib carriers differing in robustness and/or location are affected by the sn independently .    using the time evolution of the blackbody temperature and total luminosity derived from photometry data ( milisavljevic et al . , in prep . ) , we estimated the uv flux in the 550ev spectral range as a function of distance and time from sn2012ap . to estimate the lifetimes of molecular material in this radiation field , we approximated the photoabsorption cross sections in this frequency range for small neutral molecules @xcite and pahs @xcite , calculated the photoabsorption rate , and assumed that all absorption events lead to ionization or dissociation . because these frequencies are above the peak of the blackbody curve , the absorption rates are highly sensitive to the ionization potential ( ip ) of a molecule , and the shape and size of its cross section .",
    "the inferred lifetimes vary by several orders of magnitude , but within a distance of @xmath22pc , at peak luminosity all but the smallest neutral molecules are expected to have lifetimes much less than one day . within this distance , the population of most neutral species will be rapidly depleted unless their formation from the breakdown of larger material is even more rapid .",
    "cations , owing to their higher ips , are estimated to have lifetimes on the order of days under the same conditions .    in this context , it is interesting to note that the timescale for the increase in dib @xmath145780 is comparable to that of the decay in dib @xmath144428 , possibly suggesting that the dib @xmath145780 carrier is a photoproduct of the dib @xmath144428 carrier . in constrast ,",
    "the decay in dib @xmath146283 occurs over a longer timescale , suggesting the carrier is either more photostable or is more extended .",
    "the ratio of the strength of dib @xmath145780 to dib @xmath145797 ( the latter is not detected toward sn2012ap ) is positively correlated with increasing uv radiation environments @xcite .",
    "the increase in strength of dib @xmath145780 in these observations suggests that this trend continues to very extreme uv environments .",
    "fullerenes have been proposed as dib carriers , and are significantly more stable against dissociation by uv radiation than smaller molecules , typically requiring energies of more than 10ev for dissociation @xcite .",
    "this increased dissociation energy might allow fullerenes to survive longer in the radiation environment around sn2012ap . using the photoabsorption cross section of c@xmath24 as a representative case @xcite",
    ", we estimate that neutral fullerenes ( ip @xmath25ev ) near sn2012ap will be rapidly ionized , but fullerene cations ( ip @xmath26ev ) should have lifetimes of order days .",
    "the fact that the observed changes in ew of these dib features occur on the timescale of days in such an intense uv field suggests the carriers are fairly robust to ionization and dissociation ( particularly dib @xmath145780 ) , consistent with small cations or charged fullerenes .",
    "two other core - collapse sn in the literature exhibit conspicuous dibs in low - resolution spectra , and we examined their archival data : the type ib sn2008d with spectra published by @xcite , and the broad - lined type ib / c sn2009bb published by @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig : examples ] shows early - time spectra of these objects , with conspicuous dib features highlighted .",
    "although the relatively low spectral resolutions and limited temporal sampling prevent detailed analyses of these additional objects , the archival spectra suggest that some dib features seen in these other sn have both narrow and broad components and that they may vary as they do sn2012ap .",
    "all three sn exhibited broad spectral features associated with ejecta moving at high velocities ( @xmath27 ) within weeks of explosion and all were observed to have a color excess @xmath28 mag that implies substantial extinction ( @xcite ; milisavljevic et al .",
    ", in prep . )",
    "sn2012ap and sn2009bb share similar explosion parameters of estimated ejecta mass ( @xmath294m@xmath30 ) , @xmath31ni mass ( @xmath32m@xmath30 ) , and explosion kinetic energy ( @xmath33erg ) . on the other hand",
    ", sn2008d is different in that its broad lines disappeared within weeks as it transitioned to a sn  ib and its explosion energy ( @xmath346 @xmath35erg ; @xcite ) is lower than those of sn2012ap and sn2009bb .",
    "chance alignments between dib carrier - rich molecular clouds and these sn are possible",
    ". however , given that the three sn with conspicuous dib absorptions examined in the literature are spectroscopically similar , it may be that the sn progenitor systems are related to the sources of the dibs .",
    "if true , the carrier material responsible for the observed dib absorptions in these sn should lie fairly close to the explosion site and could be associated with mass loss from the progenitor star .",
    "mass loss in massive stars is influenced by a number of factors including the strength of their winds , rotation , the presence of a binary companion , possible eruptive mass - loss episodes , and environmental metallicity @xcite .",
    "to investigate what role metallicity might play in linking the three sn , the relative strengths of narrow lines from coincident host - galaxy emission at the site of sn2012ap were measured using the method described by @xcite . from the n2 diagnostic of @xcite , we measure an oxygen abundance @xmath36 with uncertainty 0.06 dex . adopting a solar metallicity of @xmath37 @xcite ,",
    "our measurement indicates that sn2012ap exploded in an environment of around solar metallicity that lies in between the metallicity estimates of sn2009bb ( 1.73.5z@xmath30 ; @xcite ) and sn2008d ( 0.51z@xmath30 ; @xcite ) .",
    "considering broad - lined sn ic are typically found in environments of subsolar metallicity @xcite , the metallicity of these three sn is somewhat anomalous .",
    "however , these objects were discovered by surveys targeting high - mass metal - rich galaxies , so this weak trend may be influenced by an observational bias .",
    "a handful of reports connect strong dib features observed in a narrow subset of mass - losing stars with circumstellar shells ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the circumstellar material is often nitrogen - rich and the strength of the associated dib features may vary @xcite .",
    "@xcite identified wolf - rayet ( wr ) stars of the wn subtype and luminous blue variable ( lbv ) stars enriched in nitrogen as candidate objects with circumstellar shells containing dib carriers , and proposed that nitrogen could act either as a constituent of the dib carriers or as a catalyst for their production .",
    "it is intriguing that families of wr and lbv stars may be associated with dib features .",
    "wr stars are suspected progenitors of sn  ib / c @xcite , and have been implicated for sn2008d and sn2009bb @xcite . although lbvs are not widely believed to be the direct progenitors of sn  ib / c , wr stars can evolve from a prior lbv phase @xcite .",
    "these stars exhibit varying degrees of asymmetric mass loss ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) , thus an observer s line of sight with respect to a circumstellar disk could be an important factor in explaining why strong dib detections like those reported here are rare .    finally , we note that varying strength in narrow absorption lines attributable to interaction between a sn and a local environment has recently been recognized in a growing number of cases , with significant implications for the nature of the progenitor systems ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "however , those reports have been for d , , h@xmath38 , , and lines with line - of - sight blueshifted velocities of @xmath39  originating from circumstellar material around type ia sn .",
    "this is not the same as what is being observed in the core - collapse sn2012ap , where the dib features are near zero velocity and are associated with a carrier material having radically different physical properties .",
    "the broad - lined type ic sn2012ap exhibits dib absorptions that are among the strongest ever detected in an extragalactic object .",
    "the dib features centered around 4428 , 5780 , and 6283  undergo changes in ew over relatively short timescales ( @xmath40 days ) indicative of interaction between the sn and dib carriers .",
    "similar absorptions observed in archival spectra of two additional sn suggests that sn2012ap may belong to a subset of energetic sn  ib / c that exhibit changes in conspicuous dib absorption features .",
    "if true , this correlation is consistent with the dib carrier - rich material being located close to the explosion , fairly resistent to the strong uv field , and potentially associated with mass loss of the progenitor star .    our data with 47    resolution that monitored the spectral evolution of sn2012ap during its rise and fall in flux was on the cusp of detection for this uniquely strong source of dib absorptions .",
    "only the broadest dib features known to have fwhm widths of approximately @xmath41   were observed in our data set .",
    "thus , multi - epoch observations of sn with spectral resolutions of @xmath42    beginning within days of explosion could uncover the presence of a larger family of dib features .",
    "such observations would be much more sensitive to possible variations in absorption strength , as well as detect possible subtle changes in the velocities of the nai / dib features . observed in this way , sn with dib absorptions have the potential to reveal unique information about mass - loss environment of their progenitor systems and probe dib carriers in new ways that can bring us closer to understanding the their nature .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for a helpful , detailed and critical reading of the paper . t.",
    "snow kindly provided comments on an early draft of the paper .",
    "massey provided insightful comments .",
    "g. pignata , s. valenti , d. malesani , and g. leloudas shared archival spectra that were examined .",
    "many of the observations reported in this paper were obtained with the southern african large telescope .",
    "additional data presented herein were obtained at the w.  m. keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california , and nasa ; the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w.  m.  keck foundation .",
    "a. miller , p. nugent , and a. morgan helped obtain the keck observations .",
    "some observations also came from the mmt observatory , a joint facility of the smithsonian institution and the university of arizona .",
    "support was provided by the david and lucile packard foundation fellowship for science and engineering awarded to a.m.s .",
    "is supported by an nsf astronomy and astrophysics postdoctoral fellowship under award ast-1302771 .",
    "thanks the national research foundation of south africa . r.p.k . and j.c.w .",
    "are grateful for nsf grants ast-1211196 and ast-1109801 , respectively .",
    "a.v.f . and",
    "acknowledge generous support from gary and cynthia bengier , the richard and rhoda goldman fund , the christopher r. redlich fund , the tabasgo foundation , and nsf grant ast-1211916 .",
    "k.n.c . has been supported by a cfa postdoctoral fellowship from the smithsonian astophysical observatory .",
    "this paper made extensive use of the suspect database ( ` http://www.nhn.ou.edu/\\simsuspect/ ` ) .      , m. , grevesse , n. , & sauval , a.  j. 2005 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "336 , cosmic abundances as records of stellar evolution and nucleosynthesis , ed .",
    "t.  g. barnes , iii & f.  n. bash , 25        , e.  b. , nordsieck , k.  h. , kobulnicky , h.  a. , et  al .",
    "2003 , in presented at the society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference , vol . 4841 ,",
    "society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "m.  iye & a.  f.  m.  moorwood , 1463"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the diffuse interstellar bands ( dibs ) are absorption features observed in optical and near - infrared spectra that are thought to be associated with carbon - rich polyatomic molecules in interstellar gas . however , because the central wavelengths of these bands do not correspond with electronic transitions of any known atomic or molecular species , their nature has remained uncertain since their discovery almost a century ago . here </S>",
    "<S> we report on unusually strong dibs in optical spectra of the broad - lined type ic supernova sn2012ap that exhibit changes in equivalent width over short ( @xmath0 days ) timescales . </S>",
    "<S> the 4428  and 6283  dib features get weaker with time , whereas the 5780  feature shows a marginal increase . </S>",
    "<S> these nonuniform changes suggest that the supernova is interacting with a nearby source of the dibs and that the dib carriers possess high ionization potentials , such as small cations or charged fullerenes . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that moderate - resolution spectra of supernovae with dib absorptions obtained within weeks of outburst could reveal unique information about the mass - loss environment of their progenitor systems and provide new constraints on the properties of dib carriers . </S>"
  ]
}