{
  "article_text": [
    "measuring high - precision doppler velocities has been one of the most successful methods for finding substellar companions of main - sequence stars .",
    "the key ingredient in detecting the tiny reflex motion of planet hosting stars has been the stability of the spectrographs , coupled with novel techniques of wavelength calibration , such as using an iodine cell as wavelength reference ( marcy & butler , 1992 ) .",
    "the mandated technique is therefore usually expensive ( in terms of telescope time ) , that lead to two major limits in the allocation of observing time : ( 1 ) spectroscopic confirmation of newly discovered exoplanets faces increasing difficulties to get telescope time , especially for @xmath2 observations .",
    "( 2 ) very limited time is allocated to revisiting of known exoplanet systems ( both transiting and rv planets ) to refine the orbital ephemeris and search for long - period companions .    in this paper ,",
    "we show some of the first results of a novel approach to these issues .",
    "we equipped sub - meter category telescopes with a very cheap , off - the - shelf spectrograph ( @xmath3 resolving power ) , and got to the @xmath1 velocimetric accuracy for stars brighter than @xmath4 .",
    "the resolution is also favorable to test correlations between the radial velocities and line profiles , e.g. bisector span",
    ". this accuracy will be enough to ( 1 ) confirm the planetary nature of massive hot jupiters ; ( 2 ) uncover false transiting candidates , e.g. systems with double stars , m and l dwarfs etc . ;",
    "( 3 ) search for long - period modulations and discover distant massive companions in the systems .",
    "observations were carried out between september 2011 and april 2013 at two locations in hungary : at the gothard astrophysical observatory of etvs university , szombathely ( hereafter gao ) and at the piszkstet mountain station of hungarian academy of sciences ( hereafter po ) .",
    "gao has a newly installed 0.5 m diameter @xmath5 rc telescope for spectroscopic observations .",
    "it has a mofod mkii fork mount built by gemini telescope design .",
    "the telescope axes have a friction drive system with encoder feedback , resulting periodic and guiding error less than 1 during observations .",
    "at po we have used the 1 m rcc telescope .",
    "the spectrograph was the same fiber - fed instrument at both locations , the eshel system of the french shelyak instruments ( thizy & cochard , 2011 ) .",
    "the eshel system consists of three main components .",
    "the fiber injection and guiding unit is attached to the rc focus of the telescope .",
    "the field of view is monitored by a watec 120n+ video camera through a tilted mirror .",
    "there is a @xmath6 diameter hole in the middle of the mirror , where the image of the observed star has to be placed and held during the observation .",
    "the fiber injector module is located behind the hole and injects the light into the @xmath7 core diameter multi - mode acquisition fiber .",
    "the object fiber is connected to the echelle spectrograph unit in a thermally isolated room .",
    "the light from the object fiber is collimated by a 125  mm @xmath8 doublet achromat and projected to an r2 echelle grating .",
    "the grating is used between orders # 29 and # 56 typically .",
    "cross - dispersion is made by a prism , then the echelle spectrum is imaged by a 85  mm focal length @xmath9 telephoto lens , and recorded by a qsi 532ws ccd camera ( kodak kaf1600 ccd chip ) .    the third , separated unit includes the thar calibration lamp and the flat - fielding light source , which is a combination of a tungsten lamp and led sources to cover the whole optical range with smooth and flat continuum light .",
    "the light of the calibration lamps is led to the fiber injection and guiding unit at the telescope through another , @xmath10 core diameter multi - mode fiber . during calibration exposures",
    "an electromagnetically controlled flip - mirror closes the light path from the telescope and projects the calibration light into the object fiber injection unit .",
    "the light sources and the flip - mirror are controlled from the observer computer via serial port interface .",
    "the image acquisition and the calibration unit is controlled with the freeware audela software .",
    "the whole system is surprisingly compact and light and it is easy to carry and install on different telescopes ( see figure  [ fig : instrumentation ] ) .",
    "our copy of the fiber injector unit is optimized for a focal ratio @xmath5 , so a meade series 4000 0.63x focal reducer was used at po on the 1 m @xmath11 rcc telescope .",
    "our data reduction pipeline is based on standard iraf tasks and follows the standard steps of echelle reduction procedure implemented in iraf .",
    "it is almost fully automated , only the identification of thar lines has to be done manually .",
    "the final result of the flow is a series of continuum normalized one dimensional spectra taken at the given night .",
    "the most crucial point of the reduction is the normalization and merging of the echelle orders because of the relatively high noise at their ends caused by blazing .",
    "this step is carried out according to the method given by w. aoki .      for radial velocity measurements we use the iraf rv.fxcor task .",
    "our spectra are cross correlated by templates from the synthetic library by munari et al .",
    "the resolution of these templates is about @xmath12 , almost exactly the same as that of our spectra , therefore this library is ideal for us .",
    "usually we chose the template that has nearly the same effective temperature and metallicity values as the object , but its @xmath13 and @xmath14 values are minimal .",
    "the ccr function is calculated between @xmath15 and @xmath16   , excluding sodium doublet and telluric regions .",
    "the radial velocity and its error is estimated from a parabola fitting to the ccr function around its maximum . for checking the stability of our",
    "mount each night at least one radial velocity standard star is also observed .",
    "estimating the signal to noise ratio of our spectra is not a trivial task because of the many spectral orders and lines .",
    "the snrs were measured in a relatively line - free spectral region between @xmath17    and @xmath18    as the root - mean - square of the deviations from the maximum flux . by good seeing conditions we can reach snr of about 100 for an f9  v star of @xmath19 with 1 min exposure time using the spectrograph on our 0.5 m rc telescope .",
    "the limiting magnitude is about @xmath20 with the 0.5 m telescope and @xmath21 with the 1 m telescope .",
    "to record spectra of such faint stars with still acceptable snr , at least 1 hour of exposure time is needed .",
    "the accuracy of the derived rvs as a function of the snr is shown in figure  [ fig : betavir - snr - verr ] .",
    "it can clearly be seen that snr values higher than 150 give no further significant decrease in the rv error.,scaledwidth=63.0% ]",
    "here we present our results on two hatnet exoplanets , namely hat - p-2b and hat - p-22b .",
    "the second planet is causing a radial velocity amplitude of about @xmath22 , so it is an ideal target for presenting the capabilities of our mount .",
    "the massive hot jupiter hat - p-2b was discovered by bakos et al .",
    "its size is around that of jupiter ( bakos et al .",
    ", 2007 , pl et al . , 2010 ) , implying a density of @xmath23 .",
    "the average density is consistent with an extended h - he atmosphere assuming a very massive core having @xmath24 earth - mass .",
    "the system is unique due to the significant eccentricity of the planet , @xmath25 ( pl et al . , 2010 ) , therefore the transit light curve itself is asymmetric , that allows a photometric detection of the eccentricity .",
    "the insolation reaching the planet s surface varies by a factor of 9 .",
    "bakos et al .",
    "( 2007 ) interpreted the large eccentricity as a likely hint for additional planets in the system .",
    "they also noted that rv curves taken at the keck and lick observatories are slightly inconsistent , and residuals of the rv curve are consistent with large jitter levels or perturbations from a third body .    , which clearly shows the applicability of our technique for detection exoplanets with a relatively small rv amplitude.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]    we have monitored hat - p-2 during a three month long period in spring of 2012 , both from gao and po , and recorded 69 spectra in 20 nights .",
    "our rv values fit very well the model rv curve derived from the photometric observations with an accuracy sometimes clearly better than @xmath0 ( figure  [ hat - p-2 ] ) .",
    "hat - p-22b was discovered by bakos et al .",
    "( 2011 ) around the brighter component of a probable cpm binary , exhibiting an m dwarf companion at 9@xmath26 separation .",
    "hat - p-22b orbits a @xmath27 g5 dwarf with a period of @xmath28 .",
    "the host star has a mass of @xmath29 , radius of @xmath30 , @xmath31 , and metallicity of @xmath32 .",
    "the planet has a mass of @xmath33 , and compact radius of @xmath34 . besides two follow - up observations in 2009 ,",
    "no further light curves were published in the literature .",
    "therefore 20 spectra of hat - p-22 were taken by us during 6 nights also in spring of 2012 . despite the small amplitude caused by the planet",
    ", it could also have been detected just from our radial velocity measurements ( figure  [ hat - p-22 ] ) . based on keck / hires and our data",
    "we have derived a new period of @xmath35 and eccentricity of @xmath36 using the systemic console package ( meschiari et al . , 2009 ; meschiari & laughlin , 2010 ) .",
    "we can conclude that valuable spectroscopic results can be reached using off - the - shelf spectrographs attached to sub - meter telescopes . in good weather conditions and for bright stars",
    "the error of the radial velocities can be decreased down to @xmath37 for a limited time , but for a longer period @xmath38 is much more reliable .",
    "such an accuracy is enough for spectroscopic follow - up measurements of stars hosting hot jupiters , and very good for pulsating and binary / multiple stars .",
    "our mount is also a very useful tool in teaching of spectroscopy , at both bsc and msc levels .",
    "this project has been supported by the hungarian otka grants k83790 and mb08c 81013 , the `` lendlet-2009 '' young researchers program and the jnos bolyai research fellowship of the hungarian academy of sciences , and the city of szombathely under agreement no .",
    "s-11 - 1027 .",
    "bakos , g. . ,",
    "kovcs , g. , torres , g. et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 670 , 826 bakos , g. . ,",
    "hartmann , j. torres , g. et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 742 , 116 marcy , g.w . & butler , r.p .",
    "1992 , pasp , 104 , 270 meschiari , s. , wolf , a.s . ,",
    "rivera , e. et al .",
    "2009 , pasp , 121 , 1016 meschiari , s. , laughlin , g.p .",
    "2010 , apj , 718 , 543 munari , u. , sordo , r. , castelli , f. & zwitter , t.  2005 , a&a , 442 , 1127 pl , a. , bakos , g. .",
    ", torres , g. et al .",
    "2010 , mnras , 401 , 2665 thizy , o. & cochard , f.  2011 , iaus , 272 , 282 wright , j.t . ,",
    "marcy , g.w .",
    ", fischer , d.a .",
    "et al .  2007 ,",
    "apj , 657 , 533 wright , j.t . , fischer , d.a .",
    ", ford , e.b .",
    "2009 , apj , 699 , l97"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> doppler observations of exoplanet systems have been a very expensive technique , mainly due to the high costs of high - resolution stable spectrographs . </S>",
    "<S> recent advances in instrumentation enable affordable doppler planet detections with surprisingly small optical telescopes .    </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the possibility of measuring doppler reflex motion of planet hosting stars with small - aperture telescopes that have traditionally been neglected for this kind of studies . </S>",
    "<S> after thoroughly testing the recently developed and commercially available shelyak eshel echelle spectrograph , we demonstrated that it is routinely possible to achieve velocity precision at the @xmath0 level , reaching down to @xmath1 for the best cases . </S>",
    "<S> we describe our off - the - shelf instrumentation , including a new 0.5 m rc telescope at the gothard astrophysical observatory of lornd etvs university equipped with an intermediate resolution fiber - fed echelle spectrograph .    </S>",
    "<S> we present some follow - up radial velocity measurements of planet hosting stars and point out that updating the orbital solution of doppler - planets is a very important task that can be fulfilled with sub - meter sized optical telescopes without requesting very expensive telescope times on 24  m ( or larger ) class telescopes . </S>"
  ]
}