{
  "article_text": [
    "in the military domain , there are two main applications for a railgun . both make use of the , compared to explosively driven guns , superior muzzle velocity being achievable .",
    "a long range electromagnetic artillery system can cover ranges up to 400 km .",
    "such a system would accelerate a heavy projectile with a mass of up to 60 kg to a muzzle velocity of 2500 m/s @xcite .",
    "alternatively one can use the railgun to accelerate lighter projectiles in rapid succession to bring down approaching missiles in a last line of defense scenario . both scenarios have the common requirement of a large muzzle velocity , but very different demands concerning the needed power levels and the design of the railgun itself .    at the isl",
    ", pegasus is the largest railgun installation .",
    "this railgun has a primary energy storage of 10mj and an overall efficiency of about 30% . with the aim of reaching the desired 2500 m/s",
    ", the maximal total weight of the launch package has to stay below 1 kg . starting from this",
    ", different payload projectiles in the mass range of 600 g to 700 g were developed and tested . in a first series of investigations ,",
    "a monolithic payload projectile was launched with primary energies ranging from 2.6mj to 3.7mj , to velocities of up to 1560 m/s . to make better use of the primary energy and to investigate the innovative concept of a separating projectile , a projectile being split into two parts was designed .",
    "while the armature of the monolithic projectile consists out 4 rows of brushes in the rear half of the projectile , the separating projectile can leave the part of the projectile body with the 3 rearmost brush rows behind . at the same energy level of 3.8mj",
    "the payload reached a velocity of 1825 m/s .",
    "a more detailed description of these experiments can be found in @xcite . here",
    "further modifications of the separating projectile and the experimental results with this type of projectile are described .",
    "the pegasus railgun was built in 1998 with the goal to accelerate projectiles with masses of about 1 kg to velocities above 2000 m/s in the medium caliber range ( 40 mm to 50 mm ) .",
    "initially it was equipped with a glass - fiber and carbon - fiber wound barrel with a caliber of 50 mm @xcite .",
    "figure [ pegasus_1 ] shows the pegasus installation with the currently mounted barrel , being in use since 2002 @xcite .",
    "this barrel is 6 m long and has a square caliber of 40 mm .",
    "a total of up to 10mj of electrical energy can be stored in the 200 capacitor modules being visible in the background of the railgun .",
    "pegasus is a distributed energy supply ( des ) system connected to 13 banks with 16 ( the last one only 8) capacitor modules , each .",
    "banks no.1 and no.2 are connected to the breech , the other banks are connected to current injection points being distributed along the first 3.6 m of the barrel length . for the purpose of the experiments",
    "being performed for this investigation , 4 capacitor modules in the banks no.8 to no.12 are disconnected .",
    "this reduces the capacity of these banks by 25% and the total capacity by 10% .",
    "each capacitor module can store up to 50kj and deliver a maximum current of 50ka .",
    "they are equipped with a high - voltage capacitor , a thyristor , a crowbar diode and a pulse forming coil @xcite .",
    "the electrical connection of the capacitor module to the accelerator is made with a coaxial cable . due to the des scheme",
    "the maximum total current that can be delivered to the gun is approx .",
    "the cylinder on the left hand side of figure [ pegasus_1 ] is a 7 m long catch tank , being equipped with several flash x - ray tubes , doppler radar devices and the possibility to mount several high - speed cameras . at the end of the free - flight phase in the cylinder",
    ", the projectile is stopped using steel plates .",
    "2500 m / s ) standard projectile shot ( from @xcite).,title=\"fig : \" ] +    since several years , projectiles used with the pegasus railgun are made out of glass fiber reinforced plastic ( grp ) equipped with copper - fiber brush armatures .",
    "the grp body of the projectile is lightweight , electrical isolating and relatively easy to manufacture . in combination with the copper brush armature ,",
    "the current is confined to well defined paths through the projectile . in combination with appropriate sensors ,",
    "this allows for the investigation of the current distribution in between different rows of brushes during launch conditions @xcite .",
    "the standard type of projectile , that was used in many investigations with pegasus , consists out of 8 brushes arranged in 4 rows .",
    "the total mass for this type of projectile is approx .",
    "the body of these projectiles is fabricated using industrial pre impregnated e - glass laminate . with these projectiles it was possible to reach velocities of about 2200 m/s , for higher velocities delamination and break - up of the grp was observed @xcite .",
    "one possibility to increase the velocity potential of plastic projectile bodies is to improve the stability against hard acceleration by using innovative materials .",
    "experiments using a body composed out of alternating layers of grp and carbon fiber materials allowed to reach a velocity well above 2500 m/s @xcite . in figure [ t194_1 ] the current and muzzle voltage trace for this shot is shown .",
    "the des system of pegasus allows to generate a rather flat current pulse . here",
    ", the current driving the projectile is just below 1.1ma .",
    "the muzzle voltage trace shows that excellent sliding conditions exists until approx . 2ms . at that time the voltage increases rapidly , indicating the onset of transition . the peaks in the muzzle voltage signal , clearly seen in the raising part of the graph ( between 2ms and 3.5ms ) ,",
    "are explained by inductive effects connected to the current injection locations of the des system of the launcher @xcite .",
    "usually in experiment with pegasus , the plasma after transition appears in between one rail and the armature , only , while the other side of the projectile is pressed heavily against the opposite rail .",
    "as long as the plasma is connected to the brushes and confined in the small space between projectile surface and rails , there is still a well defined current path and the clear pattern of inductive peaks as seen in the figure is visible . underlying the peaks , there is a nearly linear rise of the muzzle voltage .",
    "this effect can be explained by an increase in resistance seen by the current flowing through the plasma and the copper brushes .",
    "contributing to this resistance is the increase of the resistivity of the copper brushes due to the increase of the temperature and possibly a dilution effect of the plasma due to the rapid movement of the projectile .",
    "in figure [ pegasus_payload_projectiles ] two different types of payload projectiles are shown .",
    "the projectile on the left hand side has a monolithic design , with a total mass of about 625 g .",
    "the rear half of the 140 mm long projectile is identical to the standard projectile and carries 8 copper brushes in 4 rows .",
    "the forward part is equipped with 8 copper cylinders as payload . to reach higher velocities at the same electrical energy distributed to the launcher , the separating projectile seen on the right of figure [ pegasus_payload_projectiles ]",
    "was introduced . the basic idea behind",
    "this type of projectile is , that during the acceleration the brushes are eroded row - wise from the rear to the front .",
    "once the 3 rearmost brushes lost electrical contact to the rails , this part is left behind and only the payload section continues to be accelerated .",
    "the total mass and the dimensions for this projectile are the same as for the monolithic design .",
    "the forward payload part with the 2 booster brushes weighs approx .",
    "400 g . in @xcite experiments with the monolithic projectile are described .",
    "a muzzle velocity of 1560 m/s was reached using 3.8mj of electrical energy . accelerating a separating projectile using the same electrical energy resulted in a velocity of the payload section of 1825 m/s , an increase of 16% compared to the monolithic projectile design .",
    "after the introduction of the separating projectile , several experiments with pegasus were performed , to investigate the behavior of this type of projectile .",
    "the primary electrical energy was increased from 3.8mj to 4.8mj and the brush diameter of the two booster brushes was changed from 8 mm to finally 10 mm .",
    "the key parameters for the shot series are itemized in table [ shots_separating ] .",
    ".parameters of the shots performed with the separating projectile . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in table [ shots_separating ] , 2 shots are listed with a primary energy of 4.8mj .",
    "the difference between these 2 shots is the diameter of the brush .",
    "while the first shot ( no.184 ) had a brush diameter of 9 mm , shot no.185 had this value increased to 10 mm .",
    "the kinetic energy of the payload part ( approx .",
    "400 g ) was 663kj and 942kj , respectively .",
    "shot no.185 has a payload part kinetic energy that is 279kj larger . in figure",
    "[ power ] the power acting on the rail - armature - rail interface is drawn . to suppress short time fluctuations as seen , for example , in the muzzle voltage trace ,",
    "the curve was smoothed .",
    "until 2.5ms , the onset of transition for shot no.184 , both curves are identical .",
    "the electrical power converted to heat during the acceleration at the rail - armature - rail contact element is very low , basically all the available electrical power at the rails is converted into acceleration of the projectile . after transition",
    "the heating power reaches values of up to 830mw for shot no.184 and 660mw for shot no.185 . integrating the power over time , results in the amount of energy that is converted into heat .",
    "this is 1.49mj and 1.19mj for shot no.184 and shot no.185 , respectively .",
    "the difference is 300kj , very close to the 279kj difference in kinetic energy .",
    "this means that the additional available energy in shot no.185 was converted to 90% into kinetic energy of the payload part of the projectile .",
    "during an investigation spanning over several years , different payload projectile types were designed and tested . in an earlier report @xcite the experiments with an monolithic projectile and the development path to the separating projectile",
    "was described . here",
    "experiments with a separating projectile type were presented .",
    "a series of 5 shots was made and for each shot the parameters , current , muzzle voltage , velocity and action integral were recorded .",
    "an inspection of the muzzle voltage traces of these shots revealed a very different behavior as compared to the muzzle voltage of the standard projectile with the same number of copper brushes .",
    "if the contact of the brushes to the rails is not disturbed by strong erosion or loss of brushes , the voltage raises after transition quickly to a plateau , while for the standard projectile , the voltage continues to increase . for shot no.183",
    "an enlarging of the shot - out muzzle voltage peak showed that the payload copper cylinders do take part in the sharing of the current .",
    "in addition to this , traces of molten copper smoke from the heat developed by current conduction and mechanical friction can be identified in some of the free - flight x - ray pictures , pointing to the same conclusion . as the energy was increased",
    ", it was necessary to enlarge the brush diameter from 8 mm to 10 mm .",
    "this indicates that there is a positive effect of a larger armature mass being available .",
    "one clear problem at the current pegasus railgun for experiments with velocities above 2000 m/s is the delamination of the grp projectile body seen in the x - ray photographs in the region where the payload is mounted and the inability of the grp to adequately support the pushing booster brushes . as a consequence of this ,",
    "the next design of the payload projectile will make usage of mechanically tougher materials .",
    "the currently preferred candidate material is aluminum .",
    "the authors would like to thank for the professional support from the people in the workshop and from those working with the experiments in the experimental hall .",
    "this research was supported by the french and german ministries of defense .",
    "i.r.mcnab , s.fish , f.stefani , _ parameters for an electromagnetic naval railgun _ , ieee transactions on magnetics , vol.37 , no.1 , jan . 2001 .",
    "s.hundertmark , m.schneider , g.vincent , _ payload acceleration using a 10-mj des railgun _ , ieee transactions on plasma science , vol.41 , no.5 , may 2013 .",
    "p.  lehmann , h.  peter , j.  wey , _ first experimental results with the isl 10 mj des railgun pegasus _",
    ", ieee transactions on magnetics , vol.37 , no.1 , jan . 2001 .",
    "p.lehmann , _ overview of the electric launch activities at the french - german research institute of saint - louis ( isl ) _ , ieee transactions on magnetics , vol.39 , no.1 , jan .",
    "e.  spahn , g.  buderer , _ a flexible pulse power supply for em- and etc - launchers _ ,",
    "12th ieee international pulsed power conference , 1999 .",
    "digest of technical papers .",
    "vol.2 , 1999 .",
    "o.liebfried , m.schneider , s.balevicius , _ current distribution and contact mechanisms in static railgun experiments with brush armatures _ , ieee transactions on plasma science , vol.39 , no.1 , jan",
    "m.schneider , r.schneider , _ measurement of the current distribution between multiple brush armatures during launch _ , ieee transactions on magnetics , vol.45 , no.1 , jan .",
    "c.avril , d.perreux , f.thiebaud , b.reck , s.hundertmark , _ development of advanced thermoplastic composite projectiles for high - velocity shots with the pegasus railgun _ , ieee transactions on plasma science , vol.39 , no.12 , 2011 .",
    "b.reck , p.lehmann , e.spahn , w.wenning , m.d.vo , _ a model for predicting transition in railgun fiber brush armatures _ , ieee transactions on magnetics , vol.45 , no.1 , jan",
    "b.reck , _ mechanical behavior of the pegasus railgun projectile during the launch _ , ieee transactions on magnetics , vol.41 , no.1 , jan ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the french - german research institute ( isl ) has several railguns installed , the largest of these is the pegasus accelerator . </S>",
    "<S> it is a 6 m long , 4x4@xmath0 caliber distributed energy supply ( des ) railgun . </S>",
    "<S> it has a 10mj capacitor bank as energy supply attached to it . in the past , this installation was used to accelerate projectiles with a mass of about 300 g to velocities up to 2500 m/s . in the ongoing investigation , it is attempted to accelerate heavier projectiles to velocities above 2000 m/s . for this a new type of projectile including </S>",
    "<S> a payload section was developed . in this paper the results of the experiments with payload projectiles using a primary energy between 3.8mj and 4.8mj are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}