{
  "article_text": [
    "the mechanisms driving the shutdown of star - forming galaxies ( sfgs ) , quenching , remains one of the least understood puzzles in galaxy formation to date . in the low - redshift universe ,",
    "galaxies show a bimodal color distribution , accompanied by a bimodality of morphologies ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "spiral galaxies have low bulge - to - disk ratios and are commonly the site of active star formation leading to blue colors .",
    "passive galaxies are observed to be mostly spheroid - dominated .",
    "the color bimodality has also been observed at higher redshifts ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these observations have been interpreted as evolutionary paths , in which one or several quenching processes cause the sfg to become red and passive on a short timescale ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "studies of the shape of the mass function of passive galaxies over cosmic time using large surveys such as sdss , nmbs , zcosmos , ultravista and zfourge showed that the probability for a galaxy being quenched increases with its mass ( peng et al .",
    "2010 ; brammer et al .",
    "2011 ; ilbert et al . 2013 ; muzzin et al . 2013",
    "; woo et al .",
    "2013 ; tomczak et al . 2014 ) .",
    "further evidence for quenching also comes from studies employing abundance matching techniques , where the cumulative abundance of galaxies is matched to that of haloes using the results of cosmological dark matter simulations alongside with observational constraints on the stellar mass function .",
    "those infer low baryon fractions within dark matter haloes , hinting at an efficient quenching mechanism associated with significant gas mass loss for both low and high mass galaxies @xcite .",
    "several quenching mechanisms have been proposed , which act to either remove the gas from the galaxy or prevent the existing / inflowing gas within the galaxy to form stars . for the high - mass regime of galaxies ,",
    "powerful agn feedback , which may be induced by galaxy mergers ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) or internal evolutionary processes triggered by ( violent ) gravitational disk instabilities ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , may drive energetic outflows expelling gas out of the galaxy and heating the halo .",
    "in addition , a so - called radio - mode feedback may suppress the cooling of gas onto the galaxy over a longer timespan ( croton et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "moreover , morphological quenching , proposed by @xcite may switch off or reduce the efficiency of star formation in galaxies through the existence of a dominant bulge which stabilizes the gas disk against gravitational instabilities ( see saintonge et al .",
    "2012 and crocker et al .",
    "2012 for observational hints in the local universe , and genzel et al .",
    "2014 for galaxies at high redshift ) .",
    "another process proposed to be responsible for the shut - down of galaxies is halo mass quenching ( e.g. , birnboim & dekel 2003 ; kere et al .",
    "2005 ) . in this scenario ,",
    "dark matter haloes exceeding a critical mass of @xmath5 are able to stop the flow of incoming cold gas onto their central galaxies via virial shock heating , which leads to a decrease of star formation and/or suppresses star formation over longer timescales . however , at @xmath6 ( with @xmath7 ) , gas is predicted to penetrate to the central galaxy through cold streams even in massive haloes ( e.g. , dekel et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "the above quenching mechanisms could plausibly leave an imprint on the structure of galaxies , as they may lead to high central concentrations due to internal processes and/or major mergers .",
    "this idea triggered a plethora of studies investigating the relation between star formation activity ( or absence thereof ) and galaxy structure .",
    "local galaxy surveys demonstrated that quiescence is strongly linked with structural and morphological parameters such as the  index , stellar mass density and the central velocity dispersion @xcite .",
    "this suggests that a high stellar mass surface density in the center of a galaxy is connected to its quenching .",
    "recently , high - resolution imaging facilities onboard the hubble space telescope ( hst ) , including critically the nir wide - field camera 3 ( wfc3 ) , have allowed us to trace the relation between structure and stellar populations further back in cosmic time .",
    "early studies on the basis of high - resolution hst - imaging found a correlation between color and bulge fraction for large samples of galaxies at @xmath8 ( bell et al .",
    "2004 ; weiner et al . 2005",
    "; koo et al . 2005 ) .",
    "particularly the cosmic assembly near - infrared deep extragalactic legacy survey ( candels , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) has played a pivotal role due to its unique combination of multi - wavelength high - resolution imaging , large sample size , and depth .",
    "a common theme of several of the early candels studies is that a correlation between galaxy structure and stellar populations ( a ` hubble sequence ' ) has already been in place since at least @xmath9 ( wuyts et al . 2011 ; bell et al .",
    "2012 ; wang et al .",
    "2012 ; lee et al .",
    "2013 ; see also cheung et al .",
    ". additionally , bruce et al .",
    "( 2012 ) show that the majority of star - forming galaxies have disk - dominated light profiles and passive galaxies have bulge - dominated profiles directly from decomposed bulge+disk light - profile fitting of @xmath10 galaxies at @xmath11 .",
    "however , it should be noted that they also find a significant fraction ( @xmath12 ) of passive disk - dominated galaxies and star - forming bulge - dominated systems in this high - mass regime .",
    "these results have set on a firmer footing the pioneering studies by @xcite and @xcite , that used ground - based data and significantly smaller samples , respectively . at all epochs since at least @xmath9 , sfgs follow a relatively tight relation of @xmath13 dex scatter between their ongoing star formation rate ( sfr ) and assembled stellar mass , with a zero point that increases with lookback time .",
    "this relation has been dubbed the main sequence ( ms ) of star - forming galaxies ( noeske et al .",
    "2007 ; elbaz et al . 2007 ; daddi et al . 2007 ; rodighiero et al . 2011 ) .",
    "typical sfgs that lie on the ms are best approximated by exponential disk profiles , while the quiescent galaxy population below the ms is better described with higher  indices @xcite . in common to all of the above studies",
    ", however , is that they were carried out on monochromatic ( albeit mostly rest - optical ) imaging , furthermore often exploiting only a subset of the entire candels data set .",
    "if a galaxy component ( e.g. , disk ) forms significantly more stars than another component ( e.g. , bulge ) , their relative weight in light can differ significantly from their contributions in physically more relevant units of stellar mass .",
    "deep panchromatic high - resolution imaging datasets enable us to go beyond measurements of light profiles , by reconstructing the distribution of stellar mass ( see , e.g. , zibetti et al .",
    "2009 for a detailed application to nearby galaxies ) .",
    "while pioneering work on pre - existing high - z datasets using the nicmos camera onboard hst was limited to small sample sizes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , @xcite made use of resolved 7-band stellar - population synthesis modeling on a pixel - by - pixel basis of over 600 massive ( @xmath14 ) sfgs at @xmath15 and found that galaxies are overall smoother and more centrally concentrated in mass than they appear in light",
    ". caused by a combination of internal extinction and star formation history variations , the presence of mass - to - light ratio variations within galaxies emphasizes the importance of making measurements on mass maps when characterizing the stellar structure of high- redshift galaxies .",
    "guo et al .",
    "( 2011 ) furthermore demonstrated that also quiescent galaxies at high redshift feature color ( and hence mass - to - light ratio ) gradients .    in order to further shed light on the connection between galaxy structure and quenching , we reconstruct stellar mass maps of a large mass - selected sample ( @xmath16 ) of galaxies at @xmath15 and subject those to a detailed structural analysis . for this purpose",
    ", we exploit the available multi - wavelength data in all 5 candels/3d - hst fields with accurate redshifts from the 3d - hst survey @xcite .",
    "we do nt restrict the structural measurements to one - component ( ) fits , but rather also explore two - component ( bulge + disk ) decompositions .",
    "the latter allows us to carry out a more direct comparison to semi - analytic models ( sams ; specifically those by somerville et al .",
    "2008 , 2012 , further developed by porter et al .",
    "2014 ) , whose prescriptions are formulated in units of disk and bulge components .",
    "the paper is structured as follows . in section  [ obs_sample.sec ] , we give an overview of the observations and sample .",
    "the construction of stellar mass maps through resolved stellar population modeling , and the methodology to derive structural parameters , is described in section  [ method.sec ] .",
    "we present our observational results in section  [ structure.sec ] , followed by a comparison with sams in section  [ sam_results.sec ] . finally , we summarize and discuss the implications of our findings in section  [ discussion.sec ] .    throughout this paper",
    ", we quote magnitudes in the ab system , assume a chabrier ( 2003 ) initial mass function ( imf ) , and adopt the cosmological parameters @xmath17 .",
    "the core dataset used for this work is the deep space - based hst imaging from the candels multi - cycle treasury program @xcite , complemented with redshift information from the 3d - hst grism survey ( van dokkum et al .",
    "2011 ; brammer et al .",
    "2012 ) .    in order to determine galaxy - integrated masses and sfrs , we make use of additional multi - wavelength data in the candels/3d - hst fields including space - based photometry from _",
    "spitzer_/irac , _ spitzer_/mips and _ herschel_/pacs and an array of ground - based facilities ( see skelton et al .",
    "2014 for a detailed description of the @xmath2-selected multi - wavelength catalogs produced by the 3d - hst team ) .",
    "the galaxy - integrated properties are derived following identical procedures as @xcite .",
    "these include stellar masses , based on @xmath18- to - @xmath19 broad - band sed modeling using population synthesis models from @xcite and sfrs derived from a ` ladder of sfr indicators ' .",
    "the latter method uses detected emission in either uv + pacs for pacs - detected galaxies ( lutz et al . 2011 ; magnelli et al .",
    "2013 ) or uv + mips 24@xmath20 for mips - detected galaxies to compute the sum of the obscured and unobscured sfr . for galaxies lacking an ir detection , the sfr is adopted from the best - fit sed model .",
    "we verified that consistent results are obtained when splitting star - forming and quiescent galaxies based on the above measures of star formation activity or when adopting the rest - uvj diagram ( wuyts et al .",
    "2007 ; williams et al .",
    "2009 )      the hst candels observations used for this study comprise high - resolution imaging in five distinct fields : goods - south , goods - north , cosmos , uds , and egs , covering a total area of 625 arcmin@xmath21 .",
    "typical limiting depths in 160 are 27.0 mag for candels / wide and 27.7 mag for candels / deep ( the central halves of the goods fields ) , respectively .",
    "additional data used for this work include pre - existing acs imaging in the goods , egs , and cosmos fields ( giavalisco et al .",
    "2004 ; davis et al . 2007 ;",
    "koekemoer et al .",
    "2007 ) , plus wfc3 imaging in ers @xcite .",
    "the available passbands are @xmath22,@xmath23,@xmath24,@xmath25,@xmath26,@xmath27 for the goods fields and @xmath23,@xmath28,@xmath26,@xmath27 for the remaining fields . additionally , @xmath29 imaging was available for ers as part of goods - south and @xmath30 for the regions with candels / deep coverage .",
    "all imaging used in our analysis was drizzled to a @xmath31 pixel scale . for details on the observations and data reduction",
    ", we refer the reader to @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the main focus of this paper is on the structural shape of stellar mass distributions in a mass - selected sample of galaxies in the redshift range @xmath32 . for this purpose",
    ", we only apply a mass cut @xmath14 to select our galaxies , well above the mass completeness limit of the @xmath27-selected catalogs for all five fields .",
    "our sample consequently spans a wide range of sfrs , from normal sfgs on the main sequence to quiescent galaxies ( qgs ) below , that already formed the bulk of their stars . for selection",
    ", we use the sed modeled galaxy - integrated mass estimates , but note that they match well the masses obtained by summing the resolved stellar mass distributions ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    in order to determine redshifts for the galaxies in our sample ,",
    "we use ground - based spectroscopic redshift information whenever available .",
    "otherwise , redshifts are fitted to the combination of 3d - hst grism data and broad - band photometry .",
    "the total sample comprises 6764 galaxies , of which 3839 and 2925 lie within the redshift range @xmath33 and @xmath34 , respectively . in the following ,",
    "these two redshift ranges are referred to as @xmath35 and @xmath36 , respectively .",
    "a detailed description of the resolved sed modeling can be found in @xcite . here , we review only the key steps involved and additional processing steps .",
    "first , all images in the available wavelength bands are brought to the wfc3 160 resolution ( @xmath37 ) by using the iraf psfmatch algorithm .",
    "next , a voronoi - binning scheme from @xcite is applied in order to ensure a minimum s / n level of 10 for each bin in the corresponding @xmath2-band image .",
    "the binned multi - wavelength images are then fit with stellar population synthesis models from @xcite , assuming a chabrier ( 2003 ) imf , a uniform solar metallicity , and a calzetti et al .",
    "( 2000 ) reddening law with visual extinctions in the range @xmath38 .",
    "the adopted sfhs are exponentially declining , allowing for e - folding timescales down to 300 myr .",
    "this choice is simplistic and may not be representative of the real sfhs ( e.g. , for sfgs see maraston et al .",
    "however , we are here interested in the stellar mass , which , among sed - derived properties , is most robust against variations ( and uncertainties ) in model assumptions ( e.g. , papovich et al . 2001 ; shapley et al . 2005 ; maraston et al .",
    "2010 ) .    in order to conduct further structural analysis using the ( binned ) output of this sed modeling technique , we constructed pixelized ( instead of voronoi binned ) images of the stellar mass surface density distribution in the following way .",
    "first , we construct a @xmath39 map which , within the galaxy s @xmath27 segmentation map , has uniform values for pixels belonging to the same voronoi bins .",
    "pixels outside the segmentation map ( i.e. , containing sky noise and possibly faint wings of the galaxy extending below the signal - to - noise threshold ) are assigned the average @xmath39 of the nearest three voronoi bins .",
    "the resulting expanded @xmath39 map is then combined with the 160 image to construct a final mass map at full @xmath27 resolution .",
    "this ensures a smooth transition of the galaxy s mass profile from the brighter central parts to the faintest regions .      in order to conduct a structural analysis of our galaxy sample ,",
    "we employ the galfit ( peng et al .",
    "2010 ) morphology fitting code to fit 2-dimensional parametric models to the stellar mass distribution . for comparison purposes , we model the 2d @xmath27 surface brightness distributions as well , following identical procedures .",
    "the models we use comprise on the one hand single  models to parametrize the galaxy s shape with the effective radius ( @xmath40 ) and  index @xmath41 .",
    "@xmath40 is the galactocentric distance containing half of the total light / mass , and @xmath41 is a measure of the cuspiness of the overall light / mass profile .",
    "we allow @xmath41 to vary within the range @xmath42 .    while the  index @xmath41 is often used and indeed serves as an approximate measure of the contribution of the bulge , it is important to note that @xmath41 does not translate one to one to the bulge - to - total ratio @xmath3 ( see appendix a ; also andredakis et al .",
    "1995 ; de jong et al . 2004",
    "; cibinel et al . 2013 ; bruce et al .",
    "2012 , bruce et al .",
    "2014 in prep . ) . for a given bulge + disk composite profile ,",
    "the best - fit  index can be increased both by increasing its @xmath3 , and by leaving @xmath3 constant while growing the extent of the disk relative to that of the bulge ( i.e. , lowering @xmath43 ) .",
    "for this reason , and to facilitate a more direct comparison to ( semi - analytic ) models that are parametrized in terms of bulge and disk units , we furthermore decompose the galaxies by fitting 2-component ( bulge + disk ) models .",
    "in addition , we also performed one - component pure disk and pure bulge fits by forcing @xmath44 and @xmath45 , respectively .",
    "for the bulge - to - disk decomposition , we adopt a procedure similar to that implemented in bruce et al .",
    "( 2012 ) for the bulge+disk decomposition of @xmath27 light profiles , where we fixed the  indices to @xmath44 for the disk and to @xmath45 for the bulge .",
    "for the bulge component to address the impact on the derived @xmath3 values .",
    "we find a median difference of @xmath46 for quiescent galaxies and @xmath47 for sfgs , with the errors marking the 1@xmath48 scatter .",
    "any systematic trends are small , and our results are therefore robust against the precise value of @xmath49 adopted . ]",
    "the centers are left free , but we restrict the relative distance between the bulge and disk centers to be less than 2 pixels . all other parameters defining the two components ( @xmath50 , the axial ratio @xmath51 , and the total magnitude / mass of both components ) are allowed to vary independently .    in 2-component modeling , the higher number of degrees of freedom increases the odds of the fit being trapped in a local  minimum . in order to mitigate this risk , we ran galfit using a grid of initial starting values .",
    "our grid was constructed by using a range of size ratios between bulge and disk ( @xmath43 ) ranging from 0.1 to 1 , in steps of 0.1 . for each initial guess of @xmath43 , the corresponding initial",
    "guess on @xmath3 was then set such that the  index matching this initial configuration matches the one measured in the single - component fit ( see appendix a ) .",
    "likewise , the initial magnitudes and absolute values of the initial size guesses for bulge and disk were set such that the total magnitude and half - light / mass radius of the composite profile matches the respective values determined from  fitting .    in cases",
    "where galfit yields solutions with implausibly small bulge sizes ( @xmath52 pixel , corresponding to @xmath53 of the resolution , or @xmath54 50 pc at @xmath55 ) and flags the outcome as potentially not converged and unphysical , we excluded the respective run from the grid . also , solutions yielding a disk smaller in size than the bulge ( i.e. , @xmath56 ) were not included . galaxies . ]    after performing the fits for each point of the grid with initial guesses , we assigned a final @xmath3 ratio for each object as the solution of the fit with the lowest @xmath57 . here , the pure disk and pure bulge fits were also included .",
    "their solutions generally show higher @xmath57 than the 2-component fits , but are occasionally preferred over those in a @xmath57 sense ( oftentimes , these are bulgeless systems with @xmath58 ) .",
    "the two - component decompositions are statistically preferred over the single  models ( as based on both their @xmath57 values and the akaike information criterion , aic , where @xmath59 is the number of free parameters in the fit and @xmath60 is the number of data points used in the fit . ] ) for @xmath61 of the total sample . those systems",
    "for which the single  model yields a lower value of @xmath57 and aic typically feature shallow profiles with @xmath58 .    in both single- and two - component fitting , we use an automated scheme which pre - determines neighboring sources that need to be masked or fitted simultaneously , and passes initial guesses of fitting parameters to galfit .",
    "those include estimates on size , total magnitude and center .",
    "the initial guess on size is based on the distance from the center to the radius at which the curve of growth reaches 50% of the galaxy s total flux .",
    "the mass - weighted center of the galaxy derived within its segmentation map is adopted as initial estimate for the center .",
    "galfit takes into account the convolution of the model with the point - spread - function ( psf ) . both for fitting light and mass",
    ", we use a psf which is a combination of stacked stars and a tiny - tim @xcite model psf . for a more detailed description of the used psf , see @xcite .",
    "we emphasize that throughout this paper our working definition adopted for bulge and disk components is based on the above bulge+disk modeling of stellar mass or light maps , as empirical constraints on whether or not stars assigned to a bulge / disk component are dynamically hot / cold are currently lacking . as the sins survey of @xmath55 galaxy kinematics demonstrated that high - redshift sfgs are dynamically ( frster schreiber et al .",
    "2009 ) and morphologically ( frster schreiber et al . 2011 ) distinct from local spiral galaxies , we caution that bulge fractions as derived by our decompositions may have a somewhat different meaning than they would have in the local universe .",
    "in addition , we estimated a typical measurement uncertainty on @xmath3 by setting up an array of model galaxies with a range of mass , size , @xmath3 ratio , and @xmath43 , which is similar to our data .",
    "the grid of model galaxies consisted of 5 , 3 , 11 , and 10 grid points in mass , @xmath40 , @xmath3 and @xmath43 respectively .",
    "these were then inserted in multiple empty sky regions of the candels uds field to mimic the typical background noise .",
    "we next ran galfit on all 8250 mock galaxies using our 2-component fitting scheme .",
    "the measurement error on @xmath3 of each galaxy in our sample given its mass , radius , and profile shape is then finally assigned as the scatter among the recovered @xmath3 ratios of the corresponding model galaxy .    typical measurement errors in @xmath3 for star - forming and quiescent galaxies are on average @xmath62 and @xmath63 at @xmath64 and @xmath65 and @xmath66 at @xmath67 , respectively .",
    "the distribution of errors peaks below the median ( @xmath68 ) , and shows a tail towards higher @xmath3 errors .",
    "two alternative methods to estimate the uncertainty in @xmath3 , namely the formal random uncertainty reported by galfit and re - fitting the observed galaxies after applying additional background and poisson noise , generally lead to lower estimated uncertainties ( by a factor of @xmath69 in the case of galfit ) . in the remainder of the paper",
    ", we therefore adopt the most conservative error estimates inferred from our analysis of the inserted mock galaxies .",
    "exploiting the bulge - disk decompositions of the stellar mass maps derived for our sample of massive galaxies , we first evaluate the average mass budget of disks and bulges .",
    "let us consider picking a random star out of our sample of massive galaxies above @xmath0 . at @xmath70 ,",
    "the probability that this star belongs to a bulge component is @xmath71 . increasing the mass limit to @xmath72 or 11 yields a higher probability for the star to be associated to the bulge , of @xmath73 and @xmath74 , respectively .",
    "perhaps somewhat surprisingly , the fraction of stars residing in a bulge component rises only slightly to @xmath75 , to @xmath76 , @xmath77 , and @xmath78 for galaxies more massive than @xmath79 , 10.5 , and 11 respectively .",
    "the formal uncertainties to the above stated probabilities including sample variance and typical measurement errors on @xmath3 are limited to a few percent .",
    "the total error budget is likely dominated by systematics , for example related to the assumptions made in stellar population modeling ( see section 3.1 ) .",
    "we note , however , that only @xmath39 uncertainties with a differential impact on bulges and disks will affect the above numbers .",
    "even if the @xmath39 ratio of bulges were systematically under- or overestimated by 0.2 ( 0.3 ) dex with respect to those of disks , the change in the above numbers would be limited to @xmath80 .    as bulges ,",
    "unlike stellar disks , can be considered sinks in the continuous assembly of a galaxy s stellar component , the rising mass density of stars in bulges ( by a factor of @xmath81 from the higher to the lower redshift bin ) therefore seems to be compensated largely by the continuing assembly of new disks . splitting our sample in finer redshift bins ,",
    "we do find the fraction of stellar mass in bulges to increase more significantly , by a factor @xmath82 over the entire 6 gyr timespan sampled by our study .",
    "overall , the bulge mass fractions are higher than what would be inferred from fits to the @xmath2-band surface brightness profiles , as the median mass - to - light ratio of disk components is 0.2 dex lower than of bulge components .",
    "the above numbers address the evolving mass budget of disks and bulges for a mass - limited sample including both star - forming and quiescent galaxies . in the remainder of the paper",
    ", we will delve into more depth by breaking down our sample by star formation activity .          in recent years",
    ", several hst - based studies have investigated the structural differences between star - forming and quiescent galaxies at high redshift . in common to all of these analyses ,",
    "star - forming systems are found to have significantly larger rest - optical sizes than their quiescent counterparts at the same mass and redshift ( e.g. , toft et al . 2009 ; van der wel et al .",
    "in addition , their surface brightness profile shapes tend to be shallow ( @xmath83 ) , while quiescent galaxies feature cuspier light profiles ( e.g. , wuyts et al . 2011 ; bell et al .",
    "2012 ; cheung et al .",
    "2012 , although see also bruce et al .",
    "2012 for decomposed light profiles at high stellar masses and redshifts ) .",
    "at the same time , the same multi - wavelength high - resolution lookback surveys have also established that substantial mass - to - light ratio variations in the rest - optical can occur , not only between but also within galaxies ( see , e.g. , wuyts et al .",
    "2012 ; guo et al .",
    "2012 ; boada et al . in prep ) .",
    "typically , as new stars tend to form from gas settled in a disk configuration , such @xmath39 ratio variations are anticipated to give rise to a composite light profile in which the disk component has a relatively larger weight ( per unit mass ) than the bulge .",
    "it is therefore important to address to which degree the above structural distinction between the two classes of galaxies is intrinsic to their distribution of stellar mass , or , conversely , can be attributed to stellar population effects .",
    "the answer to this question is of immediate relevance to our understanding of quenching , as in principle the latter scenario could imply that compact quiescent systems can evolve from the star - forming main sequence by simple fading , without invoking an associated morphological transition .",
    "kriek et al .",
    "( 2009 ) investigate this scenario for a spectroscopically confirmed sample of massive @xmath36 galaxies , finding that 3 out of 6 massive star - forming systems have dense cores , and thus may passively evolve into compact galaxies due to fading of the outer star - forming regions .",
    "szomoru et al .",
    "( 2010 ) , on the other hand , exploit the exquisite depth of the hubble ultra deep field to probe the surface brightness profile of a massive compact quiescent galaxy at @xmath84 , ruling out the existence of a faint extended envelope or disk around the observed galaxy .",
    "another argument against fading comes from cheung et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , who derived the stellar masses of bulges for both star - forming and quiescent galaxies at @xmath85 .",
    "they found that bulges of sfgs are half as massive as those of similar - mass quiescent galaxies , implying they can not simply fade onto the red sequence without structural evolution .    using the stellar mass maps reconstructed for our mass - selected sample of 6764 galaxies at @xmath15 with @xmath86 , we are now able to draw statistically significant conclusions on the structural distinction between high - z galaxies prior to and after quenching . in figure",
    "[ struc.fig ] , we compare the shape of the stellar mass distributions ( i.e. , corrected for spatial @xmath39 variations ) of star - forming and quiescent galaxies , and study their dependence on the total galaxy stellar mass .",
    "we consider profile parameters based on single - component ( i.e. , ) fits as well as two - component ( bulge + disk ) decompositions , and show the results for two separate redshift intervals : @xmath87 and @xmath88 . in both cases",
    ", we identified a galaxy as quiescent if its specific sfr ( ssfr ) satisfied @xmath89 , where @xmath90 is the hubble time at the redshift of the galaxy , and as star - forming otherwise .",
    "we tested that a definition of quiescence based on the location of a galaxy in the uvj diagnostic diagram ( wuyts et al .",
    "2007 ; williams et al . 2009 ) yields effectively identical results .",
    "figure  [ struc.fig ] immediately highlights that the distinct structural appearance of star - forming and quiescent galaxies is intrinsic to its internal distribution of stellar mass , and not just driven by stellar population or obscuration effects .",
    "in fact , a comparison to the equivalent plots based on @xmath2-band surface brightness profiles rather than mass maps ( see appendix b ) indicates that stellar population effects ( when measuring at rest - optical wavelengths ) only induce a modest , albeit non - negligible shift . at all masses ,",
    "quiescent galaxies feature cuspier stellar mass distributions ( i.e. , higher @xmath41 ) than star - forming systems .",
    "their typical best - fit  index is furthermore an increasing function of galaxy mass . interestingly ,",
    "also among sfgs the profile shape is not independent of stellar mass .",
    "an increase in @xmath41 is apparent above @xmath4 , both at @xmath35 and at @xmath36 .",
    "a similar trend of increasing cuspiness at the tip of the ms was noted by wuyts et al .",
    "( 2011 , figure 1 ; see also nelson et al . in prep ) .",
    "next , it is worthwhile reflecting on what it is that we measure when fitting  profiles .",
    "appendix a illustrates that , when considering galaxies as superpositions of bulge and disk components , a given best - fit  index does not necessarily correspond one - to - one to a unique @xmath3 value , even though it is often interpreted as such . given a bulge+disk system with associated best - fit @xmath41",
    ", one can increase its @xmath41 either by boosting @xmath3 , or , alternatively , by growing the extent of the disk with respect to that of the bulge without any change to @xmath3 .",
    "turning to the right - hand panel of figure  [ struc.fig ] , we now explore the @xmath3 ratio as a function of galaxy mass , for sfgs and quiescent galaxies separately .",
    "again , we find a clear anti - correlation between star formation activity and bulge prominence .",
    "focussing on the star - forming population , the median @xmath3 is limited to below 30% for intermediate mass sfgs ( @xmath91 ) , while typical bulge mass fractions rise to 40 - 50% above @xmath4 .",
    "we note that there is a significant scatter in the distribution of individual @xmath3 values around the median for both quiescent and star - forming galaxies .",
    "we investigated the variation in median trends when varying the binning intervals , finding negligible changes at lower masses , while the median @xmath3 of the most massive ( @xmath92 ) sfg bin changes by @xmath93 , depending on the applied binning intervals is such that the most massive bin still contains more than 10 galaxies , allowing a robust estimation of the median . ] .",
    "we note that measurements on the @xmath2-band yield bulge mass fractions among sfgs that are lower by on average @xmath94 , as can be understood from a disk component composed of a younger , lower @xmath39 stellar population than the bulge .        from the two - component fits ,",
    "we infer a typical @xmath43 size ratio of @xmath95 , albeit with significant scatter ( see figure  [ n_bd.fig ] ) .",
    "the median size ratio shows little dependence on star formation activity or mass , over the range probed by our sample .",
    "given the enhanced @xmath3 values in quiescent galaxies , and the fact that bulges have smaller half - mass radii than disks , one may wonder if the difference in total size between sfgs and quiescent galaxies can be accounted for completely by a redistribution of stellar material from the disk to the bulge , without changing the extent of each of the components individually .",
    "our analysis confirms that the change in @xmath3 of sfgs prior or during quenching is to a large extent responsible for the size difference between the quiescent and star - forming population .",
    "however , some fraction of the shrinking size is still attributed to the individual components being smaller . in figure  [ radii.fig ]",
    ", we show the total sizes as well as the sizes of the individual components for star - forming and quiescent galaxies , as measured on the mass maps . while the total sizes of sfgs and qgs are noticeably different ( by a factor @xmath96 at @xmath97 ) , the difference in size of bulge and disk components between sfgs and qgs respectively is smaller , typically by a factor @xmath82 .          with the morphological parameters of the mass maps for our entire galaxy sample in hand",
    ", we now proceed to relate those with galaxy - integrated star formation properties .",
    "the three panels of figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] show , from left to right , the fraction @xmath98 of quenched galaxies as a function of total stellar mass , bulge mass , and disk mass , respectively . here",
    ", we again define galaxies as quenched / quiescent when @xmath99 , and as star - forming otherwise .",
    "the uncertainties in @xmath98 are derived via a bootstrapping method and represent the 68% confidence levels .",
    "they include both sample variance and the typical measurement errors on @xmath3 , which are derived as described in section 3.2 .",
    "for the bootstrapping , we computed @xmath98 for 1000 samples , which are randomly drawn from the original sample , with replacement . for each bootstrap iteration",
    ", we displace the @xmath3 values for each galaxy by the typical measurement error in @xmath3 , given the galaxy s magnitude , size and measured profile shape .",
    "the top left panel of figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] illustrates that the fraction of quenched galaxies increases with increasing mass , from @xmath100 at around @xmath101 to @xmath102 at @xmath103 .",
    "a second conclusion is that the fraction of quenched galaxies is overall higher for the lower redshift bin , by a factor of @xmath104 on average .",
    "both of these results are well established in the literature .",
    "the rising mass function of quiescent galaxies over cosmic time has most recently been quantified on a firm statistical footing by muzzin et al .",
    "( 2013 ) and ilbert et al .",
    "( 2013 ) , both of which exploit the wide - area ultravista survey .",
    "what candels lacks in number statistics compared to ultravista , it adds in depth and high resolution .",
    "exploiting these key strengths , we now turn to the dependence of the quenched fraction on galaxy subcomponents : the mass of their bulge ( middle panel ) and disk ( right - hand panel ) .",
    "clearly , the dependence of @xmath98 on the bulge mass is much stronger than on the disk mass , which does not show any significant correlation with @xmath98 above @xmath105 . towards lower disk masses ,",
    "@xmath98 increases rapidly , but we point out that this trend is entirely driven by the ( total ) stellar mass limit of our sample ( @xmath106 ; i.e. , the galaxies occupying the lowest @xmath107 bins are necessarily heavily bulge - dominated systems , that tend to form relatively few stars ) .",
    "if lower mass galaxies were to be included , less massive , disk - dominated sfgs would likely outnumber these massive spheroids with small residual disks in the low @xmath107 bins , producing a flat relation of @xmath98 with @xmath107 over the full range probed . above respective masses of @xmath108 , @xmath98 increases more rapidly with bulge mass than with total stellar mass in both redshift ranges ( @xmath109 per dex of @xmath110 compared to @xmath111 per dex @xmath112 , or @xmath100 per dex of @xmath107 ) .",
    "with the bulge - to - disk decompositions in hand , we next split the galaxy sample in bins of @xmath3 , and explore second parameter dependencies .",
    "considering first the dependence of @xmath98 on the total stellar mass , it is apparent that , at a given total mass , @xmath98 is increasing significantly with increasing @xmath3 ratio .",
    "the middle panels of figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] illustrate that , when considering the dependence of @xmath98 on bulge mass , the different @xmath3 bins align along a much tighter locus .",
    "in contrast , a large spread is seen as a function of disk mass ( right - hand panels of figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] ) . in order to quantify these trends , we compute the spearman s rank correlation coefficient ( @xmath113 ) for the relations of @xmath98 with @xmath114 , @xmath115 , and @xmath116 for respective masses @xmath86 .",
    "we find that @xmath117 is indeed significantly higher for the relation @xmath98 vs. @xmath116 ( @xmath118 ) than for both @xmath98 vs. @xmath119 ( @xmath120 ) and @xmath98 vs. @xmath115 ( @xmath121 ) , as measured for @xmath35 .",
    "consistent results are found for @xmath36 .",
    "we investigated the impact of defining quiescence based on a @xmath122 color - color criterion instead of a ssfr cut . when applying a uvj - based selection of quiescent galaxies , we find an overall good agreement with the trends presented in figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] .",
    "quantitatively , small changes occur , with @xmath98 increasing by @xmath123% for the entire @xmath15 sample integrated over all masses .",
    "the good agreement is not surprising , since the precise threshold in ssfr used to select quiescent galaxies ( @xmath99 ) was chosen to yield maximum overlap with the @xmath122 selection criterion .    taken together , this demonstrates that the build - up of a bulge seems to play a critical role in the quenching process of galaxies , whereas the disk does not .",
    "the amount of stars in the disk component of a galaxy has little to no predictive power regarding its star - forming or quenched state , unless also @xmath3 ( and hence the bulge mass ) is known .",
    "we find a qualitatively similar behavior at @xmath36 as at @xmath35 , but note that the cosmic evolution in the quiescent fraction can not solely be attributed to continuing bulge growth over time , as galaxies in the same @xmath112 and @xmath3 bin at @xmath35 are more likely to be quenched than those at @xmath36 .",
    "appendix b illustrates how the equivalent diagrams composed from fits to the @xmath2-band surface brightness rather than the stellar mass distribution exhibit a larger spread from low to high @xmath3 bins .",
    "this generic behavior can be understood from a physical picture where the disk component has a relatively larger weight in light than in mass .",
    "our work is in agreement with , and takes the next step beyond previous reports that the inner stellar mass density is better related to the star formation history than the total stellar mass @xcite , as inferred from rest - optical imaging of smaller samples of high - redshift galaxies ( see kauffmann et al .",
    "2003 and fang et al .",
    "2013 for a local universe reference , and cheung et al .",
    "2012 for intermediate redshifts @xmath124 )    importantly , the same behavior explored here over the redshift range @xmath15 extends in a strikingly similar fashion all the way to the present day , as demonstrated by bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 ) who exploit the large number statistics of sdss .",
    "semi - analytic models ( sams ) have a rich history of trying to reproduce galaxy scaling relations and abundances , with the goal of guiding our interpretation of the observational results . here",
    ", we focus specifically on the sam developed by somerville et al .",
    "( 2008 ) and further updated by somerville et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and porter et al .",
    "( 2014 ) , which is rooted in the bolshoi cosmological dark matter simulation ( klypin et al .",
    "as is generic to all sams , the model relies on simplified analytic prescriptions for the dynamical and astrophysical processes down from entire galaxy scales , rather than on kiloparsec to parsec scales ( the resolution below which state - of - the - art cosmological and zoom - in hydro - simulations resort to subgrid physics , respectively ) .",
    "this limitation , however , yields the enhanced flexibility of a relatively inexpensive runtime , allowing the straightforward generation of statistically significant model galaxy populations , and the tuning of parameters to observational constraints such as mass functions and scaling relations ( only empirical constraints from the nearby universe were used in tuning the parameters of the model considered here ) .",
    "the fact that sams conceptually are formulated in units of bulge and disk components furthermore makes them suitable for a direct and meaningful comparison to the diagnostics explored in this paper .",
    "a detailed description of the prescriptions for cooling , star formation , feedback , and structural growth is provided by somerville et al .",
    "( 2008 , 2012 ) , with extensions and applications to the candels data set presented by porter et al .",
    "the input to and output from the model is further contrasted to that of other sams by lu et al . ( 2013 ) .",
    "for a detailed discussion of the physical recipes of this sam and the resulting output in the context of a larger set of sams , we refer the reader to lu et al .",
    "for the sake of the comparison presented here , we emphasize that none of the relations investigated in this paper formed part of the set of observational constraints to which the model parameters were tuned .",
    "model parameters of the sam were tuned to ( approximately ) match the global stellar mass function , the stellar mass function of early- and late - type galaxies , the gas fraction as a function of stellar mass for disks , and the mass - metallicity relation for stars .    also of particular relevance",
    "is the fact that , in the model , stars form either in the disk following a kennicutt - schmidt law ( kennicutt 1998 ) , where the disk scalelength is set by a similar methodology as mo , mao & white ( 1998 ) , or , in the event of a merger , during a starburst .",
    "bulge formation as well as feeding of the central supermassive black hole can happen through two channels : mergers or disk instabilities ( see porter et al .",
    "2014 ) . the starburst , black hole accretion and morphological transformation induced by mergers depends on the mass ratio and gas fraction , as calibrated using a large suite of binary merger simulations ( somerville et al .",
    "2008 ; hopkins et al .",
    "2009 ; somerville et al .",
    "star formation is moderated through heating of gas by supernovae as well as through agn feedback .",
    "in addition to the quasar mode , during which agn can drive powerful outflows , black holes also grow more gradually over longer timespans through the so - called radio mode ( i.e. , suppression of cooling via radio jets ) . no explicit connection between the bulge mass and quenching ( as may for example be expected from the toomre q stability criterion in a gravitational quenching scenario , see section 6.2 ) was built into the model .     using galaxies from the somerville et al .",
    "galaxies with @xmath125 are assigned as star - forming , the others as quiescent .",
    "uncertainties are derived via bootstrapping to reflect the sample variance .",
    "[ sam_somerville1.fig],scaledwidth=49.0% ]      in figure  [ sam_somerville1.fig ] , we show the model equivalent of figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] , describing how the fraction of galaxies that are quenched depends on the total stellar mass , the mass of stars in the bulge , and the mass of stars in the disk component respectively .",
    "as for the observations , we define the threshold for a galaxy to be quenched with a ruler moving with redshift : @xmath126 . this definition , rather than an application of the uvj diagnostic , remains closer to the direct output of the sam , avoiding a translation to mock spectral energy distributions , which would introduce additional assumptions and uncertainties .    at first glance ,",
    "the sam features several of the characteristic trends noted earlier for the candels galaxies : @xmath98 rises towards later cosmic times , increases with the total stellar mass , more steeply so with bulge mass , and shows no appreciable correlation with disk mass above @xmath127 . in the interval @xmath128 , a sharp drop with increasing @xmath107 is noted , as also seen in the observations .",
    "given the @xmath129 threshold of our sample selection , the latter objects are necessarily heavily bulge - dominated . without imposing such a mass limit ,",
    "less massive , disk - dominated sfgs would outnumber massive early - type galaxies with small residual disks in the lower @xmath107 bins . despite the qualitative success , quantitative differences in the quenched fractions of model galaxies with respect to those observed are clearly present .",
    "the discrepancy is most severe at @xmath36 , where modeled @xmath98 values are , on an average over the whole displayed mass range , of order a factor @xmath130 short of observed , hinting at an underestimated quenching rate and/or inefficiency to prevent quiescent systems from rejuvenating .    when splitting the sam galaxies at each @xmath112 , @xmath110 , and @xmath107 in bins of @xmath3 ( middle and bottom panels of figure  [ sam_somerville1.fig ] ) , we reproduce a similar behavior as found for the real universe in section  [ f_quench.sec ] .",
    "namely , the total stellar mass acts as a poorer predictor of the quenched state of a galaxy . this situation can be remedied if in addition to @xmath112 also @xmath3 ( and hence @xmath110 ) is known .",
    "quantitatively , the correlation between @xmath98 and @xmath110 is measured to be the strongest ( @xmath131 ) , whereas @xmath112 and @xmath107 only show weak correlation with @xmath98 ( @xmath132 and @xmath133 , respectively ) .",
    "the quoted values of @xmath117 are measured for respective masses of @xmath134 and at @xmath35 .",
    "the values for @xmath113 at @xmath36 are similar , with the correlation between @xmath98 and @xmath119 as well as between @xmath98 and @xmath115 being somewhat stronger . at @xmath87 ,",
    "less than 20% of all massive galaxies with @xmath135 are classified as quiescent .",
    "conversely , the majority of galaxies in the upper @xmath3 bin ( with @xmath136 ) have low ssfr .",
    "these inferences are in common between the sam and the observations . also in agreement , is the fact that @xmath110 serves as a better predictor of @xmath98 than the total stellar mass , with different @xmath3 bins being more ( albeit not perfectly ) aligned along a single locus in the @xmath98 versus @xmath110 diagram .    at @xmath88",
    ", the model predictions are skewed towards too low @xmath98 values , as noted earlier . however , in relative terms the same generic behavior as a function of bulge prominence is notable .",
    "we note that most of the trends in figure  [ sam_somerville1.fig ] are driven by physical prescriptions in the sam affecting central galaxies rather than satellites , as centrals account for 80% ( 90% ) of the model galaxy population above @xmath137 ( 11 ) .",
    "those massive galaxies classified as satellites are further subjected to additional environmental quenching processes , resulting in a higher @xmath138 for this particular subpopulation .       as a function of halo and black hole mass using galaxies from the somerville et al .",
    "sam . in the middle and bottom rows ,",
    "the galaxy sample has been split in bins of @xmath3 .",
    "galaxies with @xmath125 are assigned as star - forming , the others as quiescent .",
    "uncertainties are derived via bootstrapping to reflect the sample variance .",
    "[ sam_somerville2.fig],scaledwidth=45.0% ]    given the qualitative agreement between model and observations , we can now pose the question how , in the context of the somerville sam , the relation between structure and stellar populations could be interpreted . to this end",
    ", we consider the dependence of @xmath98 on two physical properties of galaxies in the sam that are not observationally accessible for our candels sample : the halo mass @xmath139 and the mass of the central supermassive black hole @xmath140 .",
    "the top panels of figure  [ sam_somerville2.fig ] illustrate that the probability of a galaxy being quenched increases towards high @xmath139 and high @xmath140 . in detail , however , the dependencies on the two look different .",
    "the increase in @xmath98 with @xmath139 is gradual over nearly two orders of magnitude .",
    "in contrast , a much sharper upturn of @xmath98 emerges above @xmath141 .",
    "this behavior is especially notable at @xmath35 , but a rise above the same threshold is present in the @xmath36 population as well .",
    "breaking the model galaxy population down by its structural properties , we find a wide spread in @xmath98 for different @xmath3 at a given @xmath139 .",
    "naively , a different , less scattered behavior would be expected if halo mass quenching were the sole and dominant mechanism ( birnboim et al .",
    "2007 ; dekel & birnboim 2008 ; dekel et al .",
    "2009 ) . as a function of @xmath140 , on the other hand , a similar upturn in @xmath98 is present for all @xmath3 bins equally above @xmath141 .",
    "the increased scatter in the relation between @xmath98 and @xmath110 compared to the tight correlation of @xmath98 and @xmath140 can be explained by the sam s @xmath140 - @xmath110 relation . for a given @xmath3 bin , the scatter in the @xmath140 - @xmath110 relation",
    "is significant compared to the dynamic range in the bulge masses plotted . at a given bulge mass ,",
    "the scatter stems in part from an anti - correlation between the black hole mass and the level of star formation activity ( ssfr ) .",
    "our analysis illustrates that in the somerville model , which includes feedback from both supernovae and agn , the central supermassive black hole acts as the primary agent of quenching in massive galaxies , and its accumulated mass ( i.e. , the integral over past accretion activity ) is tightly related to the probability of finding a galaxy in a quenched state .",
    "since the physical processes giving rise to bulge and black hole growth are the same in the sam ( mergers and disk instabilities ) , the stronger relation of @xmath98 with @xmath110 than with @xmath112 , present in both observations and model predictions , is not surprising .",
    "we stress that in the somerville model , no direct causal link between the presence of a bulge and quenching is implemented .",
    "the bulge is simply the accessible observable that correlates most tightly with the actual agent of quenching in this particular model : the supermassive black hole .",
    "observationally , there is increasing evidence for agn - driven outflows of massive @xmath142 galaxies ( frster schreiber et al . 2013",
    "; nesvadba et al .",
    "2011 ; harrison et al .",
    "2012 ; cano - daz et al .",
    "2012 ) . given the shortcomings of the sam in a quantitative sense , notably its underprediction of the quiescent population at @xmath36 , additional or other quenching processes may be at play in the real universe .",
    "one such process , that is causally linked to the presence of a bulge , could be morphological quenching ( martig et al . 2009 ; genzel et al .",
    "in such a scenario , the high central stellar density provided by a bulge , stabilizes the gas disk and prevents it from forming stars .",
    "while plausibly only a temporary measure ( as no gas is expelled , nor stopped from accreting through this mechanism ) , it could potentially contribute to suppressing star formation in @xmath36 galaxies more efficiently and/or preventing them from returning to the star - forming branch in the sam . in the local universe ,",
    "star formation efficiencies of bulge - dominated systems are reduced by factors of @xmath143 compared to disk - dominated galaxies ( saintonge et al .",
    "2012 ; martig et al .",
    "in order to study the morphological differences between sfgs and quiescent galaxies , and to draw conclusions on the possible structural changes of star - forming galaxies as they move along the ms , we first examined the mass dependence of the profile shape of sfgs and quiescent galaxies as traced by the  index and @xmath3 ratio .",
    "we have shown that quiescent galaxies are structurally distinct from the star - forming population as seen by overall higher  indices and @xmath3 ratios at a given stellar mass .",
    "sfgs show rising trends of their median  index and @xmath3 ratio with increasing stellar mass , with the latter rising up to @xmath144 above @xmath4 .",
    "these findings give insights about the link between the structural evolution of sfgs and the quenching process as they move along the ms .    analyzing the schechter functional forms of the sfg and qg mass function as a function of redshift , @xcite",
    "conclude that the quenching rate of galaxies climbing the ms rises proportionally to the sfr ( and given the near - linear ms slope therefore also proportionally to the stellar mass , hence their terminology mass quenching ) .",
    "this corresponds to a survival probability on the ms that drops exponentially with mass , implying that , while nearly all low - mass sfgs are destined to continue growing along the ms , toward the high - mass end the ms becomes progressively more dominated by near - to - be - dead sfgs .",
    "in fact , the sub - unity slope of the ms , and possible flattening at the high - mass end ( whitaker et al . 2012 ) , may well be interpreted in this context : the typical sfg above @xmath4 is already undergoing some level of quenching , thereby deviating from the projected path along a sfr - mass relation of slope unity , that could be expected from cosmological accretion rates in the absence of quenching . tying in our observational results on galaxy structure ,",
    "the deviation toward high median @xmath41 and @xmath3 at the massive end reflects the typical structure of soon - to - be - dead star - formers that account for the bulk of sfgs above @xmath4 .",
    "the fact that they are structurally distinct implies that the morphological transition happens first , to be followed later by the departure from the ms .",
    "bulge growth precedes quiescence .",
    "such a morphological change prior to quenching is in line with qualitative predictions based on a toy model by dekel & burkert ( 2013 ) . in the latter study , about half of the star - forming disk galaxies at @xmath55",
    "are predicted to evolve into compact star - forming blue nuggets due to violent disk instabilities before they are quenched into compact quiescent galaxies ( red nuggets ) .",
    "an observed population of blue nuggets has been proposed by barro et al .",
    "( 2013a , b ) to represent an evolutionary link , originating from extended disk galaxies , and evolving into compact quiescent systems .",
    "this does not refute that galaxies also undergo further structural evolution after they are quenched .",
    "at least part of the size growth ( cassata et al .",
    "2013 ; van der wel et al . 2014 ) and evolution toward rounder axial ratios",
    "( chang et al . 2013 ) has been attributed to ( minor and/or major ) dry mergers , and it is conceivable that similar processes contribute to the observed trend of increasing @xmath3 toward the massive end for the quiescent population .",
    "we have demonstrated that the bulge mass of a system is well correlated with its quenched state and has a stronger predictive power of quiescence than the total stellar mass .",
    "the observed trends of @xmath98 with total stellar mass , bulge mass and disk mass as viewed among galaxies in different @xmath3 bins are in good qualitative agreement with predictions from the somerville et al .",
    "sam . in the context of this model ,",
    "the growth of the central supermassive black hole , which is the primary quenching agent for massive galaxies in this sam , is tightly coupled with the growth of bulges through both merging and disk instabilities .",
    "if a black hole - bulge scaling relation is in place during the peak of cosmic star formation as it is in the present - day universe ( hring & rix 2004 ) , our observational results together with the model comparison could therefore hint at the bulge not being the causal link to quenching , but rather the most accessible observational proxy for the agn acting as the quenching agent . in detail , however , there are quantitative differences between the sam and our observations , most severely in the highest redshift bin ( @xmath88 ) , where the observed quenched fraction exceeds the value predicted by the sam by a factor of @xmath145 .",
    "the latter difference could hint at a need for more frequent , efficient , or lasting quenching , a possible mechanism we speculate about below .",
    "we also note that the same behavior is not necessarily a generic feature to all sams ( see appendix c ) .",
    "it is tempting to draw connections between the emerging bulges in massive ms galaxies out to @xmath9 revealed by our analysis , and recent observational results based on deep ao - assisted integral field data sets and grism spectroscopy over the same redshift range .",
    "frster schreiber et al . (",
    "2013 ) found a high prevalence of powerful nuclear outflows in @xmath146 galaxies driven by agn , which appear to be absent in galaxies at lower masses .",
    "along with star formation driven winds in the outer parts of the galaxies , such outflows could efficiently remove gas out of galaxies and , in this way , contribute to the quenching process .",
    "meanwhile , the 3d - hst and candels legacy programs have yielded evidence for nuclear depressions in the h@xmath147 equivalent width in @xmath35 sfgs ( nelson et al .",
    "2012 , 2013 ; wuyts et al .",
    "2013 ) . at the highest stellar surface mass densities",
    ", star formation no longer appears to proceed in lockstep with the assembled stellar mass .",
    "likewise , genzel et al .",
    "( 2014 ) report on ring - shaped h@xmath147 distributions in @xmath36 sfgs , surrounding a more quiescent center where the dynamically inferred toomre q parameter significantly exceeds unity , owing to the emergence of a stellar bulge . as such",
    ", the toomre stability criterion is satisfied in the central galaxy regions , which consequently could prevent the gas reservoir , if present there , from fragmenting and forming stars .",
    "while this result suggests that some causal connection between bulge growth and quenching may be at play , it should be noted ( as is done also by genzel et al .",
    "2014 ) that gravitational quenching by itself does not expel the gas present , neither does it stop the accumulation of a larger gas reservoir by continuing cosmological accretion .",
    "additional maintenance mode might be required for a long - term shut - down of further gas supply .",
    "we analyzed the structural properties of a sample of 6764 massive ( @xmath148 ) galaxies in the redshift range @xmath32 , by exploiting the multi - wavelength candels hst imaging data set in all five candels/3d - hst fields .",
    "we carried out single - component ( ) fits and two - component ( bulge + disk ) decompositions , on stellar mass maps reconstructed from a resolved panchromatic sed modeling technique ( wuyts et al .",
    "2012 , 2013 ) , as well as on images of the @xmath2-band surface brightness distribution .",
    "in addition , we compared our findings to predictions by the state - of - the - art semi - analytic model from somerville et al .",
    "( 2008 , 2012 ; with extensions including disk instabilities presented by porter et al . 2014 ) .",
    "our main results are the following :    1 .   at fixed stellar mass ,",
    "quiescent galaxies have overall higher  indices and @xmath3 ratios than sfgs as measured on their mass maps , in line with previous findings using monochromatic observations .",
    "we find an increase of  indices among sfgs with increasing total stellar mass , with the median mass profiles increasing from ( @xmath149 ) at @xmath0 , to @xmath150 above @xmath4 .",
    "two - component bulge - disk decompositions confirm that the same rising trend is present when considering the median @xmath3 ratio of sfgs , which is rising up to @xmath144 above @xmath4 .",
    "the same characteristic behavior is seen at @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "2 .   quantifying the same trends on the h - band light profiles rather than the mass maps , the  indices and @xmath3 fractions are overall lower for sfgs , confirming previous non - parametric measurements for a subset of our sample ( wuyts et al .",
    "the emergence of bulges above @xmath4 in sfgs appears to be also slightly less prominent when viewed in light , consistent with the steepest color gradients ( blue disks with red central bulges ) being found among massive sfgs .",
    "3 .   the likelihood of a galaxy being quenched , as traced by the fraction of quiescent galaxies , is better correlated with the bulge mass than the total stellar mass and further shows no appreciable correlation with the amount of stellar mass in the disk component .",
    "the quenched fraction at redshift 1 is on average higher by a factor @xmath151 than at redshift 2 .",
    "4 .   at a given total stellar mass ,",
    "the quenched fraction exhibits a strong positive correlation with @xmath3 , while different @xmath3 bins are confined to a significantly tighter locus in a diagram of @xmath98 versus @xmath110 .",
    "these findings imply that the bulge mass of a system is the single observable parameter with the most predictive power regarding its quenched state , although a somewhat tighter constraint on the probability of quiescence can be obtained if in addition also the total stellar mass is known .",
    "the same trend is seen over the full redshift range probed , with the distinction that quenched fractions are lower at higher lookback times .",
    "we find a good qualitative agreement between the semi - analytic model by somerville et al .",
    "sam and our observational findings . since bulge and black hole growth",
    "are tightly coupled in the sam , the strong dependence of @xmath98 on bulge mass follows rather naturally in this model .",
    "our observational results can _ in the context of this model _ therefore be interpreted as the bulge being the closest observable proxy to the underlying agent of quenching : the black hole .",
    "quantitatively , the largest discrepancy between model and observations is found in the highest redshift bin ( @xmath88 ) , where the observed quenched fraction is larger by a factor of @xmath145 than predicted by the sam .",
    "we note that the same behavior is not necessarily a generic feature to all sams .",
    "[ [ section ] ]    the authors acknowledge fruitful discussions with edmond cheung , david c. koo , yu lu , casey j. papovich , mohammadtaher safarzadeh , benjamin j. weiner and steven p. willner .",
    "support for program number hst - go-12060 and hst - go-12177 was provided by nasa through a grant from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , incorporated , under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "the combination of our one and two - component fits on the mass maps enables us to examine empirically how the  index relates the amplitude of the bulge ( as parametrized by @xmath3 ) on the one hand , and the relative size - ratio to the bulge and disk component ( @xmath43 ) on the other hand .",
    "figure  [ n_bd.fig ] illustrates that , while @xmath3 shows a clear correlation with @xmath41 , there is no unique one - to - one translation between the two . instead , the best - fit @xmath41 to a composite bulge+disk system additionally depends on the size ratio of the two components . in other words ,",
    "a galaxy s sersic index could be increased by placing more material in the bulge , but also by growing the disk at fixed bulge size .",
    "the observed candels galaxies occupy a surface in this three - parameter space ( @xmath41 , @xmath3 , @xmath43 ) that is in good agreement with what would be anticipated from sersic fits to idealized , noise - free bulge ( @xmath152 ) plus disk ( @xmath153 ) profiles ( squares and curves in the left - and right - hand panels of figure  [ n_bd.fig ] , respectively ) .",
    "evidently , for systems with @xmath3 close to 0 or 1 , the size ratio of the two components is ill - constrained as one of them contains barely any mass .",
    "the galaxies in our full @xmath15 sample span the full range of @xmath3 values , and are located predominantly around bulge - to - disk size ratios of @xmath154 .",
    "here , we investigate how the results of our structural analysis change when conducting the measurements on the @xmath2-band light images rather than on the stellar mass maps . to this end",
    ", we present in figure  [ light_struc.fig ] the same figures as discussed in section  [ structure.sec ] , now using the  index and @xmath3 values as inferred from the candels @xmath2-band imaging .",
    "likewise , we compute the bulge and disk mass as @xmath155 and @xmath156 , respectively .    overall , our analysis reveals a qualitatively similar mass dependence of @xmath41 and @xmath3 , and distinction between sfgs and quiescent galaxies as inferred from the mass maps . in detail , however , modest changes in @xmath41 and @xmath3 are notable . while the median @xmath35 ( 2 ) sfg has @xmath157 ( 0.20 ) , the typical bulge fractions increase to above 20% , and reach up to @xmath158 at the massive end , once spatial @xmath39 variations are corrected for",
    ". likewise , the corresponding  indices measured on @xmath2-band imaging for sfgs below @xmath159 are consistent with exponential disk profiles ( see also wuyts et al .",
    "2011 ) , but are slightly cuspier as quantified on mass maps .",
    "this is in line with findings based on smaller subsets of candels data by wuyts et al .",
    "( 2012 ) and guo et al .",
    "( 2012 ) .",
    "the central 50th percentile intervals marked by the red and blue polygons are somewhat less confined in the plots based on stellar mass maps compared to the @xmath2-band results .",
    "we interpret this to be due to an additional source of random uncertainty introduced by the resolved stellar population modeling .",
    "the resolved stellar population modeling itself was motivated by the need to reduce the systematic biases associated with spatial @xmath39 ratio variations .",
    "focussing on figure  [ light_struc.fig ] , the qualitative trends of @xmath98 with total stellar mass , bulge and disk mass are very similar .",
    "however , the lower two rows of figure  [ light_struc.fig ] compared to figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] show that the bins of lowest and highest @xmath3 are more separated from each other in @xmath98 in light than in mass .",
    "this observation too is in line with the disks of sfgs being dominating by a younger stellar population than that of the bulge , shifting sfgs to lower @xmath3 .",
    "the middle panels of figure  [ light_struc.fig ] show a larger scatter than the corresponding panels in figure  [ fquench_all.fig ] .",
    "in order to evaluate to which extent the characteristic trends of the somerville et al .",
    "sam , as presented in section  [ sam_results.sec ] , are generic to all semi - analytic models , we considered an independent semi - analytic model by guo et al .",
    "the guo et al .",
    "( 2013 ) model is rooted in the dark matter backbone of the millennium simulation ( springel et al .",
    "2005 ) , and its output tables with galaxy properties for snapshots of different lookback times are publicly available on the virgo millennium database ( g. lemson & the virgo consortium 2006 ) .",
    "we present the equivalent plots of figure  [ sam_somerville1.fig ] and  [ sam_somerville2.fig ] in figure   [ sam_guo.fig ] . as in the somerville model ,",
    "quenched fractions are rising with increasing mass , increasing bulge mass , and decreasing redshift , but broken down in bins of @xmath3 , significant differences are notable . specifically",
    ", @xmath98 does not monotonically increase with increasing @xmath3 at a given stellar mass .",
    "andredakis , y.  c. , peletier , r.  f. , & balcells , m.  1995 , , 275 , 874 barro , g. , faber , s.  m. , prez - gonzlez , p.  g. , et al .  2013a , , 765 , 104 barro , g. , faber , s.  m. , perez - gonzalez , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2013b , apj , submitted ( arxiv:1311.5559 ) behroozi , p.  s. , conroy , c. , & wechsler , r.  h.  2010 , , 717 , 379 bell , e.  f. , wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 608 , 752 bell , e.  f.  2008 , , 682 , 355 bell , e.  f. , van der wel , a. , papovich , c. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 753 , 167 birnboim , y. , & dekel , a.  2003 , , 345 , 349 birnboim , y. , dekel , a. , & neistein , e.  2007 , , 380 , 339 bluck , a.  f.  l. , mendel , j.  t. , ellison , s.  l. , et al .",
    "2014 , , submitted ( arxiv:1403.5269 ) bournaud , f. , dekel , a. , teyssier , r. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 741 , l33 brammer , g.  b. , whitaker , k.  e. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 706 , l173 brammer , g.  b. , whitaker , k.  e. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 739 , 24 brammer , g.  b. , van dokkum , p.  g. , franx , m. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 200 , 13 bruce , v.  a. , dunlop , j.  s. , cirasuolo , m. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 427 , 1666 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s.  2003 , , 344 , 1000 calzetti , d. , armus , l. , bohlin , r.  c. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 533 , 682 cano - daz , m. , maiolino , r. , marconi , a. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 537 , l8 cappellari , m. , & copin , y.  2003 , , 342 , 345 cassata , p. , giavalisco , m. , williams , c.  c. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 775 , 106 chabrier , g.  2003 , , 586 , l133 chang , y .- y . , van der wel , a. , rix , h .- w .",
    ", et al .",
    "2013 , , 773 , 149 cheung , e. , faber , s.  m. , koo , d.  c. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 760 , 131 ciambur , b.  c. , kauffmann , g. , & wuyts , s.  2013 , , 432 , 2488 cibinel , a. , carollo , c.  m. , lilly , s.  j. , et al .  2013 , , 776 , 72 crocker , a. , krips , m. , bureau , m. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 421 , 1298 croton , d.  j. , springel , v. , white , s.  d.  m. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 365 , 11 daddi , e. , dickinson , m. , morrison , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 670 , 156 davis , m. , guhathakurta , p. , konidaris , n.  p. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 660 , l1 dekel , a. , & birnboim , y.  2008 , , 383 , 119 dekel , a. , birnboim , y. , engel , g. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 457 , 451 dekel , a. , & burkert , a.  2013 , , 2954 de jong , r.  s. , simard , l. , davies , r.  l. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 355 , 1155 elbaz , d. , daddi , e. , le borgne , d. , et al .  2007 , , 468 , 33 elmegreen , b.  g. , elmegreen , d.  m. , fernandez , m.  x. , & lemonias , j.  j.  2009 , , 692 , 12 faber , s.  m. , willmer , c.  n.  a. , wolf , c. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 665 , 265 fang , j.  j. , faber , s.  m. , koo , d.  c. , & dekel , a.  2013 , , 776 , 63 ferrarese , l. , van den bosch , f.  c. , ford , h.  c. , jaffe , w. , & oconnell , r.  w.  1994 , , 108 , 1598 frster schreiber , n.  m. , genzel , r. , bouch , n. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 706 , 1364 frster schreiber , n.  m. , shapley , a.  e. , genzel , r. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 739 , 45 frster schreiber , n.  m. , genzel , r. , newman , s.  f. , et al .",
    "2013 , , submitted ( arxiv:1311.2596 ) franx , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , schreiber , n.  m.  f. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 688 , 770 genzel , r. , frster schreiber , n.  m. , lang , p. , et al .",
    "2014 , , 785 , 75 giavalisco , m. , ferguson , h.  c. , koekemoer , a.  m. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 600 , l93 grogin , n.  a. , kocevski , d.  d. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 197 , 35 guo , y. , giavalisco , m. , cassata , p. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 735 , 18 guo , y. , giavalisco , m. , ferguson , h.  c. , cassata , p. , & koekemoer , a.  m.  2012 , , 757 , 120 guo , q. , white , s. , angulo , r.  e. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 428 , 1351 hring , n. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "2004 , , 604 , l89 harrison , c.  m. , alexander , d.  m. , swinbank , a.  m. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 426 , 1073 hopkins , p.  f. , hernquist , l. , cox , t.  j. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 163 , 1 hopkins , p.  f. , somerville , r.  s. , cox , t.  j. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 397 , 802 ilbert , o. , mccracken , h.  j. , le fvre , o. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 556 , a55 jaffe , w. , ford , h.  c. , oconnell , r.  w. , van den bosch , f.  c. , & ferrarese , l.  1994 , , 108 , 1567 kauffmann , g. , heckman , t.  m. , white , s.  d.  m. , et al .  2003 , , 341 , 54 kauffmann , g. , heckman , t.  m. , de lucia , g. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 367 , 1394 kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .",
    "1998 , , 498 , 541 kere , d. , katz , n. , weinberg , d.  h. , & dav , r.  2005 , , 363 , 2 klypin , a.  a. , trujillo - gomez , s. , & primack , j.  2011 , , 740 , 102 koekemoer , a.  m. , aussel , h. , calzetti , d. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 172 , 196 koekemoer , a.  m. , faber , s.  m. , ferguson , h.  c. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 197 , 36 koo , d.  c. , simard , l. , willmer , c.  n.  a. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 157 , 175 kormendy , j. , & kennicutt , r.  c. , jr .  2004 , , 42 , 603 kriek , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , franx , m. , illingworth , g.  d. , & magee , d.  k.  2009 , , 705 , l71 krist , j.  1995 , astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , 77 , 349 lanyon - foster , m.  m. , conselice , c.  j. , & merrifield , m.  r.  2012 , , 424 , 1852 lee , b. , giavalisco , m. , williams , c.  c. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 774 , 47 lemson , g. , & virgo consortium , t.  2006 , arxiv : astro - ph/0608019 lu , y. , wechsler , r.  h. , somerville , r.  s. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , submitted ( arxiv:1312.3233 ) lutz , d. , poglitsch , a. , altieri , b. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 532 , a90 magnelli , b. , popesso , p. , berta , s. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 553 , a132 maraston , c. , pforr , j. , renzini , a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 407 , 830 martig , m. , bournaud , f. , teyssier , r. , & dekel , a.  2009 , , 707 , 250 martig , m. , crocker , a.  f. , bournaud , f. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 432 , 1914 mo , h.  j. , mao , s. , & white , s.  d.  m.  1998 , , 295 , 319 moster , b.  p. , somerville , r.  s. , maulbetsch , c. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 710 , 903 muzzin , a. , marchesini , d. , stefanon , m. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 777 , 18 nelson , e.  j. , van dokkum , p.  g. , brammer , g. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 747 , l28 nelson , e.  j. , van dokkum , p.  g. , momcheva , i. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 763 , l16 nesvadba , n.  p.  h. , polletta , m. , lehnert , m.  d. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 415 , 2359 noeske , k.  g. , weiner , b.  j. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 660 , l43 papovich , c. , dickinson , m. , & ferguson , h.  c.  2001 , , 559 , 620 peng , c.  y. , ho , l.  c. , impey , c.  d. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "2010 , , 139 , 2097 peng , y .- j .",
    ", lilly , s.  j. , kova , k. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 721 , 193 porter , l. a. , somerville , r.  s. , primack , j.  r. , johansson , p.  h.  2014 , , sumitted rodighiero , g. , daddi , e. , baronchelli , i. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 739 , l40 rosario , d.  j. , santini , p. , lutz , d. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 771 , 63 saintonge , a. , tacconi , l.  j. , fabello , s. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 758 , 73 schiminovich , d. , wyder , t.  k. , martin , d.  c. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 173 , 315 shapley , a.  e. , steidel , c.  c. , erb , d.  k. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 626 , 698 skelton , r.  e. , whitaker , k.  e. , momcheva , i.  g. , et al .",
    "2014 , , submitted ( arxiv:1403.3689 ) somerville , r.  s. , hopkins , p.  f. , cox , t.  j. , robertson , b.  e. , & hernquist , l.  2008 , , 391 , 481 somerville , r.  s. , gilmore , r.  c. , primack , j.  r. , & domnguez , a.  2012 , , 423 , 1992 springel , v. , white , s.  d.  m. , jenkins , a. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 435 , 629 strateva , i. , ivezi ,  . ,",
    "knapp , g.  r. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 122 , 1861 szomoru , d. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 714 , l244 szomoru , d. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 763 , 73 toft , s. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 705 , 255 tomczak , a.  r. , quadri , r.  f. , tran , k .- v .",
    "h. , et al .",
    "2014 , , 783 , 85 van den bosch , f.  c. , ferrarese , l. , jaffe , w. , ford , h.  c. , & oconnell , r.  w.  1994 , , 108 , 1579 van der wel , a. , bell , e.  f. , hussler , b. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 203 , 24 van der wel , a. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2014 , , submitted ( arxiv:1404.2844 ) van dokkum , p.  g. , brammer , g. , fumagalli , m. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 743 , l15 wang , t. , huang , j .- s . , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 752 , 134 weiner , b.  j. , phillips , a.  c. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 620 , 595 whitaker , k.  e. , labb , i. , van dokkum , p.  g. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 735 , 86 whitaker , k.  e. , van dokkum , p.  g. , brammer , g. , & franx , m.  2012 , , 754 , l29 williams , r.  j. , quadri , r.  f. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p. , & labb , i.  2009 , , 691 , 1879 windhorst , r.  a. , cohen , s.  h. , hathi , n.  p. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 193 , 27 woo , j. , dekel , a. , faber , s.  m. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 428 , 3306 wuyts , s. , labb , i. , franx , m. , et al .",
    "2007 , , 655 , 51 wuyts , s. , frster schreiber , n.  m. , van der wel , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 742 , 96 wuyts , s. , frster schreiber , n.  m. , genzel , r. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 753 , 114 wuyts , s. , frster schreiber , n.  m. , nelson , e.  j. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 779 , 135 zibetti , s. , charlot , s. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "2009 , , 400 , 1181"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> exploiting the deep high - resolution imaging of all 5 candels fields , and accurate redshift information provided by 3d - hst , we investigate the relation between structure and stellar populations for a mass - selected sample of 6764 galaxies above @xmath0 , spanning the redshift range @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> for the first time , we fit 2-dimensional models comprising a single  fit and two - component ( i.e. , bulge + disk ) decompositions not only to the @xmath2-band light distributions , but also to the stellar mass maps reconstructed from resolved stellar population modeling . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm that the increased bulge prominence among quiescent galaxies , as reported previously based on rest - optical observations , remains in place when considering the distributions of stellar mass . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , we observe an increase of the typical  index and bulge - to - total ratio ( with median @xmath3 reaching 40 - 50% ) among star - forming galaxies above @xmath4 . given that quenching for these most massive systems is likely to be imminent </S>",
    "<S> , our findings suggest that significant bulge growth precedes a departure from the star - forming main sequence . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the bulge mass ( and ideally knowledge of the bulge and total mass ) is a more reliable predictor of the star - forming versus quiescent state of a galaxy than the total stellar mass . </S>",
    "<S> the same trends are predicted by the state - of - the - art semi - analytic model by somerville et al . in the latter , bulges and black holes </S>",
    "<S> grow hand in hand through merging and/or disk instabilities , and agn - feedback shuts off star formation . </S>",
    "<S> further observations will be required to pin down star formation quenching mechanisms , but our results imply they must be internal to the galaxies and closely associated with bulge growth . </S>"
  ]
}