{
  "article_text": [
    "it is not uncommon in nature to observe properties that present non - trivial forms of scale dependence .",
    "this is the case , for instance , of critical phenomena , where scaling invariance , universal properties and renormalization concepts constitute the theoretical framework of a well - established field in physics @xcite . in biology ,",
    "the so - called allometric relations certainly represent outstanding examples of natural scaling laws .",
    "precisely , allometry implies the use of power - laws , @xmath4 , to describe the dependence of a wide range of anatomical , physiological and behavioral properties , denoted here as @xmath5 , on the size or the body mass of different animal species , @xmath6 .",
    "if the scaling exponent is @xmath7 , the variables @xmath5 and @xmath6 are trivially proportional , and the relation between them is said to be isometric , while @xmath8 indicates an allometric type of relationship .",
    "the so - called `` three - quarters law '' or kleiber s law , as originally proposed by the agricultural biologist max kleiber in 1947 @xcite , is surely one of the most prominent allometric relations found in natural sciences .",
    "based on an extensive set of experimental data , this fundamental law states that the metabolic rate of all animals should scale to the @xmath9 power of their corresponding masses @xcite .",
    "in analogy with biological scaling laws , bettencourt _ et al . _",
    "@xcite showed that , regardless the enormous complexity and diversity of human behavior and the extraordinary geographic variability of urban settlements , cities belonging to the same urban system obey pervasive allometric relations with population size , therefore exhibiting nonextensive rates of innovation , wealth creation , patterns of consumption , human social behavior , and several other properties related to the urban infrastructure .",
    "the authors then conclude that all data can be grouped into three categories , namely , material infrastructure , individual human needs , and patterns of social activity . despite the unambiguous presence of power - laws , the urban indicators do not necessarily follow a universal behavior .",
    "instead the results can be divided in three different classes .",
    "the isometric ( linear ) case ( @xmath7 ) typically reflects the scaling of individual human needs , like the number of jobs , houses , and water consumption . as in biology ,",
    "the allometric sublinear behavior ( @xmath10 ) implies an economy of scale in the quantity of interest , because its _ per capita _ measurement decreases with population size . in the case of cities ,",
    "this is materialized , for example , in the number of gasoline stations , the total length of electrical cables , and the road surface ( material and infrastructure ) .",
    "the case of superlinear allometry ( @xmath11 ) in urban indicators emerges whenever the complex patterns of social activity have significant influence .",
    "wages , income , growth domestic product , bank deposits , as well as rates of invention , measured by new patents and employment in creative sectors , all display a superlinear increase with population size @xcite .",
    "while these results indicate that larger cities are associated with higher levels of human productivity and quality of life , superlinear scaling can also characterize negative urban scenarios , such as the prospect of living costs , crime rates , pollution and disease incidence @xcite .",
    "* brazilian data .",
    "* we analyzed data available for all brazilian cities from 1992 to 2009 , made freely available by the brazil s public healthcare system ",
    "datasus @xcite .",
    "here we consider that cities are the smallest administrative units with local government .",
    "the data consist of the number of homicides , suicides , and deaths in traffic accidents as well as the population for each city .",
    "* us data .",
    "* we used data from the national cancer institute seer , surveillance epidemiology and end results downloaded from http://seer.cancer.gov / data/. the institute provides mortality data aggregated for three or five years .",
    "to compare with brazil , we use suicide mortality data for each american county accumulated through the five years of 2003 to 2007 .",
    "since the population is almost constant for a five years period , we adopted the average county population as a measurement for the population on the allometry relation .",
    "[ fig : scaling ]",
    "* allometry in urban indicators . *",
    "the main goal here is to investigate the scaling behavior with city population of three urban indicators , namely the number of homicides , deaths in traffic accidents and suicides . for this",
    ", we analyzed data available for all brazilian cities and as well as suicide for us counties , as presented previously on materials and methods . for 2009 in brazil , as shown in fig .",
    "1 , the increase in the number of casualties @xmath12 with city population @xmath13 for the three death causes can be properly described in terms of power - laws , @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is a normalization constant , and the exponent @xmath16 reflects a global property at play across the urban system .",
    "interestingly , while the number of deaths by traffic accidents display isometric scaling , @xmath17 , homicides and suicides are both allometric , but obeying superlinear and sublinear scaling with population , respectively .",
    "these results suggest that the decision to commit a crime or to suicide , instead of being purely a consequence of individual choices , might have strong correlations with the underlying complex social organization and interactions .",
    "this does not seem to be the case of traffic accidents , since the strong evidence for isometric scaling , @xmath18 , indicates that such events should result from random processes , i.e. , no social relations need to be implied among the involved people .     [",
    "fig : expoente por ano ]    from the superlinear scaling exponent found for the number of homicides in brazil at the year 2009 , @xmath19 , one should expect that , by doubling the population of a city , the number of homicides would grow approximately by a factor of @xmath20 in average , instead of just growing @xmath21 , as if we had an isometric scaling .",
    "this super - linear behavior is consistent with that found for serious crimes in usa @xcite .",
    "the result obtained for suicide scaling seems quite surprising .",
    "as depicted in fig .",
    "1c , the number of suicides scales with the population size as a power law with exponent @xmath2 , which implies an `` economy of scale '' of @xmath22 in comparison with isometric scaling , similar to kleiber s law for metabolic rates and animal masses .",
    "this sublinear behaviour is reminiscent of the seminal study by mile durheim @xcite , one of the fathers of modern sociology . in his book",
    "_ suicide _ , durkheim explored the differences in average suicide rates among protestants and catholics , arguing that stronger social control among catholics leads to lower suicide rates . the crucial contribution from durkheim was certainly to treat the suicide as a social fact , by explaining variations in its rate at a macro level as a direct consequence of society - scale phenomena , such as lack of connections between people ( group attachment ) and lack of regulations of behavior , rather than individuals feelings and motivations .",
    "the discrepancies observed in the scaling behaviors of homicides , deaths in traffic accidents and suicides become even more evident if we plot the average number of deaths per capita against city population , as shown in fig .",
    "1d . under this framework ,",
    "the systematic decrease in suicide rate with population indicates that a large supply of potential social contacts and interactions might work as an `` antidote '' for this tragic event .",
    "this result is consistent with the idea that human happiness is more a collective phenomenon than a consequence of individual well - being conditions . in analogy with health ,",
    "it is then possible to consider a `` happiness epidemy '' spreading in a social network like showed previously in @xcite . in fig .",
    "2 we show the dependence on time of the exponent @xmath16 for a period of 18 years , from 1992 to 2009 . we see a robust behavior for @xmath16 , in such a way that even for different years we still having @xmath23 for homicides , @xmath24 for suicides , and @xmath16 slightly above @xmath25 for deaths by traffic accidents .",
    "we also analyzed data available for suicides for all us counties .",
    "the data is an accumulation of the total number of suicides during a period of five years , from 2003 to 2007 . in fig .",
    "3 we see the total number of suicides during these five years against the average population for each county .",
    "as we can see the number of suicides also scales with a sub - linear power law with an exponent @xmath26 .",
    "this results corroborates the previously found to brazil , indicating that suicide need to be treat as a social fact .    in fig .",
    "4 we show the density map in the 2d plane , fatality per capita ( deaths divided by population ) versus population size for brazil in 2009 . to obtain the approximate density",
    "we perform kernel density estimation in the log - log space .",
    "we also include in the figure lines indicating the 10% , 50% , and 90% levels for each population size . besides confirming the superlinear , linear , and sublinear behaviors , this results also show how the probability distribution of rates of fatality vary with the population size . also , the 10% and 90% lines are representative of expected extreme cases of low and high fatalities , respectively .",
    "[ fig : suicideus ]     [ fig : density ]",
    "allometric relations are ubiquitous in nature , appearing in a wide variety of biological , sociological , chemical and physical systems @xcite .",
    "even the arrangement of lego pieces has been recently reported to obey a sublinear scaling between the number of pieces types vs. the total number of pieces for many lego sets @xcite .",
    "as originally proposed in biology by kleiber @xcite and extended later by others @xcite , a single power law comprising 27 orders of magnitude can associate the metabolisms of a microscopical bacteria and a blue whale , weighting a few picograms and more than 100 t , respectively .",
    "unlike allometric relations in biology , few attempts have been made to explain the origin of universal scaling laws describing urban indicators . in a recent study  @xcite",
    ", a quantitative framework has been developed to consider the interactions between people over a social network that is capable to predict the allometric scaling for urban systems .",
    "here we studied the scaling relation with population of three behavioral urban indicators , namely , number of homicides , victims of vehicles crashes , and suicide events .",
    "we show that , unlike the incidence of vehicles crashes with fatal victims , which exhibits isometric ( linear ) scaling , homicides and suicides are characterized by allometric behaviors , sublinear and superlinear , respectively .",
    "precisely , we found that the superlinear scaling relation for the number of homicides has an allometric exponent that lies between 1.21 and 1.31 along the years , between 1992 and 2009 . despite all their positive attributes @xcite ( e.g. , higher incomes and levels of creative activities ) , these results show that larger and urbanized cities also have a dark side , namely , higher levels of violence .",
    "interestingly , the effect is exactly the opposite in the number of suicide events , which typically follow a sublinear scaling with population , with an allometric exponent value that varies in the range between 0.78 and 0.95 .",
    "such a result led us to the conclusion that a suicide event should not be taken as an isolated individual decision .",
    "this is consistent with the conceptual framework put forward by durkheim @xcite , under which suicides need to be treated as social facts , actually affected by complex human relations .",
    "the sublinear behavior found can be even considered as a counter - intuitive result .",
    "the more common and straightforward view would be to associate the suicide causes uniquely to a health condition of psychological or mental illness that could nevertheless be strongly linked to external urban factors .",
    "for instance , traffic jams , pollution , and stressful jobs all create a harmful environment for the population . however , the fact that we found sublinearity , namely , that the number of suicides is disproportionately small for larger cities , discloses an entirely different perspective .",
    "we conjecture that this property can be intimately related with an `` emotional epidemy '' as previously hypothesized in ref .",
    "this phenomenon can explain the systematic attenuation through the social network of contagious emotions states of potentially suicidal individuals .",
    "we thank the brazilian agencies cnpq , capes , funcap and finep , the funcap / cnpq pronex grant , and the national institute of science and technology for complex systems in brazil for financial support .",
    "bettencourt , l. m. , lobo , j. , helbing , d. , khnert , c. , & west , g. b. ( 2007 ) .",
    "growth , innovation , scaling , and the pace of life in cities .",
    "proceedings of the national academy of sciences , 104(17 ) , 73017306 .",
    "changizi , m. a. , mcdannald , m. a. , & widders , d. ( 2002 ) .",
    "scaling of differentiation in networks : nervous systems , organisms , ant colonies , ecosystems , businesses , universities , cities , electronic circuits , and legos .",
    "journal of theoretical biology , 218(2 ) , 215 - 237 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> certain currents in sociology consider society as being composed of autonomous individuals with independent psychologies . </S>",
    "<S> others , however , deem our actions as strongly influenced by the accepted standards of social behavior . </S>",
    "<S> the later view was central to the positivist conception of society when in 1887 mile durkheim published his monograph _ suicide _ @xcite . by treating the suicide as a social fact </S>",
    "<S> , durkheim envisaged that suicide rates should be determined by the connections ( or the lack of them ) between people and society . under the same framework , durkheim considered that crime is bound up with the fundamental conditions of all social life and serves a social function . in this sense , and regardless of its extremely deviant nature , crime events are somehow capable to release certain social tensions and so have a purging effect in society . </S>",
    "<S> the social effect on the occurrence of homicides has been previously substantiated @xcite , and confirmed here , in terms of a superlinear scaling relation : by doubling the population of a brazilian city results in an average increment of @xmath0 in the number of homicides , rather than the expected isometric increase of @xmath1 , as found , for example , for the mortality due to car crashes . here </S>",
    "<S> we present statistical signs of the social influence on the suicide occurrence in cities . differently from homicides ( superlinear ) and fatal events in car crashes ( isometric ) , </S>",
    "<S> we find sublinear scaling behavior between the number of suicides and city population , with allometric power - law exponents , @xmath2 and @xmath3 , for all cities in brazil and us , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> the fact that the frequency of suicides is disproportionately small for larger cities reveals a surprisingly beneficial aspect of living and interacting in larger and more complex social networks . </S>"
  ]
}