{
  "article_text": [
    "since the discovery of the first extrasolar planet in 1995 ( mayor & queloz , 1995 ) there has been a surge in research in planetary science and in the detection of new planets , with the harps survey ( mayor et al . , 2003 ) and nasa s _ kepler _ mission leading the field .",
    "the high number of detected and candidate planets allows for statistical studies and several trends have emerged , which are shared among both the harps and kepler data ( figuera et al . , 2012 ) .",
    "some of these include :    * approximately half of all solar - type stars contain planets with a projected mass @xmath4  earth masses ( @xmath5 ) ( borucki et al .",
    ", 2011 ; mayor et al . , 2011 ; chiang & laughlin , 2013 ) , where @xmath6 is the planet s mass , and @xmath7 is the angle between the planet s orbit and the observer . * planets with a short orbital period tend to be of low ( @xmath8  @xmath5 ) mass ( mayor et al . , 2011 ; batalha et al . ,",
    "most of these have radii @xmath9 $ ]  earth radii ( @xmath10 ) and masses between earth s and neptune s .",
    "these planets are often referred to as super earths .",
    "in contrast , hot jupiters are rare ( mayor et al . , 2011 ) .",
    "* the number of planets increases with decreasing mass and/or radius ( howard et al . , 2010 ; howard et al . , 2012 ) and",
    "approximately 23% of stars have earth - like close - in planets with periods @xmath11  days ( d ) .",
    "* approximately 73% of low - mass planets with periods shorter than 100  d reside in multiple systems ( mayor et al .",
    ", 2011 ; fang & margot , 2012 ) , with only 26% of these multiples containing a gas giant ( mayor et al . , 2011 ) .",
    "this suggests that super earths form in clusters close to the parent star and are isolated from potential giant planets in the system .",
    "* systems of multiple super earths on short periods tend to be compact ( fang & margot , 2012 ; chiang & laughlin , 2013 ) and have low ( @xmath12 ) mutual inclinations ( fang & margot , 2012 ; tremaine & dong , 2012 ) and most likely also low ( @xmath13 ) eccentricities ( mayor et al . , 2011 ; wu & lithwick , 2013 ) . *",
    "the period distribution is more or less random with some excesses just slight of the 3:2 and 2:1 mean motion resonances ( fabrycky et al . , 2012 ) .",
    "the near - resonance of some pairs has been attributed to tidal decay ( batygin & morbidelli , 2013 ; lithwick & wu , 2012 ) , though petrovitch et al .",
    "( 2013 ) proposed an alternative scenario based on planet growth . *",
    "although still actively debated , the period distribution of exoplanets with short ( @xmath14  d ) periods suggests an in - situ formation scenario ( raymond et al . , 2008 ; hansen & murray , 2012 ; chiang & laughlin , 2013 ) rather than formation farther out followed by migration ( lopez et al .",
    ", 2012 ; kley & nelson , 2012 ; rein , 2012 ) .",
    "an intermediate scenario in which planetary embryos migrate inwards followed by a giant impact stage ( ida & lin , 2010 ) may also work . *",
    "the mutual spacing of most of these super earths is between 5 to 30 hill radii ( lissauer et al . , 2011 ; fabrycky et al . , 2012 ) , which encompasses the spacing between the giant planets ( 12 ) and terrestrial planets ( 40 )",
    "however , their proximity to the star requires their orbits to be dynamically cold to prevent orbit crossing . *",
    "the kepler catalogue contains a few confirmed super earth planets in the habitable zone of their parent stars , with a further 20 candidates ( batalha et al . , 2013 ) .",
    "the habitable zone ( hz ) is the region where radiation received by the planet from the star is enough for it to sustain liquid water under sufficient atmospheric pressure ( kasting et al . , 1993 ; kaltenegger & sasselov , 2011 ) .",
    "thus , it seems the super earth population resembles the regular satellite populations of the giant planets : both show a typical mass ratio of @xmath15 and regularly spaced , dynamically cold orbits .",
    "some are far enough out to be in the habitable zone .",
    "+ the regularity of the orbits and tight spacing provide a formidable challenge to theorists of planet formation and dynamicists alike . if the best determined orbits are not entirely circular determining whether or not these systems are dynamically stable and fall within the observational uncertainties is challenging .",
    "the aim of this study is to analyse the stability of one such compact super earth system : hd 40307 .",
    "this system is interesting because one planet , hd 40307 g , may be in the habitable zone .",
    "therefore we also study how the dynamics of the whole system affects the long - term habitability of planet g. + the term ` habitable ' encompasses many things , however , thus we only focus on the long - term variations in the insolation caused by the dynamics of the whole system and the solid body response of planet g. on earth , in addition to stellar activity , geological activity and temperature regulation through the carbonate - silicate cycle ( williams & kasting , 1997 ) , the long - term climate is driven externally by the milankovi cycles ( milankovi , 1941 ) .",
    "earth s orbit is perturbed by other planets , causing quasi - periodic variations in eccentricity and inclination on a time scale of 100  kyr .",
    "the earth s obliquity is also affected and oscillates on a time scale of 41  kyr ( e.g. laskar et al . , 1993 ) .",
    "the combined effect of the variations in eccentricity , obliquity and precession angle are the milankovi cycles .",
    "those periods of the milankovi cycles are much shorter than the relaxation time of the carbonate - silicate feedback mechanism . + the perturbations of other planets cause these changes and so influence the insolation accordingly , driving the ice ages on the earth ( imbrie & imbrie , 1980 ) .",
    "small variations in eccentricity and obliquity most likely yield stable and favourable conditions for habitability ( atobe et al . , 2004 ;",
    "brasser et al . , 2013 ) .",
    "+ we want to know what are the dynamical properties of close super earth systems and how dynamics affects the habitability of potentially habitable planets .",
    "this paper is a proof of concept on how to determine the dynamical stability of a compact super earth system , and how the long - term insolation variation of any planets in the habitable zone depends on the dynamics of the whole system .",
    "other effects , such as a general circulation model ( gcm ) of the planet , and affects of atmospheric heat transport and buffering , ice - albedo feedback , carbon dioxide cloud formation , are not a part of this study but will be part of future projects . + this paper is organised as follows .",
    "the next section contains an overview of the hd 40307 planetary system . in section 3",
    "we describe our numerical methods . in section 4",
    "we summarise the theory of how orbital perturbations affect the obliquity and the black - body equilibrium temperature of the planet .",
    "this is followed by our results in section 5 .",
    "section 6 focuses on the long - term climate cycles and section 7 is reserved for a discussion .",
    "we present a summary and conclusions in section 8 .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "in this section we produce maps of the obliquity range , precession frequency , insolation and other quantities on planet g. the methods were described in sections  3 and  4 : we take the output from a stable configuration that was integrated for 1  myr and used as input to numerically integrate the equations of the obliquity and precession evolution .",
    "we have no prior knowledge of the rotation rate of planet g nor its @xmath16 moment , so we decided to scale these from earth s values assuming that the fluid love numbers are the same .",
    "we set @xmath16 equal to venus value for rotation periods longer than 13  days .",
    "we display the magnitude of the obliquity oscillations as a function of rotation period and initial obliquity in fig .",
    "[ oamp ] . for rotation periods shorter than 1.5  days , longer than 2 days and low obliquities , the oscillation amplitude is generally small i.e. less than 5@xmath17 .",
    "the oscillation period is generally of the order of 20  kyr or longer .",
    "a similar evolution is observed at long rotation periods and high obliquities .",
    "however , the situation changes dramatically in a narrow band originating from ( 0.25 , 85 ) and reaching all the way down to ( 1.5,0 ) . here",
    "the precession of the spin pole of planet g is in resonance with the @xmath18 inclination eigenfrequency i.e. @xmath19 , and the planet is in a cassini state ( colombo , 1966 ) , specifically cassini state 2 . inside cassini state 2",
    "the obliquity oscillates with large amplitude . for obliquities close to zero ,",
    "the planet is in cassini state 1 , such as mercury ( e.g. correia & laskar , 2010 ) . for planet",
    "g the only substantial forcing on the obliquity is caused by the @xmath20 term ( which is the free inclination @xmath21 ) . for fig .  [ oamp ]",
    "it was @xmath22 .",
    "the obliquity at which the states occur are approximately given by ( ward & hamilton , 2004 )    @xmath23    the first two roots correspond to states 1 and 3 ( state 3 is retrograde ) , while the second formula approximates states 2 and 4 .",
    "note that states 1 and 4 do not exist when @xmath24 , corresponding to @xmath25  @xmath26/yr , with a matching critical obliquity @xmath27 i.e. @xmath28 .",
    "for the parameters we chose states 1 and 4 disappear when the rotation period is nearly 1.5 days , which matches fig .",
    "[ oamp ] above .",
    "+      how do these variations in obliquity affect the yearly insolation and temperature at the poles ?",
    "we display the results in the following figures . in the top - left panel of fig .",
    "[ qyamp ] we display the average yearly insolation in watts per square metre at the north pole as a function of the rotation period ( horizontal ) and initial obliquity ( vertical ) .",
    "the initial precession angle was set to @xmath29 .",
    "the scale is displayed by the vertical bar .",
    "the region where large excursions in the obliquity occur are mirrored in this figure .",
    "the top - right panel shows contours of the standard deviation of the insolation at the north pole .",
    "these contours follow those of the obliquity : the yearly - averaged insolation only depends on the obliquity .",
    "the bottom - left panel displays the average black - body temperature at the north pole in kelvin obtained from equation ( [ tave ] ) , while the bottom - right shows the standard deviation of the black - body temperature range .",
    "thus for obliquities above 30@xmath17 , the average north pole black - body temperature is between 125  k and 150  k but the standard deviation of the long - term temperature range is about 20  k , so the expected long - term peak - to - peak changes could have amplitudes of up to 50  k. the long - term insolation variations are @xmath3020  w unless the planet is in the cassini state .",
    "+    how does the insolation and black - body temperature on planet g compare to earth s ?",
    "we created a plot of the yearly insolation at the north pole for planet g and earth ( top row ) and their black - body temperatures ( bottom row ) .",
    "we fixed the initial obliquity of planet g at 25@xmath17 .",
    "the rotation period was 3  d for the left column and 1.5  d for the middle column , inside the cassini state .",
    "+ in the first case , the amplitude of the insolation variation is comparable to that of earth , but the periodicities are very different : for earth the dominant periodicity is 41  kyr , with modulations of 39  kyr and 53  kyr , while for planet g the period is approximately 102  kyr ( frequency @xmath31  @xmath26/yr ) .",
    "the situation is different for the evolution of the black - body temperature : the periodicity for planet g is 40  kyr caused by precession ( frequency @xmath32  @xmath26/yr ) , with the 102  kyr modulation on top . for the earth",
    "the precession component is 23  kyr , modulated by obliquity at 41  kyr .",
    "however , there is a striking difference between the left top and bottom panels . while for both planet g and earth the annual average polar insulation is similar and shows little variation ,",
    "the same can not be said for the polar black - body temperature . for earth",
    "this shows a 10  k variation on long time scales  seasonal variations are not taken into account  but for planet g the range is 50  k ! if earth s 10  k variations can cause regular ice ages , the effect on planet g appears much more enhanced and would likely occur on a similar time scale .",
    "the insolation variation on planet g is substantially different from earth s because of its high eccentricity .",
    "indeed , the temperature deviations are mostly precession driven , while for earth these are driven both by precession and obliquity because the amplitude of eccentricity oscillations is not much larger than the obliquity oscillations .",
    "+ when the rotation period of planet g is 1.5  d and the planet is in the cassini state , the situation is changed dramatically : its obliquity oscillates with a large ( @xmath33 ) amplitude and period 450  kyr .",
    "the polar insolation now varies by a factor of 10 and the polar black - body temperature variations are also much larger .",
    "the short - period variations are caused by the precession , as they were in the 3  d rotation case , but the long - periodic variation is caused by the obliquity .",
    "the largest difference with the 3  d rotation case is the long - term variation in the polar insolation .",
    "if the climate change is primarily driven by changes in polar insolation rather than temperature variations then the 1.5  d rotation case could cause more extreme climate variations . as we argued in section  [ theory ] , during periods of high obliquity",
    "the equator becomes colder than the pole , which could cause a dramatic shift in ice deposits from the poles to the equator ( as happens on mars ; schorghofer , 2007 ) .",
    "in addition , the high - obliquity causes the polar circles to be near the equator and the tropics of ` cancer ' and ` capricorn ' to be near the pole , causing rapid and extreme seasonal temperature variations . once again taking mars as an example ,",
    "its extreme obliquity variations inhibit the climate s stability because of the melting and freezing of the polar caps , and the exchange of ice between the poles and the equator ( schorghofer , 2007 ) .",
    "thus we cautiously argue against the 1.5  d case being suitable for habitability unless the planet happens to be at the exact cassini state equilibrium where the obliquity is constant .",
    "+ so far we have only analysed the variation in insolation for a rotation period of 3  d and 1.5  d i.e. outside and inside the cassini state .",
    "there is also a domain of shorter rotation periods . for these shorter rotation periods",
    "the climate cycles occur at a faster pace .",
    "for example , when the rotation period is just 12  h the precession periodicity approaches 10  kyr and the obliquity variations occur on a time scale of 20  kyr .",
    "in the previous sections we analysed the dynamical stability of the hd 40307 super earth system using numerical methods .",
    "we followed this up with a detailed dynamical study on the precession , obliquity and insolation variations on planet g. several of our results require further elaboration .",
    "+ first we discuss our methods . in this study",
    "we did not vary the masses of the planets for two reasons .",
    "first , changing the masses would have added an extra dimension to our numerical simulations and the parameter space would have pushed the limits of our computational resources .",
    "second , the stability of the system depends on a low power of the planetary masses ( chambers , 1996 ; see section  2 ) . the only quantity that depends linear on the masses",
    "are the precession frequencies .",
    "the uncertainty in the masses are less than factors of two and thus these quantities change by a similar amount .",
    "similarly , it has been estimated that the @xmath34 effect typically increases the masses by an amount lower than 20% ( tremaine & dong , 2012 ) , which is also not enough to cause substantial changes in the dynamics .",
    "thus we decided to use the nominal masses for this study .",
    "+ the next topic pertains to the inclinations of the planets .",
    "the rv data typically are unable to constrain the mutual inclinations of the system , unless it has reached a fixed point through tides ( batygin & laughin , 2011 ) .",
    "that is likely not the case here , so we introduced the inclinations by hand as explained in section  [ theory ] based on the method of fang & margot ( 2012 ) .",
    "they demonstrated that their rayleigh distribution matched well with the kepler super earth systems .",
    "we could have chosen to use a different distribution which would probably have worked just as well , but this choice would have required additional justification .",
    "we caution against increasing the maximum inclination much above @xmath35 , because this would violate constraints that we have from planet formation theories .",
    "it would also add a substantial amount of angular momentum deficit to the system which could be exchanged with eccentricity and ultimately make the system less stable ( laskar , 1997 ) .",
    "+ the possible presence of additional planets also requires some elaboration . as we said in section  5 a saturn - mass planet on an eccentric orbit within 2  au of",
    "the star is able to significantly perturb planet g. a low - eccentricity saturn - mass planet will have little to no effect .",
    "but what about other planets beyond 3  au , especially gas giants just like in our solar system ?",
    "the distant spacing of such gas giant planets would cause them to have little dynamical effect on planet g and the planets inside of it , unless one of the eigenfrequencies of these hypothetical gas giants is commensurate with @xmath36 ( or @xmath18 ) .",
    "such a secular resonance would increase planet g s eccentricity to a high value and could make it cross the orbits of the inner 5 planets .",
    "this would require a coincidence between the eigenfrequencies which is unlikely to be the case .",
    "thus we suggest that the addition of gas giant planets beyond 3  au does not pose a large risk to the dynamical stability of planet g and the innermost planets .",
    "+ the next issue that warrants discussion is the uncertainties in the parameters .",
    "the largest uncertainties are in the radius and rotation period of planet g. both of these directly affect the precession period . increasing the precession period by a factor of two",
    "implies an increase in the planetary radius by 25% , larger than the errors presented in sotin et al .",
    "( 2007 ) . concerning the rotation period ,",
    "we have demonstrated in section  2 that if planet g formed rotating quickly , it will have most likely remained so",
    ". only if it formed with a long rotation period could it be despun .",
    "thus our estimates of a factor of two uncertainty in @xmath37 is probable .",
    "increasing @xmath37 by a factor of two lowers the precession and obliquity oscillation periods by a similar amount , reducing them from 40  kyr to 20  kyr and from 102  kyr to 51  kyr at a 3  d rotation period .",
    "all of these are comparable to earth s forcing frequencies and our conclusions remain the same .",
    "+ we now turn to the habitability of planet g. due to a lack of information about its interior and exterior we made certain assumptions , based on recent results in the literature , about how the planet s obliquity would respond to orbital forcing . with no knowledge about oceans or the atmosphere we can only investigate the long - term behaviour of the insolation and black - body temperature at a given latitude , either their yearly - averaged values or those at summer solstice and",
    "compare them with earth s .",
    "for mathematical simplicity we took the values at the north pole .",
    "we find that the high eccentricity and quick precession of planet g because of its proximity to the star cause substantial changes in polar black - body temperature on a time scale of up to a few tens of thousands of years . for rotation periods of 1.5 days",
    "the obliquity displays large - amplitude oscillations with long period which also dramatically affect the climate . +",
    "a third question pertains to what our results imply . using the nominal eccentricity of planet g , and reasonable assumptions about its @xmath16 moment , outside of the cassini state its axial",
    "precession is comparable to earth s and the polar black - body temperature varies on time scales of @xmath38  kyr if the rotation period is a few days , and shorter time scales for a shorter rotation period . given that the magnitude of these black - body temperature variations are much larger than earth s , we speculate that this causes equally drastic but periodic changes in the climate , with the polar regions being affected much more strongly than the tropics .",
    "the most likely consequences depend on the planet s geography and atmosphere . for a dry planet such as mars , assuming a thin atmosphere , the most severe effect is the reappearance and disappearance of the polar ice caps and high and low obliquity . for an ocean planet a similar effect may occur .",
    "it has been suggested that for planet g to have a temperature similar to earth s it requires a 10  bar carbon dioxide atmosphere ( tian , 2013 ) .",
    "such a thick atmosphere would most likely buffet the insolation variations induced by planetary perturbations because it has much more efficient heat transport than earth s thin atmosphere .",
    "we investigated the dynamical stability of the hd 40307 planetary system with the aid of numerical simulations . once a stable solution",
    "was found it was used to determine the long - term insolation variation of planet g , which is situated in the habitable zone of the star .",
    "we found that the most stable orbital solution of the whole system requires a 2.6@xmath3 increase in the period of planet e. this places planet e outside of a 3:2 mean - motion resonance with planet f. it further requires a reduction in its eccentricity of 1.3@xmath3 .",
    "+ the high eccentricity of planet b is the result of forcing from the other planets , mostly from planet c. its own eccentricity eigenmode is most likely damped by tides and thus it is in apsidal alignment with planet c. the most stable configuration of the system requires some further reduction in the eccentricities of planets b and d. it is 3.1@xmath3 from the nominal solution with a reduced @xmath39 .",
    "+ the milankovi cycles on planet g manifest themselves with a period similar to those on earth , but the polar black - body temperature variations are much more intense than on earth because of planet g s high eccentricity . for this reason",
    "we cautiously conclude that planet g may not be very habitable at high latitudes when the obliquity is low , thereby reducing its overall habitability .",
    "the high eccentricity could cause regular , intense ice ages and severe ocean level changes on a wet planet such as earth and regular disappearance and reappearance of dry polar ice caps such as on mars . while the periodicities are uncertain by factors of a few , the variation in the insolation is not and thus the overall conclusion remains the same .",
    "if planet g formed with a fast rotation through a giant impact stage , the rotation likely would have remained fast , causing rapid precession and short periods between ice ages , as well as reducing heat transport from warmer to cooler regions ( williams , 1988 ) .",
    "we thank mikko tuomi for stimulating discussions and for sharing the harps - terra radial velocity data of hd 40307 .",
    "we thank sylvio ferraz - mello for discussions and the sharing of software to compare the simulations and the radial velocity data .",
    "last , and most importantly , we are deeply grateful to a tough and fair anonymous reviewer for his / her patience and very valuable feedback that improved this work substantially .",
    "rb thanks si and ek for their hospitality during several trips to tokyo . the condor software program ( htcondor )",
    "was developed by the condor team at the computer sciences department of the university of wisconsin - madison .",
    "all rights , title , and interest in htcondor are owned by the condor team ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> harps and _ kepler _ results indicate that half of solar - type stars host planets with periods @xmath0  d and masses @xmath1  @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> these super earth systems are compact and dynamically cold . here </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the stability of the super earth system around the k - dwarf hd40307 . </S>",
    "<S> it could host up to six planets , with one in the habitable zone . </S>",
    "<S> we analyse the system s stability using numerical simulations from initial conditions within the observational uncertainties . </S>",
    "<S> the most stable solution deviates 3.1@xmath3 from the published value , with planets e and f not in resonance and planets b and c apsidally aligned . </S>",
    "<S> we study the habitability of the outer planet through the yearly - averaged insolation and black - body temperature at the pole . </S>",
    "<S> both undergo large variations because of its high eccentricity and are much more intense than on earth . </S>",
    "<S> the insolation variations are precession dominated with periods of 40  kyr and 102  kyr for precession and obliquity if the rotation period is 3  d. a rotation period of about 1.5  d could cause extreme obliquity variations because of capture in a cassini state . for faster rotation rates the periods converge to 10  kyr and 20  kyr </S>",
    "<S> . the large uncertainty in the precession period does not change the overall outcome .    </S>",
    "<S> planets and satellites : general ; planets and satellites : dynamical evolution and stability ; planets and satellites : formation </S>"
  ]
}