{
  "article_text": [
    "galactic open clusters are an important means of calibrating the absolute magnitude of cepheids ( an , terndrup , and pinsonneault 2007 ; feast and walker 1987 ; turner and burke 2002 ) .",
    "recently anderson , eyer , mowlavi ( 2013 , hereafter aem ) made an all - sky survey of possible linkages between cepheids and parent clusters based on position , velocity , distance , abundance and age .",
    "they found a highly probable connection between the cepheid s mus and the sparse cluster ascc 69 = [ kpr2005 ] 69 ( kharchenko , et al .",
    "2005 )    the decrease in x - ray activity in low mass stars as they age and spin down is well known ( pallavicini et al . , 1981 ) .",
    "this means that x - ray activity provides an excellent discriminant between young stars and the old field population .",
    "physical companions of cepheids must be young , and hence x - ray bright .",
    "we have used this approach to confirm possible resolved companions of cepheids ( evans , et al .",
    "2013 ; evans , et al .",
    "2014 in preparation ) identified in a hubble space telescope ( hst ) wide field camera 3 ( wfc3 ) survey of 69 bright cepheids . in this study , we use x - rays to identify low mass members of the cluster .",
    "identification of low mass stars as cluster members is usually plagued by contamination of old field stars of similar colors , which limits the value of this mass range in , for instance , determining the distance to the cluster and studying the cluster population .",
    "as part of the hst companion program , we observed the cepheid s mus with the xmm - newton satellite ( obsid : 0691030201 , ao  11 ) on january 5th 2013 for a total of 32.6 ksec with a 30 field of view .",
    "x - ray observations of the s mus system itself will be discussed in a paper in preparation . s  mus lies outside the cluster radius of ascc  69 as listed in the catalog of kharchenko , et al .",
    "( 2005 ) but within two cluster radii .",
    "however , aem remark that because the cluster is sparse , neither the center nor the radius is well defined .    because aem found s mus to be a highly probable member of the cluster ascc 69 , we investigated the x - ray sources in the entire xmm image to see if there are any likely low mass cluster members .",
    "source detection was performed in the same way as for the @xmath0 per cluster ( pillitteri , et al .",
    "x - ray sources were then matched with 2mass photometry ( cutri , et al .",
    "this filters the sources to eliminate background agn , which have much fainter v magnitudes for a given x - ray flux than stars .",
    "stars , on the other hand , at the distance of s mus ( 789 pc , evans , et al .",
    "2013 ) from the leavitt period@xmath1luminosity law ( benedict et al . , 2007 ) would be listed in the 2mass catalog well into spectral class m. only 2mass sources with class aaa photometry have been included , which means the errors in j and k are @xmath2 0.10 mag .",
    "fig 1 shows the results in a plot of j vs. ( j - k ) for the x - ray sources . as indicated by the error bars , the main uncertainties are in the colors .",
    "the isochrone from siess is overplotted for 30 myr and solar abundance .",
    "the discussion of bono , et al .",
    "( 2005 ) shows that s mus ( p = 9.65@xmath3 ) has an age between 30 and 50 myr .",
    "the isochrone ( solid line ) has been shifted to the distance of the cepheid , with reddening and a@xmath4 of the cepheid [ e(b - v ) = 0.21 mag ; evans et al 2013 ; e(j - k ) = 0.10 ] . to illustrate the expected location of cluster stars ,",
    "a dashed line shows the isochrone shifted by -0.8 mag to account for the binary sequence and + 0.2 to allow for errors in j - k .",
    "a second dashed line has been shifted -0.2 in j - k .",
    "these lines define four regions from left to right : a. background objects ; b. a small region immediately behind / below the cluster sequence ; c. the cluster sequence ; and d. foreground objects .",
    "the following number of stars are found in these regions : a. background : 8 ; b. below the cluster sequence : 2 ; c. the cluster sequence : 19 ; and d. above / foreground : 3 . thus , an over density of likely cluster members is evident .",
    "isochrone for 30 myr at the distance and with the reddening of s mus is shown ( solid line ) .",
    "cluster members are expected to lie below the upper dashed line which is 0.8 mag above ( binaries ) and 0.2 mag redder ( errors ) than the isochrone .",
    "the lower dashed line is 0.2 mag bluer than the isochrone , below which background stars would be found .",
    "[ fig1 ] ]    table 1 lists the sources considered to be young stars in the cluster region in fig .",
    "1 , that is stars which are x - ray sources and have the j and k appropriate for a 30 myr young cluster at the distance of the cepheid .",
    "cols 1 and 2 list the source number and the source number in the original detection list respectively .",
    "cols 35 list the 2mass identification number and the right ascension and declination of the x - ray sources .",
    "cols 6 - 9 list the 2mass photometry , j , h , k together with their errors , and j - k .",
    "the net count rate ( net counts ksec@xmath5 ; col 10 ) is from the detection routine .",
    "the median x - ray energy in kev is in col 11 .",
    "we have used _ pimms _ to derive a conversion factor from the count rate to flux for a 1-t apec spectrum with kt = 1.1 kev and n@xmath6 = 1.0 x 10@xmath7 , appropriate for the e(b - v ) .",
    "luminosities have been computed for the fluxes for the distance of the cepheid ( 789 pc ) .",
    "these are provided in cols 12 and 13 respectively . the final column",
    "( 14 ) provides the separation between the x - ray source and the 2mass source .",
    "we have examined the x - ray parameters of the probable cluster members to see if they are consistent with stellar coronal sources .",
    "median energies are typically in the range of 1 to 2 kev , which is reasonable for young stellar sources ( e.g. feigelson , et al .",
    "stars from figure 1 which fall outside the cluster band have similar median energies , indicating that they may also be stars , but not spatially coincident with the cluster . a typical median absolute deviation ( mad )",
    "only 4 of the sources have fewer than 30 counts . for the others ,",
    "using gaussian statistics and a typical source count of 50 counts , the uncertainty in the median energy is estimated to be 0.1 kev .    in order to have a consistent estimate of the character of the sources , we have used median energies to provide information about all the sources which are probable low - mass cluster members ( table 1 ) .",
    "two of the sources have enough counts to fit a spectrum , # 60 ( 273 counts ) , and # 72 ( 441 counts ) .",
    "the next strongest source has only half as many counts ( # 7 137 counts ) and all the rest of the sources have fewer than 100 counts .",
    "for the two strong sources ( # 60 and # 72 ) the results of the spectral fitting are as follows .",
    "for source 60 , the n@xmath6 , kt , and log flux ( unabsorbed ) are 1.3 @xmath8 10@xmath7 , 0.93 kev , and -13.56 ( ergs @xmath9 s@xmath5 ) .",
    "for source 72 , they are 1.8 @xmath8 10@xmath7 , 1.43 kev , and -13.16 ( ergs @xmath9 s@xmath5 ) .",
    "these are similar to the n@xmath6 derived from e(b - v ) , and the values for kt and log flux listed in table 1 .",
    "these values would be expected for stellar coronal sources rather than background agn .",
    "the width of the probable cluster band in fig . 1 implies a significant population of binaries .",
    "in addition we note that for m25 , the cluster which contains the cepheid u sgr ( majaess , et al .",
    "2013 ) , the main sequence in the j(j - h ) cmd is markedly wider than that in the v(b - v ) cmd .",
    "there may also be a significant width to the j(j - k ) cmd for the @xmath0 per cluster , which is similar in age to cepheids ( pillitteri , et al .",
    "this points to complexity in interpreting the cluster data , which is affected by the accruacy of photometry , the population of binaries , a spread in ages or even possibly the existance of debris disks ( which would be more prominent in infrared colors ) . it would be premature to draw conclusions from the data in fig .",
    "1 on this topic , but will be discussed in a further paper .",
    "the exposure is comparatively shallow for sources @xmath10  pc away , so only the brightest part of the x - ray luminosity distribution will be sampled .",
    "the x - ray luminosities ( col 13 ) are reasonable for the brightest stellar sources at the age of the cluster ( eg .",
    "pillitteri et al , 2013 ; preibisch and feigelson 2005 ) .",
    "we also compare the luminosities of the cluster stars with the putative background stars .",
    "the luminosities of the stars below the lower dashed line in fig . 1 ( region a using the distance of the cluster , which is , of course , an underestimate ) typically appear to have @xmath11 @xmath2 30 ergs sec@xmath5 while those of the cluster members ( col 13 ) spread to significantly brighter luminosities .",
    "again , this is appropriate for stars actually more distant than the cluster .",
    "future work includes a comparison of fig .",
    "1 with the low - mass members of other clusters associated with cepheids from both new observations and archival data , particularly pertaining to the width of the main sequence band . included in this more extensive study",
    "will be the data in the current study and for m25 , as well as an additional cluster observation that has been approved for xmm , permitting a discussion with a wider scope .",
    "an xmm - newton observation centered on the cepheid s mus identifies a concentration of 19 x - ray sources with 2mass magnitudes appropriate for a 30 myr cluster at the distance of the cepheid .",
    "these are low mass stars which are likely cluster members , supporting the identity of the sparse cluster ascc 69 .",
    "the paper demonstrates the value of using x - ray observations to identify young x - ray active low - mass cluster candidates from a large number of older stars in the field .",
    "confirmation of the cluster strengthens the association of s mus with the cluster .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for comments which improved the presentation of the paper .",
    "support for this work was also provided from the chandra x - ray center nasa contract nas8 - 03060 and by hst grant go-12215.01-a .",
    "vizier and simbad were used in the preparation of this study ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the galactic cepheid s muscae has recently been added to the important list of cepheids linked to open clusters , in this case the sparse young cluster ascc 69 . </S>",
    "<S> low - mass members of a young cluster are expected to have rapid rotation and x - ray activity , making x - ray emission an excellent way to discriminate them from old field stars . </S>",
    "<S> we have made an xmm - newton observation centered on s mus and identified ( table 1 ) a population of x - ray sources whose near - ir 2mass counterparts lie at locations in the j , ( j - k ) color - magnitude diagram consistent with cluster membership at the distance of s mus . </S>",
    "<S> their median energy and x - ray luminosity are consistent with young cluster members as distinct from field stars . </S>",
    "<S> these strengthen the association of s mus with the young cluster , making it a potential leavitt law ( period - luminosity relation ) calibrator . </S>"
  ]
}