{
  "article_text": [
    "an important remaining problem in astrophysics is finding the links between supernovae ( sn ) and progenitor stars . for core - collapse sn",
    "it is accepted that they arise from massive stars .",
    "of particular interest is the origin of hydrogen - deficient sn ( types ib and ic ) , where the mechanism to remove or deplete the outer hydrogen envelope is not well determined .",
    "the most appealing alternatives are strong stellar winds in high - mass massive stars ( @xmath4 ) and mass transfer in close binary systems ( see @xcite for a recent review ) . which is the dominant path for this type of sn is still unclear and the answer depends on performing detailed studies of well - observed objects .",
    "a young type ib sn ( he - rich , h - deficient ) , iptf13bvn , was discovered by the palomar transient factory on 2013 june 16 in the nearby galaxy ngc  5806 .",
    "using multi - band pre - explosion images from hst , a source was identified ( within the @xmath5 error box of the sn location ) as the possible progenitor @xcite .",
    "the luminosity and colors of the progenitor candidate are consistent with some wolf - rayet stars @xcite , one of the proposed progenitors of h - deficient sne . based on single stellar evolution models",
    ", @xcite found that a wolf - rayet star with zero age main sequence ( zams ) mass of 3135 m@xmath6 was able to reproduce the observed pre - sn photometry . according to their model , at the moment of the explosion the star had a mass of 11 @xmath1 .",
    "the search for progenitor stars in deep pre - explosion images is a powerful , direct approach to understand the origin of sne and it provides a critical test for stellar evolution models . using this technique it was possible to confirm that type ii - p sne arise from the explosion of red supergiant stars @xcite .",
    "but so far no firm progenitor identification has been reported for h - deficient sne @xcite .",
    "iptf13bvn may be the first case in its class , thus allowing us for the first time to directly link a sn  ib with its progenitor .    in most cases",
    ", either because the sn is too distant or simply due to lacking pre - supernova images , other methods are required to infer progenitor properties .",
    "one such method is the hydrodynamical modeling of sn observations .",
    "it is a well - known fact that the morphology of the light curve ( lc ) is sensitive to the physical characteristics of the progenitor ( e.g. see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "therefore , modeling of the lc , ideally combined with photospheric velocities or spectra , provides a useful way to constrain progenitor properties such as mass and radius , as well as explosion parameters ( explosion energy and production of radioactive material ) .",
    "this methodology is particularly powerful when combined with stellar evolution calculations .",
    "a recent example of the predictability of this technique can be seen in our analysis of the type  iib sn  2011dh @xcite , which allowed us to provide a self - consistent explanation of the progenitor nature that was later confirmed @xcite .",
    "here we use the same approach to address the problem of the progenitor of iptf13bvn .    the observational material used in this work is briefly described in   [ sec : data ] . in   [ sec : hydro ] we present our hydrodynamical modeling of iptf13bvn with focus on determining the mass and size of the progenitor .",
    "in   [ sec : binary ] we further analyze the origin of iptf13bvn and of the pre - explosion object , and we propose an interacting binary progenitor .",
    "the range of allowed binary models is discussed in ",
    "[ sec : companion ] , where we also predict the feasibility of detecting of the companion star in future observations . in ",
    "[ sec : conclusion ] we present the main conclusions of this work .",
    "we computed the observed bolometric lc of iptf13bvn based on @xmath7 photometry obtained by @xcite , and adopting bolometric corrections derived for core - collapse sne by @xcite .",
    "the bolometric corrections were based on @xmath8 colors , although other calibrations produced compatible results . to correct colors and magnitudes to intrinsic values",
    ", we adopted a milky - way reddening of @xmath9 mag from the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) @xcite . for estimating reddening in the host galaxy we compared the milky - way reddening - corrected @xmath8 colors with an intrinsic - color law derived from a sample of se sne observed by the carnegie supernova project @xcite .",
    "the average difference with the intrinsic colors , given in the interval between @xmath10-band maximum light and 20 days after , yielded a color excess of @xmath11 mag .",
    "we further checked this color excess with measurements of the equivalent width of the  d lines in the spectra of iptf13bvn . with a measured @xmath12   and adopting the relations between @xmath13 and color excess given by @xcite",
    ", we obtained @xmath14 mag or @xmath15 mag , depending on the adopted relation .",
    "these values can be interpreted as an interval of valid solutions given the dispersion of the data used to derive the relations .",
    "we consider the estimate obtained from the @xmath8 colors to be more robust and the result to be confirmed by the  d measurements .",
    "we thus adopted @xmath11 mag to correct the sn observations .",
    "we employed the same value for the pre - sn observations under the assumption that the pre - explosion object was affected by the same amount of reddening as the sn",
    ". this may be an underestimate of the pre - sn extinction if the explosion destroyed part of the dust that was obscuring the progenitor .",
    "finally , to obtain luminosities we used the average distance to ngc  5806 of @xmath16 mpc , as provided by ned .",
    "a representative uncertainty of @xmath17 dex in luminosity is assumed throughout this paper .",
    "this value was estimated from the uncertainties in distance , extinction and bolometric corrections , summed in quadrature .",
    "the uncertainty is dominated by the systematic error in distance and is almost constant in time .",
    "the lc points may move vertically by the indicated amount , but the shape of the lc would not change significantly .    in this paper",
    "we assumed an explosion time ( @xmath18 ) of jd@xmath19 , i.e. , the mid - point between the last non - detection and the discovery date ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "we considered an uncertainty of @xmath20 day in the explosion time , based on the interval between the last non - detection and the discovery .",
    "we emphasize that this uncertainty on @xmath18 is robust due to the stringent detection limit and existing early observations in @xmath21 band ( see section  [ sec : hydro ] ) .",
    "our bolometric lc shows a rise time to maximum of @xmath22 days , i.e. , near the lower end of the typical range for normal stripped - envelope sne ( se sne ) @xcite .",
    "the peak luminosity is @xmath23 erg .",
    "in addition to the bolometric luminosities , in   [ sec : hydro ] we tested our model s photospheric velocity against expansion velocities measured from the spectra .",
    "for that purpose , we adopted the expansion velocities from @xcite .",
    "part of the analysis in section  [ sec : hydro ] also aimed at determining the radius of the progenitor star based on modeling the early - time light curve . for this purpose",
    "we used the @xmath21-band light curve presented by @xcite because it provided the earliest coverage , starting at less than one day after discovery .",
    "we performed a set of explosion models using our one - dimensional lte radiation hydrodynamics code @xcite . since we were investigating a h - free sn , as initial structures we adopted helium stars of different masses .",
    "specifically , we tested models with @xmath24 @xmath1 ( he3.3 ) , 4 @xmath1 ( he4 ) , 5 @xmath1 ( he5 ) , and 8 @xmath1 ( he8 ) , which correspond to main - sequence masses of 12 , 15 , 18 , and 25 @xmath1 , respectively @xcite .",
    "all these initial configurations have compact structures with radii of @xmath25 .",
    "more details about the initial models can be found in @xcite .    sn parameters such as explosion energy ( @xmath26 ) , ejected mass ( @xmath27 ) , and the mass ( @xmath28 ) and distribution of @xmath29ni synthesized during the explosion were derived chiefly by analyzing the main peak of the bolometric lc and the photospheric velocity ( @xmath30 ) evolution . at first order ,",
    "the evolution of @xmath30 is not sensitive to @xmath28 and its distribution . therefore , using the observed expansion velocity , a constraint on @xmath26 for each initial model ( he mass ) could be derived , and then @xmath28 and mixing were adjusted to reproduce the bolometric lc .",
    "figure  [ fig : optimal ] shows our hydrodynamical modeling for iptf13bvn . while he3.3 and he4 can produce reasonably well the observations ( lc and velocities ) , a slightly more massive model , he5 , already shows a worse agreement .",
    "note that the uncertainty in the observed luminosity is nearly systematic and thus the lc could shift vertically but without changing its shape .",
    "the main parameters affected by this shift are the @xmath29ni  mass and its distribution ( see figures  4 and 5 of * ? ? ?",
    "thus the predicted lc for model he5 is too wide compared with the observations , regardless of any overall shift of the data points .",
    "both he3.3 and he4 with similar sn parameters appear to be equally plausible .",
    "we thus consider our best solution to be that with intermediate parameters between those models .",
    "that means that iptf13bvn was produced by the explosion of a low - mass he star of @xmath2 @xmath1 , with an ejected mass of @xmath31 m@xmath6 , where @xmath32 is the total mass of the he star and @xmath33 is the mass assumed to to form a compact remnant ] , an explosion energy of @xmath34 erg and a @xmath29ni  yield of @xmath35 @xmath1 .",
    "these parameters indicate iptf13bvn was a low - energy event with normal nickel production .",
    "also , we found that a quite strong mixing ( extending to @xmath36% of the initial mass ) was required in all the calculations to reproduce the rise time of the lc which in turn is very well known due to the strong constraint on the explosion time ( @xmath18 ; * ? ? ?",
    "the low progenitor mass suggested by our modeling is in clear contradiction with the range of masses allowed for wolf - rayet stars ( e.g. , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and thus our results are in disagreement with those of @xcite .",
    "specifically , in figure  1 we also show the case of a he star with 8 @xmath1 for an explosion energy of @xmath37 erg .",
    "we show a compromise solution for this model that produces too high velocities and too wide lc . if we adopted a lower value of the explosion energy in order to better fit @xmath30 , then the lc would become even fainter and wider , in worse agreement with the observations .",
    "note also that although the he8 model shown in figure  [ fig : optimal ] could be made more compatible with the observations by shifting the explosion date to about one week earlier , that would be incompatible with the non - detection limit in @xmath21 band that is shown in figure  [ fig : rband ] . even considering all the uncertainties related with the model hypotheses and with the observations , we can firmly rule out models with he core mass @xmath38 @xmath1 as progenitors of iptf13bvn .",
    "+   +    .",
    "the compactness of the progenitor can be explored if the sn is observed early enough , before its emission becomes powered by @xmath29ni decay .",
    "the shape of the lc in this early phase is given by the progenitor size and , to some extent , by the degree of @xmath29ni mixing .",
    "the good constraint on @xmath18 and the absence of an initial peak in the early lc of iptf13bvn can lead to the naive conclusion that the progenitor should have been a compact star of a few solar radii in size .",
    "we have tested this by attaching thin he - rich envelopes of different radii to our he4 model , as described in @xcite ) ] .",
    "we derive @xmath21-band photometry from the models by assuming a black - body spectral energy distribution .",
    "figure  [ fig : rband ] shows the early @xmath21-band lc compared with our models . from the comparison , it is clear that models with relatively extended structures , @xmath39 , can not be ruled out considering the uncertainty in @xmath18 ( @xmath40 day ) .",
    "therefore the progenitor of iptf13bvn is not necessarily a compact star .",
    "interestingly , our modeling suggests that in order to to capture the differences in lc shapes and thus to discriminate between compact and relatively extended progenitors , it is necessary to obtain several observations during the same night .",
    "the mass we derived from hydrodynamical modeling is difficult to reconcile with the idea of a single progenitor for the type  ib sn iptf13bvn . in order to remove the hydrogen envelope ,",
    "a single star should be massive enough ( @xmath41 @xmath1 ) to produce strong stellar winds that are able to strip the envelope during its evolution ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ". however , in that case the resulting helium star mass would be too large ( @xmath42 @xmath1 ) to account for the observed sn lc , as shown in ",
    "[ sec : hydro ] .",
    "alternatively , the path to the explosion of a low - mass he star is naturally provided by interacting binaries .",
    "although @xcite derived a mass - loss rate that is compatible with a massive wolf - rayet star based on radio observations , this result depends strongly on the assumed wind velocity among other parameters that are not completely known . for a low - mass helium star a lower mass - loss rate",
    "is expected but the wind properties are uncertain , therefore the radio observations can not be used to validate or reject this possibility .",
    "the question is if there are binary configurations capable of simultaneously reproducing the sn properties and the pre - explosion photometry .    to address this question we used the binary stellar evolutionary code employed in our analysis of sn  2011dh @xcite which is a recent update of the code presented by @xcite . for the present problem , we considered non - rotating stars . at mass transfer conditions",
    ", the code solves the donor star structure , the mass transfer rate and the orbital evolution simultaneously in a fully implicit way , providing numerical stability ( see * ? ? ?",
    "figure  [ fig : binary ] shows the evolutionary tracks in the h - r diagram for a system composed by a donor ( primary ) star of 20 @xmath43 and an accretor ( secondary ) star of 19 @xmath43 on a circular orbit with initial period of @xmath44 days .",
    "we further assumed conservative mass transfer , i.e. , that all the mass that is transferred is accreted onto the secondary ( parameterized by the accretion efficiency , @xmath45=1 ) .",
    "the choice of the initial masses and orbital period of the system was guided to account for the composition of the exploding star , the lc of the supernova , and the available photometric observations prior to the explosion . such configuration is by no means unique but it serves to demonstrate the feasibility of the binary progenitor scenario .",
    "we will explore the range of possible progenitor systems in greater detail in ",
    "[ sec : companion ] .",
    "the system undergoes class a mass transfer  i.e .",
    ", it experiences the first roche - lobe overflow ( rlof ) when it is still in the core hydrogen burning stage , it detaches shortly after core hydrogen exhaustion and , as consequence of the formation of a shell burning hydrogen , suffers a second rlof episode until core helium ignition .",
    "after detachment , the donor star evolves bluewards up to very high effective temperatures . at these stages",
    "the star undergoes wind mass loss that removes the hydrogen - rich outer layers .",
    "the mass loss has been treated as in @xcite , setting the correction factor for wolf - rayet winds defined in their equation  ( 1 ) , @xmath46 , to @xmath47 .",
    "after helium core exhaustion the donor star evolves redwards reaching the final pre - sn structure .",
    "we stopped the calculation at oxygen core exhaustion , assuming that no significant displacement in the h - r diagram occurs until core collapse .",
    "in the meantime , the companion star accretes hydrogen - rich material , which makes it to brighten .",
    "as the accretion rate is rather low , this star moves upwards in the h - r diagram without swelling appreciably . in this way",
    "the system avoids undergoing a common envelope episode .    at the time of explosion",
    "the primary is a h - free star ( see figure  [ fig : abundance ] ) with a mass of @xmath48 @xmath43 and a radius of @xmath49 @xmath50 , in concordance with our hydrodynamical estimations .",
    "the companion star reaches a mass of @xmath51 @xmath43 , with luminosity and effective temperature [ @xmath52 and @xmath53 comparable to those corresponding to a zams star of @xmath54 @xmath43 . the companion star is thus appreciably overluminous , in agreement with previous predictions ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ".     chemical structure of the primary star near to oxygen core exhaustion . at this stage",
    "the star is already devoid of hydrogen . ]",
    "figure  [ fig : sed ] shows that the pre - sn state of the proposed binary progenitor is compatible with the hst observations . to perform this comparison we assumed the primary s spectral energy distribution ( sed )",
    "is well - reproduced by a black body of the given temperature and luminosity .",
    "this is a reasonable approximation for a low - mass he star , as suggested by @xcite . for the secondary star",
    ", we adopted an atmosphere model from @xcite for a main - sequence star of the corresponding effective temperature , scaled to reproduce the required luminosity .",
    "we summed both contributions , applied the extinction correction derived in   [ sec : data ] , and converted to observed flux adopting the distance of @xmath55 mpc .",
    "the synthetic photometry of the progenitor system in the three existing bands is in agreement with the observations within the uncertainties , with differences of less than @xmath17 mag .",
    "we note that the primary star dominates the flux in the optical regime , so its explosion should eventually leave a much fainter object ( i.e. , the companion star ) .",
    "the disappearance of the primary star could be confirmed once the sn fades below its brightness .",
    "considering the usual decline rates of se sne , we estimate to occur at about three years after explosion .",
    "predicted spectrum of the binary progenitor ( solid black line ) compared with hst pre - sn photometry ( black squares ) .",
    "the binary spectrum is the sum of a primary star approximated by a black body ( red line ) and a secondary star represented by an atmosphere model of @xcite ( blue line ) .",
    "the spectra have been extinguished assuming a standard reddening law @xcite and adopting the extinction value derived in section  [ sec : data ] .",
    "the hst photometry was adopted from @xcite and converted to specific fluxes at the approximate effective wavelength of the f435w , f555w , and f814w bands . ]",
    "the solution to the progenitor system presented in section  [ sec : binary ] is not unique .",
    "based on the pre - explosion photometry and the sn observations we studied the range of allowed binary systems with the aim of predicting the nature of the remaining companion star .",
    "the following analysis is not intended to be an accurate derivation but an approximation based on our calculations and general knowledge of interacting binaries .",
    "the first condition for the binary scenario is that the pre - sn structure should have a mass compatible with the light curve and should be devoid of hydrogen .",
    "a primary star initially more massive than @xmath56 @xmath1 would result in a helium core too massive to reproduce the sn light curve . on the opposite extreme ,",
    "if the initial mass of the primary were @xmath57 @xmath1 , it would be difficult to find hydrogen - free structures .",
    "furthermore , the range of allowed pre - explosion masses for the helium star ( 35 @xmath1 ) places some limits on its final luminosity .",
    "following @xcite , we consider this range to be roughly @xmath58 .",
    "the secondary star in turn should not have a mass too close to that of the primary to prevent it from evolving before the explosion @xcite .",
    "if it had evolved , and considering the allowed range of luminosity of the primary , the system luminosity would have become too large .",
    "this assures that the companion star should remain near the zams .",
    "its exact location on the h - r diagram depends on its final mass , which in turn is determined by the total mass of the system and the accretion efficiency , @xmath45 . in order to avoid common envelope episodes , which is beyond the capabilities of the present code",
    ", we have additionally required that the mass ratio of the system was not lower than @xmath59 .",
    "the above restrictions allowed us to place constraints on the final mass  and thereby luminosity  of the companion star .",
    "considering approximate ranges of initial primary mass of @xmath60 @xmath1 and initial mass ratio of @xmath61 , the final secondary mass results in the range of @xmath62 @xmath1 .",
    "given the uncertainties on the mass accretion mechanism , we relaxed the condition on @xmath45 to be @xmath63 , and thus we found that @xmath64 . additionally , the secondary star is expected to be overluminous compared to normal zams stars of equal mass , as we found for the system presented in section  [ sec : binary ] .",
    "its luminosity would correspond to that of a normal zams star of @xmath65% larger mass ( see figure  [ fig : binary ] ) .",
    "this implies a range of luminosities on the zams of @xmath66 .",
    "we corroborated that such range was not further reduced by the constraints from the pre - explosion photometry .",
    "this analysis suggests that the explosion of iptf13bvn has left a remnant companion star of o - type characteristics .",
    "we thus predict that this object could be recovered with future deep observations once the light from the sn ejecta becomes faint enough . with the currently available instrumentation at hst , secondary stars with @xmath67",
    "will be detectable at @xmath68 with exposures times of the order of one hour in near - uv and blue optical bands .",
    "we finally note that the hst pre - explosion photometry is in principle also compatible with a single underluminous ( by a factor of @xmath692 ) late b- or early a - type supergiant star .",
    "such object can be discarded as the progenitor of a stripped - envelope sn . in order not to affect the photometry",
    ", the actual progenitor should be at least one order of magnitude less luminous in the optical range than the supergiant .",
    "one possibility would be a wolf - rayet star , but that is ruled out by our hydrodynamical analysis .",
    "the alternative is that the sn was produced by the merger of two unseen compact stars .",
    "such alternative can be tested once the sn light fades from sight by checking whether the flux of the remaining object has remained nearly unchanged .",
    "our hydrodynamical analysis of iptf13bvn pointed to the explosion of a low - mass helium star ( of @xmath2 @xmath1 ) with a relatively low explosion energy ( of @xmath70 erg ) and normal production of radioactive material ( @xmath71 @xmath1 ) .",
    "interestingly , from the lc rise time we could conclude that this relatively normal event managed to produce a quite strong @xmath29ni  mixing .",
    "our conclusion about the low pre - sn mass is robust because of the strong constraint on the explosion time and it is not affected by the systematic uncertainty of @xmath17 dex in luminosity .",
    "our lc modeling is in contradiction with a wolf - rayet progenitor for iptf13bvn as suggested by @xcite . in order to explain the explosion of a low - mass helium star",
    ", we proposed the possibility of an interacting binary progenitor .",
    "we showed that a system composed of 20  @xmath1 + 19  @xmath1 stars and an initial orbital period of @xmath44 days can fully satisfy all the observational constraints ( pre - explosion mass , chemical composition and hst photometry ) .",
    "the primary star is expected to dominate the flux of the progenitor in the optical , so as a result of the sn explosion we predict that the flux in the observed bands will decrease significantly when the sn fades .",
    "we went one step beyond and studied the possible binary configurations that could lead to compatible solutions for all the observational requirements with the focus on making predictions about the putative companion star .",
    "we found that the remaining star should necessarily be close to the zams with a range of luminosities of @xmath72 this means that the companion star may be detected in the future with deep hst imaging in the uv  blue range .",
    "the detection of the companion would produce the first robust identification of a hydrogen - deficient sn progenitor as a binary system .    while recent evidence suggests a large fraction of massive stars belong to interacting binary systems @xcite , it is still not clear whether this is the main channel to produce hydrogen - free sn .",
    "the combination of hydrodynamical sn models and close binary evolution calculations proves to be a powerful tool for understanding the nature of these events in a self - consistent way .    finally , we studied the implications on the progenitor size by modeling the early @xmath21-band lc .",
    "contrary to what might be expected from its monotonic rise , we showed that not only compact structures ( of a few @xmath73 ) but also relatively extended envelopes ( @xmath74 @xmath73 ) are allowed with the present cadence of the observations .",
    "our calculations suggest that sub - night cadence is required to distinguish among progenitor sizes in the above range .",
    "ongoing surveys such as kiss ( kiso supernova survey ) or future programs like ztf ( intermediate palomar transient factory and zwicky transient facility ) will be able to provide the necessary frequency of observations to solve this kind of problem .",
    "this article took four months to be accepted due to delays by the referee .",
    "this accepted version is only slightly different from the submitted one .",
    "we thank a.  gal - yam and y.  cao for kindly providing early - time data .",
    "this research has been supported in part by the grant - in - aid for scientific research of mext ( 22012003 and 23105705 ) and jsps ( 23540262 ) and by world premier international research center initiative , mext , japan .",
    "ogb is member of the carrera del investigador cientfico of the comisin de investigaciones cientficas ( cic ) of the provincia de buenos aires , argentina .",
    "g.  f. acknowledges financial support by grant - in - aid for scientific research for young scientists ( 23740175 ) .",
    "gca and dks acknowledge partial support from dst under the india - japan s@xmath75 t cooperation programme .",
    "support for hk is provided by the ministry of economy , development , and tourism s millennium science initiative through grant ic12009 , awarded to the millennium institute of astrophysics , mas .",
    "hk acknowledges support by conicyt through fondecyt grant 3140563 .",
    "benvenuto , o.  g. , bersten , m.  c. , & nomoto , k.  2013 , , 762 , 74 benvenuto , o.  g. , & de vito , m.  a.  2003 , , 342 , 50 bersten , m.  c. , benvenuto , o.  g. , nomoto , k. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 757 , 31 bersten , m.  c. , benvenuto , o. , & hamuy , m.  2011 , , 729 , 61 blinnikov , s.  i. , eastman , r. , bartunov , o.  s. , popolitov , v.  a. , & woosley , s.  e.  1998 , , 496 , 454 cardelli ,  j.  a. , clayton ,  g.  c. & mathis ,  j  .s .",
    "1989 , , 345 , 245 cao , y. , kasliwal , m.  m. , arcavi , i. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 775 , l7 claeys , j.  s.  w. , de mink , s.  e. , pols , o.  r. , eldridge , j.  j. , & baes , m.  2011 , , 528 , a131 dray , l.  m. , tout , c.  a.  2007 .  on rejuvenation in massive binary systems .  monthly notices of the royal astronomical society 376 , 61 - 70 .",
    "eldridge , j.  j. , fraser , m. , smartt , s.  j. , maund , j.  r. , & crockett , r.  m.  2013 , , 436 , 774 ergon , m. , sollerman , j. , fraser , m. , et al .",
    "2014 , , 562 , a17 groh , j.  h. , meynet , g. , georgy , c. , & ekstrm , s.  2013 , , 558 , a131 groh , j.  h. , georgy , c. , & ekstrm , s.  2013 , , 558 , l1 heger , a. , fryer , c.  l. , woosley , s.  e. , langer , n. , & hartmann , d.  h.  2003 , , 591 , 288 kurucz , r. 1993 , atlas9 stellar atmosphere langer , n.  2012 , , 50 , 107 lyman , j.  d. , bersier , d. , & james , p.  a.  2014 , , 437 , 3848 massey , p. , olsen , k.  a.  g. , hodge , p.  w. , et al .  2006 , , 131 , 2478 nomoto , k. , suzuki , t. , shigeyama , t. , et al .",
    "1993 , , 364 , 507 nomoto , k. , & hashimoto , m. 1988 , phys .",
    ", 163 , 13 richardson , d. , branch , d. , & baron , e.  2006 , , 131 , 2233 schlafly , e.  f. , & finkbeiner , d.  p.  2011",
    ", , 737 , 103 smartt , s.  j.  2009 , , 47 , 63 srivastav et al . in preparation turatto ,  m. , benetti ,  s. , & cappellaro ,  e. 2003 , in proc . eso / mpa / mpe workshop , from twilight to highlight : the physics of supernovae . hillebrandt w. , leibundgut b. , eds . , springer - verlag , berlin , 200 van dyk , s.  d. , zheng , w. , clubb , k.  i. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 772 , l32 sana , h. , de mink , s.  e. , de koter , a. , et al .",
    "2012 , science , 337 , 444 stritzinger et  al .",
    ", in preparation yoon , s .- c . ,",
    "grfener , g. , vink , j.  s. , kozyreva , a. , & izzard , r.  g.  2012 , , 544 , l11 yoon , s .- c . ,",
    "woosley , s.  e. , & langer , n.  2010 , , 725 , 940"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the recent detection in archival hst images of an object at the the location of supernova ( sn ) iptf13bvn may represent the first direct evidence of the progenitor of a type  ib sn . </S>",
    "<S> the object s photometry was found to be compatible with a wolf - rayet pre - sn star mass of @xmath0 @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> however , based on hydrodynamical models we show that the progenitor had a pre - sn mass of @xmath2 @xmath1 and that it could not be larger than @xmath3 @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> we propose an interacting binary system as the sn progenitor and perform evolutionary calculations that are able to self - consistently explain the light - curve shape , the absence of hydrogen , and the pre - sn photometry . </S>",
    "<S> we further discuss the range of allowed binary systems and predict that the remaining companion is a luminous o - type star of significantly lower flux in the optical than the pre - sn object . a future detection of such star may be possible and would provide the first robust identification of a progenitor system for a type  ib sn . </S>"
  ]
}