{
  "article_text": [
    "recently hamamatsu started to produce the new multi - anode photomultiplier tube .",
    "it is a 64-channel ( 8 x 8) pixel device with an active area of and a pixel size of approximately 2.9 x 2.9 mm@xmath0 which is able to detect single photons .",
    "a very small inactive border around the device ensures a total active area coverage of about 77% , while the mapmt square cross - sectional geometry allows for a close packing ratio ( approximately 90% ) .",
    "these features make the _ r11265 - 103-m64 particularly tailored for an application in high energy physics , such as in a ring imaging cherenkov detectors ( rich ) which are used for the particles identification . in this case , the mapmts are supposed to add a minimal noise contribution with respect to the signal rate and a negligible cross - talk between neighbouring pixels .",
    "in addition to that , the photodetectors must not be affected by the magnetic field or , otherwise , external magnetic shields have to be developed .",
    "considering , for instance , the rich detector @xcite of lhcb @xcite , a magnetic field up to 30 g ( 3 mt ) could be present on the photosensitive plane .",
    "note that , although hybrid photon detectors ( hpds ) are currently used in the rich system of lhcb , mapmt devices coupled with a new read - out electronics are foreseen to be employed for the lhcb rich upgrade @xcite .",
    "this will allow the detector to run at a luminosity up to ten times higher with respect to the current value and calls for a higher read - out speed from all the subdetectors .",
    "two different tubes made by hamamatsu have already been characterized to verify their compliance with the lhcb rich requirements : _    1 .",
    "the _ h9500was rejected because of a non - negligible cross - talk between pixels and was not designed for single photon signal @xcite ; _ 2 .",
    "the _ r7600 - 03-m64 which gives good performance for single photon detection @xcite , but has poor coverage . _",
    "the new _ r11265 - 103-m64 mapmt is similar to the _ r7600 - 03-m64 but has an improved sensitive area .",
    "the measurements performed on the first available samples are presented in this paper . in order to fully characterize the device ,",
    "different features were considered ; for each of them , the description of the setup conditions and the results obtained are described in this paper . in section [ sec : generalfeatures ] the studies of the gain variation , anode uniformity , dark current , bias voltage divider , cross - talk and temperature bahaviour are presented . in section [ sec : environment ]",
    "the measurements of the device inside a magnetic field and aging monitoring are described . _ _",
    "the setup used to measure the basic characteristics of the tubes is the same as described in @xcite .",
    "all the mapmt pixels , except those under study , were covered with a black mask and black tape .",
    "a commercial blue led was biased with a very small current so that only few photons per second were generated .",
    "an optical fiber was positioned laterally to the led and a small fraction of photons were brought to a pixel of the mapmt , so that only that pixel was illuminated in each measurement .",
    "the signals at the anodes were read - out with a commercial wide bandwidth current feedback operational amplifier ( cfoa ) @xcite .",
    "the waveforms were then acquired and recorded with a tektronics dpo7254 fast oscilloscope .      the mapmt gain and the anode uniformity were measured at different bias voltages in order to compare them with the hamamatsu datasheet . during these tests",
    "the standard bias divider with a 2.3 - 1.2 - 1- ... -1 - 0.5 ratio from the first dynode to the last was used .",
    "excellent single - photon response is observed in almost all channels and only few channels show a bad single - photon peak resolution ( fig.[fig : response ] ) . a mapmt - to - mapmt ( fig.[fig : gain ] ) and channel - to - channel variation in gain is measured up to a factor of three . in order to equalize the response , the channels to channel mismatch can be corrected by adjusting the mapmt voltage supply and the gain or the threshold of the front - end electronics @xcite .",
    "a uniformity table is provided by hamamatsu for every tube . for one of the devices tested at -900 v it is shown in fig.[fig : uniformity1 ] ( left ) .",
    "the numbers represent the relative gain of each pixel , the highest being 100 .",
    "this measurement was performed by hamamatsu with a continuous light source and thus the numbers reported represent the contributions from quantum efficiency , collection efficiency and gain .",
    "figure [ fig : uniformity1 ] ( right ) shows the comparison of the spectra of different pixels , obtained with the setup previously described .",
    "the spectra are obtained with single photon signals and are normalized to the number of entries .",
    "the gain spread between different pixels is clearly visible .",
    "almost all the pixels match the uniformity table , except for few of them ( for example pixel 5 ) .",
    "the gain spread among pixels is about 2.3 to 1 for this device .",
    "the photodector dark current is measured at room temperature by recording the events above a threshold of 300 ke@xmath1 .",
    "four mapmts have been tested in similar conditions and they showed the same behaviour .",
    "the dark signal rate is below 5 hz per pixel , or about , for almost all anodes .",
    "only few channels showed a slightly higher rate .",
    "the distribution of dark signals is acquired and compared with the spectra obtained turning on the led .",
    "figure [ fig : dark ] shows the two spectra , normalized to the same number of counts in the single photon region : the spectra are very similar .",
    "the standard bias divider proposed by hamamatsu splits the high voltage between dynodes with a 2.3 - 1.2 - 1- ... -1 - 1 - 1 - 0.5 ratio .",
    "this configuration allows to obtain a mean gain of about 2 me@xmath1 at -1000 v supply voltage ( fig.[fig : divider ] ) and ensures a good linearity . from the device specifications",
    ", the maximum anode output current should be mantained below 100 @xmath2a . in the region of the lhcb rich with a high occupancy , this limit value",
    "could be easily exceeded unless operating with a gain lower than 1 me@xmath3 .",
    "if this is obtained only by lowering the high voltage , also the collection efficiency may decrease .",
    "for this reason we have tested a different bias divider that provides an overall gain lower than the standard bias divider keeping the voltage unchanged at the first stages , as summarized in table [ table : divider1 ] . in this way the detection efficiency and in particular the photoelectrons collection efficiency is not affected .",
    "note that this second bias divider has been also designed to increase the voltage at the last stage in order to maximize the electron collection just before the anode pins .",
    "both the dividers have not been optimized independently , but they have been suggested by hamamatsu .",
    "for all the following tests presented in this paper , the standard bias divider was used .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the system supervised the measurement acquiring the dc aging current values for all pixels every five minutes by a keithley 2700 multimeter ( fig . [",
    "fig : setup ] ) .",
    "the led was biased using a agilent e3631a which was adjusted to keep the aging current stable in one pixel ( channel 4 ) used as the reference .",
    "furthermore , temperature and humidity near the mapmt were continuously monitored and the temperature was kept stable at 24 degrees using some power resistors located on the black box surface .",
    "this configuration prevented any mapmt gain variation due to temperature fluctuation .",
    "finally , the mapmt bias voltage was periodically measured and fixed at a suitable value which guarantees an adequate gain of about @xmath4 electrons per photon .",
    "every four hours , the system stops the slow control , decreases the led bias voltage and starts the waveform acquisition .",
    "each observed pixel was connected to a standard charge sensitive preamplifier circuit and the shaped signals , over a fixed threshold of @xmath5  @xmath6 , were acquired by three 4-channel adcs caen desktop digitizer dt5720 . for each trigger",
    "a 1 @xmath7 waveform was acquired and saved .",
    "the off - line analysis calculated the events rate and the signal amplitude as the difference between its maximum and the baseline .",
    "three different single photon measurements were performed .    1",
    ".   in the led - type measurement , the led was biased for about five minutes at a very low voltage so that it operated in a single photon regime compatible with the acquisition rate and the signal to noise ratio .",
    "this data allowed to obtain for every pixel the single photon spectrum and to estimate the gain loss from the peak position variation .",
    "the noise - type measurement was performed turning off the led for half an hour and acquiring dark signals .",
    "once per month , a source - type measurement was performed to qualitatively observe the aging effects on the photocathode efficiency . in this case",
    "the led was turned off for about two hours and a @xmath8th @xmath9-source was used to produce cherenkov photons in the @xmath10 crystal placed in front of the mapmt , acting as a cherenkov medium .",
    "hence , in the source - type measurement , the photon production rate is constant , depending only on the source activity .",
    "if the photocathode looses efficiency due to aging , i.e. some photons do not produce any photoelectron , then a signal rate reduction would be observed .      before starting the aging measurements ,",
    "the stability of the single photon acquisition chain was checked for three days .",
    "several led - type measurements ( one run every two hours ) were performed keeping on the device but without aging it . as expected , all the spectra from each channel were perfectly superimposed ( an example is shown in fig.[fig : preaging ] ) . also few noise - type measurements were acquired to define precisely the mapmt starting conditions before its aging .",
    "the stability of the aging process conditions was also continuously monitored .",
    "figure [ fig : stability ] shows the mapmt bias voltage trend and , the maximum variation observed was 50 mv at -1000 v ( 0.005% ) .",
    "the temperature control worked efficiently and ensured a maximum variation of about 0.05 @xmath11 .",
    "finally , the dc current of the reference pixel ( channel 4 ) versus time is plotted in fig.[fig : stability ] ( right ) : it was kept stable at 0.180 @xmath12 with a maximum variation of about 5 na ( @xmath133% ) adjusting the led bias voltage .",
    "figure [ fig : aging ] shows the results concerning the gain variation due to the aging for most of the observed pixels .",
    "note that the live - time takes into account only the effective period of led illumination .",
    "more than 600 acquisitions were performed over more than 3000 hours . for each acquisition ,",
    "the gain of each pixel was obtained from the acquired spectra by measuring the energy of the single photon peak .",
    "a whole day of illumination turned out to be necessary for stabilizing the mapmt response , so the percentage gain variation is evaluated considering the gain value at 24 hours as the starting point condition .",
    "the gain loss seems to strongly depend on the dc aging current , or equivalent , on the occupancy level @xmath14 . in particular",
    ", the pixels with a dc current lower than 1 @xmath12 ( @xmath15 ) have a similar behaviour shown in fig.[fig : aging ] ( left ) .",
    "an initial sharp linear decrease can be observed , followed by a plateau reached after about 1200 hours of led illumination .",
    "the gain loss for these pixels can be assessed at about 12 - 22% . on the other hand ,",
    "the gain loss of the most illuminated pixel ( channel 11 ) falls down to about 60% after only 1200 hours ( see fig.[fig : aging ] right ) .",
    "roughly , this decrease can be observed also for the other channels with a dc current larger than 1 @xmath12 ( @xmath16 ) . after about 1200 hours",
    ", the gain variation reduces , then remaining more stable .",
    "a different way of displaying the aging results is to consider the variation of the dc currents measured by the slow control system .",
    "the two methods give comparable results , as fig.[fig : aging2current ] shows .",
    "although the gain loss is higher than expected , even the most illuminated pixel ensures a single photon gain larger than 0.7  me@xmath3 after the aging and the single photon peak is still clearly resolved from the pedestal ( fig.[fig : spectrumaging ] ) . the standard method to compensate",
    "the aging effect is to increase the bias voltage . as fig.[fig : aging2_1025v ] shows , increasing the high voltage by only 25 v ( from -1000 v to -1025 v at 1918 hours ) a gain loss of 10 - 15% was compensated for almost all the channels .",
    "figure [ fig : noiseaging ] shows the results of the noise - type measurements .",
    "the initial software threshold over which the events are integrated is fixed as the half of the single photon peak energy , but then it is adjusted taking into account the gain loss obtained by the led - type measurements .",
    "the dark signal rate exhibited a quite similar behavior for all the observed pixels .",
    "in particular , the dark signal rate seems not to significantly depend on the aging .            in the source - type measurements ,",
    "the rate of the cherenkov photon produced in the @xmath10 is measured .",
    "similarly to the noise - type measurements , the trigger threshold is adjusted according to the gain loss .",
    "the dark signal contribution is then subtracted in order to estimate the source events rate .",
    "since this setup condition ensures a constant photon production rate of about 20 hz , if a deterioration of the photocathode efficiency happens , then the observed rate should decrease .",
    "such a measurement does not mean to be a precise study of the photocathode response , but only a qualitatively observed behaviour . as figure",
    "[ fig : sourceaging ] shows , in almost all the pixels the rate decreases by few hertz after @xmath133000 hours of led illumination .",
    "this suggests that the mapmt might be affected by a photocathode degradation which would reduce the photon detection efficiency by 5 - 10% .",
    "further investigations are necessary for a more precise estimation of this effect .",
    "we have tested the _ r11265 - 103-m64 multi - anode photomultiplier tube produced by hamamatsu .",
    "the results on the cross - talk and the dark signal rate have shown that this photomultiplier tube is adequate for an application in high energy physics , such as in rich detectors .",
    "the phototube performance has been studied also as a function of the bias voltage and temperature . a pixel - to - pixel gain spread of about a factor of 3 has been observed , which suggests to couple the phototube with a read - out electronics able to compensate this effect @xcite .",
    "_    a _ r11265 - 103-m64 mapmt has been tested with respect to the behaviour in a magnetic field up to 100 g. with a proper high magnetic permeability material shielding , the device can operate well under the action of a longitudinal magnetic field up to 50 g. the basic geometrical properties of the shield have also been investigated . _    the gain variation , the increase of dark signal rate and the loss of the photocathode efficiency due to the aging have been studied .",
    "the main aging issue has turned out to be the gain variation , effect which can be compensated by adjusting the bias voltage .",
    "6 the lhcb collaboration , performance of the lhcb rich detector at the lhc , epjc , vol .",
    "5 , pp . 1 - 17 , may 2013 .",
    "doi : 10.1140/epjc / s10052 - 013 - 2431 - 9 the lhcb collaboration , the lhcb detector at the lhc , jinst , vol .",
    "3 , p. s08005 , 2008 . the lhcb collaboration , lhcb pid upgrade technical design report , cern - lhcc-2013 - 022 ; lhcb - tdr-014 c. arnaboldi , et al . , crosstalk study of the single - photon response of a flat - panel pmt for the rich upgrade at lhcb , ieee transactions on nuclear science 57 ( 2010 ) 2267 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/tns.2010.2052928 m. calvi , et al .",
    ", characterization of a hamamatsu _",
    "r7600 multi - anode photomultiplier tube with single photon signals , jinst , vol .",
    "8 , p. p02012 , febraury 2013 .",
    "doi : 10.1088/1748 - 0221/8/02/p02012 a. giachero , et al .",
    ", current feedback operational amplifiers as fast charge sensitive amplifiers for photomultiplier read out , jinst , vol . 6 , p. p05004 , pp 1 19 , 2011 p.carniti , et al . , claro - cmos , a very low power asic for fast photon counting with pixellated photodetectors , jinst , vol . 7 , p. p11026 , pp 1 24 , 2012 j.p sareyan , e. ischi , a study of the physics and non - linear effects in photomultipliers , astronomy and astrophysics , vol . 27 , p. 183",
    ", 1973 a.t .",
    "young , temperature effects in photomultipliers and astronomical photometry , applied optics , vol .",
    "1 , gennaio 1963 a. coche , g. laustriat , influence de la temperature sur les photomoltiplicateurs et les scintillateurs liquides , journal de physique et le radium , vol .",
    "12 , dicembre 1958 _"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the aim of this paper is to fully characterize the new multi - anode photomultiplier tube _ </S>",
    "<S> r11265 - 103-m64 , produced by hamamatsu . </S>",
    "<S> its high effective active area ( 77% ) , its pixel size , the low dark signal rate and the capability to detect single photon signals make this tube suitable for an application in high energy physics , such as for rich detectors . </S>",
    "<S> four tubes and two different bias voltage dividers have been tested . </S>",
    "<S> the results of a standard characterization of the gain and the anode uniformity , the dark signal rate , the cross - talk and the device behaviour as a function of temperature have been studied . </S>",
    "<S> the behaviour of the tube is studied in a longitudinal magnetic field up to 100 gauss . </S>",
    "<S> shields made of a high permeability material are also investigated . </S>",
    "<S> the deterioration of the device performance due to long time operation at intense light exposure is studied . </S>",
    "<S> a quantitative analysis of the variation of the gain and the dark signals rate due to the aging is described . _ </S>"
  ]
}