{
  "article_text": [
    "starting from a very hot plasma made of electrons and protons after the big bang , to the gas that now fills the space between galaxies , the intergalactic medium ( igm ) has been one of the main `` recorders '' of the different phases of evolution of the universe .",
    "changes in the thermodynamic state and chemical composition of this gas reflect the conditions for the formation and the evolution of the structures that we can observe today",
    ". in particular , the igm thermal history can be an important source of information about reionizing processes that injected vast amounts of energy into this gas on relatively short timescales .",
    "for this reason considerable efforts have been made to find any  footprint \" of either h i ( @xmath14 ) or he ii ( @xmath5 ) reionization . because the ionisation potential of he ii ( from he ii to he iii ) is 54.4 ev and fully ionized helium recombines more than 5 times faster than ionized hydrogen , this second reionization event should have begun later , after the reionization of hydrogen and he i ( @xmath15 , @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) when quasars started to dominate the uv background ( @xcite ) .",
    "theoretically , the much harder photons from quasars would have been able to fully ionize he ii around redshifts @xmath16 but these estimates change depending on assumptions about the abundance of quasars ( qsos ) and the hardness of their spectra ( @xcite ) .",
    "while the direct observation , through the detection of the `` gunn  peterson effect '' , recently suggests the end of the he ii reionization at @xmath17 ( e.g. @xcite;@xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; ) , any current constraint on the physics of this phenomenon is limited by the cosmic variance among the small sample of `` clean '' lines of sight , those along which the he ii lyman-@xmath3 transition is not blocked by higher - redshift hi lyman limit absorption . for this reason indirect methods have been developed to obtain a detailed characterization of the he ii reionization .    it is predicted that the igm should be reheated by photo - ionization heating during he ii reionization and , because its cooling time is long , the low density gas retains some useful memory of when and how it was reionized .",
    "in fact , at the mean density of the igm the characteristic signature of reionization is expected to be a peak : a gradual heating followed by cooling due to adiabatic expansion ( e.g. @xcite ) . in the last decade , the search for this feature and the study of the thermal history of the igm as a function of redshift have been the objectives of different efforts , not only to verify the theoretical prediction and constrain the timing of he ii reionization , but also to obtain information on the nature of the ionizing sources and on the physics of the related ionizing mechanisms . to obtain measurements of the temperature of the igm , studying the absorption features of the hi lyman-@xmath3 forest",
    "has proven to be a useful method so far .",
    "the widths of these lines are sensitive to thermal broadening but are also affected by hubble broadening and peculiar velocities .",
    "cosmological simulations are therefore required to characterize the large scale structure and bulk motion of the igm ( @xcite ) , before the gas temperature can be determined .",
    "previous efforts to extract information on the thermal state of the cosmic gas from the lyman-@xmath3 forest can be divided into two main approches : the study of individual absorption features and the quantification of the absorption structures with a global statistical analysis of the entire forest .",
    "the first method consists of decomposing the spectra into a set of voigt profiles .",
    "@xcite found evidence using this technique for an increase in the igm temperature consistent with he ii reionization at @xmath18 .",
    "in contrast , @xcite found a constant temperature over @xmath19 .",
    "a characterization of the flux probability distribution ( pdf ) based on pixel statistics has also been used to analyse the forest and extract information from the comparison with theoretical models ( @xcite ; @xcite )",
    ". however , the pdf is sensitive to a range of systematic effects , including the placement of the unabsorbed continuum .",
    "a further approach is to use wavelet analysis to characterize the ly@xmath3 line - widths distribution in terms of discrete wavelets . @xcite and @xcite found evidence using this technique for he ii reionization completing near @xmath20 , but with large statistical uncertainties . in the recent work of @xcite , the pdf and the wavelet decomposition methods",
    "have been compared and tested on lyman-@xmath3 spectra at low redshift .",
    "while the results are in formal agreement with previous measurements , the uncertainties are still large and there is a mild tension between the two analyses .",
    "recently , @xcite developed a statistical approach based on the flux curvature .",
    "this work constrained the temperature over @xmath21 of a  optimal \" or ",
    "characteristic \" overdensity , which evolves with redshift .",
    "the error bars were considerably reduced compared to previous studies , partially at the expense of determining the temperature at a single density only , rather than attempting to constrain the temperature  density relation .",
    "some evidence was found for a gradual reheating of the igm over @xmath22 but with no clear evidence for a temperature peak .",
    "given these uncertainties , the mark of the he ii reionization still needs a clear confirmation .",
    "nevertheless , the curvature method is promising because it is relatively robust to continuum placement errors : the curvature of the flux is sensitive to the shape of the absorption lines and not strongly dependent on the flux normalization .",
    "furthermore , because it incorporates the temperature information from the entire lyman-@xmath3 forest , this statistic has the advantage of using more of the available information , as opposed to the line - fitting method which relies on selecting lines that are dominated by thermal broadening .",
    "an injection of substantial amounts of thermal energy is predicted to result in both an increase in the igm temperature and a change in the temperature  density ( t@xmath23 ) relation .",
    "the detailed study of this process has to take into consideration the effects of the igm inhomogeneities driven by the diffusion and percolation of the ionized bubbles around single sources , and currently constitutes an important object of investigation through hydrodynamical simulations ( e.g. @xcite ) . in the simplest scenario , for gas at overdensities @xmath24 ( @xmath25 , where @xmath26 is the mean density of the igm ) , the temperature is related to the density with a power - law relation of the form : @xmath27 where @xmath9 is the temperature at the mean density ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the evolution of the parameters @xmath9 and @xmath2 as a function of redshift then describes the thermal history of the igm .",
    "a balance between photo - heating and cooling due to adiabatic expansion of the universe will asymptotically produce a power law with @xmath28 ( @xcite ) . during the reionization",
    "the slope is expected to flatten temporarily before evolving back to the asymptotic value .",
    "possible evidence for this flattening at @xmath18 , seems to be consistent with he ii reionization occurring around this time ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "some analyses of the flux pdf have indicated that the t@xmath23 relation may even become inverted ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "however , the observational uncertainties in this measurement are considerable ( see discussion in @xcite ) .",
    "a possible explanation was suggested by considering radiative transfer effects ( @xcite ) .",
    "although it appears difficult to produce this result considering only he ii photo - heating by quasars ( @xcite;@xcite ) , a new idea of volumetric heating from blazar tev emission predicts an inverted temperature  density relation at low redshift and at low densities . according to these models ,",
    "heating by blazar @xmath2-ray emission would start to dominate at @xmath18 , obscuring the  footprint \" of he ii reionization ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "even if in the most recent analysis , with the line - fitting method ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , the inversion in the temperature  density relation has not been confirmed , a general lack of knowledge about the behaviour of the t@xmath23 relation at low redshift ( @xmath5 ) still emerges , accompanied with no clear evidence for the he ii reionization peak .",
    "a further investigation of the temperature evolution in this redshifts regime therefore assumes some importance in order to find constraints for the physics of the he ii reionization and the temperature  density relation of the igm .",
    "the purpose of this work is to apply the curvature method to obtain new , robust temperature measurements at redshift @xmath5 , extending the previous results , for the first time , down to the optical limit for the lyman-@xmath29 forest at @xmath4 . by pushing the measurement down to such a low redshift",
    ", we attempt to better constrain the thermal history in this regime , comparing the results with the theoretical predictions for the different heating processes .",
    "we infer temperature measurements by computing the curvature on a new set of quasar spectra at high resolution obtained from the archive of the uves spectrograph on the vlt .",
    "synthetic spectra , obtained from hydrodynamical simulations used in the analysis of @xcite and extended down to the new redshift regime are used for the comparison with the observational data .",
    "similar to @xcite , we constrain the temperature of the igm at a characteristic overdensity , @xmath30 , traced by the lyman-@xmath3 forest , which evolves with redshift .",
    "we do not attempt to constrain the t@xmath23 relation , but we use fiducial values of the parameter @xmath31 in eq . 1 to present results for the temperature at the mean density , @xmath9 .",
    "this paper is organised as follows .",
    "in section 2 we present the observational data sample obtained from the vlt archive , while the simulations used to interpret the measurements are introduced in section 3 . in section 4 the curvature method and our analysis procedure are summarized . in section 5",
    "we present the data analysis and we discuss the strategies applied to reduce the systematic uncertainties .",
    "the calibration and the analysis of the simulations is described in section 6 .",
    "the results are presented in section 7 for the temperature at the characteristic overdensities and the temperature at the mean density for different values of @xmath2 .",
    "we discuss the comparison with theoretical models in section 8 , and conclude in section 9 .",
    "in this work we used a sample of 60 quasar spectra uniformly selected on the basis of redshift , wavelength coverage and s / n in order to obtain robust results in the uv and optical parts ( 31004870 ) of the spectrum where the lyman-@xmath3 transition falls for redshifts @xmath32 .",
    "the quasars and their basic properties are listed in table [ table : datatable ] .",
    "the spectra were retrieved from the archive of the uves spectrograph on the vlt . in general , most spectra were observed with a slit - width @xmath33 wide and on - chip binning of 2@xmath342 , which provides a resolving power @xmath35 ( fwhm @xmath36 7 km / s ) ; this is more than enough to resolve typical lyman-@xmath3 forest lines , which generally have fwhm @xmath37 15 km / s .",
    "the archival quasar exposures were reduced using the eso uves common pipeline language software .",
    "this suite of standard routines was used to optimally extract and wavelength - calibrate individual echelle orders .",
    "the custom - written program uves_popler was then used to combine the many exposures of each quasar into a single normalized spectrum on a vacuum - heliocentric wavelength scale . for most quasars",
    ", the orders were redispersed onto a common wavelength scale with a dispersion of 2.5 km / s per pixel ; for 4 bright ( and high s / n ) , @xmath38 quasars the dispersion was set to 1.5 km / s per pixel .",
    "the orders were then scaled to optimally match each other and then co - added with inverse - variance weighting using a sigma - clipping algorithm to reject ` cosmic rays ' and other spectral artefacts .    to ensure a minimum threshold of spectral quality and a reproducible sample definition",
    ", we imposed a ",
    "s / n \" lower limit of 24 per pixel for selecting which qsos and which spectral sections we used to derive the igm temperature . a high s / n",
    "is , in fact , extremely important for the curvature statistic which is sensitive to the variation of the shapes of the lyman-@xmath3 lines : in low s / n spectra this statistic will be dominated by the noise and , furthermore , by narrow metal lines that are difficult to identify and mask .",
    "the `` s / n '' cut - off of 24 per pixel was determined by using the hydrodynamical lyman-@xmath3 forest simulations discussed in section [ sec : sims ] . by adding varying amounts of gaussian noise to the simulated forest spectra and performing a preliminary curvature analysis like that described in sections [ sec : curvature ] & [ sec : analysis ] , the typical uncertainty on the igm temperature could be determined , plus the extent of any systematic biases caused by low s / n .",
    "it was found that a competitive statistical uncertainty of @xmath39% in the temperature could be achieved with the cut - off in `` s / n '' set to 24 per pixel , and that this was well above the level at which systematic biases become significant .",
    "however , in order for us to make the most direct comparison with these simulations , we have to carefully define ",
    "s / n \" . in fact for the lyman-@xmath3 forest the s",
    "/ n fluctuates strongly and so it is not very well defined .",
    "therefore , the continuum - to - noise ratio , c / n , is the best means of comparison with the simulations . to measure this from each spectrum , we had first to establish a reasonable continuum .",
    "the continuum fitting is a crucial aspect in the quasar spectral analysis and for this reason we applied to all the data a standard procedure in order to avoid systematic uncertainties due to the continuum choice .",
    "we used the continuum - fitting routines of uves_popler to determine the final continuum for all our quasar spectra .",
    "initially , we iteratively fitted a 5th - order chebyshev polynomial to overlapping 10000-km / s sections of spectra between the lyman-@xmath3 and lyman-@xmath40 emission lines of the quasar .",
    "the initial fit in each section began by rejecting the lowest 50% of pixels . in subsequent iterations , pixels with fluxes @xmath413@xmath42 above and",
    "@xmath411@xmath42 below the fit were excluded from the next iteration .",
    "the iterations continued until the ` surviving ' pixels remained the same in two consecutive iterations .",
    "the overlap between neighbouring sections was 50% and , after all iterations were complete , the final continuum was formed by combining the individual continua of neighbouring sections with a weighting which diminished linearly from unity at their centres to zero at their edges .",
    "after this initial treatment of all spectra we applied further small changes to the fitting parameters after visually inspecting the results . in most cases , we reduced the spectral section size , the threshold for rejecting pixels below the fit at each iteration , and the percentage of pixels rejected at the first iteration to values as low as 6000 km / s , 0.8 @xmath42 and 40% respectively . in figure",
    "[ fig : forestex ] we show examples of continuum fits for ly-@xmath3 forest regions at different redshifts obtained with this method .",
    "this approach allowed us to avoid cases where the fitted continuum obviously dipped inappropriately below the real continuum , but still defined our sample with specific sets of continuum parameters without any further manual intervention , allowing a reproducible selection of the appropriate sample for this analysis .",
    "furthermore , as described in section 5 , to avoid any systematics due to the large - scale continuum placement , we re - normalized each section of spectra that contributed to our results .",
    "the redshift distribution of the lyman-@xmath3 forest ( @xmath43 ) of the quasars in our selected sample is shown in figure [ fig : histo ] , where it is also reported their distribution of c / n in the same region . due to",
    "instrumental sensitivity limits in the observation of bluest part of the optical ly-@xmath3 forest , it is more difficult to collect data with high c / n for @xmath44 .",
    "the general lower quality of these data and the lower number of quasars contributing to this redshift region will be reflected in the results , causing larger uncertainties .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]      the tendency of our @xmath9 results to flatten at @xmath12 seems to suggest that at these redshifts the reheating due to the he ii reionization has been slowed down , if not completely exhausted , marking the end of this cosmological event . in the absence of reionization s heating effects the temperature at the mean density of the ionized plasma is expected to approach a thermal asymptote that represents the balance between photoionization heating and cooling due to the adiabatic expansion of the universe .",
    "the harder the uv background ( uvb ) is , the higher the temperature will be because each photoionization event deposits more energy into the igm .",
    "in particular , under the assumption of a power - law ionizing spectrum , @xmath45 , and that he ii reionization no longer contributes any significant heating , the thermal asymptote can be generally described by ( @xcite ; @xcite ) : @xmath46    where the parameter @xmath3 is the spectral index of the ionizing source .",
    "the observational value of @xmath3 is still uncertain . from direct measurements of qso rest - frame continua",
    ", this value has been found to range between 1.4 and 1.9 depending on the survey ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) whereas for galaxies the values commonly adopted range between 1 and 3 ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) even if , in the case of the emissivity of realistic galaxies , a single power law is likely be consider an oversimplification .    because our data at @xmath12 do not show any strong evidence for a rapid decrease or increase in the temperature , here we assume that this redshift regime already traces the thermal asymptote in eq .  4 . under this hypothesis",
    "we can then infer some suggestions about the expectation of a transition of the uv background from being dominated maily by stars to being dominated mainly by quasars over the course of the he ii reionization ( @xmath47 ) . in figure",
    "[ fig : slopesuv ] we show , as an illustrative example only , two models for the thermal asymptote : the first is the model of @xcite for the expected cooling in the absence of he ii reionization , with @xmath3 scaled to 5.65 to match the flattening of the @xcite data at @xmath485 , while in the second case @xmath3 was scaled to 0.17 to match our results ( for @xmath49 ) at @xmath10 .",
    "these values are at some variance with the quantitative expectations : in the first case our uvb spectrum is significantly softer compared to typical galaxies - dominated spectrum while , after he ii reionization , our value is somewhat harder than a typical quasar - dominated spectrum .",
    "we also emphasise that any such estimate of changes in the spectral index also involves the considerable uncertainties , already discussed , connected with the correct position of the peak in @xmath9 and the choice of @xmath2 , and so we can not make firm or quantitative conclusions here",
    ". however , in general , the observed cooling at higher temperatures at @xmath10 seems to suggest that the shape of the uv background has changed , hardening with the increase in temperature during to the reionization event .",
    "( eq .  4 ) scaled to match the high redshift ( @xmath505 ) data of @xcite ( black dashed line ) is compared with the same model with @xmath3 scaled to match our results ( assuming @xmath11 ) at @xmath10 ( green dashed line ) .",
    "the significant change in @xmath3 required over the redshift range @xmath51 in this example suggests that the uv background has changed , hardening during the he ii reionization.,scaledwidth=40.0% ]",
    "the main contribution of our work is to add constraints on the thermal history of the igm down to the lowest optically - accessible redshift , @xmath52 .",
    "these are the first temperature measurements in this previously unexplored redshift range . in this section",
    "we discuss the possible implications of our results in terms of compatibility with theoretical models .",
    "measuring the low - redshift thermal history is important for confirming or ruling out the photo - heating model of heii reionization and the new blazar heating models . according to many models of the former",
    ", the heii reionization should have left a footprint in the thermal history of the igm : during this event , considerable additional heat is expected to increase the temperature at the mean density of the cosmic gas ( @xmath9 ) at @xmath53 @xcite .",
    "the end of he ii reionization is then characterized by a cooling of the igm due to the adiabatic expansion of the universe with specifics that will depend on the characteristics of the uv background . however , even if some evidence has been found for an increase in the temperature at the mean density from @xmath50 down to @xmath54 ( e.g. @xcite ) , the subsequent change in the evolution of @xmath9 expected after the end of the he ii reionization has not been clearly characterized yet and remains strongly degenerate with the imprecisely constrained slope of the temperature  density relation @xmath2 ( see eq .",
    "1 ) . this , combined with several results from pdf analysis which show possible evidence for an inverted temperature  density relation ( @xcite ; @xcite ;",
    "@xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , brought the development of a new idea of volumetric heating from blazar tev emission ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "these models , where the heating rate is independent of the density , seem to naturally explain an inverted t@xmath23 relation at low redshift . predicted to dominate the photo - heating for @xmath55",
    ", these processes would obscure the change in the temperature evolution trend due to the heii reionization , preventing any constraint on this event from the thermal history measurements .",
    "a main motivation for constraining the temperature at lower redshifts than @xmath54 is to confirm evidence for a flattening in the already detected trend of increasing temperature for @xmath53 .",
    "a precise measurement of a change in the @xmath56 slope , in fact , could bring important information about the physics of the igm at these redshifts and the end of the he ii reionization event .",
    "it is therefore interesting that our new temperature measurements in figure [ fig : slopes ] , which extend down to redshifts @xmath52 , show some evidence for such a change in the evolution for @xmath57 .",
    "however , in order to make a fair comparison with different heating models in terms of the temperature at the mean density , we must recognize the fact that we do not have yet strong constraints on the evolution of the t@xmath23 relation slope as a function of redshift : assuming a particular choice of @xmath2 for the translation of the temperature values at the characteristic overdensities to those at the mean density , without considering the uncertainties in the slope itself , could result in an unfair comparison . furthermore",
    ", the blazar heating models t@xmath23 relation at each redshift can be parametrized with a power - law ( of the form of eq.1 ) only for a certain range of overdensities that may not always cover the range in our characteristic overdensities ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .    therefore ,",
    "to compare our results with the blazar heating model predictions , we decided to use directly the @xmath13 values probed by the forest .    in figure",
    "[ fig : bb2 ] we compare the model without blazar heating contributions , and the weak , intermediate and strong blazar heating models of @xcite , with our new results for the temperature at the characteristic overdensities .",
    "the temperature values for all the models were obtained by computing the maximum of the temperature distribution function at the corresponding redshift - dependent characteristic overdensities [ @xmath30 ] in table 4 by e.  puchwein ( private communication ) .",
    "each of the three blazar heating models has been developed using different heating rates , based on observations of 141 potential tev blazars , under the assumption that their locally - observed distribution is representative of the average blazars distribution in the universe .",
    "the variation in the heating rates is due to the tuning of a coefficient in the model that corrects for systematic uncertainties in the observations : the lower this multiplicative coefficient , the weaker the heating rate ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the observational constraints on the igm thermal evolution in fig .",
    "[ fig : bb2 ] seem to be in reasonable agreement with the intermediate blazar heating model , even if some fluctuations toward higher temperatures reach the range of values of the strong blazar model .",
    "this result in general reflects what was found by @xcite ( their figure 5 ) in their comparison with the temperature measurements of @xcite , even if in that case the models were tuned to different @xmath30 values than ours .",
    "this general agreement could be explained by the fact that our @xmath13 measurements closely match those of @xcite in the common redshift range @xmath59 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : td ] ) and by the weak dependency on the density of the blazar heating mechanism .    according to fig .",
    "[ fig : bb2 ] , the model from @xcite without a blazar heating contribution , that is based on the uv background evolution of @xcite , shows temperature values significantly lower than our ( @xmath60 measurements @xmath61 .",
    "however , this model does not take into account the contribution of the diffuse hard x - ray background ( @xcite ) .",
    "the excess energy of these ionizing photons could , in fact , contribute to the heating , shifting the range of temperatures towards higher values .",
    "also , to definitely ruled out or confirm any of the different thermal histories , an interesting further test would be to compare the temperature at the mean density between observations and models .",
    "that is , there is a strong need for model - independent measurements of @xmath9 that would allow a straightforward comparison between different t@xmath23 relations , and so different model predictions . in this context",
    "a promising prospect is the use of the he ii lyman-@xmath3 forest for the identification of the absorption features useful for an improved line - fitting constraint of @xmath2 .",
    "the possibility to calculate directly the ratio between @xmath62 parameters of the corresponding h i and he ii lines would , in fact , make possible an easier and more precise selection of the lines that are dominated by thermal broadening ( @xmath63 ) .",
    "even if the low s / n of the uv spectra currently available make this identification difficult ( @xcite ) , possible future , space - based telescopes uv with high resolution spectrographs ( e.g. @xcite ) may offer the opportunity to improve the quality and the number of  clean \" he ii forests for future analyses .",
    ", inferred in this work ( green points ) are compared with the model without a blazar heating contribution ( black solid line ) and the weak ( green dashed line ) , intermediate ( yellow dashed line ) and strong ( red dashed line ) blazar heating models of @xcite .",
    "the blazar heating predictions were computed at the corresponding using the @xmath64 in table 4 to order to allow a fair comparison with our @xmath13 measurements .",
    "our observational results seem to be in reasonable agreement with the intermediate blazar heating model .",
    "the vertical error bars represent the 1-@xmath42 errors on the temperature measurements.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]",
    "in this work we have utilized a sample of 60 vlt / uves quasar spectra to make a new measurement of the igm temperature evolution at low redshift , @xmath65 , with the curvature method applied to the hi lyman-@xmath3 forest . for the first time we have pushed the measurements to the lowest optically - accessible redshifts , @xmath52 .",
    "our new measurements of the temperature at the characteristic overdensities traced by the ly-@xmath3 forest , @xmath13 , are consistent with the previous results of becker et al .",
    "( 2011 ) in the overlapping redshift range , @xmath66 , despite the datasets being completely independent .",
    "they show the same increasing trend for @xmath13 towards lower redshifts while , in the newly - probed redshift interval @xmath67 , the evolution of @xmath13 is broadly consistent with the extrapolated trend at higher redshifts .",
    "the translation of the @xmath13 measurements into values of temperature at the mean density , @xmath9 , depends on the slope of the temperature  density relation , @xmath2 , which we do not constrain in this work .",
    "however , for reasonable , roughly constant , assumptions of this parameter , we do observe some evidence for a change in the slope of the temperature evolution for redshifts @xmath12 , with indications of at least a flattening , and possibly a reversal , of the increasing temperature towards lower redshifts seen in our results and those of @xcite for @xmath68 .",
    "in particular , for the minimum @xmath9 case , with @xmath49 , the extension towards lower redshifts provided by this work adds to existing evidence for a decrease in the igm temperature from @xmath1 down to the lowest redshifts probed here , @xmath52 .",
    "this could be interpreted as the footprint of the completion of the reheating process connected with the he ii reionization .    following",
    "the additional hypothesis that our low redshift temperature measurements are already tracing the thermal asymptote , the cooling of @xmath9 inferred at @xmath12 ( assuming @xmath49 ) may suggest that the uv background has changed , hardening during the he ii reionization epoch .",
    "however , the expectation for the evolution of @xmath9 following heii reionization will depend on the evolution in @xmath2 and on details of the reionization model .",
    "we also compared our t(@xmath30 ) measurements with the expectations for the models of @xcite with and without blazar heating contributions . to allow a fair comparison with our observed values ,",
    "the model predictions were computed at the corresponding ( redshift - dependent ) characteristic overdensities ( @xmath30 ) .",
    "our observational results seem to be in reasonable agreement with a moderate blazar heating scenario . however , to definitely confirm or rule out any specific thermal history it is necessary to obtain new , model - independent measurements of the temperature at the mean density .    with the igm curvature now constrained from @xmath69 down to @xmath52 ,",
    "the main observational priority now is clearly to tightly constrain the slope of the temperature  density relation , @xmath2 , and its evolution over the redshift range @xmath70 .",
    "this is vital in order to fix the absolute values of the temperature at the mean density and to comprehensively rule out or confirm any particular heating scenarios .",
    "finally , we note that , even though our new measurements have extended down to @xmath52 , there is still a dearth of quasar spectra with high enough s / n in the 30003300  spectral range to provide curvature information in our lowest redshift bin , @xmath71 .",
    "we have searched the archives of both the vlt / uves and keck / hires instruments for new spectra to contribute to this bin . however , the few additional spectra that we identified had relatively low s / n and , when included in our analysis , contributed negligibly to the final temperature constraints .",
    "therefore , new observations of uv - bright quasars with emission redshifts @xmath72 are required to improve the temperature constraint at @xmath71 to a similar precision as those we have presented at @xmath73 .",
    "we thank e.  puchwein for providing us with the temperature at our characteristic overdensity values within the various blazar heating scenarios .",
    "eb thanks e.  tescari for several useful discussions .",
    "we thank the referee , m. shull , for helpful comments that clarified several points in the paper .",
    "the hydrodynamical simulations used in this work were performed using the darwin supercomputer of the university of cambridge high performance computing service ( http://www.hpc.cam.ac.uk/ ) , provided by dell inc .  using strategic research infrastructure funding from the higher education funding council for england .",
    "mtm thanks the australian research council for _ discovery project _ grant dp130100568 which supported this work .",
    "gdb gratefully acknowledges support from the kavli foundation .",
    "jsb acknowledges the support of a royal society university research fellowship .",
    "g.  d. , bolton j.  s. , haehnelt m.  g. , sargent w.  l.  w. , 2011 , , 410 , 1096    g.  d. , hewett p.  c. , worseck g. , prochaska j.  x. , 2013 , , 430 , 2067    g.  d. , rauch m. , sargent w.  l.  w. , 2007 , , 662 , 72    r.  h. , fan x. , white r.  l. , strauss m.  a. , narayanan v.  k. , lupton r.  h. , gunn j.  e. , annis j. , bahcall n.  a. , brinkmann j. , connolly a.  j. , csabai i. , czarapata p.  c. , doi m. , heckman t.  m. , hennessy g.  s. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 122 , 2850    j.  s. , becker g.  d. , haehnelt m.  g. , viel m. , 2014 , , 438 , 2499    j.  s. , haehnelt m.  g. , 2007 , , 382 , 325    j.  s. , oh s.  p. , furlanetto s.  r. , 2009 , , 395 , 736    j.  s. , viel m. , kim t .-",
    "s . , haehnelt m.  g. , carswell r.  f. , 2008 , , 386 , 1131    f. , tescari e. , dodorico v. , viel m. , cristiani s. , kim t .- s .",
    ", bolton j.  s. , 2012 , , 422 , 3019    p. , broderick a.  e. , pfrommer c. , 2012 , , 752 , 23    e. , sunyaev r. , revnivtsev m. , sazonov s. , molkov s. , grebenev s. , winkler c. , parmar a. , bazzano a. , falanga m. , gros a. , lebrun f. , natalucci l. , ubertini p. , roques j .- p .",
    ", bouchet l. , jourdain e. , 2007 , , 467 , 529    m. , cantalupo s. , porciani c. , 2013 , , 435 , 3169    d.  j. , hu w. , 1999 , , 511 , 5    x. , carilli c.  l. , keating b. , 2006 , , 44 , 415    c .- a . ,",
    "lidz a. , zaldarriaga m. , hernquist l. , 2009 , , 703 , 1416    c .- a . , prochaska j.  x. , lidz a. , hernquist l. , zaldarriaga m. , 2008 , , 681 , 831    a. , bolton j.  s. , kim t .- s . , leach s. , viel m. , 2012 , , 424 , 1723    f. , madau p. , 2001",
    ", in neumann d.  m. , tran j.  t.  v. , eds , clusters of galaxies and the high redshift universe observed in x - rays modelling the uv / x - ray cosmic background with cuba    l. , gnedin n.  y. , 1997 , , 292 , 27    l. , haiman z. , 2003 , , 596 , 9    n. , bennett c.  l. , dunkley j. , gold b. , greason m.  r. , halpern m. , hill r.  s. , hinshaw g. , kogut a. , komatsu e. , larson d. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , nolta m.  r. , odegard n. , page l. , smith k.  m. , spergel d.  n. , tucker g.  s. , 2011 , , 192 , 14    d. , tytler d. , suzuki n. , melis c. , hollywood s. , james k. , so g. , lubin d. , jena t. , norman m.  l. , paschos p. , 2005",
    ", , 360 , 1373    m. , faucher - gigure c .- a . , 2012 , , 423 , 862    d. , dunkley j. , hinshaw g. , komatsu e. , nolta m.  r. , bennett c.  l. , gold b. , halpern m. , hill r.  s. , jarosik n. , kogut a. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , odegard n. , page l. , smith k.  m. , spergel d.  n. , tucker g.  s. , weiland j.  l. , wollack e. , 2011 , , 192 , 16    a. , faucher - gigure c .- a . , dallaglio a. , mcquinn m. , fechner c. , zaldarriaga m. , hernquist l. , dutta s. , 2010 , , 718 , 199    p. , miralda - escud j. , rauch m. , sargent w.  l.  w. , barlow t.  a. , cen r. , 2001 , , 562 , 52    m. , lidz a. , zaldarriaga m. , hernquist l. , hopkins p.  f. , dutta s. , faucher - gigure c .- a . , 2009 , , 694 , 842    a. , 2005 , , 356 , 596    a. , tittley e.  r. , brown c.  k. , 2010 , , 401 , 77    j. , haehnelt m. , rees m.  j. , 2000 , , 530 , 1    k.  a. , skillman e.  d. , 2004 , , 617 , 29    m. , mobasher b. , shimasaku k. , ferguson h.  c. , fall s.  m. , ono y. , kashikawa n. , morokuma t. , nakajima k. , okamura s. , dickinson m. , giavalisco m. , ohta k. , 2009 , , 706 , 1136    m. , argabright v. , arnold b. , aronstein d. , atcheson p. , blouke m. , brown t. , calzetti d. , cash w. , clampin m. , content d. , dailey d. , 2009 , arxiv e - prints , 0904.0941    e. , pfrommer c. , springel v. , broderick a.  e. , chang p. , 2012",
    ", , 423 , 149    c.  l. , ade p.  a.  r. , bock j.  j. , bond j.  r. , brevik j.  a. , contaldi c.  r. , daub m.  d. , dempsey j.  t. , goldstein j.  h. , holzapfel w.  l. , kuo c.  l. , lange a.  e. , lueker m. , newcomb m. , peterson j.  b. , ruhl j. , runyan m.  c. , staniszewski z. , 2009 , , 694 , 1200    m. , gnedin n.  y. , shull j.  m. , 2000 , , 534 , 41    e. , theuns t. , schaye j. , pris i. , petitjean p. , 2013",
    ", , 428 , 540    g.  c. , steidel c.  c. , pettini m. , 2012 , , 757 , l30    g.  c. , steidel c.  c. , shapley a.  e. , pettini m. , 2013 , , 769 , 146    j. , aguirre a. , kim t .- s . , theuns t. , rauch m. , sargent w.  l.  w. , 2003 , , 596 , 768    j. , theuns t. , rauch m. , efstathiou g. , sargent w.  l.  w. , 2000 , in franco j. , terlevich l. , lpez - cruz o. , aretxaga i. , eds , cosmic evolution and galaxy formation : structure , interactions , and feedback vol .",
    "215 of astronomical society of the pacific conference series , constraining reionization using the thermal history of the baryons .",
    "j. , bechtold j. , dobrzycki a. , kulkarni v.  p. , 2000",
    ", , 130 , 67    j.  m. , france k. , danforth c.  w. , smith b. , tumlinson j. , 2010 , , 722 , 1312    j.  m. , stevans m. , danforth c.  w. , 2012 , , 752 , 162    v. , 2005 , , 364 , 1105    d. , shull j.  m. , 2013 , , 765 , 119    d. , shull j.  m. , 2014 , , 784 , 42    r.  c. , zheng w. , kriss g.  a. , davidsen a.  f. , 2002 , , 565 , 773    t. , zaroubi s. , kim t .- s .",
    ", tzanavaris p. , carswell r.  f. , 2002 , , 332 , 367    d. , omeara j.  m. , suzuki n. , kirkman d. , lubin d. , orin a. , 2004 , , 128 , 1058    p. , schaeffer r. , silk j. , 2002 , , 388 , 741    m. , bolton j.  s. , haehnelt m.  g. , 2009 , , 399 , l39    d.  h. , miralda - escude j. , hernquist l. , katz n. , 1997 , , 490 , 564    g. , prochaska j.  x. , mcquinn m. , dallaglio a. , fechner c. , hennawi j.  f. , reimers d. , richter p. , wisotzki l. , 2011 , , 733 , l24    g. ,",
    "wisotzki l. , 2006 , , 450 , 495    w. , kriss g.  a. , deharveng j .- m . , dixon w.  v. , kruk j.  w. , shull j.  m. , giroux m.  l. , morton d.  c. , williger g.  m. , friedman s.  d. , moos h.  w. , 2004 , , 605 , 631",
    "in this section we demonstrate that , in the curvature analysis of a particular sample of sight - lines , calibrating the lyman-@xmath3 forest simulations with the effective optical depth of the sample provides robust measurements of the temperature at the characteristic overdensities .",
    "we will show how , even if different @xmath74 calibrations produce different characteristic overdensities [ @xmath64 ; see section 6.3 ] , the temperature measurements , @xmath13 , at each redshift will not be affected significantly by systematic effects related to possible biases in the sample selection .",
    "instead , discrepancies in the characteristic overdensities will shift the derived temperature at the mean density .",
    "nevertheless , this effect in the @xmath9 values will be modest , causing a disparity at the level of the observational 1-@xmath42 error bars .",
    "the test can be summarized as follows .",
    "we randomly select two sub - samples of 300 spectral sections from the suite of simulations of one thermal history .",
    "one of the sub - samples is selected in a biased way to result in a higher effective optical depth than the other ; this difference is designed to be similar to that observed between the uves sample used in this work and the sample adopted in the previous work of @xcite . treating the two sub - samples as observational data , we analyse them separately with the curvature method presented in section 4 and",
    "obtain the corresponding @xmath13 and @xmath9 measurements .",
    "the two sets of @xmath13 are found not to differ significantly , while a modest shift in the @xmath9 values is observed due to discrepancies in the recovered @xmath30 values at each redshift .",
    "the details of this test are described below .",
    "we chose the 1024 synthetic sections of our fiducial simulation c15 ( see table 4 ) as the `` global '' sample from which to select , at each redshift , two sub - samples of @xmath75 sections with two slightly different mean @xmath74 that would simulate two random observational samples .",
    "we deliberately biased the mean optical depth of the second sub - sample towards higher values using the method explained in fig .",
    "[ fig : selection1 ] : we fit a gaussian function to the global distribution of mean fluxes ( at @xmath76 in the example shown in the figure ) from all 1024 sections of the c15 simulation and used this , and a shifted version of it , as the probability distributions for selecting sections randomly for the two sub - samples of 300 sections each . by construction , the first subsample",
    " which we call the ` standard sub - sample ' for clarity  will have a mean @xmath74 very close to the global mean .",
    "however , the mean optical depth of the second sub - sample  called the ` biased sub - sample '  is selected from the same probability distribution shifted slightly to lower mean fluxes , so it results in a higher mean @xmath74 . the shift in the probability distribution",
    "was tuned so that difference in the mean @xmath74 at each redshift reflected the difference observed between our real uves sample and the data used by @xcite .",
    "the results of the sub - sample selection are presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : selection2 ] where we show the positions on the absolute curvature  mean @xmath74 plane of all the sections from simulation c15 at @xmath76 .",
    "as expected , the distribution of mean @xmath74 and curvature in the standard sub - sample is very similar to the parent distribution .",
    "also , while noting that , by construction , the biased sub - sample has a higher mean @xmath74 than the standard sub - sample , we also see that the mean curvature of the biased sub - sample is very similar to the parent distribution .",
    "the sub - sample selection therefore should allow a test of the effect of selecting an observational sample with a higher mean @xmath74 on the measured @xmath13 values .",
    "for all the 1024 sections of the simulation c15 .",
    "two sub - samples have been selected following the probability distributions of the two gaussian curves .",
    "the solid red curve was fit directly to the flux distribution and was used to select the standard sub - sample .",
    "the dashed green curve has the same fwhm but its mean value was shifted toward lower fluxes to allow the selection of the biased sub - sample with a higher mean optical depth.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]     distribution as a function of the effective optical depth of the spectral sections at @xmath76 of the simulation c15 .",
    "the open black circles represent synthetic sections and the different colored solid symbols show the sub - sample selection results : red points represent the standard sub - sample while the green triangles represent the biased sub - sample with higher mean optical depth .",
    "sections that fall in both sub - samples are also indicated as yellow squares.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]      after the selection of the two sub - samples we treated them as two separate observational datasets and we analysed the curvature following the steps presented in section 4 .",
    "that is , at each redshift and for each sub - sample , we computed the @xmath77 values and measured @xmath13 after calibrating all the simulations ( from all thermal histories ) with the mean @xmath74 found in that particular sub - sample . finally , using the t@xmath23 relation , we derived the values of @xmath9 under the assumption of @xmath78 ( corresponding to the chosen thermal history c15 ) .",
    "as expected , calibrating the simulations with the two different effective optical depths gave slightly different values for the @xmath30 at each redshift of the two sub - samples .",
    "however , we find excellent agreement between the @xmath13 values for the two sub - samples , as shown in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : tdifference ] .",
    "there we also plot the difference between the @xmath13 values , @xmath79 , from the two sub - samples at each redshift in the lower panel .",
    "this difference is @xmath80k at all redshifts and typically than 800k . considering that the temperature measurements at the characteristic overdensities presented in this work have a minimum @xmath81 error bar of @xmath82,k",
    ", these @xmath79 all fall inside the current statistical uncertainty budget .",
    "also , we expect small , non - zero values of @xmath79 , and small variations with redshift , due to the sample variance connected with the selection of the sub - samples . in general , we can conclude that calibration of the simulations with the effective optical depth of the particular observational sample being analysed results in a self - consistent measurement of @xmath13 .    in terms of the temperature values at the mean density , we find that the biased sub - sample produces a systematically higher temperature , as expected ( top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : t0difference ] ) .",
    "this discrepancy is due to the slightly different values of @xmath30 at each redshift in the two different sub - samples .",
    "however , it is still modest and is generally below the minimum 1-@xmath42 uncertainty of the measurements presented in this work ( lower panel in fig .",
    "[ fig : t0difference ] ) .",
    "values computed from the curvature analysis of the two synthetic sub - samples .",
    "lower panel : difference in @xmath13 between the standard and biased sub - samples , @xmath79 .",
    "the discrepancy between the temperature values is shown as a function of redshift ( blue squares ) and the minimum 1@xmath42 error bar observed in the uves sample in this work ( see table 4 ) is given by the red dashed line for comparison.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]     values computed from the @xmath13 measurements of the two synthetic sub - samples under the assumption of @xmath78 .",
    "lower panel : difference in @xmath9 between the standard and biased sub - samples , @xmath83 .",
    "the discrepancy between the temperature values is shown as a function of redshift ( blue squares ) and the minimum 1-@xmath42 error bar observed in the uves sample in this work ( see table 4 ) is given by the red dashed line for comparison.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> according to the photo - heating model of the intergalactic medium ( igm ) , he ii reionization is expected to affect its thermal evolution . </S>",
    "<S> evidence for additional energy injection into the igm has been found at @xmath0 , though the evidence for the subsequent fall - off below @xmath1 is weaker and depends on the slope of the temperature  density relation , @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> here we present , for the first time , an extension of the igm temperature measurements down to the atmospheric cut - off of the h i lyman-@xmath3 forest at @xmath4 . applying the curvature method on a sample of 60 uves spectra we investigated the thermal history of the igm at @xmath5 with precision comparable to the higher redshift results . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the temperature of the cosmic gas traced by the ly-@xmath3 forest [ @xmath6 $ ] increases for increasing overdensity from @xmath7 k to 33740 k in the redshift range @xmath8 . under the assumption of two reasonable values for @xmath2 , </S>",
    "<S> the temperature at the mean density ( @xmath9 ) shows a tendency to flatten at @xmath10 . in the case of @xmath11 , </S>",
    "<S> our results are consistent with previous ones which indicate a falling @xmath9 for redshifts @xmath12 . </S>",
    "<S> finally , our @xmath13 values show reasonable agreement with moderate blazar heating models .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    intergalactic medium  quasar : absorption lines  cosmology : observations </S>"
  ]
}