{
  "article_text": [
    "the study of gross properties of bulk self - gravitating objects using thomas - fermi model has been discussed in a very lucid manner in the text book on statistical physics by landau and lifshitz @xcite . in this book",
    "the model has also been extended for the bulk system with ultra - relativistic electrons as one of the constituents .",
    "analogous to the conventional white dwarf model , these electrons in both non - relativistic and ultra - relativistic cases provide degeneracy pressure to make the bulk system stable against gravitational collapse .",
    "the results are therefore an alternative to lane - emden equation or chandrasekhar equation @xcite .",
    "the mathematical formalism along with the numerical estimates of various parameters , e.g. , mass , radius , etc . for white dwarf stars",
    "may be taught as standard astrophysical problems in the master of science level classes for the students having astrophysics and cosmology as spacial paper .",
    "the standard version of thomas - fermi model has also been taught in the m.sc level atomic physics and statistical mechanics general classes .",
    "more than two decades ago , bhaduri et.al . @xcite",
    "have developed a formalism for thomas - fermi model for a two dimensional atom .",
    "the problem can also be given to the advanced level m.sc .",
    "students in the quantum mechanics classes . the numerical evaluation of various quantities associated with the two dimensional atoms",
    "are also found to be useful for the  students to learn numerical techniques , computer programing along with the physics of the problem . the work of bhaduri et.al .",
    "is an extension of standard thomas - fermi model for heavy atoms into two - dimensional scenario . a two - dimensional version of thomas - fermi model has also been used to study the stability and some of the gross properties of two - dimensional star cluster @xcite . in our opinion",
    "this is the first attempt to apply thomas - fermi model to two - dimensional gravitating object .",
    "however , to the best of our knowledge the two - dimensional generalization of thomas - fermi model to study gross properties of bulk self - gravitating objects , e.g. , white dwarfs has not been reported earlier .",
    "this problem can also be treated as standard m.sc level class problem for the advanced level students with astrophysics and cosmology as special paper . in this article",
    "we shall therefore develop a formalism for two dimensional version of thomas - fermi model to investigate some of the gross properties of two - dimensional hypothetical white dwarf stars .",
    "the work is essentially an extension of the standard three - dimensional problem which is discussed in the statistical physics book by landau and lifshitz @xcite .",
    "the motivation of this work is to study newtonian gravity in two - dimension .",
    "analogous coulomb problem with logarithmic type potential has been investigated in an extensive manner . however , the identical problem for gravitating objects has not been thoroughly studied ( except in @xcite ) .",
    "one can use this two - dimensional gravitational picture as a model calculation to study the stability of giant molecular cloud during star formation and also in galaxy formation .",
    "the article is arranged in the following manner . in the next section",
    "we have developed the basic mathematical formalism for a two - dimensional hypothetical white dwarf star . in section - iii , we have investigated the gross properties of white dwarf stars in two - dimension . in section - iv ,",
    "the stability of two - dimensional white dwarfs with ultra - relativistic electrons as one of the constituents have been studied . finally in the last section we have given the conclusion of this work .",
    "in this section we start with the conventional form of poisson s equation , given by @xcite ( see also @xcite ) @xmath0 where @xmath1 is the gravitational potential , @xmath2 is the surface density of matter and for the two - dimensional scenario @xmath3 has to be expressed in its two - dimensional form .",
    "let us assume that the bulk object in two dimensional geometry is an hypothetical white dwarf star for which the inward gravitational pressure is balanced by the outward degeneracy pressure of the two dimensional electron gas .",
    "the mass of the object is coming from the heavy nuclei distributed in two - dimensional bounded geometry .    now the fermi energy for a two dimensional electron gas is given by @xmath4    where @xmath5 and @xmath6 are respectively the fermi momentum and the mass of the electrons .",
    "further , the number of electrons per unit surface area is given by @xmath7 hence the electron fermi energy is @xmath8 let @xmath9 is the baryon mass per electron @xcite , then it can very easily be shown that @xmath10 where @xmath2 is the mass density ( mass per unit area ) of the matter . then following @xcite ,",
    "the thomas - fermi condition is given by @xmath11    since @xmath1 is a function of radial coordinate @xmath12 , the chemical potential @xmath13 and the matter density @xmath2 also depend on the radial coordinate @xmath12 . then replacing the gravitational potential @xmath1 with the electron fermi energy @xmath13 from eqn.(6 ) , the poisson s equation ( eqn.(1 ) )",
    "can be written as @xmath14 assuming circular symmetry i.e. , independent of @xmath15 coordinate , replacing @xmath16 by @xmath17 from eqn.(5 ) and expressing @xmath3 in two - dimensional polar form , we have from eqn.(7 ) @xmath18 substituting @xmath19 , where @xmath20 may be called the scaled radial coordinate with the constant @xmath21 we can write down the poisson s equation in the following form @xmath22 it is quite obvious that in this case the solution is given by @xcite @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the ordinary bessel function of order zero .",
    "the surface of the two - dimensional bulk object is obtained from the first zero @xmath25(say ) of the bessel function @xmath24 , i.e. , @xmath26 hence the radius of the object is given by @xmath27 .",
    "further , at the centre , i.e. , for @xmath28 , @xmath29 therefore the solution can also be written in the form @xmath30 hence the central density is given by @xmath31 therefore we can also write @xmath32 gives the variation of matter density with @xmath33",
    "with circular symmetry , the poisson s equation in polar coordinate can also be written in the following form @xmath34 let us now integrate this differential equation with respect to r from @xmath35 , which is the centre to @xmath36 , the surface of the bulk two dimensional stellar object",
    ". then we have @xmath37 where @xmath38 the mass of the object . now expressing @xmath1 in terms of @xmath13 and using the solution for @xmath13 ( eqn.(14 ) )",
    ", we finally get @xmath39 where we have used the standard relation @xmath40 @xcite .",
    "therefore this transcendental equation ( eqn.(20 ) ) can be solved numerically to get mass - radius relation for the two - dimensional stellar objects in thomas - fermi model in the non - relativistic scenario . in fig.(1 ) , we have shown graphically the form of mass radius relation for such objects .",
    "for the sake of illustration we have chosen the central density @xmath41 in such a manner that the maximum mass of the object is @xmath42 .",
    "the average density can also be obtained from the definition @xmath43 which can be expressed in terms of central density , and is given by @xmath44",
    "in this section following @xcite we have considered a two - dimensional hypothetical white dwarf star composed of massive ions and degenerate ultra - relativistic electron gas in two - dimensional geometrical configuration .",
    "the stability of the object is governed by electron degeneracy pressure . in the ultra - relativistic scenario",
    "the energy of an electron is given by the usual expression @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the velocity of light and @xmath47 is the electron momentum .",
    "the fermi energy for this degenerate electron gas is then given by @xmath48 with @xmath49 , the electron fermi momentum . hence the number density ( the surface value ) for ultra - relativistic electron gas can be written in the following form @xmath50 therefore the electron fermi energy @xmath51 where @xmath52 and @xmath2 is the mass density for such ultra - relativistic matter .    then following eqn.(7 ) , we have the thomas - fermi equation in two - dimension in the ultra - relativistic electron gas scenario @xmath53 where @xmath20 is the scaled radial coordinate and the constant @xmath54 unfortunately the non - linear differential equation given by eqn.(27 ) can not be solved analytically . to obtain its numerical solution",
    "we have used the standard four point runge - kutta numerical technique and a code is written in fortran 77 to solve eqn.(27 ) using the initial conditions ( i ) @xmath55 , at @xmath28 ( which indicates the origin of the two - dimensional white dwarf ) , which is the maximum value of @xmath13 , then as a consequence ( ii ) @xmath56 , the other initial condition . the surface of this bulk two - dimensional object",
    "is then obtained from the boundary condition @xmath57 , with @xmath25 the scaled radius parameter . from the numerical solution of eqn.(27 ) with the initial conditions ( i ) and ( ii ) , the actual value of the radius can be obtained . as a cross check ,",
    "we have used mathematica in linux platform and got almost same result . in our formalism , instead of solving for the gravitational potential in two - dimension , we have solved numerically for the electron chemical potential with the initial conditions ( i ) and ( ii ) . the initial condition ( i ) depends on the central density @xmath41 , which we have supplied by hand as input . in the non - relativistic case by trial and error method",
    "we have fixed the value @xmath58 g @xmath59 to get @xmath60 .",
    "whereas in the ultra - relativistic electron gas scenario , we have started from @xmath61 g @xmath59 and gone upto @xmath62 g @xmath63 .",
    "since we are solving numerically for @xmath13 and the central density is supplied by hand , the singularity at the origin ( @xmath28 ) does not appear in our analysis .",
    "singularity at the origin also do not appear when lane - emden equation ( newtonian picture ) and tov equation ( general relativistic scenario ) are solved numerically by supplying the central density by hand . in this case",
    "the mass - radius relation can also be derived from eqn.(17 ) with @xmath1 replaced by @xmath13 from eqn.(6 ) , the thoma - fermi condition , and is given by @xmath64 unlike the non - relativistic scenario , in this case the derivative term at the surface has to be obtained from the numerical solution of thomas - fermi equation ( eqn.(27 ) ) . in fig.(2 ) we have shown the graphical form of mass radius relation for the ultra - relativistic case .",
    "the qualitative nature of fig.(1 ) and fig.(2 ) are completely different . unlike the non - relativistic situation , where the mass radius relation is obtained only for a particular central density , in this case each point on the m - r curve corresponds a particular central density .",
    "this is obvious from the initial condition ( i ) , where @xmath41 is the given central density . since the central density has a fixed value in the non - relativistic scenario , the mass of the object increases with the increase of its radius . to make these two figures more understandable , in fig.(3 ) and",
    "fig.(4 ) we have plotted the variations of mass and radius respectively for the object against the central density in the ultra - relativistic scenario . in fig.(3 ) we have plotted the mass of the object expressed in terms of solar mass , with the central density of the object expressed in terms of normal nuclear density . in fig.(4 ) we have shown the variation of radius of the object with central density . from the study of density profiles of the object in the ultra - relativistic scenario ,",
    "we have noticed that for the low value of the central density , the numerical solution of eqn.(27 ) shows that the matter density vanishes or becomes negligibly small for quite large radius value , whereas for very high central density , the matter density vanishes very quickly .",
    "therefore in this model the stellar objects with very low central density are large in size and since the matter density is low enough , the mass is also quite small . on the other hand for the large values of central density , the objects are small in size , i.e. , they are quite compact in size but massive enough .",
    "this study explains the nature of variations of mass and radius with central density for the ultra - relativistic case .",
    "further in ultra - relativistic scenario the average density of matter inside the bulk two - dimensional stellar object is given by @xmath65 which exactly like the non - relativistic case also depends on the central density and the radius of the object .",
    "however , unlike the non - relativistic situation , here the average density depends on the surface value of the gradient of electron fermi energy , which has to be obtained numerically from the solution of eqn.(27 ) .",
    "in conclusion we would like to comment that although the formalism developed here is for a hypothetical stellar object , which is basically an extension of standard three dimensional problem discussed in the book by landau & lifshitz , we strongly believe that it may be considered as interesting post - graduate level problem for the physics students , including its numerical part .",
    "this problem can also be treated as a part of dissertation project for post graduate physics students .",
    "the study of thomas - fermi model in two - dimension for self - gravitating objects may be used for model calculations of star formation and galaxy formation from giant gaseous cloud .",
    "finally , we believe that the problem solved here has some academic interest .      l.d .",
    "landau and e.m lifshitz , statistical physics , part - i , butterworth / heinemann , oxford , ( 1998 ) pp .",
    "shapiro and s.a .",
    "teukolsky , black holes , white dwarfs and neutron stars , john wiley and sons , new york , ( 1983 ) pp .",
    "61 and 188 .",
    "h.q . huang and k , n , yu , stellar astrophysics , springer , ( 1998 ) , pp . 337 .",
    "r.k bhaduri , s das gupta and s.j lee , am .",
    "j. phys . ,",
    "* 58 * ( 1990 ) 983 .",
    "sanudo , a.f .",
    "pacheco , revista mexicana de fisica , * e53 * , ( 2006 ) 82 .",
    "sanu engineer , k. srinivasan and t. padmanabhan , astrophys .",
    "* 512 * , ( 1999 ) 1 .",
    "m. abramowitz and i.a stegun ( ed . ) , handbook of mathematical functions , dovar publication , ny , ( 1972 ) pp ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this article we have solved an hypothetical problem related to the stability and gross properties of two dimensional self - gravitating stellar objects using thomas - fermi model . </S>",
    "<S> the formalism presented here is an extension of the standard three - dimensional problem discussed in the book on statistical physics , part - i by landau and lifshitz . </S>",
    "<S> further , the formalism presented in this article may be considered as class problem for post - graduate level students of physics or may be assigned as a part of their dissertation project . </S>"
  ]
}