{
  "article_text": [
    "recently , quantitative research of human dynamics on web has been enabled thanks to a large amount of empirical data that are systematically accumulated at the various web portals .",
    "this opened a new avenue of quantitative social science @xcite .",
    "online social dynamics constitute a complex system , in which micro - conceptions of global behaviors only began to reveal the working mechanisms of new emergent phenomena @xcite . in analogy to complex systems in the physics laboratory , research methods and concepts of statistical physics",
    "are essential for finding how the global features emerge from particular actions in human interacting systems . however , in contrast to the laboratory physical systems , human qualities  i.e . , cognition and emotion  play an important role in forming the dynamics at a microscopic scale . in order to take into account these features of human dynamics correctly , in recent years",
    "interdisciplinary research approaches are being developed .",
    "specifically , the methods of statistical physics and graph theory , on one side , in synergy with machine - learning methods of text analysis , on the other , have been considered .",
    "it should be stressed that , each of these approaches alone takes into account a specific aspect of the human dynamics and potentially avoids the whole story . in particular",
    ", machine - learning methods can extract information and emotion from written text ( for a recent review of methods see @xcite ) ; however , this feature , observed at microscale ( i.e. , in each message separately ) , need to be suitably incorporated into a stochastic process in order to see its effects at a large scale",
    ". similarly , the physics theory of complex systems , without these microscopic features of individual users and their messages over time , would remain at phenomenological level , thus without a predictive power for a concrete social system .",
    "moreover , the graph - theory methods , which provide a formal mathematical framework for quantitative analysis of these systems , need a thoughtful concept from the theory of complex systems in order to , firstly , build an appropriate graph of the considered dynamical system and , secondly , to concentrate on its relevant features .",
    "these three methodologies used in synergy have been successfully applied in the quantitative analysis of collective social behaviors in which emotions play a role , specifically in the empirical data from blogs @xcite , diggs @xcite , forums @xcite , online games @xcite , online social networks @xcite , ` twitter ` @xcite , online chats @xcite and others .",
    "it has been shown that , depending on the type of interaction between users ( direct versus indirect ) in accordance with a specific use of emotions which are expressed in the text messages that are exchanged between users , different classes of online social networks emerge through the self - organized dynamics on web portals @xcite .",
    "apart from online social networks ` myspace ` and ` facebook ` where a priori a kind of social graph exists , in all other circumstances the co - evolution of a network structure occurs together with the underlying stochastic process of human interactions @xcite .    in analogy to the above mentioned data analysis , in mathematical modeling of social dynamics a list of human attributes",
    "needs to be taken into account @xcite . for these purposes ,",
    "the appropriate framework is provided by the agent - based modeling approach , where emotional agents are located on ( evolving ) social networks @xcite .",
    "in addition to human users , the presence of artificial systems , e.g. bots is common in the virtual world . the bots with different functions ( suggesting goods , trading on the stock market , social gaming , etc ) may interact with the real users either directly or indirectly .",
    "in these interactions , often requiring an emotional impact , the bots may become very effective , outperforming human users .",
    "the underlying mechanisms that help the bots performance rely on the long - range correlations among users and efficient propagation of emotion through the social graph @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we employ recently developed agent - based model of chats with emotional bots in order to _ extend _ an experiment with bot  user dialogs into the interacting environment of social networks .",
    "the experiment that we consider was done with three emotional bots , i.e. , affective dialog systems @xcite and a limited number of separated users in their natural environments . in the remaining part of the paper ,",
    "we first describe the experiment and use graph - theory methods to reveal the structure in the experimental data .",
    "then , we implement the same experimental bots into the system of interacting agents ; performing the simulations and analyzing the simulated data , we get a number of new results that quantify the bot s impact on the entire network of agents . finally , to evaluate the network effect onto the agents which are in direct contacts with the bot , we compare the simulated data of these interacting agents with the empirical data containing the same number of isolated users .",
    "the parameters used in the simulation ( see section  [ sec - abmbotexp ] ) are extracted from experiments in which users interacted with a variant of _ conversational bot - affective dialog system _ @xcite .",
    "the aim of the experiment was to study how different affective profiles i.e. , positive , negative , neutral @xcite used by the bot influence communication patterns , affective responses of participants and further how do they relate to the experienced emotional changes .",
    "below we present and overview of the system applied in the experiment and closer introduce the concept of _ artificial affective profile_. the detailed description of the system software framework and its core components is presented in @xcite ; the extensive overview of settings and results obtained in this round of experimens in @xcite .",
    "the affective dialog system ( ds ) communicates with users in a textual modality , in a natural language form , and uses integrated affective components for detecting textual expressions of users affective states .",
    "the system interacts with users via a range of communication channels and interfaces that share common characteristics of online chatting .    at the top - level",
    "the system architecture includes 3 main layers : perception , control and communication .",
    "the perception layer annotates user s and system s response candidates .",
    "it uses a set of natural language processing and affective processing tools and resources @xcite .",
    "based on the information cues from the perception layer , the control layer selects and , if required , alters system response candidates . also , the layer manages dialog progression accounting for its context and the applied affective profile .",
    "the control layer uses an information state based dialog management component : affect listener dialog scripting ( alds ) @xcite for the closed - domain and task - oriented parts of the dialog . for the open - domain chats , a template based mechanism and response generation instructions - ab - aiml @xcite ,",
    "are applied .",
    "the system s affective profile influences the selection of both alds scenarios and subsets of ab - aiml response instructions . for the remaining system response candidates",
    "for which no specific affective profile dependent interaction scenarios or response instructions are available , a post - precessing is applied , i.e. , addition , removal of positive or negative words .",
    "this mechanism aims at aligning the affective load , i.e. valence of system response candidates with the selected affective profile @xcite .    for the purpose of the experiment , an _ artificial affective profile",
    "_ was defined as a coarse - grained emulation of affective characteristics of an individual , corresponding to dominant , observable affective traits , that can be consistently conveyed by a conversational bot during the course of its interactions with users @xcite . in particular , three distinct affective profiles were implemented  labeled as positive , negative and neutral . each affective profile aimed at a consistent demonstration of character traits of the system that are described as , respectively :    * ` positivebot ` : polite , cooperative , empathic , supporting , focusing on similarities with a user ; * ` negativebot ` : conflicting , confronting , focusing on differences with a user ; * ` neutralbot ` : professional , focused on the job , not responding to expressions of affect .",
    "the study directly addressed the research questions about the artificial system s ability to consistently imitate affective profiles , validates the methods applied and further enables to measure their effects in interactions @xcite .      during the experiment ,",
    "participants were in their `` natural environment '' - a place where they usually use the internet , which is assumed to make them more receptive as well as spontaneous .",
    "for the majority of participants , english , the language in which the experiments were conducted , was not their native language , but all users who completed the set of interactions had at least average communicative skills in this language . the usage of non - native languages in online interaction environments is a frequent phenomenon and provides the motivation for studying this type of communication .",
    "the study was conducted using a browser - based communication interface , resembling a typical web chat - room environment : a user input field at the bottom of the screen and a log of communication in the center .",
    "participants interacted with the bot which applied three different affective profiles ( positive , neutral and negative ) in turn , once with each . to avoid ordering effects in the evaluation of the different system realizations , the actual sequence was randomly and evenly assigned .",
    "the evaluation statements were also displayed to users before the start of the first interaction to familiarize themselves with rating .",
    "these statements were :    1 .",
    "i enjoyed chatting with the conversational partner during the just completed interaction .",
    "i found a kind of `` emotional connection '' between myself and the conversational partner .",
    "i found the dialog with the conversational partner to be realistic .",
    "i found the dialog to be coherent .",
    "in other words , the sequence of responses of the conversational partner made sense .",
    "i noticed a positive emotional change in myself during the interaction .",
    "i noticed a negative emotional change in myself during the interaction .",
    "i would like to chat again with this particular conversational partner in the future .",
    "after each experimental condition i.e. , interaction with the bot which applied a selected affective profile , participants were asked to express their agreement or disagreement with the statements on a five - point likert scale , i.e. , from 1 @xmath5 _ strongly disagree _ to 5 @xmath5 _ strongly agree_. participants were aware that they were chatting with an artificial system .",
    "they interacted with the bot in an unsupervised manner .",
    "interactions were always initiated by the bot , i.e. the system provided the first utterance , and stopped after 7 minutes with a closing response , followed by the display of the questionnaire .    before the experiment was initiated ,",
    "the participants were instructed to freely chat with the bot .",
    "no additional , more detailed guidelines were given to avoid artificial constraints , e.g. , the communication strategy applied by participants .",
    "interactions were completed by 91 participants ( 33 female , 58 male ) , aged between 18 and 52 , in all three experimental settings resulting in 273 interaction logs .",
    "_ data annotation : _ the analysis of the presented data - set was conducted with a set of natural language processing and affective processing tools and resources , including : support vector machine based dialog act classifier@xcite , lexicon based sentiment classifier@xcite , linguistic inquiry and word count dictionary@xcite , anew dictionary based classifier @xcite .",
    "further , we analyzed timing information and surface features of participants communication style such as wordiness and usage of emoticons .",
    "for the purpose of this work , we use the emotional attributes  arousal and valence  of each message in the dialogs with bots .",
    "these attributes are determined by the classifier which uses * anew*[anew]affective norms for english words dictionary .",
    "the dictionary is based on the assumption that emotion can be defined as a coincidence of values on a number of strategic dimensions @xcite and includes a set of 1,034 commonly used words , including verbs , nouns and adjectives .",
    "it provides information on emotional content of an input string , in three affective dimensions : valence , arousal and dominance , on the scale from 1 ( very unpleasant , low arousal , low dominance / control ) to 9 ( very pleasant , high arousal , high dominance / control ) .",
    "for example `` shark '' has the following mean score for the three presented affective dimensions ( valence - 3.65 , arousal - 7,16 , dominance - 2.16 ) .",
    "the scores for `` victory '' : ( valence - 8.32 , arousal - 6,63 , dominance - 7.26 ) .",
    "_ effects of affective profile on system s evaluation and emotional changes : _ the affective profile had a series of significant effects on the evaluation of the bot and on users emotional changes .",
    "detailed results of the analyses performed are presented in @xcite and @xcite . concerning evaluation ,",
    "the affective profile had significant effects on all dependent measures ( see figure  [ stat2 ] ) .",
    "the largest effect sizes were found on statements 5 and 6 ( positive and negative emotional change , respectively ) .",
    "as expected , the bot s affective profiles successfully induced corresponding emotional changes in users , affecting perception of dialog realism and coherence only to a smaller extent .    .",
    "]    _ effects of affective profile on users interaction style and expressions of affective states : _ users were equally fast in replying to different affective profiles .",
    "in particular , when analyzing the whole interactions , there were no differences in the participants average response time to a number of letters generated .",
    "participants also used an equal amount of words and utterances in their conversations with the bot , regardless of the applied affective profile .",
    "there were , however , significant differences in word categories used and other linguistic aspects of the text input .    the analysis of ratings obtained from anew classifier for participants utterances , revealed the effect of the applied affective profile .",
    "specifically , the negative affective profile elicited lower valence , arousal and dominance , i.e. mean ratings from anew classifier assigned to the participants utterances ( see figure  [ scanew ] ) .",
    "consequently , it can be seen , that users in their interactions with the negative version of the bot assumed rather passive stance towards it and neither attempted to retaliate nor dominate it .",
    "conclusion : among others , compared with the positive profile , the negative profile elicited less assent ( e.g. , ok , yes , agree ) from users , fewer positive emotion words , more anger - related words , and in overall , significantly lower valence .",
    "the positive profile , contrary , elicited accordingly more positive emoticons , more positive emotion words ( e.g. , nice , love ) , more user statements , and less closed questions to the system .",
    "the two latter findings also indicate more information disclosure and less questioning from users towards the positive profile , compared to the negative profile .",
    "the three different affective profiles used by the bot did not influence users interaction style , in aspects related to e.g. response time or wordiness .    .",
    "]      for each of three bots , the empirical data consists of 91 pairs of time series of a bot s messages ( arousal and valence sequence ) and the corresponding user s arousal and valence time series .",
    "for example , the fluctuations of emotional valence deduced from the answer of the first seven users in the dialogs with the emotional bots are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig - matrixexp]a . in total",
    ", we have 3x91x2x2 separate sequences with emotional content to be analyzed . here",
    ", we use network theory methods to extract patterns of similar response of users to each particular profile of the bot . creating a correlation matrix",
    "is a first step to infer such information from multichannel data ; it has been practiced in the analysis of large throughput gene expression experiments @xcite , classifying similar force - distance curves in repeated force - spectroscopy measurements of molecular forces @xcite , finding relevant correlations in fluctuations of different shares in stock market @xcite and identifying patterns in traffic jamming @xcite . here ,",
    "we construct pearson s coefficient @xmath6 of the valence time series between all pairs of users , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , and focus on positive correlations only .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we have studied appearance of groups and their collective behaviors that can be induced by emotional interactions with conversational bots which conveyed different affective profiles , i.e. , positive , negative and neutral . considered",
    "are both the experimental environment , containing isolated users , and a social network environment , simulated within a suitable agent - based model . in both situations ,",
    "the bots with exactly same emotional profiles ( the same sequence of emotional messages ) are employed .    to quantify the collective behaviors ,",
    "we have analyzed the underlying stochastic process of emotional chats simulated with the agent - based model ; for this purpose , the physics theory of complex systems is used in accordance with graph theoretical methods .",
    "in addition , for analysis of the empirical data the algorithms for text analysis , which can extract emotional contents from communicated text messages , were employed .",
    "the hallmarks of the chat process at a large scale are the self - organization , persistence and temporal clustering of emotional events .",
    "the present analysis suggests ( see also @xcite ) that namely these features of the emotional chat processes enable the bots to spread their influence on the entire network of agents , while communicating with a limited number of agents .",
    "the power spectrum , hurst exponents and statistics of avalanches of emotional messages that are computed in section  [ sec - spreading ] , provide the corresponding quantitative measures of the collective behaviors of agents in the presence of the bots .",
    "apart from quantitative differences , the temporal correlations , as well as the persistence of the process , are similar for bots of all emotional profiles .",
    "however , the valence of the bot s messages and messages of the agents communicated to the bot are demonstrated to play a key role in inducing the overall charge of emotional messages in the entire network . in this respect ,",
    "the positive bot is a bit more effective than the negative bot .",
    "consequently , at the statistical level , the excess positive charge leads to increased probability of large positive avalanches .    on the other hand ,",
    "the participation of each individual agent ( user ) in the chat process and in making the network connections is different when the bot s profile is changed . comparing the experimental and simulated data ,",
    "our main findings are summarized here :    * the bots with positive / negative profiles elicit the corresponding emotional reactions by users ( and agents ) ; the analysis of users ( and agents ) messages directed to the bot reveals that their valence largely coincide with the bot s profile .",
    "in addition , such conclusion is confirmed directly by users in the related questionnaire , as a part of the experiment . * the score of positive emotion words in the presence of the positive bot is higher than the score of negative emotion words in the case when the negative bot is active . as possible reasons , we notice that , in the experiment , the users know that they are communicating with a machine . hence , they assume rather `` passive '' stance ; their emotion in the related responses might have been different in a setup where they would interact , e.g. , with other users with such characteristics .",
    "further difference , taken into account by the model , occurs in the scale of arousals of ( often involved ) positive and negative emotions as well as their propagation in the social network . *",
    "the network theory analysis applied to the experimental data suggests that , even though the users are isolated in the chats with the emotional bot , they can be grouped according to the similarity of their emotional reactions to the bot s messages .",
    "thus , these groups might originate from similarity of users psychology profiles . on the other hand ,",
    "when exposed to the influence of a social network , which is simulated by the model , two coherent groups can be identified : a large community carrying the dominant emotion and the opposite emotion group .",
    "a fraction of users that changed the group , when exposed to the social network influence , is larger in the case of negative profile bot than in the positive or neutral bot .    in conclusion , even though the social group activity based on emotional interactions might be seen as a primary subject of social psychology , it is necessary to use the interdisciplinary research to deeper understand ( and possibly control ) a whole range of the related phenomena .",
    "the presented work shows ( see also @xcite for the nonextensive emotion dynamics ) that , in these multidisciplinary approaches , the concepts of physics are indispensable .",
    "specifically , the physics methods reveal the mechanisms in the underlying stochastic processes , through which the social groups emerge from individual actions of users .",
    "furthermore , within physics theory of complex systems , the emergent collective emotional behaviors of the social groups can be quantified in the appropriate way .",
    "* authors contribution : * m. . contributed software for simulations ; m.s .",
    "provided experimental data and contributed sections 2.1 and 2.2 ; v.g . performed network analysis of experimental and simulated data and contributed related figures ; b.t . designed theoretical research , performed simulations and time - series analysis , contributed related figures and wrote the paper .",
    "* acknowledgements : * we are grateful for support from program p1 - 0044 by the research agency of the republic of slovenia and from the european community s program fp7-ict-2008 - 3 under grant no 231323 .",
    "also thanks for partial support from cost action td1210 knowescape . m.s . would also like to thank for support from projects oi171037 and iii41011 of the republic of serbia .",
    "j.  gruji , m.  mitrovi , b.  tadi .",
    "mixing patterns and communities on bipartite graphs on web - based social interactions . in _ digital signal processing , 2009 16th international conference on _ , pages 18 , 2009 .",
    "v.  gligorijevi , m.  skowron , and b.  tadi .",
    "directed networks of online chats : content - based linking and social structure . in _ signal image technology and internet based systems ( sitis ) ,",
    "2012 eighth international conference on _ , ieeexplore , pages 725730 , 2012 .",
    "oi=10.1109/sitis.2012.117              m.  skowron .",
    "affect listeners .",
    "acquisition of affective states by means of conversational systems . in _ development of multimodal interfaces -",
    "active listening and synchrony _ , lncs , pages 169181 .",
    "springer , 2010 .",
    "m. skowron , s. rank , m. theunis , j. sienkiewicz .",
    "the good , the bad and the neutral : affective profile in dialog system - user communication . in sidney dmello , arthur graesser , bjrn schuller , and jean - claude martin , editors , _ affective computing and intelligent interaction _ , volume 6974 of _ lecture notes in computer science _ , pages 337346 .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg , 2011 .",
    "m.  skowron , h.  pirker , s.  rank , g.  paltoglou , j.  ahn , s.  gobron .",
    "no peanuts ! affective cues for the virtual bartender . in _ proc . of the florida artificial intelligence research society conf .",
    "flairs , palm beach fl_. aaai press , 2011 .",
    "m.  skowron , m.  theunis , s.  rank , a.  borowiec .",
    "effect of affective profile on communication patterns and affective expressions in interactions with a dialog system . in _ proc .",
    "4th bi - annual affective computing and intelligent interaction conference , memphis tn _ , lncs , pages 347356 .",
    "springer , 2011 .",
    "m.  skowron , g.  paltoglou .",
    "affect bartender - affective cues and their application in a conversational agent . in _",
    "ieee symposium series on computational intelligence 2011 , workshop on affective computational intelligence_. ieee , 2011 .",
    "g.  paltoglou , s.  gobron , m.  skowron , m.  thelwall , d.  thalmann .",
    "sentiment analysis of informal textual communication in cyberspace . in _ in proc .",
    "engage 2010 , springer lncs state - of - the - art survey _ ,",
    "pages 1325 , 2010 .",
    "bradley , p.j .",
    "affective norms for english words ( anew ) : stimuli , instruction manual and affective ratings .",
    "technical report c-1 , the center for research in psychophysiology , univ . of florida , 1999 .",
    "h-l.zeng , y - d .",
    "guo , ch - p .",
    "zhu , m.  mitrovi , b.  tadi .",
    "congestion patterns of traffic studied on nanjing city dual graph . in _ digital signal processing , 2009 16th international conference on _ , ieeexplore , doi:10.1109/icdsp.2009.5201241 , 2009 .",
    "j. ivkovi , m. mitrovi , b. tadi .",
    "correlation patterns in gene expressions along the cell cycle of yeast . in s. fortunato , g. mangioni , r. menezes , v. nicosia , editors , _ complex networks _ , volume 207 of _ studies in computational intelligence _ , pages 2334 .",
    "springer berlin / heidelberg , 2009 .",
    "doi:10.1007/978 - 3 - 642 - 01206 - 8@xmath93 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> quantitative research of emotions in psychology and machine - learning methods for extracting emotion components from text messages open an avenue for physical science to explore the nature of stochastic processes in which emotions play a role , e.g. , in human dynamics online . here , we investigate the occurrence of collective behavior of users that is induced by chats with emotional bots . the bots , designed in an experimental environment , are considered . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , using the agent - based modeling approach , the activity of these experimental bots is simulated within a social network of interacting emotional agents . quantitative analysis of time </S>",
    "<S> series carrying emotional messages by agents suggests temporal correlations and persistent fluctuations with clustering according to emotion similarity . * </S>",
    "<S> all data used in this study are fully anonymized . * + </S>",
    "<S> * keywords : * stochastic processes on networks , interaction agent models , emotion - correlation networks , scaling in social systems     * the dynamics of emotional chats with bots : experiment and agent - based simulations *    bosiljka tadi@xmath0 , vladimir gligorijevi@xmath1 , marcin skowron@xmath2 and milovan uvakov@xmath3 +   @xmath0department of theoretical physics ; joef stefan institute ; box 3000 si-1001 ljubljana slovenia ; @xmath4institute of physics , belgrade , serbia , @xmath2austrian research institute for artificial intelligence , freyung 6/6 , 1010 vienna , austria </S>"
  ]
}