{
  "article_text": [
    "energy production in galaxies is based on two major processes , sometimes mutually contributing to the total energy output .",
    "star formation is the most common process , taking place throughout galaxies , while accretion of matter onto a supermassive black hole in the nucleus is another , less frequent , mechanism of energy production .",
    "the energetic nuclear regions associated with black hole accretion , referred to as active galactic nuclei ( agn ) , are confined to the centers of galaxies .",
    "understanding these processes is key to understanding galaxy evolution , including black hole growth in the center of galaxies , star formation , and possible correlations between them .",
    "activity classification diagnostics provide tools to reveal the dominant energy production mechanism , signifying either processes of star - formation throughout the galaxy , or accretion in the nucleus .",
    "however , the distance dependence of physical size on angular size introduces observational difficulties ( including starlight contamination from the host galaxy ) , making agn identification a difficult and sometimes complex task .",
    "an accurate activity classification scheme that accounts for these complexities is essential to understand energy production in galaxies and subsequently galaxy evolution .",
    "visible emission - line ratio diagnostics are probably the most widely used and best - calibrated method of galaxy activity classification .",
    "baldwin , phillips and terlevich ( 1981 ) , hereafter bpt , and later veilleux and osterbrock @xcite , have shown that emission - line galaxies can be distinguished as star - forming , seyfert , or low - ionization nuclear emission - line regions @xcite using the intensity ratios of two pairs of emission lines .",
    "three standard diagnostic diagrams are used , based on [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 , [ nii ]  @xmath06583/h@xmath2 , [ sii ]  @xmath36716 , 6731/h@xmath2 , or [ oi ]  @xmath06300/h@xmath2 . because the relative intensity of spectral lines of different excitation energy depends on the hardness of the ionizing continuum , galaxies with different sources of ionizing radiation occupy different locations in the diagrams .",
    "kewley et al .",
    "@xcite defined a theoretical upper limit on the location of star - forming galaxies in the bpt diagrams using h ii region model spectra .",
    "later kauffmann et al .",
    "@xcite defined an empirical line delineating the pure star - forming galaxies in the [ oiii]@xmath05007/h@xmath1 versus [ nii ]  @xmath06583/h@xmath2 diagnostic diagram based on a sample of 122,808 galaxies from the sloan digital sky survey @xcite . in between the empirical pure starburst and",
    "the theoretical maximum starburst lines lie the composite or transition objects ( to ) , introduced by ho , filippenko & sargent @xcite , which may have both star - burst and agn activities .",
    "a refinement of the bpt diagrams was introduced by kewley et al .",
    "@xcite , who calculated the distinguishing line that separates seyferts and liners on the standard optical diagnostic diagrams of [ sii ]  @xmath36716 , 6731/h@xmath2 and [ oi ]  @xmath06300/h@xmath2 .",
    "the activity classification obtained with visible - light diagnostic diagrams should be treated with caution .",
    "in general , the emission - line spectra of galaxy nuclei will be contaminated to some degree by unrelated stellar light that falls in the aperture ; the problem is worse at high redshifts . in early - type galaxies in particular , where evolved stars dominate the light from galaxy bulges , absorption features in the stellar spectra will affect the strength of most emission lines .",
    "a demonstration of this effect was presented by moran et al .",
    "@xcite for distant galaxies , where their angular diameters were comparable to the widths of the slits used to measure their spectrum .",
    "moran et al . obtained integrated and nuclear spectra of nearby seyfert 2 galaxies , known to be absorbed x - ray sources , and showed that in their integrated spectra the emission lines were far less prominent or even completely obliterated compared to their respective nuclear spectra .",
    "these effects could result in a different activity classification of a galaxy depending on the region used to extract its spectrum .",
    "the effect becomes very important in the case of sdss spectra of distant galaxies , where the 3@xmath4 diameter fibers used by sdss may include a large portion of host galaxy s starlight or in some cases the whole galaxy s light .",
    "it is important to address this issue and examine if starlight subtraction methods are capable of correcting it .    over the last decade",
    "starlight subtraction methods that can estimate and subtract the contamination by the host galaxy have been introduced ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "one of the most common approaches for starlight subtraction involves the use of templates , derived from spectra of several different galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "more recent methods ( e.g. , starlight ; @xcite ) fit a model spectrum constructed from population synthesis techniques using a linear combination of stellar libraries .",
    "however , due to multiple parameters involved in the fitting process ( e.g. , metallicity , multiple stellar populations , extinction ) along with the complexity of dealing with the agn component , star formation , and the interstellar medium ( ism ) , the degree to which starlight subtraction methods can account for the contribution of starlight is still unclear .",
    "even with optimal starlight subtraction , emission line ratios can still vary with aperture size .",
    "one of the major reasons is the presence of extra - nuclear star - forming activity enhancing the integrated flux of emission lines .",
    "another factor can be the metallicity gradient observed in disk galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite ) , as lower - metallicity h ii regions in the outer parts of galaxy discs are capable of producing high - excitation emission lines .",
    "when observing the integrated spectra of galaxies both effects may impact the line ratios and subsequently galaxy classification .",
    "this paper examines how the bpt activity classification changes as a function of how much of the host galaxy s light that is included in the extraction aperture and the degree to which starlight removal techniques can mitigate the effect of host galaxy light .",
    "we use long - slit spectra for different types of galaxies in order to extract spectra of different - sized apertures and measure how the activity classification depends on the amount of host galaxy light included .",
    "section 2 presents the study sample and reviews its properties .",
    "section 3 describes the spectral extraction techniques used and the analysis thereof .",
    "section 4 summarizes our results and discusses the effectiveness of starlight subtraction , and section 5 presents our conclusions and discusses how spectra of more distant galaxies are affected by aperture effects .",
    "the galaxies used in our analysis were selected from the star formation reference survey @xcite , an on - going multi - wavelength project studying the properties of star formation in nearby galaxies .",
    "nearby galaxies with large surface are optimal candidates to test aperture effects by extracting spectra from incrementally increasing aperture widths .",
    "therefore , for this study we excluded point - like sources , while at the same time we avoided galaxies with major axis diameter similar to the spectrograph slit length .",
    "the last criterion was introduced in order to avoid sky - subtraction procedures which would require a separate sky exposure , keeping the analysis as simple and unbiased as possible . because we are examining how activity classification is affected by aperture effects",
    ", we included galaxies of different activity classifications , ( star - forming , liner , seyfert ) based on their nuclear spectra ( maragkoudakis et al , in prep ) . out of the 50 objects observed so far , 11 fulfill the above criteria .    in order to account for different morphological types",
    "the sfrs sample was supplemented by elliptical galaxies , known to host an agn .",
    "the galaxies used were 3c  033 , 3c  084 , and 3c  296 , selected based on the sample of @xcite .",
    "the basic parameters of the final sample of 14 galaxies used in our study are presented in table [ table1 ] .    with the exception of ngc  4704 at 122.8 mpc , ugc  9412 at 198.7 mpc , and 3c  033 at 252 mpc ,",
    "the objects in the sample are located within 92 mpc with a mean distance of 79.8 mpc .",
    "the majority of the galaxies are of spiral morphological types based on nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is based on de vaucouleurs system @xcite .",
    "their integrated photometry was obtained from the sdss database and corresponds to g - band petrosian magnitudes @xcite .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      early type galaxies are nearly devoid of star - forming activity , simplifying in principle the complications found in late - type galaxies with extra - nuclear star formation .",
    "the sample of elliptical galaxies follows the same trend as spiral - seyfert galaxies , that is towards lower excitation with increasing radius ( figure [ bpt4]d ) .",
    "again , the upward tendency of 3c  033 on the optical diagnostic diagrams can be attributed to the uncertainties in the emission - line measurements .",
    "3c  296 appears to have an activity classification change from seyfert to to and liner in the case of [ nii]/h@xmath2 and [ oi]/h@xmath2 diagnostics respectively . for this galaxy ,",
    "we were not able to measure emission - lines without applying starlight subtraction , and even so the [ sii]@xmath06716 , 6731 doublet was not detected , hence no classification was acquired using the [ sii]/h@xmath2 diagnostic .",
    "the most intriguing aspect of this analysis for the elliptical subsample is that even when star - forming activity had no significant impact on the continuum subtraction , the host galaxy s starlight could not be accurately removed .",
    "galaxies fall lower in the bpt diagnostics as aperture increases even when starlight subtraction is applied , revealing the masking of the agn features by the host galaxy s starlight .",
    "one might naively expect optimal subtraction of galaxy starlight to place the central and the larger aperture sub - spectra at the same location on the bpt diagrams .",
    "the previous section demonstrates that this is not the case .",
    "we attribute this to two different reasons .",
    "first , as we showed , star - forming activity occurring outside the nucleus of a galaxy will influence the emission from the interstellar medium and hence the resulting classification in the bpt diagrams . this is a problem that starlight subtraction can not account for .",
    "the second reason is the possible errors of starlight subtraction .",
    "uncovering the actual stellar populations of galaxies responsible for the continuum light diluting the emission lines is a challenging task even in the case of elliptical galaxies , which generally have simpler stellar populations than spiral galaxies .",
    "the stellar continuum is the result of the radiation from stars of different ages and metallicities . due to the known age - metallicity degeneracy ( @xcite )",
    ", different combinations of stellar populations can produce similar continuum shapes .",
    "furthermore , the observed spectral shape and characteristics ( e.g. , the fwhm of absorption lines ) are also affected by the stellar velocity dispersion and extinction , both important parameters used when fitting the actual spectrum of a galaxy .",
    "most importantly the limited number of stellar lines available after excluding the balmer lines does not allow for an accurate and unique decomposition of the stellar component . in this",
    "respect methods based on fitting elliptical galaxy templates ( e.g. , @xcite ) rather than combination of single stellar population ( e.g. , starlight ) could be more robust , but they do not ensure a reasonable fit in every case .    determining all the parameters affecting a galaxy spectrum",
    "is not a trivial process .",
    "even small deviations from the actual parameters will produce an inaccurate stellar continuum , meaning that the subtraction from the observed spectrum may not reveal the proper emission - line characteristics .",
    "this will lead to the observed displacement in the bpt diagrams between the central and all intermediate and larger aperture spectra .    for galaxies hosting agn",
    "there is an additional parameter influencing the result of the stellar component subtraction , and that is the inclusion or omission of the agn continuum in the fit .",
    "generally , a power - low component is used to fit the agn continuum .",
    "the proper selection of the power - law index though is not a standard task as it can differ between galaxies .",
    "consequently , without accounting separately for the agn continuum , it is treated in the fit as part of the stellar continuum .",
    "this means that additional stellar populations may be used to supplement for the agn continuum , producing a less accurate synthetic spectrum for subtraction .",
    "this has a major effect in the estimated balmer absorption lines intensities from the starlight .",
    "in particular , the true balmer absoprtion depth will be less than the calculated values , and the recombination line fluxes will be over - corrected .",
    "our analysis indicates that line ratios and consequently activity classification obtained from the sdss 3@xmath4 fibers can be affected by aperture effects .",
    "the proportions of nuclear and disk ( stellar ) light that enter an sdss fiber depend on galaxy distance .",
    "thus , agn features detectability are likewise a function of distance .",
    "the result could be a different activity classification than the one obtained from observations specifically from the central regions .",
    "this is crucial , because from the agn identification standpoint one must solely concentrate on the central regions of a galaxy , while on the other hand when tracing star - formation it is essential , as proven in the analysis , that the whole surface must be scanned .    on the whole , both methods , fiber or a standard long slit , ascertain that galaxies will have a different placement in the bpt diagrams and on certain occasions a different classification as more starlight is included in the aperture of spectral extraction . starlight subtraction does not change significantly this effect , but it helps in some cases to measure emission lines , especially of higher ionization , that are otherwise completely lost in the stellar continuum .",
    "as demonstrated here reality appears to be more complex , with extra - nuclear star - forming activity ( which can not be subtracted ) seriously influencing the photometry from large apertures .",
    "low - activity galaxies ( low - luminosity agn ( llagn ) , starburst , liners , and to ) seem to be more affected by star - forming activity throughout the galactic disk , often increasing their lower - ionization emission - line intensities and placing them higher in the activity classification diagrams .",
    "a larger sample of galaxies would prove beneficial in order to identify trends in the way galaxies are classified depending on the amount of host galaxy s light that is incorporated during their observations and furthermore examine the importance of their morphology by using as many different morphological types as possible .",
    "this work was supported by a  maria michail manasaki \" bequest fellowship .",
    "a. maragkoudakis acknowledges partial support by hst grant ar-12621 - 01-a .",
    "a. zezas acknowledges partial support by nasa grant nnx12an05 g , and chandra grant ar1 - 12011x .",
    "we would like to thank the referee for his / her useful comments and suggestions which have improved the clarity of this paper .",
    "we also thank observers p. berlind and m. calkins for performing the flwo observations .",
    "funding for sdss - iii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , and the u.s .",
    "department of energy office of science .",
    "the sdss - iii web site is http://www.sdss3.org/. sdss - iii is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions of the sdss - iii collaboration including the university of arizona , the brazilian participation group , brookhaven national laboratory , carnegie mellon university , university of florida , the french participation group , the german participation group , harvard university , the instituto de astrofisica de canarias , the michigan state / notre dame / jina participation group , johns hopkins university , lawrence berkeley national laboratory , max planck institute for astrophysics , max planck institute for extraterrestrial physics , new mexico state university , new york university , ohio state university , pennsylvania state university , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the spanish participation group , university of tokyo , university of utah , vanderbilt university , university of virginia , university of washington , and yale university .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "* ngc 2608 * : a barred spiral galaxy classified as star - forming based on the standard long - slit analysis of the nuclear spectrum",
    ". the galaxy changes its activity classification towards the to region for intermediate aperture sizes and falls into the liner region for the largest apertures in the long - slit approach .",
    "a large portion of the slit , oriented along the major axis , passes through an extensive interarm region",
    ". this could be responsible for the decrement in the flux of the balmer lines ( see the corresponding h@xmath2 equivalent width plot ) , producing the upward and towards the right tendency on the bpt diagrams at small to intermediate sized apertures .",
    "then , at larger apertures , the slit falls upon the spiral arm regions where we observe a gradual increase in the balmer line flux and decrease of the bpt line ratios .    *",
    "ngc 2731 * : a spiral star - forming galaxy with almost no scatter at the [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 axis but with significant variation towards the right side of the bpt diagrams mostly in the long - slit approach .",
    "as discussed previously , this is a case where the higher ionization [ oiii ]  @xmath05007 line incrementally decreases at faster rates compared to lower ionization lines as we move farther out from the nucleus of the galaxy . in the long - slit method the galaxy reaches the to and liner region at larger apertures .    *",
    "ngc 3306 * : this is a barred - spiral galaxy and one of the starbursts in the sample having an upward movement on the bpt diagrams with increasing aperture .",
    "several younger , extra - nuclear star - forming clumps on the spiral arms produce a harder ionizing continuum , which results in the upward behavior observed .",
    "though close to the pure star - forming distinguishing line , it only relocates to the to region for the largest apertures in the long - slit method .    *",
    "ngc 4412 * : this is a typical example of a spiral seyfert-2 galaxy having its agn features obscured with increasing aperture and starlight .",
    "regarding the change of its activity classification , the galaxy falls into the to and star - forming regions in both methods and passes through the liner region for intermediate apertures in the long - slit method .    *",
    "ngc 4491 * : an early - type , barred spiral galaxy producing moderate - quality simulated elliptical spectra that have an upward trend on the bpt diagrams .",
    "no emission lines were measured without performing starlight subtraction .",
    "the two - dimensional spectrum does nt show any evidence of extra - nuclear star - forming activity , and because the produced elliptical spectra were of moderate - quality it is possible that the applied starlight subtraction could have overestimated the flux on the absorption balmer lines .",
    "this would give a smaller flux on the balmer emission lines and would result in the observed upward behavior on the diagrams .",
    "* ngc 4500 * : another early - type , barred spiral galaxy maintaining a to classification in the [ nii ]  @xmath06583/h@xmath2 diagnostic and a star - forming classification in the [ sii ]  @xmath36716 , 6731/h@xmath2 , and [ oi ]  @xmath06300/h@xmath2 diagrams .",
    "the galaxy only passes into the liners region at the largest apertures of the long - slit approach .",
    "being in the to region and very close to the maximum starburst line at its smallest aperture , the galaxy s possible agn fraction appears to decrease with increasing aperture as in the case of seyferts .    *",
    "ngc 4704 * : this is a spiral seyfert-2 galaxy showing a decrement of agn characteristics with increasing aperture .",
    "the galaxy falls into the star - forming region passing through the tos at intermediate apertures . without starlight subtraction emission lines",
    "emerge approximately at half major semi - axis radius .    * ngc 4868 * : an early - type spiral galaxy without notable scatter along all bpt axes , presenting no change of activity classification with increasing aperture .",
    "the galaxy s reddish color on the sdss image and inspection of the two - dimensional spectrum suggests mild star - forming activity and agrees with the star - forming classification and placement towards the lower end of the [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 axis .    *",
    "ngc 5660 * : another starburst , late - type spiral galaxy presenting an upward movement on the bpts due to extra - nuclear star - forming activity , as explained previously .",
    "only the largest apertures cross the to region in the [ nii ]  @xmath06583/h@xmath2 diagnostic for the non - starlight - subtracted elliptical aperture and the standard long - slit methods . in the other two diagnostics the galaxy remains in the star - forming region .    *",
    "ugc 6732 * : this is a lenticular galaxy classified as liner based on the long - slit analysis of the nuclear spectrum .",
    "it shows a small upward tendency on the bpts which could be statistically insignificant due to the uncertainties of the emission - line measurements . in the [ sii ]",
    "@xmath36716 , 6731/h@xmath2 , and [ oi ]  @xmath06300/h@xmath2 diagnostics , the galaxy crosses the seyfert region at intermediate apertures .",
    "no emission lines were measured without starlight subtraction .",
    "* ugc 9412 * : this spiral seyfert-2 galaxy is the second most distant galaxy in the sample .",
    "it moves towards lower values of [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 with increasing aperture , an effect diminished when applying starlight subtraction . despite the decreasing [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 values , the galaxy preserves its seyfert classification .",
    "combined with the fact that it is relatively distant , the galaxy s agn features seem to be most dominant and least affected by the host galaxy s starlight .",
    "* 3c 033 * : this is an elliptical seyfert galaxy having a small upward trend on the bpts , but within the uncertainties of the emission - line measurements this could be statistically insignificant . having a quiescent star - formation activity as an early - type galaxy ,",
    "this small upward placement with increasing aperture is indicative of possible over - subtraction of the stellar continuum .",
    "* 3c 296 * : this elliptical galaxy is classified as seyfert based on the analysis of the central elliptical aperture , descending towards the to region in the [ nii ]  @xmath06583/h@xmath2 diagnostic , and crossing the liner region in the [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 diagnostic with increasing aperture .",
    "no emission lines were measured without starlight subtraction , and even so the @xmath5\\lambda\\lambda 6716 , 6731 $ ] doublet did not show any emission .",
    "ashby , m. l. n. ; mahajan , s. ; smith , h. a. ; willner , s. p. ; fazio , g. g. ; raychaudhury , s. ; zezas , a. ; barmby , p. ; bonfini , p. ; cao , c. ; gonzlez - alfonso , e. ; ishihara , d. ; kaneda , h. ; lyttle , v. ; madden , s. ; papovich , c. ; sturm , e. ; surace , j. ; wu , h. ; zhu , y .-",
    "2011 pasp , 123 , 1011a                                                      mandel , e. , murray , s. s. , & roll , j. b. 2001 , in asp conf .",
    "238 , astronomical data analysis software and systems x , eds . f. r. harnden , jr . , f. a. primini , & h. e. payne ( san francisco : asp ) , 225"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> activity classification of galaxies based on long - slit and fiber spectroscopy can be strongly influenced by aperture effects . here </S>",
    "<S> we investigate how activity classification for 14 nearby galaxies depends on the proportion of the host galaxy s light that is included in the aperture . </S>",
    "<S> we use both observed long - slit spectra and simulated elliptical - aperture spectra of different sizes . </S>",
    "<S> the degree of change varies with galaxy morphology and nuclear activity type . </S>",
    "<S> starlight removal techniques can mitigate but not remove the effect of host galaxy contamination in the nuclear aperture . </S>",
    "<S> galaxies with extra - nuclear star formation can show higher [ oiii ]  @xmath05007/h@xmath1 ratios with increasing aperture , in contrast to the naive expectation that integrated light will only dilute the nuclear emission lines . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate the mean dispersion for the diagnostic line ratios used in the standard bpt diagrams with respect to the central aperture of spectral extraction to obtain an estimate of the uncertainties resulting from aperture effects . </S>"
  ]
}