{
  "article_text": [
    "sculptor was the first dwarf spheroidal ( dsph ) galaxy discovered @xcite , and it may be considered an archetype of the class of dsph as it is a rather featureless system ( compared to e.g. fornax , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "nonetheless , scl has proven to be more complex than originally thought .",
    "photometric surveys starting from @xcite , ( and later by * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , have revealed that its horizontal branch morphology changes with radius .",
    "more recently , thanks to large spectroscopic surveys , it has been possible to relate the differences in the spatial distribution of the blue and red horizontal branch ( bhb / rhb ) to differences in chemical composition and kinematics of its stars @xcite , as well as to age gradients @xcite .",
    "the picture that has emerged from this body of work is that sculptor has two populations or components .",
    "the first population is centrally concentrated , metal rich , younger , is represented in rhb stars and has colder kinematics , with a decreasing line - of - sight velocity dispersion with distance from the centre .",
    "the second population is less concentrated , metal poor , older , is prominent in bhb stars , has hotter kinematics and a more constant velocity dispersion profile .",
    "it was not clear until now whether this could simply be due to a population gradient .",
    "dsph have been the target of many kinematic surveys in the past decade because of their very high dynamical mass - to - light ratios .",
    "the aim of these studies has been to provide constraints on the nature and distribution of dark matter , however no firm conclusions have yet been drawn .",
    "this is because of limitations in the data ( only access to line - of - sight velocities ) and also in the models .",
    "for example , the most - widely used modeling technique is based on the jeans equations and requires making assumptions about the orbital structure of the system ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ) , although recent work by @xcite using higher moments and the virial equations , seems to be able to circumvent this degeneracy .",
    "a more powerful approach is to use orbit - based dynamical modeling , also known as schwarzschild s method . @xcite",
    "have shown that the data on scl does not constrain the inner slope of its dark matter density profile very strongly , and that neither cored nor cuspy ( of the nfw - type , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) profiles are favoured .",
    "on the other hand , it has been argued that the multiple components present in sculptor should be used to model this system dynamically and that this ought to lead to much tighter constraints .",
    "this is because these components are hosted by the same underlying potential and their presence effectively would reduce the available parameter space of plausible dynamical models @xcite .",
    "several studies have attempted this using e.g. the virial equations @xcite or constraints based on jeans modeling @xcite , and concluded that nfw - like profiles are strongly disfavoured .",
    "all these works ( with the exception of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have assumed that the two populations are split in the same way in photometry and kinematics / chemistry , although this is a priori not guaranteed , as the kinematics ( and split in metallicity ) are obtained from the rgb while the photometry is fit for the bhb and rhb stars independently .",
    "perhaps more importantly , all these models based on a single estimate of the mass at a given radius ( e.g. either through jeans or through the virial equations ) have assumed the components to follow the same functional form of the light distribution ( with different characteristic parameters ) . as we shall show below ,",
    "this is not necessarily a valid asssumption .    in this _",
    "letter _ we analyse the phase - space structure of the best fitting schwarzschild dynamical models of sculptor from @xcite and @xcite .",
    "our spherical orbit based dynamical models are non - parametric in the distribution function ( e.g. no assumptions are made on the anisotropy ) and provide good fits to the global kinematics and light distribution of scl .",
    "the dark matter distribution follows specific parametric profiles ( c.f . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which all produce very similar mass distributions in a finite region around the half - light radius of scl . as we shall show below",
    ", the orbit weights ( which correspond to the distribution function of the galaxy ) show a bimodal distribution for all the best fit models of sculptor , even though this is not a priori assumed .",
    "our orbit based dynamical models are described extensively in @xcite .",
    "this method essentially consists in finding a linear combination of orbits ( integrated in a given gravitational potential ) that allows fitting the kinematic data and light distribution of the system . by varying the characteristic parameters of the gravitational potential ( e.g. mass and scale radius )",
    ", best fits are found , while the weights of the orbits effectively provide the distribution function non - parametrically .",
    "[ fig : vdispfit ] shows how well the best fit models for various dark matter profiles explored in @xcite and from the discrete modeling approach by breddels ( 2013 , phd thesis ) reproduce the velocity dispersion and kurtosis profiles .",
    "as can be seen from this figure the resulting fits are nearly indistinguishable from one another .",
    "( core13 ) and @xmath0 ( core24 ) .",
    "[ fig : vdispfit ] ]    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]",
    "we have shown that the distribution function of sculptor for several best fitting mass models is bimodal in energy and angular momemtum space .",
    "the two components may be split in a low and high angular momentum parts using the watershed method .",
    "the properties of the low and high angular momentum components are similar to the metal rich and metal - poor components respectively , known to be present in this galaxy , in terms of their velocity dispersion profile and their light distribution @xcite .",
    "this result is quite remarkable since we have not assumed at any point the existence of multiple components in the sculptor dwarf .",
    "it therefore suggests that the metal - rich and metal - poor stars indeed are dynamically distinct , and that sculptor is not simply a system with a radial gradient in stellar populations .",
    "this finding highlights the full power of the schwarzschild s dynamical approach , and would not have been possible if we had taken a parametric approach to model the distribution function .",
    "the fact that our models naturally recover the bimodality present in sculptor , for all dark matter profiles explored , and even for the nfw form , would seem to be at odds with the results of @xcite and @xcite . in these works ,",
    "sculptor was modeled as a two - component system with light distributions that followed similar profiles .",
    "the use of the virial equations or the robust estimator of the mass at the half - light radii of each component was used to argue that nfw profiles could be ruled out with high significance .",
    "our modeling however , shows this is not the case and why .",
    "the assumption of similar light profiles appears to be crucial to reach those conclusions , and would seem to introduce a systematic bias that none of these works have taken into account . in the resulting non - parametric dynamical models we have obtained , the light distribution for the two components is quite different and can not be parametrized well by plummer profiles as fig .",
    "[ fig : light ] shows . walker ( 2014 , private communication ) repeated the analysis of @xcite , but now allowing the metal rich profile to follow an exponential form .",
    "while still excluding a cusp with @xmath1 instead of @xmath2 , it demonstrates the bias caused by the assumed parametric form of the light profiles .",
    "it is natural to wonder whether other dwarfs also exhibit multiple dynamical components .",
    "fornax would be a natural candidate but its complex light distribution ( e.g. the presence of shells , non - axisymmetries in the centre , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the hints of misaligned kinematics ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) require the use of a more general ( non - spherical ) schwarzschild modeling approach . on the other hand",
    ", it would be desirable to have larger datasets for e.g. carina and sextans to be confident in the robustness of the analyses .",
    "more generally , an interesting challenge will be to understand how such complex systems can form on the smallest galaxy scale , i.e. on the scale of the dwarf spheroidals .",
    "ah and mb are grateful to nova for financial support .",
    "ah acknowledges financial support the european research council under erc - starting grant galactica-240271 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in previous work we have presented schwarzschild models of the sculptor dsph , demonstrating that this system could be embedded in dark matter halos that are either cusped or cored . here </S>",
    "<S> we show that the non - parametric distribution function recovered through schwarschild s method is bimodal in energy and angular momentum space for all best fitting mass models explored . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that this bimodality is directly related to the two components known to be present in sculptor through stellar populations analysis , although our method is purely dynamical in nature and does not use this prior information . </S>",
    "<S> it therefore constitutes independent confirmation of the existence of two physically distinct dynamical components in sculptor and suggests a rather complex assembly history for this dwarf galaxy . </S>"
  ]
}