{
  "article_text": [
    "a half a century ago , neutrinos were first discovered at a nuclear reactor plant by fred reines , clyde cowan and their colleagues@xcite .",
    "indeed , nuclear reactors are the most intense man - controlled sources of neutrinos .",
    "a total flux of 2 @xmath0 antineutrinos / s is emitted by a 1-gw@xmath1 power plant@xcite . in recent years , neutrino physics is studied intensively as a means to monitor reactor operations .",
    "international atomic energy agency(iaea ) uses an extensive set of technical measures by which it independently verifies the correctness and completeness of declarations made by countries about their stores of nuclear material and activities .",
    "iaea recommends@xcite near - field antineutrino monitoring capabilities to provide operational status , thermal power , and fissile content of reactors to ensure the implementation of reactor safeguards .",
    "the merits of using antineutrinos physics are as follows :    * non - intrusiveness + because of their high penetration , antineutrinos can be detected outside reactor buildings . *",
    "no other sources + because comparable fluxes of antineutrinos are difficult to create without using reactors or accelerators , one can therefore obtain raw data of a reactor . * information of the isotopic content + by measurement of the antineutrino energy spectrum , one can determine not only the operational status and thermal power of a reactor , but also fissile content@xcite .",
    "iaea proposed the development of a compact detector within a standard 12-meter iso container ( approximately 25,000 kg net load ) and the aboveground deployment as medium term ( 58 year timeframe ) goals@xcite .",
    "the aboveground deployment is very important because of its non - intrusiveness .",
    "however , it is a challenge because of background noise induced by cosmic rays and as yet no group has succeeded in producing a working prototype , despite several endeavors among various groups @xcite around the world .    taking the above points into account",
    ", we proposed a segmented antineutrino detector , panda , an acronym for plastic anti - neutrino detector array@xcite .",
    "because of its segmented structure and its use of event topology information , panda has a strong background rejection capability .    in the first stage of the panda project",
    ", we built and operated a small prototype detector called lesser panda , at the unit 3 reactor of the hamaoka nuclear power plant of the chubu electric power co. , inc .",
    "it consisted of 16 modules of plastic scintillators and a total target mass of 160 kg .",
    "we had planned to measure the change in antineutrino flux during the startup of the unit 3 reactor , but the reactor was not brought online because of the 2011 tohoku earthquake off the pacific coast of japan .",
    "we measured background data for two months there .",
    "the results were reported in @xcite .    in the next step of our project",
    ", we constructed a 360-kg prototype neutrino detector called panda36 as a tool to inspect and assess safeguards .",
    "over a two - month period we demonstrated its operation above ground at 36 meters away from the 3.4 gw@xmath1 reactor core of ohi power station of the kansai electric power co. , inc .",
    "the purpose of the experiment was two - fold : the detection of the change in antineutrino flux between online and off - line reactor periods and the analysis of background flux from above - ground measurements for feasibility assessment of project goals . in this paper , we report results of the experiment using the prototype detector panda36 .",
    "we detect antineutrinos via the inverse beta decay interaction on a proton in the plastic scintillator with the energy threshold of 1.8  mev .",
    "@xmath2    the positron and the neutron which are produced by the inverse beta decay are detected independently .",
    "the positron deposits energy via ionization , and emits two gamma rays by annihilation : @xmath3 it is referred to as the prompt event in this paper hereafter .",
    "the neutron is thermalized in the plastic and captured some time later by gadolinium embedded in between plastic scintillators , and a gamma ray cascade is produced with total energy of about 8 mev : @xmath4 @xmath5 it is referred to as the delayed event .",
    "the prompt and the delayed events are detected in delayed coincidence .",
    "the principle of detection is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : method_panda_principle ] .",
    "our detector has four original features as follows .",
    "* mobility + the target mass of panda36 detector is 360 kg .",
    "it is small as a neutrino detector .",
    "in addition , our detector is loaded into a van , and can operate in the van . *",
    "solid state + there are two merits of the solid state scintillator . the first is the easiness of transportation compared to liquid scintillator .",
    "our detector is fully prepared in the van for the measurement and can be carried to the reactor as it is .",
    "the second is the non - flammability .",
    "oil - based liquid scintillator is flammable and flammable oil is prohibited in many cases to be brought to commercial reactor sites .",
    "* aboveground measurement + sea - level operation of reactor neutrino detectors is one of the greatest issues for the safeguards application .",
    "the previous experiments to detect reactor neutrinos are conducted in underground sites@xcite . in contrast , our detector is deployed just outside a reactor building . if we detect the reactor neutrino , panda project is to be the first successful aboveground experiment . + but it is a difficult challenge . above ground , there are higher background resulted from cosmic rays .",
    "especially , neutrons produced by cosmic muons are difficult to be discriminated from delayed events of inverse beta decays . * segmented detector + in order to operate the reactor monitor aboveground , a powerful background rejection technique is needed .",
    "our detector is segmented and the energy deposit in each module is recorded .",
    "so , it becomes possible to use the event topology information to tag antineutrino events and to discriminate them from background .",
    "+ generally , liquid scintillators are used for the reactor neutrino experiment because they are easy to be doped with gadolinium .",
    "but the technique to create clear and colorless gd doped plastic scintillator is less established .",
    "our solution to the issue is to use the segmented pillar plastic scintillators which are wrapped in gadolinium coated sheets .",
    "the sketch of panda36 detector is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : detector_panda36 ] .",
    "the detector consists of 36 identical modules which are the same ones as were used in the lesser panda detector@xcite .",
    "the modules are referred to as the panda modules .",
    "schematic view of a panda module is shown fig .",
    "[ fig : detector_pandamodule ] .",
    "each panda module has 10 kg of plastic scintillator ( ej-200 , eljen technology or rp-408 , rexon technology ) in it .",
    "two @xmath6 acrylic cubic light guides are glued to both ends of the plastic scintillator with optical cement ( ej-500 , eljen technology ) .",
    "two of 2-inch diameter pmts(h6410 , hamamatsu ) are glued to the light guides .",
    "the plastic scintillator and the light guides are wrapped in aluminized mylar and gadolinium - oxide coated polyester sheet .",
    "the polyester sheet is obtained from ask sanshin engineering corp . , ltd .",
    "the sheet is made of 50 @xmath7 m thick polyester film sandwiched in two layers of 25-@xmath7 m thick gd@xmath8o@xmath9 coating .",
    "the sheet contains 4.9 mg/@xmath10 of gadolinium .",
    "[ tab : detector_daqmodel ]    .table of model numbers of daq components [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the selection criteria of selections 1 and 2 are optimized as follows .",
    "first of all , a software trigger was applied to the data for the both selections before the analysis .",
    "because the hardware thresholds are not necessarily the same for all the pmt s , it is required to apply the software trigger with a common threshold to estimate the appropriate trigger efficiency .    in the next step , we selected the prompt events by requiring the total energy @xmath11 to be in the range between 3 and 6  mev to reduce the environmental gamma - ray background .",
    "we expect that a prompt event consists of one positron and two annihilation gamma rays .",
    "in many cases , @xmath12 corresponds to the ionization loss of the positron and @xmath13 corresponds to the compton scattering of one of the annihilation gamma rays . here ,",
    "@xmath12 and @xmath13 are the highest and the second highest energy deposits among all the modules .",
    "@xmath14 is also similarly defined as the third highest deposit energy . to include the energy of 511 kev of the annihilation gamma ray",
    ", @xmath13 was required to be less than 520 kev for selection 1 , and to be greater than 700 kev for selection 2 to exclude positrons .",
    "the double - neutron correlated background events were also efficiently eliminated by the @xmath13 cut of selection 1 .",
    "it is because the prompt event of the double - neutron correlated background is composed of high energy gamma ray cascade .",
    "the delayed event is characterized by two or more gamma rays as a gamma ray cascade with a total energy of 7.9  mev emitted by @xmath15gd and 8.5  mev emitted by @xmath16gd following the thermal neutron captures common to both the selections .",
    "@xmath11 is , therefore , required to be in the range between 3 and 8  mev for the selection of delayed events .",
    "it is rare for the energy deposit to be localized in one module because two or more gamma rays are emitted at a time in the delayed event .",
    "so , we expect that @xmath17 is not much larger than @xmath18 nor @xmath19 .",
    "[ fig : selection_delayed_e1e3_scatter ] shows scatter plots of @xmath19 vs @xmath17 of the simulation(above ) and the observed data(below ) .    ) . ,",
    "title=\"fig:\",width=377 ] ) .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=377 ]    as expected , the events of the observed data are concentrated on @xmath20 because they are dominated by gamma ray background events , and the events of the simulation are scattered .",
    "we accordingly required @xmath21 in both selection 1 and selection 2 .",
    "we paired a prompt - like event with the following delayed - like event when the delay time was within a predefined time window .    due to the conversion time of the qdc(about 7.5 @xmath7s )",
    ", the minimum threshold for the time window was set at 8 @xmath7s .",
    "the distributions of the prompt - delayed intervals by selection 1(top ) and selection 2(bottom ) are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : analysis_time ] .",
    "selection and @xmath13 selection .",
    "the delayed events satisfied the software trigger criterion , @xmath11 selection and @xmath19 selection .",
    "( top ) the solid and dashed lines show the simulated(antineutrino ) and observed distributions which are selected by selection 1 .",
    "( bottom ) the solid and dashed lines show the simulated(fast neutron ) and observed distributions which are selected by selection 2 .",
    "we set the time windows as @xmath22(selection 1 ) and @xmath23(selection 2 ) .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ]   selection and @xmath13 selection .",
    "the delayed events satisfied the software trigger criterion , @xmath11 selection and @xmath19 selection .",
    "( top ) the solid and dashed lines show the simulated(antineutrino ) and observed distributions which are selected by selection 1 .",
    "( bottom ) the solid and dashed lines show the simulated(fast neutron ) and observed distributions which are selected by selection 2 .",
    "we set the time windows as @xmath22(selection 1 ) and @xmath23(selection 2 ) . ,",
    "title=\"fig : \" ]    the dashed lines show the observed data and the solid lines show the simulation of neutrino events(top ) and fast neutron correlated events(bottom ) .",
    "the simulation curves for both the selections are exponentially decreasing with time because the event pair is correlated . on the other hand",
    ", the data curves are decreasing more gradually .",
    "it is most probably due to accidental coincidence events pairs , which distribute constantly over the time .",
    "therefore , the shorter the time window is , the higher the fraction of the correlated events is selected . but",
    "setting shorter time window leads to reduction in detection efficiency .",
    "we set the time windows as @xmath24 so as to get high efficiency for the low - rate antineutrino events , and @xmath25 to get high - purity fast neutron events sample of sufficient rate even with low efficiency .",
    "next we focus on the position of the highest energy deposit in the prompt event .",
    "because @xmath12 of the prompt event is supposed to correspond to the ionization loss of the positron , the position of the highest energy deposit is uniformly distributed in 36 modules . on the other hand ,",
    "the prompt @xmath12 of the correlated background by the fast neutron is supposed to correspond to the proton recoil . because neutron interaction with a hydrogen nucleus at the neutron energy of 10 mev has a cross section of about 1 barn , neutrons have the mean free path of about 15 cm in the plastic scintillator .",
    "therefore , the highest energy deposit tends to occur in outer 20 modules .",
    "however , it should be noted that because of the correlation with the software trigger criterion , both the distributions already concentrate on inside 16 modules .",
    "we cut the events whose prompt @xmath12 module are located in outer 20 modules as a fiducial cut .",
    "we introduce a muon veto cut by software .",
    "cosmic ray muons can produce fast neutrons which bring on correlated background .",
    "we assume the event with @xmath11 of more than 8 mev is a muon candidate and rejected any prompt - delayed event pairs in which a muon candidate event occurred within 250 @xmath7s before the delayed event .    the detection efficiency of selection 1(tab .  [ tab : selection_criteria ] )",
    "was calculated using the simulation toolkit geant4 .",
    "the systematic uncertainty of the efficiency was estimated as follows .",
    "we assumed that the systematic uncertainty consists of two different mechanisms , uncertainties in the simulation models and uncertainties in the pmt gain factors . to estimate the uncertainties in the simulation models ,",
    "dedicated experiments with radioactive sources were carried out and the detection rates were compared between the observation and the simulation . to estimate the uncertainty in the prompt software trigger efficiency and the prompt @xmath13 selection , we carried out an experiment with @xmath26na positron- and gamma ray source . and to estimate the uncertainty in the selection criteria for delayed events , we carried out an experiment with @xmath27cf neutron source . because it is difficult to verify the prompt @xmath11 selection by experiments using radioactive sources , we calculated its uncertainty using the simulation result and the estimated energy resolution . to estimate the uncertainty of the detection efficiency attributed to the pmt gain variation",
    ", we also used the simulation result , but not experimental data .",
    "the summary of the detection efficiency and the systematic errors is shown in tab .  [",
    "tab : efficiency_result ] .",
    "the detection efficiencies of the prompt event selection , the delayed event selection and the time window are affected by the position of the inverse beta decay .",
    "there are , therefore , correlations among them .",
    "the relative error of 29.6  % and the detection efficiency of @xmath28  % were estimated .",
    "we need to estimate the efficiency ratios @xmath29 and @xmath30 to calculate @xmath31 in eq.([eq : definition ] ) and to evaluate the theoretical expectation by eq.([eq : expectation ] )",
    ".    the ratios of the detection efficiencies were calculated using the simulation .",
    "the differences between selection 1 and selection 2 are the prompt @xmath13 selection and the coincidence time window .",
    "contributions of the other common selection criteria cancel out each other .",
    "both uncertainties in the simulation models and the pmt gain factors contribute to the uncertainty in the prompt @xmath13 selection . on the other hand ,",
    "only the uncertainties in the simulation models contribute to the uncertainty of the coincidence time window cut .",
    "to estimate the uncertainties in the simulation models , we compared the energy spectra and the coincidence time distributions between the simulation and the observed data .",
    "the expected antineutrino event rate was thus estimated by the factor of the first term of eq.([eq : expectation ] ) . according to a report released by the kansai electric power co. , inc .",
    ", the reactor generated the thermal power of @xmath32 gw .",
    "the systematic error of the thermal power is not reported , so the very conservative value was used for this estimation .",
    "we assumed in this estimation that the fission fuel fraction is the same as the songs experiment@xcite .",
    "it is simply assumed that all the fuel is concentrated at the center of the reactor core as it is a sufficient approximation@xcite for the present experiment .",
    "the expected antineutrino detection rate by panda36(target mass : @xmath33 kg ) is @xmath34  events / day .",
    "we calculated the daily rates @xmath31 by eq.([eq : definition ] ) averaged for seven days and plotted them in fig .",
    "[ fig : final_number ] .",
    ", width=377 ]    the reactor went shutdown on 16th december .",
    "the crosses and the stars show the data during the reactor on and off period , respectively .",
    "the errors shown are statistical only because the systematic error of @xmath35 is attributed to the overall normalization of @xmath36 .",
    "the horizontal bands represent averages and error interval of @xmath36 for the reactor on period and off period .",
    "the reactor on / off difference of @xmath31 was evaluated to be @xmath37  events / day .",
    "the result is consistent with the predicted event rate of @xmath38  events / day .",
    "we assumed the correlated background consists of only fast neutron events by now .",
    "we discuss other candidates of long - lived cosmic ray activation products in the following .",
    "beta decays of @xmath39li and @xmath40he produced by cosmic muons could also cause correlated background .",
    "decay rates of @xmath39li and @xmath40he are estimated to be less than @xmath41 and @xmath42 , respectively@xcite . assuming the vertical muon intensity of @xmath43 and angular dependence of @xmath44 , production rates of the isotopes in panda36(@xmath45  g ) were estimated to be @xmath46 @xmath47 because the detection efficiency of less than 0.5  % was calculated of each beta decay by the simulation and no on / off difference in the muon flux is expected , contribution to the final result is negligible .",
    "natural radioisotopes @xmath48rn , @xmath49rn and their daughters emit @xmath50 radiation with the energy range of 49  mev(12  mev electron equivalent ) . if these isotopes permeate into the plastic scintillator , they might cause ( @xmath50 , n ) reactions .",
    "such events could also be observed as the correlated background by the delayed coincidence between the @xmath50 ionization and the following neutron capture .",
    "however , the abundance of the radon near the detector in the open air is expected to be much less than under the ground , and the plastic scintillator is less permeable by radon than liquid scintillator .",
    "in addition to that , no on / off difference is expected in the event rate from radon and their daughters because the radon is not generated by the fission in the reactor .",
    "it should be noted that the prompt event of the ( @xmath50 , n ) reaction is rejected by the @xmath11 cut of selection 1 and selection 2 .",
    "we plan to build panda100 , an antineutrino detector with @xmath51 modules , as our ultimate goal by upgrading panda36 , possibly with an intermediate prototype panda64 with @xmath52 modules .",
    "they are expected to have higher detection efficiency than panda36 in addition to a larger target mass because the escape of the cascade gamma rays following neutron capture is suppressed with the larger volume .",
    "antineutrino detection efficiency of panda100 is estimated to be 9.24  % using simulation by applying a selection similar to selection 1 .",
    "if panda100 were deployed at the same position as panda36 at ohi power station , the selected antineutrino event rate would be @xmath53 background rates of panda100 can also be estimated assuming the same background fast neutron flux as panda36 .",
    "panda100 is thus expected to be able to detect the change of the reactor status by more than 5@xmath54 in a week aboveground and to achieve the iaea s medium term goals .    in order to make more precise measurement of the antineutrino flux",
    ", we have to reject more background events .",
    "as discussed in the former sections , the main source of the background is the `` proton recoil ",
    "neutron capture '' events by fast neutrons .",
    "one of the solutions to the background rejection is to shield the detector from fast neutrons with water tanks or polyethylene blocks .",
    "our detector has the ability to discriminate between the prompt events and the delayed events .",
    "so if fast neutrons could be thermalized before reaching the detector , we would be able to reject the background events of fast neutrons .",
    "we developed the prototype of the reactor antineutrino detector as a new safeguards tool and demonstrated the almost unmanned field operation at the reactor site for two months .",
    "we observed the difference of the reactor antineutrino flux with the reactor on and off even with small 360-kg prototype detector above the ground in the vicinity of a commercial reactor of a power plant for the first time .",
    "our detection efficiency of the inverse beta decay is @xmath55  % .",
    "we installed the detector at @xmath56  meters away from the @xmath32  gw@xmath1 reactor core .",
    "the difference of the antineutrino event rate between the reactor on period and the reactor off period is @xmath37 events / day .",
    "the predicted difference is @xmath38 events / day .    assuming the fast neutron flux measured by the panda36 experiment , the ultimate 100-module detector , panda100 , is expected to be able to detect the change of the reactor status by more than 5@xmath54 in a week aboveground and to achieve the iaea medium term goals .",
    "the authors thank the kansai electric power co. , inc . for its cooperation for our experiment on site of ohi power station .",
    "they are also grateful to professor yoichi fujiie for his support for this research project .",
    "the authors wish to acknowledge useful discussions with professor yoichiro shimazu .",
    "this research was partially supported by the japanese ministry of education , science , sports and culture , grant - in - aid for coe research , grant - in - aid for scientific research ( b ) , and grant - in - aid for jsps fellows and also by the mitsubishi foundation .      c. l. cowan , jr .",
    ", f. reines , f. b. harrison , h. w. kruse and a. d. mcguire , science 124 ( 1956)103 .",
    "p. vogel , j. engel , phys .",
    "d 39 ( 1989 ) 3378 .",
    "t. a. mueller , d. lhuillier , m. fallot , a. letourneau , s. cormon , m. fechner , l. giot , t. lasserre , j. martino , g. mention , a. porta , f. yermia , phys . rev .",
    "c 83 ( 2011 ) 054615 .",
    "p. huber , phys .",
    "c 84 ( 2011 ) 024617 .",
    "iaea headquarters .",
    "final report : focused workshop on antineutrino detection for safeguards applications , oct 2008 .",
    "a. bernstein , y. wang , g. gratta , t. west , j. appl .",
    "91 ( 2002 ) 4672 , n. s. bowden .",
    "ser . , 136 ( 2008 ) 022008 , a. bernstein , n. s. bowden , a. misner , t. palmer , j. appl .",
    "103 ( 2008 ) 074905 , n. s. bowden , a. bernstein , s. dazeley , r. svoboda , a. misner , t. palmer , j. appl .",
    "( 2009 ) 064902 .",
    "y. v. klimov , v. i. kopeikin , l. a. mikaelyan , k. v. ozerov , v. v. sinev , atomic energy 76 ( 1994 ) 123 . h. furuta et al .",
    "instrum . meth .",
    "a662 ( 2012 ) 90 . v. belov et al . , j. instrumentation 8 ( 2013 ) p05018 , i. alekseev et al . , arxiv:1305.3350[physics.ins - det ] , m. danilov ( danss collaboration ) , arxiv:1311.2777[physics.ins - det ] .",
    "a. porta et al .",
    "( nucifer coll . ) , journal of physics : conf .",
    "( 2010 ) 012092 , a.s . cucoanes ( nucifer collaboration ) , j. phys . conf .",
    "( 2012 ) 042063 .",
    "yasuhiro kuroda , shugo oguri , yo kato , ryoko nakata , yoshizumi inoue , chikara ito , makoto minowa , nucl .",
    "instrum . meth .",
    "a690 ( 2012 ) 41 .",
    "s. agostinelli , et al .",
    "instrum . meth .",
    "a506 ( 2003 ) 250 .",
    "s. abe et al .",
    "( kamland collaboration ) , phys .",
    "c81 ( 2010 ) 025807 .",
    "yoichiro shimazu , private communication ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we developed a segmented reactor - antineutrino detector made of plastic scintillators for application as a tool in nuclear safeguards inspection and performed mostly unmanned field operations at a commercial power plant reactor . at a position outside the reactor building </S>",
    "<S> , we measured the difference in reactor antineutrino flux above the ground when the reactor was active and inactive .    reactor , safeguards , neutrino , antineutrino </S>"
  ]
}