{
  "article_text": [
    "quantum or coherent transport are common phenomena in many natural or artificial systems @xcite . in a quantum system ,",
    "transfer of matter or energy is strongly influenced by structural disorder or environmental noise .",
    "recently , it was discovered , in the context of energy transfer in photosynthetic complexes , that environmental interactions can have a constructive role in excitonic transport , called enaqt effect @xcite .",
    "basically , a decoherence process can facilitate excitons displacement between molecules by breaking wavefunction localization @xcite , energy level broadening @xcite , or quantum jumps @xcite .",
    "based on enaqt theory , optimal quantum transport is achieved by an optimal interplay of the system coherence and decoherence dynamics , influenced by the environment structure @xcite . the convergence of system - environment energy scales is an underlying principle for such an optimal transport process @xcite .    in this paper , we study the role of enaqt in the robustness of quantum transport , a feature complement to optimality . to this end , as a model system , we consider excitonic energy transfer in fmo complex and investigate the efficiency of transport in the presence of large variations in internal and external conditions .",
    "the fmo complex is a trimer consisting of three identical monomers each formed from seven bacteriochlorophylls ( bchl ) embedded in a scaffold protein .",
    "an fmo unit acts as an energy transfer channel in green sulphur bacteria guiding excitons from the light - harvesting antenna complex to the reaction center .",
    "recent electronic spectroscopy experiments provide evidence that long - lived quantum dynamical coherence can exist in fmo complex @xcite .",
    "such experimental observation suggests that modeling excitonic dynamics requires describing fmo as an open quantum system to include both the internal coherence and the decoherence induced by the protein scaffold environment .    for our modeling , we employed the time - convolutional master equation ( tc2 ) that we derived and analyzed in ref.@xcite . in our study",
    ", we consider the environmental parameters including reorganization energy , bath cutoff frequency , temperature , and trapping .",
    "the role of antenna complex is studied by varying the initial excitonic states and its impact on energy transfer efficiency ( ete ) . for the internal parameters , we study the robustness of ete in presence of disorder in the fmo internal structure parameterized by site energies , inter - chlorophyl distances , and dipole moment orientations .",
    "we observe that enaqt enhances robustness of energy transfer while is a universal phenomenon in the sense that the environment can assist transport even at non - optimal regime of parameters .",
    "we should mention that the results presented in this manuscript are part of an extensive study that we had reported its other aspects in refs.@xcite .",
    "a new derivation of the tc2 master equation along with assessment of its reliability for calculating energy transfer efficiency beyond perturbative and markovian limits was presented in @xcite .",
    "@xcite presents an underlying principle , the convergence of system and environment energy - scales to describe optimal quantum transport .",
    "we discussed the role of geometrical character of an excitonic system in energy transfer in ref .",
    "the current study presents numerical evaluation of robustness for enaqt phenomenon while our previous papers @xcite were addressing the role of enaqt is enhancement of energy transfer .",
    "the fmo electronic states at low energy limit is modeled as a @xmath0-level quantum system with hamiltonian    @xmath1    where @xmath2 denotes an excitation state in a chromophore spatially located at site @xmath3 .",
    "the diagonal site energies are denoted by @xmath4s .",
    "the strengths of dipole - dipole interactions between chromophores in different sites are represented by @xmath5 .",
    "we model the protein scaffold as a bath of harmonic oscillators with gaussian fluctuations @xcite .",
    "each bchl is coupled to a separate bath with interaction hamiltonian @xmath6 where @xmath7 , and @xmath8 is the @xmath3th bath operator .",
    "we assume a drude - lorentzian correlation function , given at temperature @xmath9 as : @xmath10 where the spectral function has the form @xmath11 . for fmo ,",
    "we considered the reorganization energy value of @xmath12 @xmath13 and bath cutoff frequency @xmath14 @xmath13 , all the same for different bchls .    in order to model the fmo electronic degrees of freedom as an open quantum system",
    ", we employ the time - nonlocal master equation tc2 .",
    "@xmath15\\notag\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where the @xmath16 $ ] . here",
    ", we include the effect of exciton loss and reaction center ( rc ) trapping by the superoperator @xmath17 . in the first term ,",
    "the loss rate is @xmath18 while the second term @xmath19 represents the exciton capturing process by the reaction center .",
    "we consider bchl3 as the trapping site with the trapping rate of @xmath20 .",
    "we quantify ete as the total portion of a traveling exciton successfully captured by the reaction center : @xmath21 the above performance function had been used in our previous studies @xcite . in ref.@xcite",
    ", we examined that tc2 equation provides reliable estimation of ete for the range of parameters considered in this study .",
    "we examine the degree of optimality and robustness of the energy transfer by employing the the euclidean norm of the gradient and hessian matrix of the ete function .",
    "the euclidean norm of the ete gradient at any parameters values @xmath22 and @xmath23 , @xmath24 , quantifies the degree of optimality .",
    "the gradient measure reveals the degree of local optimality in a surface manifold .",
    "careful inspections of the room temperature plots for the ete function versus various pairs of relevant parameters show a convex or concave manifold , thus gradient as a measure of local optimality suffices to measure global optimality . to examine the robustness ,",
    "we compute the hessian matrix norm @xmath25||_2 $ ] ( @xmath26 ) as the total measure of local curvature of the manifold",
    ". a smaller value of this norm corresponds to a flatter surface , thus a more robust process .",
    "we use a five - point stencil method to compute derivatives numerically .    a quantitative study of the degree of optimality and robustness of the energy transfer as functions of system - bath coupling strength and bath memory is illustrated in fig [ figopt - sus - lamgam ] .",
    "the optimality is defined as euclidean norm of the ete function gradient @xmath27 to locate the local maxima in the ete landscape in fig .",
    "[ figopt - sus - lamgam ] .",
    "the robustness is defined by @xmath28 to measure local curvature of the manifold .",
    "note that the ete gradient and hessian matrix norms are indicated in a logarithmic scale , thus the global optimal point with zero derivative can not be explicitly highlighted in this representation .",
    "the experimentally estimated values for fmo are illustrated as black dots in each graph clearly located in an optimal and robust region .",
    "one remarkable feature is the fact that environmental parameters of fmo have almost the minimal reorganization energy and bath cutoff frequency among all the regions with simultaneous optimal and robust properties .",
    "one hypothetical explanation could be the overall tendency in nature to minimize the amount of required work , that is , facilitating an optimal and robust environmental platform for the fmo energy transport by preserving a rather small size scaffold protein that is weakly coupled .",
    "however , one may ask why nature has not evolved toward an even more compact complex .",
    "on reason could be that pigments at closer distances can exchange electrons in addition to excitons that would reduce the excited state lifetime , the so - called concentration quenching .",
    "however , using the modeling considered in this paper we are not able to examine such hypothesis .     and @xmath29 by the gradient matrix norm of the ete function .",
    "the dark blue points represent near optimal values .",
    "right : the degree of ete robustness is quantified by the euclidian norm of hessian of the ete .",
    "the dark blue points represent near robust points .",
    "the estimated fmo environmental values of @xmath30 and @xmath14 @xmath13 , marked by black dots , are located on the corner of both robust and optimal region.,width=340,height=226 ]    the gradient and hessian norms as functions of reorganization energy and temperature are illustrated in fig .",
    "[ figopt - sus - lamt ] . at the relevant fmo operating temperatures ,",
    "optimum and robust energy transport can occur simultaneously only within a small regions of @xmath31 between @xmath32 to @xmath33 @xmath13 , which coincide with the estimated values of reorganization energy for the fmo .",
    "we note that there are certain regions of higher robustness at higher reorganization energy that are in principle available , but these regions imply a significantly lower operating temperature for the fmo operation and they have suboptimal ete in comparison with actual fmo environmental parameters at the room temperature .",
    "the robustness with respect to environmental parameters had been previously reported refs . @xcite but with no direct quantification of robustness and mere graphical observation .     and",
    "@xmath9 by the norm of the ete gradient .",
    "the dark blue points represent near optimal values .",
    "right : the degree of ete robustness is quantified by the euclidian norm of the ete hessian .",
    "the dark blue points represent near robust points .",
    "we note that within the range of possible fmo operating temperatures ( e.,g between @xmath34 to @xmath35 ) simultaneous optimal and robust energy transport can only be achieved for @xmath31 values around @xmath32 to @xmath33 @xmath13 , that is equivalent to the estimated reorganization energy for the fmo complex that is marked by a black dot at room temperature @xmath36.,width=340,height=226 ]",
    "the exciton migration pathways and time - scales have been studied in detail for a variety of light - harvesting complexes using various perturbative techniques including frster models for studying lhi and ii of purple bacteria @xcite and lindblad models for simulating the dynamics of the fmo protein of green sulphur bacteria @xcite . nevertheless , the role of initial conditions in the overall energy transfer efficiency of photosynthetic complexes is to a large extent unknown .",
    "it was recently shown that the initial quantum coherence could influence the energy transfer efficiency in lhi of purple bacteria assuming no interaction with the phonon bath @xcite .",
    "the dependency on initial localized excitation at bchls 1 and 6 were also examined for the fmo complex using lindblad , haken - strobl , and heom models @xcite .",
    "however , the sensitivity of ete with respect to generic initial pure and mixed states taken from a large ensemble in the single - excitation manifold has not previously been explored .",
    "the tunnel - shape ete landscape can be understood by noting that at low trapping rates the transport efficiency is diminished by the recombination process . at high trapping rates",
    "the exciton transfer is suppressed via quantum zeno effect as the trapping process corresponds to very strong and continuous measurement of the system.,width=340,height=226 ]    here , we first examine the average sensitivity of ete with respect to randomly chosen initial states for various reorganization energies . to this end , for each value of reorganization energy , we sample over @xmath38 ( pure or mixed ) density matrices from a uniform distribution in the space of all @xmath39 trace one positive matrices . in fig .",
    "[ figinitial_state_ave ] ( a ) the average values of ete is plotted with an error bar representing the variance of ete in our random sampling .",
    "note that at the optimal etes , corresponding to the value of reorganization energy of the fmo complex , the dependency of the variances on initial states is very small  less than @xmath40 .",
    "however , the ete fluctuations can grow by an order of magnitude for larger or smaller values of @xmath31 .",
    "we also investigate the best and worst possible random initial single excitonic states in the hilbert space of fmo . in fig .",
    "[ figinitial_state_ave ] ( b ) , we illustrate this extreme possible deviations by error bars on the average ete at any given value of @xmath31 .",
    "note that ete is very robust , varying about @xmath41 with respect to different initial excitations at the optimal area of ete landscape .",
    "however , this robustness diminishes substantially at the regimes of large reorganization energy .",
    "next , we study the ete landscape as a function of trapping and dissipation rates .",
    "( left ) . the degree of ete optimality is quantified at different values of @xmath31 and @xmath42 by the norm of the ete gradient .",
    "the dark blue points represent near optimal values .",
    "( right ) the degree of ete robustness is quantified by the euclidian norm of the ete hessian .",
    "the blue points represent near robust points .",
    "the fmo achieves its maximum efficiency at @xmath43 .",
    "note that for larger reorganization energies the trapping rate has be increased to achieve optimal ete .",
    "however , this competition does not exist at small and intermediate system - bath coupling strength , where @xmath31 is on the order of off - diagonal elements of the fmo free hamiltonian leading to environment - assisted energy transport .",
    "this suggests that a general convergence of time - scale might be required to obtain global efficient and robust transport @xcite.,width=340,height=226 ]    basic structural information on the fmo - rc complex has been obtained via linear dichroism spectra and electron microscopy @xcite .",
    "these studies indicate that the symmetry axis of the trimer is normal to the membrane containing the reaction center .",
    "the electron microscopy resolution is generally not sufficient to distinguish the top and the bottom of the fmo trimer nor the distance between fmo - rc .",
    "thus , in principle either pairs of bchls 1 and 6 or bchls 3 and 4 are the pigments that connect the fmo complex to rc .",
    "however , it is widely believed , due to efficient energy funneling toward rc , that bchl 1 and 6 are the linkers to antenna baseplate , and 3 and 4 should serve as target regions within the neghibourhood of rc complex @xcite .",
    "this hypothesis has been recently verified experimentally @xcite . up to this point",
    ", we have considered bchl 3 to be in the close proximity of rc by a trapping time - scale of about @xmath44 @xmath45 . however , in this section we consider both of these parameters to be free , in order to explore the optimality and robustness of the ete landscape as we vary the time - scale and geometrical constraints set by the rc trapping mechanism .    in fig .",
    "[ figefftrapcorrect ] , we study the behavior of energy transfer efficiency landscape in various trapping time - scales and reorganization energies .",
    "it is evident that as the trapping rate becomes very slow comparable to @xmath46 @xmath45 or slower , the ete drops significantly independent of the values of @xmath31 .",
    "this can be understood intuitively as follows : the excitation has to wait on average so long for successful trapping to take place such that there will be an increasing chance of electron - hole recombination as we are approaching time - scales comparable to exciton life time .",
    "if the trapping mechanism occurs within a time - scale of @xmath44 @xmath45 , the ete reaches to its expected maximum value of about 99% .",
    "generally , one might expect that with increasingly faster trapping mechanisms the likelihood of dissipation to environment vanishes and energy transport approaches to the ideal case of having perfect efficiency .",
    "however , when the trapping rate becomes very fast on the order of @xmath47 or faster , the ete also drops significantly , a result that might appear counter - intuitive .",
    "in fact , overly rapid trapping leads to low efficiency via the quantum zeno effect , as the rapid trapping effectively freezes the exciton dynamics and prevents it from entering the reaction center . as a result",
    ", the finite exciton life - time eventually leads to complete dissipation of excitation to the environment in extreme limit of fast trapping of about @xmath48 .",
    "the optimality and robustness of ete versus both decoherence and trapping rates using gradient and hessian norms are presented in fig .",
    "[ figopt - sus - lamtrap ] ( left panel ) .",
    "it can be observed that at @xmath49 for the fmo , the ete is optimal with a trapping rate of about 0.5ps .",
    "if the environmental interactions were stronger , a comparably faster trapping mechanism would be required to preserve such high level of efficiency . however , for small and intermediate system - bath interaction strength , where environment - assisted transport occurs , slower trapping rates become optimal , that is @xmath31 and @xmath50 are not competing processes anymore .",
    "this implies that a multi - parameter convergence of time - scales of the relevant physical processes might be required for light - harvesting complexes to operate optimally @xcite . from fig .",
    "[ figefftrapcorrect ] , it can be easily seen that ete is very robust to variation of trapping rate at about @xmath44 @xmath45 time scale . in fig .",
    "[ figopt - sus - lamtrap ] , we also illustrate the robustness with respect to both trapping and reorganization energy ( right panel ) . for rather large values of @xmath31 ,",
    "there are certain regions that are highly robust to both parameters , but they are in fact suboptimal , as can be seen from noting their values in the left panel .     and reorganization energy .",
    "the maximum optimality and robustness for fmo is observed around the estimated value @xmath51 implying the significance of the time - scale separation between dissipation and trapping rates .",
    "we note that the enaqt effect is ubiquitous at all rates of electron - hole recombination process.,width=340,height=226 ]    to explore the dependence of enaqt effect on the location of reaction center , we consider the efficiency of other scenarios that the reaction center can be in the proximity of any other bchl sites .",
    "figure [ figsites ] shows ete versus reorganization energy , with a fixed @xmath52 , for all possible trapping sites . to be unbiased with the respect to the initial state , we assume a maximally mixed initial state",
    ". it can be seen that the optimal curves belong to bchls 3 and 4 as expected , since they contribute highly to the lowest energy delocalized excitonic states .",
    "it should be noted that optimal environment - assisted quantum transport , and the two extreme regimes of quantum localization can be observed for all of these plots independent of the actual location of trapping . in other words ,",
    "the behavior of the energy transport efficiency landscape and its dependence on a single governing parameter are not properties of a particular choice of trapping site in the fmo structure .    for completeness",
    ", we also investigate the ete landscape as a function of dissipation ( loss ) rate and reorganization energy in fig .",
    "[ efflamrecomb ] . in our simulation of the fmo dynamics",
    "we have used the estimated value of @xmath51 . in fig .",
    "[ efflamrecomb ] , however , we treat loss rate as a free parameter and we observe that for any stronger dissipation process , ete would have a suboptimal and less stable behavior .",
    "thus , even if all the other important parameters are within the optimal regime , a large time - scale separation between dissipation and trapping rate is still required to guarantee the highest performance for light - harvesting complexes .",
    "[ efflamrecomb ] also demonstrates that the existence of enaqt is independent of a particular choice of dissipation rate .",
    ", dipole - moment uncertainties of @xmath53 , and bchls spatial displacement of @xmath54 .",
    "the statistical distribution of @xmath38 random configurations shows a significant degree of robustness such that @xmath55 of samples still preserve an efficiency of above @xmath56.,width=340,height=226 ]",
    "so far , we have demonstrated that for the estimated hamiltonian elements of the fmo complex , the environmental parameters and trapping rates are within the right set of values leading to an optimal noise - assisted energy transfer efficiency .",
    "moreover , the performance of fmo is robust with respect to variations in such decohering and lossy processes and to uncertainties in initial conditions .",
    "however , it is not fully clear if the fmo internal hamiltonian parameters have evolved to function optimally and fault tolerantly , despite disorders and thermal fluctuations . this issue has been examined for lhcii in ref .",
    "@xcite using semi - classical pauli master equations to simulate the exciton dynamics . here",
    ", we would like to use tc2 to explore how rare is the fmo geometry in terms of its efficiency , whether the specific spatial and dipole moment arrangements of bchls are essential for such highly efficient functioning of this pigment - protein complex , and how robust these parameters are with respect to small and large perturbations in chromophoric distances , dipole moment orientations , and site energy fluctuations .",
    "specifically , we explore if the fmo closely packed structure plays any functional role , and illustrate a potentially important convergence of the relevant dynamical time - scales in the fmo energy transport . in the following section , we investigate the underlying physical principle of quantum transport in more generic multichromophoric structures beyond the fmo geometry .",
    "the frenkel exciton hamiltonian for a multichromophoric system is expressed as : @xmath57 in which @xmath5 are coulomb couplings of the transition densities of the chromophores , @xmath58 where @xmath59 denotes the distance between site @xmath3 and @xmath60 , and @xmath61 is the transition dipole moment of chromophore @xmath3 @xcite .",
    "we first study the robustness of free hamiltonian parameters within the proximity of the estimated values for fmo as given in the appendix a.     of about @xmath54 , the dipole moments can take any arbitrary direction and site energy takes any value between zero and @xmath62 .",
    "this histogram reveals that the relative distance of bchls is playing a crucial role in performance of these random light - harvesting complexes since @xmath63 of them still hold ete larger than @xmath64 .",
    ", width=340,height=226 ]      figures [ figconservative ] and [ figrandom_angle - site ] demonstrate the robustness of the fmo structure to variations in its internal parameters .",
    "figure [ figconservative ] illustrates that fmo efficiency does not drop drastically with respect to variations in the dipoles orientations , site energies , and bchls distances close to the neighborhood of the estimated values .",
    "specifically , from @xmath65 random samples of fmo with spatial uncertainty around each bchl location of about @xmath66 @xmath67 , dipole moments orientations variations of @xmath53 , and site energy static disorder @xmath68 @xmath13 , @xmath69 of configurations have efficiency of @xmath70 or higher .",
    "this demonstrates a significant degree of robustness with small perturbations . in order to separate the influence of spatial coordinates from angular dipole orientations and disorders",
    ", we allow the latter two parameters to take arbitrary values from a large range while keeping bchl locations uncertainties to be limited by @xmath66 @xmath67 .",
    "we observe in fig .",
    "[ figrandom_angle - site ] that ete remains relatively robust with @xmath63 of random @xmath65 configurations have still efficiency of @xmath71 or higher .",
    "this is rather counterintuitive considering huge freedom that we have accommodated in the dipole moment arrangements and site energies .",
    "these results indicate that spatial degrees of freedom is a dominating geometrical ingredient of the fmo structure and might play a key physical role in its performance .",
    "similar robustness to the fmo system to variation in its structure had been independently reported in ref .",
    "@xcite .       and @xmath72 .",
    "the ete manifold is plotted as a function of the scaling factor and reorganization energy .",
    "for all levels of compactness , @xmath73 yields the highest ete .",
    "a more compact complex shows a higher degree of robustness with the respect to variation in reorganization energy .",
    "the enaqt behavior can be observed at all levels of compactness , and almost all at the same reorganization energy value.,width=340,height=226 ]    our results presented in figs .",
    "[ figconservative ] and [ figrandom_angle - site ] clearly indicate that the relative bchl locations play a major role in the overall performance of the fmo complex .",
    "thus a potentially significant parameter of relevance is the compactness of a given pigment - protein complex .",
    "we further explore this feature by introducing a single _ compactness _",
    "parameter by rescaling the bchl distances by a factor k. we plot ete as a function of compactness level k varying by an order of magnitude from @xmath74 to @xmath72 .",
    "to explore any potential interplay of environmental interactions with this particular internal degree of freedom , we also simulate this size dependent supersssion / enhancement of ete in various reorganization energy , @xmath31 , in fig .",
    "[ figcompactnessfmo ] .",
    "it can be seen that although transport efficiency drops significantly by expanding the fmo structure , but the enaqt phenomenon remains scale invariant for the fmo - like structure .",
    "in this paper , we report on robustness properties of enaqt phenomenon therefore a complement to studies on the role of enaqt in optimal transport .",
    "we considered excitonic energy transfer in fmo complex and presented a comprehensive landscape study of ete as a function of energy and geometrical parameters representing system and environment degrees of freedom .",
    "we found that enaqt can assist optimal quantum transport to be robust with respect to variations in system - environment parameters .",
    "furthermore , we found that enaqt has a universal behavior meaning that it does not disappear when some of parameters are out of optimal regime .",
    "the robustness of enaqt is crucial when designing quantum transport systems enhanced by bath engineering . here",
    "our observations is based on numerical simulations of one quantum transport system , the fmo complex .",
    "it would be interesting and important to perform similar study for other natural or artificial system .",
    "we also thank j. h. choi and d. hayes for helping us with extracting the fmo data .",
    "we acknowledge funding from darpa under the qube program ( mm , as , sl , hr ) , eni ( mm , sl ) , nserc ( mm ) and nsf ( sl , as , hr ) , and isi , nec , lockheed martin , intel ( sl ) .    99    v. may and o. kuhn , _ charge and energy transfer dynamics in molecular systems _",
    "( wiley - vch , weinheim , 2004 ) .",
    "s. datta , _ quantum transport : atom to transistor _ ( cambridge university press , 2005 ) .",
    "`` qauntum effects in bilogy '' edited by m. mohseni , y. omar , g. engel , and m. plenio , ( cambridge university press , cambridge , uk , 2014 ) .",
    "m. mohseni , p. rebentrost , s. lloyd , and a. aspuru - guzik , j. chem .",
    "129 , 174106 ( 2008 ) .",
    "p. rebentrost , m. mohseni , a. aspuru - guzik , j. phys .",
    "b 113 , 9942 ( 2009 ) .",
    "p. rebentrost , m. mohseni , i. kassal , s. lloyd , and a. aspuru - guzik , new j. of phys .",
    ", 11 , 033003 ( 2009 ) .",
    "m. mohseni , a. shabani , s. lloyd , and h. rabitz , j. chem .",
    "140 , 035102 ( 2014 ) .",
    "plenio and s.f .",
    "huelga , new j. phys .",
    "10 , 113019 ( 2008 ) .",
    "f. caruso , a. w. chin , a. datta , s. f. huelga , m. b. plenio , j. of chem .",
    "131 , 105106 ( 2009 ) .",
    "a. olaya - castro , c. fan lee , f. fassioli olsen , and n. f. johnson , phys .",
    "b * 78 * , 085115 ( 2008 )",
    ".    a. w. chin , j. prior , r. rosenbach , f. caycedo - soler , s. f. huelga and m. b. plenio , nat .",
    "phys . 9 , * 113 * ( 2013 )",
    ".    j. oreilly , a. olaya - castro , arxiv:1301.6970 .",
    "engel , t. r. calhoun , e. l. read , t. k. ahn , t. mancal , y. c. cheng , r. e. blankenship and g. r. fleming , nature 446 , 782 ( 2007 ) .",
    "h. lee , y .- c .",
    "cheng , and g.r .",
    "fleming , science 316 , 1462 ( 2007 ) .",
    "g. panitchayangkoon , d. hayes , k. a. fransted , j. r. caram , e. harel , j. wen , r. e. blankenship , g. s. engel , proc .",
    "sci 107 , 12766 ( 2010 ) .",
    "a. f. fidler , j. r. caram , d. hayes , and g. s. engel , journal of physics b , 45 154013 ( 2012 ) .",
    "d. hayes and g.s .",
    "engel , philosophical transactions of the royal society a , 370 3692 ( 2012 ) .",
    "a. shabani , m. mohseni , h. rabitz , and s. lloyd , phys .",
    "e , 86 011915 ( 2012 ) .",
    "m. mohseni , a. shabani , s. lloyd , y. omar , and h. rabitz , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 138 , 204309 , ( 2013 ) .    j wu , f. liu , y. shen , j. cao and r. j. silbey , new j. phys . 12 , 105012 ( 2010 ) .",
    "m. cho , h.m .",
    "vaswani , t. brixner , j. stenger , and g.r .",
    "fleming , j. phys .",
    "b * 109 , * 10542 ( 2005 ) .",
    "x. hu , t. ritz , a. damjanovi , and k. j. schulten , phys .",
    "b * 101 * , 3854 ( 1997 ) .",
    "t. ritz , s. park , and k. schulten , j. phys .",
    "b 105 , 8259 ( 2001 ) .",
    "j. adolphs and t. renger , biophys .",
    "j. * 91 , * 2778 ( 2006 ) .",
    "a. ishizaki , g.r .",
    "fleming , proc .",
    "sci usa 106 , 17255 ( 2009 ) .",
    "b. cui , x. x. yi , and c. h. oh , j. of phys .",
    "b 45 , 085501 ( 2012 ) .",
    "s. jesenko , m. znidaric , new j. phys .",
    "14 , 093017 ( 2012 ) .",
    "j. gilmore and r. h. mckenzie , j. phys .",
    "a , 112 , 2162 ( 2008 ) .",
    "remigy , h. w. , h. stahlberg , d. fotiadis , b. wolpensinger , a. engel , g. hauska , and g. tsiotis , j. mol .",
    "290 , 851 ( 1999 ) .",
    "j. wen , h. zhang , m. l. gross , r. e. blankenship , proc .",
    "usa 106 , 6134 ( 2009 ) .",
    "sener , d. lu , t. ritz , s. park , p. fromme , and k. schulten , j. phys .",
    "b * 106 , * 7948 ( 2002 ) .",
    "the fmo pdb file was provided by m. cho laboratory .",
    "in this work we use the fmo hamiltonian given in ref .",
    "@xcite : @xmath75"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent theoretical studies show that decoherence process can enhance transport efficiency in quantum systems . </S>",
    "<S> this effect is known as environment - assisted quantum transport ( enaqt ) . </S>",
    "<S> the role of enaqt in optimal quantum transport is well investigated , however , it is less known how robust enaqt is with respect to variations in the system or its environment characteristic . toward answering this question , we simulated excitonic energy transfer in fenna - matthews - olson ( fmo ) photosynthetic complex . </S>",
    "<S> we found that enaqt is robust with respect to many relevant parameters of environmental interactions and frenkel - exciton hamiltonian including reorganization energy , bath frequency cutoff , temperature , and initial excitations , dissipation rate , trapping rate , disorders , and dipole moments orientations . </S>",
    "<S> our study suggests that the enaqt phenomenon can be exploited in robust design of highly efficient quantum transport systems . </S>"
  ]
}