{
  "article_text": [
    "the stellar disc of the milky way , as well as of many nearby galaxies , is traditionally viewed as consisting of two distinct components : a thin and a thick disc ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . the milky way s thick disc not only has a larger scale - height than the thin disc @xcite , but it is also older , more metal - poor , and enhanced in alpha elements @xcite .",
    "its stars have a higher velocity dispersion , and lag behind in rotation compared to the thin disc @xcite .",
    "many formation mechanisms have been proposed for the thick disc , such as being formed thick ( following gas rich mergers , as in @xcite , or via clumpy disc instabilities as in @xcite ) , thickened by minor mergers after it is formed @xcite or built from accreted stars @xcite .",
    "some authors have also argued that radial migration could create a thick disc @xcite , although @xcite recently showed that radial migration alone is not efficient at heating discs .",
    "discriminating between these formation mechanisms is a complex issue ; it has been suggested that different scenarios could be constrained by the shape of the discs @xcite , and the distribution of their stars eccentricities @xcite or the presence of an excess of stars at high altitudes @xcite .",
    "it is worth noting that there may not be a clear thin - thick disc dichotomy in the milky way @xcite . using segue",
    "spectroscopic survey data , @xcite have shown that the thin and thick disc are not two separate components , but that instead a continuity of properties is found when slicing the milky way disc into populations of similar chemical abundances .",
    "they also find that each of these mono - abundance populations has a very simple spatial and kinematical structure @xcite .",
    "there is a clear anti - correlation between the scale - height and scale - length of these populations , so that the youngest ones are also the coldest and the most radially extended ( assuming that age can be matched with chemical abundance , as has been shown to be very likely by @xcite for a sample of solar neighbourhood stars , and by @xcite for a simulated galaxy ) .",
    "bovy et al .",
    "argue this is clear evidence for inside - out formation , and evidence against mergers , which would have created distinct components instead of the observed smooth continuum .",
    "similarly , @xcite also found a continuity of vertical velocity dispersion ( @xmath1 ) as a function of chemical abundance , with no obvious gap in the kinematics of old and young stars .    in the light of these new observational results ,",
    "numerical simulations have also been sliced into mono - abundance or mono - age populations @xcite and show interesting similarities with the structure of the milky way .",
    "both studies find that mono - age populations are simple structures , and confirm that the anti - correlation between scale - height and scale - length arises as a consequence of inside - out formation .",
    "@xcite perform a direct comparison with the bovy et al .",
    "results , and show that the mono - abundance groups correspond roughly to mono - age groups .",
    "they are unable to reproduce the thickness of the oldest stars in the milky way , and also do not find a continuity between thin and thick disc , but rather a clear bimodality between the two components .    in this paper , we aim at extending this work by analysing a sample of seven simulated galaxies with different merger histories .",
    "we aim at understanding which observed properties are generic features of disc evolution , and which ones are a clear indicator of a merger - free history .",
    "this paper is the first of a series ; paper ii @xcite is focused on the age - velocity relation ( i.e. the relation between the ages of stars and their vertical velocity dispersion ) and a study of disc heating in simulations . throughout these papers ,",
    "our goal is not to find a simulated galaxy that exactly matches all properties of the milky way , but rather to explore different types of formation histories and study their consequences for the structure of discs at @xmath0 .",
    "we present our simulations in section 2 , and discuss in section 3 the simplicity ( or otherwise ) of the spatial and kinematical structure of mono - age populations . in section 3 , we discuss the conditions for an anti - correlation between scale - height and scale - length , and in section 5 the conditions for a dichotomy between thin and thick components . finally , we discuss in section 6 which properties are imprinted at birth or are due to subsequent evolution .",
    "we also present constraints on the merger history of the milky way , and discuss the limitations of our approach .",
    "we conclude and summarize in section 7 .",
    "from the sample of 33 galaxies presented in @xcite , we select seven disc galaxies with a range of merger histories , from a galaxy with an extremely quiescent history in the last 89 gyr to a galaxy undergoing a late 1:4 merger . in this section",
    ", we present the simulation technique and the galaxies , and explain how we analyse their structure .      the galaxies are drawn from a larger sample of 33 simulated galaxies , described in @xcite .",
    "we refer the reader to @xcite for a detailed description of the technique and the sample , and only describe here the main features .",
    "the galaxies are simulated using a zoom - in technique in two steps ( the technical details are discussed in @xcite ) .",
    "the first step consists in running a large dark - matter only simulation with the adaptive mesh refinement code ramses @xcite , and extracting merger and accretion histories for interesting dark matter haloes .",
    "we target haloes with a mass between @xmath2 and @xmath3 m@xmath4 , and that are in relatively isolated environments . for these target haloes , not only",
    "do we record the time , mass , velocity and spin of incoming satellites , but we also keep track of diffuse dark matter accretion , for instance along filaments .    the second step is to re - simulate each merger and accretion history .",
    "for that we use the particle - mesh code described in @xcite , with gas dynamics modelled by a sticky - particle algorithm .",
    "our box size is 800 kpc , the spatial resolution is 150 pc , the mass resolution is @xmath5  m@xmath6 for gas particles , @xmath7  m@xmath6 for star particles ( @xmath5  m@xmath6 for star particles formed from gas during the simulation ) , and @xmath8  m@xmath6 for dark matter particles . for the galaxies studied here ,",
    "there are typically 2 to 6 million star particles in the discs at @xmath0 .",
    "star formation is modelled by a schmidt law with an exponent of 1.5 @xcite , using a gas density threshold of 0.03 m@xmath6pc@xmath9 ( i.e. , 1 h cm@xmath9 ) .",
    "stellar mass loss is taken into account ( see @xcite ) , as well as kinetic feedback from supernovae explosions , where 20% of the energy of the supernovae is distributed to neighbouring gas particles .",
    "each re - simulation starts at @xmath11 with a seed galaxy , and follows its evolution down to @xmath0 with mergers and diffuse accretion as prescribed by the cosmological simulation .",
    "each halo that was tracked in the cosmological simulation is replaced with a galaxy made of a dark matter halo , a stellar disc and bulge , and a gas disc .",
    "the stellar mass of the galaxies is chosen to obey the scaling relations of @xcite , and their gas fraction evolves with redshift .",
    "diffuse accretion is modelled by assuming that gas follows dark matter , in an amount given by the cosmic baryon fraction . each diffuse dark matter particle of the initial simulation",
    "is then replaced with a new blob of gas and dark matter particles .",
    "the main advantage of this re - simulation technique is the relatively low computing time , permitting us to compile statistically interesting samples of galaxies .",
    "the 33 galaxies introduced in @xcite span a large range of bulge fractions at @xmath0 , from nearly bulgeless to bulge - dominated systems .",
    "@xcite studied how this final morphology compared to the morphology at earlier redshift , and discussed how the bulge fraction is connected with the merger and gas accretion history . in the sample ,",
    "the fraction of barred galaxies at @xmath0 and higher redshift is realistic when compared to observations @xcite , and a detailed chemical modelling of one of the galaxies has shown an interesting match to many features found in the milky way @xcite .",
    "note also that disc dynamics and radial migration properties have been compared with isolated galaxy simulations performed with a tree - sph code , and good agreement was found @xcite .",
    ".properties of the simulated galaxies at @xmath0 : stellar mass within the optical radius , bulge fraction as measured with galfit @xcite , optical radius ( @xmath12 measured in @xmath13-band ) , disc scale - length ( @xmath14 ) obtained from an exponential fit to the stellar mass distribution .",
    "the last column shows a brief description of their formation history ( mergers are denoted by a mass ratio ) [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     as a function of the fraction of the stellar mass in a hot component ( i.e. with @xmath1@xmath15 km  s@xmath16 ) .",
    "the data points are shown for all simulated galaxies , at 2 @xmath14 ( in red ) and 3 @xmath14 ( in blue ) , and with two different ways of measuring @xmath1as in table [ tab - slopes ] ( dots : direct measures , triangles : from gaussian fits ) .",
    "the inset shows a zoom on the bottom left part of the plot .",
    "we find that the galaxies closest to isothermality ( i.e. an average vertical slope closest to 0 ) are the ones with the lowest contribution of stars in a hot component , although this is not directly related with their merger history ( g102 has a very low slope but a 1:15 merger at @xmath17 gyr and a high bulge fraction).,scaledwidth=45.0% ]      from this section , we conclude that :    * radial profiles are nearly always simple exponentials for all maps , independently of the merger history ( although younger stars have more complex profiles ) * vertical density profiles are also nearly always successfully fitted by simple exponentials . in all cases but one ( g92 ) , scale - heights increase with radius .",
    "the absence of flaring seems connected with a very quiescent history * @xmath1increases with height above the disc plane for all our galaxies , although the relation flattens strongly ( or sometimes even reverses ) for old stars .",
    "galaxies for which @xmath1rises with @xmath18 slowly have the lowest contribution of bulge / halo stars at the radius where @xmath1is measured , independently of their total bulge fraction or merger history .",
    "@xcite find an anti - correlation of the scale - length and scale - height of mono - abundance populations in the milky way .",
    "this corresponds to a situation where younger stars are in progressively thinner and more extended components .",
    "this configuration was also found in the simulation presented in @xcite .",
    "we examine if this is the case in our seven simulations , and what are the conditions that create such an anti - correlation .",
    "we have already discussed in the previous section the evolution of scale - height and scale - length with age .",
    "we found a smooth increase of @xmath19 with age for quiescent galaxies , and more complex dependence for galaxies with mergers ( at the exception of g106 ) .",
    "the time evolution of scale - lengths was found to be more complex , with quiescent galaxies showing an increase of @xmath20 for younger stars , with the exception of g37 where @xmath20 is mostly constant for all stars younger than 6 gyr .",
    "mergers influence the radial distribution of maps , and they redistribute old stars and gas .                     because of",
    "these irregularities in @xmath19 and @xmath20 vs age , @xmath19 and @xmath20 are not necessarily anti - correlated for all galaxies . in figure",
    "[ fig : scales ] we show @xmath19 as a function of @xmath20 for maps in the seven galaxies ( the value of @xmath19 we use here is the one measured at @xmath21 , but we verified that choosing a radius of @xmath22 did not change the results ) .",
    "we find a variety of structures , even amongst the quiescent galaxies .",
    "both g47 and g92 show a banana - shaped distribution of points , corresponding to an anti - correlation of @xmath19 and @xmath20 . for g37",
    "no such structure is seen , and most points are clustered around @xmath20=68 kpc : as described before , @xmath20 does not increase with age for this galaxy .",
    "three of the four galaxies with a merger show a common interesting feature in figure [ fig : scales ] , with populations at the time of the merger gathered along a line of positive slope , departing from the arched locus defined by the rest of the populations ( this is really pronounced for g48 and g102 , less so for g22 ) .",
    "this diagonal feature corresponds to a correlation of @xmath19 and @xmath20 for the populations affected by the merger .",
    "once again , g106 is different from the other active galaxies : in spite of a merger , the anti - correlation is well preserved .",
    "contrary to g47 and g92 , where there is a gap between oldest stars ( red colours ) and the disc populations , in g106 we find that the populations affected by the merger fill that gap so that there is a continuity of scale - heights from the disc to the inner halo / very thick disc .",
    "we conclude that :    * the anti - correlation between @xmath20 and @xmath19 can be reproduced by simulations * the anti - correlation does not necessarily imply an absence of mergers .",
    "in this section we explore if our simulated galaxies show a clear thin / thick disc dichotomy , or a continuum of scale - heights for populations of increasing age .",
    "we have already discussed that mergers create gaps in the distribution of @xmath19 with age , which suggests that galaxies undergoing mergers would tend to host distinct thin and thick discs . however , even for galaxies with a continuous range of @xmath19 for maps , depending on the star formation history of the galaxy and the mass in each population , gaps could appear in otherwise smooth @xmath19 distributions when weighted by the mass in each map .    in figure [",
    "fig : mass ] we show for each simulated galaxy the star formation history within a 2 kpc - wide annulus at @xmath21 ( these values are computed from the stellar mass in each map , and are thus representative of the stars found at @xmath21 at @xmath0 independently of their birth location ) .",
    "we indeed find that some maps contain very little mass .",
    "for most galaxies , little mass is in populations older than 8 gyr . for @xmath23 gyr ,",
    "the increasing mass in each map corresponds to the start of disc formation , and is due to a mixture of stars born in situ and of stars born in the rest of the galaxy which have migrated to @xmath21 by @xmath0 .",
    "we find that mergers create v - shaped features in this relation ( this is particularly obvious for g22 , g48 and g102 , bottom panels in figure [ fig : mass ] ) .",
    "a similar shape was found in figure [ fig : r0 ] for the evolution of the scale - length of the maps . as discussed in section [ sec : rcarac ] , this corresponds to star formation being limited to the central regions of the galaxies after a merger occurred .",
    "this also explains why few of these stars are found at a radius of @xmath21 , and why discontinuities are observed in the time evolution of the mass of maps at that radius .",
    "combined with discontinuities in the scale - height of maps because of mergers , this has the potential to create a dichotomy between a thin and thick disc .    to explore that issue , we use a similar plot as the one introduced by bovy et al ( 2012a ) .",
    "we study how much each map contributes to the total stellar mass surface density at a given radius as a function of their @xmath19 . in figure",
    "[ fig : bimodality_250myr ] we show the contribution of each map , as well as the contributions binned as a function of @xmath19 ( in bins of 150 pc ) . to improve the statistics , we here consider maps in 250 myr age bins instead of 500 myr as previously ( the large number of particles in each map allows us to reduce the width of each age bin while still keeping enough star particles to determine @xmath19 ) .",
    "this figure shows that there is a clear difference between galaxies with quiescent and active merger histories .",
    "a first difference is that the scale - height for the thickest population is greater in galaxies with mergers relative to quiescent galaxies .",
    "in addition , the three quiescent galaxies show a continuous distribution of scale - heights ( the shapes of these distributions being quite different from one galaxy to another ) , while the galaxies with mergers show some bimodal distributions , with clear gaps for g22 , g48 and g102 .",
    "these gaps are a result of jumps in @xmath19 for populations influenced by the mergers , and match the time of coalescence of the last merger so that the `` thick '' populations are the pre - merger populations ( note that mergers also create jumps in the age - velocity relation as discussed in paper ii ) .",
    "we find that g106 does not have such a clear gap , but still shows more bimodality than the quiescent galaxies .",
    "we also note that even in the case of a continuous distribution of scale - heights , a simple two - component fit to the vertical density profile of stars could give the impression of a bimodality .",
    "for instance , for g92 , which has a very regular and continuous structure , a decomposition into a thin and thick disc is possible ( but perhaps not physically meaningful ) , and gives scale - heights of @xmath24300  pc and @xmath24800  pc , relatively constant with radius out to @xmath25 .",
    "this means that the standard decompositions into thin and thick discs are entirely compatible with a continuum of scale - heights for maps ( as also shown by @xcite for the milky way ) .",
    "assuming that mono - age populations are similar to mono - abundance populations , we conclude that , indeed , a continuous distribution of @xmath19 as shown in the milky way is a strong indicator of a very quiescent merger history .",
    "it is interesting to note that @xcite have performed a similar test for one of their galaxies undergoing mergers and they find a bimodality in the distribution of @xmath19 ( their figure 10 ) , supporting our basic picture .",
    "and 8.1 gyr .",
    "the evolution of each population is shown at regular times between birth and 13.7 gyr ( from dark blue to red curves ) . also shown",
    "are the scale - length from an exponential fit of each profile . in both cases , soon after birth , the density profile is irregular and truncated at a small radius . with time , the profiles become smoother and the truncation moves out to larger radii .",
    "while both populations end up with a very similar profile at @xmath26 gyr , their starting points are very different : in one case ( top panel ) a very flat profile with a large scale - length at birth , and in the other case a birth scale - length which is very close to the final one .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=45.0% ]   and 8.1 gyr .",
    "the evolution of each population is shown at regular times between birth and 13.7 gyr ( from dark blue to red curves ) . also shown",
    "are the scale - length from an exponential fit of each profile . in both cases , soon after birth , the density profile is irregular and truncated at a small radius . with time , the profiles become smoother and the truncation moves out to larger radii .",
    "while both populations end up with a very similar profile at @xmath26 gyr , their starting points are very different : in one case ( top panel ) a very flat profile with a large scale - length at birth , and in the other case a birth scale - length which is very close to the final one .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=45.0% ]    we now study how stars in maps are re - distributed radially as a function of time . as an example , figure [ fig : radial_evol ] shows the time evolution of the radial surface density profile for two maps in galaxy g92 .",
    "it illustrates some general features seen in our simulated galaxies .",
    "soon after birth , the surface density profile of a map is irregular , following overdensities in the gas disc ( typically spiral arms and rings ) .",
    "as stars migrate radially , the irregularities are blurred and the profile smoothens significantly .",
    "this redistribution of mass occurs for all populations in all simulated galaxies .",
    "another effect of migration is that , while the profile for young stars often shows a break in the outer regions , as stars move outwards , this break is either erased or moved to larger radii ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this populates the outer disc with stars that were born in the inner regions ( this is the case for both populations shown in figure [ fig : radial_evol ] ) .",
    "note that this expansion in the outer disc is matched by an increase of mass in the inner regions , to conserve the total angular momentum .    to quantify the radial extension of the profiles , we measure how @xmath27 ( the radius enclosing 95% of stars ) changes with time for a given map .",
    "the strongest variations are seen for g92 ; for instance for the population shown in the top panel in figure [ fig : radial_evol ] , @xmath27 grows from 13.5  kpc at birth ( @xmath28 gyr ) to 22 kpc at @xmath0 .",
    "other galaxies usually show smaller variations of @xmath27 with time , but if @xmath27 evolves , it always increases with time .",
    "we also find that the expansion of the stars is not limited to the first gyr after birth , but is a continuous process : for both maps shown in figure [ fig : radial_evol ] , the outer parts of the profile change continuously .",
    "while exponential fits are not always the most informative way to describe the profiles ( particularly when they are irregular soon after birth ) , we also use them to characterize the profiles ( each profile is fitted from @xmath14 to @xmath27 ) .",
    "we find that the measured scale - lengths are either constant with time , or decline ( which corresponds to a steepening of the profiles ) . the map shown in the bottom panel in figure [ fig : radial_evol ] corresponds to a situation where there is only little evolution of the scale - length ( from 7.1 kpc at birth to 6 kpc at @xmath0 ) .",
    "by contrast , the map in the top panel of that figure has a very flat density profile at birth , with a sharp truncation .",
    "as the truncation moves outwards with time , the overall profile also steepens .    for maps where the scale - length declines with time , the strongest changes are often seen in the first gyr of evolution ,",
    "as it is the case in the top panel of figure [ fig : radial_evol ] : for this sub - population of g92 , there is a significant steepening of the profile in the first gyr , and the scale - length remains nearly constant for the remaining @xmath24 5 gyr of evolution .",
    "we thus find that radial migration has a strong influence on the density profiles of maps , and makes it hard to reconstruct birth properties from the present - day state : both maps shown in figure [ fig : radial_evol ] have similar profiles at @xmath0 , but in one case the stars were born with a very flat profile and a sharp truncation , while in the other case the scale - length did not change much with time . in both cases ,",
    "though , migration had a strong influence on the outer disc , populating it with stars born in the inner disc .",
    "the time evolution of the vertical velocity dispersion , and the sources of heating , are the focus of paper ii , to which we refer the reader for more details .",
    "we here briefly summarize the findings of that paper .",
    "we find that the vertical structure of the oldest stars ( ages greater than 89 gyr ) is mostly imprinted at birth : these stars are born hot in a violent phase at high redshift .",
    "after that , though , stars are mostly born with a constant ( or slightly decreasing ) velocity dispersion , at least in galaxies with a quiescent merger history .",
    "we find that the shape of the age - velocity relation is then due to heating after birth .",
    "we find that radial migration is not the source of that heating , at least at the radius of 2@xmath14 that we studied in paper ii : at that radius , the stars born in situ mostly determine the total @xmath1 .",
    "stars coming from the inner disc have a slightly larger @xmath1 , and stars from the outer disc a smaller @xmath1 , so that the net effect of migration on the total @xmath1is small ( see figure 7 in paper ii ) .",
    "we discuss in paper ii that the sources of heating vary from one galaxy to another , but include heating due to disc growth , and heating due to a combination of spiral arms and bars coupled with overdensities in the disc and vertical bending waves .",
    "mergers with a ratio of 1:10 should be quite common for milky - way mass galaxies in the last 10 gyr @xcite , and are usually thought to be quite damaging to the discs @xcite , even if their effect might have been overestimated @xcite .",
    "indeed , @xcite argue that a recent 1:10 merger would not be in conflict with the present - day structure of the milky way , provided that the milky way contained at least 20% of gas at the time of the merger .",
    "our simulations suggest that the structure of maps is very sensitive to these mergers ( and is thus a better tracer of the merger history than the global bulge fraction ) .",
    "we showed that mergers in the range 1:101:15 happening in the last 7 gyr leave some clear jumps in the avr and create bimodal distributions of scale - heights .",
    "these results , in combination with the observations presented in @xcite , would mean that the milky way has experienced no such merger since @xmath29 ( as already speculated for instance by @xcite ) .",
    "it is however very likely that mergers played an important role in shaping the density distribution of older stars .",
    "indeed , we find that internal evolution is not enough to produce the hottest thick disc stars , such as are found in the milky way .",
    "this is illustrated by g92 , which shows a very regular and smooth structure for most maps , and density profiles that do not flare vertically . in that",
    ", g92 is probably similar to the milky way .",
    "however , the range of scale - heights found for the disc , from 200 to 800 pc for young to old stars , is slightly smaller than in the milky way , where the thickest stars have a scale - height of 1000  pc @xcite .",
    "we also find that in g92 the oldest disc stars only reach a vertical velocity dispersion of @xmath24 30 km  s@xmath16(for a galactocentric distance of 2@xmath14 , see figure [ fig : prof_sigma ] and paper ii ) , while @xcite find that the oldest local disc populations have a @xmath1of about 50 km  s@xmath16 .",
    "some violent early event seems necessary to produce the thickest and hottest disc populations ( in addition to building the halo ) , as is the case for g106 , and as is demonstrated in @xcite by comparing g106 with rave data .",
    "this idea is consistent with the results of @xcite , where the thick disc of the milky way is found to be made of two components , the oldest one likely coming from mergers , and the rest being formed by internal mechanisms .",
    "we have not discussed thick disc formation by clump instabilities , since this is not a mechanism that significantly affects the evolution of our selected simulated galaxies .",
    "it is however a possible mechanism for forming thick discs .",
    "it remains to be seen if it is consistent with the complex chemical signatures discussed in @xcite .",
    "we study a sample of seven simulated galaxies , which we slice into stellar populations in age bins of 500 myr ( `` mono - age populations '' , or maps ) .",
    "we measure the spatial and kinematical properties of these populations to study if and how they retain traces of the formation history of their host galaxies . in particular , we have studied the influence of mergers on the structure of maps by comparing galaxies with no significant merger in the last @xmath30 gyr ( 3 galaxies in our sample ) to galaxies with various types of mergers at low redshift ( 4 other galaxies ) .",
    "all the studied galaxies undergo a phase of merging activity at @xmath31 , so that stars older than 9 gyr are always found in a spheroidal and centrally concentrated component .",
    "a fraction of these stars are accreted from the merging satellite galaxies .",
    "younger stars are mostly found in the discs , and the properties of these discs are the main focus of this paper .",
    "we do not discuss the properties of bulges and bars , and often present quantities measured at a galactocentric radius of 2 or 3 @xmath14 , where @xmath14 is the global disc exponential scale - length .",
    "we first find that most maps have radial surface density profiles that can be fitted by an exponential ( section 3.1 ) , with the exception of the youngest stars ( which have complex profiles , following spiral arms and rings found in the gas discs ) .",
    "the complexity of radial profiles for young stars is actually common at all redshifts , and the final profiles result from gradual smoothing of the initial distribution because of radial migration of stars . in most cases ,",
    "most of the radial evolution occurs in the first gyr after birth , but with ongoing changes down to @xmath0 .",
    "an important feature of migration is that it is very efficient at populating the outer disc with stars born in the inner regions , and it has a strong impact on the overall shape of the density profiles ( section 6.1 ) . in the end",
    ", we find that younger stars tend to have larger scale - lengths , both as a result of their properties at birth and of a steepening of the profiles with time .",
    "mergers have a noticeable effect on radial density profiles , by both redistributing the old stars and changing the spatial distribution of newly formed stars .",
    "we have also studied the vertical density profile and vertical velocity dispersion of maps ( sections 3.2 and 3.3 ) .",
    "we find that the vertical density profiles can be fitted by simple exponentials .",
    "looking at the variation of scale - height with radius , we often see an increase of the scale - height at larger radius , giving a flared geometry to the maps .",
    "the three quiescent galaxies show the simplest structures : populations of increasing age have an increasing scale - height , and this is true at all radii .",
    "mergers introduce some complexity , and also seem to increase the flaring of populations affected by mergers ( as expected from previous studies ) .",
    "we similarly find that @xmath1is an increasing function of age ( see details in paper ii ) .",
    "the increased @xmath1for older stars comes from two different origins : oldest stars are truly born kinematically hot ( following the mergers happening at high redshift ) , while for stars younger than @xmath32 gyr we find that @xmath1at birth is small and nearly constant with time .",
    "these stars are subsequently heated to their present day @xmath1 .",
    "we find that radial migration is only a minor source of heating ( if any ) .",
    "we also show in paper ii that @xmath1is very sensitive to mergers , which create jumps in the age - velocity relation .",
    "finally , we quantify the isothermality of each map by measuring @xmath1at a fixed radius , but as a function of height above the disc .",
    "we find that @xmath1increases with height above the disc plane for all our galaxies .",
    "galaxies closest to isothermality have the lowest contribution of bulge / halo stars at the radius where @xmath1is measured , independently of their total bulge fraction or merger history .    as a result of the properties at birth , radial redistribution and vertical heating",
    ", we find that the relation between scale - length and scale - height is complex ( section 4 ) . assuming the equivalence between mono - age and mono - abundance populations , the anti - correlation observed in the milky way @xcite is reproduced by some of our simulations ( @xcite show however that even if such an anti - correlation is found for mono - age populations , it might not be seen for mono - abundance populations ) .    in any case",
    ", the presence of an anti - correlation does not necessarily imply an absence of mergers : we both find a quiescent galaxy with no anti - correlation ( g37 ) and a galaxy with mergers but a really nice anti - correlation ( g106 ) .",
    "we suggest that a better indicator of past mergers is the repartition of stellar mass as a function of scale - height ( section 5 ) .",
    "we find that our quiescent galaxies show a continuous distribution of scale - heights , while a bimodality between a thick and thin component is found when mergers occur .",
    "the continuous distribution found in the milky way by @xcite points then towards an evolution dominated by secular processes .",
    "we also note that even in the case of a continuous distribution of scale - heights , a simple two - component fit to the vertical distribution of stars could give the impression of a bimodality .",
    "this means that the standard decompositions into thin and thick discs are totally compatible with a continuum of scale - heights for mono - age populations .",
    "however , our simulations do not produce the thickest , hottest components in the absence of mergers .",
    "that would suggest that the old component of the milky way has a mixed origin , also in agreement with @xcite .",
    "we thank the referee for a constructive report . we thank hans - walter rix , jo bovy and alex bdenbender for useful comments .",
    "mm is supported by a humboldt research fellowship .",
    "cf acknowledges financial support by the beckwith trust .",
    "plain abadi m.  g. , navarro j.  f. , steinmetz m. , eke v.  r. , 2003 , apj , 597 , 21 allende prieto c. , beers t.  c. , wilhelm r. , newberg h.  j. , rockosi c.  m. , yanny b. , lee y.  s. , 2006 , apj , 636 , 804 aumer m. , white s.  d.  m. , 2013 , mnras , 428 , 1055 bensby t. , feltzing s. , lundstrm i. , ilyin i. , 2005 , a&a , 433 , 185 binney j. , tremaine s. , 1987 , princeton university press bird j.  c. , kazantzidis s. , weinberg d.  h. , guedes j. , callegari s. , mayer l. , madau p. , 2013",
    ", apj , 773 , 43 bond n.  a. , et al . , 2010 , apj , 716 , 1 bournaud , f. , combes , f. , 2002 , a&a , 392 , 83 bournaud , f. , combes , f. , 2003 , a&a , 401 , 817 bournaud f. , elmegreen b.  g. , martig m. , 2009 , apj , 707 , l1 bovy j. , rix h .- w .",
    ", hogg d.  w.  2012a , apj , 751 , 131 bovy j. , rix h .- w . , liu c. , hogg d. w. , beers t. c. , lee , y. s.  2012b , apj , 753 , 148 bovy j. , rix h .- w . , hogg d.  w. , beers t. c. , lee , y. s. , zhang l.  2012c , apj , 755 , 115 bovy j. , rix h .- w . , 2013 , arxiv , arxiv:1309.0809 brook c.  b. , kawata d. , gibson b.  k. , freeman k.  c. , 2004 , apj , 612 , 894 burstein , d.  1979 , apj , 234 , 829 chen b. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 553 , 184 comern s. , et al . , 2011 ,",
    "apj , 741 , 28 dalcanton j.  j. , bernstein r.  a. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 1328 di matteo p. , lehnert m.  d. , qu y. , van driel w. , 2011 , a&a , 525 , l3 fathi k. , allen m. , boch t. , hatziminaoglou e. , peletier r.  f. , 2010 , mnras , 406 , 1595 freudenreich h.  t. , 1998 , apj , 492 , 495 fuhrmann k. , 1998 , a&a , 338 , 161 gilmore g. , reid n. , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 1025 gilmore g. , wyse r.  f.  g. , jones j.  b. , 1995 , aj , 109 , 1095 haywood , m. , di matteo , p. , lehnert , m.  d. , katz , d. , gmez , a.  2013 , a&a , 560 , a109 juri m. , et al . , 2008 , apj , 673 , 864 kazantzidis s. , bullock j.  s. , zentner a.  r. , kravtsov a.  v. , moustakas l.  a. , 2008 , apj , 688 , 254 kennicutt r.  c. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 541 kraljic k. , bournaud f. , martig m. ,  2012 , apj , 757 , 60 loebman s.  r. , rokar r. , debattista v.  p. , ivezi  . , quinn t.  r. , wadsley j. , 2011 , apj , 737 , 8 liu c. , van de ven g. , 2012 , mnras , 425 , 2144 martig m. , bournaud f. , teyssier r. , dekel a. ,  2009 , apj , 707 , 250 martig m. , bournaud f. ,  2010 , apj , 714 , l275 martig m. , bournaud f. , croton d.  j. , dekel a. , teyssier r. ,  2012 , apj , 756 , 26 martig m. , minchev i. , flynn c. ,  2014 , arxiv:1405.1727 mcmillan p.  j. , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 2446 minchev i. , famaey b. , quillen a.  c. , di matteo p. , combes f. , vlaji m. , erwin p. , bland - hawthorn j. , 2012a , a&a , 548 , a126 minchev i. , famaey b. , quillen a.  c. , dehnen w. , martig m. , siebert a. ,  2012b , a&a , 548 , 127 minchev i. , chiappini c. , martig m. ,  2013 , a&a , 558 , a9 minchev , i. , et al .  2014 , apj , 781 , l20 moster b.  p. , somerville r.  s. , maulbetsch c. , van den bosch f.  c. , macci a.  v. , naab t. , oser l. , 2010a , apj , 710 , 903 moster b.  p. , macci a.  v. , somerville r.  s. , johansson p.  h. , naab t. , 2010b , mnras , 403 , 1009 nemec j. , nemec a.  f.  l. , 1991 , pasp , 103 , 95 nemec j.  m. , nemec a.  f.  l. , 1993 , aj , 105 , 1455 norris j. , 1987 , apj , 314 , l39 peng c.  y. , ho l.  c. , impey c.  d. , rix h .- w . , 2002 , aj , 124 , 266 prochaska j.  x. , naumov s.  o. , carney b.  w. , mcwilliam a. , wolfe a.  m. , 2000 , aj , 120 , 2513 qu y. , di matteo p. , lehnert m.  d. , van driel w. , 2011 , a&a , 530 , a10 quinn p.  j. , hernquist l. , fullagar d.  p. , 1993",
    ", apj , 403 , 74 read j.  i. , lake g. , agertz o. , debattista v.  p. , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , 389 , 1041 reddy b.  e. , lambert d.  l. , allende prieto c. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 1329 rix h .- w .",
    ", bovy j. , 2013 , a&arv , 21 , 61 robin a.  c. , haywood m. , creze m. , ojha d.  k. , bienayme o. , 1996 , a&a , 305 , 125 robin , a.  c. , reyl , c. , derrire , s. , & picaud , s.  2003 , a&a , 409 , 523 ryan s.  g. , norris j.  e. , 1993 , aspc , 49 , 103 sales l.  v. , et al . , 2009 , mnras , 400 , l61 schnrich r. , binney j. , 2009a , mnras , 396 , 203 schnrich r. , binney j. , 2009b , mnras , 399 , 1145 seabroke g.  m. , gilmore g. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 1348 soubiran c. , bienaym o. , siebert a. , 2003 , a&a , 398 , 141 stewart k.  r. , bullock j.  s. , wechsler r.  h. , maller a.  h. , zentner a.  r. , 2008 , apj , 683 , 597 stinson g.  s. , et al . , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 625 teyssier r. , 2002 , a&a , 385 , 337 tsikoudi , v.  1979 , apj , 234 , 842 velazquez h. , white s.  d.  m. , 1999 , mnras , 304 , 254 villalobos  . , helmi a. , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 1806 yin j. , hou j.  l. , prantzos n. , boissier s. , chang r.  x. , shen s.  y. , zhang b. , 2009 , a&a , 505 , 497 yoachim p. , dalcanton j.  j. , 2006 , aj , 131 , 226"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study seven simulated disc galaxies , three with a quiescent merger history , and four with mergers in their last 9 gyr of evolution . </S>",
    "<S> we compare their structure at @xmath0 by decomposing them into `` mono - age populations '' ( maps ) of stars within 500 myr age bins . </S>",
    "<S> all studied galaxies undergo a phase of merging activity at high redshift , so that stars older than 9 gyr are found in a centrally concentrated component , while younger stars are mostly found in discs . </S>",
    "<S> we find that most maps have simple exponential radial and vertical density profiles , with a scale - height that typically increases with age . </S>",
    "<S> because a large range of merger histories can create populations with simple structures , this suggests that the simplicity of the structure of mono - abundance populations observed in the milky way by @xcite is not necessarily a direct indicator of a quiescent history for the milky way . </S>",
    "<S> similarly , the anti - correlation between scale - length and scale - height does not necessarily imply a merger - free history . </S>",
    "<S> however , mergers produce discontinuities between thin and thick disc components , and jumps in the age - velocity relation . </S>",
    "<S> the absence of a structural discontinuity between thin and thick disc observed in the milky way would seem to be a good indicator that no merger with a mass ratio larger than 1:151:10 occurred in the last 9 gyr . </S>",
    "<S> mergers at higher redshift might nevertheless be necessary to produce the thickest , hottest components of the milky way s disc .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : formation - galaxies : structure - galaxies : kinematics and dynamics - methods : numerical </S>"
  ]
}