{
  "article_text": [
    "recent discoveries of stars exhibiting the telltale signs of planet transits has begun to add a new layer of understanding to the rapidly developing field of comparative exoplanetology .",
    "the detected transit events have served to define the specific nature of those planets , including parameters such as density , atmospheric composition , and aspects of system dynamics ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* burrows et al .",
    "2006 ) ) .",
    "advances in the state of the art in astronomical optical interferometry can be directed at these recent transit discoveries and also contribute to telling the exoplanet story .",
    "specifically , interferometric observations during a planet transit event can determine the inclination and orientation of the planetary orbit upon the sky , in addition to refining the angular diameter measurements of both the planet and the star .",
    "just as the rossiter - mclaughlin effect ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* rossiter 1924 , mclaughlin 1924 ) ) in radial velocity measurements can contribute to our knowledge of transiting planet system parameters ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* winn et al . 2006 ) ) , transit event interferometry can further the physical description of these systems , including measurements of the transiting planet s orbital plane orientation upon the sky .",
    "these observations also uniquely determine the other observables of the system - impact parameter , transit velocity , stellar radius , planet radius , transit ingress time - without the need for supporting observations such as transit photometry .",
    "for example , the previous direct determination of hd189733b s diameter ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* baines et al .",
    "2007 ) ) measured that parameter through a combination of interferometric measurements and transit photometry ; this technique is independent of such outside measurements . a detailed evaluation of interferometric transit observations can be found in @xcite .",
    "two instruments are currently available for attempting observations of exoplanet transits : the michigan infrared combiner ( mirc ) on the center for high angular resolution astronomy ( chara ) array and the visible imaging system for interferometric observations at npoi ( vision ) instrument on the navy precision optical interferometer ( npoi ) .",
    "mirc , provided to the chara array by the university of michigan , has a capability to combine 6 telescopes at h & k and provides 10 simultaneous closure phase measurements on sources , representing a major step forward in capability for the facility .",
    "the 6-way visible - light tennessee state university vision instrument ( ( * ? ? ? * ghasempour et al .",
    "2012 ) ) was recently deployed on npoi , which is operated by science partners lowell observatory , the united states naval observatory ( usno ) , and the naval research laboratory ( nrl ) .",
    "vision saw first light in september 2012 , and its on - sky performance is still being evaluated ; however , given vision is largely a visible light analog of the near - infrared mirc , the anticipation is that the performance should follow mirc s impressive closure phase precisions .",
    "the obvious candidates for observations of a planet transit event are 55 cnc ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* mcarthur et al . 2004 ) ) and hd189733 ( ) . with angular sizes of @xmath0 and @xmath1 @xmath2as , respectively ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* von braun et al .",
    "2007 , baines et al . 2007 ) ) , they are the planet - transit hosting stars with the largest angular sizes discovered to date . the notional geometry of the hd189733 transit is depicted in the upper row of figure [ fig_hd189733cp ] .",
    "the next best candidate known at the time of this draft is gj 436 , with roughly the same anticipated angular size as hd189733 .",
    "hd149026 , hd17156 , and hd209458 are also worth considering , although their stellar angular diameters of 170 - 250 @xmath2as are significantly less favorable for detection when considering the maximum baselines of chara - mirc ( 3@xmath3330 m ) and currently available baselines ( @xmath4 m ) for npoi - vision .",
    "( the npoi facility has infrastructure out to 430 m , which is underoing commissioing and should enable routine observations of stars with diameters down to @xmath580@xmath2as . )",
    "the use of the closure phase observable effectively cancels many of the corrupting effects of the atmosphere and the instrument , and is a highly sensitive probe for interferometric image construction on the smallest spatial scales .",
    "a significantly more complete discussion of the topic of closure phase may be found in @xcite .",
    "closure phases are very sensitive to asymmetries in images , which will prove quite useful in the application discussed here . for a star with a planet blocking out part of its disk during a transit event",
    ", the degree of asymmetry is extreme - such a transiting planet is , in essence , a ` perfectly black ' star spot .",
    "the full envelope of expected visibility amplitudes and closure phases for a _ gedanken _ experiment covering the interferometer response can be computed for a a planet transit event . for the specific case of hd189733 , such an experiment using a notional chara e1-s1-w1 configuration",
    "may easily be executed , and is discussed in detail in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* van belle ( 2008 ) ) , leading to an expectation of the changes in observed visibility amplitudes and closure phases during the planet transit event ( figure [ fig_hd189733cp ] ) .    during the transit event ,",
    "the visibility deviates from from the nominal unocculted star case , but by only a marginal amount - on the order of @xmath6 , which is beyond the capabilities of any existing interferometer by @xmath5two orders of magnitude .",
    "however , the closure phase excursion is @xmath7 ; as detailed in @xcite and @xcite , closure phase measurements at this level of precision appear possible .",
    "tests of the chara - mirc system showed laboratory closure phase formal error at the @xmath8 level over the course of 3 hours .",
    "shorter integration times indicated a correspondingly higher level of scatter , but the magnitude of this error gives a starting point from which to evaluate the possibility for observation of a planet transit event using closure phases .",
    "with a crude level of closure phase error ( @xmath9 ) , the position angle of the transit event is readily recovered to within a few degrees , and markedly better with modest improvements in closure phase error .",
    "since closure phase is , in essence , an observable that quantifies the degree of asymmetry in an image upon the sky , we expect that this technique should work well even for grazing transit events .",
    "of particular interest is the fact that , in the best conceivable case for each apparent transit position angle , the planet radius appears to be recoverable to the level of roughly one part in 30 - 40 , which appears to beat the previous interferometric measure of the planetary diameter ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* baines et al .",
    "2007 ) ) by a factor of 2.5@xmath3 .",
    "this approach is the best currently available technique that provide any value for the transit event orientation angle ; it is also an independent check on parameters such as stellar radius or planet - star radius ratio that is derived from other techniques , such as spectroscopy or photometric timing .",
    "finally , it is worth noting that an interesting test of this approach would be stellar disk imaging during occultations by ( local ) asteroids .",
    "such events are rare for specific objects , but an ensemble search of the @xmath10400,000 known asteroids paths intersecting the positions of the @xmath1010,000 stars bright enough for chara - mirc and npoi - vision presents a list of a few dozen events annually .",
    "the key limitation for these events is the duration , which is not measured in hours ( eg . exoplanet transits ) but in minutes and seconds .",
    "armstrong , j.  t. , mozurkewich , d. , rickard , l.  j. , et al .",
    "1998 , apj , 496 , 550 baines , e.  k. , van belle , g.  t. , ten brummelaar , t.  a. , mcalister , h.  a. , swain , m. , turner , n.  h. , sturmann , l. , & sturmann , j.  2007 , apjl , 661 , l195 bakos , g.   . , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 650 , 1160 bouchy , f. , et al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 444 , l15 burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. , & hubeny , i.  2006 , apj , 650 , 1140 ghasempour , a. , muterspaugh , m. , hutter , d. , et al .  2012",
    ", american astronomical society meeting abstracts # 219 , 219 , # 446.13 mcarthur , b.  e. , endl , m. , cochran , w.  d. , et al .",
    "2004 , apjl , 614 , l81 monnier , j.  d. , et al .  2006a , proc .",
    "spie , 6268 monnier , j.  d. , et al .",
    "2007 , science , 317 , 342 monnier , j.  d.  2007 , new astronomy review , 51 , 604 van belle , g.  t.  2008 , pasp , 120 , 617 von braun , k. , boyajian , t.  s. , ten brummelaar , t.  a. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 740 , 49 zhao , m. , monnier , j.  d. , che , x. , et al .",
    "2011 , pasp , 123 , 964"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> exoplanet transit events are attractive targets for the ultrahigh - resolution capabilities afforded by optical interferometers . </S>",
    "<S> the intersection of two developments in astronomy enable direct imaging of exoplanet transits : first , improvements in sensitivity and precision of interferometric instrumentation ; and second , identification of ever - brighter host stars . </S>",
    "<S> efforts are underway for the first direct high - precision detection of closure phase signatures with the chara array and navy precision optical interferometer . </S>",
    "<S> when successful , these measurements will enable recovery of the transit position angle on the sky , along with characterization of other system parameters , such as stellar radius , planet radius , and other parameters of the transit event . </S>",
    "<S> this technique can directly determine the planet s radius independent of any outside observations , and appears able to improve substantially upon other determinations of that radius ; it will be possible to extract wavelength dependence of that radius determination , for connection to characterization of planetary atmospheric composition & structure . </S>",
    "<S> additional directly observed parameters - also not dependent on transit photometry or spectroscopy - include impact parameter , transit ingress time , and transit velocity . </S>"
  ]
}