{
  "article_text": [
    "gravitational lensing is a powerful tool ; acting as a natural telescope it can potentially allow astronomical observations to reach smaller and fainter objects than would otherwise be observable ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "in addition to producing multiple images the source is significantly magnified ; typically by a factor of @xmath010 ( e.g.@xcite ) .",
    "strong lenses have been used , for example , to investigate the density profile of lensing galaxies ( e.g.@xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , the evolution of galaxies ( e.g.@xcite ; @xcite ) and cosmological parameters ( e.g.@xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the redshift range @xmath1 is a crucial period in the evolution of galaxies when today - observed galaxies formed the majority of their stars .",
    "studies have shown that star formation generally occurred in galaxies with irregular and multicomponent morphologies ( e.g.@xcite ) .",
    "modern models of galaxy evolution produce relations between the fundamental physical properties of galaxies ( i.e.size , mass , luminosity ) .",
    "our homogeneous sample with similar photometric properties and redshifts allows us to explore these relations for blue , star - forming , high - redshift galaxies . at the same time",
    ", we are able to explore the properties of deflectors - early type galaxies at redshifts @xmath2 probing the relative alignment of mass and light in flattening and orientation . in this paper",
    "we explore in detail lens and source properties of lensing systems selected from the cassowary catalogue for which we obtained reliable models .",
    "we also study and show the advantages and limitations of the available imaging data .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    "we introduce our cassowary sample and present selection method , then describe the lens modelling in section 3 . in section 4",
    "we discuss results of the modelling and lens and source properties .",
    "we discuss the results and conclude in section 5 .    throughout this paper",
    "we assume a flat @xmath3-cold - dark - matter ( @xmath3cdm ) cosmological model of the universe with parameters @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 , @xmath7 as favoured by the seven year wilkinson microwave anisotropy probe ( wmap ) results ( @xcite ) .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab : aaa ]    we make an attempt to model 9 cassowary systems with singular isothermal ellipsoid lens models fitted to the sdss data .",
    "three of them were previously described in the literature and we used them to estimate the goodness of our fits : cswa 1 , 6 , 21 ( note that not all parameters are available ) . after the comparison of already published and re - modelled systems we also show 6 modelled systems , not yet presented in the literature . for the whole sample of 9 systems we present lens and source properties . in these cases",
    "the quality of the sdss data did not allow us to model the lens systems robustly .",
    "the rejected systems were those where we could not robustly identify a counter image .",
    "the fitted parameters , the lens and source photometry ( with 68 per cent confidence level range ) and the noise parameters are listed in tables [ tab : param1 ] , [ tab : param2 ] and [ tab : aaa ] .",
    "the source redshift , necessary for source properties studies , was known for eight of 9 systems from the selected sample .",
    "the models of the 9 systems analysed in this study are shown in figures [ fig : model]-[fig : model2 ] .",
    "we plot the original data from the sdss , the best fitting model , the residuals and the associated source plane light distribution . in fig .",
    "[ fig : corr ] we present the 2d projection of the likelihood in 29d - space of the fitted parameters ( we only show 13 of the most important parameters ) for one of the analysed systems ( cswa  21 ) .",
    "we use colour - coding based on @xmath8 confidence regions defined for each pixel on 2d plane as @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the maximum value of the likelihood on the plane and @xmath11 is the value of the likelihood in a given pixel .",
    "diagonal panels show the likelihood distributions of each of the parameters marginalized over all other dimensions .",
    "a couple of lens systems from our sample were previously modelled using imaging with higher resolution than sdss .",
    "this gives us an opportunity to test our models obtained from lower quality data .",
    "we can claim that the re - modelling of a few systems ( cswa 1 , 6 , 21 ) was carried out successfully . here",
    "we present details on these re - modelled systems for comparison with the previous models .",
    "the difference between our and literature values of the einstein radius in these systems is negligible , confirming the goodness of our fits .",
    "we also describe in detail a few most interesting and well modelled systems in our new sample .",
    "this system was discovered in the sdss data release 5 by @xcite .",
    "this is an almost complete ( @xmath12 ) einstein ring 10 arcseconds in diameter .",
    "the deflecting galaxy is at redshift 0.444 while the source is a star - forming galaxy at redshift 2.379 . using the follow - up images from the 2.5 m isaac newton telescope",
    "a few lens models were found with the most probable model - the power law with a volume mass density @xmath13 and an axis ratio of @xmath14 ( @xcite ) .",
    "for the sie model with external shear the einstein radius is @xmath15 and the axis ratio @xmath16    with our data quality there was no possibility to fit a reliable lens model with free power - law index .",
    "nevertheless , our axis ratio and ring diameter obtained from the sie model agree with the previous study ( @xmath17 within the range of 1@xmath8 and @xmath18 within the range of 2@xmath8 ) .",
    "the modelling of the lens light profile is satisfactory , comparing to previous studies .",
    "we note that it is probably not the best approximation to describe the source with a single srsic profile , hence , comparing to the previous results , our magnification value is probably somewhat underestimated .",
    "the system comprises a bright arc and one counter - image at redshift @xmath19 ( @xcite ) .",
    "this star - forming galaxy is strongly lensed by a foreground @xmath20 luminous red galaxy .",
    "this system was found in the sdss dr5 and was followed up with subaru 8.2 m telescope and 3.5 m telescope at apache point observatory . a simple lens model for the system , assuming a singular isothermal ellipsoid mass distribution , yields an einstein radius of @xmath21 .",
    "additional observations from subaru telescope showed that the central lensing galaxy is accompanied by two smaller galaxies .",
    "the magnification is estimated at @xmath22 .",
    "our modelling recovered the known parameters of this lens only partially .",
    "the magnification is likely to be underestimated but we obtained the einstein radius in agreement within @xmath23 ( @xmath24 ) .",
    "it seems that the new model is more elliptical ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "we should note that the probability histogram of parameter @xmath26 shows the possibility of the existence of two different axis ratio values with almost the same likelihood .",
    "the lens light profile parameters are within the range of 3@xmath8 to values found in the previous studies , probably due to the oversimplification of the fitted mass profile .",
    "there was no possibility of modelling the parameters of neighbouring galaxies .",
    "the system consists of 4 lenses ( @xcite ) which we could not distinguish in our images .",
    "this lens system has been studied in detail by @xcite .",
    "the system contains a lyman break galaxy ( lbg ) at redshift @xmath27 ( confirmed by additional spectroscopic observations ) strongly lensed by a luminous red galaxy ( @xmath28 ) .",
    "the arc was first identified in the sdss dr4 and later observed by 3.5 m telescope at apache point observatory .    using only the sdss data we obtained results in good agreement with @xcite . a simple sie + external shear model yields a good fit .",
    "@xcite estimated the einstein radius of @xmath29 and the axis ratio of @xmath30 .",
    "the magnification of the system is evaluated at @xmath31 .",
    "our estimate for @xmath32 is in agreement within 2@xmath8 and the axis ratio fits even better ( @xmath33 , @xmath34 ) .",
    "the magnification is also in a good agreement within 1@xmath8 .",
    "the distribution of srsic indices for the lens and the source , @xmath35 and @xmath36 , is not symmetric ( see the fig .  [",
    "fig : corr ] ) and in both light models tends to the assumed limit of fitted parameter ( @xmath37 and @xmath38 , respectively ) .",
    "the lens srsic index is noticeably degenerated with the effective radius in the lens light profile . from fig .",
    "[ fig : corr ] , we also notice a slight degeneracy between the ellipticity in the mass profile and external shear .",
    "this is a common issue in strong lens modelling .          in this system",
    "we notice an extreme value of external shear ( @xmath39 ) , although the mass profile perfectly follows the light profile .",
    "the closer look to the system environment shows the group of objects which can be responsible for external shear .",
    "however , we assume the contribution of those objects to the lensing is accurately taken into account through the shear .",
    "the system contains four blue images with a central lens galaxy ( l1 ) at redshift @xmath40 .",
    "the source redshift is unknown .",
    "after a first attempt to model this system with one sie lens we obtained a strongly flattened lens and high value of shear .",
    "the position angles of lens and shear pointed towards another galaxy at photometric redshift near to the main lens redshift .",
    "we therefore considered the two lens system with the second lens ( l2 ) situated at @xmath41 at a distance of about 9 arcsec from the main lens .",
    "the photometric redshift of the second lens , @xmath42 , allows us to use a single lens plane .",
    "the mass model of the second lens galaxy is also assumed as sie . in the binary lens model",
    "the axis ratio for the main lens increased , but the shear contribution decreased significantly , indicating minimal influence from the further galaxies .",
    "we obtain two - lens - model with close einstein radii ( @xmath43 for the primary lens and @xmath44 for the second lens ) .",
    "for the primary lens the mass profile is not tied to the light distribution ( comparing @xmath45 and @xmath46 ) what should not be unexpected in the binary lens systems .",
    "figure [ fig : hist_qsie ] shows the normalized histogram of sie axis ratios with comparison to the sloan giant arcs survey ( sgas ) sample presented in @xcite and the sloan lens acs ( slacs ) sample from @xcite .",
    "our sample shows similar axis ratios to both samples used to compare .",
    "which is consistent with @xcite and @xcite . ]",
    "figure [ fig : qsie_qlight ] compares the ellipticity of the mass model to that of the stellar component of the lens . for the vast majority of systems",
    "the lens mass ellipticity is slightly larger than the light ellipticity distribution .",
    "previous studies showed that the relation between light and mass ellipticity should be linear .",
    "@xcite showed for the slacs sample that @xmath47 , however @xcite presented for the sl2s sample significant more dispersion @xmath48 . nevertheless , for the cassowary sample we found @xmath49 that is not significantly different from the earlier results .",
    "we also find that the position angles of the mass and light are well aligned ( fig .",
    "[ fig : papa ] ) .",
    "the assumption of isothermality may introduce major systematic shifts in lens parameters .",
    "hence , we checked the correlation between the einstein radius , the axis ratio , the external shear and the power - law index by re - modelling the systems with power - law profiles .",
    "we use a few fixed values of the power - law index , as the quality of the sdss data does not enable us to model the full free power - law profile . in table",
    "[ tab : pl ] in the appendix we present the profile parameters obtained for several power - law indices .",
    "we find a strong degeneracy between the power - law index and the lens mass axis ratio only in profiles of systems : cswa 6 and 21 .",
    "hence , in these system the power - law profile should be used to obtain the most proper model . in other systems",
    "we observe a degeneracy of the power - law index with the value of the external shear .    in most cases",
    "we notice the degeneracy between srsic index and effective radius which was expected and considered by e.g.@xcite .",
    "the srsic profile is specified by two parameters : index and effective radius and we obtained these parameters strongly correlated in almost all fitted profiles ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : corr ] ) .",
    "our source sample is a set of galaxies at redshifts between 1.5 and 3.0 ( table [ tab : cswasample ] ) .",
    "finally , we explore the size - stellar mass plane ( fig .",
    "[ fig : mass_reff ] ) and size - luminosity plane ( fig .",
    "[ fig : evolution ] ) .",
    "the stellar masses ( @xmath50 ) have been computed using the spectral energy distributions ( sed ) converted to a chabrier imf normalization and we find that they span a range of stellar masses typical of star - forming galaxies at these redshifts ( @xcite ) .",
    "we also plot a size - mass relation for low redshift galaxies obtained by @xcite .",
    "it is clearly not possible to obtain a reliable parametrized stellar mass - radius relation due to the very low sample size and large uncertainties in the mass profiles .",
    "the uncertainties in source masses are caused by using low resolution data and indirect fitting of source light profile .",
    "however , we can confirm that the extended sample from low resolution data will be useful in similar studies .    for comparison",
    "we use the hubble ultra deep field ( hudf ) catalogue with high - redshift galaxies between z @xmath0 1.5 and 3.0 ( @xcite ) . from size - luminosity plane ( fig .",
    "[ fig : lum_reff ] ) we can conclude that our cswa sample complements the hudf catalogue at redshifts 1.5 - 3.0 with brighter galaxies with luminosities between -22.0 and -24.5 mag ( in the @xmath51 band ) .",
    "we investigate the evolution of the size - luminosity relation in a function of redshift based on the slacs and cswa source galaxies and the sdss local galaxies .",
    "the slacs sample represents galaxies at redshifts range [ 0.4,1.2 ] with multiple nebular emission lines ( @xcite ) .",
    "we assumed the size - luminosity relation for local galaxies from @xcite : @xmath52 .",
    "for a combined sample of slacs and cswa source galaxies we fit this relation for different redshifts and find : @xmath53 in the top panel of figure [ fig : evolution ] we present the size - luminosity plane with the slacs and cswa source samples .",
    "we also plot the size - luminosity relation for various redshifts , including @xmath54 representing local galaxies . in the bottom panel",
    "we plot residuals between the observed effective radius of source galaxies and the predicted radius from the size - luminosity relation .",
    "we are not able to decide whether the pure - size evolution or pure - luminosity evolution plays a key role in the observed evolution .",
    "although we can assume that the cswa sources are the progenitors of the slacs sources as similarly the slacs sources are matched to the local sdss galaxies population .",
    "hence , we likely observe the passive evolution of disc galaxies and the decline of star formation rate .",
    "we caution the reader as the observational bias is probably one of the most important restriction here ; we can not exclude the influence of selection bias in the sdss data search for lens systems .",
    "the observed sources in the cswa sample are brighter and larger ( for example compared to the hudf sample in the same redshift range ) maybe only due to the sdss thresholds .",
    "in this paper we have presented gravitational lens models of 9 galaxy - scale lenses identified in the cassowary catalogue . for our modelling",
    "we only used the original multi - band sdss data , hence we are able to explore the homogeneous sample of galaxy - galaxy lensing systems .",
    "we used the srsic profile to constrain the surface brightness model of the lenses and sources and the sie profile to obtain the lens mass model . for each system we derived the einstein radius , axis ratio , and positional angle of the mass distribution .",
    "we also obtained surface brightness parameters ( effective radius , axis ratio , positional angle , and srsic index ) for both lens and source light distributions .",
    "the homogeneous sample allowed us to investigate the properties of the lenses and sources .",
    "we found that in the vast majority of our systems the lens mass follows the lens light and the alignment between the lens mass and lens light axis ratios is good .",
    "however , in a few cases the assumed isothermality for the mass profile may be insufficient . in systems",
    "cswa 6 and 21 we noticed a strong degeneracy between the power - law index and the lens axis ratio .    by exploiting the gravitational lensing effect we were able to determine sizes , stellar masses , and luminosities of a sample of faint galaxies",
    "the studied redshift range is crucial for understanding of galaxy evolution processes .",
    "hence , we have been interested in exploring mass to radius and luminosity to radius relationships .",
    "we obtained robust results which are encouraging for further use of low - resolution data .",
    "however , we were not able to determine the galaxy type from srsic profile indices due to large uncertainties .",
    "our sample probably contains mostly irregular galaxies and this is the reason that the srsic indices are not reasonable in half of the studied cases .",
    "the source could have a more complicated structure which can not be described well by a single model .",
    "for instance , @xcite showed that star - forming galaxy profiles at redshifts range 1.5 - 3.0 should be possible to model simultaneously with at least few srsic profiles . on the other hand",
    ", we notice that the cswa sample complements the high - redshift hudf catalogue with bright galaxies and also the cswa sample extends the slacs sample for higher redshift lensed galaxies .",
    "we presented evolution of the size - luminosity relation for star - forming galaxies as a function of redshift .",
    "the relation was fitted using both samples - the cswa and slacs galaxies .",
    "we assume that the cswa sources are the progenitors of the slacs sources , whereas the slacs source are progenitors of the local sdss galaxies .",
    "in general , our results showed that we are still able to recover lens and source parameters even when using only the low - resolution images from the sdss survey .",
    "however , we caution the reader as to necessity of careful selection of modelled systems with the presence of the counter image being the most important criterion .",
    "we thank jan skowron for fruitful discussion about figure [ fig : corr ] .",
    "zkr was supported by the polish national science centre under grant dec-2011/01/n / st9/03069 .",
    "vb acknowledges financial support from the royal society .",
    "h. et  al . , 2011 ,",
    "apjs , 193 , 29    s.  s. , tucker d.  l. , lin h. , diehl h.  t. , annis j. , buckley - geer e.  j. , frieman j.  a. , 2007 , apjl , 662 , l51    m.  w. , budzynski j.  m. , belokurov v. , koposov s.  e. , mccarthy i.  g. , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 503    m.  w. , treu t. , brewer b.  j. , marshall p.  j. , 2011 , mnras , 411 , l6    m.  w. , treu t. , gavazzi r. , bolton a.  s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , marshall p.  j. , 2010 , apjl , 721 , l163    k. , crampton d. , peng c. , simard l. , 2013 , apj , 777 , 1    v. , evans n.  w. , hewett p.  c. , moiseev a. , mcmahon r.  g. , sanchez s.  f. , king l.  j. , 2009 , mnras , 392 , 104    v. et  al",
    ". , 2007 , apj , 671 , l9",
    "a.  s. et  al . , 2012 , apj , 757 , 82    a.  s. , burles s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , treu t. , gavazzi r. , moustakas l.  a. , wayth r. , schlegel d.  j. , 2008 , apj , 682 , 964    a.  s. , burles s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , treu t. , moustakas l.  a. , 2006 , apj , 638 , 703    d. , bentez n. , snchez s.  f. , jee m. , bouwens r. , ford h. , 2006 , aj , 132 , 926    t.  e. , auger m.  w. , belokurov v. , marshall p.  j. , hall a.  c. , 2012 , mnras , 424 , 2864    s. , evans n.  w. , belokurov v. , warren s.  j. , hewett p. , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , 388 , 384    r. , treu t. , marshall p.  j. , brault f. , ruff a. , 2012 , apj , 761 , 170    e. et  al . , 2011 , apjs , 192 , 18    l.  v.  e. , treu t. , bolton a.  s. , burles s. , moustakas l.  a. , 2006 , apj , 649 , 599    r. , schneider p. , bartelmann m. , 1994 , a&a , 284 , 285    d.  r. , steidel c.  c. , shapley a.  e. , nagy s.  r. , reddy n.  a. , erb d.  k. , 2012 , apj , 745 , 85    h. et  al . , 2009 , apj , 699 , 1242    e.  r. , marshall p.  j. , treu t. , auger m.  w. , gavazzi r. , bolton a.  s. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , moustakas l.  a. , 2011 , apj , 734 , 104    m. , bayliss m.  b. , dahle h. , sharon k. , gladders m.  d. , natarajan p. , hennawi j.  f. , koester b.  p. , 2012 ,",
    "mnras , 420 , 3213    a.  j. , gavazzi r. , marshall p.  j. , treu t. , auger m.  w. , brault f. , 2011 , apj , 727 , 96    d. , kochanek c.  s. , 2005 , apj , 623 , 666    p. , 2006",
    ", in saas - fee advanced course 33 : gravitational lensing : strong , weak and micro .",
    "pp 189    p. , ehlers j. , falco e.  e. , 1992 , gravitational lenses .",
    "verlag    s. , mo h.  j. , white s.  d.  m. , blanton m.  r. , kauffmann g. , voges w. , brinkmann j. , csabai i. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 978    d.  p. et  al .",
    ", 2013 , mnras , 436 , 1040    s.  h. et  al . , 2013 ,",
    "apj , 766 , 70    s.  h. et  al . , 2012 ,",
    "apj , 750 , 10    t. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2004 , apj , 611 , 739    s. , czoske o. , koopmans l.  v.  e. , 2010 , mnras , 407 , 225",
    "here we presented the results of re - modelling systems with power - law profiles .",
    "we test the models using only a few fixed values of power - law index from range @xmath55 $ ] . in table",
    "[ tab : pl ] we show for each system from the cassowary sample used power - law index and obtained : the einstein radius @xmath32 , the axis ratio @xmath26 and the position angle @xmath56 in the lens mass profile , the value of external shear @xmath57 and the position angle of shear @xmath58 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we explore the properties of lensing galaxies and lensed faint sources at redshifts between 1.5 and 3.0 . </S>",
    "<S> our sample consists of 9 carefully selected strongly - lensed galaxies discovered by the cassowary survey in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) data . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , despite some limitations of the original sdss data , the homogeneous sample of lensing systems can provide a useful insight into lens and source properties . </S>",
    "<S> we also explore the limitations of using low - resolution data to model and analyse galaxy - galaxy lensing . </S>",
    "<S> we derive the relative alignment of mass and light in fitted lens profiles . </S>",
    "<S> the range of magnification extends above 5 , hence we are able to analyse potentially small and low - mass galaxies at high redshifts . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm the likely evolution of the size - luminosity relation for blue star - forming galaxies as a function of redshift .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gravitational lensing : strong , galaxies : fundamental parameters , evolution </S>"
  ]
}