{
  "article_text": [
    "there is strong evidence that most galaxies harbor supermassive black holes ( smbhs ) with mass @xmath4 at their centers @xcite .",
    "hitherto , smbhs have been found in 87 galaxies by observing the proper motion of stars bound by the smbhs or by detecting radiation emitted from gas pulled gravitationally by the smbhs @xcite .",
    "@xmath5 maser emission from active galactic nuclei ( agns ) in spiral galaxies provides a strong tool to measure smbh masses , because it shows a rotating disk on a subparsec scale with a nearly keplerian velocity distribution around the smbh .",
    "those disks , so - called maser disks , have been observed at the centers of ngc4258 @xcite , ngc1068 @xcite ,",
    "ngc3079 @xcite , the circinus galaxy @xcite , ugc3789 @xcite , ngc6323 @xcite , ngc2273 , ngc6264 , and some more objects @xcite .",
    "several maser disks show warped structure at the radii of the order of @xmath0 @xcite . from an observational point of view",
    ", maser spots on the disk in ngc  4258 are spatially distributed along a line on each side of a central black hole .",
    "the smbh is then thought to be located at the center of a line connecting those two lines by a simple extrapolation , and the disk starts to warp at the innermost maser spot .",
    "what mechanism makes the disk warped still remains an open question .",
    "several promising theoretical ideas have been proposed for explaining disk warping .",
    "@xcite showed that centrally illuminated accretion disks are unstable to warping due to the reaction force of reradiated radiation .",
    "such a radiation - driven warping mechanism has also been applied to explain the disk warping in the context of x - ray binaries @xcite . if angular momentum vector of an accretion disk around a spinning black hole is misaligned with the spin axis , differential lense - thirring torque due to the frame - dragging effect",
    "aligns the inner part of the disk with the black - hole equatorial plane .",
    "since the outer part of the disk retains its initial orientation , the resultant disk is warped @xcite .",
    "this bardeen - petterson effect is also considered to be a plausible mechanism for disk warping in maser disks @xcite .",
    "moreover , @xcite proposed that the warped disk at the center of ngc 4258 is caused by the process of resonant relaxation , which is a rapid relaxation mechanism to exchange angular momentum between the disk and the stars moving under the nearly spherical potential dominated by the smbh .",
    "these mechanisms have been discussed based on the assumption that the central object surrounded by the warped maser disk is a single smbh .",
    "the tight correlation between the mass of smbhs and the mass or luminosity of the bulge of their host galaxies strongly support the idea that smbhs have grown with the growth of their host galaxies ( @xcite ; see also @xcite for a review ) .",
    "this relationship suggests that each smbh at the center of each galaxy should have evolved toward coalescence in a merged galaxy .",
    "if this is the case , a binary of smbhs on a subparsec scale or less should be formed in a merged galactic nucleus before two black holes finally coalesce , yet no binary smbhs have clearly been identified so far despite some claims ( see @xcite for reviews and references therein ) .    in the standard scenario of evolution of merging black holes @xcite , it is still unclear what mechanism efficiently extracts the orbital angular momentum of binary smbhs on subparsec scales within a hubble time .",
    "once the binary orbit decays down to sub - milliparsec radii , the binary rapidly coalesces by gravitational wave emission ( e.g. , @xcite ) . therefore ,",
    "binary smbhs on sub - parsec to sub - milliparsec scales are a \" missing link  in the merger history of smbhs .",
    "since the size of warped maser disks is identified to be of the order of @xmath0 , the binary separation should be smaller than this scale if the central object of warped maser disks is binary smbhs . in oder to understand evolution of binary smbhs , it is thus important to study a possible link between the presence of binary smbhs and the warping of maser disks .    in this paper",
    ", we discuss the possibility that the central objects of warped maser disks are a potential candidate for binary smbhs with a @xmath6 . in section  [ sec:2 ]",
    ", we describe the external torques acting on a circumbinary disk .",
    "we consider both the tidal torques originating from a binary potential and the radiative torques due to radiation emitted from two inner circum - black - hole disks ( accretion disks ) . in section  [ sec:3 ] , we study the evolution of a slightly tilted circumbinary disk subject to those two torques . in section  [ sec:4 ]",
    ", we apply our model to observed warped maser disks in agns and then estimate the semi - major axis of binary smbhs .",
    "finally , section  [ sec:5 ] is devoted to summary and discussion of our scenario .",
    "let us consider the torques from the binary potential acting on the circumbinary disk surrounding the binary on a circular orbit .",
    "figure  [ fig : schmatic ] illustrates a schematic picture of our model ; binary black holes orbiting each other are surrounded by a misaligned circumbinary disk .",
    "the binary is put on the @xmath7-@xmath8 plane with its center of mass being at the origin in the cartesian coordinate .",
    "the masses of the primary and secondary black holes are represented by @xmath9 and @xmath10 , respectively , and @xmath11 .",
    "we put a circumbinary disk around the origin .",
    "the unit vector of specific angular momentum of the circumbinary disk is expressed by ( e.g. @xcite ) @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the tilt angle between the circumbinary disk plane and the binary orbital plane , and @xmath14 is the azimuth of tilt . here ,",
    "@xmath15 , @xmath16 , and @xmath17 are unit vectors in the @xmath7 , @xmath8 , and @xmath18 , respectively",
    ". the position vector of the circumbinary disk can be expressed by @xmath19 where the azimuthal angle @xmath20 is measured from the descending node .",
    "the position vector of each black hole is given by @xmath21 where @xmath22 with @xmath23 and @xmath24 .",
    "here , @xmath25 is the binary mass ratio and @xmath26 is the semi - major axis of the binary . these and other model parameters are listed in table  1 .",
    ".model parameters [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tbl : t2 ]",
    "we have investigated the instability of a warping mode in a geometrically thin , non - self - gravitating circumbinary disk induced by radiative torques originated from two accretion disks around interior black holes . here , the two accretion disks are regarded as point irradiation sources for simplicity .",
    "we have derived the condition where the circumbinary disk is unstable to the warping mode induced by the radiative torques and the timescales of precession caused by both tidal and radiative torques for a small tilt angle ( @xmath27 ) .",
    "our main conclusions other than this instability condition are summarized as follows :    1 .   for @xmath28 ,",
    "the growth timescale of the warping mode in the binary smbh case is reduced to that of the single smbh case .",
    "the marginally stable warping radius substantially depends on both the ratio of the vertical to horizontal shear viscosities @xmath29 and the mass - to - energy conversion efficiency @xmath30 .",
    "the marginally stable warping radius in the binary smbh case is reduced to that of the single smbh case for @xmath31 .",
    "3 .   for a small tilt angle ( @xmath27 ) ,",
    "the tidal torques due to the binary potential give no contribution to the growth of warping modes on the circumbinary disk .",
    "4 .   there is a clear difference in the warping radius between the single smbh case and the binary smbhs case . since the tidal torques work on the circumbinary disk so as to align the circumbinary disk plane with the binary orbital plane",
    ", they can suppress finite - amplitude warping modes induced by the radiative torques .",
    "the circumbinary disk , therefore , starts to be warped at the tidal alignment radius where the growth timescale of the radiation - driven warping of the circumbinary disk is equal to the timescale for which the disk is aligned with the orbital plane by the tidal torques , if the tidal alignment radius is larger than the marginally stable warping radius .",
    "in contrast , the accretion disk around a single smbh starts to be warped at the marginally stable warping radius .",
    "if the circumbinary disk is warped by radiative torques due to radiation emitted from two accretion disks around the black holes , the binary smbhs with masses of @xmath3 are likely to have a binary separation on @xmath1 to @xmath2 scales .",
    "the circumbinary disk can precess due to both tidal torques and radiative torques . while the radiative torques tend to precess the circumbinary disk in the prograde direction , the tidal torques tend to precess it in the retrograde direction .",
    "since the former precession frequency is much lower than the latter precession frequency , the circumbinary disk slowly precesses in the retrograde direction .",
    "the precession timescale is much longer than the orbital period .",
    "therefore , it is unlikely that the periodic light variation due to the warped precession could be detected .    in this paper , we have studied warping of circumbinary disks where disk self - gravity is negligible .",
    "a few warped maser disks are , however , thought to be massive to be comparable to the black hole mass ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the self - gravitating force in such a massive disk makes the velocity profile deviate significantly from the keplerian one .",
    "in addition , the dominant origin of both the horizontal and vertical shear viscosities , on which the condition of the radiation - driven warping is sensitive , is the self - gravitating instability of the disk .",
    "however , little is known about how the self - gravitating force affects disk warping in a geometrically thin , self - gravitating circumbinary disk consistent with the maser disk observations .",
    "further observational and theoretical studies are necessary .    we have assumed that the binary is on a circular orbit",
    ". there are , however , theoretical indication that the orbital eccentricity increases by the interaction between binary smbhs and their circumbinary disks @xcite . in the ideally efficient binary - disk interaction case ,",
    "the orbital eccentricity is driven up to @xmath32 .",
    "this is because the binary orbital angular momentum is mainly transferred to the circumbinary disk when the binary is at the apastron .",
    "the saturation value of the orbital eccentricity is estimated by equating the angular frequency at the inner radius of the circumbinary disk with the binary orbital frequency at the apastron @xcite .",
    "in addition , more enhanced periodic light variations are expected in eccentric binary smbhs by interaction with the circumbinary disk @xcite than in the circular binary case @xcite .",
    "such periodic light curves provide an independent tool to evaluate whether the central object of the warped maser disk is binary smbhs or a single smbh .",
    "we will examine the effect of the orbital eccentricity on the radiation - driven warping of the circumbinary disk in a subsequent paper .",
    "for simplicity , we have also assumed that the circumbinary disk is initially aligned with the binary orbital plane ( @xmath27 ) , as in most of the previous studies .",
    "however , the angular momentum vector of the circumbinary disk does not always coincide with that of the binary orbital angular momentum , because the orientation of the circumbinary disk is primarily due to the angular momentum distribution of the gas supplied to the central region of agns .",
    "therefore , the orientation of the circumbinary disk plane can be taken arbitrarily with respect to the binary orbital plane .",
    "in such a misaligned system with a significant tilt angle , the inner part of the circumbinary disk tends to align with the binary orbital plane by the tidal interaction between the binary and the circumbinary disk , whereas the outer part tends to retain the original state by the shear viscosity in the vertical direction . as a result",
    ", the circumbinary disk should be warped without the effect of radiation driven warping instability .",
    "it is important to examine how the radiation driven warping instability works in the misaligned systems under the tidal potential , but it is difficult to find the analytic solutions because of the complicated dependence of the tidal and radiative torques on the tilt angle and azimuth of tilt .",
    "we will numerically study this problem in the future .",
    "there is a cavity between the circumbinary disk and the binary ( see figure  [ fig : schmatic ] ) , which is elongated even in a circular binary case because of the binary - disk interaction ( e.g. , @xcite ) . the inner radius of the circumbinary disk , i.e. , the outer radius of the cavity , is equal to the tidal truncation radius , where the tidal torque is balanced with the viscous torque of the circumbinary disk , and is typically @xmath33 .",
    "since the marginally stable warping radius is substantially larger than the inner radius of the circumbinary disk , the shape of the cavity gives little influence on the warping condition .",
    "probing gravitational waves ( gws ) from individual binary smbhs with masses @xmath34 with pulser timing arrays ( ptas ) @xcite also gives a powerful tool to determine if the central object surrounded by the warped maser disk is binary smbhs or a single smbh .",
    "for a typical pta error box ( @xmath35 ) in the sky , the number of interloping agns are of the order of @xmath36 for more than @xmath37 black holes if the redshift range is between @xmath38 and @xmath39 ( see figure 1 of @xcite in detail ) . assuming that the central objects at the center of observed warped maser disks are binary smbhs on several tens of milliparsec scale , the characteristic amplitudes of gws emitted from those systems are estimated to be @xmath40 for inspiral gws and @xmath41 for memory gws associated with the final mergers @xcite .",
    "since they are three to four orders of magnitude less than the current pta sensitivity of @xmath42 , it is unlikely for gws to be detected from the currently identified warped maser disk systems .",
    "if the total mass of binary smbhs is more massive , however , the characteristic amplitudes of the gw signals could be large enough to be detected with future planned ptas such as the square kilometer array with @xmath43 sensitivity .",
    "it will therefore be desired to identify warped maser disks around the central massive objects with masses @xmath44 in nearby agns .",
    "we have also discussed the application of the warped circumbinary disk model to the observed warped maser disks in table  [ tbl : t2 ] . in the case of the marginally stable warping radius with @xmath45 and @xmath46 , only the circinus meets the condition that the marginally stable warping radius is less than both the observed warping radius and the dust sublimation radius of agn which is assumed to be equal to the outer radius of the circumbinary disk . in this case",
    ", the resultant inferred semi - major axis is between @xmath47 and @xmath48 . on the other hand ,",
    "it is unlikely that the warped structure of the maser disks at the center of other five systems originates from radiative torque , even if their central objects are a single smbh .",
    "the condition in question substantially depends on the observed warping radius and values of @xmath29 and @xmath30 in the marginally stable warping radius .",
    "further theoretical arguments about an appropriate treatment of @xmath30 and @xmath29 , and observations to measure the warping radii more precisely in the existing maser disks , are desirable .",
    "the authors thank the anonymous referee for fruitful comments and suggestions .",
    "the authors also thank nicholas stone for his carefully reading the manuscript and helpful comments .",
    "kh is grateful to jongsoo  kim for helpful discussions and his continuous encouragement .",
    "bws and thj are grateful for support from kasi - yonsei drc program of korea research council of fundamental science and technology ( drc-12 - 2-kasi ) .",
    "this work was also supported in part by the grants - in - aid for scientific research ( c ) of japan society for the promotion of science [ 23540271 tn and kh , 24540235 ato and kh ] .",
    "armitage ,  p. j. , & natarajan ,  p. 2005",
    ", , 634 , 921 artymowicz ,  p. , & lubow ,  s.h .",
    "1994 , , 421 , 651 bardeen j. m. , & petterson j. a. 1975 , apj , 195 , l65 bate ,  m.  r. , bonnel ,  i. a. , clarke ,  c.  j. , lubow ,  h. , ogilvie ,  g.  i. , pringle ,  j.  e. , & tout ,  c.  a. 2000 , , 317 , 773 begelman ,  m. c. , blandford ,  r. d. , & rees ,  m. j. 1980 , , 287 , 307 blaes ,  o. 2013 , arxiv:1304.4879 braatz , j. , greenhill , l. , reid , m. , condon , j. , henkel , c. , & lo , k .- y .",
    "2007 , in iau symp .",
    "242 , astrophysical masers and their environments ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 399 barvainis , r. 1987 , apj , 320 , 537 bregman , m. , & alexander , t. 2009 , apjl , 700 , l192 caproni , a. , abraham , z. , livio , m. , & mosquera cuesta , h. j. 2007 , , 379 , 135 dorazio , j.  d. , haiman , z. , & macfadyen ,  a. 2013 , , 436 , 2997 ferrarese ,  l. , & merritt , d. 2000 , , 539 , l9 gebhardt , k. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 539 , l13 greenhill , l. j. , & gwinn , c. r. 1997 , ap&ss , 248 , 261 greenhill , l. j. , booth , r. s. , & ellingsen , s. p. et al .",
    "2003 , apj , 590 , 162 hayasaki ,  k. , mineshige ,  s. , & ho ,  c.  l. 2008 , , 682 , 1134 hayasaki ,  k. , mineshige ,  s. , & sudou ,  h. 2007 , , 59 , 427 hayasaki , k. 2009 , , 61 , 65 hayasaki ,  k. , ueda ,  y. , & isobe ,  n. 2010 , , 62 , 1351 herrnstein , j. r. , moran , j. m. , greenhill , l. j. , & trotter ,  a.  s. 2005 , apj , 629 , 719 kato , s. , fukue , j. , & mineshige , s. 2008 , black - hole accretion disks , towards a new paradigm ( kyoto : kyoto university press ) kondratko , p. t. , greenhill , l. j. , & moran , j. m. 2008 , apj , 678 , 87 komossa , s. 2006 , mem .",
    ", 77 , 733 kormendy , j. , & ho , l. c. 2013 , ara&a , 51 , 511 kormendy , j. , & richstone , d. 1995 , ara&a , 33 , 581 kuo , c. y. , braatz , j. a. , condon , j. j. , impellizzeri , c. m. v. , lo , k. y. , zaw , i. , schenker , m. , henkel , c. , reid , m. j. , & greene , j. e. 2011 , apj , 727 , 20 lommen a. n. , backer d. c. 2001 , apj , 562 , 297 macfadyen ,  i.a . , & milosavljevi , m. 2008 , , 672 , 83 magorrian , j. , tremaine , s. , richstone , d. , et al . 1998 , aj , 115 , 2285 maloney ,  p.  r. , & begelman ,  m.  c. 1997 , , 491 , l13 martin ,  r.  g. , pringle ,  j.  e. , & tout , c. a. 2007 , mnras , 381 , 1617 martin , r.  g. , pringle , j.  e. , & tout , c.  a. 2009 , mnras , 400 , 383 mcconnell ,  n.  j. , ma ,  c .- p .",
    ", 2013 , apj , 764 , 184 miyoshi ,  m. , moran ,  j. , herrnstein , j. , greenhill ,  l. , nakai ,  n. , diamond ,  p. , & inoue ,  m. 1995 , nature , 373 , 127 ogilvie ,  g. 1999 , , 304 , 557 papaloizou ,  j.  c.  b. , & pringle ,  j.  e. 1983 , , 202 , 1181 peters ,  p.  c. 1964 , phys .",
    ", 136 , b1224 popovi ,  l.   .",
    ", 2012 , newar , 56 , 74 pringle ,  j.  e. 1996 , , 281 , 357 reid , m. j. , braatz , j. a. , condon , j. j. , greenhill , l. j. , henkel , c. , & lo , k. y. 2009 , apj , 695 , 287 roedig ,  c. , dotti , m. , sesana ,  a. , cuadra ,  j. , & colpi ,  m. 2011 , , 415 , 3033 schnittman ,  j.  d. 2013 , classical and quantum gravity , 30 , 24 , 244007 seto n. , 2009 , , 400 , l38 sesana a. , vecchio a. , volonteri m. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 2255 tanaka ,  t. , menou ,  k. , & haiman ,  z. 2012 , , 420 , 705 wardle ,  m. , & yusef - zadeh ,  f. 2012 , , 750 , l38 wijers ,  r.a.m.j . , &",
    "pringle ,  j.  e. 1999 , , 308 , 207 yamauchi , a. , nakai , n. , sato , n. , & diamond , p. 2004",
    ", , 56 , 605"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study a warping instability of a geometrically thin , non - self - gravitating disk surrounding binary supermassive black holes on a circular orbit . </S>",
    "<S> such a circumbinary disk is subject to not only tidal torques due to the binary gravitational potential but also radiative torques due to radiation emitted from an accretion disk around each black hole . </S>",
    "<S> we find that a circumbinary disk initially aligned with the binary orbital plane is unstable to radiation - driven warping beyond the marginally stable warping radius , which is sensitive to both the ratio of vertical to horizontal shear viscosities and the mass - to - energy conversion efficiency . </S>",
    "<S> as expected , the tidal torques give no contribution to the growth of warping modes but tend to align the circumbinary disk with the orbital plane . since the tidal torques can suppress the warping modes in the inner part of circumbinary disk , the circumbinary disk starts to be warped at radii larger than the marginally stable warping radius . </S>",
    "<S> if the warping radius is of the order of @xmath0 , a resultant semi - major axis is estimated to be of the order of @xmath1 to @xmath2 for @xmath3 black hole . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss the possibility that the central objects of observed warped maser disks in active galactic nuclei are binary supermassive black holes with a triple disk : two accretion disks around the individual black holes and one circumbinary disk surrounding them . </S>"
  ]
}