{
  "article_text": [
    "magnetar is a new kind of pulsars compared with rotation - powered and accretion - powered pulsars ( duncan & thompson 1992 ) . the star s radiations ( both persistent and burst ) are from their magnetic energy ( thompson & duncan 1995 , 1996 ) .",
    "observationally , anomalous x - ray pulsars ( axps ) and soft gamma - ray repeaters ( sgrs ) are assumed to be magnetars ( mereghetti 2008 ) .",
    "the release of magnetic energy can be in all wavelength , including radio , optical / infrared , soft and hard x - ray etc ( mereghetti 2008 ; olausen & kaspi 2014 ) . besides axps and sgrs , there exist other magnetar - related objects .",
    "x - ray dim isolated neutron stars are nearby sources with high surface dipole field ( @xmath0 ) , simple blackbody spectrum and without radiative activities ( turolla 2009 ; tong et al . 2010 , 2011 ) .",
    "they are supposed to be dead magnetars ( vigano et al .",
    "central compact objects are compact stars lying at the center of the supernova remnant ( de luca 2008 )",
    ". their small hot spot in x - rays may require the crustal field up to magnetar strength ( shabaltas & lai 2012 ) .",
    "while timing observations only find a very small surface dipole field ( @xmath1 , halpern & gotthelf 2010 ) .",
    "therefore , they are dubbed anti - magnetars ( gotthelf & halpern 2008 ) .",
    "superslow x - ray pulsars are special sources in high mass x - ray binaries ( wang 2013a ) .",
    "their spin period is longer than 1000 seconds .",
    "large period derivatives are also observed ( both negative and positive ) .",
    "their very long spin period and large period derivative may require a magnetar strength surface dipole field .",
    "therefore , they are supposed to be accreting magnetars . the central engine of some gamma - ray burst may be a millisecond magnetar ( usov 1992 ; l@xmath2 & zhang 2014 ) . if the surface dipole field is higher than @xmath3 , the rotational energy may be released in a very short timescale , thus result in a gamma - ray burst .",
    "however , for these so called magnetar - related objects ( anti - magnetar , accreting magnetar , millisecond magnetar ) , their radiations are not powered by the magnetic energy . according to present observations , they are just neutron stars with strong surface dipole field",
    ". current understandings of magnetars tell us that a neutron star plus strong surface dipole field is not a magnetar .",
    "the names of these objects are improper and misleading . in the following",
    ", we will first show what is a magnetar .",
    "then the essence of various magnetar - related objects will be analyzed .",
    "axps and sgrs are the most likely magnetar candidates . currently , there are more than 20 axps and sgrs discoveredpulsar / magnetar / main.html ] .",
    "their multiwavelength observations have been reviewed by many authors ( woods & thompson 2006 ; kaspi 2007 ; mereghetti 2008 ; rea & esposito 2011 ; olausen & kaspi 2014 ) .",
    "the salient features can be summarized as follows .",
    "1 .   persistent and burst emissions .",
    "many of the anomalous x - ray pulsars and soft gamma - ray repeaters have persistent x - ray luminosity higher than their rotational energy loss rate ( e.g. , figure 13 in olausen & kaspi 2014 ; figure 1 in tong et al .",
    "2013 ) . at the same time",
    ", they show various kinds of burst , outburst and flares ( woods & thompson 2006 ; kaspi 2007 ; mereghetti 2008 ; rea & esposito 2011 ) .",
    "these two aspects are the key reasons to employ the magnetar model , which provides a new energy reservoir ( thompson & duncan 1995 , 1996 ) .",
    "2 .   timing behaviors . from their distribution on the @xmath4 diagram of pulsars ( see figure [ fig_ppdot ] ) , magnetars have pulsation period clustered around @xmath5 seconds . at the same time",
    ", their period derivatives span a broader range ( from @xmath6 to @xmath7 ) .",
    "this scatter of period derivative results in a scatter of the magnetars characteristic magnetic field ( from less than @xmath8 to higher than @xmath3 ) , and characteristic age ( from @xmath9 to more than @xmath10 ) .",
    "therefore , a long pulsation period is a common characteristic of magnetars ( not the period derivative or dipole field ) .",
    "3 .   multiwavelength spectral properties and variabilities . both the spindown rate and x - ray emissions of magnetars",
    "change with time ( e.g. , sgr j1745@xmath112900 ( kaspi et al . 2014 ; tong 2014 ) ; see tong & xu 2014 for more information ) .",
    "variations in radiation and timing are also observed in radio observations of magnetars ( camilo et al .",
    "2007 ; levin et al . 2012 ) . in the magnetar model , both the radiation and braking torque are dominated by magnetic field ( thompson et al . 2002 ; tong et al .",
    "therefore , it is natural that there is a correlation between radiative and timing events of magnetars ( tong & xu 2014 ) . compared with the x - ray radiation of x - ray dim isolated neutron stars and central compact objects , magnetars have a significant nonthermal radiation .",
    "there is a power law component in the soft x - ray band ( power law index @xmath12 , rea et al .",
    "2008 ) , another power low component in the hard x - ray range ( power law index @xmath13 , gotz et al . 2006 ; wang et al .",
    "2014 ) , a flat radio spectra ( camilo et al . 2006 ) , and nonthermal optical emissions ( wang et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "these features make magnetars different from high magnetic field pulsars , x - ray dim isolated neutron stars and rotating radio transients ( although they overlap on the period - period derivative diagram , as can be seen from figure [ fig_ppdot ] ) .",
    "they are all caused by the magnetic activities of the central neutron star .",
    "the putative neutron star can have so many magnetic activities because it has a very strong multipole field ( either crustal or magnetospheric , thompson et al .",
    "2002 ; beloborodov 2009 ; tong et al . 2013 ; vigano et al .",
    "2013 ) .",
    "pulsar / magnetar / main.html ) .",
    "green diamonds are x - ray dim isolated neutron stars ( from kaplan & van kerkwijk 2011 and references therein ) , cyan circles are central compact objects ( from halpern & gotthelf 2010 ; gotthelf et al .",
    "2013 ) , red stars are rotating radio transients ( from http://astro.phys.wvu.edu/rratalog/ ) , magenta triangles are intermittent pulsars ( from lorimer et al .",
    "2012 and references therein ; surnis et al .",
    "2013 ) , and black dots are rotation powered pulsars ( including normal pulsars and millisecond pulsars , which dominate the pulsar population ) ( from atnf : http://www.atnf.csiro.au / research / pulsar / psrcat/).,scaledwidth=70.0% ]      the discovery of low magnetic field magnetar sgr 0418 + 5729 challenged the traditional magnetar model directly ( rea et al .",
    "its characteristic magnetic field is less than @xmath14 and characteristic age larger than @xmath15 ( rea et al .",
    "it may be an aged magnetar ( turolla et al .",
    "2011 ) or a normal magnetar with very small inclination angle ( tong & xu 2012 ) .",
    "the existence of low magnetic field magnetars demonstrate that the presence of strong multipole field is responsible for the magnetar activities ( anomalous x - ray luminosity and/or bursts ) .",
    "the x - ray luminosity of central compact objects is similar to that of the quiescent state of transient magnetars ( halpern & gotthelf 2010 ) .",
    "their small hot spot ( with radius @xmath16 and temperature @xmath17 ) may require magnetar - strength crustal field ( due to anisotropic conduction , shabaltas & lai 2012 ) .",
    "however , timing observations found that they have very small period derivative ( @xmath18 , halpern & gotthelf 2010 ; gotthelf et al .",
    "this may indicate that they are born as slow rotators and with very weak surface dipole field ( @xmath19 , halpern & gotthelf 2010 ) .",
    "therefore they are dubbed as anti - magnetars ( gotthelf & halpern 2008 ) . the problem in the anti - magnetar prescription is that a weak surface dipole field in combination with a magnetar - strength crustal field is the same as low magnetic field magnetars ( turolla et al .",
    "furthermore , central compact objects ( which are still associated with supernova remnants ) may be much younger than low magnetic field magnetars .",
    "then , in the anti - magnetar model , central compact objects should be more active than low magnetic field magnetars .",
    "however , central compact objects show very weak variabilities ( if any ) and no significant nonthermal x - ray radiations ( halpern & gotthelf 2010 ) . in conclusion , at present there is no strong evidence for the existence of strong crustal field in central compact objects .",
    "central compact objects may be an independent manifestation of young neutron stars , in addition to rotation - powered pulsars ( e.g. , crab and vela pulsars ) and magnetars .",
    "the name `` anti - magnetar '' may be improper and misleading .",
    "an independent name may be better , e.g. , they may be called `` magninos '' ( which was also proposed by gotthelf ) .",
    "superslow x - ray pulsars are a special class of high mass x - ray binaries .",
    "they have rotation period longer than 1000 seconds ( wang 2013a , also see fig .",
    "both their long spin period and large period derivatives may require that their surface dipole fields are as large as @xmath20 ( by employing similar accretion torque to the disk accretion case ( lai 2014 ) , see wang 2013b and references therein ) .",
    "at the same time , possible cyclotron lines are also observed in these sources ( e.g. , 4u 2206 + 54 , wang 2009 ; 2s 0114 + 61 , bonning et al .",
    "2005 , wang et al .",
    "the presence of harmonics implies that these cyclotron lines are more likely due to electron origin ( potekhin 2010 ) .",
    "however , the cyclotron features may be formed above the neutron star surface ( e.g. , at five stellar radius , and at this radius the remaining magnetic field is just the dipole field ) .",
    "then the corresponding surface dipole field will also be larger than @xmath21 .",
    "therefore , superslow x - ray pulsars are often named as accreting magnetars ( wang 2013a , 2013b ) .",
    "however , all the required magnetic field is just the surface dipole field . and the x - ray emissions are dominated by accretion power ( e.g. , wang 2009 ) .",
    "therefore based on present observations , they are just accreting high magnetic field neutron stars ( shakura et al . 2012 ) . ] .",
    "similar things also happen in high magnetic field pulsars ( mclaughlin et al .",
    "2003 ; ng & kaspi 2010 ) . these sources may have higher surface dipole field ( @xmath22 , from timing observations ) . at the same time , their radio and x - ray emissions are more likely powered by the rotational energy .",
    "therefore , they are not magnetars and they are named as high magnetic field pulsars .    some magnetar activities are observed in high magnetic field pulsars ( gavriil et al .",
    "2008 ) . considering superslow x - ray pulsars may have high surface dipole field , finding some magnetar activities in these sources is also promising .",
    "soft gamma - ray repeater like burst is different from the type i and type ii burst in x - ray binaries ( gavriil et al .",
    "therefore , the most convincing evidence of mangetar activity is finding some repeated bursts from some superslow x - ray pulsars ( e.g. , one sgr - like burst by torres et al . 2012 ) .",
    "the release of magnetic energy may result in a rather flat hard x - ray spectrum ( power index @xmath13 ) and a cutoff at about @xmath23 ( wang et al .",
    "2014 ) . around @xmath23 , the emission due to accretion may be greatly suppressed ( wang et al . 2014 ) .",
    "then , an additional hard x - ray tail in superslow x - ray pulsars may be due to magnetic energy release .    in one accreting magnetar candidate 2s 0114 + 65 ,",
    "a possible hard x - ray tail was observed ( wang 2011 ) . in addition , the hard x - ray tail are only detected when the column density is very low based on the combined soft and hard x - ray spectral studies on 2s 0114 + 65 . for optimal conditions ,",
    "a magnetar corona may be formed around the central neutron star ( beloborodov & thompson 2007 ) .",
    "the hard x - ray tail in 2s 0114 + 65 may be generated by compton process in the magnetar corona ( the soft x - ray photons as the seed photons ) .",
    "if the column density is from the accretion origin , a high column density may suppress the the formation of such a corona .",
    "a second possibility is that the soft x - ray emission will be absorbed significantly when the column density is high .",
    "there will be fewer soft x - ray photons to be scattered in the magnetar corona .",
    "therefore , the hard x - ray tail can not be formed when the column density is high .",
    "more observations are needed in order to confirm the existence of such a hard x - ray tail and its magnetic origin . the hard x - ray modulation telescope ( hxmt , wang et al . 2014 ) will have better performance at @xmath24 . combining with other telescopes ,",
    "finding some magnetar activities in superslow x - ray pulsars ( and other high mass x - ray binaries ) may be possible . only at that time",
    ", one can say that some magnetar activities are observed in accreting neutron stars . at present , the radiation and timing properties of superslow x - ray pulsars are just the characteristics of accreting high magnetic field neutron stars .",
    "a summary of isolated magnetars and superslow x - ray pulsars is given in table [ tab_magnetar ] .",
    ".present understanding of isolated magnetars and superslow x - ray pulsars [ cols=\"<,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab_magnetar ]      when magnetar was first proposed , explaining gamma - ray bursts was one of the aims ( duncan & thompson 1992 ; usov 1992 ) . for a neutron star with polar surface dipole field as high as @xmath25 and angular velocity @xmath26 ,",
    "the star s total rotational energy is @xmath27 ( usov 1992 ) .",
    "most of these energies will be released during a very short time .",
    "assuming magnetic dipole spindown , the typical spin - down time scale will be about @xmath28 ( usov 1992 ) .",
    "the spindown luminosity will be about @xmath29 ( usov 1992 ) .",
    "therefore , a rapid rotating high magnetic field neutron star can be the central engine of some gamma - ray bursts ( usov 1992 ; l@xmath2 & zhang 2014 ) .",
    "this scenario is the currently so called `` millisecond magnetar '' model for the central engine of some gamma - ray bursts ( l@xmath2 & zhang 2014 and references therein ) .",
    "the problem with the `` millisecond magnetar '' name is that : the required energy is the rotational energy ( it is not the magnetic field energy ) ; the required magnetic field is the surface dipole field ( it is not the multipole field or toroidal field as the case of magnetars ) .",
    "therefore , the requirement is just a rapid rotating neutron star with strong surface dipole field .",
    "furthermore , the required surface dipole field increases with the required initial rotation period ( e.g. , figure 6 in l@xmath2 & zhang 2014 ) .",
    "the extreme cases are ( for different sources , table 2 in l@xmath2 & zhang 2014 ) : for an initial rotation period of @xmath30 , the required surface dipole field is @xmath31 ; while for an initial period of @xmath32 , the required surface dipole field is @xmath33 .",
    "these parameters are atypical from our current knowledge of magnetars and related pulsar - like objects .",
    "magnetars may be born as fast rotators ( e.g. , with rotation period of several milliseconds , duncan & thompson 1992 ) .",
    "this is why they can have very high surface dipole field ( and higher multipole field , duncan & thompson 1992 ) . while the existence of central compact objects require the existence of neutron stars born as slow rotators and weakly magnetized at birth ( e.g. , with rotation period of @xmath34 and surface dipole field @xmath35 , halpern & gotthelf 2010 ; gotthelf et al .",
    "therefore , the characteristic parameters of the neutron stars for the central engine of gamma - ray bursts are atypical from the neutron stars in the galaxy .",
    "based on the study of 20 axps and sgrs , the key feature of magnetars is their variability compared with normal rotation - powered pulsars . among the variabilities of magnetars , the anomalous x - ray luminosity and recurrent soft gamma - ray burst are two representives .",
    "the underlying physics of magnetar s activities is that they are neutron stars with strong multipole field ( thompson et al .",
    "2002 ; beloborodov 2009 ; tong et al .",
    "2013 ; vagino et al .",
    "a strong surface dipole field is not necessary ( tong et al . 2013 ) .",
    "this point is demonstrated clearly by the existence of low magnetic field magnetars ( rea et al .",
    "the anti - magnetar model for central compact objects is similar to the case of low magnetic field magnetars ( halpern & gotthelf 2010 ; turolla et al .",
    "the lack of variability in central compact objects argues against the anti - magnetar model .",
    "it may be an independent manifestation of isolated neutron stars .",
    "therefore , the anit - magnetar name is improper and it should have an independent name .    an isolated neutron star with high surface dipole field ( e.g. , @xmath36 ) may not be a magnetar",
    ". it could be just a high magnetic field pulsar ( ng & kaspi 2010 ) , whose radio and x - ray radiations are powered by the rotational energy .",
    "an accreting high magnetic field neutron star may explain the radiative and timing of superslow x - ray pulsars in some high mass x - ray binaries ( wang 2013a , b ) .",
    "the x - ray emission and timing variabilities of these superslow x - ray pulsars are dominated by accretion power .",
    "so they may not be defined as a magnetar family  accreting magnetar based on present observations .",
    "in addition , the birth of a rapidly rotating and strongly magnetized neutron star may result in a comic gamma - ray burst ( usov 1992 ) .",
    "the burst is powered by the rotational energy of the neutron star .",
    "therefore , this special neutron star may not be named as a millisecond magnetar , but just a millisecond high magnetic field neutron star",
    ". meanwhile , the required parameters in the model of gamma - ray bursts are atypical from the neutron stars in the galaxy .",
    "magnetars are just one kind of neutron stars .",
    "therefore , they should also be found in binary systems ( woods & thompson 2006 ) .",
    "the key problem is whether the magnetic actives can be identified in the presence of accretion power . from the experience of isolated magnetars ,",
    "magnetic energy may result in a flat hard x - ray spectrum .",
    "an additional hard x - ray component in the high energy end may from the magnetic origin .",
    "the smoking gun evidence is finding some repeated bursts from accreting systems ( as have been done in the case of high magnetic field pulsars , gavriil et al .",
    "china s future hard x - ray modulation telescope may contribute to these aspects .    in summay , according to the current understanding , anomalous x - ray pulsars and soft gamma - ray repeaters are likely to be magnetars ( e.g. , magnetic activities dominate the star s observational behaviors ) .",
    "some magnetic activities are discovered in one high magnetic field pulsar .",
    "no significant magnetic activities are found in central compact objects .",
    "finding some magnetic activities in superslow x - ray pulsars is promising .",
    "the currently so called anti - magnetar ( for central compact objects ) , accreting magnetar ( for superslow x - ray pulsars ) , and millisecond magnetar ( for the central engine of some gamma - ray bursts ) are improper and misleading .",
    "there is an abuse of language in the use of `` magnetar '' .",
    "a neutron star plus strong surface dipole field is not a magnetar .",
    "the authors would like to thank r.x.xu and j.l.han for discussions .",
    "h.tong is supported by nsfc ( 11103021 ) , west light foundation of cas ( lhxz201201 ) , xinjiang bairen project , and qing cu hui of cas ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> magnetars and many of the magnetar - related objects are summarized together and discussed . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that there is an abuse of language in the use of `` magnetar '' . </S>",
    "<S> anomalous x - ray pulsars and soft gamma - ray repeaters are well - known magnetar candidates . </S>",
    "<S> the current so called anti - magnetar ( for central compact objects ) , accreting magnetar ( for superslow x - ray pulsars in high mass x - ray binaries ) , and millisecond magnetar ( for the central engine of some gamma - ray bursts ) , they may not be real magnetars in present understandings . </S>",
    "<S> their observational behaviors are not caused by the magnetic energy . </S>",
    "<S> many of them are just neutron stars with strong surface dipole field . </S>",
    "<S> a neutron star plus strong dipole field is not a magnetar . </S>",
    "<S> the characteristic parameters of the neutron stars for the central engine of some gamma - ray bursts are atypical from the neutron stars in the galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> possible signature of magnetic activities in accreting systems are discussed , including repeated bursts and a hard x - ray tail . </S>",
    "<S> china s future hard x - ray modulation telescope may contribute to finding some magnetic activities in accreting neutron star systems . </S>"
  ]
}