{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the major goals in science is determining the past history and future evolution of the universe .",
    "the determination of this in a quantitative way has a long history , starting with the work of hubble ( 1929 ) who determined that the universe was expanding based on radial velocity and distance measurements of galaxies .",
    "this has continued using various approaches , including the use of cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) measurements , with the most recent work using e.g. , wmap , planck and bicep2 ( e.g. , komatsu et al .",
    "2011 ; ade et al .",
    "2013 , 2014 ) . currently , the use of the cmb and type ia supernova are the most common and influential methods for measuring cosmological parameters ( e.g. , kessler et al .",
    "2009 ) , along with baryonic acoustic oscillations and clustering measurements ( e.g. , eisenstein et al . 2005 ; blake et al .",
    "2011 ) .",
    "one of the dominant features of the current popular cosmological model is that the universe s energy budget is perhaps dominated by a cosmological constant - the so - called dark energy .",
    "the major evidence for this dark energy is largely based on observations of the luminosities of supernova at various redshifts ( e.g. , riess et al .",
    "1998 ; perlmutter et al . 1999 ) .",
    "other evidence for dark energy comes from baryonic acoustic oscillations ( e.g , .",
    "eisenstein et al .",
    "2005 ) , and fluctuations in the cosmic background radiation ( e.g. , komatsu et al . 2011 ) .",
    "the major result of this is that the universe appears to be accelerating since @xmath7 , and perhaps undergoes a deceleration phase at higher redshifts ( reiss et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "what is currently lacking within this cosmological paradigm is physical evidence for the existence of dark energy , which in principle can significantly change the evolution of the constituents of the universe , of which galaxies are the fundamental component .",
    "the basic idea is that if the universe is undergoing an acceleration phase , then the rate of structure formation will decline with time , halting the growth of massive structures , such as galaxy clusters ( e.g. , allen et al .",
    "2004 ; vikhlinin et al .",
    "in fact , observations of the number densities of galaxy clusters can be used as an alternative method for constraining dark energy properties ( e.g. , vikhlinin et al .",
    "2009 ) .",
    "recently , with a basic but firm understanding of galaxy formation and evolution it is now possible to go beyond observations of clusters , supernova , and the cosmic background radiation to use galaxies themselves as a new probe of cosmology .",
    "we explore in this paper how cosmological properties affect the formation of galaxies throughout their history based on examining the formation histories of dark matter halos .",
    "this lets us examine both how galaxy formation can be used as a probe of cosmology , and how cosmology affects the formation of galaxies . in this sense",
    "the formation history of galaxies in the universe is potentially another probe of the energy and kinematics of the universe .",
    "the use of galaxies for cosmology is not a new idea , and early attempts to measure cosmological properties , largely the measurement of the hubble constant , relied on luminosities and properties of stars and globular clusters in external galaxies .",
    "several cosmological tests were also proposed in the 1920 - 1930s that used the angular sizes , counts , and surface brightness evolution of galaxies ( e.g. , tolman 1930 ; sandage 1988 ) . however , these approaches were largely abandoned once it was realized that galaxies evolve significantly through time , and that the properties of nearby galaxies are not necessarily the same as more distant galaxies .    since we are now becoming confident in the measurements of galaxy properties , and",
    "how at least massive galaxies evolve and form over time , especially since @xmath8 ( e.g. , bluck et al . 2012 ; conselice et al .",
    "2013 ; muzzin et al .",
    "2013 ) we are in a position to reevaluate whether galaxy properties , and their evolution , can be used to determine features of the universe . while early cosmological investigations were based on measuring the hubble constant through the distance - velocity relation , and later through trying to measure the value of the deceleration parameter , @xmath9 , new approaches using the evolution of galaxy properties",
    "can potentially be used to derive features of the dominant cosmological paradigm .",
    "we specifically investigate in this paper whether the evolution of galaxies is consistent with the currently accepted ideas concerning a @xmath10-dominated universe with a transition from deceleration to acceleration occurring sometime around @xmath11 ( turner & riess 2002 ) .",
    "the fact that the universe may transition from one which is decelerating to one which is accelerating may have a profound impact on the formation history of galaxies which would otherwise be different in a universe with a different cosmology .",
    "the idea behind this paper is that the history of galaxy assembly is driven by cosmological parameters , and one of the ways this can be seen is through the merger history .    in this first paper of this series",
    "we investigate this problem by comparing models of halo and galaxy formation , which vary as a function of cosmology and dark matter properties , to the observed galaxy merger history .",
    "we investigate the possibility that comparisons between halo merger histories and observed galaxy mergers can be used as an independent new measurement of cosmological properties , and give us some indication of what would be necessary to use these features to constrain cosmology more directly using future telescopes and space missions .",
    "to do this we also discuss how comparing observations of galaxies to dark matter halos is perhaps a better approach for understanding bulk galaxy formation than to rely on the simulations of galaxy formation themselves .",
    "we furthermore show how comparisons between the galaxy merger history predicted in cdm simulations differ depending on the underlying dark matter .",
    "we demonstrate that the temperature of the dark matter particle also can have a fundamental influence on the predicted galaxy merger history .",
    "we further conclude how comparing halo merger models to observed galaxy mergers can reveal clues to the selection of observed mergers and how , and whether , there is a self - consistent observational and cosmological based theoretical picture for the formation history of galaxies .",
    "this paper is organized as follows :",
    " 2 gives a description of the models we use in this paper , ",
    "3 includes a discussion of the results of an analysis of halo merger histories .",
    " 4 is a description of the comparison between galaxy merger history predictions , the actual merger history , and consists of our main analysis ,  5 is a discussion of the implications for these results  6 is a discussion of our results and  7 is our summary .",
    "we refer to a cosmology with = 0.3 , = 0.7 ; @xmath2 = 0.9 ; h@xmath12 km s@xmath13 mpc@xmath14 as the concordance cosmology .",
    "in the dominant theory for galaxy formation , based on a @xmath10cdm cosmology , galaxies assemble by merging with one another over time ( e.g. , white & rees 1978 ) . the basis for this merging",
    "is the dark matter assembly history , and how dark matter halo masses grow by merging with one another . using newtonian dynamics plus a simple expanding universe model it is now possible to predict the total halo mass functions of galaxies across a large range in mass to within 5% , comparing different computer simulation results . with the small discrepancies based on the differences between methods of the various calculations rather than fundamental physics ( e.g. , reed et al .",
    "in particular , different group finding algorithms are largely the cause of the small differences in masses , rather than fundamental physics ( e.g. , knebe et al .",
    "2013 ) .",
    "predictions for how structure assembles is the backbone of any theory of galaxy formation .",
    "since galaxies are believed to form at the cores of dark matter halos , then the formation of galaxies should follow in some way how the dark matter assembles .",
    "dark matter halos and large scale structure are created through these halos hierarchically .",
    "this process can be predicted based on the basic physics of gravitational collapse of matter in an expanding universe , and its later evolution , and therefore does not involve uncertain baryonic physics .",
    "the details of how dark matter halos assemble is now predicted in detailed n - body and semi - analytical simulations ( e.g. , fakhouri & ma 2008 ) .",
    "these simulations essentially predict when two existing dark matter halos merge together to form a large halo within the standard @xmath10cdm cosmologies assumed .",
    "it is fairly straightforward to use simulations of structure formation to predict how dark matter halos with descendant masses between 10@xmath15 @xmath16 m@xmath17 assemble with time ( e.g. , fakhouri & ma 2008 ) .",
    "we investigate in this paper what various models predict for halo mergers .",
    "our primary method is to use a generalized code for calculating dark matter halo mergers within a given cosmology . to do this",
    "we calculate the merger history for dark matter halos through using the ` growl ' algorithm by hamilton ( 2001 ) using a power - spectrum calculated by eisenstein & hu ( 1999 ) . using this numerical formalism",
    "it is possible to determine the assembly history of dark matter halos using basic gravitational collapse physics .    to calculate this we use the results of hamilton ( 2001 ) , and a modified form of the _ growl _ code to compute the linear growth factor    @xmath18    for structure in the universe as a function of time , where @xmath19 is the amplitude of the growth mode , and",
    "@xmath20 is the scale factor . the linear growth rate ,    @xmath21    is the derivative of @xmath22 , and relates to peculiar motions within the universe .",
    "using a friedmannn - robertson - walker ( frw ) universe , the growth factor @xmath22 can then be written as    @xmath23    where @xmath20 is the scale - factor normalized to unity , and @xmath24 is the hubble parameter normalized to unity when @xmath25 , where    @xmath26    the value of the growth factor and the hubble constant h(@xmath20 ) depend upon the value of cosmological parameters .",
    "the linear growth rate @xmath27 can then be written as    @xmath28    analytical solutions to the above growth rate are presented in detail in hamilton ( 2001 ) for different cosmological parameter ratios .",
    "the _ growl _ code then implements these fitting formula for various scenarios to predict what the growth factor is during the history of the universe , as a function of cosmology and time .",
    "the power spectrum used within this code originates from eisenstein & hu ( 1999 ) , who calculate fitting formula for the matter transfer function as a function of wavenumber , time , the massive neutrino density , number of neutrino species , the hubble parameter today , the cosmological constant , baryon density and the spatial curvature .",
    "mergers occur via the set excursion methodology from press & schechter ( 1974 ) but using the extended formalism . as a result",
    ", we measure the halo merger history as a function of the mass ratio of the halo mergers :    @xmath29    where @xmath30 is the sum of the halo masses of the two merger components ( or the resulting halo mass ) and @xmath31 is the halo mass of the more massive progenitor .",
    "we use these models with a variety of different cosmological parameters to investigate how the halo merger history varies with cosmology .",
    "the cosmological parameters that we vary are : the matter density @xmath0 , the dark energy density @xmath1 , the neutrino density @xmath32 , the hubble constant , @xmath33 , the baryonic density @xmath34 , the temperature of the cmb t@xmath35 , the number of neutrino species , n@xmath36 , value of @xmath2 , and the spectral index @xmath37 .",
    "we define the cosmology henceforth as the quantity    @xmath38    our method uses an altered version of the publicly available _ growl _ code .",
    "we measure the halo merger history through a particular type of ` major ' halo merger .",
    "these cosmological based halo mergers are designed to match as much as possible the merger criteria used to find mergers occurring in actual galaxies (  2.2 ) .",
    "we use these halo mergers as our primary method for comparing with observable galaxy mergers , as we show in  4 that the predicted galaxy merger history is currently too uncertain to be used to compare with real galaxies to derive cosmology , but that the halo mergers are known accurately enough to make this comparison .      in this paper",
    "we only discuss mergers which are major for both the observational data and the theoretical results . the criteria for finding a major merger is that a halo at a given redshift must have had a merger with another halo of mass 1:4 or less within the past @xmath39 gyr .",
    "this is the same criteria we use to find mergers in galaxies based on pairs separated by 30 kpc ( e.g. , bluck et al .",
    "2012 ) , and when using the structural cas system ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2009 ; conselice 2014 ) .",
    "this also matches well the mass ratio and time - scales for mergers for the cas parameters ( e.g. , lotz et al .",
    "we later discuss how these merger fractions would change if using a different value of the merger time - scale and after matching halo vs. stellar mass ratio mergers .",
    "we use a merger time - scale of 0.4 gyr throughout this paper , as this is the average time - scale in which we are sensitive to within the observations based on both n - body models ( conselice 2006b ; lotz et al .",
    "2008 ) , and when examining the empirically measured merger time - scales ( conselice 2009 ) .",
    "below we discuss in detail the reasoning behind this , and the uncertainties associated with using a fixed time - scale .",
    "first , it is clear that numerical models of massive galaxy mergers give an average time - scale of @xmath39 gyr .",
    "for example , conselice ( 2006b ) and later lotz et al .",
    "( 2008b , 2010a , b ) investigate the location of different phases of various types of mergers in morphological parameter space .",
    "they use these models to calculate the time - scales for how long these simulated galaxies appear as a ` merger ' , based on where they fall in these non - parametric structural spaces . while conselice ( 2006b ) used only dark matter simulations , the lotz et al .",
    "studies investigate the stellar distribution and how dust , viewing angle , orbital parameters , gas properties , sn feedback and total mass alter the merger time - scale ( e.g. , lotz et al .",
    "2010b ; moreno et al .",
    "it is found in these papers that very few properties beyond mass ratio and gas mass fraction affect the derived merger time - scales .",
    "these simulations show that mergers are identified within both cas at the first pass of the merger , as well as when the systems finally merge together to form a remnant ( lotz et al .",
    "however , merging galaxies are not found in the merger area of the non - parametric structural parameters for the entire merger , as was found by conselice ( 2006b ) .",
    "this however allows the time - scales for structural mergers to be calculated .",
    "lotz et al .",
    "( 2008 , 2010a ) find that the asymmetry time - scales for gas - rich major mergers are 0.2 - 0.6 gyr and 0.06 gyr for minor mergers ( lotz et al .",
    "while the individual time - scale for a pair of galaxies within a dark matter halo to merge will vary , based on the variety of models the average is 0.4 gyr and we use this throughout this paper as our measured merger time - scale .",
    "an issue that we have to address is that these time - scales are for gas rich mergers , and would not necessarily apply for gas poor or dry mergers .",
    "however , at the redshifts we are investigating here , nearly all galaxy mergers will have some gas , as pure dry mergers are relatively rare ( e.g. , lin et al .",
    "2008 ; conselice et al .",
    "2009 ; de propris et al .",
    "furthermore , the massive galaxies that we examine in this paper have gas fractions which are on average @xmath40% at @xmath41 , with little variation ( e.g. , mannucci et al . 2009 ; conselice et al .",
    "therefore it is unlikely that the computed merger time - scales differ due to a lack or over abundance of gas .",
    "we however do calculate how our merger fractions would change if using a different time - scale . in summary",
    "if our observed mergers have a longer / shorter time - scale then the resulting comparisons for halo mergers would be higher / lower .",
    "we utilize these numerical models to determine the fraction of halos which have merged within our given time - scale . for our purposes",
    "we determine the merger fraction of halos , which we denote as @xmath42 , at a variety of redshifts .",
    "@xmath43    later we investigate how the merger history of halos , and the value of @xmath42 changes as a function of different values of the equation of state parameter @xmath44 , and for a varying @xmath45 as a function of redshift .",
    "these calculations originate from the _ galacticus _ code of benson ( 2012 ) . within our calculations of the merger fraction",
    "we also take into account double mergers whereby a halo or galaxy undergoes more than one merger in a given time - scale .",
    "the merger fraction includes the total number of mergers the examined population ( selected by mass in this case ) undergoes divided by the total number of galaxies in that selection . therefore if a single galaxy / halo undergoes more than a single merger it is accounted for explicitly",
    "_ galacticus _ is a semi - analytic model which is easily adapted to differing physical and initial conditions .",
    "we utilized the same frame - work presented in the hamilton ( 2001 ) structure formation model , but through using an equation of state parameter , @xmath44 , as well as through the use of an evolving form as a function of redshift ( @xmath45 ) .",
    "we also use the results from the millennium simulations ( springel et al .",
    "2005 ) for both the merger history of galaxies which was discussed in depth in bertone & conselice ( 2009 ) , as well as the merger history of halos .",
    "we furthermore compare with warm dark matter semi - analytical models from menci et al .",
    "( 2012 ) to test how different dark matter particle temperatures can affect the galaxy merger history .",
    "finally , we also compare with abundance matched merger histories from hopkins et al .",
    "( 2010 ) .",
    "one of the major goals of this study is to compare the observed galaxy merger history with predictions from simulations for the halo and predicted galaxy merger history .",
    "as such , the data we use for this comparison are from a diversity of sources and different surveys of distant galaxies .",
    "most of these are deep hubble space telescope imaging surveys which have accurately measured stellar masses , redshifts and merger fractions out to these redshifts .",
    "the galaxy merger data we use in this study come from several studies of the merger history using the cas structural method ( conselice 2003 , 2014 ) , as well as galaxies in pairs ( lopez - sanjuan et al .",
    "2010 ; bluck et al . 2009 ; 2012 ,",
    "man et al . 2012 ) .",
    "the surveys we take our merger data from include the goods nicmos survey ( conselice et al .",
    "2011 ) , nicmos imaging of the cosmos field ( man et al .",
    "2012 ) , and the hubble ultra deep and deep fields ( e.g. , williams et al . 1996 ; conselice et al .",
    "we also take results from bluck et al .",
    "( 2009 , 2012 ) for m@xmath46 galaxies from the goods nicmos survey to @xmath47 ( mortlock et al .",
    "for the most massive galaxies with m@xmath46 at @xmath48 we supplement our data with pair fractions taken from the ultra deep survey ( uds ) when fitting with models .",
    "the other previous studies we use for comparison are those from conselice et al .",
    "( 2008 ) and conselice et al .",
    "( 2009 ) who computed the merger history for observed galaxies based on data observed in the hubble ultra deep field , and the cosmos and egs fields for systems at @xmath49 .",
    "we also use new candels observations of the merger history from asymmetries calculated within the candels area of the ultra deep survey field ( mortlock et al . 2013 ) .",
    "there are many other potential merger histories that we can use , but do not , due to time - scale and major / minor merger sensitivity , we only use galaxies in pairs and those measured with the cas system , which has a well defined merger time - scale for gas rich major mergers discussed in  2.2 .",
    "when examining the merger fraction history it is clear that there are significant differences between the various methods of measuring mergers ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2009 ; lotz et al .",
    "this is due to different methods being sensitive to various time - scales of the merger process as well as to the mass ratios of mergers .",
    "we are interested in a specific type of merger in this paper ",
    "systems which are merging and which have a progenitor mass ratio of 1:4 or lower and have merged within the past 0.4 gyr .",
    "detailed simulations from conselice ( 2006 ) & lotz et al .",
    "( 2010a ) show that a positive merger signature is seen when the mass ratio is 1:4 in total mass .",
    "we also investigate the corresponding stellar mass ratios , based on the dark matter halo merger ratio , when comparing predicted halo merger fractions to observed pair fractions (  5.2 ) .",
    "we therefore only use the cas mergers which have this time - scale sensitivity ( e.g. , conselice 2006 ; lotz et al .",
    "2008 ) , and pairs of galaxies where the merger mass ratio can be measured directly and where pairs with separations of @xmath50 kpc mergers have a similar time - scale as the cas selected mergers ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2009 ; bluck et al .",
    "2012 ) of about @xmath51 gyr .",
    "we also utilize these studies as they use similar or the same methods to calculate photometric redshifts and stellar masses allowing us to minimize these sources of uncertainty between various results .",
    "the stellar masses we use to constrain our observed sample originate from fitting observed seds to stellar population synthesis methods .",
    "the procedure for this differs between the various studies , but the results are largely consistent , and are normalized such that they use the same imf ( salpeter ) , and the same range of stellar ranges from 0.1 to 100 .",
    "the fitting method for our stellar masses consists of fitting a grid of model seds constructed from bruzual & charlot ( 2003 ) ( bc03 ) stellar population synthesis models , using a variety of exponentially declining star formation histories , with various ages , metallicities and dust contents included .",
    "the models we use are parameterized by an age , and an e - folding time for parameterizing the star formation history , where sfr(t ) @xmath52 .",
    "the values of @xmath53 are randomly selected from a range between 0.01 and 10 gyr , while the age of the onset of star formation ranges from 0 to 10 gyr .",
    "the metallicity ranges from 0.0001 to 0.05 ( bc03 ) , and the dust content is parameterized by @xmath54 , the effective v - band optical depth for which we use values @xmath55 .",
    "although we vary several parameters , the resulting stellar masses from our fits do not depend strongly on the various selection criteria used to characterize the age and the metallicity of the stellar population .",
    "we also utilize photometric and spectroscopic redshifts for our measurements of the stellar masses which also come into play when measuring the evolving merger history .",
    "the typical photometric redshift accuracy for these surveys is quite good , with values of @xmath56 ( hartley et al .",
    "2013 ; mortlock et al .",
    "details of how these photometric redshifts are computed are included in the above cited papers ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2009 ; mortlock et al . 2011",
    "; bluck et al . 2012 ; mortlock et al . 2013 ) .",
    "the errors in the merger fractions which we later use to fit to the predicted halo and galaxy mergers fully take into account the uncertainties in the stellar masses and redshifts for these samples .",
    "this is in fact the largest source of uncertainty when calculating the most likely cosmological model based on the merger fraction evolution .",
    "in the following sections we investigate the halo and galaxy merger histories both predicted , for halos (  3.1 - 3.3 ) and galaxies (  4.2 ) , and in  4 for the observed galaxies . in this paper",
    "we discuss many observed and predicted galaxy and halo mergers .",
    "to simply things we give a brief over - view here of what is presented later . in this section",
    "we only discuss halo mergers , and how they evolve as a function of halo mass , redshift and cosmology .",
    "these halo mergers are the basis for the rest of the paper .",
    "we give a detailed description of the halo merger history within the @xmath10cdm frame - work , comparing with predictions from semi - analytical models based on the millennium simulations i and ii , as well as with halo occupation distribution ( hod ) modeling predictions .    in  4 we discuss the observed and predicted merger history for galaxies at a given stellar mass selection using several methods and simulations ( e.g. , bertone & conselice 2009 ; hopkins et al .",
    " 4.1 gives an overview of the observed galaxy merger history which we later compare the halo mergers described in this section .",
    " 4.2 is a discussion of the latest in galaxy merger history predictions from both semi - analytical models and abundance matching .",
    "we describe there how the predicted galaxy mergers are unable to match data as well as the dark matter halos themselves and therefore use a methodology to compare directly the halo mergers to the observed galaxy mergers in  5 .",
    "we first describe the merger histories of halos using the concordance cosmology , defined as @xmath57 , @xmath58 and @xmath59 , as a function of halo mass .",
    "the merger histories for galaxy halos has been studied previously , but mostly only within the standard cosmology .",
    "early results ( e.g. , gottlober et al .",
    "2001 ) found that the merger history for halos can be described as a power - law increase with redshift as @xmath60 .",
    "more detailed predictions have been provided by modern simulations such as the millennium simulation ( e.g. , bertone & conselice 2009 ; fakhouri & ma 2008 ; fakhouri et al .",
    "2010 ; hopkins et al . 2010 ) where both the merger history for halos and galaxies are simulated and predicted .",
    "these simulations find that the merger history of halos increases as a power - law ( e.g. , fakhouri & ma 2008 ) .",
    "these simulations also find that galaxy mergers are less common than halo mergers , and that the predicted galaxy merger fraction is much lower than what is observed ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2003 ; bertone & conselice 2009 ; jogee et al .",
    "2009 ; hopkins et al . 2010 ) .",
    "however , there is a better match between galaxy mergers and halos when using hod models which match dark matter halos predicted to exist at a given redshift to observed galaxies selected by stellar mass and clustering ( e.g. , hopkins et al .",
    "2010 ) . in this case",
    "the galaxy merger fraction based on stellar mass is determined by the merger fraction of the halos in which these galaxies are located (  4.2 ) .",
    "here we investigate the predicted merger history for halos using the basic cdm model predictions with the methods outlined in  2 .",
    "the predicted merger histories of halos of a given halo mass limit ( m@xmath61 ) using the formalism from  2 are shown in figure  1 for a standard @xmath10cdm cosmology .",
    "we select these halos through minimum halo mass cuts , and show results for systems with log m@xmath62 up to log m@xmath63 .",
    "we only investigate here , as explained in detailed in  2 , the merger fraction for these halos of a given mass which merged with another halo , with a mass at least a fourth of the mass of its halo , and within 0.4 gyr .    to 120 mm    .",
    "we also show as the line with open circles the best - fit power - law to the merger history from the millennium simulation ( e.g. , fakhouri et al .",
    "furthermore , the lower solid line with box points is the millennium simulation prediction for galaxy mergers ( as opposed to halo mergers ) with log m@xmath64 .",
    "the red crosses are model predictions from stewart et al .",
    "( 2009 ) for galaxies with halo masses of m@xmath65 . , width=340 ]    [ sample - figure ]    figure  1 shows a general trend such that the merger fractions of halos are very high in the early universe , up to redshifts @xmath66 , with halos of the highest masses at @xmath67 having a merger fraction close to @xmath68 .",
    "our predictions for the halo merger history within the mass ranges where galaxies are found agree with those predicted in the millennium simulations i and ii ( fakhouri et al .",
    "2010 ) , and within the merger simulations of stewart et al .",
    "we also show the predicted quantities for halo mass mergers as the lower line with points in figure  1 , based on the millennium simulation , demonstrating the much lower values for galaxies than halos in the same simulation (  4 ) .",
    "we parameterize these halo merger histories as a power - law of the form ( e.g. , bluck et al .",
    "2009 , 2012 ) ,    @xmath69    where @xmath70 is the halo merger fraction at @xmath71 and @xmath72 is the power - law index for the merger history .",
    "higher values of @xmath72 are fit for steeper merger fractions .",
    "merger histories have often been fit with these power - law forms for galaxies at various stellar mass and luminosity cuts using real data for some time , although this is one of the first times this has been done for dark matter halos as a function of cosmology . previously , gottloeber et al .",
    "( 2001 ) applied this fitting method to merger histories in the standard cosmology .",
    "we list the results of this fitting for cdm halos of various masses in table  1 .",
    "these results show that the halo merger history is similar at @xmath71 at all halo masses , differing by only a small amount",
    ". however , the power - law increase is such that the more massive galaxies have a steeper rise in their halo mergers , and thus a larger merger fraction at earlier times than lower mass systems .",
    "this is a demonstration of the hierarchical nature of structure formation in halos .",
    "this is also opposite to what is seen in the galaxy population where the more massive systems appear to end their merger and formation processes before lower mass ones ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2003 ; bundy et al . 2006",
    "; conselice et al . 2009 ; mortlock et al . 2011 ) .",
    ".the best fitting power - law fits from eq .",
    "( 9 ) to the merger history for dark matter halos using halos of different masses .",
    "these merger histories are listed at the halo mass m@xmath61 limit .",
    "these fits are for the merger history up to @xmath73 . [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     we show in table  6 the values of the difference in derived stellar mass @xmath74 within the various cosmologies in reference to the coordinate cosmology .",
    "the biggest change is that at a given stellar mass selection , the galaxies examined are up to @xmath75 more massive depending on the cosmology examined .",
    "likewise we find that the angular scale can vary by 40% , but mostly around 20% for cosmologies different from the concordance cosmology .",
    "we investigate how the merger fraction changes when the measurements of stellar masses and galaxy separations are affected by different cosmologies .",
    "note that the cosmology has more of an effect on the measurements for mergers which are found within pairs of galaxies . for morphological mergers",
    ", there is no angular separation to worry about and thus it is only the change in the distance modulus with cosmology that affects the choice of which bin a galaxy belong in .    for this reason we utilize merger fractions , f(m@xmath76 ) which are a pure observable , as a function of stellar mass , which is as noted a function of the cosmology .",
    "we could use merger rates , but the time - scales for these merger rates depends to some degree on cosmology , and on the nature of the dark matter . by using merger fractions",
    "we are able to side - step this issue to some degree as it is a purely observational quantity .    to understand this issue we examine how the merger fraction varies with pairs when changing the cosmological parameters , which results in the different selections of underlying halos .",
    "we find that the observed merger fractions increase at larger separations , as long noted in pair studies of galaxies , and increases for higher mass selections at @xmath77 .",
    "the result of this is that the cosmology with a low matter density , those with @xmath78 , @xmath79 will sample at a given angular separation , and a given flux cut lower mass galaxies and smaller separations as both the luminosity distance and angular size distance is larger in this cosmology than in the concordance one . to account for this cosmology",
    "we would have to examine intrinsically fainter galaxies and look for pairs which have a smaller angular separation on the sky to match the intrinsic conditions used to find mergers in the coordinate cosmology . both of these effects will decrease the merger fraction measured .",
    "if we take the @xmath80 mass difference and the factor of 1.4 larger angular size separation we would measure the merger fraction as @xmath81 lower than what is plotted on figure  8 .",
    "this is within the errors of the merger fractions themselves , but would decrease the measurement towards the model values further than the observed .    to 120 mm    .",
    "the dashed lines are for the concordance cosmology but using different values of @xmath2 .",
    "the solid lines are for @xmath82 ( red ) and @xmath78 ( cyan ) , with both at @xmath1 = 0 .",
    "the blue points are the kinematic relations for the concordance cosmology described in  5.1 .",
    ", width=340 ]    [ sample - figure ]    likewise , universe s with a high mass density , i.e. , with @xmath83 have smaller angular size and luminosity distances . therefore at a given flux , and at a given angular size measure on the sky , the galaxies sampled within this cosmology will be of lower mass and larger intrinsic separations .",
    "this gives the opposite effect from above , and to measure the correct merger fraction would require going to brighter systems and at larger angular separations .",
    "these both would result in a higher merger fraction based on measurements of how the observed merger fraction changes at fainter limits and smaller separations .",
    "we calculate for this cosmology that the true comparison merger fraction would be @xmath81 higher , which would approach the higher values of the models , but would still be far from matching better than the concordance cosmology .",
    "more detailed comparisons will therefore have to be carefully done and all merger fractions measured in the cosmology being compared with .",
    "there is also the issue that our mapping of stellar and halo masses will depend on the cosmology assumed in the calculation .",
    "we show these different stellar vs. halo masses using different cosmologies in figure  13 . for the concordance cosmologies with differing values of @xmath2 from 0.7 to 0.9",
    "there is a variation of the total mass for a halo mass at log m@xmath84 is 0.3 dex .",
    "this would thereafter lead to a change in the derived merger fraction by at most 10% .",
    "as can also be seen , there is a large change in the measurement of the mass relations for the cosmologies with @xmath78 and @xmath83 .",
    "these differences lead to a factor of ten difference in the halo mass at a given stellar mass from the concordance cosmology at masses around log m@xmath84 in the most extreme examples .",
    "however , as the halo merger fraction dependence on mass is quite shallow , this only leads to an addition small uncertainty in the halo merger fraction of f@xmath85 .",
    "when better merger fractions are available they can be measured in different cosmologies and thereby produce a more detail comparison between models and data . in practice",
    "this will consist of calculating stellar masses and galaxy merger fractions at the different cosmologies under study .",
    "this should not be complicated to do , only time intensive .",
    "we finally note that the use of morphology and structure to find galaxies merging is potentially a more powerful approach than those from pairs of galaxies .",
    "the reason is there is less effects from cosmology on the measures due to only the stellar mass selection being affected since there is no selection by angular separation of two galaxies .",
    "in this subsection we investigate using the merger history as a cosmological tool .",
    "we preface this by stating that mergers may never be as good of a method as some to measure cosmological properties .",
    "the reason that methods that use standard candles such as type ia supernova are so successful is that fundamentally there are only two observations - the flux and redshift , which can then be compared directly to cosmological predictions .",
    "however , our method does allow us to measure cosmology by the effect it has on objects within the universe , rather than its effects of the expansion which most methods use .    the use of the galaxy merger history as a competitive cosmological tool will require that we know more about the properties of galaxies , namely accurate measurements of galaxy masses and the ability to understand the merger history without significant systematic biases . although the merger history has some agreement using different methods such using galaxy pairs and through morphology ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2009 ; lotz et al .",
    "2011 ) , there still remains work to be done to determine whether or not we can actually measure the merger fraction or merger rate to within 1% up to @xmath8 .",
    "this means we will have to measure the merger history accurately over all environments , such that the effects of cosmic variance produces less than a 1% systematic error on the measured merger values .    even if we can measure the merger history accurately without significant systematic errors",
    ", there is still the issue of shot noise within these measurements , requiring larger area surveys than what we currently have",
    ". we can investigate how good our merger fraction measurements will need to be to measure the history of mergers to distinguish between cosmological models .    to measure accurately the differences in the cosmological models presented in this paper requires that the accuracy in measuring merger fractions for galaxies at a given mass is @xmath5 . to distinguish between @xmath5 , for a merger fraction of @xmath86 ,",
    "i.e. , a 30% fraction of the population undergoing mergers , which we see at @xmath77 at high stellar mass , we need to measure accurately the merger fraction over 4335 arcmin@xmath6 or 1.2 deg@xmath6 .",
    "surveys this large do now exist , such as the cfht legacy survey and the ukidss ultra - deep survey ( uds ) , and the next generation of photometric and spectroscopic redshifts within these should make an attempt at measuring merger fractions by using pairs . however , the use of morphology for the measurement of merger fractions will be difficult given that only a very small fraction of this area has been imaged at high enough resolution in the near - infrared in the candels survey ( e.g. , grogin et al . 2011 ; koekemoer et al .",
    "2011 ) .",
    "we can further investigate the accuracy we need to get a 3 @xmath87 accuracy on statistical measures of merger fractions .",
    "if we want to obtain a 3 @xmath87 measurement at @xmath5 we will need a larger area of 8.1 deg@xmath6 .",
    "this is much larger than any deep surveys , yet in the future , those with euclid or wfirst will be able to measure the structure / morphologies over this area .    attempting to use the merger history for measurements of different values of the equation of state parameter , @xmath44 , and for an evolving form of @xmath45 , require a precision about twice as good . as briefly discussed in  5.3 , to measure different merger histories that can constrain between small values of @xmath44 to within @xmath88 around @xmath89 , or to constrain better than current estimates of @xmath90 and @xmath91",
    "requires that we measure the merger fraction to within @xmath92 or better .",
    "this will require deep surveys of at least 2.5 deg@xmath6 in area , which is currently possible by combining existing surveys . to obtain 3 @xmath87 statistical errors will require an area of @xmath93 deg@xmath6 .",
    "this also assumes that other errors , such as systematics with redshifts , stellar masses , etc .",
    "are small , which they are not . along side obtaining deeper and wider surveys we will also need to be more certain that accurate stellar masses and photometric / spectroscopic redshifts can be measured . as these improve to measure galaxy evolution so will our ability to use galaxies as a cosmological tool .",
    "there are a few important implications within our results , for cosmology , structure assembly , galaxy formation , as well as for our ability to measure the merger history .",
    "we briefly detail these here , although a further analysis of these will be addressed in later papers .",
    "the first issue is that by examining the dark matter assembly itself , rather than relying on the baryonic physics behind semi - analytical simulations we get a much better agreement with the merger data , making reasonable assumptions about the relation between the observed stellar mass of galaxies and their total halo mass from known scaling relations .",
    "this is an important point to make , as it reflects the well known problem of matching the abundances of galaxies with their total halo mass functions .",
    "it is clear that the galaxy mass function has a shape which differs significantly from the predicted halo mass function and processes such as feedback , photoionization , conduction , gas cooling among other baryonic processes must be implemented to correctly model the observed galaxy mass function ( e.g. , benson et al .",
    "2003 ) .    however , for whatever reason the implementation of the baryonic physics in semi - analytical models does not accurately reproduce the merger fraction and rate history of galaxies .",
    "this implies that the baryonic physics implemented in these models is missing ingredients necessary to reproduce the observed history of galaxy assembly , or is implementing them in an incorrect way .",
    "this is perhaps also reflected in the problem of semi - analytical models in predicting the number of massive galaxies at high redshift ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2007 ; guo et al . 2011 ) .",
    "while the warm dark matter models do better , this may reflect less structure on smaller scales , and thus more likely to produce similar mass mergers .",
    "we also demonstrate that the merger history depends on cosmology such that cosmologies with higher matter densities will contain a high merger fraction and rate , and therefore that there will be more massive halos in these cosmologies found in the nearby universe .",
    "we furthermore show , in a limited way , that there is also a good agreement between the merger history and the generally accepted cosmological model , such that = 0.3 and = 0.7 is the best fit model based on a wide range of possible cosmologies",
    ". however , it is worth pointing out that this constraint is not very useful in itself given that the standard model of cosmology is generally accepted . to be a useful indicator for cosmology , this method would have to be able to distinguish suitable differences in the merger history for the limited range of cosmologies that are now predicted in cmbr experiments such as wmap and planck ( e.g. , komatsu et al .",
    "2011 ; ade et al .",
    "however , it is reassuring that the agreement we find demonstrates a consistency between the dominant and generally accepted cosmology , and how the dark matter on the level of galaxies is assembling through mergers .",
    "it is possible to distinguish between various cosmologies with various and values , however we conclude that the accuracy in the merger fraction needed to do this is very high , on the order of 1% to distinguish between various cosmologies with similar values .",
    "this will require surveys from 1.2 deg@xmath6 in area up to 20 deg@xmath6 , but the real challenge will be in making sure that all systematics are accounted for when carrying out this comparison . one of these challenges is understanding the merger time - scale , that is how long an asymmetric galaxy , or a galaxy seen in a pair , takes to merge .",
    "this is essential when comparing with any predictions .",
    "the merger time - scale is estimated to be 0.4 gyr in this paper , which is what is found empirically by observing the change in the observed merger fraction ( conselice 2009 ) , as well as an average over simulations ( e.g. , conselice 2006 ; lotz et al .",
    "however , the merger time - scale does depend upon the galaxy gas mass fraction ( e.g. , lotz et al .",
    "2010 ) and other properties such as viewing angle , bulge to disk ratio and orbital type .",
    "while the average of such properties may be calculable from models , it remains to be determined whether time - scales seen at high redshift are similar to those predicted in models .",
    "future detailed simulations with for example _ eagle _ and _ illustris _ will help reveal time - scales for these mergers which will eliminate another key systematic to create these comparisons .    to avoid the time - scale issue",
    "completely the merger fraction comparison could be carried out using galaxies within close pairs ",
    "i.e. , systems which are just about to merge .",
    "simulations can predict this often as well as they can an actual merger , and observationally , these pairs are not as ambiguous at times as deciding if a galaxy is an active merger or not .",
    "likely , a combination of pre - merger close pairs and post - merger morphological signatures are best used together as a check on systematics of both methods .",
    "we also note that the agreements with the theory for some of our merger histories is not perfect .",
    "the most obvious case of this is the comparison between the halo merger history and galaxy mergers selected with stellar masses m@xmath46 ( figure  8) .",
    "here we can see that at @xmath7 the galaxy merger history is significantly less than that predicted based on the halo mergers .",
    "this is likely an indication that we are simply not detecting all the mergers for this population of very massive galaxies at this epoch .",
    "the reason for this is that many of these massive galaxies are fairly red at this epoch , and any mergers would be ` dry ' and thus not be detectable within the cas systems , from which these @xmath7 values are measured ( e.g. , hernandez - toledo et al . 2006 ) .",
    "what is needed is a full analysis of the merger history at this mass range using galaxies in kinematic pairs , as well as through clustering analyses to determine the actual merger rate .",
    "it is likely that the ultimate measurement of the merger history will be carried out through a mixture of galaxies in pairs , and those measured through their high asymmetries .",
    "typically the morphological approach is useful at higher redshifts , while the pair method is more suitable for lower redshift galaxies , especially at @xmath7 where there are significant investments in spectroscopy within deep fields .",
    "this paper explores the idea of using galaxy mergers as a probe of cosmology . while the idea that galaxy merging can be used to probe the properties of the universe is not new ( e.g. , carlberg 1991 ) , the use of it as a cosmological probe has never been fully characterized , or explored . in this paper",
    "we have shown that using a variety of assumptions regarding how the halo merger history can be matched to some degree with the galaxy merger history , the current observations of the galaxy merger history are in relative agreement with a concordance cosmological model .",
    "the halo merger history varies as a function of halo mass , such that systems with larger halo masses have higher merger fraction at all redshifts .",
    "this is in direct contrast to the observations of galaxy mergers whereby the most massive systems ( as measured in stars ) have a higher merger fraction at @xmath77 , but tend to show little merging at later times",
    "semi - analytical models based on cdm from the millennium simulation under - predict the galaxy merger history , but that those using warm dark matter with a particle temperature of @xmath94 kev do a better job in predicting the merger history than a cdm semi - analytical model .",
    ". the merger history of halos varies significantly with cosmology .",
    "the merger fraction and history is lower for lower matter density @xmath0 cosmologies , and highest for cosmologies where @xmath83 .",
    "the difference between these is large , around @xmath95 at @xmath8 and easily distinguishable with current measurements .",
    "we show that it is possible to compare halos to galaxies through the use of halo mass to stellar mass calibrations , and thus to compare directly halo mergers to galaxy mergers .",
    "when comparing the available data to these models the best fit is a concordance cosmology with @xmath96 and @xmath58 .",
    "we also show how the merger fraction varies as a function of @xmath1 at a single redshift , @xmath97 , and how this can be further used to calculate the best fit value of @xmath98      \\6 .",
    "we also examine how the merger history changes for differing values of the dark energy equation of state @xmath44 , and how a varying @xmath45 changes the calculated halo merger history .",
    "we find that accurate merger fractions on the level of @xmath99 are required to distinguish between competing models .",
    "the difference between the predictions for the merger histories is highest at the highest redshifts and in the future jwst and the e - elt can provide these measurements .",
    "the use of the galaxy merger history to probe cosmology in a competitive way with other techniques such as supernova , baryonic acoustic oscillations , and cmbr work will require several improvements .",
    "the first is that we must be able to match better the stellar masses of galaxies and their halo masses , as well as have a firmer idea of the mass ranges that produce merging and the time - scale for halo mergers , and how these relate to the time - scale for galaxy mergers . while halo occupation is one way to do this , and can produce successfully matched merger histories , we are able to derive similar results using a calibration based on the kinematics of galaxies .",
    "overall , we find that the accuracy of merger fractions would have to exceed @xmath5 to be able to differentiate between current uncertainties in the value of cosmological parameters .",
    "as explained in this paper this will required surveys on the sky of area up to several 10 deg@xmath6 .",
    "these types of surveys must also have accurate stellar masses and reliable redshifts with uncertainties , along with the merger uncertainties , which do not add up to a merger fraction errors that are larger than 1% .",
    "this will be difficult , but by combining results at various redshifts , and various masses , some of these limits on uncertainties could be relaxed a bit and systematics better understood .",
    "future surveys such as euclid and lsst will be ideal for carrying out this type of analysis and has a potential to be competitive with other techniques such as those listed above .",
    "we thank mike santos , aisyah sahdan and jack johnson for their early contributions to this work , and ed copeland for illuminating discussions .",
    "cjc , am and aflb acknowledge support from the stfc and the leverhulme trust . d.p . acknowledged the support of an australian post - graduate award and an endeavour research fellowship . a.f.l.b .",
    "acknowledges support from nserc ( national science and engineering research council ) of canada .",
    "99 ade , p. , et al .",
    "2013 , arxiv:1303.5076 ade , p. , et al .",
    "2014 , arxiv:1403.3985 allen , s.w . ,",
    "schmidt , r.w .",
    ", ebeling , h. , fabian , a.c .",
    ", van speybroeck , l. 2004 , mnras , 353 , 457 anderson , l. 2012 , mnras , 427 , 3435 benson , a. 2012 , new astronomy , 17 , 175 benson , a.j . , bower , r.g . ,",
    "frenk , c.s . ,",
    "lacey , c.g . ,",
    "baugh , c.m . , cole , s. 2003 , apj , 599 , 38 bertone , s. , de lucia , g. , thomas , p.a .",
    ", 2007 , mnras , 379 , 1143 bertone , s. , conselice , c.j . , 2009 , mnras , 396 , 2345 blake , c. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 418 , 1707 bluck , a.f.l . ,",
    "conselice , c.j . , buitrago , f. , grutzbauch , r. , hoyos , c. , mortlock , a. , bauer , a.e .",
    "2012 , apj , 747 , 34 bluck , a.f.l .",
    ", conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bouwens , r.j .",
    ", daddi , e. , dickinson , m. , papovich , c. , yan , h. 2009 , mnras , 394 , 51l bower , r.g . ,",
    "2006 , mnras , 370 , 654 bruzual , g. , charlot , s. 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 bundy , k. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 651 , 120 carlberg , r.g .",
    "1991 , apj , 37 , 429 conroy , c. , wechsler , r.h .",
    "2009 , apj , 696 , 620 conselice , c.j .",
    "2003 , apjs , 147 , 1 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "dickinson , m. , papovich , c. 2003 , aj , 126 , 1183 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "blackburne , j. , papovich , c. 2005 , apj , 620 , 564 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bundy , k. , ellis , r. , brichmann , j. , vogt , n. , phillips , a. 2005b , apj , 628 , 160 conselice , c.j .",
    "2006 , apj , 638 , 686 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "2007 , mnras , 381 , 962 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "rajgor , s. , myers , r. 2008 , mnras , 386 , 909 conselice , c.j . , yang , c. , bluck , a.f.l .",
    "2009 , mnras , 394 , 1956 conselice , c.j .",
    "2009 , mnras , 399 , 16l conselice , c.j . ,",
    "arnold , j. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , 208 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "mortlock , a. , bluck , a.f.l . ,",
    "grutzbauch , r. , duncan , k. 2013 , mnras , 430 , 1051 conselice , c.j .",
    "2014 , ara&a , in press , arxiv:1403.2783 de lucia , g. , springel , v. , white , s.d.m . , croton , d. , kauffmann , g. 2006 , mnras , 366 , 499 de propris , r. , conselice , c.j . , driver , s.p . , liske , j. , pattton , d. , graham , a. , allen , p. 2007",
    ", apj , 666 , 212 de propris , r. , et al . 2010 , aj , 139 , 794 eistenstein , d.j . ,",
    "hu , w. 1999 , apj , 511 , 5 eistenstein , d.j . , et al . 2005 , apj , 633 , 560 fakhouri , o. , ma , c .- p .",
    "2008 , mnras , 386 , 577 fakhouri , o. , ma , c .- p . ,",
    "boylan - kolchin , m. 2010 , mnras , 386 , 577 foucaud , s. , conselice , c.j . , hartley , w.g . ,",
    "lane , k.p . ,",
    "bamford , s.p .",
    ", almaini , o. , bundy , k. 2010 , mnras , 406 , 147 guo , q. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 413 , 101 hamilton , a. 2001 , mnras , 322 , 419 hartley , w.g . , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 431 , 3045 hernandez - toledo , h.m . , avila - reese , v. , salazar - contreras , j.r . , conselice , c.j . 2006 ,",
    "aj , 132 , 71 hopkins , pf . ,",
    "2010 , apj , 724 , 915 hubble , e. 1929 , pnas , 15 , 168 jenkins , a. , et al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 321 , 372 jogee , s. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 697 , 1971 kessler , r. , et al .",
    "2009 , apjs , 185 , 32 kneber , a. , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 435 , 1618 komatsu , e. et al .",
    "2011 , apjs , 192 , 18 lin , l. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 681 , 232 lotz , j.m . ,",
    "et al . 2008a , apj , 672 , 177 lotz , j.m .",
    ", jonsson , p. , cox , t.j . ,",
    "primack , j.r .",
    "2008b , mnras , 391 , 1137 lotz , j.m . ,",
    "jonsson , p. , cox , t.j . , primack , j.r .",
    "2010 , mnras , 404 , 575 maller ah , katz n , keres d , dave r , weinberg dh , 2006 , apj , 647 , 763 man , a.w.s . , toft , s. , zirm , a.w .",
    ", wuyts , s. , van der wel , a. 2012 , apj , 744 , 85 mannucci , f. , et al . 2009 ,",
    "mnras , 398 , 1915 menci , n. , fiore , f. , lamastra , a. 2012 , mnras , 421 , 2384 moreno , j , bluck , afl , ellison , sl , patton , dr , torrey , p. , moster , bp , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 1765 mortlock , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 413 , 2845 mortlock , a. , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 433 , 1185 muzzin , a. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 777 , 18 percival , w.j .",
    "2005 , a&a , 443 , 819 perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    "1999 , apj , 517 , 565 press , w.h . , schechter , p. 1974 , apj , 187 , 425 reed , d.s .",
    ", bower , r. , frenk , c.s .",
    ", jenkins , a. , & theuns , t. 2007 , mnras , 374 , 2 riess , a.g .",
    ", et al . 1998 , aj , 114 , 722 riess , a.g . , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 607 , 665 sandage , a. 1988 , ara&a , 26 , 561 seljak , u. 2000 , mnras , 318 , 203 sheth , r.k .",
    ", tormen , g. 1999 , mnras , 308 , 119 springel , v. et al . 2005 , nature , 435 , 629 stewart , k.r . ,",
    "bullock , j.s . , barton , e.j . , wechsler , r.h .",
    "2009 , apj , 702 , 1005 sullivan , m. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 737 , 102 tinker , j.l , weinberg , d.h . ,",
    "zheng , z. , zehavi , i. 2005 , apj , 631 , 41 tolman , r.c . 1930 , pnas , 16 , 511 turner , m.s . , riess , a.g .",
    "2002 , apj , 569 , 18 vikhlinin , a. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 692 , 1060 white , s.d.m . , & rees , m. 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341 williams re , 1996 , aj , 112 , 1335 zehavi , i. , et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 736 , 59 zheng , z. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 633 , 791"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> as galaxy formation and evolution over long cosmic time - scales depends to a large degree on the structure of the universe , the assembly history of galaxies is potentially a powerful approach for learning about the universe itself . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we examine the merger history of dark matter halos based on the extended press - schechter formalism as a function of cosmological parameters , redshift and halo mass . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate how major halo mergers are influenced by changes in the cosmological values of @xmath0 , @xmath1 , @xmath2 , the dark matter particle temperature ( warm vs. cold dark matter ) , and the value of a constant and evolving equation of state parameter @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the merger fraction at a given halo mass varies by up to a factor of three for halos forming under the assumption of cold dark matter , within different underling cosmological parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the current measurements of the merger history , as measured through observed galaxy pairs as well as through structure , are in agreement with the concordance cosmology with the current best fit giving @xmath4 . to obtain a more accurate constraint competitive with recently measured cosmological parameters from planck and wmap </S>",
    "<S> requires a measured merger accuracy of @xmath5 , implying surveys with an accurately measured merger history over 2 - 20 deg@xmath6 , which will be feasible with the next generation of imaging and spectroscopic surveys such as euclid and lsst .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution , formation , structure , morphology , classification </S>"
  ]
}