{
  "article_text": [
    "the first few gyr of cosmic history witnessed at least two major changes in the main constituents of the intergalactic medium ( igm ) .",
    "the ionized fraction of hydrogen and helium dramatically increased in a relatively short time - scale passing from nearly fully neutral to fully ionized ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for a detailed review ) .",
    "the occurrence and timing of these events - called cosmic reionizations - are connected with the density , luminosity and spectral hardness of the first photoionizing sources , e.g. stars in galaxies and active galactic nuclei ( agns ) . uncovering when and how these processes took place",
    "can therefore provide key information for both the study of the high - redshift igm and the luminous component of the universe .",
    "the reionization of hi  ( and hei ) was completed by redshift 6 , as evidenced by the lack of gunn - peterson absorption troughs in the spectra of high - redshift quasars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "it is currently believed that cosmic reionization of heii  is delayed to later epochs .",
    "this expectation is based on the following arguments : ( i ) normal star - forming galaxies produce a large amount of photons with energies above 1 ryd - thus ionizing hi  - but do not contribute substantially to the cosmic ionizing background above 4 ryd , the ionization threshold of heii ; ( ii ) among all sources with harder spectra , agns emit enough radiation to bring heii  reionization to completion but their abundance declines much more rapidly than the spatial density of star - forming galaxies at @xmath8 .",
    "similarly to hi  reionization studies , the main observational probes of the final stages of the he  reionization process come from the study of the heii  ly@xmath9 forest in the spectra of high - redshift quasars .",
    "unfortunately , the paucity of the sources for which the far ultraviolet ( uv ) is not extinguished by intervening hi  absorption and the need to observe from space ( given the heii  ly@xmath9 rest - frame wavelength of @xmath10 ) resulted to date in a handful of useful lines of sight for heii  reionization studies at @xmath11 @xcite . since the discovery of the first ` heii  quasar ' q0302 - 003 , observations with the far ultraviolet spectroscopic explorer ( fuse ) and the cosmic origins spectrograph ( cos ) on the hubble space telescope ( hst ) revealed that the mean heii  opacity at @xmath12 is much higher than the opacity of hi  at similar redshifts @xcite with a slow recovery of transmitted flux at @xmath13 . while this suggests that heii  reionization was indeed completed later than hi  reionization ,",
    "the large scatter and variance between effective heii  opacities measured along different sightlines in a wide redshift range indicate that heii  reionization may have been a very extended process in time @xcite .",
    "the presence of sightlines showing moderate opacity and some transmitted flux at @xmath14 is of particular interest to understand when heii  reionization was still ongoing . for @xmath15 , typical values for the effective heii  optical depth are around @xmath16 @xcite . moreover , very recent cos observations of 8 new sightlines at @xmath12 and the re - analysis of 11 archival cos spectra by @xcite suggest that the large line - to - line variation and low effective opacities ( with optical depths as small as @xmath17 ) may persist to the highest redshift probed to date , i.e. @xmath18 . however , these measurements are difficult and require sizable corrections which make them prone to systematic errors . for this reason , no consensus has been reached yet on the transparency of the heii  forest at @xmath19 ( syphers , private communication ) .",
    "the presence of transmitted regions in heii  spectra at such a high redshift questions the validity of current models in which heii  reionization is triggered by agn activity only @xcite . if the high transmissivity of the igm at @xmath18 is confirmed by future studies , it might be necessary to consider the contributions of additional , more exotic , sources in order to reconcile theoretical model and observations .",
    "for instance , normal galaxies emit copious soft and hard x - ray photons produced by x - ray binaries @xcite .",
    "the bolometric luminosity of these sources is expected to be several orders of magnitude below the instantaneous luminosity of agns , but their time - integrated contribution may be non - negligible , at least in the x - ray band ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , very little is known about the number of ionizing photons contributed by these sources in the far - uv .",
    "alternatively , shocks due to cosmological structure formation have also been proposed as major contributors to the cosmic uv background above @xmath20 ryd ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "if these sources are important , heii  reionization may have started with very little or no delay with respect to hi  reionization .",
    "it is worth stressing , however , that , while the bright end of the agn luminosity function is well constrained by current observations , very little is known about the evolution of the fainter agns at @xmath21 @xcite and their contribution to the total uv background .",
    "uncertainties in the spectra , opening angle , lifetime and luminosity function make the uv - emissivity of agns not well determined .",
    "moreover , yet undetected episodes of black hole accretion that take place in small galaxies at very high redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are not accounted for in the most popular models .    in this paper , we assess the statistical significance with which the data by @xcite , if corroborated by further evidence , would rule out the minimal agn - based models of heii  reionization that have been presented in the literature .",
    "these models completely rely on the observed population of agns and make very little assumptions .",
    "we address this problem using radiative - transfer simulations of agn - driven heii  reionization based on an updated version of the model presented in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper  i ) . in paper",
    "i , we used high - resolution adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) hydrodynamic simulations to investigate the topology of the heii  reionization produced by a population of agns that illuminate the computational volumes between @xmath22 and @xmath23 .",
    "the initial redshift for the radiative - transfer calculation was chosen to minimize the computational time and some numerical inaccuracies ( namely those due to neglecting the hydrodynamic response of the igm to photoionization , which came out to be much smaller than we originally expected , see appendix a in paper  i and * ? ? ?",
    "* ) given that previous observations and models suggested that heii  reionization took place around @xmath12 .",
    "we showed that the reionization process is highly inhomogeneous and extends for a redshift interval @xmath24 . during this time",
    ", the igm is composed of two phases : sharp ionization fronts expanding around agns separate hot regions of completely ionized gas from cold regions where he  is still singly ionized .",
    "the resulting patchiness of the reionization process gives rise to a bimodal distribution of the igm temperature and produces two distinct equations of state for the singly ionized and the fully ionized medium .",
    "mock spectra of the heii  ly@xmath9 forest extracted from the simulations presented in paper  i were in excellent agreement with low - redshift data .",
    "however , for the redshift interval @xmath19 in which data were not available at the time , our model was predicting a rapid increase in the median effective optical depth of small patches in the igm ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "this fast change was driven by our choice of starting the radiative - transfer calculations at @xmath22 .",
    "in fact , early agns , although rare , emit enough energetic photons to produce a substantial heiii  fraction by @xmath22 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : reion ] ) . in this work ,",
    "we expand our previous analysis considering the same agn population used in paper  i but starting now our radiative - transfer computation at much earlier epochs , i.e. @xmath25 and @xmath26 , with an updated version of our model .",
    "in particular , we focus our attention to the evolution of the heii  effective optical depth at high redshift and to the direct comparison with the new data that recently became available .    the paper is organized as follows . in section 2",
    ", we describe the numerical simulations adopted in this work and discuss the main properties of the radiative - transfer calculations , focusing on the differences with paper  i. we present the results extracted from mock spectra of the heii  ly@xmath9 forest in section 3 , where we compare the evolution of the effective optical depth with the most recent observational data at high redshift . in the same section",
    ", we investigate the properties of regions of transmitted flux in heii  spectra at high redshift .",
    "finally , we summarize our findings and conclusions in section 4 .",
    "we perform a set of hydrodynamic simulations of the igm with an upgraded version of the publicly available ramses code @xcite .",
    "we adopt a flat @xmath27 cold dark matter cosmology with matter density parameter @xmath28 , baryon density parameter @xmath29 , and present - day value of the hubble constant @xmath30 with @xmath31 .",
    "primordial density perturbations are described by a gaussian random field with a scale invariant spectrum characterized by the spectral index @xmath32 and a linear rms value within @xmath33 spheres of @xmath34 .",
    "our assumptions are consistent with results from the _ wilkinson microwave anisotropy probe _ presented in @xcite .",
    "the simulated volume consists of a periodic cubic box @xmath35 on a side and is originally discretized into a regular cartesian mesh with @xmath36 elements .",
    "we adopt a quasi - lagrangian amr strategy based on local density : cells that contain more than eight dark - matter particles ( or the proportionate baryonic mass ) are tagged for refinement . as a result",
    ", six further levels of refinement on top of the base grid are added at @xmath22 reaching an effective resolution of @xmath37 in the densest regions ( corresponding to a cell size of @xmath38 ) .",
    "we evolve the initial conditions from redshift @xmath39 to @xmath20 assuming that the gas has an ideal equation of state with adiabatic index @xmath40 and a chemical composition produced by big bang nucleosynthesis with a helium mass fraction of @xmath41 .",
    "we neglect small - scale phenomena like star formation , metal enrichment and supernova feedback which have limited impact on the reionization of the intergalactic he .",
    "we model soft uv photons emitted by star - forming regions in galaxies using a spatially uniform , but time - varying , background .",
    "we determine the photoionization and photoheating rates of this background by rescaling the model predictions by @xcite with a multiplicative factor @xmath42 in order to match the opacity of the igm measured in observational studies of the hi  ly@xmath9 forest ( see appendix [ app : uvbackground ] for further details ) .",
    ".summary of the simulations used in this work . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the heii  ly@xmath9 transition has a large cross - section ( relative to hydrogen ) and transmission through the igm is primarily associated with low - density gas ( see e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . due to their finite spatial resolution",
    ", numerical simulations tend to overestimate the density in these regions and to overpredict the corresponding heii  effective optical depth ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* for a discussion of this effect in smoothed particle hydrodynamic simulations ) .",
    "in order to account for systematic errors , we study how @xmath43 at @xmath44 varies with the resolution of the base grid of our amr simulations .",
    "we start from the base mesh given in table [ table : sims ] and we decrease the linear size of the resolution element by a factor of @xmath17 and @xmath20 .",
    "we process these three boxes with the radamesh code and extract spectra of the heii  ly@xmath9 forest in redshift bins of @xmath3 probing exactly the same density field at different resolutions . as a source of ionizing radiation we use a uniform background whose amplitude is fixed to reproduce the mean transmissivity found in the simulations with radiative transfer discussed above .",
    "a convergence study is provided in fig .",
    "[ fig : resolution ] , where we show the probability distribution function of the ratio between the effective optical depths evaluated , for the same chunk , in a given simulation and in the simulation with the highest resolution .",
    "this test suggests that the simulations with radiative transfer adopted in this work might overestimate the heii  optical depth by about @xmath45 per cent on average .",
    "therefore resolution effects should further alleviate the tension between our simulations and the observational data at @xmath5 .",
    "we approximately quantify their impact by convolving the pdf of @xmath43 determined in section [ sec : optical_depth ] with the correction given in fig .",
    "[ fig : resolution ] .",
    "the corresponding frequentist confidence levels and the bayesian credibility levels at which our model is ruled out are reported in table [ table : resolution ] for the different statistical methods considered in this work , where the subscript ` bias ' indicates the values obtained considering the corrective factor for the observability bias .",
    "we conclude that the discrepancy between the observational data by @xcite and our simulations is only a @xmath6 to @xmath7 effect .     and the baryonic overdensity @xmath46 for gas elements associated with transparent ( circles ) and opaque ( crosses ) chunks of size @xmath3 in the redshift interval @xmath47 .",
    "points are colour - coded based on the logarithm of the gas temperature as indicated by the colour bar .",
    "solid lines indicate the median values of the distributions.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]      the opacity at @xmath10 of a gas element is directly related to the fraction of heii  in the cell which , in turn , can be linked to the interplay between the density ( governing the rate of recombinations ) , the local flux of ionizing photons ( responsible for the rate of photoionizations ) and the temperature of the gas . in fig .  [ fig : proj ] , we compare the properties of transmitted and opaque chunks extracted from our mock spectra in the redshift interval @xmath47 .",
    "we associate to each transparent chunk a representative cell that corresponds to the maximum transmitted flux in the chunk ( circles ) , while a random cell within the chunk is associated to each opaque region of the spectrum ( crosses ) .",
    "the scatter plot presents the relationship between the photoionization rate @xmath48 and the baryonic overdensity @xmath46 and is colour - coded with respect to the temperature @xmath49 of the gas element .",
    "cells associated with transparent chunks are predominantly located in mean or underdense regions ( mainly because of the selection criterion ) and show a large spread in the values of the temperature .",
    "the photoionization rate is systematically larger than what is observed for opaque chunks .",
    "these completely absorbed regions extend to higher density and are described by an average temperature that is to some extent higher with respect to the transmitted case .    in order to evaluate the origin of the transparent regions in heii  spectra , we can associate to each representative cell the source that contributes the most to the local @xmath48 .",
    "the average distance between this source and the representative cell is generally smaller ( @xmath50 comoving ) for transparent chunks with respect to the value observed for opaque regions ( @xmath51 ) or for a random distribution of points in the computational box ( @xmath52 ) . in roughly half of the transparent ( @xmath53 per cent ) and",
    "opaque ( @xmath54 per cent ) chunks , the fraction of the total ionizing flux supplied by this single agn is higher than @xmath55 per cent .",
    "although one source generally provides the main contribution , cells associated with transparent chunks often receive photons from several different agns located nearby , thus being characterized by a large total photoionization rate ( @xmath56 for all cells associated with transparent chunks ) . on the other hand ,",
    "opaque chunks are generally affected by one single source and only a small fraction of them receive a significant number of ionizing photons . on the grounds of this evidence",
    ", we can infer that regions of transmitted flux in heii  ly@xmath9 spectra at high redshift can be originated by two different effects .",
    "the first possibility arises when the line of sight crosses the proximity region ( i.e. the zone in which the ionizing flux due to the dominant source is larger than the contribution due to all other agns ) of a single luminous agn . in this case",
    ", the large photoionization rate within the ionization front produces transparent chunks that can be ascribed to the so - called ` transverse proximity effect ' . a second , less common , possibility occurs when the transmitting region is close to several , fainter , agns . in this case",
    "the combined photoionization rate produced by the sources is strong enough to generate a transparent chunk .",
    "we perform hydrodynamic simulations of the epoch of heii  reionization adopting the same technique presented in paper  i : the output of an amr run is post - processed using a modified version of the radiative - transfer code radamesh @xcite .",
    "we use the quasar luminosity function observed in the redshift range @xmath57 to calibrate the magnitude of the sources in our simulated volumes , producing a realistic population of agns that turn on at @xmath58 .",
    "we consider different models for the redshift evolution of the emissivity of the sources and perform several runs to account for the different ionization history associated with the position and luminosity of the agns .",
    "we extract simulated spectra of the heii  ly@xmath9 forest from our computational volumes and compare our results with the most recent observational data available to date @xcite .    in agreement with our previous theoretical work and with observations of the intergalactic heii  absorption in hst / cos spectra",
    ", we find that the observed quasar population can completely ionize most of the he  in the igm by @xmath12 .",
    "all computational volumes show that the heii  fraction drops below @xmath59 per cent in the redshift interval @xmath60 , with a heiii  filling factor larger than @xmath61 per cent for @xmath62 .",
    "the completion of the reionization seems to be unaffected by the exact start of the radiative - transfer calculations as long as a sufficiently extended reionization process is considered .",
    "however , the increasing gas density and the decline of the agn abundance towards high redshifts cause a slower evolution of the igm properties during the early stages of heii  reionization with respect to the results of paper  i.    the effective optical depth of the heii  ly@xmath9 forest extracted from simulated spectra matches the observational data by @xcite at all redshifts .",
    "additional sources of hard uv photons beyond agns are not required to explain current data .",
    "however , moderate tension ( at about the gaussian @xmath7 level ) is present at the highest redshift which has been currently probed by observations ( @xmath5 ) .",
    "accounting for resolution effects in our simulations further alleviates the tension with the observational data ( the significance of the discrepancy drops between @xmath6 and @xmath7 depending on the statistical method adopted ) .    for @xmath63 ,",
    "our model predicts a large variability between different lines of sight generated by the ongoing reionization process as found by observations . at these redshifts , @xmath43 evaluated in chunks of @xmath3 has a very broad and skew distribution .",
    "the median effective optical depth increases at high redshifts more slowly than previous numerical simulations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , accounting for small , but rare , values of @xmath64 up to @xmath65 . the fluctuations in the effective optical depth predicted by our model correlate with large variations in the temperature of the medium that persist after the completion of the reionization process .",
    "transparent lines of sight at high redshifts are generated by the joint influence of the density , the temperature and , mostly , the local photoionization rate .",
    "regions of high transmissivity in heii  spectra are usually underdense and cross the proximity regions of luminous sources capitalizing on the transverse proximity effect generated by bright agns . in other cases ,",
    "the transmitted region is generated by the contribution of several , less luminous , sources that provide the required number of ionizing photons . during the final phases of",
    "he  reionization , the temperature of these transparent regions is generally slightly lower than what is measured for regions of high opacity .",
    "this reflects the fact that transparent regions have been ionized earlier and are characterized by a heii  fraction of @xmath66 or lower , while opaque regions are still experiencing ionization .    the moderate tension between the simulated and observed @xmath64 may be due to the observability bias , a systematic lack of uv photons in the models ( associated with the poorly constrained shape of the agn luminosity function , lifetime and spectral energy distribution at high redshift ) , or , simply , a statistical fluctuation in the observational data . in order to rule out our model with high significance , the sample size at @xmath5 needs to be at least two or three times bigger than it is now .",
    "if future data will confirm the current measurements , there will be sufficient evidence for considering additional hard uv radiation and , maybe , other sources beyond agns .",
    "a key challenge in a complete characterization of the reionization process remains : constraining the evolution of the heii  effective optical depth at redshift @xmath67 .",
    "when a sufficient number of lines of sight towards heii  quasars will become available in the future , tighter constraints on the timing , topology and the sources of heii  reionization will be placed from the joint analysis of simulated and observed transparent lines of sight .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for helpful comments which improved the quality of this work .",
    "mc thanks gabor worseck for providing the observational data before publication and david syphers for his constructive comments and suggestions on an earlier version of the paper .",
    "numerical simulations were run at the leibniz - rechenzentrum centre in munich .",
    "this work is carried out within the collaborative research centre 956 , sub - project c4 , funded by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) .",
    "sc acknowledges support from the nsf ast-1010004 and stsci hst go-13013.04-a grants .",
    "99 agresti , a. , coull , b. a.  1998 , the american statistician , 52 , 2 , 119 basu - zych , a.  r. , lehmer , b.  d. , hornschemeier , a.  e. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 774 , 152 becker , g.  d. , hewett , p.  c. , worseck , g. , & prochaska , j.  x.  2013 , mnras , 430 , 2067 cameron , e.  2011 , pasa , 28 , 128 cantalupo , s. , & porciani , c.  2011 , mnras , 411 , 1678 clopper , c. j. , & pearson , e. s.  1934 , biometrika , 26 , 404 compostella , m. , cantalupo , s. , & porciani , c.  2013 , mnras , 435 , 3169 croft , r.  a.  c. , weinberg , d.  h. , katz , n. , & hernquist , l.  1998 , apj , 495 , 44 fan , x. , carilli , c.  l. , & keating , b.  2006a , ara&a , 44 , 415 fan , x. , strauss , m.  a. , becker , r.  h. , et al .  2006b , aj , 132 , 117 fontanot , f. , cristiani , s. , monaco , p. , et al .",
    "2007 , a&a , 461 , 39 fragos , t. , lehmer , b. , tremmel , m. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 764 , 41 gehrels , n.  1986 , apj , 303 , 336 giallongo , e. , menci , n. , fiore , f. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 755 , 124 gilfanov , m.  2004 , mnras , 349 , 146 glikman , e. , djorgovski , s.  g. , stern , d. , et al .",
    "2011 , apjl , 728 , l26 haardt , f. , & madau , p.  2012 , apj , 746 , 125 heap , s.  r. , williger , g.  m. , smette , a. , et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 534 , 69 jakobsen , p. , boksenberg , a. , deharveng , j.  m. , et al .",
    "1994 , nature , 370 , 35 jarosik , n. , bennett , c.  l. , dunkley , j. , et al .",
    "2011 , apjs , 192 , 14 mcquinn , m. , lidz , a. , zaldarriaga , m. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 694 , 842 meiksin , a.  a.  2009 , reviews of modern physics , 81 , 1405 meiksin , a. , & tittley , e.  r.  2012 , mnras , 423 , 7 mineo , s. , gilfanov , m. , & sunyaev , r.  2012 , mnras , 419 , 2095 miniati , f. , ferrara , a. , white , s.  d.  m. , & bianchi , s.  2004 , mnras , 348 , 964 mirabel , i.  f. , dijkstra , m. , laurent , p. , loeb , a. , & pritchard , j.  r.  2011 , a&a , 528 , a149 neyman , j.  1935 , the annals of mathematical statistics , 6 , 111 power , c. , wynn , g.  a. , combet , c. , & wilkinson , m.  i.  2009 , mnras , 395 , 1146 power , c. , james , g. , combet , c. , & wynn , g.  2013 , apj , 764 , 76 prochaska , j.  x. , omeara , j.  m. , & worseck , g.  2010 , apj , 718 , 392 ranalli , p. , comastri , a. , & setti , g.  2003 , a&a , 399 , 39 rauch , m.  1998 , ara&a , 36 , 267 ricotti , m. , & ostriker , j.  p.  2004 , mnras , 352 , 547 shull , j.  m. , france , k. , danforth , c.  w. , smith , b. , & tumlinson , j.  2010 , apj , 722 , 1312 songaila , a. , & cowie , l.  l.  2010 , apj , 721 , 1448 syphers , d. , anderson , s.  f. , zheng , w. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 690 , 1181 syphers , d. , anderson , s.  f. , zheng , w. , et al .",
    "2011a , apj , 726 , 111 syphers , d. , anderson , s.  f. , zheng , w. , et al .  2011b , apj , 742 , 99 syphers , d. , anderson , s.  f. , zheng , w. , et al .",
    "2012 , aj , 143 , 100 syphers , d. , & shull , j.  m.  2014 , apj , 784 , 42 telfer , r.  c. , zheng , w. , kriss , g.  a. , & davidsen , a.  f.  2002 , apj , 565 , 773 teyssier , r.  2002 , a&a , 385 , 337 theuns , t. , leonard , a. , efstathiou , g. , pearce , f.  r. , & thomas , p.  a.  1998 , mnras , 301 , 478 vanden berk , d.  e. , richards , g.  t. , bauer , a. , et al .",
    "2001 , aj , 122 , 549 vollset , s. e.  1993 , statistics in medicine , 12 , 809 - 824 worseck , g. , & prochaska , j.  x.  2011 , apj , 728 , 23 worseck , g. , prochaska , j.  x. , mcquinn , m. , et al .  2011 ,",
    "apjl , 733 , l24 worseck , g. , prochaska , j.  x. , hennawi , j.  f. , & mcquinn , m.  2014 , arxiv:1405.7405 zheng , w. , chiu , k. , anderson , s.  f. , et al .",
    "2004 , aj , 127 , 656",
    "circles represent the value of @xmath42 that must be applied to two test simulations ( ple in blue and pde in red ) in order to match observations of the hi  effective optical depth .",
    "the solid line represents the fit given in equation ( [ eq : correction ] ) .",
    "bottom : redshift evolution of the hi  effective optical depth in our simulations evaluated using bins of @xmath68 .",
    "the analytic fit to observational data ( red dashed line ) by @xcite and its @xmath6 uncertainty ( shaded region ) are also reported for comparison .",
    ", scaledwidth=50.0% ]    our simulations use the soft uv background computed by @xcite as a template .",
    "assuming that the temperature of the igm is @xmath69 k , this model reproduces the observed evolution of the effective optical depth in the hi  ly@xmath9 line @xcite .",
    "however , most of the gas in our simulations never becomes so hot .",
    "for instance , the average gas temperature at mean density is of approximately @xmath70 k at @xmath25 and does not exceed @xmath71 k even when it reaches its peak value during heii  reionization at @xmath5 .",
    "since the hi  opacity strongly depends on the temperature of the absorbing gas , we need to use a different uv background to match the observed evolution of the igm transmissivity .",
    "one possibility would be to leave the photoionization rate unchanged and increase the photoheating rate .",
    "however , this would require the presence of much harder sources of radiation which are difficult to reconcile with the assumption that only young stars contribute at early times .",
    "we therefore prefer to rescale the predictions by @xcite with a redshift - dependent multiplicative factor , @xmath42 , which is determined requiring that the hi  transmissivity of the ly@xmath9 forest reproduces the most recent observational measurements by @xcite . to estimate the amplitude of the correction factor , we run two radiative - transfer simulations of heii  reionization using the soft uv background computed by @xcite combined with our two source models for agns ( ple or pde ) .",
    "we then use the fluctuating gunn - peterson approximation @xcite to scale the igm opacity in the simulations in order to match the data by @xcite .",
    "we find that the expression @xmath72(z-2.4)^{2}+0.52\\ ] ] provides a good analytical approximation to the numerical results ( see the top panel in fig .",
    "[ fig : meantauh ] ) .    as a cross check , the bottom panel in fig .",
    "[ fig : meantauh ] shows that the hi  effective optical depth extracted from our simulations matches the observational data points basically at all times .",
    "note , however , that the opacity extracted from the mock spectra is very sensitive to random fluctuations in the number and luminosity of the ionizing sources .",
    "for instance , the slight excess of opacity seen at @xmath73 must be ascribed to a temporary decrease in the number of ionizing photons emitted within the computational volumes per unit time ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use hydrodynamic simulations post - processed with the radiative - transfer code radamesh to assess recent claims that the low heii  opacity observed in @xmath0 quasar spectra may be incompatible with models of heii  reionization driven by the observed population of active galactic nuclei ( agns ) . in particular , building upon our previous work , we consider an early population of sources and start the radiative - transfer calculation at redshifts @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> our model faithfully reproduces the emissivity of optically selected agns as inferred from measurements of their luminosity function . </S>",
    "<S> we find that heii  reionization is very extended in redshift ( @xmath2 ) and highly spatially inhomogeneous . </S>",
    "<S> in fact , mock spectra extracted from the simulations show a large variability in the evolution of the heii  effective optical depth within chunks of size @xmath3 </S>",
    "<S> . regions with low opacity ( @xmath4 ) can be found at high redshift , in agreement with the most recent observations of uv - transmitting quasars . at the highest redshift currently probed by observations ( @xmath5 ) , </S>",
    "<S> our updated model predicts a much lower heii  effective optical depth than previous simulations in the literature relieving most of the tension with the current data , that , however , still persists at about the ( gaussian ) @xmath6 to @xmath7 level . </S>",
    "<S> given the very small number of observed lines of sight , our analysis indicates that current data can not rule out a purely agn - driven scenario with high statistical significance .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    radiative transfer  </S>",
    "<S> intergalactic medium  quasars : general  cosmology : theory  large - scale structure of the universe . </S>"
  ]
}