{
  "article_text": [
    "a time function is a key to the interpretation of quantum gravity .",
    "although , its choice may be decided before or after quantization , the need for a time function at some point is inescapable @xcite . but",
    "this choice is ambiguous , and as the evidence suggests , the quantum nature of the gravitational field is influenced by it .",
    "to our knowledge , the extent of this influence has never been studied thoroughly . without resolving this issue ,",
    "the quantum nature of the big bang can not be properly addressed .",
    "perhaps the first ones to notice the multiple choice problem were arnowit , deser and misner ( see e.g. @xcite ) , while the name which is most often associated with the problem is karel kuchar s .",
    "for a taste of his writing on this topic , see @xcite .",
    "the issue has appeared in a strictly quantum cosmological context in @xcite , where the choice of time function was shown to determine the fate of classical singularity .",
    "the most basic fact about the time problem is that deparametrizations of hamiltonian constraint systems with respect to different time functions give canonically inequivalent reduced frameworks .",
    "consequently , the imposition of quantum rules generically renders the models physically inequivalent .",
    "it was found in @xcite that different time functions lead to qualitatively distinct spectra for a hubble rate operator in the kasner universe : with respect to one time function the spectrum was continuous and unbounded , while with respect to another one it was discrete and bounded .",
    "such discrepancies may be a reflection of unique physics entailed in the choice of time function .",
    "some canonically inequivalent formulations have been also discussed in the context of a spherically symmetric dust shell @xcite .",
    "a general observation pertaining to the problem of time in general relativity were made in @xcite .    in the present work we are going to use the so called reduced phase space approach , which seems to us more suitable for this investigation .",
    "nevertheless , the conclusion we reach are completely general .",
    "we are primarily concerned with comparing quantum theories with various variables playing the role of time . in order to do that we need to ensure that any discrepancies found should reflect a different choice of clock variable rather than a different choice of quantization and alike .",
    "recall that in the light of the so called von hove - groenewald obstructions ( see e.g. @xcite ) , there does not exist a faithful representation of many symplectic manifolds , including the most familiar one , the plane @xmath0 . as a consequence ,",
    "quantizations are largely arbitrary , in particular they depend on the employed basic variables .",
    "the results obtained in this work are the following : we show that there exists a _ formal canonical _ mapping between any two deparameterizations , which ( i ) is different from a coordinate map and ( ii ) if turned into a unitary operator upon quantization , it ensures that the deparameterizations are based on a unique quantization .",
    "this makes the project for comparing different choices of clock feasible . making use of the discrepancies between that map and a coordinate map , it is easy to show that discrepancies in any kind of semiclassical description must occur .",
    "the extent of the discrepancies are illustrated by an example , in which we show that they may be made arbitrarily large .",
    "this makes the maximal or minimal values of cosmological observables very sensitive to clocks .",
    "we also show that decompositions of hilbert space given by self - adjoint operators corresponding to the same observable expressed with different clocks are in general very different .",
    "the application of the presented results to specific cosmological models is postponed until a next paper by present author .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in sec",
    "ii we provide a basic introduction into the multiple choice problem supplemented with a discussion of some special cases of time transformations .",
    "sec iii is devoted to the central result , which is given by two ( twin ) theorems about the existence of the formal canonical relation between almost any two deparameterizations .",
    "we propose to make the relation a unitarity upon quantization to ensure that any quantum - level discrepancies are induced by a choice of time .",
    "the theorems are supplemented by an example .",
    "we also give a general argument to indicate the dependence of semiclassical trajectories on time function used to derive them . in sec",
    "iv we prove that the discrepancies between semiclassical descriptions can be arbitrarily large .",
    "we conclude in sec v.",
    "let @xmath1 be a symplectic chart of a neighborhood of the constraint surface @xmath2 and let @xmath3 be a global time function .",
    "it suffices to focus on that part of the constrained surface , in which @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is some external time parameter .",
    "then , the constraint function @xmath6 satisfies @xmath7 .",
    "thus , via the implicit function theorem , @xmath8 at any point of the surface is a function of the rest of the canonical coordinates , i.e. @xmath9 for some @xmath10 . in other words",
    ", @xmath11 fixes the constraint surface unambiguously and @xmath12 is called the adm form of the constraint @xmath6 .",
    "unfortunately , there seems to be no general method for constructing the adm forms of a given @xmath6 for a given choice of time function .",
    "moreover , it is often the case that the coordinates @xmath13 occurring in the adm forms have non - trivial ranges , which is sometimes recognized through the problem of reality of physical hamiltonian ( or , of its self - adjointness at the quantum level )",
    ". furthermore , one usually has a weak control over the form of @xmath10 once the choice of time function has been made . however , as it will be shown , the choice of true hamiltonian and time function are in fact unrelated",
    ".    for discussions of the adm form in the full general relativistic context , see kuchar @xcite , isham @xcite and hajicek and kijowski @xcite . in the case of models with a single constraint in finite dimensional phase space ,",
    "the discussion simplifies considerably .",
    "suppose that there exists a canonical transformation from the initial canonical variables to new ones , in which the constraint @xmath6 takes the form : @xmath14 where @xmath15 and @xmath16 are new canonical pairs .",
    "then we observe that hamilton s equations of motion for @xmath17 read : @xmath18 we construct an unconstrained formulation in the following way : we interpret the variable @xmath3 as an internal time variable and @xmath19 as the generator of motion for @xmath16 .",
    "the dynamical equations are now defined in the reduced phase space , which is parameterized by canonical pairs @xmath16 . to distinguish it from the hamiltonian constraint @xmath6",
    ", @xmath20 is called the true hamiltonian and has the meaning of the gravitational energy stored in @xmath21 and @xmath22 at @xmath23 hypersurface .",
    "the dynamics of the removed variable @xmath8 can be restored from ( [ h ] ) .",
    "note that quantization of such a formulation follows the usual way leading to the corresponding schrdinger equation .",
    "the adm form is of course not unique and there exist symplectomorphisms @xmath24 such that in terms of the new variables the constraint function can also admit the adm form , i.e. : @xmath25 where @xmath26 .",
    "we included the index in @xmath27 to emphasize that the true hamiltonian generates the motion with respect to the internal variable @xmath28 .",
    "now , forming with eq .",
    "( [ 2cf ] ) the equations of motion like in eq .",
    "( [ red ] ) and applying the following reduction of the full phase space to @xmath29 , one arrives at another unconstrained formulation of the same physical system . as we will show",
    "shortly , the two unconstrained formulations will in general be _ canonically inequivalent_.    generally , the assignment of a time function , canonical variables and a true hamiltonian to a system , which is initially formulated as a hamiltonian constraint system , will be called deparameterization .",
    "for readers convenience we recall the definition of canonical transformations as given in abraham and marsden @xcite : let @xmath30 and @xmath31 be symplectic manifolds and @xmath32 the corresponding contact manifolds .",
    "a smooth mapping @xmath33 is called a _ canonical transformation _",
    "if each of the following holds : ( d1 ) @xmath34 is a diffeomorphism ; ( d2 ) @xmath34 preserves time ; that is , @xmath35 ; ( d3 ) there is a function @xmath36 such that @xmath37 , where @xmath38 . in what follows",
    ", the transformations which do not satisfy condition ( d2 ) will be called non - canonical .        for a class of kinematical symplectomorphisms restricted to the following form",
    "@xmath39 all the respective reduced phase spaces will be related by the canonical transformation given simply by @xmath40 with the true hamiltonian , @xmath41 , left unchanged .",
    "actually , the more general symplectomorphisms@xmath42 where @xmath34 is any real function , will be shown to correspond to time - dependent ( for @xmath43 ) canonical transformations in the reduced phase space . in this case , the true hamiltonian is transformed as follows : @xmath44 .",
    "we will specify the form of these transformations at the end of the present subsection .",
    "the broader class of symplectomorphisms involve a transformation of variable x , @xmath45 on which the time parameter is based after the reduction . this class of kinematical symplectomorphisms renders , except for a very special case , canonically inequivalent transformations when viewed from the reduced phase space . within this class",
    ", the following transformations is preserved by the transformation , i.e. @xmath46 . ] @xmath47 are particularly interesting and they lead , as we will show below , to what we will define as _ almost canonically equivalent _ reduced theories . among them , a very special subclass is given by @xmath48 with @xmath49 .",
    "it is not canonical according to the definition given in abraham and marsden .",
    "there is a good reason , however , to include them as canonical in the study of hamiltonian constraint systems , because they do not change the canonical structure in the reduced phase space , which will become apparent later .",
    "so far we have given the procedure of reducing the kinematical phase space via the adm form of constraint and the associated eqs ( [ red ] ) .",
    "now we will explain it in different terms .",
    "it will make the above statements about canonical , almost canonical and non - canonical transformations in the reduced phase space more clear . in the kinematical phase space",
    "the poisson bracket is well - defined and is equivalent to the symplectic form via @xmath50 . by the reduction of a hamiltonian constraint system we mean the following two - step procedure : first",
    ", one pulls back the kinematical symplectic form to the constraint surface @xmath51 , where @xmath52 is the embedding of the constraint surface @xmath53 in the kinematical phase space @xmath54 .",
    "the two - form @xmath55 is closed and degenerate with the hamiltonian vector field @xmath56 being its null eigenvector .",
    "therefore , the constraint surface does not admit any natural bracket structure , which normally is the inverse of a non - degenerate closed two - form .",
    "however , in order to obtain a reduced canonical framework one must construct such a structure .",
    "it is achieved by the choice of time function @xmath57 such that surfaces of constant @xmath3 intersect each physical orbit once and only once , i.e. @xmath58 everywhere . in the second step , one pulls back the degenerate two - form to a constant @xmath3 surface , in which it becomes non - degenerate and in which it may be inverted to a unique poisson bracket .",
    "the bracket can be transported to the constraint surface and thus if we repeat this process for each value of @xmath3 we obtain a well - behaved poisson bracket in the whole constraint surface @xcite .",
    "this imposed poisson bracket turns out to be uniquely given by the two properties : * 1 . *",
    "the imposed bracket between any two given dirac observables is determined by the kinematical bracket between any two corresponding weak dirac observables , and * 2 .",
    "* the imposed bracket between any dirac observable and the time function @xmath3 vanishes .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]",
    "to obtain a quantum description of a gravitational system , a choice of time function must be made .",
    "the understanding of the relation between quantum descriptions with different time functions is necessary if we are to have a reliable quantization procedure . in this article we made a first step toward this goal by proving a formal , as opposed to physical , canonical relation between different time - based canonical descriptions .",
    "we managed to separate results of the different choice of time function from results of inequivalent quantizations .",
    "this circumstance let us prove that spectra of quantized dynamical observables as well as semiclassical trajectories will depend on employed clocks .",
    "both facts were illustrated with clear examples . from these facts a few important , though rarely acknowledged , consequences follow .",
    "first of all , it is meaningless to talk about spectrum of any operator in quantum gravity unless one refers to a specific choice of time function . in this light ,",
    "spectra of the so called kinematical operators ( before the imposition of constraints ) are weak prognostics for the spectra of corresponding physical operators ( after the imposition of constraints ) .",
    "analogously , a semiclassical description must not be trusted as it is only one realization of multiple scenarios which come with _ any fixed _",
    "quantization of dirac observables .",
    "in particular , statements regarding maximal energy density or quantities of other physical dimensions at the moment of big bounce can not be meaningful without a reference to a specific time function . in the forthcoming article",
    ", we should determine the implication of the choice of time for specific quantum cosmological models .",
    "it seems that the theory of cosmological perturbations may provide an interesting setting for the multiple choice problem investigations .",
    "the particle production in the inflationary phase is successfully used to set the initial conditions for matter distribution in the early universe . however , it might also be possible to model the creation of primordial perturbations in a similar manner during the big bounce phase @xcite . for that purpose ,",
    "if the bounce is due to quantum gravity effects , one employs a framework , in which both the background metric and the cosmological perturbations are quantized .",
    "then the usual quantum theory on curved spacetimes is attained after a kind of semiclassical background geometry is assumed ( see e.g. @xcite ) . since the outcome of the whole process",
    "is induced by semiclassical background geometry , it must be choice - of - time - dependent . in effect",
    ", the cmb power spectra may provide some hints into the time problem in the early universe .",
    "let us comment on some related current works on the multiple choice problem",
    ". in @xcite authors develop an argument against the existence of a relation between the spectral properties of kinematical and some of the  corresponding \" physical observables .",
    "they emphasize the reduction of hilbert space through a constraint operator equation , which spoils the alleged relation .",
    "this interesting work thus provides a complementary viewpoint on the problem . in our setup",
    "we have no information on the initial kinematical phase space and the spectral properties of physical operators are shown to vary due to the lack of a god - given clock .",
    "we emphasize the lack of predetermined poisson structure in the constraint surface .",
    "the recent developments by m. bojowald and his collaborators @xcite are particularly interesting in the context of our results .",
    "their goal is a semiclassical description of totally constrained systems , which do not necessarily admit a global clock .",
    "their method consists of the dirac quantization followed by solving the semi - classical constraint with a local choice of clock .",
    "they find that the semiclassical evolution in different local clocks can be matched for all observables up to second order in basic variables ( higher orders are not investigated ) .",
    "this seemingly contradictory result may in fact be providing a complementary picture of what is going on at the level of semiclassical hamiltonian constraint and it should be very interesting to have a clear comparison of these two approaches .",
    "k. kuchar ,  the problem of time in canonical quantization of relativistic systems \" , in conceptual problems of quantum gravity , ed .",
    "a. ashtekar and j. stachel , based on the proceedings of the 1988 osgood hill conference ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> it is often conjectured that a choice of time function merely sets up a frame for the quantum evolution of gravitational field , meaning that all choices should be in some sense compatible . in order to explore this conjecture ( and the meaning of compatibility ) , we develop suitable tools for determining the relation between quantum theories based on different time functions . </S>",
    "<S> first , we discuss how a time function fixes a canonical structure on the constraint surface . </S>",
    "<S> the presentation includes both the kinematical and the reduced perspective , and the relation between them . </S>",
    "<S> second , we formulate twin theorems about the existence of two inequivalent maps between any two deparameterizations , a _ formal canonical _ and a _ coordinate _ one . </S>",
    "<S> they are used to separate the effects induced by choice of clock and other factors . </S>",
    "<S> we show , in an example , how the spectra of quantum observables are transformed under the change of clock and prove , via a general argument , the existence of choice - of - time - induced semiclassical effects . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we study an example , in which we find that the semiclassical discrepancies can in fact be arbitrarily large for dynamical observables . we conclude that the values of critical energy density or critical volume in the bouncing scenarios of quantum cosmology can not in general be at the planck scale and always need to be given with reference to a specific time function . </S>"
  ]
}