{
  "article_text": [
    "the effects of the local galaxy density , or environment , on galaxy evolution are still not well understood .",
    "it is known that galaxies in dense environments are deficient in neutral atomic hydrogen ( hi ) with respect to galaxies of the same morphological type and diameter as those in the field ( @xcite ) , and that they are also redder ( see @xcite for a review , and also @xcite ) .",
    "it is widely believed that the two effects are closely related , with the hi providing a reservoir of fuel for star formation , which when removed results in a quenching of star formation ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "understanding how the gas is lost , and any consequent effects on galaxy evolution , requires direct observations of the gas content of a large number of galaxies in different environments .",
    "hi is an excellent tracer of the effects of environment - being typically more extended than the stellar component by about a factor of 1.7 ( @xcite ) it is less gravitationally bound to the galaxy and therefore easier to remove . in certain circumstances , very long hi streams may be produced extending for tens or even hundreds of kiloparsecs ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "these offer direct evidence as to how the environment affects the gas content of galaxies , and in particular can indicate the cause of the gas removal .",
    "cluster environments , especially virgo , are well - studied , and there are many observational examples of galaxies which are undergoing gas stripping - in many cases clearly due to ram pressure ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "other examples are more controversial , with the 250 kpc hi plume extending from ngc 4254 being variously attributed to harassment ( @xcite ) and ram pressure stripping ( @xcite ) . moreover , while a few other very dramatic hi features are known in virgo ( e.g. the 500 kpc feature described in @xcite ) , these are relatively rare .",
    "@xcite convincingly argue that the formation of a 110 kpc hi feature ( associated with the gas - depleted spiral ngc 4388 ) in virgo results from ram pressure stripping  however , most gas - depleted spirals do not show such extended hi features ( e.g. @xcite , hereafter paper vi , also @xcite ) - despite the evidence from @xcite and @xcite that such features may be long - lived ( @xmath5 10@xmath6 yr ) .",
    "additionally , although relatively little work has been done to numerically simulate the formation of very long ( @xmath5 100 kpc ) streams via high - speed interactions , @xcite and @xcite suggest it may be possible .",
    "our understanding of the formation and survival of such features is therefore , at least in some cases , still incomplete .",
    "nonetheless , there has been significant progress in understanding the various mechanisms by which the gas may be lost , and the resulting effects on the star formation activity of the galaxies . @xcite",
    "describe the importance of mergers , harassment , starvation and ram pressure stripping as a function of clustercentric radius , based on observations , while more recently , @xcite simulate gas loss during infall .",
    "@xcite find that star formation efficiency is generally reduced by gas loss , and @xcite describe how the gas loss ( and consequent reduction in star formation ) may explain the observed morphology - density relation .",
    "overall , then , a model is now emerging where galaxies entering clusters lose gas ( primarily via ram pressure stripping ) ; due to the resulting quenching of star formation , this process may also explain the morphology - density relation .",
    "what is relatively less well - understood is the effect of the field environment on the galaxies prior to entering the cluster ( but for a detailed discussion of this `` pre - processing '' in groups , see @xcite ) , where galaxies may not only lose gas but also acquire more via accretion ( @xcite also claim that this may be possible on the periphery of clusters , see also @xcite ) . @xcite",
    "claim an hi bridge between m31 and m33 is an example of accretion in the local group ( see also @xcite for more recent observations and discussion ) . @xcite",
    "suggest accretion to explain a system of three void galaxies embedded in a common hi envelope , but these galaxies also show signs of interactions  it is not always straightforward to distinguish observationally between gas streams formed by gas removal from galaxies and by accretion .",
    "there is not yet a consensus as to how important gas accretion may be , but for a recent review see @xcite .",
    "these difficulties aside , the direct detection of hi streams can indicate when a galaxy is experiencing gas loss ( or accretion ) even when the mass of intergalactic gas is low compared to the galaxy itself ( e.g. @xcite describe a long stream from a galaxy which would not be regarded as hi deficient ) .",
    "this relies on having sensitive , large area , fully - sampled hi observations .",
    "two such surveys are presently ongoing at arecibo : the alfalfa ( arecibo l - band fast arecibo l - band feed array ) survey , and ages ( arecibo galaxy environment survey ) .",
    "alfalfa is a very large area survey , covering about 7,000 square degrees of the arecibo sky , to an _ rms _ of 2.2 mjy ( @xcite ) .",
    "ages adopts a different strategy , covering 16 selected areas , with a total area coverage of 200 square degrees ( @xcite , hereafter paper i ) .",
    "though much smaller than alfalfa , it is also much deeper , with a typical _ rms _ of 0.7 mjy , giving greater sensitivity to diffuse gas .",
    "each area selected for observation with ages has a primary target volume in the relatively nearby universe , typically with @xmath2 @xmath1 5,000 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "the survey also includes a large `` blind '' volume component in which we have no pre - selected targets .",
    "the full redshift range is -2,000 @xmath1 cz @xmath1 20,000 km  s@xmath3 ( for part of the field considered here , we also have some coverage out to @xmath2 = 45,000 km  s@xmath3 but we leave analysis of this higher - redshift region to a future paper ) .",
    "we previously reported ( @xcite , hereafter paper iv ) preliminary results focusing on one of our primary targets : the galaxy ngc 7448 and its associated group .",
    "this is a spiral galaxy whose extended hi component shows clear signs of interactions with several other nearby galaxies .",
    "paper iv dealt with our target region in detail , however only a very preliminary overview of the background volume was presented .",
    "the hi observations at that stage were not complete , and there was also only partial optical coverage with the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) at that time .    here",
    "we present our completed observations and catalogue for the entire region , together with optical photometry from the sdss . in particular , we report the serendipitous discovery of a large collection of hi streams detected in three distinct velocity regions in the background volume . in this paper",
    "we focus on the source catalogues and give an overview of the properties of the detections .",
    "our primary aim is to characterise the environment , and while we point out a few noteworthy examples of certain features , we leave a detailed analysis of the individual detections to future works .",
    "the rest of this paper is organised as follows . in section 2",
    "we describe the observations and data reduction , in section 3 we give details of our source extraction procedures , section 4 presents our catalogues , while the results of the analysis are described in section 5 and discussed in section 6 .",
    "our observation and data reduction procedures have been previously described in detail in paper i. we here give only a brief summary .",
    "observations of this field began in june 2008 and were completed in november 2011 , using the 7-beam alfa ( arecibo l - band feed array ) instrument on the arecibo telescope in spectral line mode .",
    "the field observed to full depth spans 5 degrees of r.a . by 4 degrees of declination centred on ngc 7448 . due to alfa s hexagonal beam arrangement , a small area outside this range",
    "is also included at a lower sensitivity .",
    "the full spatial range of the data considered here is from 22:49:00 to 23:10:50 in r.a , and from + 13:51:00 to + 18:06:00 in declination .",
    "observations are performed in drift scan mode , where the telescope is driven to the start of the scan position and the sky allowed to drift overhead .",
    "the alfa instrument is rotated before the start of each scan to give an equal space between the drift tracks of the 7 beams . at the start of each scan a signal from a high - temperature noise diode",
    "is injected for 5 seconds to provide flux calibration .",
    "at arecibo a point takes 12 seconds to cross the beam .",
    "scans are staggered by just under half the beam width ( 1.5@xmath7 ) so that each beam makes a nyquist - sampled map . with the 7 beams of alfa each point is scanned 25 times , giving a total integration time of 300 seconds per point ( the total integration time for the entire field is 160 hours ) .",
    "each beam records data from 2 polarisations every second over 4096 channels , which span a velocity range from approximately -2,000 km  s@xmath3 to + 20,000 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "the velocity resolution is equivalent to 5 km  s@xmath3 , or 10 km  s@xmath3 after hanning smoothing to remove gibbs ringing from the milky way and other bright sources such as rfi ( see below ) .",
    "the data are reduced using the aips++ packages livedata ( using pksreader v19.40 , pksbandpass v19.54 , and pkswriter v19.20 ) and gridzilla ( using pksgridzilla v19.50 ; for a full description see @xcite ) , developed by the australia telescope national facility ( atnf ) .",
    "livedata is used to estimate and remove the bandpass and calibrate the resultant spectra ; gridzilla co - adds the data to produce the final 3d data cubes .",
    "our data are gridded into 1@xmath7 pixels ( the arecibo beam has a fwhm of 3.5@xmath7 at this wavelength ) with a channel width of 5 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "the bandpass across the scan is estimated by the median of the data values , which is robust to bright point sources but can give incorrect values in the vicinity of bright extended sources .",
    "the data are analysed using the miriad task _",
    "mbspect_.    from the miriad task _ imstat _ , the median noise level - _ rms _ - reached is approximately 0.7 mjy / beam ( after hanning smoothing ) . as a sensitivity limit , a 5@xmath8 detection with a tophat profile and 50 km  s@xmath3 velocity width , at an _",
    "rms _ of 0.7 mjy , would have an hi mass of 4.1@xmath010@xmath9 m@xmath10 @xmath11 where @xmath12 is the distance in mpc .",
    "follow - up observations were performed using the single - pixel l - wide receiver .",
    "this uses the position - switching method , with the on and off source times each of 5 minutes .",
    "the data were quickly reduced and additional observations taken if required .",
    "we used the wapps ( wideband arecibo pulsar processors ) with 9-level sampling and 1 polarization per board , giving 4096 channels .",
    "we used two bandwidth settings , 50 mhz ( giving a velocity resolution of 1.25 km  s@xmath3 ) and 25 mhz ( 0.63 km  s@xmath3 resolution ) .",
    "the bandwidth was adjusted to be centred on the velocity of the purported source , allowing us to easily stack the observations for greater sensitivity if necessary .",
    "the follow - up observations were performed on all of the 127 point sources we considered uncertain ( see section [ sec : analysis ] ) .",
    "these observations typically required 5 minutes on - source .",
    "additionally , we identified extended hi features associated with around 24% of our detections ( see section [ sec : streams ] ) . to be certain that these were real , we obtained follow - up observations of 10 of these features .",
    "these were selected to be among the most extended features detected , ensuring that our pointings would not be affected by sidelobe contamination from their associated galaxies , and also the weakest ( thus if these are detected then the stronger features should all be real ) . to securely confirm the status of the observed targets , for these observations we spent 10 - 20 minutes on - source .",
    "our previous observations of this area , described in paper iv , covered an area of 5.0@xmath02.5 square degrees ( of which only 5@xmath02 degrees were to full depth ) .",
    "our completed observations , described here , cover a significantly larger 5@xmath04 square degrees ( entirely to full depth ) .",
    "we also apply an additional baseline correction which significantly improves the quality of the data returned by livedata .",
    "our procedure is to fit and subtract a sigma - clipped second - order polynomial to the data cube , which greatly improves the quality of the data where livedata has problems removing the baseline curvature caused by continuum sources ( see figure [ fig : baselines ] ) . the larger area , greater sensitivity , better data processing , and improvements to our source extraction ( see next section ) has resulted in a 90% increase in the number of hi detections in the whole field ( or 38% in the area which overlaps the area described in paper iv , after accounting for follow - up ) .",
    "we note that over the velocity ranges 8,300 - 8,800 km  s@xmath3 and 15,400 - 15,900 km  s@xmath3 , sensitivity is greatly reduced owing to rfi from satellites transmitting at the l3 frequency , and the punta del este faa radar , respectively .",
    "our survey is not designed to cope with the extremely bright extended emission from the milky way , so we are effectively non - sensitive over the velocity range -100 @xmath1 @xmath2 @xmath1 + 100 km  s@xmath3 . in this paper",
    "we restrict our analysis to extragalactic sources .",
    "we use a combination of visual extraction and an automated algorithm , glados ( galaxy line analysis for detection of sources ) .",
    "this is fully described in @xcite , hereafter paper v. in brief , it is a signal - to - noise ( s / n ) based extractor which was specifically designed for ages data . each spectrum is searched for s / n values exceeding a user - specified threshold ( 4@xmath8 ) , and the corresponding individual polarisations are also searched . additionally , to minimise the chance of single - channel spikes in the noise from being detected , the candidate detections must have a minimum velocity width ( 25 km  s@xmath3 ) .",
    "for full details we refer the reader to paper v.    it is , however , a mistake to describe many source extraction ( e.g. glados , duchamp , polyfind - see paper vi for details ) as automatic .",
    "the major problem is that the reliability of their detections is ( except at very high s / n levels ) much too low to accept their catalogues at face value . for example",
    "the reliability of glados is approximately 16% at the 4@xmath8 level , whereas duchamp is closer to 7% using our data , as we demonstrated in paper vi .",
    "the need for a human to first remove any spurious detections from these catalogues means that they are really only semi - automatic .    in comparison , humans are far better able to distinguish between rfi and real sources than some algorithms ( see paper vi for a detailed comparison ) , but suffer from subjectivity and are massively slower than most programs ( typically , minutes for an algorithm but days or weeks for a human ) .",
    "we here present a new fits viewer specifically developed to assist in visual source extraction of hi data cubes ( frelled : fits realtime explorer of low latency in every dimension ) .",
    "we estimate that this has increased visual source extraction speed by a factor @xmath450 .",
    "details are given in appendix [ sec : apsource ] .",
    "the source code is available through our website : www.naic.edu/@xmath4ages .",
    "we searched the ngc 7448 data cube using both _",
    "kvis _ and frelled and found that both methods give the same completeness and reliability .",
    "one of us ( hh ) searched the cube using _ kvis _ , while another ( rt ) searched with our new viewer .",
    "hh found 20 sources that rt did not , and rt found 18 sources that hh did not .",
    "such differences are inevitable given the subjective nature of the procedure ; however , rt was able to complete the process in a day , whereas hh required approximately six weeks .",
    "we use both visual and automated routines to search the entirety of this data set , excepting the regions affected by rfi where glados is not able to search .",
    "our aim was to detect as many real sources as possible in the whole volume .",
    "the source extraction techniques described in section [ sec : sex ] resulted in an initial catalogue of 425 sources .",
    "127 of these were considered uncertain due to their low s / n level , their detection by only one method or observer , or their lack of optical counterpart ( see section [ sec : ocs ] ) .",
    "we obtained l - wide follow - up observations for all of these .",
    "51 were found to be real and 76 spurious ( with observations at the same sensitivity or greater , there is no detection to 3@xmath8 ) .",
    "this leaves us with a final sample of 334 objects ( a sample is shown in table [ tab : hi ] - the full table is available online ) .",
    "note that in this study we do not include any of the galaxies found within the extensive hi envelope associated with ngc 7448 , as we have discussed this complex region in paper iv .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     secondly there are cases where the hi shows extensions which are significantly larger than the associated detected galaxy , were not detected as separate objects in their own right ( usually because they are too faint ) but _ may _ be associated with faint optical sources ( code ` e ' in table [ tab : streams ] ) .",
    "these features have several possible origins - are they simply gas - rich satellites ( possibly fuelling their larger companions - see @xcite for a review ) or does the optical emission result from star formation within streams ( e.g. tidal dwarf galaxies or interaction remnants ) ?    thirdly , other extended features really appear to be occupy intergalactic space with no optical component - either as streams with only one end terminating at the position of an optically bright galaxy , ( code ` s ' in table [ tab : streams ] ) or bridges between optical galaxies which are well - separated ( code ` b ' in table [ tab : streams ] ) . in some cases of individual galaxies or galaxy pairs , the extended emission is huge , as much as 800 kpc in length ( see figure [ fig:252map ] ) , measuring from the optical centres of the component galaxies .",
    "these detections are sufficiently extended that we can accurately determine the hi content of the streams , allowing us to estimate how much damage the interactions between the galaxies has done ( see section [ sec : streammass ] ) .        in paper",
    "iv we described the hi envelope associated with the ngc 7448 group .",
    "we estimated the mass of this feature by extracting a subset data cube containing the group and examining its flux value distribution .",
    "the negative flux ( and low values of positive flux ) values followed a gaussian distribution , which we were able to fit and subtract to estimate the excess present .",
    "we measured the total flux ( by summing the flux values in each pixel and correcting for the beam shape ) and subtracted our measurement of the total flux in the galaxies ( i.e. our point - source measurements ) to estimate the gas content of the extended hi streams .",
    "ages data are ordinarily gridded into 1square pixels , whereas the beam is in reality circular with a 3.5diameter , so the pixels are not independent .",
    "this makes it important to correct for the beam shape .",
    "previously we made the assumption that the beam has a tophat profile , with the beam volume therefore given by : @xmath13 however , a better approximation is to assume a gaussian shape for the beam ( real sources have radial profiles which are indeed gaussian ) . in this case",
    "we must correct for the volume of the gaussian : @xmath14 where we assume that the beam is circular with @xmath8 relating to the fwhm by the relation : @xmath15 this correction reduces the measured flux by a factor of @xmath161.44 compared to using a tophat beam shape .",
    "we emphasise that this result only changes our result from paper iv regarding extended emission ; our analysis of point sources ( using _ mbspect _ ) is not affected .      to further increase the accuracy of our extended flux estimate ,",
    "it is also important to correct for the bandpass across the scan .",
    "ordinarily the bandpass is corrected by subtracting the median of the scan .",
    "while the median is far more robust to a small number of outliers ( such as a bright unresolved galaxy ) than the mean , it can be significantly affected by bright extended emission .",
    "this results in strong negative ` shadows ' either side ( in the scan direction , in our case right ascension - see @xcite , hereafter paper iii , for an example ) of bright extended sources , since here the flux along the whole scan will be over - subtracted .    in paper iii",
    "we applied the `` minmed '' bandpass estimator ( @xcite ) to prevent over - subtraction of the bandpass .",
    "this splits the scan into 5 segments , finds the median of each and subtracts the minimum of the medians from the entire scan .",
    "the `` medmed '' estimator is very similar , but uses the median of medians instead .",
    "we use both of these estimators ( separately ) but apply them to the reduced cube . since the _ rms _ does not vary between regions affected and unaffected by bandpass over - subtraction , this approach should yield essentially the same results as if done as part of the data reduction process .",
    "we find that neither minmed nor medmed make a significant difference to the flux estimates of the individual galaxies in the ngc 7448 hi complex ( @xmath1 5% ) , however , the choice of which estimator to use dramatically alters the estimate of the extended hi : applying the gaussian beam correction described above , we find a total flux of 201 jy km  s@xmath3 using the median , 232 jy km  s@xmath3 using medmed , and 315 jy km  s@xmath3 using minmed .",
    "minmed suffers from using a much smaller part of the bandpass and generates visible differences in the bandpasses from channel to channel .",
    "we therefore use only the medmed estimator in our analysis .      in paper",
    "iv we estimated that within the ngc 7448 group the gas content of the streams exceeds that of the galaxies by a factor of 2.5 .",
    "re - analysing the data with the above improvements reduces this to a factor of 1.6 .",
    "this is in very good agreement with the earlier result of a factor of 1.5 found by @xcite , which also further supports our choice to use the medmed rather than minmed estimator .",
    "we repeat this analysis for the streams we detect in the background volume .",
    "we restrict this to cases where there is a clear hi bridge between two well - separated ( @xmath5 7@xmath17 between centres ) detections where each shows a single clear optical counterpart .",
    "objects with disturbed hi where we can not readily identify a plausible cause of the disturbance are ignored - in these cases we can not determine the gas content of the source galaxies for comparison . where we identify multiple galaxies linked by hi bridges , we create sub - cubes large enough to contain the entire system .",
    "we create a total of 15 subset cubes , containing 53 galaxies .",
    "continuum sources , where present , are masked .",
    "there is a great deal of variation in the gas content external to galaxies , ranging from 10 - 60% of the total gas content of each system ( mean of 34% with a standard deviation of 13% ) . in the ngc 7448 group about 60% of the total gas",
    "is external to the galaxies , which is high relative to most of the other systems examined but not exceptionally so .",
    "hi deficiency is a measure of how much gas a galaxy has lost compared to a field galaxy of similar morphology and optical diameter , and is defined as : @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the hi deficiency , @xmath20 is the hi mass of the reference galaxy , and @xmath21 is the hi mass of the observed galaxy . a galaxy which has lost 60% of its gas would have a deficiency of 0.4  which , owing to the intrinsic scatter of the hi content of isolated galaxies , would at most be described as borderline deficient . therefore deficiency measurements can not help establish if the gas in the observed streams originated within the galaxies , or shows ongoing accretion . for this reason we do not include deficiency measurements in our analysis .",
    "we identify three overdensities ( by eye ) ranging in velocity from 7,000 - 8,200 km  s@xmath3 , 9,000 - 11,200 km  s@xmath3 and 11,200 - 12,600 km  s@xmath3 ( a close - up wedge diagram is shown in figure [ fig : zoomwedge ] ) .",
    "we will refer to these associations as populations a , b and c respectively .        to give a physically meaningful estimate of the velocity dispersion within each population , it is important to account for the large - scale velocity gradient and sub - structures which are present .",
    "we use the idl task _ sfit _ to fit and subtract a velocity surface from the galaxies , analysing each population separately . for population a galaxies",
    "this gives velocity dispersion of 172 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "the presence of substructure in the b and c populations is a significant complication .",
    "population b galaxies show some evidence of a bifurcation in the west , with one part extending into population c and another terminating at 10,000 km  s@xmath3 ( perhaps extending further beyond the spatial edge of the cube ) . within population c , there is a dearth of galaxies from 11,700 - 11,900 km  s@xmath3 , and the population from 11,900 - 13,000 km  s@xmath3 is much denser in the western half of the cube compared to the eastern half ( 31 detections in the west compared with 4 in the east ) .    to try to account for the substructure in population b",
    ", we consider two sub - samples .",
    "one includes the galaxies at higher velocities ( which merge into population c ) and excludes those at lower velocities in the western part of the cube ( the choice of which to include and exclude is , admittedly , very subjective ) , while the other includes only the lower - velocity galaxies .",
    "the first sample gives a velocity dispersion of 238 km  s@xmath3 while the second gives 261 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "similarly , fitting a surface to the whole of population c gives a velocity dispersion of 435 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "if we consider population c to contain two separate populations ( one from 11,100 - 11,700 km  s@xmath3 , the other from 11,800 - 12,700 km  s@xmath3 ) and subtract a separate velocity surface from each , then we find much lower velocity dispersions of 144 and 138 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "these velocity dispersion estimates indicate that the hi streams we detect could arise from low velocity interactions , despite the high velocity range each population spans .",
    "we attempt to estimate the distribution of relative velocities between interacting galaxies .",
    "we restrict this analysis to cases where there is a clear hi bridge between two well - separated ( @xmath5 7@xmath17 between centres ) detections where each shows a single clear optical counterpart .",
    "objects with disturbed hi where we can not readily identify a plausible cause of the disturbance are ignored .",
    "the resulting distribution of relative velocities is shown in figure [ fig : relvels ] .",
    "the mean relative velocities of the interactors in the sample is 170 km  s@xmath3 , with a standard deviation of the sample of 185 km  s@xmath3 .",
    "there is a clear bias toward low relative velocities .",
    "potentially this could indicate a selection bias due to the techniques used to reveal the streams , but we do not believe this is the case . both integrated flux maps and renzograms should reveal if the hi is disturbed in each of our detections , regardless of whether there is an extended feature extending over a significant velocity range .",
    "an important caveat is that since we have deliberately avoided cases where we can not identify both interactors , we may be avoiding high velocity interaction systems where one of the objects is no longer near the disturbed system .",
    "we show the major optical properties of our sample in figure [ fig : scales ] . in figure",
    "[ fig : scales ] ( a ) we compare the colour - magnitude diagram for this sample with those galaxies detected in and behind the virgo cluster ( see paper v ) .",
    "galaxies behind ngc 7448 do not appear to be significantly redder than those detected behind the virgo cluster .",
    "a two - dimensional k - s test finds that the populations are different but only at the 2.0@xmath8 level .",
    "in contrast the galaxies within the virgo cluster itself are clearly redder ( at a 7@xmath8 level from the two - dimensional k - s test ) .",
    "figure [ fig : scales ] ( b ) shows the variation in m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio as a function of absolute magnitude .",
    "again the galaxies in this sample follow the same trend as the galaxies in the less dense environment behind virgo , whereas the virgo cluster galaxies clearly show a markedly lower m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio .",
    "we show the sensitivity limit at 160 mpc ( corresponding to the overdensity at @xmath411,400 km  s@xmath3 ) .",
    "figure [ fig : scales ] ( c ) compares the variation in m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio as a function of @xmath24-@xmath25 colour .",
    "once again we find a good agreement between this and the virgo background sample ( the k - s test finds the populations are different at only a 2.2@xmath8 level ) . despite the density difference , and the abundance of extended hi features in the 7448 background sample , the two populations are very similar in both their gas contents , colour , and variations of those parameters .",
    "since there are few existing morphological classifications of the galaxies in this sample , we attempt a rudimentary classification ourselves .",
    "we divide the sample into spirals , irregular , early - types , mergers and peculiars , and those without an obvious classification .",
    "this is done purely on the basis of a visual inspection of morphology .",
    "though crude , this approach does offer some insights .",
    "we show the colour - magnitude , magnitude - gas content , and colour - gas content diagrams with morphological differentiation in figure [ fig : morphs ] .",
    "the irregulars and spirals define two different but overlapping populations .",
    "as we should expect , the spirals are brighter and somewhat less gas - rich than the smaller irregulars .",
    "the early - type galaxies are ( as expected ) generally redder and brighter than the late - types , but they are not always gas poor .    of the nine objects we classify as mergers or peculiars , six are very blue relative to other detections of similar luminosity , while the other three are relatively red .",
    "there is no obvious correlation between their luminosity and m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio , however , the six which are relatively blue given their luminosity are also blue compared to galaxies of similar m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio",
    ".    the low number of peculiar and merging galaxies may seem surprising given the abundance of interactions and density of the environment .",
    "it is worth re - emphasising that we have deliberately excluded objects with multiple possible counterparts .",
    "one system in particular exemplifies the complexity of the problems when dealing with such cases .",
    "af7448_202 is centred on a group of three objects , one of which appears to be a previously undiscovered ring galaxy .",
    "the hi may be extended to another optically disturbed galaxy ( af7448_204 ) about 8@xmath17 ( 370 kpc at 160 mpc distance ) away , however , this is difficult to assess .",
    "the galaxies in figure [ fig:252map ] are easy to remove to form the residual map as they are relatively faint and well - separated ; here , however , the af7448_202 complex is bright and extended .",
    "we use a 3.5@xmath17 fwhm gaussian for af744_204 , centred on its optical coordinates , and fit a non - circular gaussian ( 4.3 x 4.8@xmath17 , position angle 69@xmath26 measured north through east ) using the miriad task _ imfit _ for af7448_202 .",
    "another nearby source , af7448_193 ( 16@xmath17 or 760 kpc in projected distance ) , is an early - type galaxy which shows a possible north - south extension , but it is unclear if this relates to the af7448_202 complex .",
    "four of the nine galaxies we identify as peculiar or mergers show evidence of extended hi emission , but of those , in three cases the hi components overlap those of other galaxies .",
    "only one shows unequivocal evidence of hi extended into intergalactic space ",
    "af7448_085 , which we identify as ugc12342 .",
    "this is a spectacular merger but does not ( from a ned search ) appear to have any previous hi mapping .",
    "we will discuss this in detail in a future paper , but for now we only note that we detect hi emission extending over 13@xmath17 ( about 450 kpc in projected extent ) .",
    "the objects which we are unable to classify are most likely late - type galaxies , as evidenced by their blue colours , but their small angular size ( typically @xmath1 0.3@xmath17 ) makes it difficult to identify any spiral , irregular or other structures .",
    "the early - type galaxies are , as expected , amongst the reddest objects in the sample .",
    "there is no clear correlation between their m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio and luminosity , however , all are relatively gas rich compared to late - type objects of similar colour .",
    "in contrast , the optically bright early - types we detected in hi in the virgo cluster ( paper v ) were all gas poor .",
    "this suggests that the origin of the gas in early - types may vary between the cluster and field population , and is also consistent with the idea that some of the virgo s0s may be spiral galaxies which have lost nearly all of their original gas content .",
    "one notable example is af7448_073 , which we identify as cgcg 453 - 069 .",
    "with m@xmath23 = -20.4 and @xmath24-@xmath25 = 1.4 , this is one of the brightest and reddest objects in our sample .",
    "unfortunately at this luminosity the blue and red sequences are indistinguishable , but morphologically there is no doubt that this is an early - type object .",
    "surprisingly , its m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio of 0.2 is not particularly low given its luminosity .",
    "it seems unlikely that objects like this could acquire such large amounts of gas ( the total hi content is 6.1@xmath010@xmath27 m@xmath10 ) without triggering star formation .",
    "it is equally unlikely that the gas could remain stable against star formation in an environment such as this .",
    "a ned search finds 58 galaxies with optical redshift data available in this region ( with @xmath2 @xmath1 20,000 km  s@xmath3 ) and no previous hi measurements .",
    "however 19 of these are in such close proximity to hi detections that we can not rule out their ( at least partial ) contribution to some of our sources .",
    "this leaves a sample of 39 .",
    "we examine the hi spectra for each of these from our data cube , confirming that these are indeed non - detections and not just missed by our source extraction procedures .",
    "we classify 24 of these as early - type galaxies , 8 as spirals and 7 unknown .",
    "the non - detection of these galaxies is unsurprising .",
    "their varying distances give them hi sensitivity limits ranging from 1@xmath010@xmath27 m@xmath10 to 1@xmath010@xmath28 m@xmath10 .",
    "m@xmath22/l@xmath23 ratio sensitivity limits range from 0.3 to 2.2 , which would be entirely consistent with other objects of their luminosity .",
    "an hi mass even slightly lower than normal ( which would still be well within the observed scatter ) would render them undetectable .",
    "we have described an environment dominated by extragalactic filaments with a high galaxy density .",
    "as many as 79 galaxies ( in 34 separate structures ) show signs of extended hi emission",
    ". approximately half of these may be merely the result of source confusion due to the high galaxy density in this region .",
    "another third are more ambiguous cases where the extension may result from faint companion galaxies ( though lack of optical redshift data prevents us from determining if these are really associated with the extension ) .",
    "the remaining cases extend at least one beam width into intergalactic space with no plausible optical counterparts visible in the sdss .",
    "several of the galaxies with possible extensions are obvious ongoing mergers , but most are relatively normal galaxies .",
    "unlike galaxies in clusters , the galaxies here do not have measurably different colours or gas contents compared to those in less dense environments .",
    "the prevalence of extended features does not appear to relate to any abnormal trends within the sample .",
    "the galaxies here have , however , also lost much less gas than in environments like virgo , where galaxies are clearly redder than in the field ( see paper v , for example ) .",
    "we find that galaxies generally have low relative velocities ( @xmath1 200 km  s@xmath3 ) in systems where extended hi is detected .",
    "this is consistent with the velocity dispersion of the large - scale structures , after subtracting their overall velocity gradients .",
    "the amount of extended gas is in some cases comparable to ( but rarely exceeds ) the amount detected within its presumed progenitor galaxies and is often only a small fraction ( @xmath1 20% ) of the total gas in the system .    of the nine mergers we identified ,",
    "six are very blue given their luminosity and gas content , perhaps suggesting merger - triggered star formation .",
    "in contrast , gas - rich ( @xmath510@xmath27 m@xmath10 ) elliptical objects with disturbed hi components suggest that neither accretion of gas nor tidal interactions necessarily _ always _ trigger star formation - the gas can remain stable against it .",
    "yet we detect not a single case of hi where it is not clearly associated with an optical component .",
    "the hi streams invariably terminate in an optical galaxy ( at least at one end and sometimes both ) .",
    "accretion of gas from the intergalactic medium could explain how the local star formation rate has remained constant over the lifetime of the milky way ( @xcite ) despite the fact that at the present rate the gas should be exhausted within much less than a hubble time ( @xcite ) .",
    "accretion may be a more logical explanation for the chains of galaxies with possible links by multiple hi streams that we detect here ( see [ fig : mommap1]-[fig : mommap3 ] ) than tidal interactions - in this scenario , the filamentary substructures we see would result from the gas tracing the underlying cdm structure .",
    "distinguishing between accretion and removal of gas is not straightforward .",
    "the quantities of intergalactic gas are in many cases relatively low compared to the intragalactic hi - so we expect the effects of gas removal to be subtle . there are , however , several galaxies in which the case for a recent merger is unequivocal ( ugc12342 being the prime example ) which show clear differences in their optical properties .",
    "furthermore , the high density and low relative velocities of many galaxies strongly suggests that tidal interactions _ must _ be occurring , regardless of any other process which may be at work .",
    "one signature feature resulting from accretion is the presence of extra - planar gas , since it is much easier if the interaction occurs in the plane of rotation .",
    "some of our detections do show evidence of extended emission outside the plane of the disc ( see figure [ fig : ring ] , for example ) .",
    "this suggests several different processes are at work in this environment , possibly with accretion and gas removal occurring simultaneously .",
    "the large variation in the relative proportions of gas in the streams compared to the galaxies also exemplifies that understanding the processes occurring is not straightforward .",
    "it appears we are dealing with an environment where there are many individually unusual systems , but few common trends between them .",
    "there are clearly many tidal interactions occurring , but few mergers .",
    "there is a significant amount of intergalactic hi , which has often been regarded as the eventual source of the hot x - ray gas found in galaxy clusters .",
    "the low velocity dispersion of the large - scale structures seen here make it unlikely that we are witnessing the formation of a cluster .",
    "certainly , however , we see that there is significant gas loss and even morphological evolution within some of the galaxy systems detected , and this pre - processing is often regarded as an important part of cluster evolution ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the galaxies in this study may not be demonstrating preprocessing directly - there is no suggestion they will ever form a cluster - but they do show that evolution in the field can be important .",
    "this work is based on observations collected at arecibo observatory .",
    "the arecibo observatory is operated by sri international under a cooperative agreement with the national science foundation ( ast-1100968 ) , and in alliance with ana g. mndez ",
    "universidad metropolitana , and the universities space research association .",
    "this work was supported by the project rvo:67985815 .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "this work has made use of the sdss .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.    the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "sanchez almeida j. , elmegreen b. g. , munoz - tunon c. , elmegreen d. m. , 2014 , a&arev , in press auld r. , minchin r. f. , davies j. i. , catinella b. , van driel w. , henning p. a. , linder s. , momjian e. , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 371 , 1617 barnes d. g. , staveley - smith l. , de blok w. j. g. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , mnras , 322 , 486 bekki k. , koribalski b. s. , kilborn v. a. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 21 beygu b. , kreckel k. , van de weygaert r. , van der hulst j. m. , van gorkom j. h. , 2013 , aj , 145 , 120 binney j. , dehnen w. , bertelli g. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , 658 boselli , a. , gavazzi , g. , 2006 , pasp , 118 , 517 braun r. , thilker d. a. , 2004 , a&a , 417 , 421 cen r. , pop a. x. , bahcall n. a. , pnas , in press duc p. a. , bournaud f. , 2008 , apj , 673 , 787 chung a. , van gorkom j. h. , kenney j. d. p. , vollmer , b. , 2007 , apj , 659 , 115 cortese l. , minchin r. f. , auld r. r. , davies j. i. , catinella b. , momjian e. , rosenberg j. l. , taylor , r. ; et al . , 2008 , mnras , 383 , 1519 cortese l. , catinella b. , boissier s. , boselli a. , heinis s. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 1797 davies j. i. , auld r. , burns , l. , minchin r. , momjian e. , schneider s. , smith m. , taylor r. , van driel w. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 1883 giovanelli r. , haynes m. p. , kent b. r. , perillat , p. , catinella , b. , hoffman , g.l . , momjian , e. , rosenberg , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "aj , 130 , 2613 gooch r.e . ,",
    "1996 , astronomical data analysis software and systems v , asp conf .",
    "series vol . 101 , ed .",
    "jacoby & j. barnes , asp , san francisco , 80 gooch r.e . , 1996 , pasp , 14 , 106 hallenbeck g. , papastergis e. , huang s. , haynes m. p. , giovanelli r. , boselli a. , boissier s. , heinis s. , et al .",
    ", 2012 , aj , 144 , 87 haynes m. p. , giovanelli r. , 1984 , aj , 89 , 7 haynes m. p. , giovanelli r.",
    ", kent b. r. , 2007 , apj , 665 , 19 kennicutt r. c. , 1983 , apj , 272 , 54 kent b. r. , spekkens k. , giovanelli r. , haynes m. p. , momjian e. ; corts j. r. , hardy e. , west a. a. , 2009 , apj , 691 , 1595 kent b. r. , 2013 , pasp , 125 , 731 koopmann r. a. , giovanelli r. , haynes m. p. , et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 682 , l85 koribalski b. s. , staveley - smith l. , kilborn v. a. , ryder s. d. , kraan - korteweg r. c. , ryan - weber e. v. , ekers r. d. , jerjen h. , 2004 , apj , 128 , 16 minchin r. , davies j. i. , disney m. , grossi m. , sabatini s. , boyce p. , garcia d. , impey c. , jordan c. , lang r. , marble a. , roberts s. , van driel w. , 2007 , apj , 670 , 1056 minchin r. f. , momjian e. , auld r. , davies j. i. , valls - gabaud d. , karachentsev i. d. , henning p. a. , oneil k. l. , et al . , 2010 , mnras , 140 , 1093 oosterloo t. , van gorkom j. , 2005 , a&a , 437 , 19 putman m. e. , de heij v. , staveley - smith l. , braun r. , freeman k. c. , gibson b. k. , burton w. b. , barnes d. g. , et al . , 2002 , aj , 123 , 873 sancisi r. , fraternali f. , oosterloo t. , van der hulst t. , 2008 , a&arv , 15 , 189 schlafly , e. f. , finkbeiner , d. p. , 2011",
    ", apj , 737 , 103 swaters , r. a. , van albada , t. s. , van der hulst , j. m. , sancisi , r. , 2002 , a&a , 390 , 829 taylor , rh .",
    ", phd thesis , 2010 , department of physics and astronomy , cardiff university , 5 the parade , cardiff , glamorgan , cf24 3yb , wales , u.k .",
    "taylor rh . , auld r. , davies j. i. , minchin r. f. , 2012 , mnras , 423 , 787 taylor , rh . , davies , j. i. , auld , r. , minchin , r. f. , smith , r. , 2013 , mnras , 428 , 459 taylor , rh . ; minchin , r. f. ; herbst , h. ; smith , r. , 2014 , mnras , 442 , 46 treu t. , ellis r. s. , kneib j. , dressler a. , smail i. ; czoske o. , oemler a. , natarajan p. , 2003",
    ", apj , 591 , 53 van driel w. , augarde r. , bottinelli l. , gouguenheim l. , hamabe m. , maehara h. , baan w. a. , goudfrooij p. , groenewegen m. a. t. , 1992 , a&a , 259 , 71 vollmer b. , cayatte v. , balkowski c. , duschl w. j. , 2001 , apj , 561 , 708 vollmer b. , wong o. i. , braine j. , chung a. , kenney j. d. p. , 2012",
    ", a&a , 543 , 33 van der wel a. , bell e. f. , holden b. p. , skibba r. a. , rix h. , 2010 , apj , 714 , 1779 wolfe s. a. , pisano d. j. , lockman f. j. , mcgaugh s. s. , shaya e. j. , 2013 , nature , 497 , 224 yoon j. h. , putman m. e. , thom c. , chen h. , bryan g. l. , 2012 , apj , 754 , 84",
    "there are two key features to frelled which allow for much more rapid visual source extraction than was previously possible .",
    "the first is the ability for the user to freely rotate the view of a data cube , exploring its true 3-dimensional structure , in realtime .",
    "other viewers , such as ds9 ( v. 7.2 ) , require a substantial delay ( tens of seconds ) between rotation and the view updating , with ours the view is updated instantaneously as the viewpoint is altered ( the older _ xray _ ( @xcite ) program is much faster than ds9 , but has a more complex interface and no facilities to aid in source cataloguing ) , hence its name .    the second feature is the ability of the user to mask sources interactively .",
    "these 3d masks can be named by the user for easy re - location and analysis .",
    "they also allow the user to generate input parameters for _ mbspect _ ( see section [ sec : analysis ] ) , create moment maps , and query ned and the sdss .",
    "frelled is written as a series of python scripts for the graphics suite , `` blender '' , and the source code is available on our website ( www.naic.edu/@xmath4ages ) . for a thorough review of blender for astronomers ,",
    "see @xcite .",
    "viewing ages data in 3d can be problematic since the noise level is much higher at the spatial edges of the cube , where sensitivity is lower .",
    "this means that there is a much greater range of flux values for pixels in these regions compared to those in the fully - sampled area .",
    "using a fixed intensity range based on flux causes the much brighter pixels at the edges to block the view of the interior of the cube . to avoid removing these regions altogether , we recast the cube from flux to s / n .",
    "we divide the flux value of each pixel by the sigma - clipped _",
    "rms _ estimated along the spectrum containing it . since the noise is still gaussian in the regions of higher",
    "_ rms _ , the s / n range is the same as in any other region of the cube .",
    "the results are shown in figure [ fig : fluxsn ] .",
    "+    converting the cube into s / n obviously renders the pixel values unphysical .",
    "it is also more difficult to display faint features in this way .",
    "the pixel colour is calculated by summing the values along the line of sight ( equivalent to moment 0 ) , so faint features tend to be overwhelmed when there is significant variation in the noise . calculating the colour based on the maximum value along the line of sight ( moment -2 ) would be better , but would still not help for the faintest detectable features . instead we also use a 2d variant of frelled , in which we can view individual slices of the cube in a style similar to _ kvis _ ( @xcite ) .",
    "our source extraction is thus a two - stage process : first , we search a 3d version of the cube where we can very quickly mask the bright sources , then , we import these masks into the 2d viewer and search more carefully for fainter sources .",
    "[ lastpage ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present completed observations of the ngc 7448 galaxy group and background volume as part of the blind neutral hydrogen arecibo galaxy environment survey ( ages ) . </S>",
    "<S> our observations cover a region spanning 5@xmath04 degrees , over a redshift range of approximately -2,000 @xmath1 @xmath2 @xmath1 20,000 km  s@xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> a total of 334 objects are detected , mostly in three overdensities at @xmath2 @xmath47,500 , @xmath2 @xmath49,600 and @xmath2 @xmath4 11,400 km  s@xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> the galaxy density is extremely high ( 15 per square degree ) and many ( @xmath424% ) show signs of extended hi emission , including some features as much as 800 kpc in projected length . </S>",
    "<S> we describe the overall characteristics of this environment : kinematics , typical galaxy colours and mass to light ratios , and substructure . to aid in the cataloguing of this data set , we present a new fits viewer ( frelled : fits realtime explorer of low latency in every dimension ) . </S>",
    "<S> this incorporates interactive source cataloguing tools which increase our source extraction speed by approximately a factor of 50 .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution - surveys : galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}