{
  "article_text": [
    "keyword extraction is an important task in the domain of the semantic web development .",
    "it is a problem of automatic identification of the important terms or phrases in text documents .",
    "it may have numerous applications : information retrieval , automatic indexing , text summarization , semantic description and classification , etc . in the case of web documents",
    "it is a very demanding task : it requires extraction of keywords from web pages that are typically noisy , overburden with information irrelevant to the main topic ( navigational information , comments , future announces , etc . ) and they usually contain several topics @xcite .",
    "therefore , in keyword extraction from web pages we are dealing with noisy and multitopic datasets .",
    "various approaches have been proposed for keywords and keyphrases identification ( extraction ) task .",
    "there are two main classes of approaches : supervised and unsupervised .",
    "supervised approaches are based on using machine learning techniques on the manually annotated data @xcite",
    ". therefore supervised approaches are time consuming and expensive .",
    "unsupervised approaches may include clustering @xcite , language modelling @xcite and graph - based approaches .",
    "unsupervised approaches may also require different sets of external data , however these approaches are not depended on manual annotation .",
    "these approaches are more robust , but usually less precise @xcite .",
    "a class of graph - based keyword extraction algorithms overcome some of these problems . in graph - based or network - based approaches",
    "the text is represented as a network in a way that words are represented as nodes and links are established between two nodes if they are co - occurring within the sentence .",
    "the main idea is to use different centrality measures for ranking nodes in the network .",
    "nodes with the highest rank represent words that are candidates for keywords and keyphrases . in @xcite an exhaustive overview of network centrality measures usage in the keyword identification task",
    "is given .",
    "one of the probably most influential graph - based approaches is the textrank ranking model introduced by mihalcea and tarau in @xcite .",
    "textrank is a modification of pagerank algorithm and the basic idea of this ranking technique is to determine the importance of a node according to the importance of its neighbours , using global information recursively drawn from the entire network .",
    "however , some recent researches have shown that even simpler centrality measures can give satisfactory results .",
    "boudin @xcite and lahiri et al .",
    "@xcite compare different centrality measures for keyword extraction task .",
    "litvak and last @xcite compare supervised and unsupervised approach for keywords identification in the task of extractive summarization .",
    "we have already experimented with graph - based approaches for croatian texts representation . in @xcite",
    "we described graph - based word extraction and representation from the croatian dictionary .",
    "we used lattice to represent different semantic relations ( partial semantic overlapping , more specific , etc . ) between words from the dictionary .",
    "in @xcite we described and analysed network - based represenattion of croatian texts . in @xcite",
    "our results showed that in and out selectivity values from shuffled texts are constantly below selectivity values calculated from normal texts .",
    "it seems that selectivity measure is able to capture typical word phrases and collocations which are lost during the shuffling procedure .",
    "the same holds for english where masucci and rodgers @xcite found that selectivity somehow captures the specialized local structures in nodes neighborhood and forms of the morphological structures in text . according to these results",
    ", we expected that node selectivity may be potentially important for the text categories differentiation and include it in the set of standard network measures . in @xcite",
    "we show that the node selectivity measure can capture the structural differences between two genres of text .",
    "this was the motivation for further exploration of selectivity for keyword extraction task from croatian multitopic web documents .",
    "we propose an in / out selectivity based approach combined with filtering to extract keyword candidates from the co - occurrence complex network of text .",
    "we design selectivity - based approach as unsupervised , data and domain independent . in its basic form ,",
    "only the stopwords list is a prerequisite for applying stopwords - filter .",
    "as designed , it is a very simple and robust approach appropriate for extraction from large multitopic and noisy datasets .    in section 2 we present measures for the network structure analysis .",
    "in section 3 we describe datasets and the construction of co - occurrence networks from used text collection . in section 4",
    "are the results of keyword extraction , and in the final section 5 , we elaborate the obtained results and make conclusions regarding future work .",
    "this section describes basic network measures that are necessary for understanding our approach .",
    "more details about these measures can be found in @xcite . in the network , @xmath0 is the number of nodes and @xmath1 is the number of links . in weighted language networks",
    "every link connecting two nodes @xmath2 and @xmath3 has an associated weight @xmath4 that is a positive integer number .",
    "the node degree @xmath5 is defined as the number of edges incident upon a node .",
    "the in degree and out degree @xmath6 of node @xmath2 is defined as the number of its in and out neighbours .",
    "degree centrality of the node @xmath2 is the degree of that node",
    ". it can be normalised by dividing it by the maximum possible degree @xmath7 :    @xmath8    analogue , the in / out degree centralities are defined as in / out degree of a node :    @xmath9    closeness centrality is defined as the inverse of farness , i.e. the sum of the shortest distances between a node and all the other nodes .",
    "let @xmath10 be the shortest path between nodes @xmath2 and @xmath3 .",
    "the normalised closeness centrality of a node @xmath2 is given by :    @xmath11    betweenness centrality quantifies the number of times a node acts as a bridge along the shortest path between two other nodes .",
    "let @xmath12 be the number of shortest paths from node @xmath3 to node @xmath13 and let @xmath14 be the number of those paths that pass through the node @xmath2 .",
    "the normalised betweenness centrality of a node @xmath2 is given by :    @xmath15    the strength of the node @xmath2 is a sum of weights of all links incident with the node @xmath2 :    @xmath16    all given measures are defined for directed networks , but language networks are weighted , therefore , the weights should be considered . in the directed network ,",
    "the in / out strength @xmath17 of the node @xmath2 is defined as the number of its incoming and outgoing links , that is :    @xmath18    the selectivity measure is introduced in @xcite .",
    "it is actually an average strength of a node . for the node @xmath2 the selectivity",
    "is calculated as a fraction of the node weight and node degree :    @xmath19    in the directed network , the in / out selectivity of the node @xmath2 is defined as :    @xmath20",
    "dataset contains 4 collections of web documents written in croatian language collected from different web sources ( portals and forums on different daily topics ) .",
    "the 4 different web sources : business portal gospodarski list ( gl ) , legislative portal narodne novine ( nn ) , news portal with forum index.hr ( in ) , daily newspaper portal slobodna dalmacija ( sd ) .    the first step in networks construction was text preprocessing : `` cleaning '' special symbols and normalising croatian diacritics (  ,  ,  ,  , d ) and removing punctuation which does not mark the end of a sentence .",
    "commonly , for croatian which is highly flective salvic language the lemmatisation and part - of - speech tagging should be performed , but we model our experiment without any explicit language knowledge .    for each dataset we constructed weighted and directed co - occurrence network .",
    "nodes are words that are linked if they are direct neighbours in a sentence .",
    "the next step was creating the networks as weighted edgelists , which contain all the pairs of connected words and their weights ( the number of connections between two same words ) . in the table 1",
    "there are number of words , number of nodes and number of edges per each dataset .",
    "we used python and the networkx software package developed for the construction , manipulation , and study of the structure , dynamics , and functions of complex networks @xcite .",
    ".the number of words , number of nodes and number of edges for all 4 datasets [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we analyse network - based keyword extraction from multitopic croatian web documents using selectivity measure .",
    "we compare keyword candidate words rankings with selectivity and three network - based centrality measures ( degree , closeness and betwenness ) .",
    "the selectivity measure gives better results because centrality - based rankings select only stopwords as the top 10 ranked words .",
    "furthermore , we propose extracting the highly connected words - tuples with the highest in / out  selectivity values as the keyword candidates . finally , we apply different filters ( stopwords - filter , high - weights - filter ) in order to keyword candidate list .",
    "the first part of analysis can raise some considerations regarding the selectivity measure .",
    "the selectivity measure is important for the language networks especially because it can differentiate between two types of nodes with high strength values ( which mean words with high frequencies ) .",
    "nodes with high strength values and high degree values would have low selectivity values .",
    "these nodes are usually stopwords ( conjunctions , prepositions ,  ) . on the other side ,",
    "nodes with high strength values and low degree values would have high selectivity values .",
    "these nodes are possible collocations , keyphrases and names that appear in the texts .",
    "it seems that selectivity is insensitive to stopwords ( which are the most frequent words ) and therefore can efficiently detect semantically rich open class words from the network .",
    "furthermore , since we modelled multitopic datastes the keyword extraction task is even more demanding . from the results of this preliminary research",
    "it seems that the selectivity has a potential to extract keyword candidates without preprocessing ( lemmatisation , pos tagging ) from multitopic sources .      for the future work we plan to evaluate our results on different datasets in different languages .",
    "furthermore , it seem promising to define an approach that can extract a sequence of three or four neighbouring words based on filtered words - tuples",
    ". we also plan to experiment with lemmatised texts .",
    "finally , in the future we will examine the effect of noise to the results obtained from multitopic sources .",
    "z. liu , p. li , y. zheng , and m. sun . clustering to find exemplar terms for keyphrase extraction . in proceedings of the 2009 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing .",
    "volume 1-volume 1 , pp .",
    "257 - 266 ( 2009 )    d. margan , s. martini - ipi and a. metrovi .",
    "network differences between normal and shuffled texts : case of croatian .",
    "studies in computational intelligence , complex networks v. vol.549 .",
    "italy , pp . 275283 .",
    "( 2014 )    d. margan , s. martini - ipi , and a. metrovi .",
    "preliminary report on the structure of croatian linguistic co - occurrence networks .",
    "5th international conference on information technologies and information society ( itis ) , slovenia , 8996 ( 2013 )                    t. tomokiyo , and m. hurst . a language model approach to keyphrase extraction . in proc . of the acl 2003 workshop on multiword",
    "expressions : analysis , acquisition and treatment , volume 18 , pp . 3340 ( 2003 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we analyse the selectivity measure calculated from the complex network in the task of the automatic keyword extraction . </S>",
    "<S> texts , collected from different web sources ( portals , forums ) , are represented as directed and weighted co - occurrence complex networks of words . </S>",
    "<S> words are nodes and links are established between two nodes if they are directly co - occurring within the sentence . </S>",
    "<S> we test different centrality measures for ranking nodes - keyword candidates . </S>",
    "<S> the promising results are achieved using the selectivity measure . </S>",
    "<S> then we propose an approach which enables extracting word pairs according to the values of the in / out selectivity and weight measures combined with filtering .    </S>",
    "<S> extraction , complex networks , co - occurrence language networks , croatian texts , selectivity </S>"
  ]
}