{
  "article_text": [
    "electronic health records ( ehrs ) constitute a relatively new data source that are being used to understand and predict near - term clinical events @xcite .",
    "they are characterized by having dense , serial information on patients receiving clinical care , allowing for a granular view of a patient s evolving health status .",
    "a national heart lung and blood institute working group recently prioritized the assessment of near term risk of acute cardiac events @xcite .",
    "specifically the group focused on the use of biomarkers to make such assessments .    before developing predictive models , it is first necessary to detect potentially useful markers .",
    "if the biomarker were measured once , a typical approach to detect such markers would be to perform a logistic regression , regressing the probability of an event onto the marker and other covariates , such as :    @xmath0    where @xmath1 would be the parameter of interest , representing whether changes in the marker change the probability of the event of interest .",
    "of course , one of the key advantages of ehr data is that markers are measured over time . while this allows for a more sophisticated view of changes it also makes the analysis more challenging .",
    "the analysis can be simplified by averaging or summarizing laboratory values across time but this may result in a loss of information .",
    "instead we ideally want to consider variation in the marker over time .",
    "we can reform model as :    @xmath2    where now we are integrating over multiple time points , @xmath3 . to fit such a model",
    "we can consider discretizing time , however , depending on the number of time points , this may result in a very high dimensional model .",
    "complicating matters further is that ehr measures are taken irregularly and sometimes sporadically , meaning patients generally do not have laboratory measures at comparable time points and frequencies .",
    "this makes standard analytic techniques , which often require well aligned measurements , challenging .",
    "the difficulty of estimating model is reflected in the complex theoretical work and software that others have developed to fit it @xcite .",
    "@xcite used a two - stage errors in variable model with cubic splines to estimate individual curves where the dimension of the spline is larger than the observed observations .",
    "@xcite took a modified imputation approach to get measurements on the same time scale .",
    "@xcite utilized functional pca to estimate the curves .",
    "furthermore , while analyses of the form of model have appeal from a predictive standpoint , they do not necessarily address the specific question of interest : namely is a given measure a clinically useful biomarker of an impending event .",
    "another way of phrasing that question is : does a given laboratory measure show different and detectable patterns among those that experience an event ?    with this question in mind , we suggest a relatively straightforward solution to detecting clinically useful biomarkers .",
    "the model we propose is flexible enough to not only answer a series of questions about the utility of a laboratory measure to serve as a predictive marker , but also to allow for the detection of these relationships using established statistical methods .",
    "we illustrate this approach using ehr data from patients with end stage renal disease ( esrd ) undergoing hemodialysis ( hd ) .",
    "patients undergoing outpatient hd are at increased risk of cardiac events , particularly myocardial infarction ( mi ) .",
    "cardiac disease accounts for 43% of all cause mortality with approximately 20% due to mi @xcite .",
    "moreover , patients receiving outpatient hd typically have routine and regularly scheduled monitoring of several laboratory values for months or years at a time .",
    "therefore , patients undergoing hd represent an ideal population to study the role of repeated laboratory measures in the detection of an impending mi .",
    "the rest of the paper is arranged as follows : in section 2 we describe the available data .",
    "since one of the challenges in working with ehr data is appropriately selecting an analytic cohort , we also describe a generally useful sampling design . in section 3",
    "we walk through our proposed analysis which consists of a series of goodness - of - fit tests . in section 4",
    "we present the analytic results and conclude in section 5 .",
    "working with ehr data presents unique opportunities and challenges .",
    "we first note that ehr data are inherently observational , implying all of the caveats and limitations of non - experimental data .",
    "the primary strength and challenge of ehr data are its longitudinal nature , with individuals having multiple measurements over time .",
    "while presenting the opportunity to observe changes over time - the primary aspect of the present analysis - this can become complicated since measurements are often taken irregularly . in some ehrs - though not the current one - the presence of a measure may serve as a risk indicator itself , e.g. a patient feeling ill and visiting a doctor , producing a measurement in the ehr .",
    "the first challenge is how to appropriately sample an analytic cohort from the ehr . in the present study",
    "we are interested in identifying potential markers of acute mi .",
    "this lends itself well to a retrospective analysis : identify those people with an mi and observe how different markers change before the event .",
    "the subtler question is who is the comparative group , i.e. controls .",
    "below we describe the data available , how we define the cases and more importantly how we sample the controls .",
    "we used two data sources in the analysis : the united states renal data system ( usrds ) and the ehr from davita , inc .",
    "the usrds is a national registry that includes almost all persons with esrd @xcite .",
    "it is created from medical claims submitted to medicare , which is mandated by law to pay for the healthcare of the majority of patients with esrd , regardless of the age of patients at the start of their hd treatments .",
    "davita inc .",
    "is the second largest chain of outpatient dialysis centers in the country .",
    "their ehr contains detailed session level information on patient dialysis session , laboratory values , hemodynamic metrics and more .",
    "we used an anonymous crosswalk provided by the usrds coordinating center to link the two datasets .",
    "this was conducted under a data use agreement between the national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases and one of the authors ( wcw ) .",
    "one can consider an ehr as analogous to a large prospective cohort where only a small fraction of the cohort will experience an event , each at different time points . with this in mind",
    ", we describe a sampling approach motivated from nested case - control designs to sample appropriate controls along with eligible cases @xcite      any individual who initiated hd between january 1 , 1995 and december 31st 2008 and was a patient at a davita , inc .",
    "dialysis facility between january 1st , 2004 and december 31st 2008 was eligible for study .",
    "using the usrds payer history file , we retained only those patients who were aged @xmath4 at the initiation of dialysis and had at least 2 years of uninterrupted fee - for - service medicare coverage before their reported first dialysis ( first service date ) . selecting this subset of individuals has two advantages .",
    "first we can observe the health - care claims and associated diagnoses and procedures before the onset of esrd .",
    "this provides us with increased confidence that we are detecting an incident mi and not a claim related to a previous mi .",
    "second , we can be near - certain that all health claims are recorded at the time of initiation of dialysis , without having to apply an eligibility window .",
    "we excluded all individuals with a history of an mi , defined through the presence of any of the following icd-9 codes : 410 . * * and 412 . to be as sensitive as possible",
    ", patients with any inpatient code or outpatient codes were removed from analysis .",
    "cases were subjects who developed incident mi between 2004 and 2008 while receiving ongoing dialysis treatment at davita , inc .",
    "we defined a case as `` active '' if a laboratory measurement was recorded within 14 days of the qualifying event .",
    "events were identified from either ( a ) the presence of an icd-9 code of 410 . * * during a hospitalization ( positive predictive value 96.9% @xcite ) or ( b ) a primary cause of death being reported as due to myocardial infarction ( code 2 or 23 ) on the death notification record to medicare .      sampling of controls is the primary challenge in designing retrospective , longitudinal analyses @xcite . for nested case - control designs ,",
    "we want to sample a control whenever someone becomes a case . in the ehr setting , there are two potential time domains : calendar time and clinical time , i.e. the time since start of maintenance / chronic dialysis treatment for esrd ( also called `` vintage '' ) .",
    "we decided to sample controls based on calendar time and adjust for vintage .",
    "for all cases during a calendar month , an equal number of controls were sampled , creating an index date . by design ,",
    "individuals are eligible to serve as controls earlier in time even if they become a case later .",
    "for example , a patient who was diagnosed with esrd on 7/1/2006 and had an incident mi on 5/1/2008 , would be eligible to serve as a control during the period preceding the mi .",
    "while it is typical in nested case - control design to sample _ matched _ controls we chose not to perform such matching to avoid the additional complications @xcite , but instead simply adjusted for covariates .      to assess the proposed procedure , we divided the sample into a training set consisting of incident events and corresponding controls between 2004 and 2007 and an independent validation set consisting of incident events and controls within 2008 .        through the davita ehr",
    ", data were abstracted on 11 regularly collected laboratory measures : albumin , calcium , co@xmath5 , creatinine , ferritin , hemoglobin , iron saturation , phosphorous , platelet count , potassium , and white blood cell count .",
    "it is important to note that these laboratory measures are collected per - protocol and not based on a patient s clinical characteristics .",
    "table [ t : labs ] lists the predetermined acceptable ranges and approximate frequency of collection .",
    "any laboratory measures that fell outside these ranges were removed .    [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ t : results ]    among the five laboratory measures that met all three of the above criteria we examined the point at which the laboratory measures for those experiencing an mi began to depart from linearity .",
    "a series of models were fit , with each one adding an additional knot over time .",
    "the model with the minimal aic was chosen as the best fit .",
    "table 3 also shows the optimal fit for each of the five laboratory measures .",
    "albumin , hemoglobin and platelet - count showed optimal departure within 4 weeks of the event , suggesting that changes could be detected one - month before an event occurs .",
    "we visually inspected the patterns of change for each of the 11 markers ( figure 3(a - k ) ) . using the estimates from model we predicted the laboratory measure for a person about to experience an mi and a similar control , with 95% point - wise prediction intervals .",
    "visual inspection confirms the analytic results . of the laboratory measures that were not identified as useful markers ,",
    "all but ferritin , did not visually show differences between those about to experience and mi and those who did not .",
    "most of the successful laboratory markers showed departures from linearity immediately preceding the mi , as suggested by analysis 3 .",
    "the one exception was iron saturation which visually appears to have it s greatest departure at about 14 days but analytically was identified at 168 days .",
    "[ flowchart ]    finally , we assessed the predictive performance of each measure among an independent validation set of events .",
    "table 3 contains the c - statistic for each of the 11 laboratory measures . using only the baseline covariates of age , sex , race , and vintage ,",
    "the c - statistic was 0.541 @xmath6 suggesting minimal predictive value based off these baseline characteristics alone .",
    "of the five laboratory measures that met the suggested criteria , four had a significant ( p @xmath7 ) improvement in their c - statistics , with albumin , hemoglobin and white blood cell showing the best discrimination .",
    "conversely , of the six measurements that did not meet our criteria none yielded a significant improvement in discrimination .",
    "in this paper we suggest a straightforward procedure to detecting clinically meaningful markers of an impending clinical event within an ehr .",
    "the irregular and longitudinal nature of the data can make analyzing ehrs challenging .",
    "while some theoretical work has been developed to address these challenges , these methods are not all readily accessible . instead , we suggest an approach that utilizes regular statistical methods and software .",
    "the two steps in such an analysis are to first appropriately select a study sample from the ehr and second to analyze the data . to select the cohort , we utilized a nested case - control study .",
    "in such a design , one identifies cases from the ehr and selects a suitable sample of controls .",
    "one of the challenges in ehr data is identifying a time 0 for all patients , since one can sample within calendar time or disease time .",
    "we chose to sample on calendar time and condition on disease time .",
    "others have used nested case - control designs noting both their suitability and advantages for prediction with ehr data @xcite .    using the proposed mixed model with spline basis functions we illustrate a variety of analytic questions one can ask to asses the clinical utility of a laboratory measure .",
    "these include : do those that experience the event show a different pattern over time ?",
    "are the laboratory measures linear over time among the controls and non - linear among the cases ? how far out can we detect non - linearity in the cases ? undoubtedly , given a specific clinical question one could imagine that different comparisons could be drawn .",
    "we consider this flexibility to be one of the strengths of the proposed procedure .",
    "for example , if it were known that a laboratory measure changed via circadian rhythms ( e.g. blood pressure ) and was continuously measured over a single day , stability for controls could be proposed to have a sinusoidal pattern .",
    "we assessed this approach using data from an ehr system of patients undergoing hemodialysis .",
    "we identified 4,769 people with an incident myocardial infarction and abstracted 11 regular laboratory measures over a 6 month period before the event .",
    "of the 11 measure , 5 met our criteria .",
    "we evaluated the results both qualitatively via visualization and quantitatively through fitting a prediction model on an independent set of data .",
    "four of the measurements showed strong utility as a predictor , with the three most promising measures for assessing risk of mi were a drop in albumin and hemoglobin and a rise in white blood cell count .",
    "not surprisingly these markers have previously been associated with risk of mi @xcite .",
    "while we have focused here on outpatient hd , we note that there are many other comparable scenarios within typical hospital settings where patients get serial measurements , such as inpatient intensive care units , monitoring during surgery , and cancer treatment where this approach should also prove useful .",
    "the primary limitation is that the analytic model is a retrospective model .",
    "once suitable markers are identified it is of interest to predict the probability of the event given a set of measurements . in this case , methods that estimate model are necessary . for this reason , we ultimately consider this a useful screening procedure to select markers to track either quantitatively through algorithms embedded in the ehr predicting the probability of an event or more qualitatively through clinical observation . with that in mind",
    ", we note that of the five successfully identified markers , four showed significant predictive utility .",
    "moreover , none of the markers that were not identified showed predictive utility .",
    "overall , we illustrate an analytic approach to detecting laboratory measures that are clinically meaningful markers of an impending clinical event .",
    "the appeal of this procedure is its simplicity and intuitiveness and the use of standard statistical methodology and theory .",
    "we believe this approach is easily transferable to analyzing other types of serially collected ehr data that may be changing over time .",
    "dr . goldstein is funded by national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases ( niddk ) career development award k25 dk097279 .",
    "dr . assimes is funded by niddk k23 dk088942 data were originally purchased for other projects through funds from niddk grants r01dk090181 and r01dk095024 to dr . winkelmayer .",
    "goldstein ba , chang ti , mitani aa , assimes tl , winkelmayer wc .",
    "( 2014 ) near - term prediction of sudden cardiac death in older hemodialysis patients using electronic health records .",
    "_ clinical journal of the american society of nephrology _ * 9 , * 82 - 91 .",
    "eagle ka , ginsburg gs , musunuru k , et al.(2010 ) identifying patients at high risk of a cardiovascular event in the near future : current status and future directions : report of a national heart , lung , and blood institute working group .",
    "_ circulation _ * 121 , * 1447 - 1454 .",
    "james , g. ( 2002 ) generalized linear models with functional predictor variables . _ journal of the royal statistical society series b _ * 64 , * 411 - 432 .",
    "gertheiss j , goldsmith j , crainiceanu c , greven s. ( 2013 ) longitudinal scalar - on - functions regression with application to tractography data .",
    "_ biostatistics _ * 14 , * 447 - 461 .",
    "yao f , mller h - g , wang j - l .",
    "functional data analysis for sparse longitudinal data .",
    "( 2005 ) _ journal of the american statistical association _ * 100 , * 577 - 590 .    herzog ca .",
    "( 1999 ) acute myocardial infarction in patients with end - stage renal disease . _",
    "kidney international suppl_. * 71 , * s130 - 133 .",
    "collins aj , foley rn , herzog c , et al .",
    "( 2013 ) us renal data system 2012 annual data report .",
    "_ american journal of kidney disease_. * 61 , * e1 - 476 .",
    "biesheuvel cj , vergouwe y , oudega r , hoes aw , grobbee de , moons kgm .",
    "( 2008 ) advantages of the nested case - control design in diagnostic research .",
    "_ bmc medical research methodology _ * 8 .",
    "*    petersen la , wright s , normand sl , daley j. positive predictive value of the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in an administrative database .",
    "j gen intern med .",
    "1999;14(9):555 - 558 .",
    "wacholder s , silverman dt , mclaughlin jk , mandel js .",
    "( 1992 ) selection of controls in case - control studies .",
    "design options . _ american journal of epidemiology _ * 135 , * 1042 - 1050 .",
    "cai t , zheng y. ( 2012 ) evaluating prognostic accuracy of biomarkers in nested case ",
    ". _ biostatistics _ * 13 , * 89 - 100 .",
    "goldsmith j , crainiceanu cm , caffo b , reich d. longitudinal penalized functional regression for cognitive outcomes on neuronal tract measurements .",
    "( 2012 ) _ journal of the royal statistical society series c _ * 61 , * 453 - 469 .",
    "doi:10.1111/j.1467 - 9876.2011.01031.x .",
    "r core team .",
    "r : a language and environment for statistical computing . vienna , austria : r foundation for statistical computing ; available at : www.r-project.org .",
    "irizarry mc , webb dj , boudiaf n , et al .",
    "( 2012 ) risk of cancer in patients exposed to gabapentin in two electronic medical record systems._pharmacoepidemiolgy drug safety _ * 21 , * 214 - 225 .",
    "wu j , roy j , stewart wf .",
    "prediction modeling using ehr data : challenges , strategies , and a comparison of machine learning approaches .",
    "( 2010 ) _ medical care _ * 48 , * s106 - 113 .",
    "james g , wang j , zhu j. ( 2009 ) functional linear regression that s interpretable .",
    "_ annals of statistics _ * 37 , * 2083 - 2108 .    ikizler ta . the use and misuse of serum albumin as a nutritional marker in kidney disease .",
    "( 2012 ) _ clinical journal of the american society of nephrology _ * 7 , * 1375 - 1377 .",
    "djouss l , rothman kj , cupples la , levy d , ellison rc .",
    "( 2002 ) serum albumin and risk of myocardial infarction and all - cause mortality in the framingham offspring study .",
    "_ circulation _ * 106 , * 2919 - 2924 .    ensrud k , grimm rh jr . the white blood cell count and risk for coronary heart disease .",
    "( 1992 ) _ american heart journal _ * 124 , * 207 - 213 .",
    "friedman gd , klatsky al , siegelaub ab .",
    "( 1974 ) the leukocyte count as a predictor of myocardial infarction . _",
    "new england journal of medicine _ * 290 , * 1275 - 1278 .",
    "bassand j - p , afzal r , eikelboom j , et al .",
    "( 2010 ) relationship between baseline haemoglobin and major bleeding complications in acute coronary syndromes .",
    "_ european heart journal _ * 31 , * 50 - 58 .",
    "salonen jt , nyyssnen k , korpela h , tuomilehto j , seppnen r , salonen r. ( 1992 ) high stored iron levels are associated with excess risk of myocardial infarction in eastern finnish men .",
    "_ circulation _ * 86 , * 803 - 811",
    ".    gawaz m. role of platelets in coronary thrombosis and reperfusion of ischemic myocardium .",
    "_ cardiovascular research_. * 61 , * 498 - 511 .",
    "the following is code for calculating a truncated power spline basis :    .... tps < - function(x , knots ) {       k < - length(knots )       b < - matrix(na , nrow = length(x ) , ncol = k + 1 )       b[,1 ] < - x # # # add x to basis ; no intercept       for(i in 1:k ) {                  tp < - ( x - knots[i])^3 # # # cubic polynomial                  tp < - ifelse(tp > 0 , tp , 0 ) # # # truncate                  b[,(i+1 ) ] < - tp           }        return(b ) } ...."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> electronic health record ( ehr ) data are becoming an increasingly common data source for understanding clinical risk of acute events . </S>",
    "<S> while their longitudinal nature presents opportunities to observe changing risk over time , these analyses are complicated by the sparse and irregular measurements of many of the clinical metrics making typical statistical methods unsuitable for these data . in this paper , we present an analytic procedure to both sample from an ehr and analyze the data to detect clinically meaningful markers of acute myocardial infarction ( mi ) . using an ehr from a large national dialysis organization we abstracted the records of 64,318 individuals and identified 5,314 people that had an mi during the study period . </S>",
    "<S> we describe a nested case - control design to sample appropriate controls and an analytic approach using regression splines . fitting a mixed - model with truncated power splines </S>",
    "<S> we perform a series of goodness - of - fit tests to determine whether any of 11 regularly collected laboratory markers are useful clinical predictors . </S>",
    "<S> we test the clinical utility of each marker using an independent test set . </S>",
    "<S> the results suggest that ehr data can be easily used to detect markers of clinically acute events . </S>",
    "<S> special software or analytic tools are not needed , even with irregular ehr data . </S>"
  ]
}