{
  "article_text": [
    "cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) are interacting binary systems in which a low - mass star  usually a red dwarf  overfills its roche lobe and transfers mass onto a white dwarf ( wd ) . @xcite and @xcite offer excellent overviews of these intriguing systems . in a subset of cvs known as polars , the exceptionally strong magnetic field ( @xmath1 tens of mg ) of the wd synchronizes the wd s spin period with the orbital period of the binary ( see @xcite for a comprehensive review of polars specifically ) . the accretion stream from the secondary star follows a ballistic trajectory toward the wd until the magnetic pressure matches the stream s ram pressure . when this occurs , a threading region forms in which the accretion stream couples onto the wd s magnetic field lines , and the captured material is then channeled onto one or more accretion regions near the wd s magnetic poles .",
    "the impact of the stream creates a shock in which the plasma is heated to x - ray - emitting temperatures , so polars can be significantly brighter in x - ray wavelengths than ordinary non - magnetic cvs .",
    "in addition to x - rays , the accretion region produces polarized cyclotron emission in the optical and in the infrared , the detection of which is a defining characteristic of polars .    eclipses of the wd have provided great insight into polars .",
    "because a polar has no accretion disk , an eclipsing polar will generally exhibit a two - step eclipse : a very sharp eclipse of the compact ( @xmath1 white dwarf radius ) cyclotron - emitting region , followed by a much more gradual eclipse of the extended accretion stream ( see , _",
    "e.g. _ , @xcite for an eclipse - mapping study of hu aqr ) .",
    "when the accretion rate is high , the wd photosphere makes only a modest contribution to the overall optical flux , overshadowed by the two accretion - powered components mentioned above .    eclipsing polars",
    "also make it possible to determine the orientation of the magnetic axis with respect to the secondary . in hu aqr , the orientation of the dominant magnetic pole leads the line of centers of the binary by about 45@xmath2 @xcite , while in dp leo , another eclipsing polar , the equilibrium orientation leads the line of centers by 7@xmath3 but with a long - term oscillation with an amplitude of @xmath4 @xcite .    in at least four polars ,",
    "the wd s spin period differs from the orbital period by as much as several percent . in these asynchronous polars",
    ", the wd s magnetic field is gradually synchronizing the spin period with the orbital period on timescales of centuries .",
    "for example , @xcite detected a derivative in the wd spin period in v1500 cyg and estimated that the system would approach resynchronization about 150 years after the publication of their study .",
    "because the prototype asynchronous polar , v1500 cyg , was almost certainly desynchronized during its 1975 nova eruption , the canonical view is that these systems are byproducts of nova eruptions which break the synchronous rotation by causing the primary to lose mass and to interact with the secondary @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite combined the fraction of asynchronous systems among all known polars with their estimated synchronization timescales and estimated an unexpectedly short nova recurrence time of a few thousand years for polars  far more rapid than the expected recurrence time of @xmath5 years .",
    "every aspect of warner s deduction ought to be explored , including the possibility of an additional channel for desynchronizing polars , selection effects that might alter the fraction of asynchronous polars , and methods of calculating the synchronization time scale .",
    "interestingly , in each of the four confirmed asynchronous polars , the threading process is inefficient in comparison to fully synchronous systems . in synchronous systems ,",
    "the accretion stream is fully captured not long after it leaves the l1 point , well before it can travel around the wd ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in none of the asynchronous systems",
    "is this efficient threading seen .",
    "for example , doppler tomography by @xcite of v1432 aql showed an azimuthally extended accretion curtain , a finding which is possible only if the accretion stream can travel significantly around the wd .",
    "x - ray observations of v1432 aql also indicate that the accretion stream travels most of the way around the wd before it is fully threaded onto the magnetic field lines @xcite .",
    "likewise , in the other three systems , there is mounting evidence that the accretion flow can significantly extend around the wd . in cd ind",
    ", the accretion stream appears to thread onto the same magnetic field line throughout the beat cycle , requiring that the stream be able to travel around the wd @xcite . with regard to v1500 cyg",
    ", @xcite argued that the smooth sinusoidal variation of the polarization curve was consistent with the infalling stream forming a thin accretion ring around the wd .",
    "more recently , @xcite detected evidence that this accretion ring is fragmented , periodically reducing the irradiation of the donor star by the hot wd . in the remaining system , by cam",
    ", doppler tomograms show that the accretion curtain extends over @xmath6 in azimuth around the wd , requiring a similar extent of the accretion stream @xcite .",
    "although a sample size of four is small , it is remarkable that in each of the confirmed asynchronous polars , the threading process is so inefficient that the accretion stream can travel much of the way around the wd .",
    "v1432 aql (= rx j1940.1 - 1025 ) is the only known eclipsing , asynchronous polar and was identified as such by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "there are two stable periodicities in optical photometry of v1432 aql .",
    "the first ( 12116 seconds ) is the orbital period , which is easily measured from the timings of the eclipses of the wd by the secondary .",
    "initially , the nature of the eclipses was unclear ; @xcite argued that the secondary was the occulting body , but @xcite contended that a dense portion of the accretion stream was the culprit .",
    "much of the confusion was attributable to the presence of residual emission lines and x - rays throughout the eclipses , as well as the variable eclipse depth .",
    "since x - rays in polars originate on or just above the wd s surface , the apparent x - ray signal throughout the eclipse was inconsistent with occultations by the donor star .",
    "additionally , there was considerable scatter in the eclipse timings , and the system s eclipse light curves did not show the rapid ingresses and egresses characteristic of synchronous polars @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite resolved the dispute with high - quality x - ray observations which showed that the donor actually eclipses the wd and that the residual x - ray flux previously attributed to v1432 aql was actually contamination from a nearby seyfert galaxy .",
    "the second periodicity ( @xmath7 seconds ) is the spin modulation of the wd . in optical photometry",
    ", this periodicity manifests itself in several ways .",
    "in particular , at @xmath8 , the wd is occulted by material accreting onto one of the magnetic poles , producing a broad `` spin minimum '' @xcite .",
    "analyses of the spin minima have revealed several fascinating insights into v1432 aql .",
    "for example , @xcite undertook an o@xmath0c study of the timing residuals of the spin minima and managed to detect a decrease in the wd spin period , indicating that the system is resynchronizing itself .",
    "they also measured a cyclical variation in the timings of the spin minima , caused by ( 1 ) a longitudinal offset between the magnetic pole and its corresponding accretion region on the wd s surface and ( 2 ) the accretion stream threading onto different magnetic field lines throughout the spin - orbit beat period ( @xmath9 ) .",
    "using these timings and a dipole accretion model , the authors managed to constrain the combined effect of the threading radius and the colatitude of the magnetic axis on the wd , but they could not constrain these parameters individually .",
    "@xcite applied the methodology of @xcite to a larger dataset and refined the results of the earlier paper .    a critical concept which emerges from the literature",
    "is the beat period between the spin and orbital periods .",
    "the beat period is simply the amount of time that it takes for the wd ( and its magnetic field ) to rotate once as seen from the perspective of the donor star .",
    "as @xcite first demonstrated , the accretion stream will interact with different magnetic field lines as the system progresses through its beat period , a foundational principle which informs our analysis throughout this paper .",
    "v1432 aql is especially suitable for long - term study because its long - term brightness has remained constant not only in our own observations but also in data from the american association of variable star observers dating back to 2002 .",
    "similarly , the catalina sky survey @xcite does not show any low states in the system since coverage of v1432 aql began in 2005 .",
    "while many polars alternate unpredictably between bright and faint states due to changes in the mass - transfer rate , v1432 aql has not been observed to do so .",
    "we supplement these previous studies by reporting the detection of stable periodicities in both the residual eclipse flux and the o@xmath0c timing residuals of the eclipses .",
    "these phenomena occur at the beat period , and we use a model to show that our observations are consistent with a threading radius whose position with respect to the wd varies throughout the beat cycle .    in response to this study s observational findings , one of us ( db ) followed up by analyzing a different set of observations obtained by the center for backyard astrophysics over a much longer timespan .",
    "his group s analysis provides confirmation of the residual - flux and timing variations described in this paper while also reporting additional beat - cycle - related phenomena @xcite .",
    ", and the data in gray at @xmath10 . the solid lines are the best - fit polynomials for each dataset .",
    "the polynomials satisfactorily model the asymmetric eclipses while smoothing noisy , possibly spurious features in the light curves.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    as part of a twenty - eight - month effort to study v1432 aql s behavior at different beat phases , six of us ( cl , rm , rc , kcm , tc , and ds ) obtained unfiltered , time - resolved photometry using the university of notre dame s 28-cm schmidt - cassegrain telescope and sbig st-8xme ccd camera between july 2012 and july 2014 .",
    "the exposure time was 30  seconds for each individual image , with an overhead time of 8  seconds per image .",
    "a total of 76 light curves , consisting of over 17,500 individual measurements , were obtained with this instrument .",
    "these observations constitute the bulk of our dataset , and their uniformity avoids the introduction of errors caused by combining unfiltered observations from different telescope - ccd combinations .",
    "because of their homogeneity , we use these data for all three parts of our analysis : studying the eclipse o - c variations , measuring the mid - eclipse magnitude , and for constructing phase plots of the system at different beat phases .",
    "we also obtained a number of light curves with other telescopes , but since these instruments have different spectral responses , we only used this supplemental data to explore eclipse o@xmath0c variations .",
    "cl obtained four unfiltered time series in july 2014 using the university of notre dame s 80-cm sarah l. krizmanich telescope and two more with wesleyan university s 60-cm perkin telescope in september 2014 .",
    "the data obtained with the krizmanich and perkin telescopes have much higher time resolution ( exposure times between 5 and 7 seconds , each with a @xmath13-second readout time , for a total cadence of 10 seconds or less ) , facilitating the study of the rapid variability during the eclipses .",
    "in addition , mc , ju , db , and lm respectively used a 40-cm schmidt - cassegrain and qsi-516 ccd camera with a johnson @xmath11 filter , a 23-cm schmidt - cassegrain and qsi-583ws ccd camera , a 25-cm newtonian with an unfiltered sxv - h9 ccd camera , and a 28-cm schmidt - cassegrain equipped with an stt-1603 ccd camera . with the exception of lm , who used 45-second exposures , each of them used an exposure time of 60 seconds .    to compensate for light - travel delays caused by earth s orbital motion , the timestamp for each observation was corrected to the bjd ( tdb ) standard @xcite .    with unfiltered photometry of a cv , it is possible to infer the approximate @xmath11-band magnitude of the cv by selecting a same - color comparison star and using its @xmath11 magnitude when calculating the magnitude of the cv . since polars tend to be quite blue , we relied upon aavso field photometry to select two relatively comparison blue stars ; colors of 0.20 and 0.43 , respectively , according to the apass photometric survey @xcite . ]",
    "we utilized these comparison stars for all photometry used in the analyses of mid - eclipse magnitude and the spin modulation at different beat phases .",
    "one of the most obvious phenomena in the photometry is the highly variable magnitude of the system at mid - eclipse , which ranges from @xmath12 16.0 to @xmath12 17.5 .",
    "different eclipses also displayed strikingly different morphologies , and in figure  [ sample - eclipses ] , we plot two eclipses which are representative of this variation .",
    "such behavior is plainly at odds with normal eclipsing polars , which almost invariably have very abrupt ingresses and egresses since most of the flux originates in a small  and thus rapidly eclipsed ",
    "area on the wd ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "v1432 aql s gradual ingresses and egresses indicate that its flux originates in an extended region , and in this regard , its eclipses bear a superficial resemblance to those of cvs with accretion disks .",
    "we measured both the time of minimum eclipse flux and the magnitude at mid - eclipse by fitting a fifth - order polynomial to each eclipse ( see table  [ eclipse_timings ] ) .",
    "figure  [ sample - eclipses ] demonstrates the adequacy of the fit by plotting two eclipse light curves , each fitted with a fifth - order polynomial .",
    "since the system s eclipses are frequently asymmetric , the time of minimum flux is not necessarily the midpoint between ingress and egress . indeed ,",
    "several eclipses were w - shaped , with two distinct minima .",
    "for these eclipses , we report the time of the deepest minimum .",
    "one particularly remarkable eclipse , observed on jd 2456843 and discussed in section  [ application_of_model ] , had two minima of equal depth , so we report both times .",
    "additionally , we detected a number of spin minima .",
    "since previous studies of the spin minima ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have measured the timing of each spin minimum by locating its vertical axis of symmetry , we fit a second - order polynomial to each spin minimum on the assumption that the minimum of this parabola will roughly approximate the vertical axis of symmetry .",
    "while a higher - order polynomial would do a better job of modeling the often - asymmetric spin minima , using the second - order polynomial increases the compatibility of our timings with those presented in other works .",
    "we list in table  [ spin_timings ] the timings of all clearly - detected spin minima .",
    "a number of spin minima were ill - defined or had multiple mimima of comparable depth , and in those instances , we did not report a timing because it was impossible to objectively identify the middle of the spin minimum .",
    ".observed times of minimum eclipse flux [ eclipse_timings ] [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     interestingly , there is another , much stronger photometric maximum at @xmath13 which is visible only between @xmath14 .",
    "since this feature shares the wd s spin period , we refer to it as the second spin maximum .",
    "the second spin maximum can be exceptionally prominent in photometry , attaining a peak brightness of @xmath15 in several of our light curves  which is the brightest that we have observed v1432 aql to be .",
    "when visible , the second spin maximum precedes the primary spin maximum by @xmath16 phase units .",
    "it begins to emerge near @xmath17 , and gradually strengthens until it peaks between between @xmath18 .",
    "it then weakens considerably as @xmath19 approaches 0.5 , and after the o@xmath0c jump near @xmath20 , the second spin maximum is replaced by a dip in the light curve .",
    "although the second spin maximum consistently appears between @xmath14 , it vanished in a matter of hours on jd 2456842 ( @xmath21 ) , only to reappear the next night .",
    "on the first night , our observations covered two spin cycles , and while the second spin maximum was obvious in the first cycle , it had disappeared by the second .",
    "just 24 hours later , it was again visible in two successive spin cycles .",
    "this unexpected behavior coincides with the approximate beat phase at which we would expect the dominant threading region to shift to the p3-p4 region in our model . nevertheless , our lack of observations near this beat phase precludes a more rigorous examination of this particular variation .",
    "the second spin maximum is very apparent in some previously published light curves of v1432 aql from as far back as two decades ago .",
    "for example , @xcite presented light curves of v1432 aql obtained in 1993 which showcase the gradual growth of the second spin maximum ( see panels b - g of their figure  2 ) . using our method of determining the beat phase , we extrapolate a beat phase of 0.96 for the light curve shown in their panel b and a beat phase of 0.12 for the light curve in their panel g. the increasing strength of the second spin maximum in their light curves agrees with the behavior that we observed at those beat phases",
    "( see our figure  [ spin - waveform ] ) .",
    "likewise , figure  1 in @xcite shows the second spin maximum at the expected beat phases .",
    "these considerations suggest that the second spin maximum is a stable , recurring feature in optical photometry of v1432 aql .",
    "the overall predictability of the second spin maximum does not answer the more fundamental question of what causes it .",
    "one possibility is that it is the result of an elevated accretion rate on one pole for half of the beat cycle",
    ". the apparent gap between the two spin maxima , therefore , might simply be the consequence of an absorption dip superimposed on the photometric maximum or a cyclotron beaming effect , splitting the spin maximum into two .",
    "a more interesting scenario is that the second spin maximum could be the optical counterpart to the possible third polecap detected by @xcite in x - ray and polarimetric data . in that study",
    ", @xcite detected three distinct maxima in x - ray light curves as well as negative circular polarization at spin phase 0.45 , which is the approximate spin phase of the second spin maximum in optical photometry .",
    "they also measured positive circular polarization at spin phases 0.1 and 0.7 , which correspond with the spin minimum and the primary spin maximum , respectively .",
    "quite fortuitously , the authors obtained their polarimetric observations within several days of the photometric detection of the second spin maximum by @xcite .",
    "thus , it is reasonable to conclude that the circular polarization feature near spin phase 0.45 is related to the second spin maximum , consistent with a third accreting polecap .",
    "the conclusions of @xcite , coupled with our identification of a second spin maximum , suggest that v1432 aql might have at least three accreting polecaps  and therefore , a complex magnetic field",
    ". however , the available evidence is inconclusive , and follow - up polarimetry across the beat cycle could clarify the ambiguity concerning the wd s magnetic field structure .",
    "we have presented the results of a two - year photometric study of v1432 aql s beat cycle . we have confirmed and analyzed the eclipse o@xmath0c variations first reported by @xcite , and we found that the residual mid - eclipse flux is modulated at the system s beat period .",
    "we interpret these variations as evidence that the threading region s location within the binary rest frame varies appreciably as a function of beat phase .",
    "doppler tomography of the system at different beat phases could reveal any changes in the azimuthal extent of the accretion curtain , thereby providing a direct observational test of our model of the system .",
    "our observations provide circumstantial evidence that the mid - eclipse magnitude undergoes high - amplitude variations on a timescale of less than a day near @xmath22 , deviating strongly from the expected brightness at that beat phase . in the most remarkable example of this variation , the mid - eclipse magnitude varied by @xmath11.5 mag in two eclipses observed just 24 hours apart . whereas the first eclipse was deep and smooth , the second eclipse was shallow and w - shaped , with two distinct minima .",
    "similar variations in residual flux were observed in two other beat cycles , providing at least some evidence that this behavior might be recurrent .",
    "still , additional photometric observations are necessary to confirm the @xmath23 fluctuations in mid - eclipse magnitude .",
    "amateur astronomers are ideally suited to undertake such an investigation , especially when one considers that our residual - flux analysis utilized a small telescope and commercially available ccd camera .",
    "moreover , observers with larger telescopes could also obtain relatively high - cadence photometry to study whether double - minima eclipses consistently appear near this beat phase .",
    "in addition , we report a second photometric spin maximum which appears for only about half of the beat cycle",
    ". this phenomenon might be evidence of a complex magnetic field , but a careful polarimetric study of the beat cycle would be necessary to investigate this possibility in additional detail .",
    "we also offer updated ephemerides of the orbital and spin periods ( see sec .",
    "[ ephem ] ) , as well as a python script which calculates v1432 aql s beat phase at a given time and which also predicts when the system will reach a user - specified beat phase .",
    "an exponential spin ephemeris models the data as well as a polynomial ephemeris and is consistent with an asymptotic approach of the spin period toward the orbital period . according to the exponential ephemeris ,",
    "the rate of change of the spin period is proportional to the level of asynchronism in the system ; consequently , if the exponential ephemeris were to remain valid indefinitely , the resynchronization process in v1432 aql would take considerably longer than previous estimates .",
    "finally , while a comprehensive theoretical model of v1432 aql is beyond the scope of this paper , such an analysis could refine our description of the system and shed additional light on v1432 aql s unusual threading mechanisms .",
    "we thank peter garnavich and joe patterson for their helpful comments , as well as the anonymous referee , whose suggestions greatly improved the paper .",
    "this study made use of observations in the aavso international database , which consists of variable star observations contributed by a worldwide network of observers .",
    "the sarah l. krizmanich telescope was generously donated to the university of notre dame in memory of its namesake by the krizmanich family .",
    "this is the first publication to make use of data obtained with this instrument .",
    "db , mc , and ju participate in the center for backyard astrophysics collaboration , which utilizes a global team of professional and amateur astronomers to study cataclysmic variable stars .    99    andronov , i.  l. , baklanov , a.  v. , burwitz , v. 2006 , a&a , 452 , 941    bonnardeau , m. 2012 , oejv , 153 , 1    bianchini , a. , saygac , t. , orio , m. , della valle , m. , & williams , r. 2012 , a&a , 539 , a94    beuermann , k. , dreizler , s. , hessman , f.  v. , schwope , a.  d. 2014 , a&a , 562 , a63    boyd , d. et al .",
    "2014 , arxiv 1406.4061    cropper , m. 1990 , ssrv , 54 , 195    drake , a.  j. et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 696 , 870    eastman , j. , siverd , r. , gaudi , b.  s. 2010 , pasp , 122 , 935    friedrich , s. et al .",
    "1996 , a&a , 306 , 860    geckeler , r.  d. , staubert , r. 1997 , a&a , 325 , 1070    geckeler , r.  d. , staubert , r. 1999 , abstracts of contributed talks and posters presented at the annual scientific meeting of the astronomische gesellschaft , in goettingen , 20 - 25 september 1999 .",
    "harrop - allin , m.  k. , cropper , m. , hakala , p.  j. , hellier , c. , ramseyer , t. 1999 , mnras , 308 , 807    hellier , c. 2001 , _ cataclysmic variable stars : how and why they vary _",
    "henden , a.  a. , levine , s.  e. , terrell , d. , smith , t.  c. , welch , d. 2012 , jaavso , 40 , 430    kovetz , a. , prialnik , d. , & shara , m. 1988 , apj , 325 , 828    lipkin , y.  m. & leibowitz , e.  m. 2008 , mnras , 387 , 289    litvinchova , a.  a. , pavlenko , e.  p. , & shugarov , s.  y. 2010 , ap , 54 , 47    mukai , k. 1988 , mnras , 232 , 175    mukai , k. , hellier , c. , madejski , g. , patterson , j. , skillman , d.  r. 2003 , apj , 597 , 479    patterson , j. et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 434 , 1902    patterson , j. , skillman , d.  r. , thorstensen , j. , hellier , c. 1995 , pasp , 107 , 307    ramsay , g. , buckley , d.  a.  h. , cropper , m. , & harrop - allin , m.  k. 1999 , mnras , 303 , 96    rana , v.  r. , singh , k.  p. , barrett , p.  e. , buckley , d.  a.  h. 2005 , apj , 625 , 351    schwarz , r. , schwope , a.  d. , staude , a. , remillard , r.  a. 2005 , a&a , 444 , 213    schmidt , g.  d. & stockman , h.  s. 1991 , apj , 371 , 749    schmidt , g.  d. & stockman , h.  s. 2001 , aj , 548 , 410    schwarzenberg - czerny , a. 1996 , apj , 460 , 107    schwope , a.  d. , mantel , k .- h .",
    ", & horne , k. 1997 , 319 , 894    schwope , a.  d. 2001 , lecture notes in physics 573 , 127    staubert , r. , friedrich , s. , pottschmidt , k. , benlloch , s. , schuh , s.  l. , kroll , p. , splittgerber , e. , rothschild , r. 2003 , a&a , 407 , 987    stockman , h.  s. , schmidt , g.  d. , lamb , d.  q. 1988 , apj , 332 , 282    warner , b. 1995 , _ cataclysmic variable stars _",
    "warner , b. 2002 , classical nova explosions , 637 , 3    watson , m.  g. et al .",
    "1995 , mnras , 273 , 681",
    "the spin - orbit beat cycle is the key to making sense of v1432 aql s behavior . to calculate the beat phase ( @xmath19 ) of an observation is to determine the relative orientation of the wd s magnetic field at that time",
    "however , since the wd spin period is variable , the beat period ( @xmath24 ) changes , too .",
    "for example , @xcite measured @xmath25 = 12150 seconds , leading to a @xmath2650 days . but by 2013",
    ", the spin period had decreased , leading to a beat period of @xmath162 days .",
    "this appendix outlines the procedure that we employ in our python script to calculate @xmath19 given the time of observation ( @xmath27 ) .    since",
    "@xmath24 is given by @xmath28 one solution is to determine the average length of the spin period ( @xmath29 ) between @xmath27 and @xmath30 .",
    "the first step in determining @xmath29 is to differentiate the cubic spin ephemeris from section  [ ephem ] with respect to the spin epoch @xmath31 , yielding a formula for the instantaneous spin period .",
    "@xmath29 is given by @xmath32 where @xmath33 is the number of spin cycles between @xmath27 and @xmath34 .",
    "@xmath33 , in turn , is found by applying the cubic formula to the spin ephemeris in order to express @xmath35 as a function of @xmath27 .",
    "once known , @xmath29 may be used in conjunction with @xmath36 in equation  [ beat_period_def ] to determine the average length of the beat period ( @xmath37 ) between @xmath27 and @xmath30 .",
    "thus , the number of beat cycles since @xmath34 is @xmath38 the decimal portion of which is @xmath19 . in our beat - phase calculations",
    ", we arbitrarily selected @xmath39 from our cubic spin ephemeris , so at @xmath40 , the spin phase is 0.0 and the orbital phase is 0.86 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the results of a twenty - eight - month photometric campaign studying v1432 aql , the only known eclipsing , asynchronous polar . </S>",
    "<S> our data show that both the residual eclipse flux and eclipse o@xmath0c timings vary strongly as a function of the spin - orbit beat period . relying upon a new model of the system , </S>",
    "<S> we show that cyclical changes in the location of the threading region along the ballistic trajectory of the accretion stream could produce both effects . </S>",
    "<S> this model predicts that the threading radius is variable , in contrast to previous studies which have assumed a constant threading radius . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , we identify a very strong photometric maximum which is only visible for half of the beat cycle . </S>",
    "<S> the exact cause of this maximum is unclear , but we consider the possibility that it is the optical counterpart of the third accreting polecap proposed by @xcite . finally , the rate of change of the white dwarf s spin period is consistent with it being proportional to the difference between the spin and orbital periods , implying that the spin period is approaching the orbital period asymptotically .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion disks  binaries : eclipsing  novae , cataclysmic variables  stars : individual ( v1432 aql , rx j1940.1 - 1025 )  stars : magnetic field  white dwarfs </S>"
  ]
}