{
  "article_text": [
    "o - rich asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) stars can be intense emitters of sio and h@xmath2o maser lines .",
    "there are many molecular lines which mase in agb stars @xcite , in particular those of sio ( for example @xcite ) and  ( for example @xcite ) .",
    "the most commonly studied are the 43-ghz sio lines ( @xmath0=1 and 2 , @xmath3=1@xmath10 ) and 22-ghz , ( @xmath4=6@xmath55@xmath6 ) .",
    "simultaneous frequency single dish monitoring of these lines , along with others , are an active research effort at the kvn , e.g. @xcite .",
    "sio masers have very high excitation levels and so appear at a distance of a few stellar radii , @xmath710@xmath8 cm , resulting in a more or less circular structure .",
    "h@xmath2o emission is found further from the star , @xmath710@xmath9 cm , with less well defined structures .",
    "a combined study of both masers can therefore produce a very accurate description of the structure and kinetics of these inner layers . in the inner - most regions of circumstellar shells , from which the whole circumstellar envelope will be formed , the dust grains are still growing and the gas has not yet attained its final expansion velocity , since expansion is supposed to be powered by radiation pressure onto the grains . the dynamics in the sio emitting region",
    "is dominated by pulsation , which propagates from the photosphere via shocks , and by the first stages of outwards acceleration @xcite .",
    "the  emission , on the other hand , occurs where the acceleration process is almost completed .",
    "their combined study therefore provides a powerful tool for the understanding the mass loss and the envelope formation processes in agb stars . to understand these mass loss processes we need to derive the underlying physical conditions from the observations of the maser emission . the theory for  maser production",
    "is understood to be due to collisions with hydrogen @xcite , however the theory of the sio maser excitation is the weakest link in the logical chain . for the sio molecule",
    "there are currently two models , one based on radiative pumping @xcite from the nir emission of the central star , the other on collisional pumping @xcite via the shock wave driven by stellar pulsation .",
    "if the latter is the correct model the prediction is that there would be no or little separation between the @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 sio emission regions , whereas for the former the prediction is that there would be such a separation .",
    "therefore the relative distribution of the spots at both the @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 sio transitions is important to discriminate between the different pumping mechanisms .",
    "existing multi - transitional maps @xcite suggest that the spots of these lines are generated in close proximity .",
    "one school of thought , however , reports that these emissions tend to be separated by about an au ( a mas at typical distances ) or that the typical radius for the sio transitions are different , thereby favouring the radiative pumping model ; the other finds the emission coincident , thereby favouring the collision pumping model .",
    "however in the majority of cases the basis for these conclusions is either the assumption of a common origin for the centres of the sio maser emissions or from alignment performed on cross correlation of the images .",
    "neither method provides _ bona - fide _ astrometry . only @xcite and @xcite provide robust bona - fide astrometric registration between the sio transitions , all from vera observations .",
    "in @xcite we observed rlmi and found only one site out of 17 spots produced overlapping @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 emission . @xcite and @xcite astrometrically observed raquilae and vycma respectively , also with vera observations . whilst @xcite had astrometrical information",
    "no comparison between the transitions was made .",
    "@xcite showed that only a few percent of the spots showed overlap between the @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 emission .",
    "of the other observations only @xcite and @xcite attempted astrometry but these had narrow limited bandwidth coverage limiting the delay ( and thus positional ) accuracy or had a poor absolute coordinate position limiting the final relative positional accuracy .",
    "in general the stellar positions are quite accurately measured for many agb stars , with data from the hipparcos satellite @xcite providing typical precision of 1mas and it is expected that gaia @xcite will provide precisions two orders of magnitude higher .",
    "it is therefore the vlbi studies of the sio and h@xmath2o maser spot distributions which are lacking accurate astrometric information in their relative and absolute coordinates of the maps of the different lines .",
    "given the difficulties in providing these measurements with the existing facilities we have been investigating new astrometric methods .",
    "the innovative multi - channel receiver @xcite of the korean vlbi network ( kvn ) @xcite is designed to allow the transfer of the calibration solutions derived from the measurements on one frequency band ( or ` channel ' in their nomenclature ) to the data from another frequency band .",
    "this provides the ideal design for experiments which benefit from simultaneous observations at different frequencies or spectral transitions .",
    "the kvn backend , combined with the source frequency phase referencing ( sfpr ) technique @xcite , allows astrometrical observations even at the highest frequencies .",
    "we know of no demonstrated upper limit and it would be expected to work as long as the tropospheric contributions were non - dispersive .",
    "tests are on - going with alma @xcite at frequencies as high as 350 ghz , and so far have been successful . in @xcite",
    "we make a detailed comparison between the kvn and the vlba for continuum sources .",
    "the frequencies of spectral line emission do not necessarily fall on integer ratios and in this paper we focus only on the additional considerations and steps required for the analytical method in this case . future publications with multiple epochs of data will be more suitable to explore the physical interpretation of the observations .",
    "we present here the results from simultaneous kvn observations of sio and h@xmath2o maser emission in rlmi , and the first ever bona - fide absolute astrometric alignement between   and ( @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 , j=1@xmath10 ) sio maser emission derived from the sfpr astrometric analysis .",
    "rlmi is an o - rich mira - type variable , with a pulsation period of about 373 days @xcite and a spectral type ranging between m6.5 , at the optical maximum , and m9.0 , at the minimum @xcite .",
    "its distance is assumed to be @xmath7 417 pc @xcite , derived from the well - known period - luminosity relation @xcite .",
    "rlmi is a well known emitter in  and sio lines .",
    "in particular it was accurately monitored by @xcite , who found the periodic variation in radio flux in - phase with the ir cycle , typical of mira - type stars .    in our previous publications ( e.g. @xcite )",
    "we strongly suggested that sfpr required an integer frequency ratio between the calibrating and the target frequencies .",
    "this is not always possible , particularly for spectral sources , where the line rest frequency sets the target frequencies .",
    "this effectively limited the spectral line science targets to be sio masers , as the rotational emission modes for this molecule have almost exact integer frequency ratios .",
    "here however we successfully phase referenced the sio maser emission with measurements on   maser emission , where the frequency ratio is around 1.9 .",
    "this small offset from integer had been found to be sufficient to prevent success in previous attempts to achieve astrometry @xcite .",
    "these early attempts failed because the calibration chain for the astrometric observations were insufficiently rigorous , as will be explained in the following sections .",
    "the contents of the paper are organised as follows .",
    "the observational setup is described in sect .",
    "[ sec : obs ] . in sect.[sec : red ] we describe the special data reduction strategy used to preserve the relative astrometry between the maser transitions . in sect.[sec : res ] we briefly present the first astrometrically aligned maps and in sect.[sec : dis ] we discuss the implications of this new method for the field .",
    "we carried out simultaneous dual - frequency observations in early test time with the kvn ( 2011 , march 4th ) using all three antennas at yonsei , ulsan and tamna .",
    "we recorded 8 narrow bands ( intermediate - frequency bands , or ifs ) of left hand circular ( lhc ) 16mhz bandwidth from the 22ghz system and the same from the 43ghz system .",
    "the ifs were set as widely separated and as randomly distributed as possible across the available system bandwidth of 500mhz at each band , whilst including the target transitions , in order to suppress the delay sidelobes . at 22ghz",
    "the ifs were with lower band edges at 21.810 , 21.826 , 21.858 , 21.922 , 22.050 , 22.114 , 22.162 , 22.226ghz .",
    "this places the   emission close to the centre of if8 . for the 43ghz system we had ifs with lower band edges at 42.810 , 42.826 , 42.858 , 42.922 , 43.050 , 43.114 , 43.162 , 43.226ghz , with the @xmath0=2 sio maser in if1 and",
    "@xmath0=1 sio maser in if6 .",
    "this distribution ensured that the first delay sidelobe , at @xmath716@xmath10sec , was less than 70% of the main peak .",
    "we alternated observations between the target rlmi and the bright continuum fringe - finder and calibrator source , 4c39.25 ( j0927 + 3902 ) , with 2 minute scans on each .",
    "the angular separation between these two sources is 5.9@xmath11 on the sky .",
    "the correlation was done with the difx correlator @xcite with 1 second averaging and a spectral resolution of 1024 channels per if , yielding maximum velocity resolutions of 0.1  and 0.2  for the line observations at 43 and 22 ghz , respectively , when using no spectral smoothing .",
    "the full details of sfpr are provided in two vlba memos @xcite and in two journal papers @xcite .",
    "the method is generally applicable , but has particular relevance in cases where the frequency is so high that conventional phase referencing ( pr ) can not , or struggles to , succeed .",
    "in pr the antennas nod rapidly between a calibrator ( assumed to be achromatic with no core - shift of its own , in both pr and sfpr ) and the target @xcite . for frequencies above 22ghz the coherence time becomes so short that it becomes increasingly difficult to slew from one source to the other and back within this period .",
    "additionally the number of calibrators strong enough to be detected , yet within the same tropospheric ` patch ' as the target , rapidly approaches zero .",
    "sfpr avoids this limit by observing at multiple frequencies and assuming that the atmosphere is dominated by non - dispersive contributions . at mm - wavelengths",
    "this is certainly the case as the troposphere is the limiting source of error , and the troposphere is non - dispersive . by self - calibrating on the observations of the target source at the low ( reference ) frequency and applying those solutions to the higher frequency data we correct for the dominant non - dispersive terms .",
    "we call the resultant calibrated high frequency dataset `` frequency phase transferred '' ( _ hereafter _ fpt ) , or _",
    "troposphere - free _ , target dataset .",
    "however the remaining dispersive errors prevent the recovery of the position of the target source , using a fourier inversion , at this stage .",
    "the residual dispersive contributions arising from the ionospheric propagation and other effects need to be removed using the alternating observations of the second source .",
    "this source can be visited less frequently and can lie significantly further from the target than in conventional pr , as the residual terms these observations correct for are much weaker and vary much more slowly than the dominant tropospheric and other non - dispersive effects . after this second calibration step the resultant sfpr - calibrated data - sets can be fourier inverted to provide the astrometrically registered target image between the two observing frequencies .",
    "as stated the first step does not provide astrometry - ready data , as shown in figure [ fig : phase ] .",
    "following equation 2 in @xcite , the fpt dataset has residual phases @xmath12 , that can be expressed as the sum of the contributions :    @xmath13    where @xmath14 , @xmath15 , @xmath16 and @xmath17 are the contributions arising from geometric , tropospheric , ionospheric and instrumental inadequacies in the delay model for , respectively , either the @xmath18 or @xmath19 frequency . @xmath20 and @xmath21 are the integer number of full phase rotations , or ambiguities in the phase , for each of the frequencies and @xmath22 is the frequency ratio between the high and low frequencies . at mm - wavelengths",
    "the geometric and tropospheric phase residual terms will scale with frequency and therefore these terms in parenthesis will cancel ; instrumental terms are assumed to have been dealt with using observations of a primary calibrator . whereas the ionospheric terms , although non - zero , are slow - changing in time and equal over a large angular separation .",
    "when @xmath22 is an integer the phases from the ambiguity terms @xmath23 are always integer multiples of 2@xmath24 , so are not relevant to the analysis .",
    "however when @xmath22 is not an integer phase jumps are introduced every time @xmath25 changes .",
    "that is at every introduction of an ambiguity in phase there will be a step in the phase of @xmath12 , which can not be corrected from the observations of the second source , as for the calibrator the number of ambiguities is independent along that different line of sight .",
    "clearly the solution for non - integer frequency ratio sfpr is equivalent to that required to avoid introducing any untracked lobe rotations in the visibility data .",
    "below we describe our data reduction procedure to retain the astrometric information , even when the ratio between the observing frequencies is not an integer number .",
    "we used the nrao aips software package for the data reduction @xcite .",
    "the information on measured system temperatures , telescope gains , and estimated bandpass corrections for the individual antennae were used to calibrate the raw correlation coefficients of the continuum calibrators and of the target spectral line source .",
    "figure [ fig : flow ] shows a schematic of the steps after this initial calibration for each source and for each frequency , indicating the transfer of the calibration tables .",
    "each of the four columns in that figure represents a different stage in the analysis .",
    "column 1 is for the reference source at the reference frequency , i.e. 4c39.25 at 22 ghz .",
    "the first step is to use the aips task fring , which is a global self - calibration algorithm @xcite , to estimate residual antenna - based vlbi phases , and its partial derivatives , with respect to frequency ( group delay , @xmath26 ) , and time ( phase delay rate ) , on the calibrator ( 4c39.25 ) data set .",
    "these terms result from unaccounted contributions from the atmospheric propagation and from errors in the array geometry during the data correlation .",
    "the performance of the digital filters in the kvn optics @xcite and backend @xcite is extremely good , particularly in the absence of instrumental phase offsets introduced by the electronics at each if and band .",
    "this enables the straight - forward use of all the ifs as an effective single bandwidth for the estimation of a more precise group delay ( since @xmath27 @xmath28 1/bandwidth ) @xcite . with a reasonable snr and 432mhz",
    "spanned bandwidth we expect delay accuracies of tens of picoseconds .",
    "we used the delays derived from this calibrator and frequency , solving for a single delay across all the ifs , in all the subsequent analysis of the other sources and frequencies .",
    "finally for this source and frequency we applied the small ( @xmath2910@xmath11 ) phase corrections which were constant across the whole experiment , to align the ifs .",
    "these were derived with the phase self - calibration task calib ; normally this would be done with fring on a single scan of a strong calibrator but we applied this as a refinement after the application of the initial calibration across all the observations as the single band delay corrections required for the kvn receiver were essentially zero .",
    "= 2 ( green dashed line ) and @xmath0=1 ( blue solid line ) determined from the sum of the model components fitted to the image cube.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    with these calibration steps completed we ( column 2 , fig .",
    "[ fig : flow ] ) calibrated and separated the if with the spectral line rlmi  maser data and applied the doppler corrections using the lsr standard of rest and radio velocity definitions ( with splat and cvel ) @xcite .",
    "additional corrections to the amplitudes could be derived with acfit at this point ; these were the order of 10% and are possibly from the uncorrected atmospheric opacity .",
    "the 22ghz phase referenced spectral line data could then be imaged and a channel with a compact , strong , point source dominated emission was selected for further analysis .",
    "it was immediately obvious where the peak of the brightness fell in the image and a single model component at the site of this peak was used for a phase refinement of the data , generated by calib , followed by re - imaging and deconvolution .",
    "this latter step , which is mainly correcting for the differential static atmospheric contributions , would loose the astrometrical registration if we were not able to find a reasonable apriori position for the conventionally phase referenced data and use that for the calibration model .",
    "therefore one of the requirements for successful non - integer sfpr is that an adequate initial phase referenced image can be formed .",
    "as the accuracy we require for this position is a few mas this is not an overly demanding requirement .",
    "the outcome is that the first step produces a conventional pr image of the  masers , and the second provides phase refinements to that dataset whilst retaining the location of the maximum emission .",
    "therefore the  maser cube is registered to the 4c39.25 calibrator .",
    "figure [ fig : k - maser - spec ] plots the spectra of the recovered emission ( i.e. the flux density in the clean components ) from the  image cube with a red dotted line .",
    "the 43ghz 4c39.25 data ( column 3 , fig .",
    "[ fig : flow ] ) was first adjusted so that the reference frequency value was set , using aips task puthead , to 43.620ghz ; that is double the reference frequency value of the lower frequency and outside the observed band .",
    "the frequency axis reference pixel was also changed .",
    "this ensured the labelling of the data was correct while preserving an integer reference frequency ratio and the phases could be doubled without considerations of the ambiguities .",
    "these two steps are specifically required for non - integer frequency ratio analysis .",
    "then we doubled the value of phases measured from the delay observations of 4c39.25 at 22ghz , using our own external script , to produce a fpt dataset .",
    "as a word of warning to users we mention that we do not recommend the aips task sncor for this purpose , as it does not do a good job when there are multiple ifs unless the separations between the ifs also scale by the same frequency ratio factor .",
    "however , it functions correctly when there is only one if per frequency band .",
    "we calibrated the remaining dispersive phase corrections , which were changing on @xmath7hour long timescales , with calib .    once again ( column 4 , fig .",
    "[ fig : flow ] ) we calibrated and separated those ifs with the rlmi sio maser data using splat , using the scaled 4c39.25 delays from 22ghz and the dispersive phase corrections from 4c39.25 at 43ghz .",
    "the doppler and amplitude corrections were calculated with cvel and acfit as before .",
    "we transferred the phase solutions from the  maser and scaled these values by the frequency ratio between the  and the sio maser @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 , that is 1.939 and 1.926 respectively .",
    "this data was then ready for imaging .",
    "however the images were not of very good quality and looking back at the solutions it was clear that in the observing gap at zenith , a turn of phase had been missed on the ulsan antenna in the second half of the experiment .",
    "we added in the phase jump that would have been introduced by this missed turn of phase ( @xmath30 for the two transitions , equal to 27@xmath11 and 22@xmath11 respectively ) using sncor .",
    "figure [ fig : snplt ] shows the measured phase corrections ( i.e. the phase residuals ) for the   maser and the derived corrections for the sio @xmath0=1 maser before and after adding in the lost phase turn . with these steps completed we were able to directly image the sio masers at the two transitions , which were now accurately registered to the   emission and that in turn to 4c39.25 .",
    "we imaged the data via the normal methods .",
    "given the limited number of baselines we found the most reliable deconvolution came with fitting a small number of model components to the data , which we did in difmap @xcite .",
    "figure [ fig : k - maser - spec ] plots with a blue and green solid and dashed lines the spectra of the recovered emission ( i.e. the flux density in the clean components ) from the sio image cubes .",
    "the images are shown in section [ sec : res ] .",
    "plotting of the cubes for the figures in this paper was done with miriad @xcite .",
    "= 1 maser by scaling with the non - integer frequency ratio between the two transitions both before correcting for the dropped turn of phase at zenith ( crosses ) and after correcting for the dropped turn of phase ( squares ) .",
    "the shift between the two solutions is 22@xmath11.,scaledwidth=90.0% ]",
    "our analysis followed the steps required to produce pr maps of the maser emission , with respect to 4c39.25 and sfpr maps of the two transitions of sio maser emission , with respect to the  maser emission .",
    "we present images of the astrometrically registered velocity averaged ( moment zero ) cubes of the  and sio maser emission ( figure [ fig : mom0 ] ) and astrometrically registered velocity cubes of the two transitions of sio maser emission ( figure [ fig : chan ] ) .",
    "the image coordinates are relative to the peak of the sio maser emission in @xmath0=1 . on figure",
    "[ fig : mom0 ] we have overlaid the position of the optical source rlmi , as measured by hipparcos , for the observing epoch ( 2011.17 ) with 1@xmath31 errors ( shown with a large cross ) @xcite .",
    "this position is listed in table [ tab : pos ] , which summarises all the astrometric positions we have measured .",
    "the hipparcos position has errors that are dominated by the measurement errors in the proper motion , multiplied by the two decades since those observations were made .",
    "we measured the peak of the  emission with imfit in the moment zero map , which is listed in table [ tab : pos ] with the formal errors on that fit .",
    "the much larger systematic errors are discussed in the following section .",
    "similarly the peak of the sio @xmath0=1 emission was measured and the position and errors are in the same table .",
    "we fitted a ring to a mask of the combined @xmath0=1 and 2 emission , by a least - square maximisation of the overlap of a ring model with the pixels in the image in either transition with emission greater than 10% of the peak in that transition .",
    "the centre of this ring should be the site of the centre of optical emission of rlmi .",
    "we take the width of the ring as the uncertainty in that position .",
    "the ring is shown as the circle , with the centre and the uncertainty shown with a small cross , in both figures [ fig : mom0 ] and [ fig : chan ] .",
    "the values are listed in table [ tab : pos ] .     &",
    "@xmath32&@xmath33 & @xmath34&@xmath35 + & h : m : s&mas & d : m : s & mas + predicted hipparcos position of rlmi&09:45:34.2867 & 42 & + 34:30:42.718 & 25 + peak of  maser emission&09:45:34.2890 & 0.6 & + 34:30:42.771 & 0.4 + peak of the sio @xmath0=1 emission & 09:45:34.2838 & 0.4 & + 34:30:42.765 & 0.4 + centre of sio emission ( @xmath0=2 and 1 ) & 09:45:34.2845&5 & + 34:30:42.759 & 5 +   + & @xmath36&@xmath37&@xmath38&@xmath39 + & mas / yr&mas / yr&mas / yr & mas / yr + combined hipparcos and vlbi observations & 2.3 & 0.3 & -3.9 & 0.3 +      the errors in table [ tab : pos ] are the formal errors in the fitting to the data . for the vlbi data these are completely dominated by the systematic effects , which we review here .    the  maser peak emission position is conventionally phase referenced to 4c39.25 , which has a very accurate absolute reference position with errors of about 0.1mas @xcite , but an angular separation of 5.9@xmath11 from the rlmi target . because of this large separation this would not normally be considered a good phase referencing calibrator .",
    "with such an observing setup , even in good weather , one would expect of the order of 30@xmath11 of phase noise from the dynamic tropospheric contributions , more than 100@xmath11 of phase noise from the static tropospheric contributions , 15@xmath11 of phase noise from the static ionospheric contributions and less than 1@xmath11 of phase noise from the dynamic ionospheric contributions ( following the formulae in @xcite ) .",
    "however we note that the atmospheric coherence of the kvn appears to be much better than those for the typical cases @xcite .",
    "this maybe due to better coherence between the atmosphere at the different sites , which could be from the short baselines or that the weather moves down off the chinese landmass with little disruption .",
    "various methods exist to reduce the dominant static tropospheric contributions , as reviewed in @xcite , but these were not followed in this experimental setup as we did not originally intend to attempt to achieve absolute astrometric connection . nevertheless on inspection of the data we realised that should be possible , as the peak of the brightness was clearly identifiable . to confirm that errors were minor we compared the peak flux before and after self calibration .",
    "this gives a measure of the scale of the random errors .",
    "if these errors are small one can be confident that the data is largely coherent and the astrometry is preserved .",
    "the fractional flux recovery we found for the whole data set was 86% , and 96% for the data taken in the first half of the experiment . for our analysis we took the postion of the water maser peak from a model fit of a single component to the data , limited to regions where the phase residuals were smallest .",
    "that is the data between yonsei and tamna , plus ulsan in the first half of the experiment , which had a fractional flux recovery of 91% .",
    "given the large angular separation between the sources we take a generous upper bound for the positional errors to be the resolution , 5@xmath403 mas .",
    "in future work we will attempt to improve on these limits . the optical star rlmi has a relatively poor a priori position from hipparcos .",
    "the uncertainty is in the proper motion measurement which , given that the hipparcos data is referenced to the observational epoch of 1991.25 , results in a position error of @xmath750mas .",
    "however as we phase reference the  maser emission to 4c39.25 the positional errors in our analysis are less . taking this as the dominant source of error in our analysis we use it to determine the final error bars in our astrometric measurements between the maser transitions .",
    "we use the relationship of @xmath41 , where @xmath42 is the astrometric accuracy of the reference ( i.e. the  emission ) and @xmath43 is the frequency gap between the transitions . in this case",
    "the registration would , with @xmath42 of 5mas , have an uncertainly of 2.5mas between the  and the sio and 35@xmath10as between the sio @xmath0=1 and 2 masers .",
    "in both cases the typical separations between , firstly the  and the sio masers and the second case between the sio @xmath0=1 and 2 masers , are much greater than these errors , which will allow us to have faith in any separations detected .",
    "sio rings are close to the surface of the star and water masers maybe ten times further out ( 10@xmath9 cm ) , which implies a typical separation of 60 mas between the sites of the  and the sio maser emission for a source at 1kpc ; that is the astrometric errors would be the order of 4% .",
    "an error in astrometry of 35@xmath10as between the sio maser transitions implies a physical scale of 5@xmath44 cm at 1kpc , or 0.5% of the typical ring diameter ( 10@xmath8 cm ) .",
    "the retention of absolute astrometric registration in the vlbi data allows us to compare the centre of the sio maser emission , where the star in rlmi should be , and the hipparcos position for this star .",
    "measuring from the astrometric image derived , we find the position offset between these to be -33 and 41 mas .",
    "the error budget on this measurement consists of the errors in the fit to the centre of the circle , which is 5mas , combined with the absolute astrometric accuracy of the  emission gives a total estimated error of 7mas .",
    "given the twenty years since the hipparcos reference epoch the errors in proper motion from the hipparcos data dominate .",
    "the centre of the circle of sio maser emission falls within the 1@xmath31 error ( @xmath45=35 mas ) in the hipparcos value of along @xmath46 and within the 2@xmath31 error ( @xmath47=25 mas ) in the hipparcos value of along @xmath38 @xcite .",
    "forthcoming observations from the gaia satellite @xcite will be able to confirm this vlbi result .",
    "combining the vlbi position we have derived in 2011.17 , with uncertainties in the fit and those of the  maser emission to give a total of 7mas , with that of hipparcos from 1991.25 , with uncertainties of 1mas , we can derive the proper motion of rlmi over the twenty year baseline and this is given in table [ tab : pos ] .",
    "subtracted from ( both ) the reported vlbi positions would be the core shift ( and any other structure phases ) from 4c39.25 which , because it was assumed to be achromatic in the analysis , would contaminate these results .",
    "these effects are far below the levels of accuracy achieved in this analysis but will become significant when global baselines are included .",
    "we report here astrometrically aligned images of the and sio masers around rlmi .",
    "this is the first demonstration of the sfpr method with non - integer frequency phase ratios , and the first demonstration of the combination of sfpr with pr to retain absolute astrometry through out the analytical chain .",
    "our error analysis cautiously sets large errors on the absolute position of the  maser emission , and these errors are matched by the uncertainty in the ring fitting to find the centre of the sio maser emission , but these are still a major improvement in the uncertainty in the hipparcos position for this source .",
    "there have been previous attempts to make astrometrical observations for agb stars with sio and  masers .",
    "a limited number were made with vera and so provide bona - fide astrometry , the others do not .",
    "now , with the new methods discussed here , mm - vlbi astrometric line experiments will become much more straight forward and , we hope , widely implemented .",
    "we will , now the method is understood , undertake a major monitoring campaign of interesting agbs hosting  and sio masers , and massive star forming regions hosting   and  masers  potentially up to and including the 95ghz line . to aid other users who wish to follow the same analysis we provide a list of what we consider the required conditions for a successful outcome .",
    "* sfpr requires that the calibrator is within the same ionospheric region ( the ` patch ' ) for dispersive contributions .",
    "fortunately the patch size scales with frequency so for high frequencies this will be very large .",
    "the actual scale size at mm - frequencies is under investigation ; extrapolating from measurements at lower frequencies ( e.g. @xcite ) is not possible as the approximations are no longer valid . in @xcite",
    "we have successfully used calibrators 10@xmath11 from the target .",
    "* sfpr for spectral - line sources must use the delays derived from the continuum calibrator source , as the line of sight corrections to the delays are not derivable on the line source . therefore the antenna position errors must be sufficiently small ( less than a few cm ) so that they do not introduce rapid phase changes which could not be tracked on the other source .",
    "* non - integer frequency ratio sfpr requires the delay solutions to be of sufficient quality to allow extrapolation to a reference point outside of the observing band . a 0.05 nsec error in the delay",
    "would introduce a 9@xmath11 error in the phase for a point 500mhz from the frequency reference pixel .",
    "we suggest that one should try and ensure this extrapolation is no further than the bandwidth spanned . *",
    "non - integer frequency ratio sfpr requires that the phase solutions can be tracked across wraps of phase ambiguities , so continuous observations without gaps are desirable . *",
    "non - integer frequency ratio sfpr also requires that the positions of the target source at the lower frequency are accurate .",
    "the absolute error in the target position at the reference frequency , when applied to the target frequency , is diluted by the fractional frequency span @xmath48 . for sfpr",
    "this fractional span approaches integer so that the errors in the registration between the frequencies can approach the absolute positional error .",
    "if needed the positions can be derived by conventionally phase referencing the low frequency data . in this case",
    "the source switching needs to be sufficiently fast to allow phase referencing at the low frequency . * for arrays which do nt support ( yet ) simultaneous multichannel receivers ( e.g. the vlba ) fast frequency switching will still work with this approach .",
    "fast frequency switching is limited in the maximum frequencies which can be supported ( as the variation in the rates can not be higher than the cycle time of the frequency switching ) . in our experience fast frequency switching between frequencies as high as 43 and 86ghz",
    "is achievable in good conditions with switching cycle period of 1 minute .",
    "this is about the maximum speed possible with the vlba sub - reflector rotator .",
    "we have demonstrated that the kvn is capable of performing non - integer source frequency phase referencing on simultaneously observed line sources , between  and sio in this particular case .",
    "the method would also be suitable for  and 44ghz  targets .",
    "this would provide astrometric positions between all the transitions , and potentially ( if the  masers are phase referenced ) absolute astrometric positions for all the transitions , as in this case .",
    "our method allows a high quality mas - level astrometric alignment of the two sio frequencies with respect to the   emission .",
    "the registration to 4c39.25 and the absolute coordinate system is based on how far one trusts the conventional phase referencing .",
    "we have explained why we believe that the errors in the  maser position are less than 5mas .",
    "this provides a much improved position for the centre of a ring containing the sio emission , which would be the site of the optical source .",
    "this position is within the errors from the hipparcos observations .",
    "the error on the fit to the centre of the circle is 5mas , which when combined with the absolute astrometric accuracy of the  emission gives a total estimated error of 7mas . from the new position we are able to improve on the proper motion derived by hipparcos for the optical star rlmi , improving the precision by nearly an order of magnitude , to 0.3mas / yr .    the registration between the two sio transitions is expected to be the order of 35@xmath10as , which will allow for very exact separation of the location of the different masing components .",
    "the registration of the  and the sio maser emission has an error of 2.5mas .",
    "detailed analysis of the sio emission structure is left for future publications , when we have monitored the sio masers through the full cycle of the pulsation period .",
    "additionally in the near future we are hopeful of being able to access longer baselines to japan , spain or australia , which would provide a desirable boost in resolution .",
    "we are grateful to all staff members and students in the kvn who helped to operate the array .",
    "the kvn is a facility operated by the korea astronomy and space science institute .",
    "rd acknowledges the support of the korean ministry of science , ict & future planning brainpool fellowship ( 121s-1 - 2 - 0228 ) .",
    "we acknowledge with thanks the variable star observations from the aavso international database , contributed by observers worldwide , that provided the optical phase for our observations .",
    "we wish to thank the anonymous referee , whose comments improved the presentation of the material in this paper .",
    "beasley , a.  j. , & conway , j.  e.  1995 , very long baseline interferometry and the vlba , 82 , 327 benson , p.  j. , & little - marenin , i.  r.  1996 , , 106 , 579 boboltz , d.  a. , & wittkowski , m.  2005 , , 618 , 953 bowen , g.  h.  1988 , , 329 , 299 bujarrabal , v.  1994 , , 285 , 971    choi y. k. , hirota t. , honma m. , kobayashi h. , proceedings of the 9th european vlbi network symposium , `` distance to vy canis majoris with vera '' .",
    "sissa , trieste ; 2008 .",
    "cooke , b. , & elitzur , m.  1985 , , 295 , 175 cotton , w.  d. , ragland , s. , & danchi , w.  c.  2011 , , 736 , 96 cotton , w.  d. , ragland , s. , pluzhnik , e.  a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 188 , 506 cotton , w.  d. , ragland , s. , pluzhnik , e.  a. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 187 , 107 cotton , w.  d. , ragland , s. , pluzhnik , e.  a. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 185 , 574 cotton , w.  d. , ragland , s. , pluzhnik , e. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 704 , 170 cotton , w.  d. , perrin , g. , & lopez , b.  2008 , , 477 , 853        cotton , w.  d.  1995 , very long baseline interferometry and the vlba , 82 , 189 desmurs , j.  f. , bujarrabal , v. , colomer , f. , & alcolea , j.  2000 , , 360 , 189 deller , a.  t. , brisken , w.  f. , phillips , c.  j. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 123 , 275 dodson , r. , & rioja , m.  j.  2009 , vlba science memo # 31 dodson , r. , rioja , m.  j. , jung t.h .",
    ", 2011 , east asia vlbi workshop , lijiang , china .",
    "t . , lee , j .- w . ,",
    "kang , j. , et al .  2008 , international journal of infrared and millimeter waves , 29 , 69 han , s .-",
    "t . , lee , j .- w . ,",
    "kang , j. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 125 , 539 honma , m. , tamura , y. , & reid , m.  j.  2008 , , 60 , 951 humphreys , e.  m.  l. , gray , m.  d. , yates , j.  a. , field , d. , bowen , g. , & diamond , p.  j.  2000 , evn symposium 2000 , proceedings of the 5th european vlbi network symposium , 197      griesen , e. w. , 2003 , in information handling in astronomy  historical vistas , heck , a. ed . , kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , isbn 1 - 4040 - 1178 - 4 , astrophysics and space science library , 285 , 109 .",
    "lee , s .- s . , et al .",
    "2014 , , 147 , 77 kamohara , r. , bujarrabal , v. , honma , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 510 , a69 keenan p.c . ,",
    "garrison , r.f . ,",
    "deutsch , a.j .",
    ", 1974 , , 28 , 271 kim , j. , cho , s .- h .",
    ", oh , c.  s. , & byun , d .- y .",
    "2010 , , 188 , 209 oh , s .-",
    "j . , et al . ,",
    "2011 , publications of the astronomical society of japan , 63 , 1229              rioja , m. , dodson , r. , malarecki , j. , & asaki , y.  2011 , , 142 , 157 rioja , m. , & dodson , r.  2011 , , 141 , 114 rioja , m.  j. , & dodson , r.  2009 , vlba science memo # 32 rioja , m.  j. , dodson , r. , kamohara , r. , et al .",
    "2008 , , 60 , 1031 rioja , m.  j. , dodson , r. , et al .",
    "2014 , manuscript aj-12041    schwab , f.  r. , & cotton , w.  d.  1983 , , 88 , 688 shepherd , m.  c. , pearson , t.  j. , & taylor , g.  b.  1994 , , 26 , 987 soria - ruiz , r. , alcolea , j. , colomer , f. , bujarrabal , v. , desmurs , j .- f . , marvel , k.  b. , & diamond , p.  j.  2004 , , 426 , 131 soria - ruiz , r. , colomer , f. , alcolea , j. , bujarrabal , v. , desmurs , j .- f .",
    ", & marvel , k.  b.   2005 , , 432 , l39 soria - ruiz , r. , alcolea , j. , colomer , f. , bujarrabal , v. , & desmurs , j .- f .  2007 , , 468 , l1 sault , r.  j. , teuben , p.  j. , & wright , m.  c.  h.  1995 , astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , 77 , 433 thompson , a.  r. , moran , j.  m. , & swenson , g.  w. , jr .  2001 , ",
    "interferometry and synthesis in radio astronomy by a.  richard thompson , james m.  moran , and george w.  swenson , jr .",
    "2nd ed .",
    "new york : wiley"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> oxygen - rich asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) stars can be intense emitters of sio ( @xmath0=1 and 2 , j=1@xmath10 ) and h@xmath2o maser lines at 43 and 22 ghz , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> vlbi observations of the maser emission provide a unique tool to probe the innermost layers of the circumstellar envelopes in agb stars . </S>",
    "<S> nevertheless , the difficulties in achieving astrometrically aligned  and @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 sio maser maps have traditionally limited the physical constraints that can be placed on the sio maser pumping mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> we present phase referenced simultaneous spectral - line vlbi images for the sio @xmath0=1 and @xmath0=2 , j=1@xmath10 , and h@xmath2o maser emission around the agb star rlmi , obtained from the korean vlbi network ( kvn ) . </S>",
    "<S> the simultaneous multi - channel receivers of the kvn offer great possibilities for astrometry in the frequency domain . with this facility </S>",
    "<S> we have produced images with bona - fide absolute astrometric registration between high frequency maser transitions of different species to provide the positions of the  maser emission , and the centre of the sio maser emission , and hence reducing the uncertainty in the proper motion for rlmi by an order of magnitude over that from hipparcos . </S>",
    "<S> this is the first successful demonstration of source frequency phase referencing for mm - vlbi spectral - line observations and also where the ratio between the frequencies is not an integer . </S>"
  ]
}