{
  "article_text": [
    "solar observations provide detailed views on prominences , which consist of cool , dense material suspended in the corona in a central axial sheet - like filament spine , made of many threads and connected to lower altitudes by means of barbs  @xcite . on the northern ( southern ) solar hemisphere ,",
    "one encounters mostly dextral ( sinistral ) flux ropes with anticlockwise ( clockwise ) winding along the axis , wherein barbs preferentially form in a right - bearing ( left - bearing ) fashion @xcite",
    ". prominences also show rich internal dynamics throughout , with counter - streaming plasma flows hinting at field connections down to the photosphere  @xcite .",
    "recent solar dynamics observatory @xcite ( sdo ) observations using the atmospheric imaging assembly @xcite ( aia ) provided further evidence for flux rope ( fr ) topologies underpinning coronal cavities  @xcite , the dark and low - density coronal tunnels surrounding the prominence proper . when viewed along the filament spine at the solar limb ,",
    "extreme ultraviolet ( euv ) observations detect prominence horns emanating into the cavity  @xcite . all these aspects point to intrinsically three - dimensional condensation processes during formation , a phase only recently imaged in multiple euv channels  @xcite .",
    "models that corroborate the interpretation of in situ condensation as a result of runaway cooling through thermal instability  @xcite have mainly been one - dimensional ( 1d ) simulations  @xcite .",
    "the 1d approach has been combined with rigid three - dimensional ( 3d ) field lines from magnetohydrodynamic ( mhd ) simulations ignoring gravity and thermodynamics  @xcite , or from previous isothermal fr scenarios  @xcite .",
    "although this combination gives hints of how projection effects matter within 3d topologies  @xcite , true 3d modeling is essential to understand the magnetic and thermal structure of prominences and their relation with surrounding coronal cavities , as is demonstrated and presented here .",
    "we start with a fr structure already obeying macroscopic force balance between gravity , pressure gradients and the lorentz force , and an overlying magnetic arcade that has a left - skewed orientation with respect to the fr axis , typical for dextral fr .",
    "this configuration was generated in an isothermal mhd simulation  @xcite at finite plasma beta , by subjecting a linear force - free arcade to vortical footpoint motions that alter the arcade magnetic shear , and then to converging footpoint motions towards the polarity inversion line ( pil ) .",
    "this boundary driven evolution established the characteristic sigmoidal or s - shaped fr .",
    "this gravitationally stratified , stable fr has an elliptical cross - sectional shape , and enough ( order @xmath2 g ) hot ( 1 mk ) plasma to form a small prominence in the upwardly concave parts of the magnetic configuration .",
    "based on this configuration , we start an mhd simulation using mpi - amrvac  @xcite .",
    "the mhd equations have their usual form  @xcite , including a total energy evolution with purely field - aligned thermal conduction of the form @xmath3 ( using the coefficient @xmath4 erg s@xmath5 cm@xmath5 k@xmath7 ) , and tabulated losses through @xmath8 scaling with hydrogen number density squared , and a cooling table from  @xcite . in this work , the coronal heating term @xmath9 is parametrized as @xmath10 with @xmath11 erg @xmath12 s@xmath5 , @xmath13 g , @xmath14 mm , and @xmath15 denoting the local instantaneous field strength .",
    "we employ a shock - capturing scheme combining an hll flux evaluation with third - order limited reconstruction  @xcite , in a three - step runge kutta time marching  @xcite .",
    "thermal conduction is solved by a source - split strategy , using explicit sub - cycling within each time step .",
    "as we start from an isothermal mhd configuration , we first modify the thermodynamics in the initial condition , to include a chromospheric layer .",
    "this modification affects a bottom layer from 3 mm to 7 mm , where the temperature is replaced by a hyperbolic tangent profile which connects a 10,000 k chromosphere to the 1 mk corona with a transition region at 6 mm .",
    "the density in the bottom layer is then recalculated assuming hydrostatic equilibrium with bottom number density @xmath0 @xmath12 .",
    "the simulation extends in @xmath16 mm , @xmath17 mm , and height @xmath18 mm , with an effective mesh of @xmath19 , using three grid levels .",
    "we impose zero velocity and extrapolate magnetic field with zero gradient ( ensuring vanishing divergence ) at all boundaries .",
    "we use zero - gradient extrapolation for density and pressure on sides , fixed gravitationally stratified density and pressure at bottom , and extrapolate density and pressure at top via zero - gradient temperature extrapolation assuming hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "in the first 20 minutes , the combination of anisotropic thermal conduction , radiative losses , and parametrized heating cause readjustments from the initial state . the transition region remains situated at about 6 mm height . in a base layer immediately above the newly realized transition region , radiative loss exceeds coronal heating and the resulting decrease of gas pressure breaks force balance .",
    "this leads to some coronal plasma sliding down along arched field lines in the arcade and along helical field lines in the fr and adjusting to chromosphere conditions . due to this weight loss ,",
    "the fr rises slowly to a new balanced position with its axis now at 43 mm height , 2 mm higher than in the initial state . during previous fr formation process  @xcite ,",
    "the formed helical field lines bring up high density plasma and compress plasma inside with lorentz force toward the fr axis .",
    "therefore the fr density became enhanced .",
    "although the coronal heating is tuned to approximately maintain the initial 1 mk temperature , thermal equilibrium does not exist in the fr initially where the local high density causes the temperature to decrease due to stronger radiative cooling than coronal heating . at @xmath20 minutes , a central region at a height of 28 mm reaches temperatures as low as 20,000 k , below which the optically thin radiative losses quickly diminish . to quantify this in situ condensation ,",
    "figure  [ fmass ] shows the evolution of total mass and average number density of condensed plasma in the corona , i.e. denser than @xmath21 @xmath12 and found above 9 mm .",
    "this figure shows two phases : a first dynamic phase up to about 100 minutes , followed by a more stable evolution up to 215 minutes .",
    "starting with the dynamic phase , the localized cooling creates a low gas pressure well , which sucks in ambient plasma along field lines , up to a point where its density increases up to 25 times the coronal value .",
    "this in situ plasma condensation attracts coronal plasma to the middle , while simultaneously counteracted by downflows that drain off matter to two feet of the fr on both sides of the pil .",
    "the s - shaped topology of the fr enforces this drainage to happen in opposite directions on each side of the fr central axis , so a spontaneous counter - streaming shearing flow develops inside the fr .",
    "these counter - streaming flows stretch and attenuate the ongoing condensation which partially streams from the center to both ends of the fr along helical magnetic field lines .",
    "while the condensation density can thereby go down to @xmath22 @xmath12 , its temperature remains below 30,000 k at all times .",
    "the maximal velocity of drained condensation fragments in this dynamic phase reaches up to 100 km s@xmath5 , with typical values of 25 km s@xmath5 throughout the fr .",
    "this can be compared with the few 10 km s@xmath5 originally reported  @xcite for counter - streaming flows in prominences .",
    "this counter - streaming leads to the sharp drop in mass and density seen in figure  [ fmass ] at around @xmath23 minutes , but gradually slows down , leaving behind a condensation fragment in the concave upward field region which reaches a maximal density of @xmath24 @xmath12 at @xmath25 minutes , remaining at a total mass between @xmath0 g down to @xmath26 g throughout .",
    "this condensation is analogous to a prominence , which stays approximately motionless for several hours .",
    "we visualize a stable state at @xmath27 minutes in figure  [ fend ] ( an animated view from varying perspectives is additionally provided as a movie ) .",
    "we show four views , each time containing selected helical field lines colored by temperature , the prominence in a wireframe mesh view as colored by density , and the bottom magnetogram .",
    "panels ( a ) & ( b ) show side views with a zoom to the prominence body in panel ( b ) .",
    "top and axial views are shown in panels ( c ) & ( d ) , respectively .",
    "the prominence is visualized by a wireframe connecting all cells where the density exceeds @xmath21 @xmath12 .",
    "the prominence has a roughly slab - like shape above the pil , with the bottom edge showing more curved variation than the top . near the left end of the prominence in panel",
    "( c ) , a branch protrudes to the right side of the prominence axis , leaning towards lower altitudes .",
    "this protrusion is reminiscent of prominence barbs , although we emphasize that no parasitic polarity in the bottom magnetogram is present .",
    "the barb develops at the site where most prominence mass first regathers and bends down local field lines , following the counter - streaming drainage to both feet , where simulation asymmetries cause this to happen off - center .",
    "this differs from the interpretation where barbs or feet extend from the prominence body down to parasitic polarity patches in the photosphere , explored in linear force - free models by  @xcite .",
    "the barb in our simulation obeys the right - bearing character , as its original flow pattern followed the helical field lines .",
    "the total size of the simulated prominence is about 46.4 mm long , 13.1 mm tall , and 4.8 mm thick and its top reaches 26 mm height .",
    "its density ranges from @xmath21 @xmath12 to @xmath28 @xmath12 with on average @xmath29 @xmath12 , while coronal plasma at the same altitudes has an average density of @xmath30 @xmath12 . since the magnetic field threading through the prominence is pointing from negative regions to positive in the underlying magnetogram , it is an inverse - polarity prominence .",
    "the field strength in the prominence increases slightly with height from 7.5 g at the bottom to 8.8 g at the top with an average value of 8.2 g. the angle between the prominence axis and the magnetic field vector in the horizontal plane is around 18@xmath31 . at the prominence",
    "lateral boundaries , the field makes an angle to the horizontal plane of around 29@xmath31 , consistent with observations  @xcite .",
    "we synthesize quantities comparable with remote sensing observations following  @xcite .",
    "the flux of optically thin emission measured by an imaging instrument in a certain wavelength band @xmath32 is treated as a line - of - sight ( los ) integral through the emitting plasma , @xmath33,\\ ] ] where @xmath34 is distance along the line of sight .",
    "the pixel response @xmath35 is in data number ( dn ) per second .",
    "the instrumental response @xmath36 is function of electron density @xmath37 and temperature @xmath38 , and takes into account atomic physics and instrument properties in band @xmath32 .",
    "we use the chianti 7 catalogue @xcite and aia routines @xcite in solarsoft .",
    "the los integral is evaluated by interpolation - based ray - tracing with a uniform grid of rays passing through the block - adaptive octree grid .",
    "we make synthetic images along the @xmath39-axis direction in four euv wavelength bands 304 , 171 , 193 , and 211   of the sdo / aia instrument , which sample temperatures from 0.08 , 0.8 , 1.5 and 1.8 mk , respectively .",
    "we describe the onset of the in situ process as seen in euv images , and then discuss synthetic views for the prominence end state .    in figure  [ fevo ] , representative synthetic views along the @xmath39-axis , taken at times 11.4 , 17.2 , and 21.5 minutes from the top row to the bottom respectively ,",
    "reveal the dynamic process of plasma condensation as seen in 304 , 171 , and 211   euv bands .",
    "the 304   channel roughly corresponds to 0.08 mk , but has another emission contribution from the si slowromancap11@ 303.33   line formed at a coronal temperature of 1.6 mk .",
    "although its response is four times weaker than the main he slowromancap2@ lines of this channel , its emission contribution dominates in the off - limb corona in this 304   channel @xcite . therefore , the million kelvin , relatively dense coronal plasma trapped in the lower part of the fr originally produces a bright dispersive cloud in this 304   channel as shown in panel ( a ) . at the corresponding time of 11.4 minutes , this cloud plasma temperature ranges from 0.7 mk to 0.8 mk , and is most prominent in the 171   channel but also visible at 211  . the temperature response in this 211   channel has a weak wide - spread contribution from 0.16 mk to 1 mk , although it peaks at 1.8 mk . due to the initial gradual thermodynamic adjustment",
    ", the center of the cloud progressively cools from 1 mk to 0.02 mk during the first 20 minutes , while the density at the center increases by 67 % .",
    "the resulting pressure change generates flows into the cooling core with speed up to 74 km s@xmath5 . because hot channel emission decreases as the temperature drops ,",
    "the bright cloud is seen to fade by all these euv views from the top row to the middle row . as the counter - streaming dynamics removes mass from the cloud to both ends of the fr as mentioned before",
    ", the outer layer of the cloud gets attenuated and further darkens the cloud . in panel",
    "( c ) , a bright core forms in the fr at 28 mm height where the temperature at the center of the cloud drops as low as 0.02 mk .",
    "this cool core marks the site where thermal instability sets in , which subsequently dramatically increases in density while growing in spatial extent to a large - scale prominence . at this early onset phase ,",
    "this cool core is at first dark in the other two hot channels ( see panel ( f ) and ( i ) ) , while later on it is seen with bright edges in figs .",
    "[ fsyn]-[fcav ] .",
    "the bright ring around this cool core in the 304   channel is due to the optically thin treatment where we cumulatively integrate strong emission along the prominence - corona transition regions ( pctr ) . in reality",
    ", prominences have more uniform luminance in the 304   channel , because prominence plasma is optically thick for the euv line he slowromancap2@ 304   and most contribution is due to scattering of this euv emission from the sun @xcite . in 211",
    "  channel views , we witness the formation of a dark cavity simultaneously with the prominence formation .",
    "the cavity has an elliptic shape and encompasses the forming prominence . in this early phase ,",
    "the formation of the cavity is primarily due to cooling of the dense fr region , since the density at the same altitude is comparable with or even larger than the surrounding hot arcade .",
    "later on , as the mass drainage of the fr continues , the cavity temperature recovers to values above a million kelvin and the cavity density drops below the value of the surrounding coronal arcade .",
    "the dark bottom layers of the chromosphere shown no emission in euv lines due to their low temperature .",
    "the prominence loaded fr in figure  [ fend ] maintains its shape at approximately constant total mass for about two hours .",
    "we take the snapshot at @xmath27 minutes to analyze this stable state with synthetic views in all four euv bands , shown in figure  [ fsyn ] . from these",
    ", one detects that the pctr shows stronger emission than internal prominence regions , and prominently appears in outline in all bands .",
    "this is because the temperature variation in the pctr yields ( cumulative ) emission contributions to all four euv bands in the optically thin approximation we adopted .",
    "the lower part of the prominence is seen to tilt to the left near its front end and to the right when close to the back end .",
    "these front and back pctr outlines overlap and give a strong emission spot near the bottom .",
    "the right - protruding tail or barb extends to lower altitude , as typical for prominence barbs .",
    "the prominence in 304   is slightly thinner than in the hotter bands , since cooler cores are enveloped by hotter layers . in 193  ,",
    "the coronal dark cavity is most noticeable . in 193   and 211   channels",
    ", one can detect the horn like structures that extend from the top of the prominence to the upper cavity .",
    "the extension of these horns connect in the top region of the cavity , which forms a closed ellipse dividing the cavity into two parts , namely an inner elliptical dark region and an outer dark ring .",
    "the density distribution inside the cavity is 20 % to 30 % lower than in the surrounding arcade at the same height , while the temperature is slightly higher , about 2 mk . these density and temperature values of the cavity are consistent with observations @xcite .",
    "in fact , we can quantify the field topology precisely , and therefore combine a synthetic view in 193  , with projected field line views in figure  [ fcav ] .",
    "we saturated the view in the lower corona , to show the cavity and horns with better contrast .",
    "the axis of the fr is the thicker green field line in figure  [ fcav ] .",
    "it is then seen that there are two kinds of field lines in the fr threading through the dark cavity .",
    "arched field lines , with their central points above the axis of the fr , have been twisted but have no concave upward parts to collect and support prominence plasma .",
    "concave upward helical field lines , with their central points below the fr axis , have progressively larger concave parts as they reach lower altitudes .",
    "the outer dark ring is threaded by twisted arched loops overlying the fr .",
    "for all these field lines , their paired footpoints are closer to the pil and each other when their central points are higher .",
    "the horns are actually los emission from prominence - loaded helical field lines that maintain denser coronal plasma than prominence - free field lines of the cavity . during the cavity - prominence formation ,",
    "density depletion occurs not only on prominence - loaded field lines threading cavity and prominence where in situ condensation happens  @xcite , but also on prominence - free field lines due to mass drainage into the chromosphere .",
    "the magnetic structure changes slowly and smoothly from the horns to the central cavity on top of the prominence , although the thermal structure changes significantly .",
    "we demonstrated in situ condensation occuring in a dextral fr configuration , leading to a macroscopic prominence . using synthetic sdo / aia views , both the onset as well as",
    "the final prominence appearance is analyzed .",
    "the establishment of a coronal cavity surrounding the prominence is discussed in relation to the field topology and the evolving thermodynamics .",
    "the end state prominence is relatively low in total mass , but displays many characteristics in line with recent observations , including the distinctive horns as seen at euv wavelengths . before settling into a stable prominence configuration ,",
    "counterstreaming flows on both fr halves develop . as a remnant of this flow ,",
    "a barb persists on one side of the prominence spine .",
    "we plan to explore variations of the imposed heating @xmath9 ( e.g. using impulsive heating as in 1d models  @xcite ) and of the initial fr dimension and topology , following our strategy to start from an isothermally formed fr .",
    "future work will need to include thermal condensation in self - consistent simulations of fr formation , and handle the optically thick conditions in the prominence and pctr .",
    "this research was supported by projects goa/2015 - 014 ( 2014 - 2018 ku leuven ) , fwo pegasus , and the interuniversity attraction poles programme by the belgian science policy office ( iap p7/08 charm ) .",
    "the simulations used the vsc ( flemish supercomputer center ) funded by hercules foundation and flemish government .            , p. , edwards , c. , lemen , j. , rausch , a. , schrijver , c. , shine , r. , shing , l. , stern , r. , tarbell , t. , title , a. , wolfson , c.  j. , soufli , r. , spiller , e. , gullikson , e. , mckenzie , d. , windt , d. , golub , l. , podgorski , w. , testa , p. , & weber , m. 2012 , , 275 , 41                                                                             minutes .",
    "shown are field lines colored by temperature in blue - red , the prominence colored by density in rainbow , and the bottom magnetogram in grey .",
    "panels ( a),(c ) , and ( d ) are side , top , and axial views , respectively . panel ( b ) zooms into ( a ) .",
    "view ( c ) shows the filament spine within the s - shaped fr , with the barb near its left end . an animation is provided .",
    ", width=556 ]    -axis at time 11.4 , 17.2 , and 21.5 minutes from top to bottom , respectively .",
    "approximate wavelength and peak temperature sensitivity are from left to right : 304   ( 0.08 mk ) , 171   ( 0.8 mk ) , and 211   ( 1.8 mk ) . ]",
    "the wavelength and peak temperature are from left to right : 304   ( 0.08 mk ) , 171   ( 0.8 mk ) , 193   ( 1.5 mk ) , and 211   ( 1.8 mk ) . in the latter two wavelengths we see prominence horns and a central dark cavity . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> prominences in the solar corona are hundredfold cooler and denser than their surroundings , with a total mass of @xmath0 up to @xmath1 g. here we report on the first comprehensive simulations of three - dimensional , thermally and gravitationally stratified magnetic flux ropes , where in situ condensation to a prominence happens due to radiative losses . after a gradual thermodynamic adjustment </S>",
    "<S> , we witness a phase where runaway cooling happens while counter - streaming shearing flows drain off mass along helical field lines . after this drainage , a prominence - like condensation resides in concave upward field regions , and this prominence retains its overall characteristics for more than two hours . while condensing , the prominence establishes a prominence - corona transition region , where magnetic field - aligned thermal conduction is operative during the runaway cooling . </S>",
    "<S> the prominence structure represents a force - balanced state in a helical flux rope . </S>",
    "<S> the simulated condensation demonstrates a right - bearing barb , as a remnant of the drainage . </S>",
    "<S> synthetic images at extreme ultraviolet wavelengths follow the onset of the condensation , and confirm the appearance of horns and a three - part structure for the stable prominence state , as often seen in erupting prominences . </S>",
    "<S> this naturally explains recent solar dynamics observatory views with the atmospheric imaging assembly on prominences in coronal cavities demonstrating horns . </S>"
  ]
}