{
  "article_text": [
    "the califa survey ( snchez et al .  2012 ) provides a morphologically unbiased and statistically well defined view of the stellar and ionised gas properties of up to 600 galaxies in the redshift range @xmath4 .",
    "the long wavelength coverage ( 34007300 ) allows an accurate determination of the stellar population and ionised gas properties ( marino et al .",
    "2013 , prez et al.2013 ) .    in the work we present here we use the dedicated set of high - spectral resolution observations over 37504550  with the ppak v1200 grating to derive high - quality stellar kinematics for a sample of 300 galaxies from elliptical e to spiral sd morphological types .",
    "the wide field - of - view of the pmas / ppak instrument routinely covers well beyond the effective radius of the observed galaxies .",
    "the combination of the apparent specific stellar angular momentum @xmath0  and the ellipticity @xmath2 ( fig .",
    "[ fig : fig1 ] ) is an often used diagnostic tool to constrain the dynamical structure and evolution of galaxies . if all galaxies would be simple oblate isotropic rotators they should follow the red curve or lie to the left of it when viewed away from edge - on .",
    "the green curve indicates the demarcation line between fast rotator ( fr , circles ) and slow rotator ( sr , squares ) galaxies as inferred from the atlas@xmath3 survey of elliptical ( e ) and lenticular ( s0 ) galaxies ( grey symbols , emsellem et al .",
    "2011 ) .    with the califa survey we are exploring for the first time in a homogeneous way all hubble types .",
    "spiral galaxies , as expected , are nearly all fast rotator galaxies . however , in comparison with e and s0 galaxies , especially the sb galaxies reach very high @xmath0  values , while several sc and sd galaxies exhibit low @xmath0  values and fall just inside the slow rotator regime , in both cases having interesting consequences as discussed in the following sections .    as function of the ellipticity @xmath2 for 300 califa galaxies color - coded by their morphological type .",
    "the green curve indicates the demarcation line between slow - rotator ( squares ) and fast- rotator galaxies ( circles ) as inferred from the atlas@xmath3 survey of elliptical ( e ) and lenticular ( s0 ) galaxies , which are plotted as grey symbols ( emsellem et al .",
    "the red curve indicates the location in case galaxies were simple isotropic oblate rotators viewed edge - on . ]",
    "the angular momentum is set very early on in the life of galaxies , providing an important tool to distinguish between different scenarios of galaxy evolution .",
    "for example , a possible explanation of the observed morphology - density relation is the transformation of spiral into fast rotating lenticular galaxies through fading of the stellar populations ( e.g. cappellari et al .",
    "2011 ) . under this scenario",
    "the light concentration and the angular momentum are not expected to change significantly .",
    "we measured the apparent specific stellar angular momentum within the half - light radius @xmath0  ( left axis in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig2 ] ) for our sample of 300 califa galaxies .",
    "the light concentration based on sdss @xmath5-band petrosian radii ( bottom axis ) is a proxy for the relative flux in a spheroid ( bulge+bar ) and disk component ( indicated in the top axis , following gadotti 2009 ) .",
    "we observe that sa galaxies indeed overlap with s0/fr galaxies .",
    "sc and sd galaxies also have low @xmath0  values , but their concentrations are too small , which taken together with their large gas supplies , makes it difficult to transform them into red sequence s0/fr galaxies by fading alone .",
    "most of the sb galaxies are in the green valley and hence their gas may have already been quenched .",
    "however , their @xmath0  values are twice as large and light concentrations significantly smaller than s0/fr galaxies today .",
    "this hints to a picture in which the red sequence is being built over time from galaxies that contain disks that are substantially larger and have higher angular momenta .    versus light concentration @xmath6 based on sdss @xmath5-band petrosian radii ( bottom axis ) as a proxy for the relative flux in a spheroid ( bulge+bar ) and disk component ( top axis ) .",
    "symbols and colors as in fig.[fig : fig1 ] . ]",
    "the intrinsic mass distribution of a galaxy is one of the most consequential properties when it comes to its structure and evolution .",
    "however , the interplay between baryons and dark matter content is still under heated debate .",
    "we inferred the total mass of the 300 califa galaxies of all morphological types by constructing axisymmetric dynamical jeans models that fit the observed motions of their stars .",
    "the stellar mass was derived by fitting the galaxy spectra to stellar population models under the assumption of a chabrier initial stellar mass function ( imf ; gonzlez - delgado et al .",
    ". the resulting ratio of total - to - stellar mass inside the effective radius ( r@xmath7 ) is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig3 ] ( vertical axis ) , with arrows indicating the approximate contribution of gas to the baryonic mass ( papastergis et al .",
    "2012 ) . on the high - mass end",
    ", the upturn above unity could be due to the presence of dark matter or a change toward an imf even bottom - heavier than the salpeter imf as claimed in previous studies ( e.g. , cappellari et al .",
    "2012 , la barrera et al .",
    "however , for low - mass sc - sd galaxies there are no indications of a significant deviation from a chabrier imf , so that the high total - to - stellar mass ratios are believed to be the result of a high dark matter fraction even within r@xmath7 .",
    "this is further supported by their observed low @xmath0values , as the presence of a relatively large dark matter halo would support a dynamically hot but geometrically thin stellar disk .    . ]",
    "the authors are grateful to the organizers for the very stimulating meeting celebrating such a special occasion .",
    "we are also indebted to the rest of the califa collaboration for the strong support and assistance to carry out this work .",
    "jfb acknowledges support from grants aya2010 - 21322-c03 - 02 and aib-2010-de-00227 from the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness ( mineco ) .",
    "jfb and gvdv acknowledge support from fp7 marie curie actions of the european commission , via the initial training network dagal under rea grant agreement number 289313 .",
    "cappellari m. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , mnras , 413 , 813 cappellari m. , et al . , 2012 , natur , 484 , 485 emsellem e. , et al . , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 888 gadotti d.  a. , 2009 , mnras , 393 , 1531 gonzlez delgado r.  m. , et al . , 2014 , a&a , 562 , a47 la barbera f. , ferreras i. , vazdekis a. , de la rosa i.  g. , de carvalho r.  r. , trevisan m. , falcn - barroso j. , ricciardelli e. , 2013 , mnras , 433 , 3017 marino r.  a. , et al . , 2013 , a&a , 559 , a114 papastergis e. , cattaneo a. , huang s. , giovanelli r. , haynes m.  p. , 2012",
    ", apj , 759 , 138 prez e. , et al .",
    ", 2013 , apj , 764 , l1 snchez s.  f. , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "a&a , 538 , a8 walcher c.  j. , et al . , 2014 ,",
    "a&a , 569 , a1"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the stellar angular momentum of galaxies across the hubble sequence from the califa survey . </S>",
    "<S> the distribution of califa elliptical and lenticular galaxies in the @xmath0@xmath1@xmath2 diagram is consistent with that shown by the atlas@xmath3 survey . our data </S>",
    "<S> , however , show that the location of spiral galaxies in this diagram is significantly different . </S>",
    "<S> we have found two families of spiral galaxies with particularly peculiar properties : ( a ) spiral galaxies with much higher @xmath0  values than any elliptical and lenticular galaxy ; ( b ) low - mass spiral galaxies with observed @xmath0  values much lower than expected for their apparent flattening . </S>",
    "<S> we use these two families of objects to argue that ( 1 ) fading alone can not explain the transformation of spiral to lenticular galaxies , and ( 2 ) that those low - mass spiral galaxies are in fact dark matter dominated , which explains the unusually low angular momentum . </S>"
  ]
}