{
  "article_text": [
    "the main rationale for new x - ray sources is that since their discovery in 1895 , x - rays have been the single most powerful technique for determining the structure of all forms of condensed matter . through increasingly powerful imaging , diffraction , and spectroscopic techniques , physicists , chemists , biologists , and medical doctors , as well as quality - control inspectors , airline passenger screeners , and forensic scientists",
    "have resolved the structural detail and elemental constituency on length scales from inter - atomic spacing to the size of the human body . every day , that knowledge underpins our modern technologies , our health , and our safety .",
    "quite remarkably , for the first 70 of these 119 years , x - ray sources changed little from the original tube  @xcite used by rntgen in the discovery of x - rays . even today , the x - ray technology used in universities , industrial labs and hospitals derives from this primitive electron tube with incremental improvements .    today , however , the benchmark for x - ray performance is set by large accelerator - based synchrotron radiation facilities , of which more than 60 exist worldwide . interestingly , despite this large investment in major facilities , 15 of the 19 nobel prizes awarded for x - ray - based discoveries used conventional or rotating - anode - based x - ray sources .",
    "the wide availability of these modest sources , their ease of use , and their capability to test new ideas without the barriers of schedule , travel , and expense of the major facilities has led to a remarkable array of scientific breakthroughs . in the present work we aim to exploit recent advances in accelerator and laser technologies to produce a cxls that s offer the potential for a more powerful x - ray source of appropriate size , complexity , and cost for modern laboratories and hospitals .",
    "x - ray beam performance from a cxls would not yet approach the performance of the mega - facilities in general , but in critical parameters such as pulse length and source size the compact sources would surpass them .",
    "the result would be major advances for example in ultrafast x - ray science and diagnostic phase - contrast imaging .",
    "for ultra - fast x - ray diffraction , to understand matter far from equilibrium or study chemical reactions in real time , cxls technology can produce powerful pulses of x - rays having time duration well under a picosecond .",
    "new phase - contrast imaging methods , already demonstrated on large synchrotrons , could be available in hospitals to provide a new tool in the battle against breast cancer or heart disease .",
    "in addition to entirely new applications , compact sources offer many other advantages .",
    "the pace of drug discovery could be accelerated by providing structure solutions immediately upon crystallization , rather than waiting precious days or weeks for access to a synchrotron .",
    "universities will have the ability to train students in these powerful emergent applications of x - rays without the often prohibitive constraints of travel and the limitations of beam time .",
    "electronic chip manufacturing facilities could perform in - situ metrology of today s three dimensional nanometer sized structures .",
    "museums and other cultural institutions could perform in - house x - ray analysis on historic works of art .",
    "advanced major facilities such as the national high magnetic field laboratory and spallation neutron source at ornl can benefit from a compact source to combine x - ray analysis with magnetic and neutron studies .",
    "furthermore , the characteristics of the x - rays produced by such compact sources can be improved through research and development , increasing flux and coherence with the ultimate goal of achieving a compact x - ray source with fully coherent @xcite hard x - ray beams .",
    "inverse compton scattering is the upconversion of a low energy laser photon to a high energy x - ray by scattering from a relativistic electron .",
    "figure [ fig : layout ] shows the layout and geometry of the interaction with a near head - on collision between the laser and electron beams .",
    "the scattered x - rays emerge in the same direction as the electrons .",
    "the physics of ics is nearly identical to spontaneous synchrotron emission in a static magnetic undulator as used at the large traditional synchrotron facilities , but because the wavelength of the laser is much shorter than a static undulator period , the energy required of the electrons to make hard x - rays is orders of magnitude lower than the large synchrotrons , reducing the size and cost of the compact ics source by orders of magnitude .",
    "linac - based compton - scattering x - ray sources have shown promising results at low repetition rates @xcite . however , past linac - based ics x - ray experiments depended on accelerators and lasers built for other purposes such as injection into a synchrotron that had modest performance requirements , and produced x - ray beams of relatively low brilliance due to the lack of specific engineering to ics requirements .",
    "recent developments in laser and accelerator technology , along with a focused effort to design a dedicated ics x - ray source promise to significantly improve the source properties and to open up new scientific frontiers , particularly in ultrafast dynamics and spectroscopy . in this work",
    "we focus on the properties of a linac - based cxls in preference to ring - based output .",
    "the main advantages of compact rings ( see @xcite for a good discussion ) are their high repetition rate , high average current relative to a linac , and historically better stability .",
    "however the dynamics in rings result in relatively long electron bunches with large emittance ; both of these effects are detrimental to x - ray production with the result that a relatively low repetition rate linac can produce the same or greater flux than a ring .",
    "the pulse format for a linac is flexible and determined by the photocathode laser .",
    "the output pulses are subpicosecond without compression and substantially shorter than that with compression .",
    "the electron beam phase space may be manipulated in sophisticated ways , e.g. emission of arrays of electrons from nanotips or diffraction crystals , or filtering for transverse momentum or energy .",
    "there is great flexibility with a single pass device where the electron bunches do not relax into an equilibrium distribution .",
    "rings are substantially larger and more complex than a linac ; they require a full energy linac for injection , and a high - finesse , high power laser cavity as well as all of the ring equipment .",
    "we think it will eventually be possible to produce coherent x - rays via ics , but this will require the best possible electron beam which will only be produced by a linac . there is a perception that linacs",
    "have significant jitter in timing , energy , and beam position .",
    "however that view derives from linacs that were designed for injection into synchrotrons and required only modest stability .",
    "modern solid - state high power rf equipment and precision magnet power supplies have stabilized operation to the point where femtosecond jitter and micron position stability are attainable .    although the baseline cxls performance will not match the standard of large 3rd and 4th generation facilities , cxls sources are expected to provide x - ray parameters similar to that of bending magnet synchrotron beam lines for a small fraction of the cost , far beyond existing lab source performance , and in some parameters such as pulse length and source size , will significantly exceed what is possible at the major facilities . the current situation in x - ray science",
    "is that experiments are either done at the large facilities where the beam brightness is about @xmath2 , or in home labs where the best rotating anodes @xcite have a brightness of @xmath3 and flux of @xmath4 per second .",
    "that enormous gap - 12 orders of magnitude in brilliance - is similar to the gap in capability between an abacus and a supercomputer .",
    "the cxls is equivalent to a laptop , and like the laptop it is closer to a supercomputer than an abacus .",
    "it s qualitative and quantitative impact on x - ray science is likely to be enormous , in ways that are difficult to foresee because a source with this brilliance , size , and cost does not exist today .",
    "a cad drawing of the major components of the compact source is shown in figure [ fig : cadicsassembly ] including the electron accelerator , laser amplifiers and laser ringdown cavity inside which x - ray production takes place , x - ray optics , and rf transmitter that supplies power to the accelerator . for a compact source",
    "it is important to design the entire system to be small , and not to overlook ancillary items such as power supplies , chillers or cryogenic equipment .",
    "the ancillary equipment for compact sources can dominate the size and cost of the system . however the advent of high - power solid - state power sources in recent years for both lasers and accelerators has dramatically reduced the overall footprint of the equipment while improving stability and efficiency .",
    "the system shown requires only three standard equipment racks for all of its support equipment .",
    "compact sources are meant to be installed in scientific , medical , and industrial labs that generally do not have accomodation for sources of ionizing radiation requiring retrofit installation of shielding .",
    "electrons at energies above 10  mev produce neutrons requiring bulky and heavy shielding , and so the accelerator is typically installed in a shielded vault or room , which is a significant impediment to widespread use of these powerful x - ray sources .",
    "however , the compact source shown in figure [ fig : cadicsassembly ] is small enough ( 0.3 @xmath5 3  m ) to have local shielding fitted directly to the device enclosing just the accelerator components in concrete blocks .    a detailed view of the laser - electron interaction area is shown in figure [ fig : ip01 ] .",
    "each of the three beams - laser , electron , and x - ray - are present at the very small interaction point ( ip ) , thus as for any beam brought to a tight focus , a lens is required nearby with a large numerical aperture .",
    "one of the main challenges for the source designer is to fit these diverse lens types into the limited space available . in the figure ,",
    "the electron beam enters from the left and is focused by a quadrupole triplet lens ( last quadrupole is visible ) to a @xmath6 rms spot at the ip . immediately after the collision with the laser the electrons of kinetic energy",
    "18  mev are bent by a dipole and transported to a beam dump by the quadrupoles visible at the upper right of the figure .",
    "the electrons arrive at the ip as a bunch train , 100 bunches ( each about 1 ps long ) arrive in a @xmath7 long train .",
    "the train repeats at a 1 khz repetition rate providing an effective repetition rate of 100  khz .",
    "a single 50  mj , picosecond laser pulse is coupled into a 4f confocal linear cavity . the laser beam is the green beam reaching a focus between a mirror and lens in the figure .",
    "the laser also operates at 1 khz and each pulse rings down inside the cavity with a roundtrip time of 5  ns to match the 100 bunch electron train .",
    "the multiple electron bunches all interact with the same decaying laser pulse .",
    "the laser cavity is set at a 50  mrad angle with respect to the electron beam to allow the electrons and x - rays to miss the laser optics .",
    "the x - rays propagate in the same direction as the electrons .",
    "the laser direction does not impact the x - ray direction although the small collision angle does cause a minor reduction in flux and a small shift in x - ray wavelength relative to a head - on collision .",
    "the opening angle of the x - rays is relatively large at approximately 10  mrad so that a nearby x - ray optic is required to collect the flux .",
    "the optic is shown just downstream of the ip between the laser and electron beams .",
    "for a scattering process like ics , the highest flux is produced by creating the densest target in order to increase the probability of scattering .",
    "high density is achieved by squeezing the electron and laser beams in each of their dimensions .",
    "thus the laser pulse is short in time and is focused to a small waist . likewise",
    "the electron beam is focused to a small spot and must also be short in time to interact efficiently with the laser .",
    "the x - ray source is optimized to have a small , radially symmetric size of a few microns and to have an opening angle of a few mrad .",
    "this source contrasts with a typical synchrotron beam that has a source size of @xmath8 and an opening angle of perhaps 100  @xmath9rad .",
    "however , because the product of source size and divergence of the cxls is similar to a synchrotron beam , optics can be used to collimate the ics beam resulting in a larger virtual source with a smaller opening angle similar to synchrotron radiation .",
    "there are of course limits to improvements in x - ray output by focusing to ever smaller spots . for the electron beam ,",
    "the emittance is the determining factor .",
    "the emittance of an electron beam at a focus is just the product of the beam size and its divergence . making a smaller focus",
    "means that the divergence is larger , and eventually the spread in angles of the electron trajectories will become the dominant cause of increasing bandwidth and opening angle of the x - rays , lowering the beam brilliance",
    ". the laser focus size should be similar to the electron beam size to maximize the interaction , but producing a small laser focus also sets limits on acceptable pulse lengths .",
    "the optimum pulse lengths for both the electron and laser beams depend on the transverse focus size . in the regime where we will operate",
    "the laser intensity is relatively low so that nonlinear effects @xcite are weak and x - ray production scales as the square of the laser intensity . in this case",
    "it is important for the electron - laser interaction to take place within the rayleigh diffraction length @xmath10 of the laser beam where @xmath11 is the @xmath12 laser waist radius .",
    "@xmath13 can become much shorter than the laser pulse length for small @xmath14 , reducing the x - ray flux .",
    "the shortest laser pulse length is generally determined by the laser bandwidth , which depends on the particular laser material chosen .",
    "the laser needs to be able to produce short pulses with high pulse energy and high average power , limiting the selection of materials to a few candidates .",
    "the electron bunch is also constrained to interact within @xmath13 so it must be short as well .",
    "note that the output x - ray pulse length depends only on the electron bunch length and not the laser length .",
    "this is the same dynamic as in undulator radiation where the x - ray pulse length does not depend on undulator length .",
    "the quantitative effects of pulse length and focus size are shown in numerical studies below .",
    "first we derive relations that guide the design of the electron and laser beams , and resulting x - ray source .",
    "the resonant wavelength for ics is  @xcite @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the laser wavelength , @xmath17 is the electron energy in units of rest mass , @xmath18 is the electron - laser collision angle ( @xmath19 for head - on ) , and @xmath20 is the dimensionless vector potential of the laser field that plays the same role in ics as the undulator parameter @xmath21 @xcite does for undulator radiation .",
    "the angle between the electron direction of motion and an observer is @xmath22 . for low laser intensity and on - axis emission from a head - on collision with a relativistic beam",
    "the resonant wavelength is @xmath23 . for high laser intensity with multi joule pulses ,",
    "@xmath24 , harmonic power and distortion of the fundamental linewidth become important .",
    "however , in the present case where high repetition rate is important the peak intensity is modest , @xmath25 , and a weakly nonlinear approximation is used to accurately model the on - axis spectrum .",
    "the x - ray bandwidth is determined by several factors including the laser bandwidth , which represents the minimum possible x - ray bandwidth , the electron beam energy spread and emittance , and the wavelength shift represented by the @xmath26 factor in eq .",
    "[ eq : resonance ] that depends on the time - varying laser intensity .",
    "figure [ fig : xraytotal12kev ] shows the complex interplay of bandwidth , central energy , and collection angle .",
    "the minimum x - ray bandwidth is the inverse of the number of laser periods @xmath27 similar to the relationship between undulator radiation bandwidth and number of undulator periods . as an example",
    ", a 1  ps laser at 515  nm wavelength has 580 periods and so the minimum bandwidth is about 0.2% .",
    "this value may be broadened by several effects . from equation [ eq : resonance ]",
    "the contribution of electron energy spread to broadening is @xmath28 from numerical simulation the expected electron energy spread is 0.1% in which case the broadening is similar to the fundamental line width .",
    "another effect is the intensity - dependent term @xmath29 in equation [ eq : resonance ] , which results in a red shift of the emission due to a slowing down of the average electron z - velocity in strong laser fields .",
    "a conservative estimate of the bandwidth due to this effect is @xmath30    for the present case the maximum @xmath31 at the focus so that the relative broadening is at the 1% level .",
    "this estimate is conservative because the probability of emission also scales as @xmath32 so that most of the emission occurs near the maximum value of @xmath26 .",
    "the electron emittance affects the bandwidth through the variation in electron - laser collision angle @xmath18 and the change in apparent observation angle @xmath22 . at a focus ,",
    "the normalized electron emittance is @xmath33 where @xmath34 is the rms beam size and @xmath35 is the rms spread in electron angles relative to the axis .",
    "equating @xmath35 to the effective observation angle @xmath22 in equation [ eq : resonance ] results in a broadening of @xmath36 as with the other contributions , we wish to limit this effect to @xmath37 so that the electron focus size @xmath38 . in the present case",
    "the emittance is @xmath39 m - rad so that the electron focus size should be @xmath40 .    turning to numerical simulations to study these effects , we run several codes to create detailed time - dependent models of the electron and laser beams and the x - ray beams they produce .",
    "the electron beam is modeled starting from photoemission at the cathode through acceleration and transport to the interaction point ( ip ) with the code parmela@xcite , a time - dependent pic code including space charge effects .",
    "the laser is modeled with tracepro and oxalis - laser codes .",
    "the electron and laser simulations are described in more detail in the technical sections that follow .",
    "the resulting laser and electron pulses are then input into the code compton@xcite that performs time - dependent 3d simulations of the incoherent ics process including weakly nonlinear effects .",
    "this code has been benchmarked @xcite against ics experiments .",
    "figure [ fig : xraytotal12kev ] shows output from compton , with plots of total flux vs angle and a color plot of x - ray intensity vs angle and photon energy .",
    "inspecting the righthand plot , the vertical width of the intensity band represents energy bandwidth .",
    "it is apparent that the on - axis bandwidth is quite narrow ( 0.7% in this case due to all of the effects described above ) but that as radiation is collected at larger angles the bandwidth is substantially broadened and emitted at lower photon energy .",
    "these off - axis effects are due to the @xmath41 term in equation [ eq : resonance ] creating an energy - angle correlation .",
    "the same phenomenon occurs with undulator radiation ; however , the low electron energy used in ics ( one of its primary advantages ) results in a larger opening angle of the radiation .",
    "note that even though the color plot is not as intense at larger angle , the integrated flux at those angles is substantial and useful for experiments that can tolerate the wider bandwidth .",
    "the radiation contained within the central on - axis bandwidth is emitted into a fairly narrow cone of 5  mrad half angle .",
    "the upper plots of figure [ fig : fluxbrilliance ] show x - ray intensity vs horizontal and vertical angles for bandwidth windows of 5% and 0.1% .",
    "the acceptable bandwidth depends on the application , with e.g. laue scattering and saxs techniques able to use a broad bandwidth , while macromolecular crystallography and other techniques require narrow bandwidth . for the set of parameters under study",
    "the average flux into 5% bandwidth is @xmath42  photons / sec while for a narrow 0.1% window it is @xmath43  photons / sec .",
    "the lower plots of figure [ fig : fluxbrilliance ] show how the brilliance and flux scale with collection angle for narrow and wide bandwidth .    assuming gaussian laser and electron beam profiles , an analytic expression for the total x - ray dose produced by a head - on inverse compton scattering interaction is given by @xcite @xmath44 in equation [ eq : flux ] @xmath45 is the total thomson cross section , @xmath46 is the total number of electrons , and @xmath47 is the total number of photons in the laser beam .",
    "the term @xmath48 is a form factor , less than unity , that depends on rms pulse durations @xmath49 and @xmath50 , and beam spot sizes @xmath51 and @xmath34 at the interaction point for the laser and electron beams .",
    "it represents the degradation of the interaction efficiency for cases where the pulse durations exceed the interaction diffraction lengths of the laser and electron beams .",
    "the resulting x - ray brilliance at a collision repetition rate of @xmath52 is @xmath53            [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the klystron cathode modulator ( figure [ fig : rftransmitterpic ] ) is model k1-p manufactured by scandinova systems ab @xcite .",
    "their igbt - switched , fractional - turn pulse transformer topology provides a flat ( low droop and straight - line deviation ) and highly stable beam voltage for klystrons .",
    "the pulse stability is much improved over older technologies based on pulse - forming networks .",
    "table [ tab : modulator ] gives the klystron modulator basic specifications .",
    "we required that the modulator provide the peak beam voltage necessary to produce 6  mw rf power plus 10% at the maximum repetition rate .",
    "the klystron modulator is made up of a 19 in .",
    "equipment rack and oil tank , mounted together on a common chassis with oil pan . the modulator dc power supplies and switching",
    "units , control system , and local control touch screen are mounted in the equipment rack .",
    "the oil tank houses the pulse transformer , droop compensation circuitry , and core reset isolation inductor , and supports the klystron and focus coil on its lid .",
    "the greatest technical challenge and most important design objective of the transmitter equipment is the rf stability requirement . over a five minute period , rf pulse - to - pulse phase and amplitude stability are to be within @xmath54 degrees and @xmath55 , respectively .",
    "for either phase or amplitude , we further define the stability specification to be the peak deviations ( plus or minus ) from a target value .    to gain understanding of what control is required to meet these stability specifications one must know what parameters affect the rf output pulse and the sensitivities for each of them .",
    "the klystron vendor has supplied modeling data @xcite using the same software ( nrl / saic code tesla , l-3 code demeos , and ansoft code maxwell ) used to design the klystron . for the case of saturated operation , table [",
    "tab : rfpushing ] shows the sensitivity of rf phase and amplitude output to various parameters .",
    "table [ tab : modulatorstability ] compiles specifications important to rf intra- and inter - pulse stability for the klystron beam voltage and ancillary power supply currents .",
    "these were determined through the phase and amplitude pushing factors and by determining what has been demonstrated by the klystron modulator vendors .",
    "short term stability , say over ten pulses , will span 10  ms and should be dominated by high frequency power supply output variations . as the time span increases , power supply line regulation and cooling are important .",
    "we note that 5 ppm control of dc power supplies has been achieved @xcite with add - on controllers .",
    "there is a vast gulf between the x - ray performance of a modern synchrotron beamline and a home - laboratory source based on bremsstrahlung .",
    "the synchrotron is 12 orders of magnitude brighter and produces several orders of magnitude more flux , enabling qualitatively different science .",
    "however advances in laser and accelerator technologies have shrunk the size and cost of an accelerator - based x - ray source to a scale suitable for the home lab , bringing the power of synchrotron - like radiation into the home lab .",
    "our design estimates of x - ray performance include flux of @xmath0  photons / sec in a 5% bandwidth and brilliance of @xmath56 photons/(sec mm@xmath57 mrad@xmath57 0.1% ) and rms pulse duration of 0.5 ps .",
    "the proliferation of such sources is likely to have a large impact on x - ray science and medicine , allowing a wide and diverse range of researchers to probe atomic - scale structure , high resolution medical imaging , and femtosecond - scale time dynamics without the hurdles of obtaining beamtime at a remote facility .",
    "the impact of introducing students and researchers from academia , medicine , and industry to powerful x - ray techniques is likely to expand the depth and diversity of science and scientists at the major facilities as well as the x - ray community grows in ways that it can not today .",
    "the new technologies include highly stable diode - pumped table - top lasers with high peak and average power , and very compact high efficiency accelerators wtih modest power requirements .",
    "the brilliance of the compact source is several orders of magnitude higher than today s lab sources and its flux is substantially higher , while it is capable of producing tunable , polarized monochromatic x - rays .",
    "enhancements to the proposed source such as coherent emission and operation with superconducting accelerators and coherently pumped laser cavities can yield large increases in performance with continuing r&d . with regard to pulse length and source size",
    ", the compact source outperforms the large synchrotrons .",
    "we have described the accelerator that relies on a high efficiency copper linac and photoinjector powered by a single small klystron and solid - state modulator to produce stable , high - brightness electron beams at energies of a few tens of mev .",
    "the high efficiency allows the linac to pulse at 1 khz with a train of 100 electron bunches in each pulse for an effective repetition rate of 100 khz , many orders of magnitude beyond standard copper linac performance .",
    "the laser uses cryo - cooled ytterbium crystals to produce the required high average power and short picosecond pulses with exceptional beam quality .",
    "the laser pulse is coupled into a ringdown cavity tuned to the electron bunch train spacing so that the laser pulse repeatedly collides with different bunches .",
    "the collision of the electron and laser beams produces bright x - rays via inverse compton scattering , which requires both beams to be focused to a micron - sized spot and to maintain picosecond or shorter length in order to produce substantial x - ray flux .",
    "example x - ray beamlines using nested kirkpatrick - baez optics have been described that are optimized for the ics beam properties of small source size and large divergence .",
    "this work was supported by darpa grant n66001 - 11 - 1 - 4192 , nsf grant dmr-1042342 , and doe grants de - fg02 - 10er46745 and de - fg02 - 08er41532 , and the center for free - electron laser science through the desy - mit collaboration",
    ".    1 w.c .",
    "rntgen ,  on a new type of rays ,  nature 53 , 274 - 276 ( 1896 ) .",
    "w.s . graves , p. piot , f.x .",
    "krtner , and d.e .",
    "moncton ,  intense superradiant x rays from a compact source using a nanocathode array and emittance exchange ,  phys rev lett 108 , 263904 ( 2012 ) .",
    "w.s . graves , k.k .",
    "berggren , j. bessuille , p. brown , s. carbajo , j. derksen , a. fallahi , r. hobbs , k .- h .",
    "hong , w. r. huang , e. ihloff , f.x .",
    "krtner , p. d. keathley , d. mihalcea , d.e .",
    "moncton , e. nanni , ph .",
    "piot , k. ravi , f.scheiba , m. swanwick , l. f. velsquez - garca , i. viti , l.j .",
    "wong , x.wu , y. yang , l. zapata , and y. zhou , 35th international free electron laser conference , pp .",
    "757 - 761 ( 2013 ) new york , ny w.j .",
    "brown , s.g .",
    "anderson , c.p.j .",
    "barty , s.m .",
    "betts , r. booth , j.k .",
    "crane , r.r .",
    "cross , d.n .",
    "fittinghoff , d.j .",
    "gibson , f.v .",
    "hartemann , e.p .",
    "hartouni , j. kuba , g.p .",
    "le sage , d.r .",
    "slaughter , a.m. tremaine , a.j .",
    "wooton , p.t .",
    "springer , and j.b .",
    "rosenzweig ,  experimental characterization of an ultrafast thomson scattering x - ray source with three - dimensional time and frequency - domain analysis \" , phys .",
    "st - ab 7 , 060702 ( 2004 ) h.s .",
    "huang , c.x .",
    "tang , and s.y .",
    "lee , phys .",
    "st - ab 17 , 070101 ( 2014 ) http://www.rigaku.com/products/protein/frx g.a .",
    "krafft ,  spectral distributions of thomson - scattered photons from high - intensity pulsed lasers \" , phys .",
    "92 , 204802 ( 2004 ) f.v .",
    "hartemann , w. j. brown , d. j. gibson , s. g. anderson , a. m. tremaine , p. t. springer , a. j. wootton , e. p. hartouni , and c. p. j. barty ,  high - energy scaling of compton scattering light sources `` , phys .",
    "st - ab 8 , 100702 ( 2005 ) f. albert , s. g. anderson , d. j. gibson , r. a. marsh , c. w. siders , c. p. j. barty , and f. v. hartemann , ' ' three - dimensional theory of weakly nonlinear compton scattering `` , phys . of plasmas 18 , 013108 ( 2011 ) s.k .",
    "ride , e. esarey , and m. baine , ' ' thomson scattering of intense lasers from electron beams at arbitrary interaction angles \" , phys .",
    "e 52 , 5425 - 5442 ( 1995 ) see e.g. k .- j .",
    "kim,characteristics of synchrotron radiation \" , section 2 of x - ray data booklet , http://xdb.lbl.gov/ l. young parmela reference manual , los alamos report la - ur-96 - 1835 w.j .",
    "brown and f.v .",
    "hartemann ,  three - dimensional time and frequency - domain theory of femtosecond x - ray pulse generation through thomson scattering \" , phys .",
    "st - ab 7 , 060703 ( 2004 ) w.j .",
    "brown and f.v .",
    "hartemann ,  brightness optimization of ultra - fast thomson scattering x - ray sources \" , 11th advanced accelerator concepts workshop .",
    "aip conference proceedings , volume 737 , pp .",
    "839 - 845 ( 2004 ) settens , charles , et al",
    ". `` critical dimension small angle x - ray scattering measurements of finfet and 3d memory structures . ''",
    "spie advanced lithography .",
    "international society for optics and photonics , 2013 .",
    "o. j. luiten , s. b. van der geer , m. j. de loos , f. b. kiewiet , and m. j. van der wiel , phys .",
    "lett 93 , 094802 ( 2004 ) m. ferrario , j. e. clendenin , d. t. palmer , j. b. rosenzweig , and l. serafini , `` homdyn study for the lcls rf photo - injector '' , slac - pub-8400 ( 2000 ) d.h .",
    "dowell and j.f .",
    "schmerge ,  quantum efficiency and thermal emittance of metal photocathodes \" , phys .",
    "st - ab 12 , 074201 ( 2009 ) loos , henrik",
    ". `` lcls accelerator operation and measurement of electron beam parameters relevant for the x - ray beam . ''",
    "spie optics+ optoelectronics .",
    "international society for optics and photonics , 2013 .",
    "t. y. fan , d. j. ripin , r. l. aggarwal , j. r. ochoa , b. chann , m. tilleman , and j. spitzberg , ",
    "cryogenic yb3 + -doped solid - stae lasers ,",
    " ieee j. sel .",
    "quantum electron .",
    "13 , 448 ( 2007 ) .",
    "hong , j. gopinath , d. rand , a. siddiqui , s .- w .",
    "huang , e. li , b. eggleton , john d. hybl , t. y. fan and f. x. krtner ,  high - energy , khz - repetition - rate , ps cryogenic yb : yag chirped - pulse amplifier ,  opt .",
    "35 , 1752 ( 2010 ) .",
    "y. akahane , m. aoyama , k. ogawa , k. tsuji , s. tokita , j. kawanaka , h. nishioka , and k. yamakawa ,  high - energy , diode - pumped , picosecond yb : yag chirped - pulse regenerative amplifier for pumping optical parametric chirped - pulse amplification ,  opt .",
    "32 , 1899 ( 2007 ) .",
    "t. metzger , a. schwarz , c. y. teisset , d. sutter , a. killi , r. kienberger , and f. krausz ,  high - repetition - rate picosecond pump laser based on a yb : yag disk amplifier for optical parametric amplification ,  opt .",
    "34 , 2123 - 2125 ( 2009 ) .",
    "luis e. zapata , hua lin , huseyin cankaya , anne - laure calendron , wenqian huang , kyung - han hong and franz x. krtner , `` cryogenic composite thin disk high energy pulsed , high average power , diffraction limited multi - pass amplifier '' , assl ( paris ) , 2013 .",
    "hong , c .- j .",
    "lai , j. siqueira , p. krogen , j. moses , c .-",
    "chang , g. j. stein , l. e. zapata , and f. x. k'artner , `` multi - mj , khz , 2.1-@xmath9 m optical parametric chirped pulse amplifier and high - flux soft x - ray high - harmonic generation , '' optics letters 39 , 3145 - 3148 ( 2014 ) xing fu , kyung - han hong , li - jin chen , and franz x. krtner ,  performance scaling of high - power picosecond cryogenically - cooled yb : yag multipass amplification ,",
    "b 30 , 2798 - 2808 ( 2013 ) .",
    "d. strickland and g. mourou , opt .",
    "56 , 219 ( 1985 ) .",
    "k. h. hong , a. siddiqui , j. moses , j. gopinath , j. hybl , f. o. ilday , t.y .",
    "fan and f. x. krtner , \" generation of 287-w , 5.5-ps pulses at 78-mhz repetition rate from a cryogenically - cooled yb : yag amplifier seeded by a fiber chirped - pulse amplification system  ,",
    "33 , 2473 - 2475 ( 2008 ) d. j. ripin , j.r .",
    "ochoa , r.l .",
    "aggarwal , and t.y .",
    "300-w cryogenically cooled yb : yag laser  , ieee jqe 41 , 1274 ( 2005 ) i. jovanovic , m. shverdin , d. gibson , and c. brown ,  high - power pulse recirculation for inverse compton scattering - produced @xmath17-rays \" nuc . inst .",
    "a 578 , 160 - 171 ( 2007 ) `` high performance supermirrors . ''",
    "newport , n.d . web .",
    "24 march 2014 .",
    "`` thin film coatings . ''",
    "quality thin films , inc .",
    ", n.d . web .",
    "24 march 2014 `` castech - crystal catalog . ''",
    "castech , inc . , 2013",
    ". web . 24 march 2014 .",
    "hong , kyung - han , et al . ",
    "130-w picosecond green laser based on a frequency - doubled hybrid cryogenic yb : yag amplifier . \"",
    "optics express 17.19 ( 2009 ) : 16911 - 16919 zhang , jing - yuan , et al .",
    " second - harmonic generation from regeneratively amplified femtosecond laser pulses in bbo and lbo crystals .",
    "\" josa b 15.1 ( 1998 ) : 200 - 209 j.t .",
    "hunt , d.r .",
    "speck : opt .",
    "28 , 461 ( 1989 ) j.t .",
    "hunt , k.r .",
    "manes , p.a .",
    "renard : appl .",
    "32 , 5973 ( 1993 ) d. j. gibson , f. albert , s. g. anderson , s. m. betts , m. j. messerly , h. h. phan , v. a. semenov , m. y. shverdin , a. m. tremaine , f. v. hartemann , c. w. siders , d. p. mcnabb , and c. p. j. barty , `` design and operation of a tunable mev - level compton - scattering - based @xmath17-ray source '' , phys .",
    "st - ab 13 , 070703 ( 2010 ) f. albert , s. g. anderson , d. j. gibson , r. a. marsh , s. s. wu , c. w. siders , c. p. j. barty , and f. v. hartemann , `` design of narrow - band compton scattering sources for nuclear resonance fluorescence '' , phys .",
    "st - ab 14 , 050703 ( 2011 ) e.a .",
    "nanni , w.s .",
    "graves , and p. piot , `` nanometer scale coherent current modulation via a nanotip cathode array and emittance exchange '' , proceedings of 2014 intl particle accelerator conf .",
    "1952 - 1955 ( 2014 ) dresden , germany k .- j .",
    "kim , `` rf and space - charge effects in laser - driven rf electron guns , '' nucl .",
    "inst . meth . a 275 , 201 - 218 ( 1989 ) j. haimson , b. mecklenburg , and g. stowell , `` a field symmetrized dual feed 2 mev rf gun for a 17 ghz electron linear accelerator '' , proceedings of the eighth workshop on advanced accelerator concepts , 653 - 667 , baltimore , md ( 1998 ) c. nantista , s. tantawi , and v. dolgashev , `` low - field accelerator structure couplers and design techniques '' , phys . rev .",
    "st - ab 7 , 072001 ( 2004 ) s. tantawi et .",
    "`` the optimization of linear accelerator structures with distributed coupling , '' to be published .",
    "sami g. tantawi and jeffrey neilson , `` distributed coupling high efficiency linear accelerator '' , us patent application 61/674262 , patent pending .",
    "sami g. tantawi , `` rf distribution system for a set of standing - wave accelerator structures , '' phys . rev .",
    "st - ab 9 , 112001 ( 2006 ) .",
    "g. schaffer , `` high power uhf components for desy '' , ieee trans .",
    "ns-12 , no .",
    "3 , 208 ( 1965 ) r. m. sundelin , j. l. kirchgessner , and m. tigner , `` parallel coupled structure , '' ieee trans . on nucl .",
    "ns-24 , no . 3 , 1686 - 1688 ( 1977 ) yu .",
    "chernousov , v. ivannicov , i. shebolaev , a. levichev , and v. pavlov , `` characteristics of parallel coupled accelerating structure , '' proceedings of ipac10 , kyoto , japan , 2010 , 3765 - 3767 m.f .",
    "kirshner , r.d .",
    "kowalczyk , c.b .",
    "wilsen , r.b .",
    "true , i.a .",
    "chernyavskiy , and a. vlasov ,  high power x - band klystron \" , vacuum electronics conference ( ivec ) , 2009 ieee international , pp.535 - 536 , april , 2009 m. lindholm , w. crewson , and k. elmquist ,  pulse to pulse stability at parts per million ( ppm ) level ,  proceedings of 18th ieee international pulsed power conference , june 2011 pp .",
    "1593 - 1597 , ( chicago , il ) k. elmquist , m. lindholm , and w. crewson ,  high power pulse quality using solid state technology  , proceedings of 18th ieee international pulsed power conference , june 2011 pp .",
    "1598 - 1601 , ( chicago , il ) r. kowalczyk , ",
    "predicted amplitude and phase pushing factors on the l6145 x - band klystron ,  private communication , l-3 communications electron devices , september 2012 y. tian , w. louie , j. ricciardelli , l.r .",
    "dalesio , and g. ganetis ,  power supply control system of nsls - ii ,  proceedings of icalepcs2009 , 385 - 387 ( 2009 ) , kobe , japan"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a design for a compact x - ray light source ( cxls ) with flux and brilliance orders of magnitude beyond existing laboratory scale sources is presented . </S>",
    "<S> the source is based on inverse compton scattering of a high brightness electron bunch on a picosecond laser pulse . </S>",
    "<S> the accelerator is a novel high - efficiency standing - wave linac and rf photoinjector powered by a single ultrastable rf transmitter at x - band rf frequency . </S>",
    "<S> the high efficiency permits operation at repetition rates up to 1  khz , which is further boosted to 100  khz by operating with trains of 100 bunches of 100  pc charge , each separated by 5  ns . </S>",
    "<S> the entire accelerator is approximately 1 meter long and produces hard x - rays tunable over a wide range of photon energies . </S>",
    "<S> the colliding laser is a yb : yag solid - state amplifier producing 1030  nm , 100  mj pulses at the same 1  khz repetition rate as the accelerator . </S>",
    "<S> the laser pulse is frequency - doubled and stored for many passes in a ringdown cavity to match the linac pulse structure . at a photon energy of 12.4  kev , the predicted x - ray flux is @xmath0 photons / second in a 5% bandwidth and the brilliance is @xmath1 in pulses with rms pulse length of 490  fs . </S>",
    "<S> the nominal electron beam parameters are 18  mev kinetic energy , 10  microamp average current , 0.5  microsecond macropulse length , resulting in average electron beam power of 180 w. optimization of the x - ray output is presented along with design of the accelerator , laser , and x - ray optic components that are specific to the particular characteristics of the compton scattered x - ray pulses . </S>"
  ]
}