{
  "article_text": [
    "in high - resolution optical astronomy with interferometric arrays , producing better images will require more apertures for a denser sampling of the optical wave . as few as three apertures can suffice in principle to reconstruct images through `` optical aperture synthesis''@xcite , using earth rotation or baseline changes to sample the needed fourier components of the object .",
    "but a better sensitivity can be reached with systems using more apertures simultaneously , even if these are smaller for a conserved collecting area .",
    "the gain arises from the coherent combination of light vibrations achievable with many apertures working simultaneously , as opposed to the `` optical aperture synthesis '' approach where interference fringes are recorded with fewer apertures , repeatedly with different baseline settings , and then combined in the computer , i.e. incoherently .",
    "n number of phased beams combined coherently with a simple fizeau arrangement indeed produces a highly constructive interference , in the form of a peak which is n times more intense than the average side - lobes .",
    "instead , successive exposures with subsets of the sub - apertures , even if they are enlarged to conserve the photon flux and moved to improve the spatial frequency coverage , reduce the peak intensity and thus the dynamic range in the convolved image of a complex source @xcite .",
    "fizeau combination however becomes inefficient with highly diluted apertures , since the narrow interference peak appearing in the image of a point source , at the center of the much broader envelope diffracted by the subapertures , contains a small proportion of the energy .",
    "a way of retrieving most energy in the peak , for efficiently observing faint sources with many - aperture interferometers capable of rich direct imaging , has appeared in the form of the hypertelescope or `` densified aperture '' scheme @xcite .",
    "practical designs for large hypertelescopes , with a spherical geometry inspired from the arecibo radio telescope , are under testing for terrestrial versions @xcite and also studied for space versions @xcite .",
    "these future large direct imaging interferometers using many apertures will greatly benefit from adaptive optics systems for ultimate performance on faint sources , providing usable imaging with large exposure time .",
    "but even in the absence of adaptive phasing , high resolution imaging can be done in speckle mode .",
    "speckle mode techniques like speckle interferometry @xcite and speckle masking @xcite , heretofore successfully used with large monolithic telescopes , can also produce useful results with such interferometers .",
    "we describe the numerical simulations done to understand the scope and explore the performance of speckle imaging techniques with this type of diluted aperture interferometers .",
    "we have built a numerical simulation code in matlab that simulates cophased and speckle mode imaging with diluted apertures in different configurations .",
    "the imaging performance of interferometers is much affected by their beam combination scheme , as analyzed in detail by @xcite . in our simulation",
    "we have adopted the pupil densification scheme @xcite , also adopted for the ubaye hypertelescope project currently undergoing preliminary testing in the southern alps @xcite .",
    "pupil densification concentrates the diffracted energy in the central part of the point spread function(psf ) without degrading the resolution .",
    "a detailed analysis of the psf and imaging properties of these diluted aperture interferometers has been done by @xcite and @xcite . in the present article , our simulations extend these results to the case of randomly phased apertures exploited with speckle imaging , and also in the use of aperture rotation which enhances the quality of reconstructed images .",
    "we have also tried to find out the limiting magnitude for the technique by comparing signal to noise ratio ( snr ) of reconstructions at different photon levels .",
    "according to the usual definition of hypertelescope imaging we consider a multi - aperture fizeau interferometer equipped with a non - distorting pupil densifier i.e , one which does not distort the pattern of sub - aperture centers .",
    "this makes the interference function field - invariant , while the spread function depends on the star s position , through its diffraction factor .",
    "this variable spread function , hereafter called `` pseudo spread function '' , results in a pseudo - convolution process which describes the image formation on extended sources . for @xmath0 identical sub - apertures with position vectors @xmath1 ) , the cophased pseudo spread function @xcite is expressed as                @xmath2    where @xmath3 is the diffraction function and the term on the right side , @xmath4 is the interference function given by    @xmath5    the interference function depends only on the array configuration while the diffraction function @xmath3 depends on the beam combination scheme used @xcite . for our analysis",
    "we have considered @xmath3 to be an airy function corresponding to the densified subaperture diameter @xmath6 . in our simulation",
    "we are considering highly diluted arrays , approximated to array of @xmath7-functions , in which pupil densification is so strong that the shift of the airy envelope is negligible . in such a case the image formation of the hypertelescope",
    "can be defined by a pseudo convolution equation    @xmath8    where @xmath9 is the object intensity distribution .",
    "the pseudo convolution creates the direct imaging field of the interferometer which is the diffraction function envelope corresponding to the densified subaperture .",
    "this modeling of hypertelescope imaging is similar to the study by @xcite .    to simulate the seeing conditions we generate kolmogorov phase screens ( fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) with different values of fried parameter and also move these screens with different wind velocities to simulate seeing changes . in our simulations",
    "we assume that the wavefront is coherent across an individual subaperture .",
    "this will be the case if you use small mirrors ( @xmath10 ) in a site with good seeing conditions , and hence only piston errors associated with each subaperture was considered .",
    "the random atmospheric piston error @xmath11 from the corresponding position of the sub - aperture in the phase screen is introduced into the interference function .",
    "@xmath12 this new speckle interference function is used in the pseudo - convolution equation ( [ pseudoconv ] ) to simulate speckle observations .",
    "some of the speckle images corresponding to sample objects used in the study are shown in figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "if the phase across each subaperture is not coherent and there are phase pertubations across the individual mirrors , the diffraction envelope will break in to a speckle pattern .",
    "we have not done an estimate of this effect in the current study .",
    "though there are several aperture configurations under consideration for the big imaging interferometers , the one we studied was of randomly distributed mirrors with non - redundant baselines . the number of diluted apertures , @xmath0 of 20 ( fig [ fig2 ] ) and 50 were considered for this paper . the details of aperture configuration used in the simulations are in table [ tab1 ] .",
    "details of the pupil densification beam combination scheme used in the simulations are discussed in detail by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "densification is constrained by the smallest baseline @xmath13 in the output pupil , since any further densification will cause subapertures to overlap .",
    "thus in maximum densification , length of the smallest baseline in output pupil will be equal to the densified subaperture diameter , i.e. @xmath14 . in our simulation for all the array configurations we have taken densified diameter of each diluted subaperture @xmath15 to be @xmath16 of the largest baseline in the output pupil .",
    "output pupil which is partially filled creates a speckle halo surrounding the central peak in cophased case .",
    "the dominance of this halo is dependent on the output pupil filling rate ( @xmath17 ) .",
    ".parameters associated with aperture configuration . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]              we wanted to compute the limiting magnitude of objects retrievable through such a technique . for this",
    "we have simulated imaging of two objects , a binary star and a resolved star with spots .",
    "both the objects were imaged assuming different magnitudes progressively and the signal to noise ratio was computed for each recontruction .",
    "since the photon levels of speckle images used for reconstructions to compute limiting magnitude were very low , we have used another measure to compute the signal to noise ratio instead of the correlation coefficient .",
    "the snr for the binary star was computed as the contrast of the fainter star in the background halo of noise .",
    "@xmath18    where @xmath19 is the mean flux level from the pixel positions corresponding to the star and @xmath20 the standard deviation of the average background noise .",
    "the average noise was computed in the encircled area in the figure ( [ fig7 ] ) . for the star spots",
    "the contrast level of one of the spots was used as the measure of snr . to calculate the snr ,",
    "20 reconstructions were computed at each magnitude photon level .",
    "the resulting snr plotted against the photon levels are shown in figure [ fig9 ] for both binary star and the resolved spotted star .     and [ tab2].,width=302 ]",
    "the simulations have successfully shown that even in the absence of adaptive phasing , hypertelescope systems employing pupil densification can be used for direct imaging using speckle imaging techniques .",
    "it is shown that with utilizing the aperture rotation of the diluted array through night , reconstruction quality could be increased substantially .",
    "other ways of changing the aperture pattern during observation may also be considered , and should similarly be expected to improve the imaging performance . though as with cophased imaging , speckle imaging also is constrained by the field of view limitations in a hypertelescope . the use of speckle imaging for future earth - based hypertelescopes @xcite can be of interest for faint sources which can not be phased in the absence of adaptive optics , or because of the absence of a sufficiently bright guide star . with the parameters of hypertelescope used in the simulation we have obtained a good snr for the speckle technique at a magnitude of 8 - 9 for a simple binary star and 6 - 7 for a resolved star with spots .",
    "the improvement in limiting magnitude of the technique with different amounts of pupil densification need to be studied further .",
    "also the technique could give better results with deconvolution algorithms and pupil re - dilution as studied by @xcite .",
    "while modified forms of adaptive optics have been proposed specifically for hypertelescopes @xcite , it remains unclear at this stage whether suitable forms of a laser guide star can also be operated for such instruments @xcite .",
    "if not , earth - based hypertelescopes will have to use speckle - imaging on faint sources , which should provide useful results , according to our simulation results , although with lesser performance than in phased conditions . for space hypertelescopes ,",
    "phasing is expected to be much easier @xcite .",
    "although the huge sizes considered , 100 km for an exo - earth imager and 100,000 km for a neutron star imager , can make them sensitive to new forms of seeing such as  gravitational seeing \" .",
    "99 aime c. , 2008 , a&a , 483 , 361 aime , c. ; lantri , h. ; diet , m. ; carlotti , a. , 2012 , a&a , 543 , a42 baldwin , j. e. ; haniff , c. a. ; mackay , c. d. ; warner , p. j. , 1986 , nature , 320 , 595 borkowski , v. ; labeyrie , a. ; martinache , f. ; peterson , d. , 2005 , a&a , 429 , 747 - 753 labeyrie a. , 1970 , a&a , 6 , 85 + labeyrie a. , 1996 , a&a , 118 , 517 labeyrie a. , 2007 , comptes rendus physique,8 , 426437 labeyrie a. et al .",
    ", 2009 , exp.astron.,23 , 463 - 490 , labeyrie a. et al . , 2009 , in proc .",
    "`` pathways toward habitable planets '' , barcelona conf .",
    "( asp conference series , vol . 430 ) labeyrie , a. , et al . , 2012 , optical and infrared interferometry iii , proceedings of the spie , 8445 , 844511 labeyrie , a. , et al . , 2012 , optical and infrared interferometry iii , proceedings of the spie , 8445 , 844512 lardire , o. ; martinache , f. ; patru , f. , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 977 - 988 le coroller , h. ; dejonghe , j. ; arpesella , c. ; vernet , d. ; labeyrie , a. , 2004 , a&a , 426 , 721 - 728 le coroller h. et al . , 2012 , a&a , 539 , a59 lohmann , a. w. ; weigelt , g. ; wirnitzer , b. , 1983 , appl . opt .",
    "22,4028 - 4037 martinache f. , 2004 , journal of optics a : pure and applied optics , 6 , 216 - 220 owner - petersen et al . , 2011 ,",
    "kiruna symp .",
    " integrated modeling of complex optomechanical systems \" patru , f. ; tarmoul , n. ; mourard , d. ; lardire , o. , 2009 , mnras , 395 , 2363 - 2372 nuez , paul d. ; labeyrie , antoine ; riaud , pierre , 2014 , mnras reinheimer , t. ; hofmann , k .- h . ;",
    "weigelt , g. , 1993 , a&a , 279 , 322 - 334 reinheimer , t. ; hofmann , k .- h . ; scholler , m. ; weigelt , g. , 1997 , a&a , 121 , 191 - 199 rondi a. , 2011 , proc .",
    "kiruna symp .",
    " integrated modeling of complex optomechanical systems \" surya a. & saha s.k , 2014 , journal of optics , springer sridharan r. , 2000 , phd thesis , iiap bangalore weigelt g. , 1977 , optics communications , 21 , 55 - 59"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> optical stellar interferometers have demonstrated milli - arcsecond resolution with few apertures spaced hundreds of meters apart . to obtain rich direct images , many apertures will be needed , for a better sampling of the incoming wavefront . </S>",
    "<S> the coherent imaging thus achievable improves the sensitivity with respect to the incoherent combination of successive fringed exposures . </S>",
    "<S> efficient use of highly diluted apertures for coherent imaging can be done with pupil densification , a technique also called `` hypertelescope imaging '' . </S>",
    "<S> although best done with adaptive phasing , concentrating most energy in a dominant interference peak for a rich direct image of a complex source , such imaging is also possible with random phase errors such as caused by turbulent `` seeing '' , using methods such as speckle imaging which uses several short - exposure images to reconstruct the true image . </S>",
    "<S> we have simulated such observations using an aperture which changes through the night , as naturally happens on earth with fixed grounded mirror elements , and find that reconstructed images of star clusters and extended objects are of high quality . as part of the study we also estimated the required photon levels for achieving a good signal to noise ratio using such a technique .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    instrumentation : high angular resolution , interferometers  techniques : interferometric . </S>"
  ]
}