{
  "article_text": [
    "a hundred year old photograph or a postcard can reveal a lot about our culture and history .",
    "following this idea , many cultural heritage campaigns recently started to promote the digitization of large amounts of visual data .",
    "several cities and towns all over the world , as well as institutions such as universities or museums , are bringing archives with their images and footage online , providing public access and calling for methods to efficiently open up and exploit these resources @xcite .    at the time when photography was not affordable for private and everyday use ,",
    "most of the pictures were taken in public places and depict buildings , monuments , statues , or more in general , common locations of interest .",
    "some of those are landmarks and tourist attractions .",
    "others are locations with historical value .",
    "popular landmarks often appear in modern digital images which are shared online through applications such as flickr .",
    "other historical locations can be associated to their geographic coordinates through google maps and visualized by means of applications like google street - view . despite the place correspondence ,",
    "the visual appearance of old and new images is dramatically different .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : newvsold ] , ancient photographs have different colors , texture , and contrast characteristics compared to modern digital images @xcite .",
    "moreover it is not possible to control the acquisition perspective : changes in the urban planning along the years may have made some viewpoints not accessible .",
    "numerous efforts have been dedicated to recognizing landmarks in image databases containing photographs of the same era  @xcite , but to our knowledge , no previous work focused on tackling location recognition over large time lags . here",
    "we define this task : * annotate an ancient photograph with the correct location label , given a set of labeled modern photos*. in particular , we propose several useful tools to cope with this problem , making three main contributions :    = 1em    we introduce a collection of images spanning over 25 locations and more than one century , with the eldest photographs dating back to the 1850s ;    we present a detailed analysis of existing feature representations , looking for the most robust features , suitable to handle the variability induced by different imaging processes adopted over time ;    old and new images can be considered as belonging to two different domains .",
    "we use existing domain adaptation methods and we show promising results in both location recognition and interactive location retrieval .    the rest of the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section [ sec : rel ] revises the related work on location recognition and domain adaptation .",
    "section [ sec : chall ] introduces our large time lags locations dataset and indicates the challenges of location recognition on this testbed .",
    "section [ sec : da ] briefly reviews the domain adaptation methods used in our study . in section [ sec : expers ] we present and discuss the obtained experimental results .",
    "finally , section [ sec : concl ] concludes the paper and points out possible directions for future research .",
    "_ location recognition _ consists in determining where a photo was taken by using as reference a database of previously seen locations @xcite .",
    "the interest towards this task grew together with the number of freely available images on the internet , many of which are geo - tagged and depict urban outdoor scenes . today",
    ", with the widespread use of mobile devices endowed with built - in cameras and internet connectivity , location recognition is a useful tool for city guides and smart navigation aids that are able to localize an image in near real time @xcite .    given a structured database covering a pre - defined set of places , location recognition can be tackled as a classification problem @xcite .",
    "the models for each place are learned offline and , at query time , a photograph is localized by assigning to it the label of the best scoring location classifier @xcite .",
    "previous work also considered this task as a retrieval problem : a query image is used to find a set of similar images from a database which are then returned as place suggestions @xcite .",
    "this setting is mainly adopted when dealing with reference image collections possibly containing a large number of distractors .",
    "regardless of the chosen setup , one of the main challenges for location recognition is the choice of appropriate image descriptors .",
    "the variability in illumination conditions , viewpoint and occlusion can dramatically influence the similarity of images even depicting the same place or building .",
    "the data similarity is generally based on local descriptors and bag - of - words ( bow ) based techniques @xcite , and the retrieval is performed by computing distances between sparse bow histograms @xcite .",
    "several improvements on this core system have been proposed by learning better descriptors @xcite , introducing more accurate descriptor matching @xcite , exploiting 3d point clouds as powerful representations @xcite , or carefully handling repetitive structures such as building facades @xcite .",
    "the mentioned large visual variability occurs in spite of the standard practice of using photos acquired with high resolution modern cameras for location recognition . although urban scenes and landmarks have been often captured even in ancient pictures and paintings , these samples are generally neglected and the further issues induced by vintage color processes or artistic brushstrokes are not considered in this task in the literature .",
    "one attempt to define robust detectors and descriptors was presented in @xcite , where local symmetry features and spectral correspondence methods are proposed to match urban scenes with lighting , age and rendering style variations .",
    "the problems of alignment between paintings and photographs @xcite and viewpoint re - capturing over time @xcite have been tackled mainly leveraging over 3d models . the pioneering work of shrivastava et al .",
    "@xcite defined visual similarities between paintings and pictures taken in different seasons .",
    "the proposed method relies on the robustness of hog features @xcite and leverages the visual uniqueness of query images against millions of negative data . despite their relevance ,",
    "all these approaches have not been tested before for location recognition .",
    "solving the problem induced by data variability is also one of the goals of _ domain adaptation _ @xcite . instead of focusing directly on image - pairs matching",
    ", domain adaptation examines the data distributions from which the images are drawn .",
    "specifically , two sets of data are considered as belonging to two different domains if they cover the same set of classes but their marginal distributions differ .",
    "the aim of domain adaptation is to reduce this distribution shift @xcite .",
    "various approaches fulfill this purpose by sample re - weighting and selection @xcite , self - labeling @xcite and metric learning @xcite .",
    "a solution that has recently received a lot of attention in the computer vision community consists in embedding the samples in a low dimensional subspace shared by both the domains and invariant to their specific characteristics @xcite .",
    "this strategy allows to tackle cases where the samples present originally high dimensional feature vectors and one of the two domains contains only unlabeled samples ( unsupervised domain adaptation ) .",
    "previous work demonstrated that time can naturally cause a visual domain shift @xcite .",
    "existing methods applied to close this time gap proposed to discover object - specific style - sensitive patches @xcite , to predict the behavior of time - varying probability distributions @xcite or to learn models adaptively over a continuous manifold @xcite . however , all these approaches require details about the time ordering ( evolution ) of images , which is often difficult to obtain , especially with ancient photographs . in many cases",
    "only two set of data are available , one older than the other without any further information .",
    "our work fits in this context .",
    "we focus on the problem of location recognition over large time lags where we are given a set of labeled modern photos and we want to annotate unlabeled historical pictures .",
    "as detailed earlier , location recognition has so far been studied over modern images and the issues induced by large time lags have been only marginally considered for other tasks .",
    "therefore one of the contributions of this paper is a database of images which spans over a wide time period and numerous locations .",
    "the dataset is presented in this section and used throughout the paper .",
    ".some dataset statistics .",
    "minimum , maximum and mean number of images per class is shown . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      using domain adaptation in an instance retrieval setting turns out to be quite challenging .",
    "the reason is that domain adaptation relies on the samples of both the domains to learn and recompose the domain shift , but in image retrieval the query ( target ) samples are not available beforehand , while the source data ( i.e. the subset of the database corresponding to relevant locations ) can be identified only as more and more queries are issued . to overcome this lack of information we relax the problem and make the retrieval process interactive",
    "the idea is to ask a user to select three relevant images from the retrieved result set of each query . by doing that we are able to collect some query images ( old photographs or the target domain ) and new relevant images ( the source domain images ) . finally , by using these collected samples we can estimate the subspaces of respective domains and use them to perform adaptation by learning the subspace alignment matrix @xmath0 which",
    "is then used over new query images .    for the described process it is necessary to control the source and target sample cardinality",
    ": we need a minimum number of relevance feedback samples and queries to learn a full rank transformation matrix .",
    "we indicate with @xmath1 the number of collected source images obtained with the feedback mechanism at round @xmath2 , and with @xmath3 the corresponding number of target query images .",
    "the respective subspace intrinsic dimensionalities @xmath4 and @xmath5 can be calculated by using 15 distinct images for each of the two domains : this amount of samples allows to evaluate @xmath6 pairwise distances and provides enough information to set the local neighborhood of each sample for mle @xcite .",
    "the matrix @xmath0 is then learned at the first iteration @xmath7 which satisfies the conditions @xmath8 and @xmath9 .",
    "distractors , while the old images are the queries .",
    "`` no - adapt '' corresponds to the result obtained by using ha - rsift - fv without any adaptation .",
    "`` esa - whole dataset '' refers to the result that can be obtained when the transformation matrix @xmath0 is learned over the full set of old and new images of the 25 locations in our dataset .",
    "`` esa '' indicates the interactive cross - domain retrieval method .",
    "we refer to the text for further details . ]    for our target task @xmath10 and the source task @xmath11 , so we collect @xmath12 distinct queries and @xmath13 feedbacks amounting to about 90 - 115 distinct modern images .    after the subspace alignment step over those data we also use pca whitening @xcite with the eigenvalues obtained from the query images .",
    "we repeat this experiment 10 times and we report the obtained mean average precision in figure [ fig : retr ] , together with the results obtained when increasing the number of query images .",
    "the plot shows that esa outperforms the non adaptive solution and with @xmath14 query samples it reaches almost the same results that would have been obtained by learning the transformation matrix @xmath0 over our whole dataset ( i.e. the same @xmath0 used in the classification experiments ) .",
    "we also compare the obtained results with a nave baseline method which exploits directly the similarity among the query images . given a query sample we can first search the most similar image among the accumulated historical pictures and then use the associated modern feedback images to search in the modern archive .",
    "this procedure gives a map of @xmath15 , which is still lower than what we obtained with esa ( @xmath16 ) .",
    "apart from being effective in the retrieval setting as shown , esa makes the use of fisher vectors time and memory efficient since it operates in the low dimensional target space . in our experiments we need about 350 mb of ram for 100k images and a single query",
    "is executed in less than 0.03 seconds using a single core of 2.8ghz .",
    "the matrix @xmath0 can be learned in a few seconds , which allows esa domain adaptation approach to be applied also in an online setup .",
    "in this paper we introduced the task of recognizing the location depicted in an old photograph using modern digital images .",
    "we presented a dataset spanning over 25 locations and more than one century and we analyzed several representations looking for the most robust to the variability induced by color degradation and different image acquisition processes . our experimental evaluation has shown that hessian affine detector  @xcite and root - sift  @xcite in combination with fisher vectors  @xcite are more suitable for the task at hand than other detector - descriptor pairs originally introduced to cope with non - linear intensity changes  @xcite .",
    "the difference in visual appearance among old and new images causes a domain shift at image descriptor level .",
    "consequently , we obtain poor recognition performance for bag - of - words , descriptor matching approaches and nbnn . to overcome this problem we investigated the use of domain adaptation methods .",
    "our analysis demonstrated that among different subspace adaptive learning approaches the extended subspace alignment method  @xcite provides the best results and shows a significant advantage in recognition over non - adaptive strategies ( from @xmath17 to @xmath18 ) and state - of - the - art cnn features  @xcite ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "finally we proposed and analyzed the task of cross - domain location retrieval .",
    "we proposed a strategy to interactively use domain adaptation and showed the gain in performance provided by esa also in this setting ( from @xmath20 to @xmath21 map ) .",
    "our work presents several cues that indicate good directions for future research .",
    "we believe that the ltll dataset introduced in this paper is a good testbed to evaluate the practical usefulness of existing domain adaptation methods .",
    "we plan to extend the collection and to investigate how adaptive methods scale in case of more samples and an increasing number of classes / locations .",
    "indeed the application of domain adaptation on large datasets and the effect on their speed / complexity and accuracy have not been extensively studied yet .",
    "the proposed dataset may also influence the location recognition community to seek novel image representations that are not susceptible to distribution mismatch due to large time lags .",
    "moreover our analysis suggests that there is a great necessity of new learning algorithms able to overcome the domain - shift issue in the cross - domain image retrieval setting .",
    "on one side the presented study paves the way for online - interactive domain adaptation systems , on the other it may inspire new instance retrieval methods and paradigms  @xcite .",
    "p.  gronat , g.  obozinski , j.  sivic , t.  pajdla , learning and calibrating per - location classifiers for visual place recognition , in : international conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2013 .",
    "j.  philbin , o.  chum , m.  isard , j.  sivic , a.  zisserman , object retrieval with large vocabularies and fast spatial matching , in : international conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2007 .",
    "b.  gong , k.  grauman , f.  sha , connecting the dots with landmarks : discriminatively learning domain - invariant features for unsupervised domain adaptation , in : international conference on machine learning ( icml ) , 2013 .",
    "l.  bruzzone , m.  marconcini , domain adaptation problems : a dasvm classification technique and a circular validation strategy , ieee transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence ( tpami ) 32  ( 5 ) ( 2010 ) 770787 .",
    "b.  kulis , k.  saenko , t.  darrell , what you saw is not what you get : domain adaptation using asymmetric kernel transforms , in : international conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2011 .",
    "j.  donahue , y.  jia , o.  vinyals , j.  hoffman , n.  zhang , e.  tzeng , t.  darrell , decaf : a deep convolutional activation feature for generic visual recognition , in : international conference on machine learning ( icml ) , 2014 .",
    "k.  mikolajczyk , t.  tuytelaars , c.  schmid , a.  zisserman , j.  matas , f.  schaffalitzky , t.  kadir , l.  van  gool , a comparison of affine region detectors , international journal of computer vision ( ijcv ) 65  ( 1 - 2 ) ( 2005 ) 4372 .",
    "b.  fernando , t.  tuytelaars , mining multiple queries for image retrieval : on - the - fly learning of an object - specific mid - level representation , in : international conference on computer vision ( iccv ) , 2013 , pp ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> would it be possible to automatically associate ancient pictures to modern ones and create fancy cultural heritage city maps ? </S>",
    "<S> we introduce here the task of recognizing the location depicted in an old photo given modern annotated images collected from the internet . </S>",
    "<S> we present an extensive analysis on different features , looking for the most discriminative and most robust to the image variability induced by large time lags . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , we show that the described task benefits from domain adaptation .    location recognition , cross - domain image retrieval , domain adaptation </S>"
  ]
}