{
  "article_text": [
    "lepton pairs are known to be an ideal probe for studying phenomena at high densities and temperatures .",
    "they are created at all stages of a heavy - ion collision , but unlike hadrons they can escape the hot and dense zone almost undisturbed ( since they only interact electromagnetically ) and thus can carry genuine in - medium information out to the detector .",
    "dileptons are particularly well - suited to study the in - medium properties of vector mesons , since the latter can directly convert into a virtual photon , and thus a lepton pair @xcite .",
    "one of the groundbreaking experiments in this field was na60 at the cern sps , which revealed that the @xmath0 spectral function is strongly broadened in the medium .",
    "calculations by rapp et al .",
    "have shown that this collisional broadening is mostly driven by baryonic effects , i.e. , the coupling of the @xmath0 meson to baryon resonances ( @xmath1 , @xmath2 ) @xcite . in the low - energy regime , the data taken by the dls detector have puzzled theorists for years and have recently been confirmed and extended by new measurements by the hades collaboration @xcite . at such low energies , it is expected that not only the in - medium properties are determined by baryonic effects , but that already the production mechanism of vector mesons is dominated by the coupling to baryons ( even in vacuum ) .",
    "and @xmath3n decay channels ( left ) and spectral function ( right ) of the @xmath4 resonance as a function of the off - shell mass.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=35.0% ]    and @xmath3n decay channels ( left ) and spectral function ( right ) of the @xmath4 resonance as a function of the off - shell mass.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=35.0% ]    already our previous investigations @xcite based on the gibuu transport model @xcite have shown that the baryonic @xmath1 and @xmath2 resonances can give important contributions to dilepton spectra at sis energies , both from pp and aa collisions , via dalitz - like contributions .",
    "this finding was based on the assumption that these resonances decay into a lepton pair exclusively via an intermediate @xmath0 meson ( i.e. strict vector - meson dominance ) . in the transport simulation",
    ", the dalitz decays @xmath5 are treated as a two - step process , where the first part is an @xmath6 decay , followed by a subsequent conversion of the @xmath0 into a lepton pair ( @xmath7 ) .",
    "the branching ratios for the @xmath6 decay are taken from the partial - wave analysis by manley et al .",
    "@xcite , while the decay width for the second part is calculated under the strict - vmd assumption as @xmath8 . for the present study",
    "we extend the vmd assumption also to the @xmath9 state , whose dilepton contribution has been subject to much controversy recently . since the @xmath4 is too light to decay into an on - shell @xmath0 meson , it is difficult to determine its coupling to the @xmath0 experimentally , and consequently manley and other analyses do not find any sign of a @xmath10 decay",
    ". nevertheless the @xmath4 has a photonic decay mode , which means that also a dilepton dalitz decay channel must exist .",
    "the latter has been claimed to be particularly significant for dilepton spectra at sis energies @xcite .",
    "however , this argument was based on the continuation of the photon decay into the time - like region neglecting the involved electromagnetic transition form factor @xcite .",
    "unfortunately this form factor is essentially unknown in the time - like region from the experimental point of view .",
    "however , it is clear that it can significantly alter the dilepton yield from the @xmath4 ( easily by an order of magnitude ) @xcite . in order to deal with this situation",
    ", we choose to apply the assumption of strict vmd not only to the @xmath1 and @xmath2 resonances , but also to the @xmath4 itself , assuming a p - wave ( i.e.  @xmath11 ) decay into @xmath12 . together with the other resonance channels , this results in a consistent model with clear assumptions , which can be tested against experiment .",
    "one free parameter that is left to fix in this approach is the on - shell branching ratio of @xmath10 .",
    "we use a value of @xmath13 , in order to produce dilepton yields which are roughly equivalent to the radiative decay for small @xmath4 masses and compatible with the hades data at low energies .",
    "1 shows the partial decay width into @xmath14 , which is extremely small at the @xmath4 pole mass , but grows significantly when going to larger masses .",
    "but even in the very high - mass tail , the additional decay mode has only little influence on the overall width and spectral function of the @xmath4 ( even less than the different parametrizations of the @xmath15 width ) .",
    "fig .  2 shows a comparison of our simulation results for p+p collisions ( inside the detector acceptance ) to the dilepton mass spectra measured by the hades collaboration at three different beam energies .",
    "since the mesonic decay channels have not changed with respect to earlier works @xcite , we concentrate here on the discussion of the baryonic contributions .",
    "the @xmath4 is shown in two approaches , a qed - like radiative decay @xcite ( neglecting the occurring form factor ) , and a vmd decay @xmath16 . while both give rather similar results at low energies ( where the form - factor effects are still small ) , the differences get larger at higher energies . there",
    "the vmd curve develops a clear peak at the @xmath0 mass and a bump around @xmath17 mev ( from the on - shell @xmath4s ) , while the qed curve is flat and structureless ( due to the absence of a form factor ) .",
    "however , both models agree on the fact that the @xmath4 contribution becomes sub - dominant at higher energies and is exceeded by other contributions ( in particular the higher resonances @xmath1 and @xmath2 become more significant ) .",
    "thus the data can not distinguish between both models .",
    "fig .  3 shows our results of dilepton spectra from nucleus - nucleus collisions compared to the hades data .",
    "the light cc system has been measured at two different energies ( 1 and 2 agev ) and the heavier arkcl at the intermediate energy of 1.76 agev .",
    "the best agreement with data is achieved in the cc system at 2 agev , where the spectrum above the pion mass is dominated by the @xmath18 dalitz and the baryonic vmd channels . in the 1 agev reaction",
    ", we see some underestimation at intermediate masses around 300 mev , despite the inclusion of obe bremsstrahlung according to shyam et al .  @xcite .",
    "since there are many channels contributing with similar strength here , it is hard to tell where the underestimation originates from . in the medium - size arkcl system",
    ", we see a similar underestimation at intermediate masses and a slight excess in the vector - meson pole region .",
    "one may be surprised that a pure ( on - shell ) transport approach without explicit inclusion of in - medium spectral functions achieves such a good agreement here , but that just shows the importance of dalitz - like contributions of the baryons , which are captured well by our transport treatment .",
    "we have shown that the hades dilepton data from pp and aa collisions can be described rather well with a combination of a resonance - model - based transport approach with a strict - vmd coupling of the baryons to the em .",
    "sector , where a mix of different baryonic resonances contributes to the total dilepton yield .",
    "we can not reproduce the dominant contribution of the @xmath9 , which was claimed in other models @xcite . in order to improve the description of heavy systems and to make the connection to higher energies , a proper dynamic treatment of in - medium spectral functions is required , which may be provided by the so - called  coarse - graining ",
    "approach , which is subject of ongoing investigations @xcite .",
    "this work was supported by the hessian initiative for excellence ( loewe ) through the helmholtz international center for fair and by the federal ministry of education and research ( bmbf ) .",
    "j.w .  acknowledges funding of a helmholtz young investigator group vh - ng-822 from the helmholtz association and gsi .",
    "99 s. leupold , v. metag , u. mosel , int . j. mod",
    "e 19 , 147 ( 2010 ) r. rapp , j. wambach , h. van hees , landolt - brnstein i/23 , 4 ( 2010 ) h. van hees , r. rapp , phys .",
    "97 , 102301 ( 2006 ) g. agakishiev et al .",
    "( hades collaboration ) , phys .",
    "b 690 , 118 ( 2010 ) g. agakishiev et al .",
    "( hades collaboration ) , eur .",
    "j. a 48 , 64 ( 2012 ) g. agakishiev et al .",
    "( hades collaboration ) , phys .",
    "c 85 , 054005 ( 2012 ) g. agakichiev et al .",
    "( hades collaboration ) , phys .",
    "98 , 052302 ( 2007 ) g. agakishiev et al .",
    "( hades collaboration ) , phys .",
    "b 663 , 43 ( 2008 ) g. agakishiev et al .",
    "( hades collaboration ) , phys .",
    "c 84 , 014902 ( 2011 ) j. weil , h. van hees , u. mosel , eur .",
    "j. a 48 , 111 ( 2012 ) o. buss , t. gaitanos , k. gallmeister , h. van hees , m. kaskulov et al .",
    "512 , 1 ( 2012 ) d. manley , e. saleski , phys .",
    "d 45 , 4002 ( 1992 ) e. bratkovskaya , j. aichelin , m. thomere , s. vogel , m. bleicher , phys . rev .",
    "c 87(6 ) , 064907 ( 2013 ) m.i .",
    "krivoruchenko , a. faessler , phys .",
    "d 65 , 017502 ( 2002 ) g. ramalho , m. pena , phys .",
    "d 85 , 113014 ( 2012 ) r. shyam , u. mosel , phys .",
    "c 82 , 062201 ( 2010 ) s. endres , h. van hees , j. weil , m. bleicher , j. phys .",
    "503 , 012039 ( 2014 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate dilepton production in transport - based approaches and show that the baryon couplings of the @xmath0 meson represent the most important ingredient for understanding the measured dilepton spectra . at low energies ( of a few gev ) , the baryon resonances naturally play a larger role and affect already the vacuum spectra via dalitz - like contributions , which can be captured well in an on - shell - transport scheme . at higher energies , </S>",
    "<S> the baryons mostly affect the in - medium self energy of the @xmath0 , which is harder to tackle in transport models and requires advanced techniques . </S>"
  ]
}