{
  "article_text": [
    "planetary nebulae ( pne )  these magnificent cosmic bubbles that light up the universe in a colourful way @xcite  are generally considered to be the swan song of low- and intermediate - mass ( i.e. 1 to 8 m@xmath0 ) stars , before becoming white dwarfs . as such",
    ", the central stars of pne ( cspne ) are the precursors of white dwarfs and their study provides us with the initial conditions to study the latter .",
    "they therefore fully deserve to be part of a workshop dedicated to white dwarfs .    the classical scenario to form a pn is as follow : at the end of the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) , the star has lost most of its envelope ( and thus its mass ) through a slow but fierce wind and the hot central star is being exposed .",
    "the latter is also undergoing mass loss through a fast , hot wind , which drags along the left - over material of the agb envelope in a narrow shell , which is then ionised by the hot star .",
    "this scenario  known as the interacting wind model @xcite  should produce a spherical pn . and",
    "indeed , the original and misleading name of this class of object , _ planetary _ nebula , arose because of the roundish aspect of the earliest members discovered .",
    "however , with better telescopes , it has soon become clear that a great majority of pne are not spherical .",
    "many are ellipticals or bipolars , with some presenting clear jet - like structures and/or `` ansae '' , while others even appear multipolars @xcite . as such , planetary nebulae with their intricate and vivid shapes are amazing treats for the eye , but also treasures for the mind , as one need to explain how a spherical star leads to such non - spherical nebulae .",
    "this is a critical question , whose corollary can be formulated as _",
    "`` are we sure that all ( or at least most ) white dwarfs go through a pn stage or is there a need to have something else to make a pn ? '' _",
    "i am of the opinion that , after several decades of debate , it is now safe to assert that the origin of the non - spherical , axisymmetric morphology of pne lies in the presence of a ( sub-)stellar companion @xcite .",
    "this has led to the so - called _ binary hypothesis _ for pne ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* see also paczynski 1985 ) .",
    "its weak variant asserts that `` pne derive from binary progenitors more easily than from single progenitor '' , where `` binary '' should be understood here in a general term , i.e. the central star may have a star , a brown dwarf or even a giant planet as a companion .    the number of non - spherical pne amounts to at least 80% @xcite .",
    "can we explain such a high fraction ?",
    "recent surveys ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) indicate that the fraction of binaries among solar - like stars is about 50% , but given that one should ignore all systems with a separation greater than , say , 200 au ( as these are likely not really interacting binaries ) , this fraction becomes 30% .",
    "this value includes brown dwarfs .",
    "the same authors find that @xmath1% of single stars have a planet , so that in total , one can account for @xmath240% of all stars to have at least a companion , stellar or substellar , with which to interact .",
    "in addition , one should note that even if the object now appears single , it does not mean it was not a binary at first , as some objects will go through a merger phase @xcite .",
    "thus , from these arguments alone , it appears that one can explain the binary ( and , by extension , the non - spherical morphology ) of at least 40% of all pne .",
    "the fact that we _ apparently _ see a fraction of such aspherical pne twice as large may be due to the existence of a population of `` hidden '' , low - surface brightness , spherical pne @xcite .",
    "the fraction of these hidden pne should be between 0 and 50% of all pne , depending on the number of mergers , in order not to need the binary hypothesis .",
    "whether such a population exist is still not clear and no conclusion can yet be drawn at this time , except for the fact that the morphology of many pne is clearly influenced by a companion .",
    "this latter point is certainly proven by the fact that there is now a handful of pne with binary central stars for which it was possible to reliably compare the inclinations of both binary orbital plane and nebular symmetry axis , and in all cases , these two angles were similar @xcite .",
    "the conclusion is inescapably that the central binary is the cause of the shaping of the nebula .",
    "an agb star in a binary system will , unless the system is really very wide , interact in some way with its companion .",
    "it will transfer mass by wind @xcite and , if the orbital period is smaller than some limiting value , it will overflow its roche lobe , a process that will generally lead to a common envelope and a spiral - in of the companion @xcite",
    ". the final orbit will be very tight , with an orbital period in the range of a few hours to a few days . in this case ,",
    "the envelope which is ejected is the nebula that will be ionised by the white dwarf .",
    "@xcite found that the close binary fraction , i.e. the faction of binary cspne with orbital period below about 3 days , is about 1221% .",
    "this value may be slightly underestimating the real close binary fraction due to observational biases , as the photometric method they use will only pick binaries ( recognised in the light curves through eclipses , irradiation or elongation effects ) if the signal is strong enough , which depends on the time sampling , the inclination of the system , the relative brightness of the nebula and the orbital period .",
    "it should , however , provide a good first estimate .",
    "one can do a rough calculations to see if such a value is compatible with what we know about binary stars .",
    "if we take as a rough estimate that the maximum radius an agb star can reach is about 1000 r@xmath0 , we can estimate that all systems with a period below about 2130 years ( @xmath3 )  depending on the total mass of the system and the mass ratio  will lead to a common envelope and thus to a short period binary system .",
    "@xcite determined the distribution of orbital periods for solar - like binaries and found that it could be approximated as a gaussian ( in logarithm of the period when expressed in days ) , centred around 4.8 and with a standard deviation of 2.3 .",
    "the more recent study of @xcite finds similar results , i.e. a gaussian , centred around 5.03 and with a standard deviation of 2.28 . using these last numbers , this implies that about 30 to 32% of all solar - like binary systems would go through a common envelope phase .",
    "taking into account the 50% fraction of binaries for solar - like stars , we obtain a close binary fraction of 1516% , not unlike what is observed .",
    "this may also be a lower limit , however , as systems with initially longer periods may also shrink during the wind mass transfer episodes that will precede @xcite .",
    "of course , this back - of - the - envelope calculation should be confirmed by detailed population synthesis estimates , but it already provides some good reason to think that the close binary fraction does not require the pn binary hypothesis to be valid .",
    "this , is turn , would imply the existence of a huge population of hidden , spherical pne . in this respect",
    ", it is useful to note that @xcite found that 35% of all white dwarf - main sequence ( wd - ms ) binaries are post - ce systems , in agreement with the rough calculation made above .",
    "in the last few years , the number of close binary cspne ( i.e. post - ce ) has dramatically increased from the dozen known at the turn of the 21st century @xcite .",
    "dave jones is collecting the list of all planetary nebulae with binary central stars and at the time of writing there are now 50 post - ce pne known and for which an orbital period has been determined .",
    "thus , in addition to providing useful information on the role of binarity in the shaping and , possibly , formation of pne , these binary cspne can be very useful to study binary populations in general , as binary cspne can be thought of as `` fresh out of the oven '' .",
    "this is particularly true for post - ce systems and their study should increase our knowledge on the poorly - constrained common envelope process . in particular , the distribution of orbital periods of post - ce cspne ( fig .",
    "[ hb_fig1 ] ) should be a necessary tool to constrain models .",
    "the availability of 50 systems allows already to have a sizeable sample that can be compared to the outcome of binary populations as well as to other post - ce samples . in this regard ,",
    "it is noteworthy that the observed period distribution drops dramatically for orbital periods above 1 day .",
    "this could partly be due to observational biases , but could as well indicate that the energy efficiency parameter , @xmath4 , should be much smaller than unity @xcite . the difference with the sample of wd+ms from the sdss survey @xcite may also indicate some fundamental issues in the formation of post - ce pne .",
    "post - ce pne allow us also to study the process of mass transfer .",
    "the presence of collimated outflows or jets surrounding several systems ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) possibly launched from an accretion disc that is no longer present is most likely indirect evidence for accretion , either prior to the common envelope phase via wind accretion from the agb primary , during the start of the ce infall phase or perhaps even after the ce phase .",
    "observations indicate the jets were probably ejected before the main nebula @xcite .",
    "another fundamental clue comes from point - symmetric outflows of pne .",
    "simulations can recreate these complex outflows with a precessing accretion disc around the secondary launching jets , with fleming 1 @xcite being certainly the prototype .",
    "the characteristics of fleming 1 indicate that wind accretion ( with the formation of a disc ) must have happened _ before _ a ce episode .",
    "more convincing still is the detection by @xcite of a carbon dwarf secondary in the post - ce central star binary in the necklace planetary nebula . to reproduce the observed carbon enhancement , one need to accrete between 0.03 and 0.35  m@xmath0 , depending on the mass of the star , in a binary system with initial orbital period between 500 and 2000 days .",
    "the current period of the system , 1.16 d , clearly proves that the system underwent a common - envelope phase .",
    "the most advanced simulations of the spiral - in part of the ce phase predict a negligible amount of mass accretion , @xmath5  m@xmath0 ( see references in * ? ? ?",
    "the accretion is therefore most likely to have occurred before the ce phase via wind accretion , a process that simulations predict to form an accretion disc around the companion .",
    "since the jets of the necklace are also observed to be older than the main pn , they were probably launched from such a disc .",
    "balick , b. , & frank , a. 2002 , ara&a , 40 , 439 boffin h.m.j . , miszalski b. , rauch t. et al . , 2012 , science 338 , 773 boffin h.  m.  j. , jones d. , beletsky y. et al . , 2012 , the messenger , 148 , 25 boffin h.m.j",
    ", 2015 , to appear in ecology of blue straggler stars , h.m.j .",
    "boffin , g. carraro & g. beccari ( eds . ) , astrophysics and space science library , springer ; arxiv:1406.3473 bond h. e. , 2000 , in kastner j. h. , soker n. , rappaport s. , eds , asp conf . ser . , vol .",
    "199 , asymmetrical planetary nebulae iii : from origins to microstructures .",
    ", san francisco , p. 115 de marco o. , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 316 duquennoy a. , mayor m. , 1991 , a&a , 248 , 485 ivanova n. , 2015 , to appear in ecology of blue straggler stars , h.m.j .",
    "boffin , g. carraro & g. beccari ( eds . ) , astrophysics and space science library , springer ; arxiv:1406.3475 jones d. , santander - garcia m. , boffin h.m.j . , miszalski b. , & corradi r.l.m . , 2014 , in asymmetrical planetary nebulae vi conference , c.  morisset , g.  delgado - inglada and s.  torres - peimbert ( eds . ) kwok s. , purton c.r . , fitzgerald p.m. , 1978 , apj , 219 , l125 miszalski b. , acker a. , moffat a.f.j . , parker q.a . , udalski a. , 2009 , a&a , 496 , 813 miszalski b. , boffin h.m.j . , corradi r.l.m . , 2013 , mnras 428 , l39 moe m. , de marco o. , 2006 , apj , 650 , 916 nandez , j.  l.  a. , ivanova , n. , & lombardi , j.  c. , jr .",
    "2014 , apj , 786 , 39 nie j.d . ,",
    ", nicholls c.p . , 2012 , mnras , 423 , 2764 nordhaus j. , blackman e. g. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 2004 paczynski b. , 1985 , in cataclysmic variables and low - mass x - ray binaries , dordrecht , d. reidel publishing co. , p. 1",
    "raghavan d. , mcalister h.a .",
    ", henry t.j .",
    "et al . , 2010 ,",
    "apjs 190 , 1 rebassa - mansergas a. , nebot gmez - morn a. , schreiber m. r. et al .",
    ", 2012 , mnras , 419 , 806 schreiber m.r .",
    ", gnsicke b.t . , southworth j. , schwope a.d . , koester d. , 2008 , a&a , 484 , 441 soker n. , 1997 , apjs 112 , 487 webbink r. f. , 1976 , apj , 209 , 829 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> binarity and mass transfer appear to play a key role in the shaping and , possibly , formation of planetary nebulae ( pne ) , thereby explaining the large fraction of axisymmetric morphologies . </S>",
    "<S> i present the binary hypothesis for pne and its current status . </S>",
    "<S> recent discoveries have led to a quadrupling of the number of post - common envelope binary central stars of pne compared to the end of the last century , thereby allowing us to envisage statistical studies . moreover </S>",
    "<S> , these binary systems let us study in detail the mass transfer episodes before and after the common envelope , and i present the evidences for mass transfer  and accretion  prior to the common envelope phase . </S>"
  ]
}