{
  "article_text": [
    "across the milky way , the safest place to conceal the remains of a destroyed satellite is behind the galactic disk .",
    "this is exactly where the third largest , and the closest , companion galaxy , the sagittarius dwarf , avoided discovery until the end of the last millennium @xcite . in the twenty years that followed , through the meticulous identification of particular stellar tracers , sagittarius s enormous tidal tails have been shown to wrap around the entire milky way @xcite . yet , after two decades of collaborative effort , two minute gaps are still present : close to the galactic plane , no choice of stellar tracer results in a selection clean enough not to be completely swamped by the nearby disk dwarfs . as a result ,",
    "in the direction towards the bulge , the base of the leading tail is lacking , while in the opposite direction , towards the galactic anti - centre , the sight of the trailing debris is lost as it reaches into the disk from below the plane .        these short ( at most 20@xmath230 degrees on the sky ) missing stream pieces , nevertheless , hold tantalising clues to the disruption of the sagittarius dwarf ( sgr ) .",
    "if it were not obscured by the disk and the bulge , the view of the area where the leading tail attaches to the remnant s body could help explain the peculiar stream bifurcation . as pointed out by @xcite ,",
    "the leading tail appears bifurcated into the bright and faint components . as of today",
    ", no convincing mechanism has been found to produce such splitting of the sgr tidal tails .",
    "several hypotheses have been brought up : i ) a group or binary in - fall ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and ii ) a rotating progenitor @xcite .",
    "each of these scenarios predicts distinctly different behaviour of the leading tail(s ) in the vicinity of the progenitor .",
    "similarly , as pointed out by @xcite , the exact distance and velocity of the trailing debris around the galactic anti - centre can be used to understand the sgr stream s precession .",
    "they identify new far - flung tidal debris coincident with sgr s orbital plane in the northern hemisphere , and argue that , having crossed the milky way s disk , the trailing tail reaches much larger distances than expected .",
    "in so doing , it attains its maximal extent , or apo - centre , later than predicted by most current models , yielding , therefore , a smaller orbital precession angle . the larger apo - centric distance and the smaller differential precession point towards a significantly lower dark matter content within the stream s orbit , as has been recently demonstrated by @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite based their inference on the assumption that the distant stream detected above the disk in the north is simply the continuation of sgr s southern trailing tail . while this conjecture might seem reasonable ,",
    "as both streams separated by the galactic disk follow very similar distance and velocity gradients , it is at odds with established models of sgr s disruption ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .",
    "previously , a wide variety of stellar types have been used to trace sgr tidal debris .",
    "for example , main sequence ( ms ) and main sequence turn - off ( msto ) stars are the most numerous amongst the sgr populations , and have been used with great success to chart the position of the tails on the sky ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , at distances beyond 30kpc , these are too faint for spectroscopic follow - up .",
    "while blue horizontal branch ( bhb ) stars are perfect distance indicators , their density in this part of the trailing tail is surprisingly low ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; more importantly , in the vicinity of the galactic disk , the efficiency of bhb identification quickly deteriorates with mounting dust reddening .",
    "red giants are bright spectroscopic targets , but even at high latitudes photometrically selected candidates are dominated by the thick disk dwarfs .",
    "therefore , their follow - up close to the milky way s plane appears impractical .",
    "the two remaining tracers that might withstand significant levels of disk dwarf contamination include rr lyrae and m giants .",
    "rr lyrae stand apart from any other stellar population due to their characteristic variability .",
    "for instance , the ogle survey has produced multi - epoch datasets in which rr lyrae are routinely detected beyond the bulge and the disk at latitudes as low as @xmath3 ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "unfortunately , the region of interest around the galactic anti - centre has not been surveyed with sufficient temporal resolution and depth to identify rr lyrae in the sgr stream .",
    "taking advantage of the full - sky coverage of the 2mass survey @xcite , @xcite and @xcite applied the infrared selection criteria outlined by @xcite to pick out distant halo m giants .",
    "as these studies demonstrate , at high latitudes and distances beyond 20kpc , sgr debris dominates the m giant counts .",
    "this ought to be caused by a combination of three distinct effects : the typical lifetime of an m giant star , the star - formation history of sgr and the paucity of recent massive dwarf galaxy accretion onto the milky way .",
    "it turns out that , within 30@xmath240kpc from the sun , the m giant selection based on 2mass @xmath4 magnitudes can distinguish giants from dwarfs quite efficiently , even at galactic latitudes as low as @xmath5 , as illustrated by the discovery of the debris from an accretion event passing through the constellations of triangulum and andromeda @xcite .",
    "however , for fainter stars and/or objects closer to the galactic plane , m giant selection based on 2mass photometry starts to falter .",
    "therefore , to be able to proceed with the kinematic study of the sgr trailing tail around the anti - centre , we strive to optimise m giant identification by complementing the 2mass photometry with far - infrared data from the wise survey @xcite .",
    "section 2 gives the details of the proposed tracer selection , while section 3 presents the results of the spectroscopic follow - up of the sgr m giant candidate stars .",
    "figure  3 of @xcite exemplifies the power of infrared - based m giant selection : this was the very first time the immense scale of sgr s disruption was shown in such clarity .",
    "however , in this figure the contamination of the m giant sample at low latitudes is already obvious , even though the most affected areas with @xmath6 have been excised .",
    "it is clear that the original identification scheme breaks down at i ) large distances and ii ) high reddening as the limits of the 2mass photometry are approached . additionally , next to the milky way plane",
    ", the number of false positives due to disk dwarfs grows overwhelmingly quickly making a spectroscopic follow - up campaign too costly .",
    "below we show that these problems can be remedied if , for selecting sgr stream m giants , 2mass data are used in conjunction with far - infrared photometry from the wise survey .     as traced by m giants selected using 2mass only ( black ) and wise@xmath02mass ( red ) .",
    "while the stream signal remains largely the same in both profiles , the foreground contamination appears dramatically reduced when wise@xmath02mass is employed .",
    "[ fig : profile ] ]    intriguingly , the wise data turn out to be extremely valuable for the particular task of identifying giant stars .",
    "the information gain here is due to the peculiar behaviour of the mid - infrared colours of metal - rich giants .",
    "optical and near - infrared broad - band colours of giant stars are quite similar to those of dwarfs , making giant tracer selection rather inefficient .",
    "conversely , in wise photometry , metal - rich giants stand out from dwarfs thanks to the presence of the gravity - sensitive co - bands .",
    "unusually , this makes the metal - rich giants _ bluer _ in w1@xmath2w2 colours compared to dwarf stars !",
    "figure  [ fig : iso ] illustrates this effect . here , five 12 gyr parsec @xcite isochrones with different metallicities are shown .",
    "the near - ir isochrones look as usual , i.e. , the metal - rich tracks are redder than metal - poor tracks .",
    "moreover , both giants and dwarfs are also redder compared to the turnoff stars . however , along mid - ir isochrones , the metal - rich giant branch actually turns blue in the w1@xmath2w2 colour , which would clearly make the m giants stand out .",
    "this behaviour of the mid - ir giant tracks points out the route for their efficient selection : we need stars that are red in the 2mass bands , @xmath7 , and blue in the wise bands , @xmath8 .",
    "as far as distant halo tracers or areas with large levels of extinction are concerned , the efficiency of this giant identification is limited by the quality of the wise photometry . at around w1@xmath914 ,",
    "the wise photometric errors become large enough that the candidate tracers are swamped by the dwarf stars with @xmath10 .",
    "figure  [ mgiantsmap ] demonstrates the improvement in the quality of the m giant selection .",
    "it compares two all - sky density maps : one ( left panel ) obtained by applying the original 2mass selection as proposed by @xcite , and another ( right panel ) built using the following combination of wise and 2mass :    @xmath11    here , all magnitudes are corrected for extinction using the maps provided by @xcite .    .",
    "however , closer to the disk , at @xmath12 , we show that the trailing tail is at lower velocity than predicted by the @xcite model .",
    "this finding supports the hypothesis of @xcite as to the properties of the trailing tail in the northern hemisphere . [",
    "fig : kinematics ] ]    the two density distributions have features in common .",
    "for example , the leading ( @xmath13 ) as well as the trailing tail ( @xmath14 ) of the sgr stream , are equally prominent in both maps , although perhaps in the right panel there is a minor depletion in m giant counts in the most distant part of the leading tail , where wise photometry starts to deteriorate . however , there are more important differences too .",
    "the halo , i.e. , the portions of the sky far away from the galactic disk , appears both tidier and emptier with the new selection .",
    "also , there is a lot less junk close to the disk , while the disk itself appears significantly reduced in density , especially around the anti - centre - the region of interest ( @xmath15 ) .",
    "in addition , it is worth noting that the new wise@xmath02mass m giant map also boasts a clearer view of the triangulum - andrometa merger ( or tri - and , see deason et al 2014 for details ) at @xmath16 and @xmath17 .",
    "figure  [ fig : profile ] gives a more quantitative summary of the efficiency of the new selection .",
    "the figure presents two density profiles of the same piece of the sgr trailing tail with @xmath18 : one produced using 2mass only ( black ) , and one employing the wise@xmath02mass selections ( red ) . as demonstrated here",
    ", the amplitude of the stream detection remains largely unchanged when switching to wise@xmath02mass , while the foreground contamination is significantly reduced .",
    ".location of the 2df fields [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : rvs ]    we used the newly devised method of m giant identification , as described in the previous section , to pick out targets for a spectroscopic follow - up program . to measure the line - of - sight velocities of sgr debris , 2df+aaomega on anglo - australian telescope ( aat ) was used to target 3 locations along the trailing tail .",
    "the exact coordinates were chosen according to a small number of simple rules .",
    "first , two validation fields ( fields 2 and 3 ) were selected , i.e. , locations where sgr debris has been previously studied with spectroscopy .",
    "second , a field ( field 1 ) as far away along the trailing tail from the last known debris detection was identified . when placing the fields we attempted to locate them in such a way as to maximise the number of m giant star candidates in the 2df field of view as well as to avoid very extincted patches of the sky .",
    "the coordinates of all three pointings are listed in table  [ tab : areas ] . to fill all the aaomega fibers , the wise@xmath02mass m giant candidate sample",
    "was complemented by additional objects having colours and magnitudes consistent with the red giant branch stars at distances @xmath19kpc .",
    "note that one of the fields was selected to lie within the ukidss gcs @xcite survey footprint , hence we used ukidss j , k photometry instead of 2mass .",
    "to summarise , field 1 had 8 m giant candidates allocated , field 2 had 7 , and , finally , field 3 had only 1 wise@xmath02mass m giant candidate , yielding a total of 16 across all 3 fields .",
    "the designated three fields in the sgr stream near @xmath20 were observed with the 2df top end @xmath21 aaomega spectrograph on the 3.9 m anglo - australian telescope the night of 27 november , 2013 , as part of service programme ao179 .",
    "2df is a robotic positioner which allocates up to 392 @xmath22 fibres to targets across a 2@xmath23 diameter field of view .",
    "these fibres feed aaomega s blue and red arms simultaneously , which for our observations were configured with 580v and 1700d gratings for central wavelengths / resolutions of 4800/ 1300 and 8540/ 8000 , respectively .",
    "each field was observed for @xmath24s , at airmasses ranging from @xmath25  @xmath26 and typical seeing of @xmath27 , with quartz spectroscopic fibre flat fields and arc lamp spectra taken immediately prior to each set of exposures .",
    "we processed both blue and red camera data using version 5.53 of the 2dfdr reduction pipeline , although in this work we consider only the red spectra , i.e. , those centred on the ca ii infrared triplet .",
    "following the approach described in detail in @xcite , the reduced spectra were then analyzed to determine the best - fit stellar template , chosen from the phoenix grid ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , whilst simultaneously measuring line - of - sight velocities .",
    "all objects with the best - fit @xmath28 were classified as giants . among the 16 stars targeted as m giant candidates , 13 had @xmath29 ( 6 from field 1 , 6 from field 2 and 1 from field 3 ) .",
    "example spectra of three of the observed stars are shown in figure  [ fig : spectra ] together with their best fitting models . according to the results of our fitting procedure , of these three , two are giants ( top and middle ) and",
    "one is a dwarf ( bottom ) . notwithstanding the relatively small sample size",
    ", our spectroscopic follow - up program confirms the high efficiency ( in excess of 80% ) of the wise@xmath02mass m giant selection method .",
    "figure  [ fig : kinematics ] gives the summary of all m giants with measured radial velocities ( corrected for the solar motion ) in our aaomega spectroscopic sample ( red circles ) as a function of the angle along the stream , @xmath30 .",
    "the figure also shows previous measurements of the line - of - sight velocities of the leading ( empty circles ) and the trailing ( green circles ) tails as well as the prediction from the model of @xcite ( black dots ) .",
    "reassuringly , the radial velocities of the sgr trailing tail in the two validation fields ( at around @xmath31 ) match well the values from the literature . stepping farther from the progenitor along the trailing tail , field 1 at @xmath32 shows a clear deviation from the kinematics stipulated by the n - body simulation . here , 5 out of 6 confirmed m giants are at lower radial velocities , following the trend suggested by @xcite .",
    "the sixth m giant star has @xmath33 km s@xmath34 .",
    "we surmise that this is unlikely to be a dwarf interloper ( even though this field is at a lower galactic latitude than the other two ) but rather a member of the tri - and structure ( see the recent studies of * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "interestingly , the radial velocities of m giants in the sgr stream show an appreciable scatter .",
    "this is not likely to be caused by the contamination or the accuracy of our velocity measurements but rather by the behaviour of the tidal stream around the turn - around in the phase space .",
    "a similar trend of increasing stream dispersion was in fact observed before , for example in @xcite .",
    "this is , of course , also predicted by sgr disruption models in general and the law & majewski model in particular .",
    "figure  [ fig : veldisp ] shows how the velocity dispersion that we derive from m giants compares to the prediction of the law & majewski model as well with the measurements by @xcite .",
    "the m giant velocity dispersion presented here matches within the error - bars the trend of growing trailing tail velocity dispersion around @xmath35 .",
    "we have presented a new method to identify m giant stars using broad - band infrared photometry , more precisely a combination of 2mass and wise data .",
    "our selection procedure picks out stars that are red in the near - infrared j@xmath2k colour and blue in the mid - infrared w1@xmath2w2 colour .",
    "thanks to the presence of the gravity sensitive co bands in wise , the resulting wise@xmath02mass sample of m giants suffers significantly less contamination from foreground dwarfs compared to the conventional near - infrared selection .    taking advantage of the high efficiency of our method , we have been able to trace sgr tidal debris at galactic latitudes as low as @xmath36 .",
    "we have followed our wise@xmath02mass m giant candidates spectroscopically with aaomega at the aat , and show that the identification success rate is as high as 80% . using bona fide m giant tracers ,",
    "we provide a new kinematic detection of the sgr trailing tail debris at @xmath12 . before crossing the galactic disk",
    ", the trailing tail appears to be moving faster than forecasted by the model of @xcite , in agreement with the prediction of @xcite .",
    "our measurement carries important implications for both the disruption of the sgr dwarf and the galactic potential : there is now very little doubt that the distant tidal debris discovered in the northern hemisphere ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is indeed the continuation of the sgr trailing tail .",
    "such behavior of the trailing tail implies low differential orbital precession of the sgr stream , which in turn could require diminished dark matter content within 100 kpc ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the research leading to these results has received funding from the european research council under the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp/2007 - 2013 ) / erc grant agreement n. 308024 .",
    "vb acknowledges financial support from the royal society .",
    "sk acknowledges financial support from the stfc and the erc .",
    "eo acknowledges support from nsf grant ast-1313006 .",
    "dbz acknowledges the financial support of the australian research council .",
    "this work has made use of the q3c open source plugin for postgresql database @xcite , astropy software @xcite , matplotlib software @xcite .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for comments which helped us to improve the paper ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show that a combination of infrared photometry from wise and 2mass surveys can yield highly pure samples of m giant stars . we take advantage of the new wise@xmath02mass m giant selection to trace the sagittarius trailing tail behind the galactic disk in the direction of the anti - centre . </S>",
    "<S> the m giant candidates selected via broad - band photometry are confirmed spectroscopically using aaomega on the aat in 3 fields around the extremity of the sgr trailing tail in the southern galactic hemisphere . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that at the sgr longitude @xmath1 , the line - of - sight velocity of the trailing tail starts to deviate from the track of the @xcite model , confirming the prediction of @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> this discovery serves to substantiate the measurement of low differential orbital precession of the sgr stream which in turn may imply diminished dark matter content within 100 kpc . </S>"
  ]
}