{
  "article_text": [
    "granular materials are omnipresent in nature and widely used in various industries ranging from food , pharmaceutical , agriculture and mining  among others . in many granular systems interesting phenomena like dilatancy , anisotropy , shear - band localization , history - dependence , jamming and yield have attracted significant scientific interest over the past decade @xcite .",
    "the bulk behavior of these materials depends on the behavior of their constituents ( particles ) interacting through contact forces . to understand their deformation behavior , various laboratory element tests",
    "can be performed @xcite .",
    "element tests are ( ideally homogeneous ) macroscopic tests in which one can control the stress and/or strain path .",
    "such macroscopic experiments are important ingredients in developing and calibrating constitutive relations and they complement numerical investigations of the behavior of granular materials , e.g. with the discrete element method @xcite .",
    "different element test experiments on packings of bulk solids have been realized experimentally in the biaxial box @xcite while other deformations modes , namely uniaxial and volume conserving shear have also been reported @xcite .",
    "additionally , element tests with more complex , non - commercial testers have been reported in literature @xcite , even though their applications are restricted for example to the testing of geophysically relevant materials at relatively higher consolidating stresses .",
    "the testing and characterization of dry , non - sticky powders is well established .",
    "for example , rotating drum experiments to determine the dynamic angle of repose have been studied extensively as a means to characterize non - cohesive powders @xcite , even though these tests are not well defined with respect to the powder stress and strain conditions .",
    "the main challenge comes when the powders are sticky , cohesive and less flowable like those relevant in the food industry . for these powders ,",
    "dynamic tests are difficult to perform due to contact adhesion and clump formation .",
    "one possibility to overcome this challenge is to perform confined quasi - static tests at higher consolidation stresses .",
    "one element test which can easily be realized ( experimentally and numerically ) is the uniaxial ( or oedometric ) compression ( in a cylindrical or box geometry ) involving deformation of a bulk sample in one direction , while the lateral boundaries of the system are fixed .",
    "this test is particularly suited for determining the poroelastic properties of granular materials @xcite.while most uniaxial tests on dry bulk solids have been devoted to studying the relationship between pressure and density and the bulk long time consolidation behavior , the dynamics of the time - dependent phenomena has been less studied in experimental and practical applications @xcite . for example , in standard shear testers like the jenike shear tester @xcite and the schulze ring shear tester @xcite , during yield stress measurements , the focus is usually not on the relaxation behavior . considerable stress - relaxation of bulk materials can even disturb yield stress measurements .",
    "additionally , most cohesive contact models @xcite used in discrete element simulation of granular materials do not account for the time dependent relaxation behavior , similar to those observed in viscoelastic materials such as polymers @xcite , gels @xcite , in dielectric relaxation @xcite and in the attenuation of seismic waves @xcite . for the improvement of both discrete element contact models and constitutive macro models relating to cohesive powders , it is necessary to have an experimental and theoretical understanding of the stress response of cohesive materials under different loading conditions . for viscoelastic materials ,",
    "the relaxation has been reported to imply a memory effect and can be described using convolution integrals transformed to their fractional form and containing a relaxation modulus that describes the response of the system to stress @xcite . for these materials , phenomenological models involving the combination of springs and dashpots , such as the maxwell , zener , anti - zener , kelvin - voigt , and",
    "the poynting - thomson models have been developed ( see refs .",
    "@xcite and references therein ) .",
    "even though stress relaxation has also been observed in granular media @xcite , not much work has been done in providing a theoretical description of this phenomenon for granular materials .    in the present study , using two simple testers , we perform oedometric compression tests with the main goal of investigating the relaxation behavior of industrial powders at different stress levels under constant strain ( volume ) .",
    "another goal is to provide a quantitative comparison between the relaxation behavior as observed in two testers , namely the lambdameter @xcite and the ft4 powder rheometer @xcite , in order to confirm that this behavior occurs irrespective of the device used .",
    "the lambdameter has the peculiar advantage that both vertical and horizontal stress can be obtained simultaneously  unlike the ft4 powder rheometer and other simpler oedometric test setups .",
    "finally , we will propose a simple model for stress relaxation that captures the relaxation of cohesive powders at different compaction levels .",
    "the work is structured as follows : in section [ sec : characters ] , we provide a characterization of the material sample , and in section [ sec : expsetup ] the description of the experimental devices and the test protocols . in section",
    "[ sec : creeptheory ] , we present the theoretical model for stress relaxation . section [ sec : resultsdiscs ] is devoted to the discussion of experimental and theoretical results , while the conclusions and outlook are presented in section [ sec : creepconclusn ] .",
    "in this section , we provide a brief description of the experimental samples along with their material properties . in order to investigate the relaxation behavior ,",
    "two cohesive reference samples were chosen , namely cocoa powder and eskal 500 limestone .",
    "the choice is based on several selection factors , among which are the suitability for different industrial applications , ability to withstand repeated loading without changes in the property of the sample and long term availability / storage of the samples .",
    "the eskal limestone has been used extensively as reference cohesive powder , and is made available in convenient amounts in a collaborative european project , c.f .",
    "www.pardem.eu @xcite .",
    "scanning electron microscope ( sem ) images obtained using a hitachi tm 1000 instrument ( hitachi ltd , japan ) for both powders are displayed in fig .",
    "[ morphology ] .",
    "the particle size distributions are measured using the helos testing instrument ( sympatec gmbh , germany ) .",
    "while limestone powder is dispersed with air pressure , we use the wet mode to disperse cocoa powder since it forms agglomerates . for the wet mode ,",
    "cocoa powder is dispersed in dodecane , an oily liquid , in order to retain the fat layer while ultrasound ( vibration ) is applied to stress the dispersion and break off the agglomerates .",
    "the particle density is measured by helium pycnometry ( accupyc , micromeritics , usa ) while the water content is given as the ratio of the difference between the original and dried mass ( after 24 hours in a oven at 100@xmath0c ) and the original sample mass .",
    "the bulk cohesion is the limiting value of shear stress for which the normal stress is equal to zero and is determined from shear experiments with a schulze ring shear tester ( rst-01.pc by dietmar schulze schttgutmesstechnik , germany ) .",
    "a more specific description of the experimental samples is provided in the following section .      one cohesive sample used in this work is cocoa powder with 12% fat content - which is a representative sample for the material used as basic ingredient in the production of chocolate and related beverages .",
    "the material properties including size distribution , particle density and water content are shown in table [ tablematerialppt ] along with a scanning electron microscope visualization of its morphology in fig .",
    "[ cocoa12 ] .",
    "we note that even though the powder is relatively hygroscopic , its humidity does not change significantly during the experiments .",
    "additionally , the experiments are performed over a relatively short period under ambient conditions and samples are sealed in air - tight bags when not in use to minimize effects that could arise due to changes in the product humidity .",
    ".material parameters of the experimental samples .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > , < , < , < \" , ]     [ parametertablec ]    in summary , we find that faster loading rates lead to insufficient time for relaxation with differences most visible at lower stress levels . the effect of loading rate diminishes at higher stress levels .",
    "we have performed oedometric experiments to study the slow relaxation of two cohesive powders under different consolidation stresses .",
    "one goal was to study the slow relaxation behavior in two experimental devices , namely the custom - built lambdameter and the commercially available ft4 powder rheometer .",
    "additionally , a comparison of the relaxation behavior of two industrially relevant cohesive powders , namely cocoa powder with 12% fat content and eskal 500 limestone powder , was carried out .    the relaxation behavior i.e. , the decrease in stress occurring at constant volume , is qualitatively reproduced in the two testing equipments . on the dependence on aspect ratio , larger strain is required in the setup with higher aspect ratio ( @xmath1 1.0 ) to reach the same intermediate stress in comparison to the setup with lower aspect ratio ( @xmath1 0.4 ) . the relaxation model , cf .",
    "( [ eq : relaxmodel ] ) , captures perfectly the decrease in stress during relaxation at different stress levels for both aspect ratios with the response time @xmath2 fluctuating and the dimensionless material parameter @xmath3 identical for both aspect ratios and systematically decreases from low to high stress levels .",
    "for the two cohesive powders studied , it is interesting that both materials show an identical response to axial loading until @xmath415 percent strain where the difference in the response begins to manifest .",
    "eskal 500 limestone is found to produce a softer response to applied vertical stress in comparison to cocoa powder , which is probably due to the difference in particle size . at the same stress level ,",
    "cocoa powder is found to relax more slowly but with a larger relative amplitude than eskal . in terms of the parameters of the model , the response timescale for eskal , @xmath5 ,",
    "is several orders of magnitude smaller than that of cocoa . on the other hand",
    ", the dimensionless parameter @xmath3 shows a decreasing trend for both materials and is only about a factor two higher for cocoa than for limestone .    in terms of the relaxation duration",
    ", we find that longer previous relaxation leads to observable differences in relative stress reduction @xmath6 , reducing the present relaxation .",
    "faster loading rates allow for insufficient time for relaxation with differences in the dimensionless parameter @xmath3 most visible for relaxation at low stresses .",
    "the effects of loading rate are attenuated as stress is increased .",
    "further studies will focus on the comparison between the two testing devices for identical aspect ratios and the solution of the model for finite compression rate .",
    "the effects of system walls of the experimental devices also needs to be given further attention .",
    "the validity of the proposed model for relaxation at constant stress ( or strain creep ) will be investigated .",
    "finally , the incorporation of the features of the present findings into discrete element contact models for cohesive powders will be explored .",
    "a comparison of testers is necessary for several reasons . apart from the fact that several literatures have reported on comparative studies between different testers used in the characterization of cohesive powders @xcite ,",
    "most differences observed have been attributable to human errors , differences in the filling procedure and the measurement conditions . for our experiments , it is important to confirm that the relaxation feature can be reproduced in different testers and is not due to drift or bias in our testing equipments .",
    "the material used for this comparison is cocoa powder .    in order to compare the response of the two testing equipments to vertical ( axial ) stress , we perform uniaxial compression test on cocoa powder with a carriage speed of 0.05mm / s ( protocol 1 in table [ protocoltable ] ) .",
    "five intermediate relaxation stages ( r1r5 ) , in which the top piston / punch is held in position for 300 seconds at specific intervals of 5 kpa during the compression tests are included . in fig .",
    "[ comp_cocoa_time ] we plot the vertical stress @xmath7 as function of time . during loading ,",
    "the axial stress builds up with time until the first target stress of 5 kpa ( at r1 ) is reached .",
    "we observe a slower increase of the axial stress in the lambdameter in comparison to the ft4 powder rheometer even though the respective pistons were moved with the same speed .",
    "consequently , the vertical compaction and thus strain at constant vertical stress is higher in the lambdameter than in the ft4 powder rheometer .",
    "this is possibly due to the difference in aspect ratio of the experimental moulds and filling procedures ( e.g.  conditioning of the sample by a rotating blade in case of the ft4 powder rheometer ) resulting in different masses for both equipments , leading to different initial densities of the same sample , and consequently producing different response to compressive stress .    with the initiation of the first relaxation r1 at 5 kpa",
    ", we observe for both equipments a time - dependent stress relaxation during the rest - time of 300 seconds .",
    "moreover , according to the equation of janssen @xcite , due to the larger diameter of the lambdameter , the stress away from the powder surface is larger , resulting in higher mean vertical stresses .",
    "this observation , along with other observations reported in literature for other granular materials @xcite , confirms that the stress relaxation is not due to a drift in the measuring equipments but it is a material feature as discussed in section  [ sec : compare_equip_aspectratio ] . from 5 kpa",
    ", we observe an approximate 45 percent relative decrease in stress for the lambdameter compared to 22 percent in the ft4 powder rheometer . due to the non - porous lid and the larger diameter of the lambdameter , at similar height",
    ", the escape of the air trapped and compressed in the powder takes more time . with the activation of axial compression after the relaxation ,",
    "we observe a sharp increase in the axial stress until the next intermediate stress state is reached .    the evolution of stress and strain in both testing equipments is shown in fig .",
    "[ comp_cocoa_strain ] , where the vertical stress is plotted against volumetric strain .",
    "we observe that the lambdameter initially produces a softer response to the applied stress , as evidenced by the slower increase in the vertical stress during loading . at higher intermediate strain ,",
    "similar stress increase with strain is observed in the lambdameter as compared to the ft4 powder rheometer .",
    "the comparison of the response of both testing equipments for identical aspect ratio is a subject for future work and will be presented elsewhere .",
    "helpful discussions with n. kumar and m. wojtkowski are gratefully appreciated .",
    "this work is financially supported by the european union funded marie curie initial training network , fp7 ( itn-238577 ) , see http://www.pardem.eu/ for more information .",
    "baumann , g. , scheffler , t. , jnosi , i.  m. , wolf , d.  e. , 1996 .",
    "angle of repose in a two - dimensional rotating drum model . in : wolf ,",
    "d.  e. , schreckenberg , m. , bachem , a. ( eds . ) , traffic and granular flow .",
    "world scientific , singapore , pp .",
    "347351 .",
    "freeman , r. , 2007 . measuring the flow properties of consolidated , conditioned and aerated powders",
    " a comparative study using a powder rheometer and a rotational shear cell",
    ". powder technology 174  ( 1 - 2 ) , 2533 .",
    "imole , o.  i. , kumar , n. , magnanimo , v. , luding , s. , 2013 .",
    "hydrostatic and shear behavior of frictionless granular assemblies under different deformation conditions .",
    "kona powder and particle journal 30 , 84108 .",
    "imole , o.  i. , wojtkowski , m. , magnanimo , v. , luding , s. , 2013 .",
    "force correlations , anisotropy , and friction mobilization in granular assemblies under uniaxial deformation . in : yu , a. ,",
    "luding , s. ( eds . ) , powders and grains , aip conf .",
    "proc . vol .",
    "601604 .",
    "kruijer , m.  p. , warnet , l.  l. , akkerman , r. , feb .",
    "modelling of the viscoelastic behaviour of steel reinforced thermoplastic pipes .",
    "composites part a : applied science and manufacturing 37  ( 2 ) , 356367 .",
    "kwade , a. , schulze , d. , schwedes , j. , 1994 .",
    "design of silos : direct measurement of stress ratio [ auslegung von silos .",
    "unmittelbare messung des horizontallastverhaeltnisses ] .",
    "beton- und stahlbetonbau 89  ( 3 ) , 5863 .                morgeneyer , m. , brendel , l. , farkas , z. , kadau , d. , wolf , d.  e. , schwedes , j. , 2003 .",
    "can one make a powder forget its history ?",
    "proceedings of the 4th international conference for conveying and handling of particulate solids , budapest , 12118 .",
    "schiessel , h. , metzler , r. , blumen , a. , nonnenmacher , t.  f. , 1995 .",
    "generalized viscoelastic models : their fractional equations with solutions .",
    "journal of physics a : mathematical and general 28  ( 23 ) , 65676584 .",
    "thakur , s.  c. , imole , o.  i. , wojtkowski , m.  b. , magnanimo , v. , montes , e.  c. , ramaioli , m. , ahmadian , h. , ooi , j.  y. , 2013 .",
    "characterization of cohesive powders for bulk handling and dem modelling . in : bischoff , m. ,",
    "oate , e. , owen , d. r.  j. , ramm , e. , wriggers , p. ( eds . ) , iii international conference on particle - based methods - fundamentals and applications .",
    "icnme , pp .",
    "112 .",
    "walton , o.  r. , 1995 .",
    "force models for particle - dynamics simulations of granular materials . in : guazzelli ,",
    "e. , oger , l. ( eds . ) , mobile particulate systems .",
    "vol . 287 .",
    "kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , pp ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present findings from uniaxial ( oedometric ) compression tests on two cohesive industrially relevant granular materials ( cocoa and limestone powder ) . </S>",
    "<S> experimental results are presented for the compressibility , tested with two devices  the ft4 powder rheometer and the custom made lambdameter . </S>",
    "<S> we focus on the stress response and the slow relaxation behavior of the cohesive samples tested . after compression ends , at constant volume , the ongoing stress relaxation is found to follow a power law consistently for both cohesive powders and for the different testing equipments . </S>",
    "<S> a simple ( incremental algebraic evolution ) model is proposed for the stress relaxation in cohesive powders , which includes a response timescale along with a second , dimensionless relaxation parameter . </S>",
    "<S> the reported observations are useful for both the improvement of discrete element simulations and constitutive macroscopic models for cohesive granular materials .    stress relaxation , cohesive powders , uniaxial compression , equipment comparsion , aspect ratio , relaxation theory </S>"
  ]
}