{
  "article_text": [
    "the first running period of the lhc , run  i  @xcite , was very successful and resulted in important discoveries in physics . in spring 2013 , the lhc was shut down for about 2  years , in order to allow consolidation of the superconducting splices in the magnet interconnects , following the incident of 2008 . in parallel , numerous other machine systems have been consolidated or upgraded .",
    "a common goal of the upgrades is to improve the machine so that it can safely operate closer to its design energy and thus extend the physics discovery potential . for the restart of the lhc in 2015",
    ", several challenges can be anticipated , and it is important to carefully define its operational parameters at the start - up in order to maximize the chances of a smooth and successful second running period .    in this paper , we discuss first the general strategy for 2015 , which leads up to a proposed choice of starting configuration .",
    "our focus is on collimator settings and reach in @xmath0 , since most other parameters are covered by other papers in these proceedings  @xcite .",
    "we discuss also how the performance can be increased later in the run , when the operational behavior of the machine is better known .",
    "when the lhc restarts in 2015 , it will operate at a higher energy and shorter bunch spacing than in 2012 ( 6.5  tev and 25  ns compared to 4  tev and 50  ns )  @xcite .",
    "these changes imply new major operational and beam physics challenges .",
    "furthermore , the higher beam energy and potentially larger total beam intensities make the lhc beams more dangerous .",
    "fewer protons are needed to cause quenches or damage of sensitive machine components . at the same time",
    ", the risk of a known serious failure mode , the asynchronous beam dump , increases at higher energy  @xcite , and a higher rate of ufos is expected  @xcite .",
    "it is also uncertain how the operational issues encountered in 2012 , such as instabilities and beam lifetime drops , will be manifested at 6.5  tev .    because of the many uncertainties , the operational behavior of the machine in 2015 is not as well known as in the end of run  i , which means that the beam commissioning risks to be less smooth as in 2012 .",
    "therefore , we envisage in the operational strategy for 2015 a careful start of the lhc in a relaxed configuration , which allows larger operational margins .",
    "the focus is put on feasibility , stability , and ease of commissioning , and the main priority is not peak performance but rather to establish a running machine at 6.5  tev and 25  ns . where possible , it should be avoided to introduce too many new features at once .",
    "on the other hand , the starting parameters should also not be overly pessimistic .",
    "therefore , the operational achievements in run  i are used , where possible , to deduce what is likely to work .    the main focus in this paper",
    "is to define the machine parameters for the start - up , but we discuss also , at the end of the paper , what changes can be made later in the year . once sufficient beam experience is gathered through machine development sessions  @xcite or routine operation , the luminosity performance could be pushed .",
    "the ultimate reach in luminosity is hard to predict but we give an overview of the different parameters that can be adjusted .    even though the final goal is to operate at 25  ns , a short initial run will take place at 50  ns . in order to save commissioning time",
    ", this run will use the same machine configuration as the 25  ns run .",
    "therefore , we do not discuss in further detail the 50  ns run .",
    "these different stages of the 2015 proton physics period are schematically summarized in fig .",
    "[ fig : lhc2015_outline ] .",
    "each physics run has to be preceded by a scrubbing period to mitigate the effects of electron cloud  @xcite and possibly by additional commissioning .",
    "further details of the 2015 run can be found in ref .",
    "although the design proton beam energy of the lhc is 7  tev , the baseline energy for 2015 is 6.5  tev .",
    "the reason is that , in order to reach 7  tev , it is estimated that an unfeasibly large number of training quenches is needed  @xcite , although this estimate might be adjusted in the future , when more results of powering tests become available  @xcite .    there has been a strong request from the experiments to operate with the design bunch spacing of 25  ns , since it provides potentially higher luminosity and lower pileup  @xcite .",
    "the 25  ns scheme is , however , coupled to several potential complications , for example stronger electron cloud  @xcite and the need of a larger crossing angle to compensate for the stronger long - range beam - beam effect  @xcite .",
    "the characteristics of the lhc bunches in physics operation are strongly dependent on the beam provided by the injectors .",
    "presently , the injectors can provide two different types of beams : bcms ( batch compression and merging and splittings ) and nominal  @xcite . in both schemes ,",
    "the achievable bunch intensity is , under optimistic assumptions , up to about @xmath1 , which is slightly higher than the nominal @xmath2 .",
    "the bcms beams have significantly smaller emittances ( at lhc injection down to 1.3  @xmath3mnormalized emittance compared to 2.4  @xmath3mfor nominal ) but fewer bunches ( 2544 or 2592 colliding in ir1 and ir5 , depending on the number of trains , compared to 2736 for nominal ) .    once injected in the lhc ,",
    "intensity loss and emittance growth are very likely to occur . using typical numbers from run  i , an intensity loss of about 5%",
    "could be expected , which leaves a bunch intensity up to about @xmath4 in collision .",
    "the emittance is affected by several physical processes .",
    "if only the unavoidable effect from intrabeam scattering ( ibs ) is accounted for , growths of 20% or 5% have been calculated  @xcite for bmcs and nominal respectively .",
    "however , if the scrubbing runs are not fully successful in mitigating the electron clouds , a much larger emittance growth is likely to occur  @xcite .    although with a potentially much higher peak luminosity , it is not obvious that bcms is the better choice , since the very small emittance could have a detrimental effect on the single - beam stability  @xcite .",
    "in addition , the small emittances are more challenging for machine protection  @xcite .",
    "therefore , the choice between the two beams is still at the time of writing ( september 2014 ) an open question .    in the longitudinal plane , a bunch length of 1.25  ns",
    "can be expected at injection and 1.2  ns in collision , for the rf voltages of 6  mv ( injection ) and 12  mv ( collision )  @xcite .",
    "shorter bunches of nominal length ( about 1  ns ) could be within reach from the machine side and could be put into operation .",
    "possibly , the increased pileup density can be handled by the experimental detectors  @xcite .",
    "a shorter bunch length would be beneficial for the luminosity since the geometric reduction factor is increased .",
    "several significant changes to the lhc operational cycle are under study . examples of such changes are luminosity leveling by dynamically changing @xmath0during stable beams ( in order to reduce the pileup ) , putting the beams into collision already before the squeeze starts ( in order to stabilize the beams in the squeeze using the tune spread introduced by the collisions )  @xcite or combining the ramp and the squeeze ( to make the cycle shorter )  @xcite . with the philosophy that it should be avoided , where possible , to introduce untested features at the 2015 start - up , these operational improvements are a priori not a part of the start - up baseline , but",
    "could instead be introduced at a later stage in the run when more experience has been gained .",
    "a detailed account of the nominal cycle is given in ref .",
    "@xcite .",
    "two different optics schemes have been under consideration : the nominal optics  @xcite , used in run  i , and the achromatic telescopic squeeze ( ats )  @xcite .",
    "ats is a promising option that could provide several advantages , but it has also some outstanding points that need further study  @xcite .",
    "therefore , it has been decided to start with nominal optics , while keeping the possibility to switch to ats at a later point .",
    "further details are given in ref .",
    "@xcite .    [ cols=\"<,>,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the authors would like to thank numerous colleagues for input and discussions : h. bartosik , x. buffat , e.  chapochnikova , p. collier , r. de maria , g. iadarola , v. kain , e. meschi , n. mounet , y. papaphilippou , g. papotti , g. rumolo , b. salvachua , b. salvant , m. solfaroli , r.  tomas , g.  valentino , d. valuch , and m. zerlauth"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper shows the baseline lhc machine parameters for the 2015 start - up . </S>",
    "<S> many systems have been upgraded during ls1 and in 2015 the lhc will operate at a higher energy than before and with a tighter filling scheme . therefore , the 2015 commissioning phase risks to be less smooth than in 2012 . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed starting configuration puts the focus on feasibility rather than peak performance and includes margins for operational uncertainties . instead , </S>",
    "<S> once beam experience and a better machine knowledge has been obtained , a push in @xmath0and performance can be envisaged . in this paper , the focus is on collimation settings and reach in @xmath0other parameters are covered in greater depth by other papers in these proceedings . </S>"
  ]
}