{
  "article_text": [
    "thermodynamic behavior , atomic structure , properties and formation mechanisms of low - density condensed - matter phases remain a generally unexplored area . due to the special properties of low - density porous phases ,",
    "this area is in the focus of materials chemistry , materials science and statistical physics of condensed matter . besides conceptual interest related to the peculiarities of the phase behavior of condensed - matter systems at low densities",
    ", this area presently attracts a great deal of research activity because of potentially vast scope of technological applications of porous crystalline materials .",
    "the number of newly discovered structures of such kind , which are reported every year , grows rapidly .",
    "description , classification and design of these structurally complex materials can arguably be regarded as the last frontier of crystallography .",
    "the current explosive growth in the number of newly created extended porous crystalline structures is a result of the development of reticular synthesis , a crystal engineering approach whereby pre - designed stable building blocks@xcite are assembled into a preliminarily conceived periodic network . in particular , this development greatly advanced the synthesis of metal - organic frameworks ( mofs ) that attract special interest because of the technological importance of these materials@xcite .",
    "mofs represent coordination networks with organic ligands containing pores that can be used e.g. for hydrogen storage , or gas separation .",
    "the extensive research efforts aimed at the design of new mofs raise the problem of their modelling and systematic structural characterization .",
    "the general purpose of mathematical modelling of real systems consists in reduction of the observed complexity .",
    "reproduction of a property of an investigated system by a simplified model allows to discern its essential aspects ; in this way , it makes it possible to understand the observed phenomenon by putting it in a general context which can be formalized in a respective classification .",
    "classical crystallography is an example of such an approach : it provides a unifying description of the periodic atomic structures in terms of a general crystallographic classification , thereby reducing their compositional complexity to simplified set of archetypal geometrical model configurations .",
    "recently , a conceptually new approach to the description of extended periodic structures has been developed .",
    "it exploits the idea of presenting these structures in terms of topology of infinite periodic graphs ( nets ) which are assumed to represent the networks of bonds@xcite connecting the elementary structural blocks .",
    "this is an alternative to the traditional crystallographic method of structure characterization whereby the crystalline structures are considered in terms of the geometry of configurations of points .",
    "the development of this new concept of structure description has been prompted by the advent of reticular chemistry .",
    "using the structure description in terms of the topology of bonds , hypothetical mofs can be redesigned from the existing structures by recombining the building blocks according to the conceived net topology@xcite .    a basic question arising in the evaluation of a hypothetical mof model produced as a decoration of a net design concerns its mechanical and thermodynamic stability .",
    "this implies that the atomic configurations designed in that way are expected to represent both potential - energy minimum , and free - energy minimum .",
    "when investigating this question , the use of a direct particle simulation of a mof model producing a realistic atomic configuration is indispensable @xcite .",
    "however , such direct simulations of mof structures are critically constrained by the extreme complexity of the actual mof structure .",
    "this raises a question of conceptual interest : how simple could a physical model , reproducing topology of a mof net , be , and to what extent can the complexity of a real atomic structure described by a net be reduced ? in particular , can its compositional complexity be reduced to a single - component simple system of particles ?",
    "these questions are addressed in the molecular - dynamics simulation which we describe here .",
    "it is demonstrated that a single - component system of particles interacting via a spherically symmetric potential can form a thermodynamically stable crystalline structure with a net topology that belongs to a class of nets commonly observed in mofs . in this way , the simulation happened to produce a new archetypal mof with a novel type of net that is now included in the rcsr database . in the following , we present a detailed description of this simulation and its results .",
    "we also discuss possible use of the general simple - system approach exploited in the present model for the topology design and analysis of other low - density porous crystalline structures , including experiments with colloidal systems .",
    "as we have explained above , the general purpose of the simulation we report here is to explore the idea of self - assembly formation of low - density porous crystalline structures in systems of identical particles using a spherically - symmetric interaction potential . for such purpose",
    ", we conceived the design of an interparticle pair potential in accordance with the following guidance concepts .",
    "first , it is obvious that a mechanically stable energy - minimum low - density configuration of particles must necessarily possess a reduced number of neighbors in the first coordination shell , as compared with densely packed structures . in a system with a spherically - symmetric interaction ,",
    "this reduction can be achieved by constraining the radial variations in the first - neighbor distance which are characteristic of the dense sphere packing .",
    "such a constraint can be arranged by confining the first neighbors to a potential energy minimum of sufficiently reduced width .",
    "second , the separation between the first neighbor shell and the rest of the structure defines the configuration s density and porosity .",
    "this is controlled by the long - range repulsive branch of the pair potential . to produce this structural effect ,",
    "the first minimum is supposed to be followed by a sufficiently broad maximum .",
    "core - softened pair potentials possessing an additional long - range repulsion have been known to induce non - trivial phase behavior @xcite , isostructural transitions@xcite , liquid - liquid transitions , formation of clusters@xcite , columnar and lamellar structures@xcite .",
    "a soft - core form of pair potential has also been found to produce formation of a glassy state @xcite and a quasicrystal @xcite .",
    "isotropic soft - core potentials have also been used to produce low - coordinated structures @xcite    these considerations were incorporated in the design of the spherically symmetric interparticle potential we exploited in this study .",
    "it is shown in in figure [ fig1 ] .",
    "the functional form of the potential energy for two particles separated by the distance @xmath0 is :    @xmath1    where @xmath2         and @xmath3 , respectively , depict energy and pressure variation as a function of temperature . dots and open triangles correspond to cooling and heating , respectively . ]",
    "the values of the parameters are presented in table [ table1 ] .",
    "the first term of this functional form describes the short - range repulsion branch of the potential , and its minimum , whereas the second term is responsible for the long - range repulsion part .",
    "we remark that all the simulation results we report here are expressed in terms of the reduced units that were used in the definition of the potential .",
    "we also note that the short - range repulsion branch of the potential , and the position of its first minimum closely approximate those in the lennard - jones ( lj ) potential @xcite , which makes it possible to compare directly the reduced number densities , and other thermodynamic quantities of the two systems .",
    ".values of the parameters for the pair potential . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the simulation results we report here demonstrate that a thermodynamically stable , low - density , microporous , crystalline phase , exhibiting a kind of topology characteristic of the mof nets , can be formed by a single - component system of particles with a spherically - symmetric interaction .",
    "a more general conclusion of this study is that the form of pair potential we explored here can be further exploited to simulate other novel extended low - density porous crystalline structures , including those with mof topologies .",
    "this approach can possibly be regarded as complementary to the mathematical efforts , in exploring the topological variety of possible reticular chemistry structures .",
    "another perspective application of this simulation is that it can be used as a guidance for creating similar structures in colloidal systems of spherical particles with appropriate tuning interparticle force field .",
    "it has to be mentioned that the main features of the pair potential we exploited in this simulation are consistent with the classical theory for colloidal interactions by deryagin , landau , verwey and overbeek ( dlvo ) @xcite , amended with hard - core repulsion or steric repulsion close to the contact .",
    "the authors thank sten sarman for illuminating discussions .",
    "the simulations were performed using the resources provided by the swedish national infrastructure for computing ( snic ) at pdc centre for high performance computing ( pdc - hpc ) .",
    "tranchemontagne , j.l .",
    "mendoza - cortes , m. okeeffe , and o. m. yaghi , chem .",
    "soc . rev . *",
    "38 - 5 * , 1257 ( 2009 ) b. wang , a. p. ct , h. furukawa , m. okeeffe , and o. m. yaghi , nature * 453 * , 207 ( 2008 ) r. banerjee , a. phan , b. wang , c. knobler , h. furukawa .",
    "m. okeeffe , and o. m. yaghi , science * 319 * , 939 ( 2008 ) m. okeeffe , chem .",
    "soc . rev .",
    "* 38 * , 1215 ( 2009 ) m. okeeffe , and o. m. yaghi , chemical reviews * 112 * , 675 ( 2012 ) c. e. wilmer , m. leaf , c. y. lee , o. k. farha , b. g. hauser , j. t. hupp , and r. q. snurr , nature chemistry * 4 * , 83 ( 2012 ) f.a",
    ". cabrales - navarroa , j.l .",
    "gmez - ballesterosa , and p.b .",
    "balbuena , journal of membrane science * 428 * , 241 ( 2013 )    yu .",
    "d. fomin , e. n. tsiok , and v. n. ryzhov , j. chem . phys . *",
    "134 * , 044523 ( 2011 ) yu . d. fomin , n. v. gribova , v. n. ryzhov , s. m. stishov , and d. frenkel , j. chem",
    ". phys . * 129 * , 064512 ( 2008 ) p.c .",
    "hemmer and g. stell , phys .",
    "* 24 * , 1284 ( 1970 ) g. stell and p. c. hemmer , j. chem .",
    "* 56 * , 4274 ( 1972 ) j. dobnikar , j. fornleitner , and g kahl , j. phys .",
    "matter * 20 * , 494220 ( 2008 ) g.j .",
    "pauschenwein , and g. kahl , j. chem . phys . *",
    "129 * , 174107 ( 2008 ) g.j .",
    "pauschenwein , and g. kahl , soft matter 4 , 1396 ( 2008 ) s. torquato , soft matter,*5 * , 1157 ( 2009 ) s. prestipino , f. saijab and g. malescio , soft matter , * 5 * , 2795 ( 2009 ) g. zhang , f. h. stillinger , and s. torquato , phys . rev .",
    "e * 88 * , 042309 ( 2013 ) m. dzugutov , phys .",
    "a * 46 * , r2984 ( 1992 ) m. dzugutov , phys .",
    "lett . * 70 * , 2924 ( 1993 ) a. metere , t. oppelstrup , s. sarman , a. laaksonen , and m.dzugutov , phys .",
    "e , * 88 * , 062502 ( 2013 ) j. p. hansen , and i. r. mcdonald , theory of simple liquids ( 2013 ) http://rcsr.anu.edu.au/nets/alm b. derjaguin and l. landau , acta physico chemica urss * 14 * , 633 ( 1941 ) e. j. verwey , and j. th .",
    "g. overbeek , theory of the stability of lyophobic colloids ( 1948 ) j. n. israelachvili , intermolecular and surface forces ( 2011 ) g. malescio , nature materials * 2 * , 501 ( 2003 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report a molecular - dynamics simulation of a single - component system of particles interacting via a spherically symmetric potential that is found to form , upon cooling from a liquid state , a low - density porous crystalline phase . </S>",
    "<S> its structure analysis demonstrates that the crystal can be described by a net with a topology that belongs to the class of topologies characteristic of the metal - organic frameworks ( mofs ) . </S>",
    "<S> the observed net is new , and it is now included in the reticular chemistry structure resource database ( rcsr ) . </S>",
    "<S> the observation that a net topology characteristic of mof crystals , which are known to be formed by a coordination - driven self - assembly process , can be reproduced by a thermodynamically stable configuration of a simple single - component system of particles opens a possibility of using these models in studies of mof nets . </S>",
    "<S> it also indicates that structures with mof topology , as well as other low - density porous crystalline structures can possibly be produced in colloidal systems of spherical particles , with an appropriate tuning of interparticle interaction . </S>"
  ]
}