{
  "article_text": [
    "hoyle s seminal paper ( hoyle 1949 ) showed how angular momentum in galaxies can be generated via the tidal field of other galaxies .",
    "later , @xcite developed the tidal - torque theory within the framework of hierarchical galaxy formation , which determines the amplitude and direction of the spin of a dark matter halo based on the surrounding dark matter field ( see @xcite for a recent review ) .",
    "numerical n - body simulations produce results that are in good agreement with the theoretical predictions , although linear theory is not always sufficient to determine the final angular momentum of a collapsed object ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "in addition , mergers are expected to significantly alter a halo final spin @xcite .    the amplitude of the dark matter halo spin influences the radius where baryons settle into a disc @xcite , thus modifying its density and therefore the star formation history of the galaxy .",
    "the influence of spin on star formation history has been studied in detail @xcite .",
    "one interesting feature of tidal - torque theory in hierarchical models @xcite is the prediction of correlated spin directions and that the spin direction for dark haloes is strongly influenced by the halo environment .",
    "@xcite reported a detection of galaxy spin correlations at 97% confidence .",
    "slosar et al .",
    "( 2009 ) have measured the correlation function of the spin chirality and report , for the first time , a signal at scales @xmath9 mpc @xmath10 at the @xmath11 level .",
    "@xcite showed how star formation in galaxies and current spin are correlated , with a @xmath12 detection of spin alignment among galaxies which formed most of their stars at @xmath13 .",
    "motivated by the theoretical study of @xcite , recent interest on the origin of spin in galaxies has focused on the effect of baryons on it . in a series of recent simulations @xcite and @xcite have argued that spins may be generated entirely in the baryonic component due to the growth of eddies in the turbulence field generated by large - scales ( @xmath14 few mpc ) infall .",
    "if this was the case , it would imply that the final spin of halos is determined by the ( random ) properties of gas motions and the capability of the gas to generate eddies and vorticity .",
    "their study focuses on dm haloes with masses in the range @xmath15 ; they found that the low mass haloes tend to have a spin parallel to their associated filament whereas the high mass haloes tend to have a spin perpendicular to their filament .",
    "they explained such correlation based on the shell crossing vorticity generation process @xcite .",
    "in such a picture the low mass haloes are small enough to belong to a vortical region inside a filament .",
    "if this is the case , the dm spin ( and its galaxy ) will be aligned with the vortex vector . on the other hand ,",
    "when the halo is too big to belong to a single vortex region its spin will be canceled and the main source of spin will be the angular momentum accreted through filaments . such process will tend to create a spin vector perpendicular to the filament .                 the above studies focused on dm haloes with masses @xmath16 ; in order study the very initial stages ( @xmath17 and larger ) of spin acquisition after the turn around we will work with haloes in the mass range of @xmath18 at redshift @xmath19 .    in this paper we want to understand if the spin of primordial galaxies is provided by the dark matter or by random motions of the gas within the cosmic web .",
    "to this purpose we focused on simulating the properties of atomic cooling galaxies , which should be unaffected by stellar and agn feedback processes .",
    "the possibility that the _ james web space telescope _ ( _ jwst _ ) can observe the first galaxies , located in haloes @xmath20 times more massive than those hosting the first popiii stars , is an exciting motivation to study the so - called atomic cooling haloes ( i. e. dm haloes with a virial temperature @xmath21 ; hereafter achs  see e.g. @xcite for recent reviews ) .",
    "@xcite showed how environment affects the final fate of ach .",
    "depending on the environment of the ach , it could develop a disk or a very compact object .",
    "motivated by this result , we further investigate the role of environment on ach by studying their spin build up .",
    "in particular , we want to understand if location along a filament in the cosmic web or inside a knot , leads to different spin values for achs .",
    "it is worth clarifying that achs maybe not the dominant galaxy population at high - z as they require a strong uv background nearby to suppress h@xmath22 formation . while rare , they exists @xcite and thus can be clean laboratories of primordial galaxies without any effects due to previous stellar formation or feedback mechanisms .",
    "for this purpose we have performed cosmological numerical simulations that describe the formation of ach in different environments and with different values of the spin parameter ( @xmath23 ) .",
    "our main finding is that the final spin value of a halo can be determined by the clustering of the dark matter . in particular",
    ", the topology where the halo resides determines the efficiency at which the initial ( tidal torque originated ) spin is destroyed or enhanced ; the rate and direction of dark matter accretion determines the final fate of angular momentum .",
    "this paper is organized as follows : in section  [ methodology ]",
    "we describe the details of the numerical simulations and the halo sample . in  [ results ] , we describe our analysis and present the physical quantities extracted from the simulations .",
    "we conclude in  [ conclusions ] .",
    "the simulations presented in this work were performed with the cosmological n - body hydrodynamical code ramses @xcite .",
    "this code has been designed to study structure formation with high spatial resolution using the adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) technique , with a tree - based data structure .",
    "the code solves the euler equations with a gravitational term in an expanding universe using the second - order godunov method ( piecewise linear method ) .",
    "the cooling module of the code has been replaced by the non - equilibrium cooling model for h@xmath24he primordial gas from the chemo - thermal krome package @xcite .",
    "cosmological initial conditions were generated with the mpgrafic code @xcite inside a l@xmath2510 mpc comoving side box .",
    "cosmological parameters where taken from @xcite : @xmath26 , @xmath27 , @xmath28 , @xmath29 , @xmath30 and @xmath31 .    .",
    "vertical lines show merger events as defined in the text . in general , merger events are associated to sharp variations of the spin parameter suggesting that these events can play a non negligible role in the dm halo spin acquisition process . the significant decrease and",
    "increase in spin for hs2 for @xmath32 is explained as the transition between isotropic matter accretion ( decrease ) and the formation of a filament that funnels matter into one preferred direction ( increase ) .",
    "see more details in section 3.4 and fig .  16 . ]",
    "using the parameters mentioned above , we ran a number of dm - only simulations with n@xmath33 particles starting at @xmath34 .",
    "we selected four dm haloes of similar mass m@xmath35m@xmath36 and different spin parameter @xmath37 ( as defined in @xcite ) at redshift @xmath2 . here",
    "j , @xmath38 , @xmath39 and @xmath40 are the dm angular momentum , the halo virial mass , the halo virial radius and the halo circular velocity , respectively .",
    "the halo spin had values in the range @xmath41 .",
    "after the selection process we re - simulated the haloes including dm and atomic - only h@xmath24he primordial gas physics without star formation . for these simulations we re -",
    "centered the box in the dm halo position at redshift @xmath2 .",
    "these simulations were run using 3 dm nested grids filling the whole box .",
    "each of these grids had @xmath42 , @xmath43 and @xmath44 dm particles ( covering the refinement levels from 7 to 9 ) .",
    "furthermore , we inserted another dm grid of @xmath44 particles centered at the box center covering 1/8 of the total box volume ( corresponding to refinement level 10 ) . in this way we were able to reach a dm resolution equivalent to a @xmath45 particles grid inside the box central region , which corresponds to a particle mass m@xmath46m@xmath36 resolution .    following a geometrical refinement strategy",
    ", we allowed refinements inside a fixed spherical volume centered at the simulation box center .",
    "the volume was big enough to properly resolve the whole lagrangian patch finishing inside a radius r@xmath47r@xmath48 at the end of the simulation , @xmath49 .",
    "the refinement criterion was set as follows : a cell is refined if all of the following four conditions are fulfilled i ) it contains more than 8 dm particles , ii ) its baryonic content is 8 times higher than the average in the whole box , iii ) the local jeans length is resolved by less than 4 cells @xcite , and iv ) if the relative pressure variation between cells is larger than 2 . following these criteria the maximum level of refinement was set at @xmath50 , corresponding to a co - moving maximum spatial resolution of @xmath51 pc . to avoid numerical fragmentation due to the imposed maximum level of refinement we set an artificial temperature floor in order to reach the jeans criterion when a cell at @xmath52 satisfies one of the refinement conditions .",
    "however , due to the relatively high temperature of atomic cooling halos , this floor was never activated in the simulations presented in this paper .",
    "the floor generally activates for densities @xmath53 @xmath54 and temperatures @xmath55 .    to compute the gas angular momentum we use tracer ( gas ) particles to follow the lagrangian patch associated to a given gas volume in our four re - simulations .",
    "tracer particles were implemented in the same way as @xcite : for each dm particle there is a tracer particle ( of zero mass ) at the same position with zero initial velocity .",
    "it means that at the beginning the tracers have the same distribution of the dm particles .",
    "based on the local gas velocity the tracer s position is updated following a simple forward eulerian scheme .",
    "it means that at each time step the tracer moves following the local gas behavior .",
    "[ fig : traject ] shows the trajectories for both dm and tracer particles associated to the patch finishing inside @xmath56r@xmath57 at the end of the four simulations analyzed in this work ( and presented in the next paragraph ) . from this figure it is possible to see how the gas trajectories are more concentrated than the dm trajectories",
    "this feature is the consequence of gas cooling .",
    "based on the spin parameter of the analyzed haloes at redshift @xmath2 we named our four simulations as hs1 ( @xmath58 ) , hs2 ( @xmath59 ) and ls1 ( @xmath60 ) and ls2 ( @xmath61 ) where hs refers to high spin and ls to low spin . in order to have an idea of the morphology of our haloes , fig .",
    "[ fig : haloesmap ] shows the mass weighted ( gas and dm ) density and gas temperature map for each system .",
    "the @xmath23 spin parameter evolution as a function of redshift is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : lambda ] .",
    "we study first the origin and evolution of spin before the virialization stage in order to compare it with the prediction from tidal torque theory .",
    "initial angular momentum is acquired via tidal torques acting on the density field , the so - called tidal - torque theory ( hereafter ttt : @xcite ) .",
    "ttt states that the initial angular momentum of an over - dense region in our universe comes from tidal torques associated to the non - homogeneous gravitational field around it .",
    "quantitatively :    @xmath62    where @xmath63 is the angular momentum of the region , a(t ) is the universe s expansion scale factor , d(t ) is the linear perturbation theory growth factor , @xmath64 is the levi - civita symbol , t@xmath65 is the tidal field tensor and i@xmath66 is the moment of inertia tensor .    for a matter dominated universe , which is a good approximation for our universe at redshift @xmath67 , the time dependence of the above equation is @xmath68    fig .",
    "[ fig : spinpatch ] shows the modulus of the specific angular momentum @xmath69 ( hereafter sam ) as a function of the expansion scale factor @xmath70 ( top panel ) and the misalignment angle @xmath71 ( bottom panel ) between the gas and dm components defined as @xmath72 for each of the four simulated haloes .",
    "the figure shows the evolution of the patch associated to dm ( solid line ) and gas tracer particles ( dashed line ) inside r@xmath57 at redshift @xmath2 .",
    "the sam for both components was computed as @xmath73 in the last expression the sum is applied to each type of particle ( dm and tracers ) inside the patch , @xmath74 is the particle position at a given time , @xmath75 is the dm center of mass position of the patch , @xmath76 is the particle velocity and @xmath77 is the dm center of mass velocity of the patch .",
    "the vertical lines mark the merger events suffered by the main halo inside the patch .",
    "we only show merger events for which the mass ratio m@xmath78m@xmath79 , where m@xmath22 is the mass of the secondary progenitor of the halo and m@xmath80 is the mass of the main halo progenitor . even if these merger events do not have a significant effect on the patch evolution they will be very relevant for the main halo evolution as will be shown in the next sub - section .",
    "the grey dashed line in the figure shows @xmath81 .",
    "it is clear that both dm and gas tracer particles follow ttt predictions up to redshift @xmath82 .",
    "this value is in the vicinity of the turn - around redshift of the patch which is marked by a vertical grey line .",
    "after this redshift the patch s sam starts to increase at a slower rate than before turn - around till it reaches an almost constant maximum value in the redshift range @xmath83 .",
    "after turn - around the gas sam starts to fluctuate in short time scales .",
    "such fluctuations are not present in the dm sam evolution . because both components feel the same gravitational potential the most plausible explanation for this different behavior is the combination of cooling and collisional nature of the gas which after shell crossing is able to create torques associated to the gas gradient pressure , @xmath84 .    the value of the misaligned angles showed in fig .",
    "[ fig : spinpatch ] are @xmath85 before turn - around .",
    "such low values show that both gas and dm components tend to be aligned in the first stages of the patch evolution , i.e. both dm and gas feel the same gravitational potential around them and start to rotate in a similar way . in the vicinity of turn - around the misalignment angle starts to fluctuate showing variations at time scales much shorter than those associated to the dm sam .",
    "the main source of such fluctuations is the non - linear effects associated to the gas pressure gradient on the gas patch sam as we will show in the next section .      after having analyzed the evolution of the sam associated to the lagrangian patch of the dm halo at @xmath2 , we study the behavior of the sam associated to the material inside the virial radius of the main halo as a function of redshift .",
    "this quantity was computed using eq .",
    "[ eq : jpatch ] with the sum extended to all particles inside the virial radius of the halo at a given redshift .",
    "[ fig : spinhalo ] shows the same quantities as in fig .",
    "[ fig : spinpatch ] but for the main halo as a function of redshift .",
    "from the four panels of this figure we can see that the sam modulus of both dm and gas follow the same trend but the gas component exhibits greater fluctuations than the dm evolution .",
    "we computed the misalignment angle between the gas and dm sam inside the virial radius using eq .",
    "[ eq : misangle ] .",
    "in contrast with the result of fig .  [",
    "fig : spinpatch ] , for the single halo sam it is possible to see a correlation between some merger events ( marked by vertical lines in fig .",
    "[ fig : spinhalo ] ) and the misalignment angle of the different components .",
    "such correlations are present in the four systems and are the manifestation of pressure gradients working on the gas due to the violent interaction between the dense central regions of the halo progenitor .",
    "besides the fluctuations associated to occasional merger events , there are fluctuations between the vertical lines also .",
    "such fluctuations are associated to pressure torques triggered by soft accretion ( including mergers with a mass ratio m@xmath78m@xmath86 ) into the halo central region .",
    "fluctuations in the gas sam are originated by gas pressure torques which depend on the temperature and density , which are strongly modified by the cooling .",
    "since there is a temperature floor ( @xmath87 ) for the gas , the gas gets denser and the pressure increases , in other words , isothermal collapse will always put the gas onto a higher adiabat , compared to a fixed adiabat with no cooling .",
    "it is therefore natural that cooling will change the dominant torque , increasing it given that pressure gradients will increase .",
    "this torque ( which does not affect the dm evolution ) can decouple the gas evolution from the dm evolution creating the short time scale variations in the gas sam .",
    "to quantify the role of pressure torques at causing fluctuations and spin angle misalignment in the gas component , we compute the acceleration associated to the pressure gradient for a typical merger event and compared it to the gravitational acceleration associated to the gravitational potential gradient , in particular we computed @xmath88 fig .  [",
    "fig : pressuregrad ] shows this before , during and after a merger for the ls1 halo .",
    "pressure gradients ( and its associated torque ) are comparable to gravitational ones in the high density regions . within our analysis",
    "it is not possible to determine if the pressure torques are dominated by cooling of the gas or by the collisional nature of the gas that after shell crossing provides pressure induced torques .",
    "we will investigate this in an upcoming publication .",
    "( thick line ) for each of the four systems .",
    "solid line : dm component and in dashed line is the gas component of the systems . from this",
    "it is possible to see that the halo s final ( @xmath2 ) specific angular momentum comes from two sources : i ) mergers , indicated by vertical lines and ii ) accretion between merger events .",
    "the lowest @xmath23 halo ( ls1 ) shows a main halo spin evolution with a roughly constant slope barely disturbed by 3 merger events .",
    "this behavior suggests that in this system most of the angular momentum comes from soft accreted material . on the other hand , the highest @xmath23 halo ( hs1 )",
    "shows a staircase - like ( far from constant slope ) evolution where each of the steps is associated to merger events .",
    "the other two cases , ls2 and hs2 , show a mixed behavior with periods of constant slope evolution and jumps associated to a stair like ( mergers ) evolution . ]",
    "it is interesting to have a direct comparison between the two analysis presented above , i.e. a patch v / s main halo evolution .",
    "[ fig : spinpatchhalo ] shows the sam evolution for the four systems ( for gas and dm ) .",
    "the thick lines correspond to the patch evolution and the thin lines to the main halo evolution .",
    "our two extreme spin cases , namely ls1 ( top - left ) and hs1 ( bottom - right ) , have very different behaviors .",
    "whereas the ls1 halo shows three merger events barely disturbing the sam value and a soft mass accretion producing an almost constant slope in the main halo sam evolution , the hs1 halo presents merger events which drastically change the sam value .",
    "these changes in the sam value ( and in the @xmath23 evolution , see figure fig .",
    "[ fig : lambda ] ) are captured as steps in the figure , a feature that does not appear in the ls1 halo .",
    "such step - like structure shows that in this case mergers contribute significantly to the sam of the final halo .",
    "the other two intermediate cases ( ls2 and hs2 ) show a mixed behavior with periods of constant sam slope and step - like evolution due to mergers .",
    "after showing how the main halo builds up its sam from merger events and mass accretion it is worth to study these processes in more detail . in order to do so we computed the mass accretion history of the haloes , the sam flux into each halo and the sam acquisition from accreted material and the merged secondary halo for a single merger event .",
    "together , all these quantities allow us to infer how the haloes at high redshift acquire their spin .",
    "is coming from the accreted mass.,title=\"fig : \" ]   is coming from the accreted mass.,title=\"fig : \" ]    we start with the accretion features in our four systems . fig .",
    "[ fig : massacc ] shows the gas and dm mass accretion history for each of our four haloes .",
    "the mass accretion at a given redshift was computed as the ratio @xmath89    from this figure it is not easy to find dramatic differences between the four systems .",
    "the most clear difference is associated to the merger history of the haloes .",
    "the haloes with more mergers tend to have more peaks in the gas accretion evolution .",
    "this feature is directly associated to the large amount of mass accreted in a short time step .",
    "another difference shows up when we compare the dm mass accretion of the ls1 halo with the other three systems . in the lowest spin halo ( ls1 )",
    "the dm accretion evolution shows a slower slope compared with the others .",
    "[ fig : flux ] shows mollweide projections of the distribution of mass weighted in - falling gas angular momentum flux ( in units of m@xmath90 kpc km / s / yr / str ) at @xmath2 for the four different haloes at the top panel and the mass accretion flux ( in units of m@xmath90 /yr / str ) at the bottom panel .",
    "the angular momentum flux was computed as @xmath91 where the sum was performed including all cells at position @xmath92 inside a spherical shell of radius @xmath93 and thickness @xmath94 , with @xmath95 the cell side at the maximum level of refinement ; @xmath96 is the unitary vector in the @xmath92 direction . in the same way the mass flux was computed as @xmath97    from the figure ( bottom panel ) it is possible to see that the two fast rotating haloes hs2 and hs1 tend to acquire angular momentum flux from a preferred hemisphere , from south and north , respectively .",
    "another interesting remark is that both ls1and ls2 are acquiring angular momentum from nearly all directions without a preferred angle .",
    "from the bottom panel it is possible to see that the high angular momentum flux regions are good matched to the high mass flux regions .",
    "such a correlation suggests that most of the angular momentum accreted on the halo s central region is coming with the accreted mass ( as has been seen in more massive systems by @xcite and @xcite ) .              keeping the above analysis in mind , it is useful to look at fig .",
    "[ fig : vectorfield ] ( and fig .",
    "[ fig : haloesmap ] ) .",
    "this figure shows the tracer particles vector velocity field inside a sphere of radius r @xmath98 co - moving kpc around the corresponding halo colored by the initial sam value at redshift @xmath99 .",
    "the two red arrows located at the main halo center depict the dm sam ( solid line ) and the gas sam ( dashed line ) inside the virial radius .",
    "the vector field is shown at two different redshifts in order to illustrate the time evolution of the systems .",
    "the two most slowly rotating haloes , ls1 and ls2 , show a mostly radial accretion channeled through a number of filaments with the vector spin placed at the convergence point of the filaments . on the other hand , the two fastest rotating systems , hs1 and hs2 , develop a filament like structure with the halo vector spin more or less perpendicular to it .",
    "these suggest a relation between the structures around dm haloes , their gas in - falling pattern and their spin : haloes surrounded by a number of filaments tend to cancel out their accreted / merged sam whereas haloes located in the middle of a filament tend to receive the accreted / merged sam from a preferred direction resulting in a higher spin halo .",
    "we now turn our attention to the number of mergers that take place in each of the main haloes . because the number of mergers happening in the main four haloes is @xmath100 , they are too many as to describe each of them in detail",
    ". therefore we will focus on a particular merger event per system .",
    "[ fig : merger ] shows the sam and misalignment angle through a given merger event for each one of our haloes . as in previous figures the vertical lines shown the redshift of the merger event .",
    "the sam evolution shown on the top rows is decomposed as follows : the long dashed line corresponds to the main halo sam with respect to its own center of mass @xmath101 ; the short dashed line shows the orbital sam ( with respect to the main halo center of mass ) associated to the secondary halo going to merge with the main one , @xmath102 ; the dotted line corresponds to the accreted sam ( with respect to the main halo center of mass ) , @xmath103 , note that this line will appear after the vertical line showing the merger event ; finally the solid line is the modulus of the vectorial addition of the previous quantities : @xmath104 .    in three of the four systems ( ls1 , ls2 , hs1 ) @xmath102 dominates the sam before the merger . in the merger associated to the hs2 halo",
    ", @xmath101 is slightly larger than @xmath102 before the merger .",
    "this results tell us that from the main halo position the secondary halo going to merge brings a substantial amount of sam to the new system ( mainly due to the long radius @xmath92 in the sam @xmath105 computation ) . despite of this trend , it is interesting to note that after the merger the accreted material becomes the main source of sam in the four mergers shown here .",
    "the bottom row of our four panels shows the misalignment angle between different components of the @xmath106 vector .",
    "the different lines are : misalignment angle @xmath71 between @xmath107 and @xmath108 in solid line ; @xmath71 between @xmath107 and @xmath109 in long dashed line and @xmath71 between @xmath110 and @xmath111 in short dashed line .",
    "all different sam components are not aligned .",
    "the misalignment between all the different components is a consequence of partial cancellation of the total sam .",
    "this phenomenon can be seen in the fact that @xmath112 in all cases .",
    "the misalignment angle associated to the gas component fluctuates significantly after the merger events .",
    "it can be explained by the pressure waves created when the dense central regions of the progenitors interact .",
    "such process is able to create pressure torques , as explained in the previous section , resulting in a misalignment between the gas sam components .",
    "such torques are not present in the dm .    we have also computed the sam associated to a patch after the merger . in order to do",
    "so we have identified the particles inside the virial radius of the main halo at @xmath113 after the merger event .",
    "furthermore , we identified the particles belonging to the main and to the secondary halo before the merger . with these definitions we marked as the accreted material all the particles belonging to the final halo and not belonging either to the main nor the secondary halo .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : mergerpatch ] . the main difference with fig .",
    "[ fig : merger ] is that from the patch center of mass the orbital angular momentum associated to the secondary halo is not the dominant spin source of the system ( mainly due to the decrease of the radius @xmath92 in the sam @xmath105 computation ) . in three ( ls2 , hs2 and hs1 ) of the four systems",
    "the main source of spin is associated to accreted material .",
    "the bigger the @xmath114 the higher the contribution from accreted material , thus we can conclude that in a system suffering a few mergers the softly accreted material will dominate the sam source",
    ". only in one ( ls1 ) system the dominant source of spin is coming from the main halo . in this case",
    "the difference between the accreted and the main halo contribution is a factor @xmath115 2 : they are almost the same .",
    "the total dm sam of the patch is almost constant in the considered redshift range .",
    "table [ table1 ] and table [ table2 ] show all the relevant information about the merger processes with respect to the main halo ( labeled with 1 ) center of mass for dm and gas , respectively .",
    "two interesting remarks based on these tables are that the ls systems have an average mass merger ratio ( @xmath116 ) lower than the hs systems and that the average angular momentum ratio ( @xmath117 ) is higher for the hs systems compared to the ls ones .",
    "the environmental conditions around dm haloes seem to play a relevant role in the spin acquisition process ( as previously suggested by @xcite but with a less detailed study as the one shown here ) . because of this it is worth to study in more detail the filamentary structure of each halo and their position in the cosmic web .    here",
    "it is useful to come back to fig .",
    "[ fig : haloesmap ] .",
    "if we look at the first row of the systems ls1 ( top left ) and ls2 ( top right ) it is clear that around @xmath118 the main halos of these two systems were surrounded by a number ( @xmath119 ) of filaments converging into a knot .",
    "such special location creates a necessary condition for the sam cancellation inside the virial radius . in such location",
    "all the material ( accreted and merged ) bringing a given amount of sam will be able to cancel the total sam value if from another direction is coming material with a comparable amount of sam but pointing in another direction ( which seems to be the general case as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : merger ] and fig .",
    "[ fig : flux ] ) .",
    "this process can explain the low spin associated to these two haloes below @xmath120 .",
    "looking at the first row of fig .",
    "[ fig : haloesmap ] for the high spin systems , hs1 ( bottom right ) and hs2 ( bottom left ) , we observe that at @xmath118 they are not in a knot of the cosmic web ( as in the ls cases ) .",
    "while the hs2 halo is the composition of three over - densities ( the result of two mergers around @xmath121 , see fig .",
    "[ fig : spinhalo ] ) inside a thin filament of length @xmath122 co - moving kpc , the hs1 halo has a single over - density in the center and it is going to merge with a secondary halo belonging to a thin filament of length @xmath123 co - moving kpc pointing to the top right corner of the box ( this will be the merger associated to the vertical line at @xmath19 in fig .",
    "[ fig : spinhalo ] ) .",
    "these systems suffered important mergers at @xmath124 .",
    "looking at table [ table1 ] the average merger mass ratio is higher for the hs systems compared with the ls systems and the same trend can be seen in the haloes spin ratio .",
    "such features suggest that mergers are an important source of spin in the hs systems .    in order to quantify the results presented above we compute the filamentary structure of our systems .",
    "we compute at each snapshot the direction of the largest filaments connected to the main halo center .",
    "filaments are computed using the disperse code @xcite , which computes for a particle distribution the delaunay tessellation and uses discrete morse theory to characterise the topology of the density field , i.e. critical / saddle points , lines and surfaces .",
    "filaments are then traced by the saddle points connecting two local maximum critical points .",
    "the advantages of this method are : i ) it is scale - free thus filaments are purely defined by the point distribution , and a persistence threshold defined as the  number of sigmas \" with respect to poisson noise .",
    "ii ) there is no smoothing involved in the density field computation ; it uses directly the delaunay tessellation , then it uses all available data specially useful to resolve filaments in poorly sampled fields with few particles .",
    "iii ) only the direction of the filaments is needed , thus only filament skeletons are required and not the thickness or filament membership computed by more sophisticated methods .",
    "the filaments directions are computed for each snapshot in the following way :    * we run disperse code with a persistence threshold of @xmath125 .",
    "this parameter is tuned to find only strong filaments which correlate very well with a visual inspection or other methods where typical filaments have a density contrast at least @xmath126 times above average density @xcite .",
    "* from the filaments found in this way , we select only those which reach the central halo .",
    "that is , the filaments containing a critical point matching the fof halo center .",
    "* filaments are ranked by length and number of bifurcations / segments .",
    "* we compute the filament direction by averaging the filament path from the halo center up to a distance of @xmath127 kpc or @xmath128 depending on which value is smaller .",
    "we found in general that filaments are quite straight and radial at close distances , but beyond a few virial radii they warp and bifurcate into smaller filaments , making it hard to define a global filament direction .",
    "* the final most relevant filament is chosen by visual inspection among the few filaments detected automatically , and results are in very good agreement between human and automated criterion , this last step is mostly intended to check consistency .     angle orientation . ]",
    "[ fig : dmfilaments1 ] and [ fig : dmfilaments2 ] show the dm structure for our four systems with the filamentary structure ( in red lines ) computed following the prescription described above .",
    "these figures show the dm evolution ( in different columns ) from two different almost perpendicular angles ( in different rows ) .",
    "[ fig : dmfilaments1 ] shows the evolution for the ls systems .",
    "ls1 corresponds to the first two rows and ls2 to the last two rows .",
    "it is clear that the ls systems are located in a knot inside the cosmic web , i.e. they are located at an over - dense region surrounded by a number of converging filaments ( @xmath129 ) .",
    "looking at the last column of the figure , it is worth to note that the filamentary inside - out extension does not vary too much from different view angles .",
    "such conditions constrain the accreted material to converge on the knot from different directions providing an efficient sam cancellation inside the virial radius .",
    "[ fig : dmfilaments2 ] shows the hs systems .",
    "hs1 corresponds to the first two rows and hs2 to the last two rows . in this case",
    "the two perpendicular views where selected to show a face - on view of the plane hosting the central halo ( corresponding to the first row for each system ) and an edge - on view of the same plane ( corresponding to the second row for each systems ) . from the figure , it is possible to see how the collapse process of the wall hosting the central halo proceeds : it starts as a few parallel filaments to finish as a thick filament ( an angle view effect ) crossing the box . from the face - on view of both planes",
    "it is clear that the central haloes are located in a filament belonging to the collapsed wall ( marked by a red line crossing the box in the last column ) . for hs systems , such conditions tend to constrain the accreted material to be mostly inside a filament belonging the wall .",
    "such configuration makes the sam cancellation process not as efficient as in the ls knot - located systems .",
    "this picture is supported by the fact that there are not too many red lines perpendicular to the dm plane associated to the wall .",
    "this feature marks a clear difference with the ls systems where there is no a preferred plane hosting the filaments .",
    "[ fig : filangle ] shows the angle between the dm sam and the first two main filaments associated to the halo .",
    "our four systems show an angle fluctuating around @xmath130 for redshift @xmath67 .",
    "it is interesting to note that mergers are correlated with sharp fluctuations of the angle .",
    "such fluctuations are consequences of the re - configuration of the dm spin after violent merger events .",
    "another interesting feature associated to mergers is the dispersion of the angle around @xmath130 .",
    "ls2 and hs1 show the larger dispersion and at the same time these two systems show the larger number of mergers which , as mentioned before , can explain such angle deviations .",
    "the @xmath131 orientation can be understood in the following way : as shown before , most of the sam is accreted through filaments onto the halo center , under such conditions any sam component of the halo parallel to the filamentary sam flux will be cancelled constraining the halo s sam to a plane perpendicular to the filamentary accretion .",
    "this spin orientation mechanism is similar to the one discussed by @xcite in the high mass ( @xmath132m@xmath36 ) range .",
    "fig  [ fig : lvsn ] shows @xmath23 against the number of filaments @xmath133 around @xmath2 for the 4 halos simulated in this paper ( diamond symbols ) .",
    "we found an anti - correlation between the number of filaments that converge at the dm halo and its spin value .",
    "as a function of the number of filaments @xmath133 converging to the dm halo around redshift @xmath2 .",
    "diamonds correspond to the four halos simulated in this paper including gas .",
    "the blue points are for 436 dm - only halos .",
    "there is a significant anti correlation between spin and number of filaments covering to the halo .",
    "the red solid line is the fit from eq .",
    "[ eq : lvsn].,height=302 ]    despite of the small data sample ( 4 haloes ) , we can see a clear anti - correlation supporting our previous discussion . because the above anti - correlation is so interesting , we investigated it in dm - only simulations ; these consist of simulations with @xmath134 , with a particle mass of @xmath135 m@xmath90 .",
    "the blue points of fig .",
    "[ fig : lvsn ] show the dependence between the halo spin and the number of filaments connected to the halo center .",
    "we show results for @xmath136 halos in the mass range @xmath137 , selecting 4 spin bins with error bars showing the @xmath138 uncertainty from bootstrapping .",
    "filaments are computed using disperse code with a @xmath125 detection threshold .",
    "there is a significant trend that confirms the one found with the 4 halos simulated in this paper : lower spin halos have more filaments connected to them while higher spin halos have less filaments connected them .",
    "the correlation can be written as    @xmath139    at this point it is interesting to come back to fig .",
    "[ fig : lambda ] .",
    "the @xmath23 parameter changes significantly with redshift for each halo .",
    "in particular it is interesting to understand @xmath23 variations in both ls1 and hs2 systems . for these systems the spin parameter changes from @xmath140 to @xmath141 during their evolution .",
    "such changes can be fully understood following the picture presented in the analysis above .",
    "the ls1 system starts with @xmath142 at @xmath143 . at this stage",
    "the main halo is inside a small filament . at @xmath144",
    "the system receives a merger through the filament increasing its spin parameter till @xmath145 . after that the system starts to accrete mass isotropically till it forms a clear convergent filamentary structure around it resulting in a low spin system at @xmath146 .",
    "the hs2 system starts with a high spin parameter at @xmath147 .",
    "after the merger at @xmath148 the system does not belong to a filament and starts to accrete mass rather isotropically .",
    "this explains the reduction of the spin till @xmath141 at @xmath144 . at this stage",
    "the system has developed a clear filamentary structure and most of the accreted material starts to come from this preferential direction .",
    "the system continues accreting mass till the it receives two mergers at @xmath149 when @xmath23 reaches the value @xmath140 ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : fluxfil ] .     to a well defined filamentary accretion at @xmath150",
    "( the filament is defined by the strong accretion ( yellow blob ) at angle @xmath151 .",
    "this transition from an homogeneous to filamentary accretion explains the spin parameter evolution of hs2 in fig .",
    "[ fig : lambda].,width=340,height=415 ]    the emerging picture from the above simulations seems to be one in which the merging process , which in turn is determined by environmental location , determines the final value of the halo spin .",
    "we have performed numerical simulations of atomic cooling halos with the aim of understanding the origin of angular momentum in galaxies .",
    "atomic cooling halos maybe rare objects in the sky , but they are pristine sites of galaxies formation where the complications of star formation and subsequent feedback are avoided .",
    "they therefore provide an excellent testbed to explore our theories for galaxy formation .",
    "the numerical experiments we have performed are for four values of the halo spin parameter @xmath152 thus sampling the 1 and 2@xmath153 ranges of the theoretically predicted lcdm probability distribution function for dark matter halos .",
    "we have shown that before turn - around the spin value of the halos follows that predicted by tidal torque theory and that after turn - around the spin value is influenced by the number and direction of mergers and accreting dark matter .",
    "while this might lead one to think that after turn around the angular momentum of the gas and dark matter will be totally random , we show this not to be the case .",
    "the final angular momentum of dark matter is strongly correlated to the morphology of the cosmic web where the halos reside . in this respect ,",
    "halos with low angular momentum are those residing at the center of two or more filament crossings , while halos with high angular momentum are those residing in the middle of a filament and away from the knots of the cosmic web .",
    "there is a clear anti - correlation between the number of filaments and the final angular momentum . the physical picture that we find is that where many filaments cross , the flow of dark matter is from many directions and thus , by randomization , one ends up destroying angular momentum as it comes from different directions .",
    "on the other hand , if the halo is positioned in the middle of a filament , there is only one preferred direction from where dark and baryonic matter is accreted thus preserving the angular momentum originally determined by tidal torque theory . on the other hand , we find that the angular momentum of the gas is dominated by gradient pressures and that this causes fluctuations and misalignment with respect to the dm angular momentum , thus making it more unpredictable .",
    "our findings point to a picture in which the angular momentum of dm halos is obtained by features in the lcdm that are very deterministic : the rate at which other halos and dark matter are being accreted , and the morphology of the cosmic web .",
    "however , the angular momentum of the gas is driven by the gas physics itself , making it disconnected to the one of the underlying dm .",
    "zh acknowledges support from nasa grant nnx11ae05 g .",
    "jp and rj acknowledge support from mineco grant fpa2011 - 29678-c02 - 02 .",
    "jp acknowledges support from anillo de ciencia y tecnologia ( project act1101 ) .",
    "jp also thanks yohan dubois for providing the tracer particle patch for the ramses code .",
    "reg was supported by proyecto financiamiento basal pfb-06 centro de astronomia y tecnologias afines and proyecto comit mixto eso 3312 - 013 - 82 .",
    "the geryon cluster at the centro de astro - ingenieria uc was extensively used for the analysis calculations performed in this paper .",
    "the anillo act-86 , fondequip aic-57 , and quimal 130008 provided funding for several improvements to the geryon cluster .    99    avila - reese v. , firmani c. , hernandez x. , 1998 , apj , 505 , 37 barnes , j. , & efstathiou , g.  1987 , apj , 319 , 575 bullock j. s. , kolatt t. s. , kravtsov a. v. , klypin a. a. , porciani c. & primack j. r. , 2001a , apj , 555 , 240 bromm v. & yoshida n. 2011 , ara&a , 49 , 373 p. catelan , m. kamionkowski , and r. d. blandford ,  2001 , mnras 320 , l7 .",
    "catelan , p. , & porciani , c.  2001 , mnras , 323 , 713 codis s. , pichon c. , devriendt j. , slyz a. , pogosyan d. , dubois y. & sousbie t. , 2012 , mnras , 427 , 3320 colberg j. m. , krughoff k. s. & connolly a. j. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 272 crittenden , r.  g. , natarajan , p. , pen , u .- l .",
    ", & theuns , t.  2001 , apj , 559 , 552 davis a.  j. , natarajan p. , 2010 ,",
    "mnras , 407 , 691 dalcanton , j.  j. , spergel , d.  n. , & summers , f.  j.  1997 , apj , 482 , 659 doroshkevich a.  g. , 1970 , afz , 6 , 581 dubois y. , pichon c. , haehnelt m. , kimm t. , slyz a. , devriendt j. , & pogosyan d. , 2012 , mnras , 423 , 3616 fall , s.  m. , & efstathiou , g.  1980 , mnras , 193 , 189 ferrara a. , 2010 , aipc , 1294 , 148 fialkov a. , barkana r. , visbal e. , tseliakhovich d. , hirata c.  m. , 2013 , mnras , 432 , 2909 gonzlez r. e. & padilla n. d. , 2010 , mnras , 407 , 1449 grassi t. , bovino s. , schleicher d. r. g. , prieto j. , seifried d. , simoncini e. & gianturco f. a. , 2014 , mnras , 439 , 2386 hahn , o. , porciani , c. , carollo , c.  m. , & dekel , a.  2007 , mnras , 375 , 489 heavens , a. , & peacock , j.  1988 , mnras , 232 , 339 hetznecker h. , burkert a. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 1905 jimenez , r. , heavens , a.  f. , hawkins , m.  r.  s. , & padoan , p.  1997 , mnras , 292 , l5 jimenez r. , et al . , 2010 , mnras , 404 , 975 mo h. j. , mao s. , white s. d. m. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 peebles p. j. e. , 1969 , apj , 155 , 393 pichon c. & bernardeu f. , 1999 , a&a , 343 , 663 pichon c. , pogosyan d. , kimm , t. , slyz , a. , devriendt , j. & dubois , y. , 2011 , mnras , 418 , 2493 pen , ue - li ; lee , jounghun ; seljak , uros , 2000 , apj , 543 , 107 planck collaboration , 2013 , arxiv:1303.5076p porciani c. , dekel a. , hoffman y. , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 325 prieto j.  p. , infante l. , jimenez r. , 2008 , arxiv , arxiv:0809.2786 prieto j. , jimenez r. , haiman z. , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 2301 prunet s. , pichon c. , aubert d. , pogosyan d. , teyssier r. & gottloeber s. , 2008 , apjs , 178 , 179 schaefer , b. m. , 2008 , arxiv:0808.0203 sousbie t. , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 350 teyssier r. , 2002 , a&a , 385 , 337 toomre , a.  1964 , apj , 139 , 1217 truelove j. k. , klein r. i. , mckee ch .",
    "f. , holliman j. h. , howell l. h. & greenough j. a. , 1997 , apjl , 489 , 179 vitvitska m. , klypin a. a. , kravtsov a. v. & wechsler r. h. , 2002 , apj , 581 , 799 white , s.  d.  m. , & rees , m.  j.  1978 , mnras , 183 , 341 white s. , 1984 , apj , 286 , 38 powell l. c. , slyz a. & devriendt j. , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 3671",
    "the tables in this section list merger related parameters for the four halos studied in this paper .",
    "label 1 denotes quantities associated to the main halo , while label 2 the quantities associated to the secondary progenitor , the label orb denotes quantities associated to the orbital angular momentum associated to the secondary progenitor and the label acc quantities associated to the accreted angular momentum ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in order to elucidate the origin of spin in both dark matter and baryons in galaxies , we have performed hydrodynamical simulations from cosmological initial conditions . </S>",
    "<S> we study atomic cooling haloes in the redshift range @xmath0 with masses of order @xmath1 at redshift @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> we assume that the gas has primordial composition and that @xmath3-cooling and prior star - formation in the haloes have been suppressed . </S>",
    "<S> we present a comprehensive analysis of the gas and dark matter properties of four halos with very low ( @xmath4 ) , low ( @xmath5 ) , high ( @xmath6 ) and very high ( @xmath7 ) spin parameter . </S>",
    "<S> our main conclusion is that the spin orientation and magnitude is initially well described by tidal torque linear theory , but later on is determined by the merging and accretion history of each halo . </S>",
    "<S> we provide evidence that the topology of the merging region , i.e. the number of colliding filaments , gives an accurate prediction for the spin of dark matter and gas : halos at the center of knots will have low spin while those in the center of filaments will have high spin . </S>",
    "<S> the spin of a halo is given by @xmath8 .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : formation  large - scale structure of the universe  stars : formation  turbulence . </S>"
  ]
}