{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , an increasing number of objects have been discovered that occupy asteroid - like orbits in the main asteroid belt but have shown evidence of comet - like activity , typically in the form of transient comet - like dust emission .",
    "the suspected sources of this dust emission vary .",
    "some instances of activity are believed to result from comet - like sublimation of volatile sub - surface ice ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the objects exhibiting this type of activity have come to be known as main - belt comets ( mbcs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for most mbcs ,",
    "the presence of gas is only inferred by the presence and behavior of visible dust emission and is not directly detected . however , a direct detection of water vapor outgassing has recently been made for main - belt object ( 1 ) ceres by the @xmath6 @xcite , marking the first time that sublimation on a main - belt object has been unambiguously detected .    in other instances ,",
    "apparent comet - like dust emission is found to be the result of impacts , rotational destabilization , or a combination of several of these types of effects ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in these cases",
    ", the objects can be referred to as disrupted asteroids ( cf .",
    "instances where a combination of both sublimation and disruptive effects may be responsible for activity are also possible , such as the cases of 133p / elst - pizarro , for which rapid nucleus rotation may enhance the strength of its repeated dust emission events @xcite , and p/2013 r3 ( catalina - panstarrs ) , for which rapid nucleus rotation may have induced its distintegration , but sublimation may have been responsible for ongoing post - disintegration activity @xcite . in such cases ,",
    "the inferred presence of ice is the defining characteristic , and as such , we still consider these objects as mbcs .",
    "mbcs have attracted interest in astrobiology for their potential to constrain theoretical studies indicating that material from the asteroid belt region could have been a significant primordial source of the water and other volatiles on earth ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the existence of water in the asteroid belt in the past has long been inferred from the existence of hydrated minerals in ci and cm carbonaceous chondrite meteorites believed to originate from main - belt asteroids ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as from spectroscopic observations of asteroids themselves ( cf .",
    "if ice is still present today in the asteroid belt , as the mbcs and other recent work ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggests , it would represent a opportunity to probe a potential primordial water source through compositional and isotopic studies using either in situ measurements by a visiting spacecraft or some of the next - generation extremely large telescopes now in development .",
    "icy asteroids also contain some of the least altered material from the inner part of the protosolar disk still in existence today , and could give insights into the early stages of the formation of our solar system .",
    "the added bonus of their close proximity in the main asteroid belt means that in situ spacecraft studies are feasible given present - day technical capabilities .",
    "collectively , mbcs and disrupted asteroids comprise the class of objects known as active asteroids ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "orbits of small solar system bodies are typically classified as asteroidal or cometary using the tisserand parameter , or tisserand invariant , with respect to jupiter , @xmath7 , as the primary dynamical discriminant , where asteroids have @xmath8 and comets have @xmath9 @xcite . as such ,",
    "a full accounting of active asteroids includes not only objects found in the main asteroid belt , but also other comet - like objects such as ( 2201 ) oljato , ( 3200 ) phaethon , and 107p/(4015 ) wilson - harrington @xcite , which have @xmath8 but whose orbits carry them well outside the asteroid belt . in this work here , however , we are primarily interested in objects in the main asteroid belt .",
    "the currently known active asteroids found in the main asteroid belt , along with their orbital elements and absolute magnitudes , are listed in table  [ table : knownaas ] .",
    "the most likely classification of each object as either a mbc or disrupted asteroid based on the available evidence ( e.g. , numerical modeling indicating whether dust production is impulsive or ongoing , photometric measurements showing steady , increasing , or decreasing dust cross - sections , or observations of repeated activity ; cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is also indicated , except for 233p / la sagra , for which no physical analysis is available at this time .",
    "we also plot the orbital elements of the known active asteroids in the main asteroid belt in figure  [ figure : mbcs_aei ] .",
    ".known active main - belt asteroids@xmath10 [ cols=\"<,^,>,>,>,>,>,>,^ \" , ]     [ table : rubblemantles ]    for freshly exposed ice , the subsolar approximation ( @xmath11 ) may be appropriate .",
    "however , once a diurnally insulating rubble mantle has formed , material located below the diurnal thermal skin depth effectively assumes the diurnally averaged temperature at the object s current heliocentric distance , making the isothermal case ( @xmath12 ) the better approximation .",
    "as the mantle grows thicker , subsurface ice experiences lower peak temperatures , the diffusion barrier becomes thicker , and the reduced gas flow is less able to eject large particles , which leads to a more fine - grained and thus less permeable mantle .",
    "all of these factors decrease the water emission rate . for our analysis here where we are concerned with observable activity , we are interested in the timescale for the formation of a mantle that is thinner than the seasonal skin depth , but may be several diurnal skin depths thick .    assuming @xmath13  m and @xmath14  m , we compute water sublimation rates ( for surface ice ) and critical dust particle radii for objects at typical perihelion , semimajor axis , and aphelion distances for outer - belt mbcs ( 2.5  au , 3.1  au , and 3.8  au , respectively ) for these two cases , i.e. , no mantle and @xmath11 , and a mantle with a thickness on the order of the diurnal skin depth and @xmath12 ( table  [ table : rubblemantles ] ) .",
    "we also compute sublimation efficiencies , effective sublimation rates ( i.e. , the product of the base sublimation rate and the sublimation efficiency ) , and mantle growth rates in these two situations .",
    "our results show that in the absence of a mantle ( i.e. , for fresh surface ice ) , where we assume @xmath11 , the effective sublimation rate and mantle formation rate are initially high at any position in the orbit of a typical mbc ( from @xmath15  au to @xmath16  au ) . as the subsolar regime transitions into the isothermal regime , the effective sublimation rate and the mantling rate decrease , and also become more strongly dependent on heliocentric distance , decreasing by about four orders of magnitude from perihelion to aphelion for @xmath12 ( cf",
    ".  figure  [ figure : sublim_rate_heliodist ] ; table  [ table : rubblemantles ] ) . during this transition ,",
    "strong activity , and therefore significant mantle growth ( since the mantle growth rate is directly related to activity strength ) , should increasingly become confined to the region of the mbc s orbit near perihelion .",
    "a detailed consideration of the transition between the subsolar and isothermal regimes is beyond the needs of our analysis here , as it is sufficient to simply note that the formation timescale of a diurnally insulating mantle should lie between the formation timescales calculated under each approximation .",
    "a simple iterative calculation indicates that under the subsolar approximation , the mantle should reach one diurnal skin depth in thickness in a timescale of @xmath17  yr ( i.e. , several weeks ) from the time of the initiation of sublimation , while using the isothermal approximation , we calculate that the mantle should reach one diurnal skin depth in thickness in @xmath18  yr .",
    "therefore , the true formation time of a diurnally insulating mantle should lie in the range of @xmath19  yr , where we note that the longer formation timescales calculated using the isothermal approximation may actually correspond to the duration of multiple orbit periods since they only include the total time spent close to perihelion .",
    "eventually , the mantle should become so thick that it reduces even the peak sublimation - driven dust production rate to below detectable levels . at this point ,",
    "the object effectively becomes permanently inactive , that is until another impact event occurs and strips away enough surface material for sublimation to begin again .",
    "given that the timescale for another such impact to occur on the same body is far larger than a single orbit period for a typical mbc , however ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the crude estimates in table  [ table : rubblemantles ] provide a plausibility check that a mbc exhibiting cometary mass loss due to the sublimation of recently collisionally excavated ice at small heliocentric distances can be repeatedly active over multiple orbit passages ( e.g. , 133p and 238p ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite have carried out detailed model calculations of activity and mantle formation for comet p/2008 r1 ( garradd ) , with several sets of example parameters , and found that the emission of water decreases from one orbital period to another , but in some cases only slowly . @xcite and @xcite also computed comparable mass loss rates for 133p for active episodes separated by more than a decade ( after accounting for different values for grain size and density used in each analysis ) .",
    "our crude estimates in the first row of table  [ table : rubblemantles ] ( i.e. , for @xmath15  au ) , where ice initially retreats rapidly but slows significantly after a mantle of diurnal skin depth has formed , are consistent with these results .    ) for a typical mbc as a function of time spent near perihelion ( @xmath20  au ) ( blue line ) .",
    "we begin our calculations at 0.1  yr after the start of sublimation , which is the estimated time required for a diurnally insulating rubble mantle to form under the subsolar approximation ( vertical dashed line ) , assume an initial mantle depth of @xmath21 , and also assume @xmath12 for the duration of the modeled mantle growth .",
    ", width=412 ]    intriguingly , this analysis indicates that there could be a physical basis for expecting widespread low - level activity in the asteroid belt , as suggested by @xcite .",
    "we schematically illustrate the isothermal phase of mantle growth in figure  [ figure : mantle_growth ] where we numerically calculate and plot the effective sublimation rate ( @xmath22 ) at the perihelion distance of a typical mbc ( @xmath15  au ) as a function of time spent near perihelion .",
    "the calculations start at 0.1  yr ( i.e. , the time required for a diurnally insulating rubble mantle to form under the subsolar approximation ; vertical dashed line in figure  [ figure : mantle_growth ] ) after the start of sublimation , assume an initial mantle depth of @xmath23 , and assume @xmath12 for the duration of the modeled mantle growth .",
    "activity is seen to decline asymptotically , becoming suppressed to half of its initial strength on a timescale of @xmath24 years of mantle formation time , and then taking another @xmath25 years to halve again .",
    "this asymptotic decline in activity strength means that a mbc should spend a long period of time in a weakly active state , where we assume that the currently known mbcs exhibit comparatively strong activity ( since strong activity is easier to discover than weaker activity ) .",
    "this means that there could be a large population of mbcs that formerly exhibited mass loss rates comparable to that of the currently known objects ( @xmath26  kg  s@xmath27 ; e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but now exhibit long - lived but weaker activity that is just beyond the detection limits of current surveys .",
    "more sensitive future surveys capable of detecting weaker cometary activity than current surveys could be able to access this segment of the active mbc population , and we might therefore expect many more mbc discoveries to result from future search efforts .",
    "re - computation of mass loss rates from observations of 133p during its many observed active episodes @xcite using consistent values for relevant physical parameters and identical analysis techniques could also help test this hypothesis and set constraints on the rate of mbc activity attenuation .",
    "for simplicity , we have assumed that the water sublimation rate is directly related to the dust mass loss rate .",
    "the dust to gas ratio in mbcs is unconstrained by observations , however , and so a direct relation between the water sublimation rate and dust emission rate may not accurately represent reality .",
    "we also note that rapid rotation or jet - like emission could give rise to larger critical radii than those estimated in table  [ table : rubblemantles ] ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , leading to slower mantle growth",
    ". nonetheless , the timescale for the growth of a seasonal insulating rubble mantle , even in the extremely limiting case of a typical mbc at aphelion in the isothermal approximation , is still extremely short compared to the estimated dynamical lifetimes of these objects ( from @xmath420  myr to @xmath28  gyr ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . as such",
    ", they can not have been continuously active over their entire residence times in the main asteroid belt , and therefore a recent event , such as an impact that excavated subsurface ice , must have occurred on each of these objects to enable observable present - day sublimation to take place .",
    "the mechanism that we explore here , where the thermal wave associated with the perihelion passage of a mbc penetrates through a dry mantle until it reaches the ice and activates the comet via sublimation , is consistent with the pattern of nearly all mbcs exhibiting activity close to or shortly after perihelion .",
    "since the heat wave penetrates only slowly through the layer , there is a phase delay between the surface temperature and the temperature experienced by the ice .",
    "the thickness of the refractory mantle , relative to the thermal skin depth , can be expected to be associated with a delay in the activation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "without a mantle , activity may be expected to be nearly symmetric around perihelion . with a thick mantle",
    ", activation can be delayed even until after perihelion is reached .",
    "bodies in the middle main belt are typically warmer than in the outer main belt , and thus less likely to retain ice near the surface",
    ". this may not be the only reason why active mbcs are predominantly observed in the outer main belt and rarely in the middle main belt though .",
    "a population of middle - belt mbcs could exist , and upon being collisionally activated , the activity of these objects could be much more vigorous than for outer belt mbcs .",
    "however , this activity would also be expected to be shorter - lived due to more rapid mantle formation , and therefore less likely to be discovered than activity in outer - belt mbcs .",
    "the aim of this discussion is merely to outline a possible framework for understanding the observed pattern of mbc behavior , where more work is needed to examine other aspects of the activity modulation mechanism described here .",
    "for example , @xcite showed that an object s orbital obliquity can significantly reduce the overall average temperature of its surface over its lifetime , meaning that for objects with non - zero obliquity , the temperatures and sublimation rates discussed above represent upper limits to realistic cases .",
    "moreover , mantles of very low thermal conductivity cause additional cooling due to the amplitude dependence of @xmath29 thermal emission .",
    "a full treatment of this problem via detailed numerical modeling , which is beyond the scope of this work , should also include a more systematic exploration of the ranges of possible rotation rates , densities , porosities , heat capacities , thermal diffusivities , thermal inertias , ice - to - dust ratios , total volatile contents , and particle size distributions than are considered here .",
    "the analysis here is intended only to illustrate a possible mechanism for mbc activity modulation using physically plausible parameters , while a more complete exploration of the available parameter space would better determine the range of material properties and environmental conditions under which mbc activity can plausibly arise . in this",
    "regard , the discovery of even more mbcs as well as continued observational studies of known mbcs to determine their physical properties ( e.g. , nucleus sizes and rotation rates ) will also help constrain various aspects of the model framework outlined here .",
    "we report the following key points and make the following conclusions :    1 .",
    "we analyze a set of 760475 observations with @xmath30 of 333026 unique main - belt objects obtained by",
    "the ps1 survey telescope between 2012 may 20 and 2013 november 9 using @xmath31 , @xmath32 , @xmath33 , or @xmath34 filters .",
    "these observations include the discoveries of two main - belt comets , one disrupted asteroid , one active centaur , eighteen jupiter - family comets , and six long - period comets , as well as several observations of known main - belt comets , disrupted asteroids , and other comets",
    "the comet detection procedures currently in use for the ps1 survey consist of the comparison of the point - spread - functions of moving objects to those of reference stars in the same field , and the flagging of objects ( on the order of several hundred to several thousand per night ) that show significant psf excesses for human inspection ( details in [ appendix : comet_screening ] ) . the majority of these flagged detections can be immediately rejected as false detections , while a small number are selected for manual psf analysis , and an even smaller number are selected for observational follow - up . known",
    "issues that can result in missed comet discoveries include the misidentification of real objects as false detections , the subjectivity of the human review process , and the dependence of the discovery process on successful follow - up observations .",
    "morphology parameter measurements are also known to be less reliable for low s / n detections or detections in close proximity to bright field stars or galaxies , chip gaps , other detector defects , or masked regions , causing a further decrease in our comet discovery efficiency .",
    "based on the number of missed discovery opportunities by ps1 among comets discovered by other observers , we estimate an upper limit discovery efficiency rate of @xmath470% for ps1 .",
    "3 .   based on the statistics of the ps1-observed sample of asteroids observed shortly after perihelion ( @xmath35 ) where we expect activity detectable by ps1 to be present",
    ", we find an expected fraction of @xmath36  mbcs per @xmath1 outer main - belt asteroids and a 95% confidence limit upper limit of @xmath37  mbcs per @xmath1 outer main - belt asteroids , assuming a detection efficiency rate of @xmath38 , corresponding to a total expected population of @xmath2  mbcs and an upper limit population of @xmath39  mbcs with absolute magnitudes of @xmath3 and activity levels detectable by ps1 ( i.e. , equivalent to mass loss rates on the order of @xmath26  kg  s@xmath27 ) .",
    "the known mbc population in the outer main asteroid belt has significantly higher eccentricities than the background asteroid population . at these eccentricities ,",
    "the theoretical sublimation rate at perihelion is orders of magnitude larger than at aphelion , consistent with observations showing that mbcs peak in activity strength near perihelion .",
    "this implies that mbc activity is predominantly modulated by variations in heliocentric distance , rather than seasonal variations in solar illumination of isolated active sites related to the orientation of the rotation axis .",
    "these results indicate that the overall mantle growth rate should be slow , as significant mantling should only occur near perihelion , pointing to a process by which mbc activity can be sustained over multiple orbit passages .",
    "we review lessons learned from the ps1 survey that may help to improve the comet detection capabilities of future surveys ( [ appendix : futurelessons ] ) . at the current time , ps1 is unable to detect or is poor at detecting extremely bright objects exhibiting relatively faint activity ( i.e. , scheila - type objects ) , low - level activity with little or no effect on an object s psf ( i.e. , 133p - type objects ) , unresolved activity of the type that could be detected photometrically ( i.e. , chiron - type objects ) , and outbursts on extremely bright and large known comets ( i.e. , 17p / holmes - type objects ) .",
    "implementation of multiple screening methods , including radial psf comparison , linear psf comparison , modeling of trailed psfs , detection of azimuthally localized activity , comparison of photometry optimized for point sources and photometry optimized for extended sources , detection of photometric deviations from expected brightnesses , and crowd - sourcing , should help to fill these blind spots in future surveys .",
    "regardless of what method or methods are used , however , we emphasize that false detection minimization , balance between screening sensitivity and human and computational overheads , and robust follow - up observation plans should also be important considerations in the formulation of future comet detection systems .",
    "ps1 s exceptional success at discovering mbcs is likely largely due to its sensitivity to faint , low - activity comets .",
    "future surveys that will be sensitive to even fainter and lower - activity comets should find many more mbcs , perhaps even in excess of the expected population estimated in this paper , and therefore the development of robust comet detection algorithms for these surveys should be a high priority .",
    "sensitivity to faint comets will also aid studies of active centaurs , and long - term studies of earth - approaching comets .",
    "the recent detection of water vapor emission from ceres @xcite and probable detections of water ice on main - belt object ( 24 ) themis @xcite have provided additional evidence of present day water in the asteroid belt .",
    "these findings support the notion that water ice has been able to survive in a number of main - belt asteroids until the present day , and that mbc activity is being driven by sublimation .",
    "two priorities for future mbc research are the discovery of more mbcs , and the continued physical and dynamical characterization of individual mbcs and the population in general .",
    "while ps1 has been exceptionally successful at discovering mbcs ( and disrupted asteroids ) compared to previous and ongoing surveys , a substantial increase in the discovery rate is still needed to enable statistically meaningful analyses to be conducted of the spatial distribution of these objects . in turn",
    ", such analyses will enable the use of mbcs to trace the current water content of the asteroid belt , and therefore infer its primordial water content and distribution , subject of course to various dynamical disturbances that very likely occurred between the formation of the solar system and the present day ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "fortunately , the discovery power to accomplish such a leap should soon be available with wide - field high - spatial - resolution surveys using large aperture telescopes like the hsc survey and lsst . by going deeper than any previous surveys before them",
    ", they should be able to discover many more new mbcs , shedding new light on these still - enigmatic objects , and perhaps on our own origins as well .",
    "we thank pedro lacerda and bin yang and two anonymous referees for helpful comments on this manuscript .",
    "acknowledges support for this work by the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ) through hubble fellowship grant hf-51274.01 awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy ( aura ) for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "n.s . acknowledges support by nasa through the nasa astrobiology institute under cooperative agreement no .",
    "nna09da77a issued through the office of space science . j.k . acknowledges support through nsf grant ast 1010059 .",
    "the pan - starrs1 surveys ( ps1 ) have been made possible through contributions of the institute for astronomy , the university of hawaii , the pan - starrs project office , the max - planck society and its participating institutes , the max planck institute for astronomy , heidelberg and the max planck institute for extraterrestrial physics , garching , the johns hopkins university , durham university , the university of edinburgh , queen s university belfast , the harvard - smithsonian center for astrophysics , the las cumbres observatory global telescope network incorporated , the national central university of taiwan , the space telescope science institute , the national aeronautics and space administration under grant no .",
    "nnx08ar22 g issued through the planetary science division of the nasa science mission directorate , the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "ast-1238877 , the university of maryland , and eotvos lorand university ( elte ) .",
    "we thank the ps1 builders and ps1 operations staff for construction and operation of the ps1 system and access to the data products provided .",
    "in terms of the individual steps required for an object observed by ps1 to be discovered as a comet , first , a minimum of two detections of an object must be made , identified as transients by ipp , and linked as a tracklet by mops .",
    "a common situation in which this process may not occur successfully is when observations of a particular object in an observing sequence are lost to chip gaps or other unusable regions of the ps1 camera due to the the camera s @xmath475% effective fill factor ( which includes the effects of chip gaps , guide star cells , and masking of bad pixels , detector artifacts , and diffraction spikes ) .",
    "tracklet linking can also fail if variable sky conditions hinder successful subtraction of background sources , or cause some images of faint objects to fall below ipp s detectability threshold within an observing sequence even if the object is detectable in other exposures .",
    "if tracklet linking is completed successfully , the tracklet must then be flagged by the mops comet screening system , but as discussed above , reliable morphology parameter measurements ( on which our flagging system relies ) from ipp are not guaranteed , particularly for low @xmath40 detections or detections in close proximity to bright field stars or galaxies , chip gaps , or masked regions .",
    "a notable example of a comet being missed due to issues with tracklet linking is mbc p / la sagra . following its discovery on 2010 september 14 @xcite",
    ", it was found to have been clearly cometary in two sets of ps1 observations obtained in the month prior to its official discovery @xcite . on one night , it was observed twice , and in another , it was observed four times .",
    "however , the high false detection rate at the time meant that pairs of detections were considered unreliable , and so the first set of observations was simply ignored by the system .",
    "in the set of four detections , the object passed near a bright field star in one image , skewing its measured magnitude . at the time , mops required detections within a tracklet to have similar magnitudes to ward against mis - linked detections ( this is no longer true , largely due to this case ) , and so this tracklet was rejected and also never displayed for human review .",
    "the automated portion of the ps1 comet screening process identifies several hundred to several thousand comet candidates each night . of these , most are data artifacts ( e.g. , internal reflections , imperfectly - subtracted stationary sources , and diffraction spikes ; figure  [ figure : falsedetections ] ) , low @xmath40 detections , or saturated detections , giving a relatively large false positive rate on the order of a few hundred to one .",
    "it is however at a level that can be managed by a secondary level of human screening , where real objects can be rapidly identified by eye by a mops team member who then makes a visual assessment and , if warranted , a quantitative assessment of the cometary nature of the object .",
    "this initial evaluation process is subjective and can depend on the experience of the human screener on a given day , the amount of time that can be devoted to each day s screening given other operational priorities , and the number of objects flagged for evaluation on any particular night .",
    "this process can also be affected by other candidates in the same data set , since the discovery of several good candidates in a single night could necessitate the prioritization of follow - up efforts at the expense of lower - probability candidates , while a data set of generally poor quality may not be reviewed as carefully as a better quality data set .",
    "comet candidates that pass all the screening stages up to this point must then be scheduled for follow - up observations to confirm the activity , and also extend the orbital arc if the candidate is an unknown object .",
    "follow - up observations by ps1 team members are typically conducted with the university of hawaii 2.2  m telescope or cfht , both on mauna kea in hawaii , or the 2.0  m faulkes telescopes ( north and south ) on haleakala in hawaii and siding spring in australia .",
    "however , scheduling , weather , instrument availability , or other technical issues can sometimes prevent us from using these facilities .",
    "external observers are sometimes able to provide follow - up confirmation and astrometry , since we report all of our high - probability comet candidates to the mpc upon identification . prior to october 2013",
    ", the mpc would place comet candidates on their near - earth object confirmation page where experienced amateur observers and professional astronomers can view a list of high - priority targets needing follow - up observations .",
    "starting in october 2013 , the mpc introduced a new possible comet confirmation page , where comet candidates needing confirmation are now listed .",
    "however , the quality of observing facilities available to these external observers varies widely , and for very difficult ( i.e. , faint or marginal ) comet candidates , sometimes follow - up on 2-m - class professional telescopes or larger is required to obtain the observations that are needed .    if an object is already known and confirmation of cometary activity is all that is needed , delays in obtaining follow - up observations are often tolerable as cometary activity typically remains observable for at least several days , or even several weeks or months .",
    "since the time baseline spanned by the typical tracklet is usually only about one hour though , positional uncertainties based on initial orbit determinations of previously unknown objects are often large and increase rapidly . as such",
    ", follow - up typically has to be performed within several days of the original ps1 observations before the positional uncertainties simply grow too large for the object to be recovered , even by as large a camera as cfht s megacam and its @xmath41 field of view , in which case , the object is effectively lost .",
    "occasionally , precoveries or self - recoveries of objects are found among other ps1 observations , but due to survey constraints , we can not perform targeted follow - up with the ps1 telescope itself .",
    "ps1 observations of moving objects are not currently automatically stacked to create higher @xmath40 composite images ( although they are often manually stacked during the human - screening stage of the comet identification process ) . while such composite images are normally useful for searching for low - surface - brightness activity , the current level of inconsistency between ps1 observations of moving objects is sufficiently high that this technique would have limited usefulness as part of the automatic screening process .",
    "the small sizes of the individual ccds in the ps1 detector array means that one or more detections in a tracklet may be obstructed by a chip gap , thus contaminating the remaining gap - free images if these obstructed detections are indiscriminately included when stacking .",
    "chip defects that are automatically masked by ipp present a similar issue . in most cases , median stacking is unhelpful for compensating for this problem due to the small number of detections per tracklet .",
    "stacking data also hinders visual identification of poorly subtracted background objects that could be mistakenly interpreted as faint cometary features .",
    "given these considerations , we currently prefer to consider individual detections , looking for consistency of morphology measurements and visual appearance of detections within each tracklet .",
    "promising detections flagged during visual screening can then be manually stacked , allowing any undesirable detections within a tracklet to be identified and omitted .",
    "given the added sensitivity to low - level cometary activity that would be gained , though , automated stacking of all tracklets may be worthwhile to perform during post - processing of ps1 data , as well as in real - time for future surveys , if the complications discussed here can be mitigated .",
    "despite ps1 s success to date at discovering a wide range of comet - like objects , from classical comets to mbcs to das , it is important to note what types of comet - like objects ps1 is currently unable to detect , i.e. , the system s `` blind spots '' , so that future surveys can attempt to fill similar gaps in their comet discovery procedures . for example , comparison of asteroidal and stellar radial psfs is effective for detecting coma in minimally trailed objects , as we have demonstrated over the course of the ps1 survey , but is less effective for objects that are significantly trailed ( i.e. , for objects with large non - sidereal velocities , long exposure times , or both ) .",
    "this complication can be handled by measuring linear psfs perpendicular to the direction of trailing for both asteroids and stars instead of measuring radial psfs .",
    "this method will be sensitive to spherical coma or directed emission perpendicular to the direction of trailing , and will be insensitive to directed emission parallel to the direction of trailing , but at least permits trailed objects to be searched for activity at all .",
    "this type of analysis is already often manually performed on candidate comet images in ps1 data as part of the human review process to determine whether detected psf excesses are due to cometary activity or trailing effects , but automating the process for future surveys could prove productive .",
    "ps1 is currently unable to detect scheila - type objects , i.e. , large , bright objects that undergo substantial outbursts due to impacts or cometary activity , because such objects saturate the ps1 camera .",
    "this will be an even more severe problem with upcoming wide - field surveys using even larger aperture telescopes like lsst .",
    "this problem could be alleviated by the development of algorithms to detect excess sky flux far from the photocenter of any saturated moving objects , i.e. , in the presumably unsaturated wings of those objects psfs .",
    "meanwhile , relatively shallow surveys such as atlas @xcite could also potentially allow bright asteroids to be productively searched for activity .",
    "the potential for confusion of background objects or noise artifacts with comet - like activity by automated routines will be even higher for activity searches at large sky - plane separations from saturated objects , however , compared to searches for close - in activity of unsaturated objects similar to what we describe here .",
    "thus , even more care will need to be taken to mitigate the effect of false detections in this type of search .",
    "ps1 s automated flagging system relies entirely on the measurement of deviations in an object s psf as compared to psfs of nearby field stars ( section  [ section : ps1comets ] ) , and so another current blind spot for ps1 is the inability to detect comet - like activity ( e.g. , a faint dust tail ) that has minimal effect on an object s psf .",
    "a notable example of such an object is 133p @xcite . to account for objects like this ,",
    "we had originally intended to employ a tail - finding algorithm similar to that described in @xcite where a circular annulus is placed around each candidate object and divided into slices .",
    "the flux inside each slice can then be measured , with any excess flux along a particular azimuthal direction noted as an indication of possible directed dust emission such as a dust tail .",
    "this technique unfortunately was only minimally effective for finding comets in ps1 data due to the large number of data artifacts which led to an unmanageably large number of false positive detections , but may be more effective in analyzing higher quality data from future surveys .    searching for unresolved activity by looking for asteroids exhibiting photometric excesses compared to their expected brightnesses is another method for detecting cometary activity ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that is currently unimplemented as part of ps1 s comet screening procedures",
    ". work is ongoing to develop mechanisms for reliably detecting comets from photometry alone , but challenges are numerous .",
    "detecting photometric enhancements in asteroids relies on having accurate knowledge of their photometric brightnesses at the time of observation as well as their expected brightnesses based on their absolute magnitudes and phase functions .",
    "ps1 data are now fully photometrically calibrated across the entire sky @xcite , but the lack of accurate photometric references across the entire sky during the early stages of the survey impeded efforts to implement photometric activity detection until just recently .",
    "furthermore , accurate measurements of asteroid phase functions are lacking for a large segment of the main - belt population , meaning that predictions of the brightnesses of these objects must rely on relatively low - precision mpc data .",
    "photometric activity searches are still possible given these circumstances , but would only be sensitive to activity causing photometric enhancements in excess of the uncertainties due to imprecisely known predicted magnitudes as well as those due to imprecisely known observed magnitudes .",
    "however , given the large sizes of these uncertainties ( at least until recently ) , any objects showing such large photometric enhancements were probably exhibiting bright enough activity to be discovered via other means .",
    "this situation is greatly improved now , however , as ps1 data can now be considered photometrically reliable as discussed above , and thanks to ps1 , we have also amassed baseline photometry for a much larger segment of the main - belt population than was available before and so have been able to calculate phase functions for these asteroids ( vere et al . , 2014 , in prep ) .",
    "this method for searching for photometric indications of activity should therefore henceforth be much easier to conduct for both ps1 and other surveys , but will still remain limited to detecting activity that causes photometric enhancements in excess of the brightness uncertainties due to an object s unknown rotational state at the time of observations .    finally , there is the problem of automating the detection of comets that are extremely bright ( @xmath42  mag ; cf .",
    "table  [ table : sampledist ] ) , have large angular sizes , or both ( e.g. , figure  [ figure : ps1brightcomet]a ) , because of the difficulty of even identifying them as real sources using ps1 s point - source detection software .",
    "most bright comets are already known and so this problem likely does not result in a large number of missed comet discoveries by ps1 .",
    "previously unknown comets have occasionally been discovered due to undergoing sudden outbursts ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , however , and the inability of the ps1 system to automatically detect extremely bright objects means that we also risk missing the discovery of sudden cometary outbursts from known comets such as the one exhibited by 17p / holmes in 2007 @xcite .",
    "comets with unusual morphologies , without distinct central condensations , or that are otherwise extremely non - point - source - like present similar problems .",
    "p/2012 f5 ( gibbs ) was discovered on 2012 march 22 @xcite but appeared visibly cometary in ps1 data as early as 2011 december 6 , and again on 2012 february 28 ( figure  [ figure : ps1brightcomet]b ) .",
    "however , because its central condensation was so indistinct compared to the rest of the comet , and the comet itself was dominated by an extremely long and narrow tail , ipp and mops filters designed to screen out image artifacts like diffraction spikes rejected these detections , preventing them from ever entering the mops comet screening pipeline .",
    "it is difficult to conceive of what reasonable modifications or additions to the ps1 comet detection pipeline would allow us to deal with such unusual objects , and so for finding such comets in future surveys , perhaps the solution lies not in automation , but rather in the outsourcing of comet detection to the public via citizen science projects ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "such projects have been used to address problems in astronomy as diverse as classifying galaxy morphologies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , identifying supernovae @xcite , searching for infrared bubbles in the inner galactic plane @xcite , measuring structural properties of galaxies @xcite , searching for planetary transits in kepler data ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and locating precoveries of near - earth asteroids in sdss data @xcite . without fixed preconceived notions of what types of comet morphologies to search for that are inherent in any automated detection algorithm , citizen scientists could help ensure that comets with morphologies that are unexpected or simply difficult for automated routines to detect are not missed , while also adding the potential to make serendipitous discoveries of unexpected phenomena ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . while final evaluation of candidate objects would almost certainly still have to be done by professional astronomers , implementing citizen science comet detection programs could be a relatively low - effort way for future surveys to supplement automated detection pipelines with a large - scale human visual screening effort to minimize the chances of missing unusual comets .",
    "image of c/2012 k5 ( linear ) obtained by ps1 on 2013 january 7 .",
    "( b ) composite @xmath43-band image of p / gibbs constructed from data obtained by ps1 on 2011 december 06 .",
    "the area of sky shown is @xmath44 in size with north at the top and east to the left . in this image ,",
    "the dust trail is observed to extend @xmath45 to the northwest from the nucleus ( lower left corner ) .",
    "the grid - like pattern in the sky is due to chip gaps in the ps1 ccd mosaic .",
    ", width=480 ]    among several other practical lessons we can take from our experience with ps1 that are applicable to future surveys , we find that automated comet detection remains difficult to perform reliably , with major challenges including false detection minimization and coping with the wide range of comet morphologies that are possible . unfortunately , at least for ps1 , many common data artifacts have very comet - like morphologies ( cf .",
    "figure  [ figure : falsedetections ] ) , and so are routinely flagged as comet candidates by our automated detection system . minimizing the number of these obviously false detections was a critical requirement in the development of our comet screening procedures because while a rate of several hundred false detections for every real detection is manageable for a human screener , a rate of several thousand or tens of thousands to one ( as we originally had ) was simply intractable .",
    "even then , more subtle false detections frequently still require expert human review to identify , a process that has become comparatively more streamlined over time as we gained experience in recognizing the most common types of subtle false detections , but one that still represents a significant burden on human resources over the course of the survey .",
    "we therefore suggest that development of automated false detection algorithms that are as thorough and reliable as possible should be considered a high priority for any comet discovery efforts as part of future surveys .    in terms of dealing with comets with a wide range of morphologies , the best way to handle this issue",
    "may simply be the use of multiple screening methods .",
    "many possible screening methods that future surveys could implement are discussed above , including radial psf comparison , comparison of linear psfs measured perpendicular to the direction of an object s trailing , modeling of trailed psfs , searching for azimuthally localized excess flux around an object , comparison of an object s total flux to its peak flux as a measure of degree of condensation , searching for photometric enhancements of asteroids of known brightnesses , and crowd - sourcing .",
    "in addition to these screening methods , future surveys could also compare psf magnitudes ( which are measured by fitting a gaussian point - spread function model to an object , and are optimized for photometry of point - like sources ) and so - called model magnitudes ( which are optimized for photometry of extended objects such as galaxies , and provide more accurate photometry of resolved sources ) , where extended objects should show the largest deviations between the two measurements .",
    "this method was employed by @xcite to find comets in sdss data , and is also used by sdss for star - galaxy separation as well @xcite .",
    "similar screening methods including comparisons of aperture magnitudes and kron magnitudes to psf magnitudes were also explored for ps1 comet detection but were ultimately rejected due to decreased reliability of these parameters at faint magnitudes or near chip artifacts such as detector gaps or masks .",
    "the suitability of any of these methods for finding comets will depend on the specific characteristics of a given survey , but also on the cost in either human resources , computational power , or time needed to implement them . for initial screening , it may only be feasible to perform simple magnitude comparisons or basic psf comparisons using parameters produced automatically by a survey s general reduction pipeline , rather than more detailed custom analyses requiring access to image data that could represent unacceptable burdens on available computational resources , depending on the amount of data involved and the speed at which the data are processed .",
    "similarly , analyses that are excessively time - consuming because of the amount of computing resources or human intervention required may risk not being performed at all , and could also adversely affect the timeliness with which observational follow - up of candidates can be scheduled , putting their recoveries at risk .",
    "as such , when choosing the most suitable method or set of methods to search for comets , consideration of overheads is perhaps just as important as consideration of the absolute effectiveness of any particular comet detection scheme .",
    "finally , we must emphasize that a robust follow - up plan is an essential complement to any survey aiming to find comets .",
    "follow - up confirmation and astrometry of newly discovered comets has frequently been provided in the past by amateur astronomers using small telescopes ( @xmath46  m ) at sub - optimal observing sites . as comets discovered by advanced surveys include increasingly fainter and weaker comets , either by utilizing increasingly sensitive algorithms ( as ps1 does ) or increasingly larger telescopes ( as the hsc survey and lsst will do ) , follow - up observations will become increasingly out of the reach of amateur observers , necessitating the use of professional facilities .",
    "such facilities will generally not need to have comparable aperture sizes to the telescopes conducting the surveys in question , since they can simply use longer integration times .",
    "ideal requirements for any follow - up facilities , however , do include being located at sites with reliable observing - quality weather , availability of a wide - field imager most or all of the time , and the ability to rapidly respond to observation requests on short notice ( e.g. , through a queue - scheduled system or a rapid - response target - of - opportunity policy ) , where we note that self - follow - up by the original survey facility would also be suitable if it can be accommodated as part of ongoing survey operations .",
    "bauer , j.  m. , mainzer , a.  k. , grav , t. , et al .",
    "wise / neowise observations of active bodies in the main belt .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 747 , 49 .",
    "birtwhistle , p. , ryan , w.  h. , sato , h. , beshore , e.  c. , kadota , k. 2010 .",
    "a2 ( linear ) .",
    "bodewits , d. , kelley , m.  s. , li , j .- y . , landsman , w.  b. , besse , s. , & ahearn , m.  f.  2011 .",
    "collisional excavation of asteroid ( 596 ) scheila .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 733 , l3 .",
    "bolin , b. , denneau , l. , wainscoat , r.  j. , et al .",
    "s4 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3245 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , vere , p. , wainscoat , r.  j. , micheli , m. , draginda , a. , hormuth , f. , ries , j.  g. , sato , h. 2013a .",
    "g8 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3477 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , denneau , l. , vere , p. , et al .",
    "bm_80 = ( 323137 ) 2003 bm_80 .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3559 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , denneau , l. , wainscoat , r.  j. , et al .",
    "n3 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3583 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , hsieh , h.  h. , wainscoat , r.  j. , et al .",
    "o2 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3604 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , wainscoat , r.  j. , denneau , l. , micheli , m. , forshay , p. , woodworth , d. , williams , g.  v. 2013e .",
    "n5 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3617 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , micheli , m. , hsieh , h.  h. , et al . 2013f . comet p/2013 p1 ( panstarrs ) . cent .  bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3618 , 1 .",
    "bolin , b. , denneau , l. , micheli , m. , wainscoat , r.  j. , tholen , d.  j. , lister , t. 2013 g .",
    "p5 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3639 , 1 .",
    "bowell , e. , west , r.  m. , heyer , h .- h . , et al",
    "( 4015 ) 1979 va = comet wilson - harrington ( 1949 iii ) .",
    "burbine , t.  h. 1998 .",
    "could g - class asteroids be the parent bodies of the cm chondrites ?",
    "meteoritics & planet .",
    "33 , 253 - 258 .",
    "bus , s.  j. , bowell , e. , french , l.  m. 1988 .",
    "( 2060 ) chiron .",
    "buzzi , l. , muler , g. , kidger , m. , et al .  2007 .",
    "comet 17p / holmes .",
    "campins , h. , hargrove , k. , pinilla - alonso , n. , et al . 2010 . water ice and organics on the surface of the asteroid 24 themis . nature .",
    "464 , 1320 - 1321 .",
    "capria , m.  t. , marchi , s. , de sanctis , m.  c. , coradini , a. , ammannito , e. 2012 .",
    "the activity of main belt comets .",
    "537 , a71 .",
    "cardamone , c. , schawinski , k. , sarzi , m. , et al .",
    "galaxy zoo green peas : discovery of a class of compact extremely star - forming galaxies .",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "399 , 1191 - 1205 .",
    "castillo - rogez , j.  c.  2011 .",
    "ceres - neither a porous nor salty ball .",
    "215 , 599 - 602 .",
    "cikota , s. , ortiz , j.  l. , cikota , a. , morales , n. , tancredi , g. 2014 . a photometric search for active main belt asteroids .",
    "562 , a94 .",
    "delsemme , a.  h. , miller , d.  c. 1971 .",
    "physico - chemical phenomena in comets iii : the continuum of comet burnham ( 1960 ii ) . planet .",
    "space sci .",
    "19 , 1229 - 1257 .",
    "demeo , f.  e. , carry , b. 2013 . the taxonomic distribution of asteroids from multi - filter all - sky photometric surveys . icarus .",
    "226 , 723 - 741 .",
    "demeo , f.  e. , carry , b. 2014 .",
    "solar system evolution from compositional mapping of the asteroid belt .",
    "505 , 629 - 634 .",
    "denneau , l. , wainscoat , r.  j. , hsieh , h.  h. , et al .",
    "v1 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3289 , 1 .",
    "denneau , l. , jedicke , r.  j. , grav , t. , et al .",
    "the pan - starrs moving object processing system .",
    "125 , 357 - 395 .",
    "elst , e.  w. , pizarro , o. , pollas , c. , ticha , j. , tichy , m. , moravec , z. , offutt , w. , & marsden , b.  g. 1996 . comet p/1996 n2 ( elst - pizarro ) .",
    "iau circ .",
    "fanale , f.  p. , salvail , j.  r. 1989 .",
    "the water regime of asteroid ( 1 ) ceres .",
    "82 , 97 - 110 .",
    "farinella , p. , davis , d.  r. 1992 .",
    "collision rates and impact velocities in the main asteroid belt .",
    "97 , 111 - 123 .",
    "fernndez , j.  a. , gallardo , t. , brunini , a. 2002 .",
    "are there many inactive jupiter - family comets among the near - earth asteroid population ?",
    "159 , 358 - 368 .",
    "fischer , d.  a. , schwamb , m.  e. , schawinski , k. , et al .",
    "planet hunters : the first two planet candidates identified by the public using the _ kepler _ public archive data . mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "419 , 2900 - 2911 .",
    "garradd , g.  j. , sostero , g. , camilleri , p. , guido , e. , jacques , c. , & pimentel , e.  2008 . comet c/2008 r1 ( garradd ) .",
    "iau circ .  8969 , 1 .",
    "gibbs , a.  r. , sato , h. , ryan , w.  h. , et al .",
    "f5 ( gibbs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3069 , 1 .",
    "gilbert , a.  m. , & wiegert , p.  a. 2009 . searching for main - belt comets using the canada - france - hawaii telescope legacy survey .",
    "201 , 714 - 718 .",
    "gilbert , a.  m. , & wiegert , p.  a. 2010 . updated results of a search for main - belt comets using the canada - france - hawaii telescope legacy survey .",
    "210 , 998 - 999 .",
    "haghighipour , n. 2009 .",
    "dynamical constraints on the origin of main belt comets . meteor .  planet .",
    "44 , 1863 - 1869 .",
    "hainaut , o.  r. , kleyna , j. , sarid , g. , et al . 2012 .",
    "p/2010 a2 linear , i. an impact in the asteroid main belt .",
    "537 , a69 .",
    "hainaut , o.  r. , boehnhardt , h. , snodgrass , c. , et al .",
    "2014 . continued activity in p/2013 p5 panstarrs - the comet that should not be .",
    "astron .  astrophys . in press .",
    "hardorp , j. 1980 .",
    "the sun among the stars : ii . solar color , hyades",
    "metal content , and distance .",
    "88 , 334 - 344 .",
    "heiken , g.  h. , vaniman , d.  t. , french , b.  m. 1991 .",
    "lunar sourcebook : a user s guide to the moon .",
    "cambridge univ .  press .",
    "hill , r.  e. , bolin , b. , kleyna , j. , et al .",
    "r3 ( catalina - panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3658 , 1 .",
    "hiroi , t. , zolensky , m.  e. , pieters , c.  m. , lipschutz , m.  e. 1996 .",
    "thermal metamorphism of the c , g , b , and f asteroids seen from the 0.7 @xmath47 m , 3 @xmath47 m , and uv absorption strengths in comparison with carbonaceous chondrites .",
    "meteoritics & planet .",
    "31 , 321 - 327 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. 2009 . the hawaii trails project : comet - hunting in the main asteroid belt .",
    "505 , 1297 - 1310 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. 2014a , iau symposium , 293 , 212 - 218 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. 2014b .",
    "the nucleus of main - belt comet p/2010 r2 ( la sagra ) .",
    "icarus . in press .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , & jewitt , d. 2006 . a population of comets in the main asteroid belt .",
    "312 , 561 - 563 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , jewitt , d. , & fernndez , y.  r. 2004 .",
    "the strange case of 133p / elst - pizarro : a comet among the asteroids .",
    "j. 127 , 2997 - 3017 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , jewitt , d. , & pittichova , j.  2006 .",
    "re_70 = ( 118401 ) .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , jewitt , d. , & ishiguro , m. 2009a .",
    "physical properties of main - belt comet p/2005 u1 ( read ) . astron .",
    "j. 137 , 157 - 168 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , jewitt , d. , & fernndez , y.  r. 2009b .",
    "albedos of main - belt comets 133p / elst - pizarro and 176p / linear .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 694 , l111-l114 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , jewitt , d. , lacerda , p. , lowry , s.  c. , & snodgrass , c. 2010 .",
    "the return of activity in main - belt comet 133p / elst - pizarro .",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "403 , 363 - 377 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , ishiguro , m. , lacerda , p. , & jewitt , d. 2011a .",
    "physical properties of main - belt comet 176p / linear .",
    "j. 142 , 29 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , meech , k.  j. , & pittichov , j. 2011b .",
    "main - belt comet 238p / read revisited .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 736 , l18 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , denneau , l. , wainscoat , r.  j. , fitzsimmons , a. , armstrong , j.  d. , yang , b. , hergenrother , c. 2011c .",
    "vw_139 = ( 300163 ) 2006 vw_139 .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 2920 , 1 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , yang , b. , haghighipour , n. 2012a . optical and dynamical characterization of comet - like main - belt asteroid ( 596 ) scheila .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 744 , 9 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , yang , b. , haghighipour , n. , et al . 2012b .",
    "discovery of main - belt comet p/2006 vw@xmath48 by pan - starrs1 .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 748 , l15 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , yang , b. , haghighipour , n. , et al .",
    "observational and dynamical characterization of main - belt comet p/2010 r2 ( la sagra ) .",
    "astron .  journal .",
    "143 , 104 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , denneau , l. , micheli , m. , et al .",
    "x2 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3343 , 1 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , kaluna , h.  m. , novakovi , b. , et al .",
    "2013a . main - belt comet p/2012 t1 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 771 , l1 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , pohlen , m. , matulonis , a. 2013 .",
    "comet 133p / elst - pizarro .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3564 , 1 .",
    "hsieh , h.  h. , denneau , l. , fitzsimmons , a. , et al . 2014 .",
    "search for the return of activity in active asteroid 176p / linear .",
    "j. 147 , 89 .",
    "ishiguro , m. , hanayama , h. , hasegawa , s. , et al .",
    "observational evidence for an impact on the main - belt asteroid ( 596 ) scheila .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 740 , l11 .",
    "ishiguro , m. , hanayama , h. , hasegawa , s. , et al .",
    "interpretation of ( 596 ) scheila s triple dust tails .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 741 , l24 .",
    "ishiguro , m. , jewitt , d. , hanayama , h. , et al .",
    "2014 . outbursting comet p/2010 v1 ( ikeya - murakami ) : a miniature comet holmes .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. in press .",
    "jewitt , d. 1996 . from comets to asteroids",
    ": when hairy stars go bald .",
    "earth , moon , and planets .",
    "72 , 185 - 201 .",
    "jewitt , d. 2002 . from kuiper belt object to cometary nucleus : the missing ultrared matter .",
    "j. 123 , 1039 - 1049 .",
    "jewitt , d. 2009 .",
    "the active centaurs .",
    "j. 137 , 4296 - 4312 .",
    "jewitt , d. 2012 .",
    "the active asteroids . astronomical journal .",
    "jewitt , d. , lacerda , p. , peixinho , n. 2007 .",
    "comet 133p / elst - pizarro .",
    "iau circ .  8847 , 1 .",
    "jewitt , d. , yang , b. , & haghighipour , n.  2009 .",
    "main - belt comet p/2008 r1 ( garradd ) .",
    "j. 137 , 4313 - 4321 .",
    "jewitt , d. , weaver , h. , agarwal , j. , mutchler , m. , & drahus , m.  2010 . a recent disruption of the main - belt asteroid p/2010 a2 . nature .",
    "467 , 817 - 819 .",
    "jewitt , d. , stuart , j.  s. , li , j. 2011a .",
    "pre - discovery observations of disrupting asteroid p/2010 a2 .",
    "j. 142 , 28 .",
    "jewitt , d. , weaver , h. , mutchler , m. , larson , s. , & agarwal , j.  2011b .",
    "hubble space telescope observations of main - belt comet ( 596 ) scheila .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 733 , l4 .",
    "jewitt , d. , ishiguro , m. , agarwal , j. 2013a .",
    "large particles in active asteroid p/2010 a2 .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 764 , l5 .",
    "jewitt , d. , li , j. , agarwal , j. 2013b .",
    "the dust tail of asteroid ( 3200 ) phaethon .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 771 , l36 .",
    "jewitt , d. , agarwal , j. , weaver , h. , mutchler , m. , & larson , s.  2013c . the extraordinary multi - tailed main - belt comet p/2013 p5 . astrophys .",
    "j. 778 , l21 .",
    "jewitt , d. , agarwal , j. , li , j. , weaver , h.  a. , mutchler , m. , larson , s. 2014a . disintegrating asteroid p/2013 r3 .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 784 , l8 .",
    "jewitt , d. , ishiguro , m. , weaver , h.  a. , agarwal , j. , mutchler , m. , larson , s. 2014b .",
    "hubble space telescope investigation of main - belt comet 133p / elst - pizarro .",
    "j. 147 , 117 .",
    "kaluna , h. , & meech , k.  2011 .",
    "analysis of the activity on main belt comet 133p / elst - pizarro .",
    "epsc - dps joint meeting 2011 .",
    "keil , k. 2000 .",
    "thermal alteration of asteroids : evidence from meteorites .",
    "planet .  and",
    "space sci .",
    "48 , 887 - 903 .",
    "kendrew , s. , simpson , r. , bressert , e. , et al .",
    "the milky way project : a statistical study of massive star formation associated with infrared bubbles .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 755 , 71 .",
    "kossacki , k.  j. , szutowicz , s. 2012 .",
    "main belt comet p/2008 r1 garradd : duration of activity .",
    "217 , 66 - 76 .",
    "kowalski , r.  a. , hsieh , h.  h. , tholen , d.  j. , micheli , m. , elliott , g.  t. , williams , g.  v. 2012 .",
    "sb_6 ( lemmon ) .",
    "kresk , l.  1972 . on the dividing line between cometary and asteroidal orbits . in chebotarev g.",
    "a. , kazimirchak - polonskaia e.  i. , marsden b.  g. , eds , proc .",
    "iau symp .",
    "45 , the motion , evolution of orbits , and origin of comets .",
    "reidel , dordrecht .",
    "503 - 514 .",
    "kppers , m. , orourke , l. , bockele - morvan , d. , et al .",
    "localized sources of water vapor on the dwarf planet ( 1 ) ceres . nature .",
    "505 , 525 - 527 .",
    "larson , s.  m.  2010 .",
    "( 596 ) scheila .",
    "larson , s.  m. , micheli , m. , wainscoat , r.  j. , elliott , g.  t. , williams , g.  v. 2012 .",
    "tb_36 ( lemmon ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3269 , 1 .",
    "li , j .- y . , kelley , m.  s.  p. , knight , m.  m. , et al .",
    "2013 . characterizing the dust coma of comet",
    "c/2012 s1 ( ison ) at 4.15 au from the sun .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 779 , l3 .",
    "licandro , j. , moreno , f. , de len , j. , tozzi , g.  p. , lara , l.  m. , cabrera - lavers , a. 2013a . exploring the nature of new main - belt comets with the 10.4  m gtc telescope : ( 300163 )",
    "2006 vw@xmath48 .",
    "550 , a17 licandro , j. , moreno , f. , cabrera - lavers , a. , et al .",
    "r3 ( catalina - panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3679 , 1 .",
    "lin , h.  w. , chen , y.  t. , lacerda , p. , et al .",
    "pan - starrs 1 observations of the unusual active centaur p/2011 s1 ( gibbs ) .",
    "j. in press .",
    "lintott , c.  j. , schawinski , k. , ane , s. , et al .",
    "galaxy zoo : morphologies derived from visual inspection of galaxies from the sloan digital sky survey .",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "389 , 1179 - 1189 .",
    "lintott , c.  j. , schawinski , k. , keel , w. , et al .",
    "galaxy zoo : ` hanny s voorwerp ' , a quasar light echo ?",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "399 , 129 - 140 .",
    "lowry , s.  c. , fitzsimmons , a. 2005 .",
    "william herschel telescope observations of distant comets .",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "358 , 641 - 650 .",
    "maclennan , e.  m. , & hsieh , h.  h. 2012 .",
    "the nucleus of main - belt comet 259p / garradd .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 758 , l3 .",
    "magnier , e. 2006 . the pan - starrs ps1 image processing pipeline .",
    "proceedings of the advanced maui optical and space surveillance technologies conference , ed . : s. ryan ( kihei : the maui economic development board ) .",
    "magnier , e.  a. , schlafly , e.  f. , finkbeiner , d.  p. , et al .",
    "2013 . the pan - starrs1 photometric reference ladder , release 12.01 .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j.  suppl .  series .",
    "mainzer , a. , read , m.  t. , scotti , j.  v. , ryan , w.  h. , ryan , e.  v. 2010 .",
    "iau circ .  9117 , 1 .",
    "masiero , j.  r. , jedicke , r. , durech , j. , gwyn , s. , denneau , l. , larsen , j. 2009 .",
    "the thousand asteroid light curve survey .",
    "204 , 145 - 171 .",
    "mccord , t.  b. , sotin , c.  2005 .",
    "ceres : evolution and current state .",
    "journal of geophysical research ( planets ) , 110 , e05009 mccord , t.  b. , castillo - rogez , j. , rivkin , a.  2011 .",
    "ceres : its origin , evolution and structure and dawn s potential contribution .",
    "space sci .",
    "163 , 63 - 76 .",
    "meech , k.  j. , yang , b. , kleyna , j. , et al .",
    "outgassing behavior of c/2012 s1 ( ison ) from 2011 september to 2013 june . astrophs .",
    "j. 776 , l20 .",
    "morbidelli , a. , chambers , j. , lunine , j.  i. , petit , j.  m. , robert , f. , valsecchi , g.  b. , & cyr , k.  e. 2000 . source regions and timescales for the delivery of water to the earth .",
    "meteoritics & planet .",
    "35 , 1309 - 1320 .",
    "moreno , f. , lara , l.  m. , licandro , j. , ortiz , j.  l. , de len , j. , al - lagoa , v. , ags - gonzlez , b. , molina , a. 2011a .",
    "the dust environment of main - belt comet p/2010 r2 ( la sagra ) .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 738 , l16 .",
    "moreno , f. , licandro , j. , ortiz , j.  l. , et al .",
    "( 596 ) scheila in outburst : a probable collision event in the main asteroid belt .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 738 , 130 .",
    "moreno , f. , licandro , j. , cabrera - lavers , a. 2012 .",
    "a short - duration event as the cause of dust ejection from main - belt comet p/2012 f5 ( gibbs ) .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 761 , l12 .",
    "moreno , f. , cabrera - lavers , a. , vaduvescu , o. , licandro , j. , pozuelos , f. 2013 .",
    "the dust environment of main - belt comet p/2012 t1 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 770 , l30 .",
    "moreno , f. , licandro , j. , lvarez - iglesias , c. , cabrera - lavers , a. , & pozuelos , f.  2014 .",
    "intermittent dust mass loss from activated asteroid p/2013 p5 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 781 , 118 nakano , s. , ikeya , k. , murakami , s. itagaki , k. 2010 .",
    "comet 2010 v1 .",
    "nevski , v. , novichonok , a. , burhonov , o. , et al .",
    "s1 ( ison ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3238 , 1 .",
    "nomen , j. , marsden , b.  g. , birtwhistle , p. , et al .",
    "p/2010 r2 ( la sagra ) .",
    "novakovi , b. , hsieh , h.  h. , cellino , a. 2012 .",
    "p/2006 vw@xmath48 : a main - belt comet born in an asteroid collision ?",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "424 , 1432 - 1441 .",
    "novakovi , b. , hsieh , h.  h. , cellino , a. , micheli , m. , pedani , m. 2014 .",
    "discovery of a young asteroid cluster associated with p/2012 f5 ( gibbs ) .",
    "231 , 300 - 309 .",
    "obrien , d.  p. , morbidelli , a. , levison , h.  f. 2006 .",
    "terrestrial planet formation with strong dynamical friction .",
    "184 , 39 - 58 .",
    "orourke , l. , bockele - morvan , d. , biver , n. , et al .",
    "herschel and iram-30  m observations of comet c/2012 s1 ( ison ) at 4.5 au from the sun .",
    "560 , a101 .",
    "prialnik , d. , rosenberg , e.  d. 2009 .",
    "can ice survive in main - belt comets ?",
    "long - term evolution models of comet 133p / elst - pizarro . mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "399 , l79-l83 .",
    "raymond , s.  n. , quinn , t. , lunine , j.  i. 2004 .",
    "making other earths : dynamical simulations of terrestrial planet formation and water delivery .",
    "168 , 1 - 17 . read , m.  t. , bressi , t.  h. , gehrels , t. , scotti , j.  v. , & christensen , e.  j. 2005 . comet p/2005",
    "u1 ( read ) .",
    "rinner , c. , wainscoat , r.  j. , denneau , l. , et al .",
    "ce_31 ( moss ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3418 rivkin , a.  s. , howell , e.  s. , vilas , f. , lebofsky , l.  a. 2002 .",
    "hydrated minerals on asteroids : the astronomical record .",
    "asteroids iii , 235 - 253 .",
    "rivkin , a.  s. , emery , j.  p. 2010 .",
    "detection of ice and organics on an asteroidal surface .",
    "464 , 1322 - 1323 .",
    "russell , c.  t. , aroian , r. , arghavani , m. , & nock , k.  1984 .",
    "interplanetary magnetic field enhancements and their association with the asteroid 2201 oljato . science .",
    "226 , 43 - 45 .",
    "schlafly , e.  f. , finkbeiner , d.  p. , juri , m. , et al .",
    "photometric calibration of the first 1.5 years of the pan - starrs1 survey .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 756 , 158 .",
    "schrghofer , n. 2008 . the lifetime of ice on main belt asteroids .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 682 , 697 - 705 .",
    "schwamb , m.  e. , lintott , c.  j. , fischer , d.  a. , et al .",
    "planet hunters : assessing the _ kepler _ inventory of short - period planets . astrophys .",
    "j. 754 , 129 .",
    "schwartz , m. , holvorcem , p.  r. , wainscoat , r.  j. , micheli , m. , elliott , g.  t. , williams , g.  v. 2012 .",
    "tk_8 ( tenagra ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3262 , 1 .",
    "smith , a.  m. , lynn , s. , sullivan , m. , et al .",
    "galaxy zoo supernovae .",
    "mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "412 , 1309 - 1319 .",
    "snodgrass , c. , tubiana , c. , vincent , j .- b .",
    ", et al . 2010 . a collision in 2009 as the origin of the debris trail of asteroid p/2010 a2 .",
    "467 , 814 - 816 .",
    "solano , e. , rodrigo , c. , pulido , r. , carry , b. 2014 .",
    "precovery of near - earth asteroids by a citizen - science project of the spanish virtual observatory .",
    "335 , 142 - 149 .",
    "solontoi , m. , ivezi ,  . , west , a.  a. , et al . 2010 . detecting active comets in the sdss .",
    "205 , 605 - 618 .",
    "sonnett , s. , kleyna , j. , jedicke , r. , masiero , j. limits on the size and orbit distribution of main belt comets .",
    "215 , 534 - 546 stevenson , r. , kramer , e.  a. , bauer , j.  m. , masiero , j.  r. , mainzer , a.  k. 2012 .",
    "characterization of active main belt object p/2012 f5 ( gibbs ) : a possible impacted asteroid .",
    "j. 759 , 142 .",
    "strauss , m.  a. , weinberg , d.  h. , lupton , r.  h. , et al .",
    "spectroscopic target selection in the sloan digital sky survey : the main galaxy sample .",
    "j. 124 , 1810 - 1824 .",
    "takir , d. , emery , j.  p. 2012 .",
    "outer main belt asteroids : identification and distribution of four 3-@xmath47 m spectral groups .",
    "219 , 641 - 654 .",
    "tedesco , e.  f. , noah , p.  v. , noah , m. , price , s.  d. 2004 .",
    "iras minor planet survey .",
    "nasa planetary data system , iras - a - fpa-3-rdr - imps - v6.0 .",
    "tholen , d.  j. , hartmann , w.  k. , cruikshank , d.  p. , lilly , s. , bowell , e. , hewitt , a. 1988 .",
    "( 2060 ) chiron .",
    "tonry , j.  l. , stubbs , c.  w. , lykke , k.  r. , et al .",
    "the pan - starrs1 photometric system .",
    "j. 750 , 99 .",
    "tonry , j.  l.  2013 .",
    "pan - starrs , atlas , and optical transient searches . royal society of london philosophical transactions series a. 371 , 201220269 .",
    "tth , i. 2006 .",
    "search for comet - like activity in asteroid 7968 elst - pizarro and limitation of its rotational pole orientation .",
    "446 , 333 - 343 .",
    "vere , p. , micheli , m. , wainscoat , r.  j. , et al .",
    "wa_34 ( lemmon - panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3379 , 1 .",
    "vere , p. , denneau , l. , hsieh , h.  h. , et al .",
    "g4 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3473 , 1 .",
    "vere , p. , wainscoat , r.  j. , hsieh , h.  h. , micheli , m. , forshay , p. , williams , g.  v. 2013c .",
    "cu_129 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3558 , 1 .",
    "vinson , k. , thilker , d. 2013 . a boinc based citizen - science project for pixel spectral energy distribution fitting of resolved galaxies in multi - wavelength surveys . astronomy and computing . 3 , 1 - 12 .",
    "walsh , k.  j. , morbidelli , a. , raymond , s.  n. , obrien , d.  p. , mandell , a.  m. 2011 . a low mass for mars from jupiter s early gas - driven migration .",
    "475 , 206 - 209 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , micheli , m. , wells , l. , et al .",
    "l4 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , vere , p. , bolin , b. , birtwhistle , p. , armstrong , j.  d. , micheli , m , sato , h. , williams , g.  v. 2012 .",
    "s3 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3244 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , hsieh , h.  h. , denneau , l. , et al .",
    "t1 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3252 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , hsieh , h.  h. , sonnett , s. , et al .",
    "t2 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3254 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , denneau , l. , hsieh , h.  h. , kaluna , h.  m. , sheppard , s.  s. , trujillo , c.  a. , williams , g.  v. 2012 .",
    "t3 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3255 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , micheli , m. , sato , h. , et al .",
    "u1 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3264 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , hsieh , h.  h. , bolin , b. , buzzi , l. , sato , h. , williams , g.  v. 2012 .",
    "u2 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3268 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r. , micheli , m. , guido , e. , howes , n. , williams , g.  v. 2013a .",
    "g3 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3472 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r. , denneau , l. , micheli , m. , woodworth , d. , wells , l. , williams , g.  v. 2013b .",
    "j4 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3521 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r. , vere , p. , micheli , m. , et al .",
    "p4 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3638 , 1 .",
    "wainscoat , r.  j. , denneau , l. , vere , p. , et al .",
    "t1 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "bureau electr .",
    "telegrams 3668 , 1 .",
    "waszczak , a. , ofek , e.  o. , aharonson , o. , et al .",
    "main - belt comets in the palomar transient factory survey - i. the search for extendedness . mon .  not .",
    "r.  astron .",
    "433 , 3115 - 3132 .",
    "yang , b. , keane , j. , meech , k.  j. , owen , t. , wainscoat , r.  j. 2014 .",
    "multi - wavelength observations of comet c/2011 l4 ( panstarrs ) .",
    "astrophys .",
    "j. 784 , l23 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze a set of 760475 observations of 333026 unique main - belt objects obtained by the pan - starrs1 ( ps1 ) survey telescope between 2012 may 20 and 2013 november 9 , a period during which ps1 discovered two main - belt comets , p/2012 t1 ( panstarrs ) and p/2013 r3 ( catalina - panstarrs ) . </S>",
    "<S> ps1 comet detection procedures currently consist of the comparison of the point spread functions ( psfs ) of moving objects to those of reference stars , and the flagging of objects that show anomalously large radial psf widths for human evaluation and possible observational follow - up . based on the number of missed discovery opportunities among comets discovered by other observers </S>",
    "<S> , we estimate an upper limit comet discovery efficiency rate of @xmath0% for ps1 . </S>",
    "<S> additional analyses that could improve comet discovery yields in future surveys include linear psf analysis , modeling of trailed stellar psfs for comparison to trailed moving object psfs , searches for azimuthally localized activity , comparison of point - source - optimized photometry to extended - source - optimized photometry , searches for photometric excesses in objects with known absolute magnitudes , and crowd - sourcing . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of the discovery statistics of the ps1 survey indicates an expected fraction of 59 mbcs per @xmath1 outer main - belt asteroids ( corresponding to a total expected population of @xmath2 mbcs among the outer main - belt asteroid population with absolute magnitudes of @xmath3 ) , and a 95% confidence upper limit of 96 mbcs per @xmath1 outer main - belt asteroids ( corresponding to a total of @xmath4230 mbcs ) , assuming a detection efficiency of 50% . </S>",
    "<S> we note however that significantly more sensitive future surveys ( particularly those utilizing larger aperture telescopes ) could detect many more mbcs than estimated here . </S>",
    "<S> examination of the orbital element distribution of all known mbcs reveals an excess of high eccentricities ( @xmath5 ) relative to the background asteroid population . </S>",
    "<S> theoretical calculations show that , given these eccentricities , the sublimation rate for a typical mbc is orders of magnitude larger at perihelion than at aphelion , providing a plausible physical explanation for the observed behavior of mbcs peaking in observed activity strength near perihelion . </S>",
    "<S> these results indicate that the overall rate of mantle growth should be slow , consistent with observational evidence that mbc activity can be sustained over multiple orbit passages . </S>",
    "<S> [ accepted for publication in icarus , 2014 oct 19 ]    asteroids ; comets ; astrobiology ; asteroids , composition ; comets , origin </S>"
  ]
}