{
  "article_text": [
    "the origin of globular clusters ( gcs ) remains an open question .",
    "the initial conditions present during and after the gas - embedded phase are poorly constrained .",
    "for instance , were gcs formed during the monolithic collapse of a single massive giant molecular cloud , or are they the merged remnants of many lower mass sub - clumps and/or filamentary structures ?",
    "recent evidence suggests that globular clusters underwent prolonged star formation early on in their lifetimes ( see @xcite for a recent review ) .",
    "that is , gas could have been present in significant quantities for the first @xmath10 years , albeit perhaps intermittently @xcite .",
    "this evidence comes in the form of multiple stellar populations identified in the colour - magnitude diagram ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as curious abundance anomalies that can not be explained by a single burst of star formation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". on the other hand , a prolonged gas - embedded phase seems to conflict with the recent findings of @xcite , who report a lack of gas and dust in young massive clusters in the lmc and smc , thought to be ( possible ) analogs of primordial galactic gcs .",
    "in general , the presence of multiple populations in galactic gcs is indicative of a complex formation history .",
    "for example , massive clusters could re - accrete gas after an initial burst of star formation , allowing for a new generation of stars to form @xcite , or they might capture stars from the field in significant numbers if they are still forming in their natal molecular cloud @xcite .    in paper i of this series @xcite , we constrained the origin of the observed dependences of the present - day mass function ( mf ) slope and concentration parameter on the total cluster mass . by focusing on the role of dynamics in modifying these parameters over @xmath11 gyr of evolution",
    ", we showed that the present - day global stellar mf variations are consistent with an universal initial mf modified by two - body relaxation and galactic tides , but some initial correlation between the concentration parameter and the total cluster mass is needed to reproduce the present - day observed relations ( a similar result was shown by @xcite to explain the present - day relation between total cluster mass and concentration , but invoking primordial gas expulsion ) .",
    "we further showed that the present - day distributions of core binary fractions can be reproduced from an universal initial binary fraction of 10% , assuming an orbital period distribution that is flat in the logarithm of the semi - major axis combined with an appropriate choice of the initial cluster mass - radius relation .",
    "importantly , however , this did not preclude other combinations of the initial binary fraction and orbital parameter distributions ( i.e. the semi - major axis , mass ratio and eccentricity distributions ) .",
    "among the many uncertainties pertaining to the origins of gcs are the properties of their primordial binary populations .",
    "much more is known about the _ present - day _ binaries in these clusters , identified as photometric binaries above the main - sequence in the colour - magnitude diagram ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or at higher energies as exotic objects like low - mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , millisecond pulsars ( msps ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "blue straggler ( bs ) formation as well is thought to involve binary stars , whether it be due to mass - transfer within a binary , collisions during encounters involving binaries or even some triple - based mechanism ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) such as kozai - induced mergers ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "despite the importance of these populations for understanding a number of astrophysical processes , little is known about their progenitor populations and the conditions from which they evolved .",
    "the principal physical mechanisms driving the time evolution of the binary orbital parameter distributions in dense star clusters are two - body relaxation and direct encounters involving binaries .",
    "two - body relaxation drives mass segregation in clusters , causing binaries to drift in toward the cluster centre .",
    "this is due to the larger masses of binaries relative to single stars .",
    "that is , the tendency for clusters to evolve toward , on average , a state of energy equipartition ( or , more accurately , energy equilibrium , although technically this idealized state is never fully reached in real clusters ) results in a reduction in the speeds of the more massive binaries .",
    "thus , two - body relaxation causes the inward radial migration of binaries in clusters , with the most massive binaries having the shortest mass segregation timescales @xcite .",
    "hence , this process does not directly impact the ( global ) binary orbital parameter distributions . indirectly , however , mass segregation delivers binaries to the central cluster regions where the density is highest , and encounters typically occur on shorter timescales .",
    "binary encounters have a more direct effect on the binary orbital parameter distributions via exchanges , ionizations , hardening , softening , etc .",
    "( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for example , exchanges involve an interloping single star ( or binary ) that undergoes a resonant gravitational interaction with the components of a binary and , in the end , can cause one of the original binary members to be ejected @xcite . to summarize , mass segregation delivers binaries to the core , where they are dynamically processed due to binary encounters ( ignoring the possible binary burning phase in the evolution of young and dense clusters when binaries are destroyed on a crossing time @xcite ) .",
    "the time evolution of the binary semi - major axis distribution in dense clusters can be reasonably well summarized using one simple rule , called the hills - heggie law @xcite .",
    "this relies on the concept of a `` hard - soft '' boundary , or the semi - major axis a@xmath12 for which the binary orbital energy is equal to the average single star kinetic energy . that is : @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the average single star mass and @xmath15 is the root - mean - square ( rms ) velocity . here ,",
    "an average binary is defined such that both components have masses equal to the average single star mass , and @xmath15 is calculated using equation 4 - 80b of @xcite ( hence it corresponds to the rms velocity at the half - light radius ) . binaries with ( absolute ) orbital energies greater than that corresponding to the hard - soft boundary are called `` hard '' , and typically experience a reduction in their semi - major axes upon undergoing encounters with single stars .",
    "`` soft '' binaries , on the other hand , have orbital energies less than the average single star kinetic energy , and become even softer post - encounter as their semi - major axes typically increase .",
    "the softest binaries are easily ionized during encounters with single stars .",
    "thus , the net effect of binary encounters is that hard binaries become harder , and soft binaries become softer .",
    "can actually be soft during a particularly energetic encounter . or",
    ", binaries classified as soft by equation  [ eqn : hard - soft ] can be hard if the component masses are larger than the average stellar mass .",
    "] this is the hills - heggie law .",
    "recently , @xcite performed a photometric study of the main - sequence binary populations in a sample of 59 gcs .",
    "the authors confirmed a previously reported @xcite anti - correlation between the binary fraction and the total cluster mass .",
    "@xcite previously showed that this trend can arise naturally assuming an universal initial binary fraction . in this scenario",
    ", the anti - correlation appears due to the disruption of soft binaries in the cluster core , combined with the evaporation of single stars from the cluster outskirts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the efficiency of the former process should increase with increasing cluster mass and density @xcite , whereas the efficiency of the latter process is driven by two - body relaxation and should increase with decreasing cluster mass and density ( i.e. t@xmath16 m@xmath17r@xmath18 ) .",
    "this contributes to high binary fractions in low - mass cluster cores , and low binary fractions in high - mass cores .",
    "even more recently , @xcite showed using @xmath19-body simulations that the radial dependence of the binary frequency is quite sensitive to the dynamical age of a cluster .",
    "dynamics initially destroys soft binaries in the core , giving rise to a binary frequency that rises toward the cluster outskirts . after approximately one half - mass relaxation time in clusters with an initial mass 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath20 m@xmath2 , a bimodal radial binary frequency develops since binaries just outside the core have now drifted in due to mass segregation .",
    "the minimum in binary frequency extends radially outward as time goes on , finally giving way to a binary fraction that decreases with increasing clustercentric distance all the way to the tidal radius after @xmath21 ( initial ) half - mass relaxation times .",
    "such a minimum in the binary fraction is clearly visible in ngc 5272 ( m3 ) , with a 6 gyr half - mass relaxation time , around the half - mass radius @xcite .",
    "the ( incomplete ) data of the comparable cluster ngc 5024 is suggestive of a similar minimum , and a binary fraction minimum at 1 - 2 half - mass radii is visible in the clusters ngc 6584 and 6934 , which have relaxation times of 1 gyr .",
    "an analogous bimodality has been observed in bs populations , and it is likely that mass segregation is again responsible for this ( possibly transient ; hypki , a. , 2014 , phd thesis ) feature @xcite . in this paper , the second of the series , we delve further into the issue of the initial binary properties in globular clusters . in particular , we explore whether or not the observed present - day distribution of galactic gc binary fractions can be reproduced assuming an universal initial binary fraction of 95% combined with the binary orbital parameter distributions taken from @xcite ( i.e. with a significant fraction of soft binaries ) , which are deduced from present - day star - forming regions in the milky way disk and its field population .",
    "we also explore different initial mass - density relations , but all of these correspond to relatively high initial densities ( @xmath4 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) .",
    "to do this , we generate a series of simulations for gc evolution performed using the mocca code @xcite , and compare the results to the presently observed binary fractions of @xcite .",
    "importantly , there may never be an instant in time when the initial binary distribution functions are fully established . in a dense star - forming environment , binaries form but can be dissociated into individual stars before other binaries form .",
    "the binary population is constantly changing due to break - ups and mergers .",
    "however , mathematically convenient initial binary distribution functions can be deduced from young stellar populations .",
    "crucially , the prior dynamical processing of the normalizing population must be properly accounted for .",
    "this was first done by @xcite using constraints given by old populations .",
    "the resulting mathematical formalism can be viewed as that which an ideal population would populate if it could .",
    "for example , in an extreme star - burst that forms a very dense massive cluster , wide binaries can not really form . in this case",
    ", a binary fraction of 100% seems unphysical .",
    "but , we can model this using our derived mathematical description of primordial binary populations , since they become naturally truncated by the dynamical configuration of the cluster .",
    "thus , the same initial binary distribution functions can be adopted , subject to the local cluster conditions . these are taken care of naturally in any @xmath19-body or monte carlo model for gc evolution , leading to some slight cooling of the initial cluster configuration due to the disruption of wide binaries , although this typically represents at most a small fraction of the total energy budget of the cluster @xcite .    in section  [ models ] , we present our monte carlo models for gc evolution performed using mocca , along with our chosen initial conditions . in section  [ results ] , we present our results and compare them to the observations . we further describe our method , adapted from @xcite , for extrapolating from only a handful of models convenient equations for the predicted present - day distributions of orbital energies for a range of present - day total cluster masses ( spanning three orders of magnitude ) .",
    "this allows us to efficiently study and compare the evolution of our model binary populations in energy - space , as a function of different initial cluster densities . finally , in section  [ discussion ]",
    ", we discuss the implications of our results for primordial binaries in milky way gcs .",
    "in this section , we describe the monte carlo code called mocca used to simulate the cluster evolution , and describe our choice of initial conditions .",
    "mocca is ideal for studies of globular cluster evolution spanning a range of initial conditions , given its fast and robust coverage of the relevant parameter space ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we use the mocca code to produce all of our simulated clusters .",
    "it combines the monte carlo technique for cluster evolution @xcite with the fewbody code @xcite to perform numerical scattering experiments of small - number gravitational interactions .",
    "the code relies on analytic formulae for stellar evolution taken from @xcite , and performs binary evolution calculations using the bse code @xcite .",
    "the mocca simulations are performed on a psk2 cluster at the nicolaus copernicus astronomical centre in poland .",
    "each simulation is run on one cpu , and the cluster is based on amd opteron processors with 64-bit architecture ( 2 - 2.4 ghz ) . for further information about the mocca code , see @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .      for every choice of galactocentric radius and initial cluster structure , we run models having a total cluster mass of 10@xmath0 , 5 @xmath22 10@xmath0 , 10@xmath20 , 5 @xmath22 10@xmath20 and 8 @xmath22 10@xmath20 m@xmath2 initially .",
    "all models begin with a global initial binary fraction f@xmath23 95% , and we do not assume any primordial binary ( or stellar ) mass segregation in our models .",
    "the initial binary orbital parameter distributions are taken from equation 46 of @xcite .",
    "therefore , initial eccentricities follow a thermal distribution f@xmath24(e ) @xmath25 2e .",
    "the initial binary mass function is derived from random pairing in the mass range 0.08 to 5 m@xmath2 , and favouring mass ratios near unity above 5 m@xmath2 .",
    "the initial period distribution function is : @xmath26 where @xmath27 2.5 , @xmath28 45 and @xmath29p@xmath30 1 .",
    "the normalization @xmath31f@xmath32d(@xmath29p ) @xmath25 1 ( where the lower and upper limits of integration are , respectively , @xmath29p@xmath33 and @xmath29p@xmath34 , with @xmath29p@xmath35 8.43 and p is in days ) is imposed for a binary fraction of unity .",
    "the assumption of high binary fractions near unity maximizes the statistical significance of our analysis of the evolution of the binary populations in energy - space .",
    "additionally , previous work @xcite showed that such a high binary fraction is needed to obtain the required agreement with the observed binary fractions in young galactic open clusters , when combined with our choice of orbital parameter distributions @xcite and high initial densities ( see below ) .",
    "we run models at galactocentric radii r@xmath36 of 4 kpc , 8 kpc and 10 kpc , all with circular orbits in the galactic potential .",
    "to model the galactic potential , mocca assumes a point - mass with total mass equal to the enclosed galaxy mass at r@xmath36 . as described in @xcite , the criterion used to define the escape rate of stars and binaries from the cluster",
    "is taken from @xcite , and accounts for the possibility that objects with energies greater than the local escape energy can be scattered back into the cluster to become re - bound @xcite .",
    "all models are evolved for 12 gyr .",
    "m@xmath2 do not survive the full 12 gyr , dissolving after @xmath37 gyr of cluster evolution . ]",
    "we adopt an initial mass function ( imf ) taken from @xcite in the mass range 0.08 - 100 m@xmath2 .",
    "that is , we assume a mass function of the form @xmath38(m ) @xmath39 m@xmath40 , with @xmath41 2.7 for stars with masses m @xmath42 1 m@xmath2 , @xmath41 2.2 for stars with masses in the range 0.5 @xmath43 m / m@xmath2 @xmath44 1 , and @xmath41 1.3 for stars with masses in the range 0.08 @xmath43 m / m@xmath2 @xmath44 0.5 .",
    "we also check that our results are roughly% ) than we find adopting a three - segmented imf . ] insensitive to our choice of imf by re - running all models with a two - segmented kroupa imf taken from @xcite .",
    "we assume a metallicity of @xmath45 for all models .",
    "initial conditions for all models are summarized in table  [ table : initial - mc ] .",
    "for all models , we adopt a king density profile with initial concentration w@xmath46 .",
    "all models are either initially tidally filling or under - filling .",
    "the degree of under - filling is set by the parameter f@xmath47 r@xmath48/r@xmath49 , where r@xmath48 and r@xmath49 are the tidal and half - mass radii , respectively . for tidally - filling models ,",
    "the parameter f@xmath50 is defined by the initial concentration w@xmath51 .",
    "we consider mass - radius relations of the form r@xmath49 @xmath25 @xmath52m@xmath8 for some constants @xmath52 and @xmath53 .",
    "for the initially tidally - filling models , we adopt @xmath54 , corresponding to a constant initial density for every set of models with the same initial conditions ( but different initial total cluster masses ) .",
    "f@xmath55r@xmath56 if @xmath54 , where r@xmath36 is the galactocentric distance . ] for the initially tidally - underfilling models , we adopt a slightly smaller value @xmath57 , corresponding to initial densities that increase slightly ( i.e. less than a factor of two ) with increasing initial cluster mass . for the tidally - filling and tidally - underfilling models , the corresponding initial densities range from @xmath58 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 and @xmath4 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 , respectively , inside the half - mass radius .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]             one of the key features characteristic of figures  [ fig : fig4 ] and  [ fig : fig5 ] is that _ the fraction of hard binaries increases with decreasing total cluster mass , _ and this effect becomes increasingly significant the more dynamical processing a binary population undergoes .",
    "this is illustrated in figure  [ fig : fig4 ] through our normalization method , since we see a clear trend for orbital energy bins with @xmath59 ( e@xmath60/e@xmath61 ) @xmath62 0 ( i.e. hard binaries ) to become increasingly populated as more dynamical processing occurs .",
    "similarly , a higher initial density results in a larger range of slopes and y - intercepts for our lines of best - fit over the six bins in orbital energy shown in figure  [ fig : fig5 ] .",
    "this is evident from table  [ table : lines ] upon comparing the range of slopes and y - intercepts for the tidally - filling ( 1.61 to 0.77 and -4.73 to -0.03 for the slopes and y - intercepts , respectively ) and tidally - underfilling ( 2.39 to 0.19 and -9.20 to 2.67 ) models .",
    "this larger range of slopes and y - intercepts seen in initially denser clusters ( i.e. the tidally - underfilling models ) is due to a corresponding increase in the degree of dynamical processing , which in turn contributes to the fraction of hard binaries at 12 gyr increasing more steeply with decreasing total cluster mass .",
    "this is the direct result of our assumed initial mass - density relation . specifically , we assume a mass - density relation corresponding to a constant initial density for every set of models ( i.e. with the same initial conditions ) .",
    "it follows from this that the encounter rate scales as @xmath63 m@xmath64 . including the dependence of the encounter rate on the binary fraction only steepens the inverse mass - dependence further , since @xmath65 @xmath39 f@xmath66 and the binary fraction is anti - correlated with the total cluster mass @xcite .",
    "thus , the rate of dynamical processing is fastest in the least massive clusters for every set of models sharing the same initial conditions .",
    "consequently , the rate of soft binary disruption is also the highest in the lowest mass clusters , causing the fraction of hard binaries to increase with decreasing cluster mass .",
    "said another way , for a given orbital energy bin , the mean separation is larger in less massive clusters , which contributes to a shorter binary encounter time .",
    "this is because our normalization relies on dividing by the orbital energy corresponding to the hard - soft boundary , which is at larger orbital energies ( i.e. less negative ) in less massive clusters .",
    "this effect is the most significant in the initially tidally - underfilling models , since they have the highest initial densities and hence the highest encounter rates . to summarize , without the need to do additional simulations to increase our range of simulated cluster masses , we now know the number of binaries in each orbital energy bin for any cluster that shares the same initial conditions ( but a different initial total cluster mass ) of either our tidally - filling or tidally - underfilling models . in the future , for a given set of initial conditions , one needs only simulate clusters over a small range in initial mass to extrapolate the results over the entire initial mass range . finding the extrapolation of the initial conditions that best intersect with actual galactic gcs in the n@xmath67-n@xmath68 phase space will help to constrain the true initial cluster conditions , as discussed in section  [ initial ] .",
    "in this section , we discuss the implications of our results for the properties of primordial binaries in galactic globular clusters , within the framework of the universality hypothesis .",
    "our results illustrate that the observed present - day binary fractions in galactic gcs can , to first - order , be reasonably well reproduced assuming universal initial binary properties , specifically a binary fraction near unity , binary orbital parameter distributions resembling those of @xcite and an initial mass - radius relation with high initial densities ( 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) . in @xcite , we demonstrated a similar consistency between the observations and the binary universality hypothesis , but adopting a binary fraction of 10% and an orbital period distribution flat in the logarithm of the binary semi - major axis , while exploring a wide range of initial cluster densities ( 10@xmath5 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) .",
    "importantly , this was for the _ central _ binary fractions .",
    "thus , as far as the binary _ fractions _ inside r@xmath49 are concerned , the problem of whether or not the primordial binary properties in gcs were universal is degenerate  that is , to first - order , the present - day observations can be reproduced within the universality hypothesis adopting different combinations of the initial binary fraction , binary orbital parameter distributions and mass - radius relations .",
    "this was also indirectly demonstrated in @xcite using @xmath19-body models , who showed from a suite of simulations of up to 10@xmath20 stars that the overall binary fraction remains close to its primordial value ( starting with binary fractions on the order of 5% ) , but increases markedly in the cluster core .",
    "importantly , however , these authors included ( mainly ) hard binaries only .",
    "thus , in these models , binary destruction in the core is outweighed by mass segregation delivering binaries to the core at a faster rate ( combined with binary creation during dynamical interactions ) .",
    "so how then can we distinguish between degenerate sets of initial conditions ?",
    "as is illustrated in figure  [ fig : fig1 ] , _ the dependence of the present - day binary fraction f@xmath69 outside the half - mass radius r@xmath49 on the total cluster mass can break degeneracies that arise using the binary fractions inside r@xmath49 alone . _ specifically , assuming an universal initial binary fraction outside r@xmath49 along with universal initial orbital parameter distributions , initially tidally - underfilling clusters with high initial densities on the order of @xmath4 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 are needed to reproduce the observed anti - correlation between the total cluster masses and the binary fractions in the cluster outskirts .",
    "indeed , lower initial densities yield a _ correlation _ between f@xmath69 and m@xmath70 , as illustrated in figure  [ fig : fig1 ] by the initially tidally - filling models .",
    "this is in general consistent with the results of @xcite and @xcite , since the mass segregation process operates faster in less massive clusters . in other words ,",
    "if the overall global binary fraction remains the same while the binary fraction inside r@xmath49 increases then the binary fraction outside r@xmath49 must decrease ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and this process operates the fastest in clusters with the shortest half - mass relaxation times .",
    "this leads to a _ correlation _ between the cluster dynamical age ( for which we use the total cluster mass as a proxy in this paper ) and the binary fraction outside r@xmath49 .",
    "our results are also indicative of an initial mass - radius relation that is less steep than we have adopted here . that is , instead of assuming a constant initial density",
    ", the agreement between our models and the observations would improve if we assumed a mean initial density that increases with increasing cluster mass .",
    "this is required to obtain a better agreement between our models and the observations for every individual set of models with the same initial conditions but different initial total cluster masses .",
    "as seen in figure  [ fig : fig2 ] , the observed dependence of the number of binaries on the total cluster mass is more sub - linear than we obtain in any of our models . adopting instead an initial - mass radius relation that corresponds to even higher densities in more massive clusters than in our tidally - underfilling models would correct this discrepancy . thus , assuming an initial mass - radius relation of the form r@xmath49 @xmath25 @xmath52m@xmath8 , our results suggest @xmath9 1/3 .",
    "this is similar to equation 7 in @xcite , who find @xmath71 0.13 @xmath72 0.04 . to summarize , assuming global initial binary fractions near unity and the initial binary orbital parameter distributions of @xcite ( i.e. most binaries are initially soft ) , our results are the most consistent with high initial cluster densities of the order 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 .",
    "we require the highest initial densities ( @xmath4 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) to reproduce the observed binary fractions in the most massive galactic gcs in our sample , and a range at slightly lower initial densities ( @xmath4 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath20 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) to match the observations in the lowest mass gcs in our sample .",
    "this suggests an initial mass - density relation corresponding to higher initial densities in more massive clusters ( see above ) .",
    "these initial conditions are able to reproduce the observed present - day distribution of binary fractions _ both inside and outside the half - mass radius_. conversely , adopting initial binary fractions near @xmath4 10% with a dominant hard binary component combined with comparably high initial densities can reproduce the observed binary fractions _ inside r@xmath49 only_.",
    "we emphasize that our results do not necessarily exclude other possible combinations of the initial cluster conditions that might also reproduce the observed data for the galactic gc population within the framework of the universality hypothesis , nor have we ruled out non - universal initial conditions .",
    "for example , our results suggest that the observed binary fractions outside the half - mass radius might be reproducable assuming an universal ( global ) initial binary fraction of 10% with a dominant hard binary component _ if _ primordial binary mass segregation is also included in some clusters . with that said ,",
    "we emphasize that our results , in particular initial cluster densities in the range 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 are observed in many massive young star - forming regions , including the onc , dr21 , m17 , rcw36 , rcw38 , ngc1893 , etc .",
    "( see , for example , kuhn et al .",
    "2014 ) .      in this section ,",
    "we discuss the evolution of the initial binary populations in energy - space as a function of the initial cluster density , both for the initially tidally - filling and tidally - underfilling cases .",
    "as we have shown , in those cases where the binary fractions alone are not sufficient to fully remove all degeneracies in the initial conditions ( for example , as we have shown , this can be the case inside the half - mass radius ) , this can be done by also comparing the relative fractions of hard and soft binaries at 12 gyr .",
    "first , at 12 gyr , the fraction of hard binaries has increased relative to the initial fraction in all models , as seen in figure  [ fig : fig5 ] .",
    "this is the case for both the tidally - filling and tidally - underfilling models , but the effect is more significant for the latter .",
    "this is because a higher initial density translates into a larger degree of dynamical processing and hence a larger present - day fraction of hard binaries .",
    "thus , the fraction of hard binaries offers one probe of the initial cluster density .",
    "indeed , as already illustrated via our results for the binary fractions , the fraction of hard binaries in the cluster outskirts ( i.e. beyond the half - mass radius ) can offer an even more sensitive probe of the initial cluster density .",
    "second , the fraction of hard binaries increases with increasing cluster mass at 12 gyr , for every set of models sharing the same initial conditions ( but different total cluster masses ) .",
    "this is the case for both the tidally - filling and tidally - underfilling models , however the effect is once again more significant for the latter .",
    "this is the direct result of our assumed initial mass - density relation .",
    "therefore , the dependence of the hard and soft binary fractions on the present - day total cluster mass ( and density ) can help to constrain the initial cluster mass - density relation .",
    "it follows from our example application that our extrapolation technique can be used to not only efficiently sample the relevant parameter space of initial conditions , but also to help break any degeneracies ( within the universality hypothesis ) between the presently observed binary properties and the initial cluster conditions .",
    "for example , consider a particular galactic gc with measured values for both f@xmath73 and f@xmath69 .",
    "we evolve to 12 gyr different sets of models having the same initial binary fraction , orbital parameter distributions and mass - density relation ( for example , an universal initial binary fraction of 50% , an initial density of 10@xmath6 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 and some suitable combination of binary orbital parameter distributions ) , but different initial total cluster masses .",
    "we are not concerned with reproducing the exact present - day total cluster mass in our models at 12 gyr , but instead generate a range of total cluster masses at 12 gyr for every set of initial conditions , and then use our extrapolation technique to calculate the distributions of orbital energies at 12 gyr for the precise total mass corresponding to our cluster of interest .",
    "if more than one set of models yields binary fractions that are consistent with the observed binary fractions _ both _ inside and outside the half - mass radius , this degeneracy can be broken using the relative fractions of hard and soft binaries .",
    "that is , the relative fractions of hard and soft binaries , which probe the degree of dynamical processing , should differ .",
    "this is quantified by our extrapolation technique .",
    "thus , observational constraints for the relative fractions of hard and soft binaries , if available , can be used to further constrain the initial cluster conditions in those situations where the present - day binary fractions alone can not fully do the job .",
    "depending on the quality of the data and the degree of degeneracy among the initial conditions , more ( or less ) binning may be needed to reliably isolate the set of initial conditions that best match the observed data .",
    "we note as well that , for a more direct comparison to observed data , our method can just as easily be applied directly to the underlying period , mass ratio and eccentricity distributions instead of the orbital energy distributions .",
    "it can also be applied to different spatial subsets of the cluster or different radial bins ( e.g. inside and outside the half - mass radius ) .",
    "interestingly , in the initially tidally - underfilling case , the fit is poor for our highest bin in orbital energy ( i.e. bin 8 , which is not shown in figure  [ fig : fig5 ] or table  [ table : lines ] since the simple least - squares fits performed for the other orbital energy bins is not appropriate here ) .",
    "this seems to be connected to the earliest stages of cluster evolution , before the clusters have had a chance to expand to fill their tidal radii , since the clusters are initially binary - dominated such that most soft binaries are destroyed during the first few crossing times of the cluster lifetime @xcite .",
    "the models are initially in virial equilibrium , so that they begin to expand on a two - body relaxation timescale ( ignoring expansion due to stellar evolution - driven mass loss ) .",
    "it is the most massive clusters that take the longest to expand to fill their tidal radii , since the timescale for two - body relaxation increases with cluster mass .",
    "thus , we postulate that our models deviate from an universal mass - radius relation during the brief period after t @xmath25 0 but before all clusters fill their tidal radii .",
    "that is , clusters that are not yet tidally - filling retain their binaries in the outskirts so that they continue to be affected by dynamical interactions , whereas tidally - filling clusters lose stars and binaries from their outskirts to the tidal field of the galaxy .",
    "it is this brief high - density state that results in the poor fit seen in the lower panel of figure  [ fig : fig5 ] for the tidally - underfilling models , since more of the softest binaries are disrupted in the most massive clusters relative to what is seen in figure  [ fig : fig5 ] for the initially tidally - filling models .",
    "this initial phase of differential expansion is avoided altogether in the initially tidally - filling models .",
    "we conclude from this that very soft binaries potentially offer the most sensitive probe of the initial cluster conditions .",
    "importantly , _ this phase of differential expansion seen in the tidally - underfilling models contributes to the anti - correlation we see between the binary fractions outside r@xmath49 and the total cluster mass .",
    "_ in the initially tidally - filling models , we find a correlation between f@xmath69 and m@xmath70 , which is consistent with the results of @xcite and @xcite , but inconsistent with the observations @xcite .",
    "we emphasize that , while the observed binary fractions for most of the clusters in our sample can be well - reproduced assuming universal initial binary properties , not every cluster fits the mold of binary universality , at least at first glance .",
    "in particular , figure  [ fig : fig3 ] suggests that some clusters may be born with initial binary mass segregation , namely ngc 5466 , ngc 5927 , ngc 6218 and ngc 7089 .",
    "this is needed to reproduce the high ratios observed between the binary fractions inside and outside the half - mass radius .",
    "ngc 5466 has the lowest mean density inside r@xmath49 of all the clusters in our sample , and the difference is greater than an order of magnitude ( @xmath4 20 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 compared to several 100 - 1000 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) .",
    "this is likely due mainly to the relatively large galactocentric distance of this cluster ( 16.3 kpc ) , which has allowed it to expand considerably over its lifetime ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , it does not help to explain the large ratio f@xmath73/f@xmath69  unless , perhaps , single stars expand more in the galactic potential than do binaries , contributing to the appearance of primordial binary mass segregation .",
    "ngc 5927 and ngc 6218 have observed galactocentric distances of 4.6 kpc and 4.5 kpc , respectively . at such small distances from the galactic centre ,",
    "mass - loss due to tidal effects from the galaxy begin to play a very important role .",
    "based on a comparison between the results of mocca and nbody6 at a galactocentric radius of 4 kpc , mocca appears to be under - estimating the rate of mass - loss across the tidal boundary ( madrid , hurley & leigh 2014 , in preparation ) .",
    "tides are known to most dramatically affect the cluster outskirts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and , if single stars escape at a greater rate than do binaries , this could contribute to lowering the binary fraction outside r@xmath49 relative to the value inside r@xmath49 . more work is needed to properly treat the galactic potential at small galactocentric distances , both in mocca and in @xmath19-body models , and hence to address this interesting question .",
    "another option is that these clusters were born with significant substructure , or in lower mass clusters that eventually merged . in this scenario ,",
    "the lower initial cluster masses of the sub - clumps translate into shorter two - body relaxation times , and hence shorter mass segregation times for binaries relative to single stars .",
    "this could explain the significant concentration of binaries within r@xmath49 in these clusters , relative to what we would expect beginning with a single monolothic collapse scenario .    with that said ,",
    "when the uncertainties on the observed binary fractions are taken into account @xcite , the number of galactic gcs with binary fractions we are unable to reproduce with our models is very small ( with ngc 5927 being the only outlier ) .",
    "it is worth considering whether or not non - members may be contaminating the determination of the binary fractions in these few clusters .",
    "alternatively , multiple stellar populations could be confusing the determination of the binary fractions inside and outside r@xmath49 , especially if one of these populations has a higher binary fraction or is more centrally concentrated .      in this section",
    ", we briefly highlight several key issues inherent to the monte carlo method for simulating globular cluster evolution .",
    "although we do not expect any of these issues to have significantly affected our results , we list them here for completeness .    for our purposes ,",
    "the most significant issue is mocca s treatment of the galactic tidal field , which is relevant to the rate of escape of single and binary stars across the tidal boundary , and hence the binary fraction in the cluster outskirts .",
    "specifically , mocca approximates the galaxy as a point mass .",
    "this means that the rate of stellar evaporation across the tidal boundary is not strictly correct .",
    "regardless , based on previous studies that compared the rate of stellar evaporation in mocca to that in @xmath19-body simulations , which incorporate a more realistic treatment of the galactic tidal field ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , this did not significantly affect our results .",
    "additionally , mocca can not handle time - dependent tidal fields , as is the case for gcs on eccentric orbits ( although sollima & mastrobuono battisti 2014 recently proposed a method to address this issue within the monte carlo approach ) .",
    "thus , our results are based on simulations of gcs placed on purely circular orbits , since mocca _ can _ treat a static tidal field with comparable accuracy to currently available @xmath19-body codes @xcite .",
    "there are two primary sources of stochasticity in the mc method .",
    "the first relates to the determination of the position of an object along a given orbit . at each time - step",
    ", the position is determined according to the probability of finding an object in a particular location along its orbit .",
    "at each subsequent time - step , a new position is determined , and this can differ substantially from the previous position .",
    "this leads to stochastic changes in the gravitational potential between time - steps .",
    "the second source of stochasticity pertains to the outcomes of dynamical encounters involving binaries .",
    "the initial conditions going into the dynamical encounters ( whose outcomes are calculated using the fewbody code ) are also mildly stochastic , due to the aforementioned stochastic changes to the positions of objects between time - steps .",
    "this translates into some stochasticity in the outcomes of the interactions , since these depend sensitively on the initial interaction conditions .",
    "we do not expect either of these sources of stochasticity to have significantly affected our results .",
    "we tested this by re - running the models with the same initial conditions , but using different random seed values for the random number generators .",
    "our results always yield the same final cluster parameters ( half - mass radius , density , mass , etc . ) to within typically a few percent .",
    "the only exception to this is the core radius , which fluctuates significantly ( by as much as a factor of a few ) from time - step to time - step .",
    "importantly , however , this is the case not only for the monte carlo approach , but also for @xmath19-body models for star cluster evolution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    ".    other limitations of the monte carlo method include deviations from spherical symmetry including rotation ( however vasiliev recently proposed a method to circumvent this issue using the monte carlo method ; private communication ) , sudden changes in the gravitational potential ( e.g. violent relaxation or sudden gas removal ) and hierarchical multiples ( e.g. encounters involving triple stars , quadruples , etc . ) .",
    "most of these issues are currently being investigated , and should be included in the mocca code in the near future .",
    "the monte carlo method also requires that the local time - step is always a fraction of the local relaxation time , which must always be longer than the local dynamical time of the system .",
    "this condition is always satisfied in our models , particularly during the first few myr of cluster evolution when most ( soft ) primordial binaries are disrupted due to dynamical encounters .",
    "in this paper , we consider the origins of the binary properties observed in galactic globular clusters . to this end",
    ", we present the results of a suite of monte carlo models for gc evolution performed using the mocca code @xcite , which we compare to the observed present - day binary fractions of @xcite .    in paper",
    "i , we showed that the observed distribution of present - day _ central _ binary fractions can be reproduced assuming an universal initial binary fraction of 10% , a period distribution flat in the logarithm of the binary orbital semi - major axis and moderate initial densities close to the present - day values observed in galactic gcs ( @xmath4 10@xmath5 - 10@xmath6 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) . in this paper , we consider instead an universal initial binary fraction near unity , the binary orbital parameter distributions of @xcite ( i.e. with a significant soft binary component ) and high initial densities ( 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) .",
    "our results suggest that , to first - order , the present - day binary fractions inside the half - mass radius are degenerate .",
    "that is , they can be reproduced assuming either initially low binary fractions with a dominant hard component and moderate densities , or initially high binary fractions with a dominant soft component and high densities .",
    "we show that the observed present - day binary fractions _ outside _ the half - mass radius can break this degeneracy . in this",
    "regard , our results are the most consistent with high initial binary fractions and high initial densities , since these conditions are needed to reproduce the observed anti - correlation between the total cluster mass and the observed binary fractions outside r@xmath49 . to reproduce the slope of this anti - correlation , our results favour an initial mass - density relation r@xmath49 @xmath39 m@xmath8 with @xmath74 .",
    "this corresponds to initially more massive clusters having higher initial densities , in rough agreement with the results of paper i of this series @xcite .",
    "additionally , the observed present - day mean densities inside r@xmath49 are typically in the range @xmath4 10@xmath5 - 10@xmath0 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 for galactic gcs @xcite , which agree better with our initially tidally - underfilling models .",
    "thus , we require high initial densities ( @xmath4 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 ) with initially tidally - underfilling clusters to reproduce the _ observed _ anti - correlation between binary fraction and cluster mass outside r@xmath49 , in conjunction with present - day densities that agree with the observed range in galactic gcs .",
    "importantly , such high densities have actually been observed in young massive star - forming regions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we further apply the extrapolation technique first introduced in @xcite to the initial and final binary orbital energy distributions , in order to quantify the degree of dynamical processing as a function of the assumed initial conditions .",
    "we illustrate that our method can be used to constrain both the initial cluster density as well as the initial mass - density relation , if / when more sophisticated observations become available for the underlying present - day binary orbital parameter distributions in gcs .",
    "we have only applied our technique using two different initial mass - density relations ( i.e. the tidally - filling and tidally - underfilling sets of models ) and a single universal set of binary fractions and orbital parameter distributions , using these as a `` proof - of - concept '' for our method and to highlight some of the effects of the assumed initial cluster density . in principle , however , our method can be applied to _ any _ choice of initial mass - density relation combined with _ any _ choice of initial binary fractions and orbital parameter distributions ( assuming they are either universal or show a clear and direct dependence on the initial mass - density relation ) .",
    "this offers the potential for future studies to generate an extensive set of simulated old ( @xmath4 12 gyr ) gcs spanning three decades in present - day total cluster mass with minimal computational expense .    as an overall conclusion ,",
    "the results of this work are consistent with primordial gcs having formed with universal stellar populations in terms of both the initial mass function and the initial binary properties for stars less massive than @xmath4 1 m@xmath2 . for at least this stellar mass range , there is no evidence to suggest that the initial binary populations were significantly different a hubble time ago in young massive clusters compared to what is observed today in nearby , young and sparse star - forming regions in the milky way disk .",
    "this work was partly supported by the polish ministry of science and higher education , and by the national science centre through the grants dec-2012/07/b / st9/04412 and dec-2011/01/n / st9/06000 .",
    "nl , jw , as and coh all gratefully acknowledge the support of nserc .",
    "mm was partly supported through dfg grant kr 1635/40 - 1 .",
    "coh also acknowledges the support of an alberta ingenuity new faculty award .",
    "bastian n. , strader j. 2014 , mnras , accepted baumgardt h. 2001 , mnras , 325 , 1323 binney j. , tremaine s. , 1987 , galactic dynamics ( princeton : princeton university press ) cohn h. n. , lugger p. m. , couch s. m. , anderson j. , cool a. m. , van den berg m. , bogdanov s. , heinke c. o. , grindlay j. e. 2010 , apj , 722 , 20 conroy c. , spergel d. n. 2011 , apj , 726 , 36 conroy c. 2012 , apj , 758 , 21 de angeli f. piotto g. , cassisi s. , busso g. , recio - blanco a. , salaris m. , aparicio a. , rosenberg a. 2005 , aj , 130 , 116 duchne g. , bouvier j. , simon t. 1999 , a&a , 343 , 831 fellhauer m. , kroupa p. , evans n. w. 2006 , mnras , 372 , 338 ferraro f. r. , lanzoni b. , dalessandro e. , beccari g. , pasquato m. , miocchi p. , rood r. t. , sigurdsson s. , sills a. , vesperini e. , mapelli m. , contreras r. , sanna n. , mucciarelli a. 2012 , nature , 492 , 393 fregeau j. m. , cheung p. , portegies zwart s. f. , rasio f. a. 2004 , mnras , 352 , 1 fregeau j. m. , ivanova n. , rasio f. a. 2009 , apj , 707 , 1533 fukushige t. , heggie d. c. 2000 , mnras , 318 , 753 geller a. m. , de grijs r. , li c. , hurley j. r. 2013 , apj , 779 , 30 giersz m. , heggie d. c. , hurley j. r. 2008 , mnras , 388 , 429 giersz m. , heggie d. c. , hurley j. r. , hypki a. 2013 , mnras , 431 , 2148 gratton r. g. , bonifacio p. , bragaglia a. , carretta e. , castellani v. , centurion m. , chieffi a. , claudi r. , clementini g. , dantona f. , desidera s. , francois p. , grundahl f. , lucatello s. , molaro p. , pasquini l. , sneden c. , spite f. , straniero o. 2001 , a&a , 369 , 87 gratton r. , carretta e. , bragaglia a. 2012 , astronomy & astrophysics review , in press ( arxiv:1201.6526 ) hansen b. m. s. , kalirai j. s. , anderson j. , dotter a. , richer h. b. , rich r. m. , shara m. m. , fahlman g. g. , hurley j. r. , king i. r. , reitzel d. , stetson p. b. 2013 , nature , 500 , 51 harris , w. e. 1996 , aj , 112 , 1487 ( 2010 update ) heggie d. c. 1975 , mnras , 173 , 729 heggie d. c. , giersz m. 2008 , mnras , 389 , 1858 henon m. 1971 , ap&ss , 13 , 284 hillenbrand l. a. , hartmann l. w. 1998 , apj , 492 , 540 hills j. g. 1975 , aj , 80 , 809 hurley j. r. , pols o. r. , tout c. a. 2000 , mnras , 315 , 543 hurley j. r. , pols o. r. , tout c. a. 2002 , mnras , 329 , 897 hurley j. r. , aarseth s. j. , shara m. m. 2007 , apj , 665 , 707 hut p. , murphy b. w. , verbunt f. 1991 , a&a , 241 , 137 hypki a. , giersz m. 2013 , mnras , 429 , 1221 kroupa p. , gilmore g. , tout c. a. 1991 , mnras , 251 , 293 kroupa p. , tout c. a. , gilmore g. 1993 , mnras , 262 , 545 kroupa p. 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1491 ( kroupa 1995a ) kroupa p. 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1522 ( kroupa 1995b ) kroupa p. 2008 , cambridge @xmath19-body lectures , lecture notes in physics , 760 .",
    "springer - verlag , berlin , p. 181",
    "kroupa p. , weidner c. , pflamm - altenburg j. , thies i. , dabringhausen j. , marks m. , maschberger t. 2013 , planets , stars and stellar systems vol .",
    "5 , ed . oswalt t. d. & gilmore g. ( springer science & business media dordrecht : dordrecht ) , 115 - 242 kruijssen j. m. d. , ltzgendorf n. 2013 , mnras letters , accepted ( arxiv:1306.0561 ) kuhn m. a. , feigelson e. d. , getman k. v. , baddeley a. j. , broos p. s. , sills a. , bate m. r. , povich m. s. , luhman k. l. , busk h. a. , naylor t. , king r. r. 2014 , apj , 787 , 107 leigh n. w. c. , sills a. 2011 , mnras , 410 , 2370 leigh n. w. , umbreit s. , sills a. , knigge c. , de marchi g. , glebbeek e. , sarajedini a. 2012 , mnras , 422 , 1592 leigh n. w. , knigge c. , sills a. , perets h. b. , sarajedini a. , glebbeek e. 2013 , mnras , 428 , 897 leigh n. w. , giersz m. , webb j. j. , hypki a. , de marchi g. , kroupa p. , sills a. 2013 , mnras , 436 , 3399 marin - franch a. , aparicio a. , piotto g. , rosenberg a. , chaboyer b. , sarajedini a. , siegel m. , anderson j. , bedin l. r. , dotter a. , hempel m. , king i. , majewski s. , milone a. p. , paust n. , reid i. n. 2009 , apj , 694 , 1498 marks m. , kroupa p. 2010",
    ", mnras , 406 , 2000 marks m. , kroupa p. , oh s. 2011 , mnras , 417 , 1684 marks m. , kroupa p. 2012",
    ", a&a , 543 , 8 marks m. , leigh n. , giersz m. , pfalzner s. , pflamm - altenburg j. , oh s. 2014 , mnras , 441 , 3503 milone a. p. , piotto g. , bedin l. r. , aparicio a. , anderson j. , sarajedini a. , marino a. f. , moretti a. , davies m. b. , chaboyer b. , dotter a. , hempel m. , marin - franch a. , majewski s. , paust n. e. q. , reid i. n. , rosenberg a. , siegel m. 2012 , a&a , 540 , 16 naoz s. , fabrycky d. c. 2014 , apj , submitted ( arxiv:1405.5223 ) osborn w. 1971 , observatory , 91 , 223 parker r. j. , goodwin s. p. , kroupa p. , kouwenhoven m. b. n. 2009 , mnras , 397 , 1577 perets h. b. , fabrycky d. c. 2009 , apj , 697 , 1048 pflamm - altenburg j. , kroupa p. 2007 , mnras , 375 , 855 pflamm - altenburg j. , kroupa p. 2009",
    ", mnras , 397 , 488 piotto g. , bedin l. r. , anderson j. , king i. r. , cassisi s. , milone a. p. , villanova s. , pietrin- ferni a. , renzini a. 2007 , apj , 661 , l53 pooley d. , hut p. 2006",
    ", apjl , 646 , l143 salaris m. , weiss a. , 2002 , a&a , 388 , 492 sigurdsson s. , phinney e. s. 1993 , apj , 415 , 631 sippel a. c. , hurley j. r. 2013 , mnras , 430 , 30 sollima a. , beccari g. , ferraro f. r. , fusi pecci f. , sarajedini a. 2007 , mnras , 380 , 781 sollima a. 2008 , mnras , 388 , 307 sollima a. , mastrobuono battisti a. 2014 , mnras , 443 , 3513 verbunt f. , lewin w. h. g. , van paradijs j. 1989 , mnras , 241 , 51 vishniac e. t. 1978 , apj , 223 , 986 webb j.j . , harris w. e. , sills a. , hurley j. r. 2013 , apj , 764 , 124 webb j.j .",
    ", leigh n. , sills a. , harris w. e. , hurley j. r. 2014 , mnras , 442 , 1569"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we constrain the properties of primordial binary populations in galactic globular clusters . using the mocca monte carlo code for cluster evolution , </S>",
    "<S> our simulations cover three decades in present - day total cluster mass . </S>",
    "<S> our results are compared to the observations of milone et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2012 ) using the photometric binary populations as proxies for the true underlying distributions , in order to test the hypothesis that the data are consistent with an universal initial binary fraction near unity and the binary orbital parameter distributions of kroupa ( 1995 ) . with the exception of a few possible outliers </S>",
    "<S> , we find that the data are to first - order consistent with the universality hypothesis . </S>",
    "<S> specifically , the present - day binary fractions _ inside _ the half - mass radius can be reproduced assuming either high initial binary fractions near unity with a dominant soft binary component as in the kroupa distribution combined with high initial densities ( 10@xmath0 - 10@xmath1 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) , or low initial binary fractions ( @xmath4 5 - 10% ) with a dominant hard binary component combined with moderate initial densities near their present - day values ( 10@xmath5 - 10@xmath6 m@xmath2 pc@xmath3 ) . </S>",
    "<S> this apparent degeneracy can potentially be broken using the binary fractions outside the half - mass radius - _ only high initial binary fractions with a significant soft component combined with high initial densities can contribute to reproducing the observed anti - correlation between the binary fractions outside the half - mass radius and the total cluster mass . </S>",
    "<S> _ we further illustrate using the simulated present - day binary orbital parameter distributions and the technique first introduced in leigh et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2012 ) that the relative fractions of hard and soft binaries can be used to further constrain both the initial cluster density and the initial mass - density relation . </S>",
    "<S> our results favour an initial mass - density relation of the form r@xmath7 m@xmath8 with @xmath9 1/3 , corresponding to an initial correlation between cluster mass and density .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    binaries : general  stars : kinematics and dynamics  globular clusters : general  stars : formation  methods : numerical . </S>"
  ]
}