{
  "article_text": [
    "for many years now the behaviour of dark matter has been intensively studied , both observationally and using simulations across a wide range of scales , leading to the development of the dominant @xmath0cdm concordance cosmological model .",
    "multiple lines of observational evidence support the supposition that a cold dark matter component comprises around 27% of the energy budget of the universe .",
    "these include cmb observations @xcite , large - scale structure , gravitational lensing and cluster dynamics ( see e.g. @xcite or @xcite for a more recent review and references ) .",
    "nonetheless , due to the still mysterious nature of the dark matter itself , it is difficult to constrain the model sufficiently well to make concrete predictions at small scales .",
    "therefore there remains several unresolved problems , such as the missing satellites problem , the cusp / core issue and the predicted existence of satellite halos that are `` too big to fail '' ( see e.g. @xcite for a recent review of these issues ) .",
    "it remains to be seen if improved handling of baryonic physics in cosmological simulations can resolve any of these problems .",
    "in addition , recent observations @xcite have pointed to the existence of large thin rotating disks of satellite galaxies around both the milky way and andromeda , something which is difficult to incorporate into the heirarchical formation mechanism of @xmath0cdm .    the puzzles of the dark sector have provoked the consideration of modifying gravity in an attempt to reconcile observations with theory .",
    "multiple examples exist in the literature ( see the comprehensive review of @xcite ) .",
    "the majority of these theories are addressed towards the mystery of dark energy , rather than attempting to replace dark matter .",
    "one well - known exploration of the latter possibility , however , is the modified newtonian dynamics ( mond ) first proposed by @xcite , in which the standard newtonian gravitational force is enhanced once the accelerations drop below an empirically determined value of @xmath1  m / s@xmath2 .",
    "development of this idea to a full relativistic formulation , which is necessary for the construction of a cosmological model , has been considered by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite among many others ( see @xcite and references therein ) . at this stage",
    ", however , there is still no definitive relativistic theory that reproduces the mond phenomenology and does not exhibit any pathological or unwelcome behaviour ( see @xcite for a discussion of such problems ) .",
    "preliminary numerical investigations of cosmology in mond @xcite suggest that structure formation begins at an earlier epoch than in @xmath0cdm and proceeds more rapidly , possibly producing too much structure at late times .",
    "completely consistent numerical simulations of cosmology in mond ( i.e. utilising a full relativistic formulation ) are currently lacking , however , so no definitive statements can yet be made .",
    "given the unresolved problems of @xmath0cdm at small scales , the mond paradigm remains an intriguing possibility for galaxy dynamics , at the very least as a phenomenological model of the behaviour of dark matter in galaxies .",
    "the success of the simple mond scaling relation in modelling galaxy rotation curves , across a wide range of mass scales , is certainly suggestive .",
    "this is perhaps exemplified most clearly in the case of the baryonic tully - fisher relation @xcite , which seems to imply that galaxy rotation curves are remarkably insensitive to the details of the dark matter structure in their halos .",
    "indeed , this relation implies that there is a significant `` missing baryon '' problem in galaxy mass dark matter halos , while there is a similar such problem in galaxy clusters in mond .",
    "galaxy clusters may be considered as the environment in which mond begins to show significant weaknesses as compared to @xmath0cdm , as even with the modification of gravity there is still a requirement for some kind of additional unseen matter in clusters . for an extensive review of the successes and failures of mond , and possible future directions ,",
    "see @xcite .",
    "as mond does not obviate the need for an additional unseen matter component at cluster scales and beyond , it is worthwhile asking the question of exactly how well mond performs at galactic scales .",
    "it is not clear how the broader picture of galaxy dynamics behaves in a mond universe , and whether it is consistent with observations . to investigate such questions we require numerical simulations using a mond gravitational solver .",
    "previous work has laid the groundwork for the development of such codes , in particular the pioneering work of @xcite . in @xcite",
    "a mond n - body code was used to investigate the stability of mond disks , as well as the behaviour of galaxy mergers . @xcite",
    "modified the cosmological n - body code amiga along similar lines .",
    "a publically available code known as nmody ( @xcite ) has been available for some time , and has been used to investigate various aspects of stellar dynamics in mond , such as galaxy mergers and dynamical friction ( @xcite ) .",
    "this code works on a fixed spherical grid , however , making it cumbersome to perform simulations of systems that exhibit little symmetry .    to allow us to run simulations that cover wide ranges of length scales ( as necessary to consider satellite galaxies orbiting around hosts , or galaxies falling into clusters , for example ) and to model gas physics , we have chosen to modify the powerful n - body / hydrodynamics adaptive mesh refinement code ramses @xcite .",
    "our aim is to explore mondian galactic dynamics in more physically realistic settings , involving physical processes such as galaxy mergers , ram - pressure stripping and tidal stripping . in this paper",
    "we will describe the code itself , and demonstrate the performance of the code using simple idealised tests . in future publications",
    "we will use the code to examine mondian galaxy dynamics .",
    "there are various possibilities for constructing a theory that exhibits mond phenomenology in weak accelerations , with two broad classes that may be referred to as modified inertia or modified gravity ( see @xcite ) . in this work",
    "we will consider the modified gravity theories , which involves a modification of the standard poisson equation for the gravitational potential .",
    "the `` traditional '' formulation of mond in this vein is that proposed in @xcite , referred to as the aqual formulation ( due to the equation being derived from an aquadratic lagrangian ) .",
    "the non - linearity of this equation limits the numerical techniques that may be used in a computational solver .",
    "the numerical scheme in ramses , however , is readily adaptable to accommodate such a non - linear equation .",
    "a more recent formulation of mond , often referred to as qumond , was presented in @xcite . in this method",
    ", the non - linearity of the original mond equation was reduced to a quasi - linearity , by maintaining the standard poisson equation , and invoking the presence of an auxiliary acceleration field or , equivalently , an additional density component ( often referred to as a `` phantom dark matter '' distribution ) . for computational purposes",
    ", this formulation therefore amounts to solving the poisson equation twice , using the modified density distribution in the second step . as this uses the usual linear poisson equation ,",
    "standard numerical techniques may be applied for this version of mond , albeit with an additional step of calculating the density distribution . in the course of developing our code",
    ", @xcite published a description of their own modification of ramses to include a qumond solver . to facilitate a comparison with the aqual formulation we have also incorporated a qumond solver into our code .",
    "one interesting consequence of introducing an acceleration scale in the modification of gravity is that the strong equivalence principle is no longer satisfied .",
    "this means that the centre - of - mass motion of a system has a direct effect on the internal accelerations of that system .",
    "this is known as the external field effect ( efe ) , and has been the subject of several investigations @xcite .",
    "this behaviour manifests itself in different ways in the qumond and aqual formulations : in the former the effect acts on the internal accelerations in a direction parallel to the newtonian gravitational acceleration , while in the latter it is parallel to the mond gravitational acceleration . in general ,",
    "these two vectors may not be aligned , giving rise to differently oriented torques acting on the stellar system .",
    "our code facilitates a comparison of the efe in these two formulations .",
    "the paper is organised as follows : in section [ modram ] we describe the modifications made to the ramses code to incorporate the two formulations of mond ; in section [ codetests ] we show the results of n - body tests used to verify that the code is capturing the mond dynamics correctly ; and finally we summarise and conclude in section [ concl ] .",
    "the technical details of the ramses code may be found in @xcite . in this section",
    "we will summarise the changes necessary to implement both the `` classical '' bekenstein - milgrom mond theory given by @xcite , which we will refer to as aqual throughout this paper , and the quasi - linear formulation of @xcite , which we will refer to as qumond .",
    "ramses uses an iterative gauss - siedel solver accelerated with a multigrid scheme to solve the newtonian poisson equation . in the aqual formulation",
    ", we must solve a non - linear poisson equation , given by @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the interpolation function which allows the transition between newtonian and mondian dynamics , and @xmath5 is the mond acceleration parameter .",
    "for systems whose accelerations are below @xmath5 , the gravitational force will be enhanced beyond the expected newtonian force .",
    "the only constraints on @xmath6 are that it must satisfy the following limits in order to produce mondian enhancement of the accelerations in the weak gravity regime , and recover newtonian gravity in the strong gravity regime : @xmath7 for @xmath8 , and @xmath9 for @xmath10 .",
    "several interpolation functions have been discussed in the literature , and it is a trivial matter to implement any of them in our code . for the moment we choose the simplest function : @xmath11 with this choice of interpolation function it is known that mond contradicts solar system observations ( @xcite ) , requiring the use of a function which makes a more rapid transition from the mondian to the newtonian regime .",
    "we will investigate the effects of different choices of interpolation function in future work .",
    "we set @xmath12  m / s@xmath2 throughout this paper .",
    "note that this value is user - defined within an input parameter file and so may be easily changed if required .",
    "the gauss - siedel solver in ramses uses a standard 7-point stencil to update the value of @xmath13 at the central grid point by the average of @xmath13 on the six neighbouring grid points .",
    "this stencil is shown for comparison in fig .",
    "[ std_stencil ] .",
    "we will follow the procedure of @xcite , @xcite and @xcite by modifying the gauss - siedel solver used in ramses to use an extended stencil of points around each grid point in the calculation of @xmath13 , as shown in fig  [ mond_stencil ] .",
    "function is evaluated.,width=302 ]    the updated value of @xmath13 at each grid point is now given by @xmath14 the subscripts on the @xmath6 function denote that the function is to be evaluated midway between the grid points , as indicated by the squares in fig .",
    "[ mond_stencil ] , and the denominator is the sum over @xmath6 at all 6 neighbouring midway points .",
    "the evaluation of @xmath6 requires a finite - difference calculation of the gradient of @xmath13 at the neighbouring grid points , and this requires the extended stencil shown in fig .",
    "[ mond_stencil ] . as an example , the gradients of @xmath13 at the @xmath15 grid point ( used in the evaluation of @xmath6 at that location ) are calculated as follows : @xmath16 similar expressions apply for the 5 other midway points at which @xmath6 is evaluated",
    ". clearly the dependence of @xmath6 on @xmath13 leads to a @xmath13 dependence in the coefficients used in the gauss - siedel solver and thus a non - linear behaviour .",
    "we can easily see from eq .",
    "[ gsmond ] that we recover the newtonian version of the gauss - siedel solver when @xmath17 , as is the case whenever all accelerations in the system are well above the mond scale .",
    "the extended stencil requires a modification of the ramses code as we now require @xmath13 values at _ diagonal _ neighbours , such as @xmath18 . rather than substantially revise the data structure used in ramses to incorporate these new grid points as `` neighbours , '' we choose to use the existing linked list architecture to extract the points we require .",
    "specifically , we find the neighbours of neighbours in order to reach the diagonal points .    at this point",
    "it is worth clarifying some terminology used in the ramses code .",
    "the computational mesh is structured in levels of refinement , the higher levels corresponding to more refinement ( i.e. a higher resolution mesh ) . at each level , the mesh is organised into `` grids '' and `` cells . ''",
    "the cells are subdivisions of a grid , such that each grid contains 8 cells in three dimensions , 4 cells in two dimensions , and 2 cells in one dimension .",
    "a grid at one level corresponds to a cell at a lower level of refinement .",
    "ramses uses a `` fully threaded tree '' data structure @xcite in which the neighbouring _ grids _ of a refined _ cell _ are referenced with pointers for each cell .",
    "the neighbouring _ cell _ is then reached from its associated parent grid . in order to reach the diagonal point ,",
    "we `` leapfrog '' from the first neighbouring cell to the relevant neighbour of _ that _ cell . in the event that the first neighbouring cell does not exist ( i.e. the neighbouring _ grid _ exists , as this is a cell at the next coarsest level , but that cell has not been refined further )",
    "then we move through _ two _ levels of the mesh hierarchy ( instead of just one ) to find the diagonal point . in the event that the diagonal cell does not exist , we interpolate the @xmath13 value from the next coarsest level .    the multigrid algorithm utilised in ramses may be summarised in the following steps ( more details may be found in @xcite ) :    1 .",
    "a simple initial guess is given for @xmath13 .",
    "2 .   the iterative solver updates @xmath13 on the fine mesh .",
    "this step is referred to as `` pre - smoothing '' in the context of the multigrid technique .",
    "3 .   the residual ( or error )",
    "is calculated on the fine mesh .",
    "the values of the residual are transferred to the coarse mesh .",
    "this is known as the `` restriction '' step , and in ramses a simple average of the fine grid point values that surround a coarse grid point is assigned to the coarse grid point .",
    "the _ correction _ to the fine solution is calculated on the coarse mesh , using the coarse version of the iterative solver .",
    "note that the correction is fixed to be zero in the boundary of the computational domain",
    "this coarse correction is then interpolated back to the fine mesh and added to the fine solution .",
    "the iterative solver then updates the new corrected fine solution .",
    "this is known as `` post - smoothing . ''",
    "this process may be represented symbolically as : @xmath19 where the @xmath20 and @xmath21 subscripts denote quantities on the fine and coarse meshes respectively . the linear matrix operator on the fine / coarse mesh @xmath22 is , of course , the finite - difference version of the differential operator @xmath23 in the poisson equation .",
    "the right - hand side of the poisson equation is denoted by @xmath24 , while the residual is @xmath25 .",
    "it is important to note that it is the _ correction _ to the fine solution that is solved for on the coarse mesh , rather than the coarse solution itself .    for the non - linear aqual formulation of mond we must modify the above multigrid algorithm , in addition to modifying the gauss - siedel solver .",
    "several approaches are possible : we choose the full approximation storage scheme ( for details see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "in essence this requires that we calculate the full solution to eq .",
    "[ aqualeq ] on all _ coarse _ levels as well .",
    "this contrasts with the linear ( newtonian ) case where only the correction is calculated on the coarse levels .    for the non - linear equation",
    ", the multigrid scheme now proceeds as follows : @xmath26 the two main differences with the linear case are that we must restrict the initial fine solution after smoothing , and that we calculate the full coarse solution @xmath27 , using the restricted fine solution , rather than just the correction .",
    "the restricted fine solution is then subtracted from the coarse solution to find the correction . as for the linear newtonian case",
    ", we recursively apply this algorithm using the various levels of refinement .",
    "the qumond version of the code does not require any modifications to the gauss - siedel solver , as this formulation involves solving the standard poisson equation , albeit twice , and with a modified density field the second time .",
    "the calculation of the density field , however , makes use of the extended stencil .",
    "we must solve the following elliptic differential equation for the so - called `` phantom dark matter '' density of qumond : @xmath28 where the newtonian potential @xmath29 is determined from a standard pass through the ramses multigrid algorithm . the mond interpolation function used in this formulation",
    "is closely related to the inverse of that used in the aqual formulation , satisfying the limits @xmath30 when @xmath31 and @xmath32 when @xmath33 , where in this case the argument is the ratio of the _ newtonian _ gravitational acceleration to the mond scale .",
    "the @xmath34 function corresponding to our chosen @xmath6 function is @xmath35 this is related to @xmath36 , the inverse of the @xmath6 function , by @xmath37 .",
    "we can see that the functional form of eq .",
    "[ qumondeq ] is very similar to eq .",
    "[ aqualeq ] , and so we use the finite - difference stencil described for the aqual formulation to solve this equation .",
    "the difference is that we can determine @xmath38 at each grid point using eq .",
    "[ qumondeq ] immediately : we do not need to use an iterative scheme to converge to the result .",
    "after the additional density contribution has been calculated , we add this to the real density field of the system , and solve the standard poisson equation a second time to determine the mond potential .",
    "this formulation does not require any modifications to the multigrid scheme .",
    "we must , however , make minor modifications to the sequence of execution through a time step used by ramses in order to solve the poisson equation with the appropriate density field .",
    "in addition , we must introduce new arrays to store the mondian potential and the `` phantom dark matter '' density , increasing the memory usage of the code .      for points that lie outside the full computational domain ,",
    "ramses uses a fixed analytic value of the gravitational potential to provide a boundary value .",
    "the default is to use @xmath39 ( in three dimensions , with @xmath40 ) : the potential sourced by a point mass at the origin , where the mass is equal to the total mass in the simulation .",
    "this may be easily modified to use other choices .",
    "the situation is more complicated in the case of boundaries for an adaptive refined level , which typically is smaller than the full computational domain . in this case",
    "the potential required at the boundary is interpolated from the next lower level ( i.e. the first `` coarse '' level before the current level ) .",
    "this interpolated value is then used to modify the right - hand side of the poisson equation that is used in the solver .",
    "the precise location of the boundary at any particular level is determined using a masking procedure .",
    "further details may be found in @xcite .    as for the newtonian code",
    ", we must supply an analytic estimate of the potential at the domain boundary .",
    "this is done for both the aqual and qumond formulations using the asymptotic behaviour of the mond potential sourced by an isolated system ( @xcite ) : @xmath41    the treatment of boundaries on adaptive mesh refinement ( amr ) levels is unchanged in the qumond formulation . we must , however , modify this scheme for the aqual formulation , for the following reason .",
    "firstly , recall that there are two mesh heirarchies in ramses : one is the set of levels used in the multigrid acceleration of the iterative solver , the other is the set of amr levels used to obtain high resolution in regions of interest .",
    "the first set of levels is always a sub - set of the second set of levels , in the sense that the poisson solver determines @xmath13 on each level , using all coarser levels for the multigrid acceleration . in the standard newtonian case",
    ", the iterative solver determines the _ correction _ on all the coarse levels in the multigrid scheme , not the full coarse solution .",
    "therefore , the boundary condition on all the coarse levels is simply @xmath42 , using the notation of section  [ subsubsec : aqual ] .",
    "thus the boundary treatment used in standard ramses is adapted to this scheme , using a masking procedure and a modification of the right - hand side of the poisson equation to ensure that this boundary condition is applied .    in our non - linear solver",
    ", we can not alter the right - hand side of eq .",
    "[ aqualeq ] with @xmath13-dependent terms .",
    "therefore , for each fine amr level , we choose to find the boundary cells at the start of the multigrid algorithm , determine the required @xmath13 values in those cells by interpolation from the next coarsest level , and store these in an array for use in the gauss - siedel solver .",
    "this introduces some minor additional memory overhead to the code .",
    "the modifications made to the multigrid algorithm for the aqual formulation require some minor modifications to the parallelisation in ramses .",
    "the full approximation storage scheme implies that we must communicate the fine resolution solution for @xmath13 to all the virtual boundaries of the cpus .",
    "this is easily done using an additional call to the relevant communication subroutine already implemented in ramses .",
    "we have run tests using both the serial and parallel versions of the code , and the results agree exactly .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     the average rotational velocities as a function of radius in the disk are shown in fig .",
    "[ meanv_comparison ] .",
    "the rotation curve at the beginning of the simulation ( identical in both the newtonian and aqual runs ) is shown as a black line , the newtonian rotation curve after @xmath43  gyr is shown as a dashed blue line , while the aqual rotation curve is shown as a solid green line . in the newtonian case ,",
    "the flat rotation curve is evident due to the presence of the dark matter halo , and it remains stable throughout the evolution .",
    "the aqual rotation curve remains effectively flat at large radii , entirely due to the mond enhancement of the gravitational accelerations in the disk , as there is no dark matter halo in this simulation .",
    "the mond curve is slightly lower than that of the newtonian system after @xmath43  gyr , and the existence of the bar is evident in the dip in the rotation curve at small radii .",
    "this test demonstrates that our code can evolve a rotationally - supported system over a significant timescale , and that our code may be used in the study of secular processes in mond disks .",
    "-bins of width @xmath44  pc .",
    "the black line denotes the initial conditions of the simulations , the blue dashed line shows the newtonian rotation curve after approximately @xmath43  gyr , while the green solid line shows the aqual rotation curve after the same time.,width=302 ]      although the differences between the two formulations of mond utilised in our code are expected to be small , the differences that would build up over time between a qumond and an aqual system may well be detectable .    as a basic illustration of the fact that the two formulations differ , we place an analytic plummer profile ( again with @xmath45  pc and @xmath46 ) in the background field of an analytic exponential disk model with a bulge .",
    "this disk has @xmath47 , a scale radius of @xmath48  kpc , and a scale height of @xmath49  kpc .",
    "the bulge is modelled by a hernquist sphere with @xmath50 and scale radius @xmath51  kpc .",
    "we place the plummer sphere at the origin of our computational domain , while the centre of the bulge of the disk galaxy is located at @xmath52 , i.e. at @xmath53  kpc `` diagonally '' away from the plummer sphere . in this way we can examine the behaviour of the external field effect on the internal accelerations of the plummer sphere .",
    "as stated in the introduction , the external field effect is known to differ in these two formulations of mond .    .",
    "the blue dashed line shows the differences when the background galaxy model is not present , while the solid green line shows the differences in the presence of the background galaxy model.,width=302 ]    the accelerations throughout the system , at varying levels of refinement , are determined using a single time - step calculation of raymond with a box length of @xmath54  kpc .",
    "we consider the difference in the aqual and qumond accelerations along the @xmath55 direction : @xmath56 with @xmath57  pc away from the origin ( this is because the computational mesh only samples certain points in the domain ) . the differences at refinement level 11 , corresponding to a cell length of @xmath58  pc , are shown in fig .",
    "[ compare_aqual_qumond ] .",
    "the blue dashed line shows the differences when the background disk model is not present , and so there is no external field effect .",
    "there is a small difference in the accelerations at the centre of the plummer sphere , due to errors arising from the finite resolution of the grid .",
    "when the background galaxy model is present , however , the differences become somewhat larger .",
    "although a difference in the accelerations of @xmath59 km / s@xmath2 is rather small , this is on the order of @xmath60 of the mond acceleration scale @xmath5 .",
    "furthermore , the cumulative effect of such differences over significant timescales ( such as during a satellite orbit over several gyr ) may well become substantial . finally , it is possible that in other systems the differences between the two formulations is larger than our purely illustrative example shown here .",
    "we leave the investigation of such differences for future work .      due to the extended stencil used in the iterative solver in the aqual code , there are @xmath61 neighbouring grid points as opposed to @xmath62 in standard ramses .",
    "furthermore , the solver must evaluate the @xmath62 neighbouring @xmath6 values .",
    "in total , the aqual code performs calculations at @xmath63 points for each sweep through the iterative solver , and thus we would expect that this code is at least four times slower than the newtonian code .",
    "the qumond code also uses an extended stencil , but this is only required for one pass through the mesh , when the additional density contribution is calculated .",
    "the main reason for slower execution of the qumond code is because we run the solver twice each time step .",
    "therefore , we expect that the qumond code runs at least two times slower than the newtonian code .",
    "we perform a simple timing analysis by running the isolated plummer model described in section  [ subsec : tests_isoplummer ] for the newtonian , aqual and qumond codes , as serial runs , and as parallel runs on 2 processors and on 4 processors .",
    "ramses calculates the time elapsed between each main time step , i.e. whenever the code returns to the base level mesh that covers the entire computational domain .",
    "we use this time to compare the codes .",
    "the absolute timing results are given in fig .",
    "[ timings ] , while in fig .",
    "[ timings_norm ] we have normalised the times by the time taken for a single processor .",
    "this allows us to check that the speed - up from parallelisation is not adversely affected by our modifications .",
    "normalised by the time taken for one processor in each case .",
    "the parallelisation speed - up is essentially identical for all the versions of the code.,width=302 ]    as expected , the aqual code is , on average , about four times slower than the newtonian code , while the qumond code is about two times slower .",
    "the parallelisation speed - up is identical in all three cases , showing that our modifications for the mond calculation have had no adverse effect .",
    "we have developed a modification of the n - body / hydrodynamics code ramses that enables high resolution simulations using mond gravity .",
    "the code utilises two formulations of mond , known as aqual and qumond , allowing a direct comparison between them and the investigation of possible observational consequences from the different manifestations of mondian behaviour .",
    "the execution time of the code has also been demonstrated to be as fast as may be expected , considering the complexity of the mond calculation .",
    "furthermore , using idealised tests we have confirmed that the raymond code is able to evolve dispersion - supported and rotation - supported stellar systems in a stable manner in a mond gravitational potential .",
    "the code will soon be available on request and a freely available public release is planned for the future .",
    "one of the principal advantages of using ramses for this work is that the modular design of the code allowed us to modify only the gravitational solver : we did not have to make any adjustments to the hydrodynamics solver .",
    "in addition , the hydrodynamics solver simply uses whatever gravitational potential is produced by that part of the code , meaning that our code is capable of hydrodynamics simulations using mond gravity .    as stated in the introduction ,",
    "the primary motivation for the development of this code was the study of how mond may affect the dynamics of galaxies in different environments , and how the physical processes affecting galaxies in those environments may be modified .",
    "a specific example of this is the study of the consequences of the external field effect , and how a difference between the efe in the two formulations of mond may lead to observational differences between mond theories , as well as standard @xmath0cdm predictions . beyond the applications to galaxy dynamics , the code may also be used to further investigate the consequences of mond for cosmology . while still not a fully consistent treatment for cosmology ( there is no relativistic formulation of mond implemented for the behaviour of the hubble flow ) it may nonetheless prove useful to compare and contrast the development of structure formation in the two mond formulations .",
    "there are , of course , many possible applications of our code at galactic scales , including galaxy interactions , the behaviour of dwarf satellites , star cluster dynamics in the milky - way and so on",
    ". such studies of the effects of mond gravity on galaxy dynamics in various environments will be the subject of a series of future publications .    through applications of mond gravity to more complex circumstances of galaxy interactions and environmental effects , we hope to more fully explore the consequences of this persistent idea .",
    "it may well be that within the domain of applicability where mond has historically performed very well , there are possibilities of finding conclusive observational signatures of mond that contrast markedly to those of @xmath0cdm , and ultimately a route to improve our understanding of dark matter , modified gravity , or both .",
    "the authors wish to thank romain teyssier for providing very helpful information about ramses via the ramses users mailing list .",
    "they would also like to thank francoise combes for suggesting the use of ramses for this project , and marcel pawlowski for additional comments .",
    "finally we wish to thank the anonymous reviewer for helpful comments and suggestions .",
    "gc , rs and mf acknowledge the support of fondecyt grants 3130480 , 3120135 and 1130521 respectively .    angus g.w .",
    ", diaferio a. , famaey b. , van der heyden k.  j. , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 202 bekenstein j. and milgrom m. , 1984 , apj , 286 , 7 bekenstein j.d . , 2004 , phys .",
    "d , 70 , 083509 binney j. and tremaine s. , 2008 , `` galactic dynamics , '' princeton university press blanchet l. , novak j. , 2011 , mnras , 412 , 2530 de blok w.j.g . and mcgaugh s.s . , 1998 , apj , 508 , 132 brada r. and milgrom m. , 1999 , apj , 519 , 590 bruneton j .-",
    "p . and esposito - farse g. , 2007 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 76 , 124012 clifton t. , ferreira p.g . , padilla a. , skordis c. , 2011 , phys",
    ", 513 , 1 derakhshani k. , haghi h. , 2014 , apj , 783 , 48 famaey b. and mcgaugh s.s . , 2012 , living rev .",
    "relativity 15 guillet t. , teyssier r. , 2011 , j. comput .",
    "phys . , 230 , 4756 hees a. , folkner w.m . ,",
    "jacobson r.a . , park r.s . , 2014 ,",
    "d , 89 , 102002 ibata r.a . , lewis g.f . , conn a.r . , irwin m.j .",
    ", mcconnachie a.w . ,",
    "chapman s.c .",
    ", collins m.l . , fardal m. , ferguson a.m.n . ,",
    "ibata n.g . ,",
    "mackey a.d . ,",
    "martin n.f . , navarro j. , rich r.m . ,",
    "valls - gabaud d. , widrow l.m . , 2013 , nature , 493 , 62 khokhlov a.m. , 1998 , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 143 , 519 knebe a. and gibson b.k . , 2004 , mnras , 347 , 1055 kuijken k. and dubinski j. , 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1341 llinares c. , knebe a. , zhao h.s . , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 1778 londrillo p. and nipoti c. , 2009 , memorie della societ astronomica italiana supplement , v.13 , p.89 lghausen f. , famaey b. , kroupa p. , arxiv:1405.5963 lghausen f. , famaey b. , kroupa p. , 2014 ,",
    "mnras , 441 , 2497 mcgaugh s. , 2012 , aj , 143 , 40 milgrom m. , 1983 , apj , 270 , 365 milgrom m. , 2009 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 80 , 123536 milgrom m. , 2010 , mnras , 403 , 886 nipoti c. , londrillo p. , ciotti l. , 2007 , mnras , 381 , l104 nipoti c. , ciotti l. , binney j. , londrillo p. , 2008",
    ", mnras , 386 , 2194 pawlowski m.s . , pflamm - altenburg j. , kroupa p. , 2012",
    ", mnras , 423 , 1109 peebles p.j.e . , 2012 ,",
    "arxiv:1203.6334 planck collaboration , 2013 , arxiv:1303.5076 sanders r.h .",
    ", 2003 , mnras , 342 , 901 sanders r.h .",
    "and noordermeer e. , 2007 , mnras , 379 , 702 skordis c. , 2008 , phys .",
    "d , 77 , 123502 smith r. , lane r.r . , conn b.c . , fellhauer m. , 2012 , mnras , 423 , 543 teyssier r. , 2002 , a&a , 385 , 337 tiret o. and combes f. , 2007 , a&a , 464 , 517 trottenberg u. , oosterlee c. , schller a. , 2001 , `` multigrid , '' academic press wu x. , zhao h.s . , famaey b. , 2010 , jcap , 6 , 010 weinberg , 2008 , `` cosmology , '' oxford university press weinberg d.h . , bullock j.s .",
    ", governato f. , kuzio de naray r. , peter a.h.g . , 2013 ,",
    "arxiv:1306.0913 zhao h.s . , li b. , bienaym o. , 2010 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 82 , 103001"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the @xmath0cdm concordance cosmological model is supported by a wealth of observational evidence , particularly on large scales . at galactic scales , however , the model is poorly constrained and recent observations suggest a more complex behaviour in the dark sector than may be accommodated by a single cold dark matter component . furthermore , a modification of the gravitational force in the very weak field regime may account for at least some of the phenomenology of dark matter . </S>",
    "<S> a well - known example of such an approach is modified newtonian dynamics ( mond ) . </S>",
    "<S> while this idea has proven remarkably successful in the context of stellar dynamics in individual galaxies , the effects of such a modification of gravity on galaxy interactions and environmental processes deserves further study . to explore this arena </S>",
    "<S> we modify the parallel adaptive mesh refinement code ramses to use two formulations of mond . </S>",
    "<S> we implement both the fully non - linear aquadratic lagrangian ( aqual ) formulation as well as the simpler quasi - linear formulation ( qumond ) . </S>",
    "<S> the relevant modifications necessary for the poisson solver in ramses are discussed in detail . </S>",
    "<S> using idealised tests , in both serial and parallel runs , we demonstrate the effectiveness of the code .    </S>",
    "<S> gravitation , methods : numerical , galaxies : kinematics and dynamics </S>"
  ]
}