{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation of dark matter haloes has been studied extensively using numerical dark matter only simulations  ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "extending the insight from dark matter only simulations to include a theory of galaxy formation requires a method to link the formation of dark matter haloes to observable galaxy properties .",
    "the most direct method available is hydrodynamical simulations , which model the co - evolution of dark matter and baryons  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . by directly including hydrodynamics in structure formation simulations one can probe the thermal state and column density distribution of the intergalactic medium ( igm ) via the lyman-@xmath1 forest  @xcite , the phase structure and heavy element composition of the circumgalactic medium ( cgm ) and igm  @xcite , and the nature and rates of accretion of dark matter and baryons into galaxies  @xcite .",
    "since these simulations can follow the dynamics of both the dark matter and baryons down to small spatial scales , predictions can be made about their internal structure including the distribution of gas  @xcite and the formation of stellar disks and bulges  @xcite . as a result of this detailed information ,",
    "simulations are a valuable tool for interpreting observational data and placing observed galaxies into a more complete evolution based cosmological context .",
    "many important galaxy properties  such as stellar mass  have substantial uncertainties associated with their measurement  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "these uncertainties can be physical in origin ( e.g. , the slope of the imf , treatment of the thermally pulsating asymptotic giant branch phase , etc . ) or due to assumptions made during the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) fitting procedures  @xcite . accurately estimating physical galaxy properties based on broadband photometric data points ( or even full seds ) is difficult because observed galaxy seds contain contributions from stars with a complex distribution of stellar ages and metallicities .",
    "simplifying assumptions regarding the functional form of the star formation history , or a uniform stellar metallicity , are often assumed .",
    "these assumptions can lead to systematic errors on the derived galaxy stellar mass , independent of physical uncertainties  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "similarly , derived galaxy structural properties  such as bulge - to - disk decompositions or galaxy sizes  are often determined inconsistently in simulations and observations  @xcite .",
    "a crucial difficulty when relating hydrodynamical simulations and observations is the translation of results between the two , a necessary step for accurate comparisons  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "there are two fundamental ways to make this translation , by either converting observed quantities into the space of physical parameters , or by generating ` mock ' ( or synthetic ) observations of the simulation output .",
    "only the second approach provides a unique mapping , avoiding the uncertainties involved in a potentially non - unique inversion .",
    "it also allows observational effects to be accounted for ( e.g. noise , survey geometry , ... ) , and enables observational tools and data analysis techniques to be run on the simulated observations as is . for comparison to observations of stellar light ,",
    "this can be achieved in simulations by adopting stellar population synthesis ( sps ) models to assign light to all star particles within a galaxy based on their age and metallicity distributions  @xcite .",
    "these mock observations can be used to address potential issues in the way that sed fitting or photometric analysis is performed and even to directly fit galaxy seds rather than relying on sed modelling  @xcite .",
    "a large body of literature already exists within the idealized merger simulation community in this direction : @xcite used mock broadband images of idealized merger simulations  @xcite to determine the conversion from observed galaxy pair counts into merger rates . @xcite and",
    "@xcite used mock galaxy seds of idealized mergers to determine the lifetime and redshift dependent abundance of k+a galaxies , while @xcite used synthetic galaxy spectra to propose a new mid - ir diagnostic of agn . @xcite",
    "investigated how well the true mass profiles of simulated massive compact galaxies could be recovered from their light profiles in different bands .",
    "@xcite elucidated the physical meaning of the submillimetre galaxy selection , and @xcite tested how well the integrated ir luminosity traces the star formation rate .",
    "similar work exists within the semi analytic community including the production of mock galaxy luminosity functions  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and mock light - cone data  @xcite based on dark matter only simulations  @xcite .",
    "the millennium run observatory  ( mrobs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) built a theoretical virtual observatory capable of producing synthetic data products that could then be reduced and analyzed with observational software .",
    "the mrobs synthetic observations covered forty filters where the light was assigned to each galaxy by combining information about the star formation history with stellar population synthesis models .",
    "the resulting data products were formatted in a way that they could be analyzed using standard observational software packages  @xcite and distributed using a web based relational sql database  @xcite .    in this paper , we describe the production of a mock galaxy image catalog based on the recent illustris simulation  @xcite .",
    "the illustris project has two basic principles : ( i ) build a comprehensive physical framework that allows galaxy populations to regulate their stellar mass growth appropriately and ( ii ) apply that physical framework in hydrodynamical simulations of large cosmological volumes . a detailed description of our adopted feedback module , which includes a model for star formation driven winds as well as agn driven outflows , was presented in  @xcite and demonstrated to appropriately regulate galaxy populations across cosmic time in  @xcite .",
    "adopting this feedback model ensures that the galaxies within these simulations match a wide range of galaxy observable properties such as the redshift @xmath2 galaxy stellar mass function .",
    "the main illustris simulation was run in a periodic box of size @xmath3 mpc with sufficiently high mass and spatial resolution ( i.e. @xmath4 and @xmath5 kpc ) to resolve a wide range of galaxy structures  @xcite .    using results from the illustris simulation ,",
    "we employ stellar population synthesis ( sps ) templates to produce synthetic broadband galaxy images and integrated seds .",
    "these mock images encode information about the spatial distribution and formation history of galactic stellar components .",
    "the synthetic galaxy seds and images produced from the illustris simulation are unique compared to previous synthetic data catalogs .",
    "compared against idealized isolated and merging galaxy simulations  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the illustris simulation galaxies are embedded in a proper cosmological context .",
    "the galaxies in the illustris simulation accrete gas from the surrounding intergalactic medium , undergo major and minor mergers , and experience feedback as described in  @xcite .",
    "all of these processes are reflected in the stellar mass distribution and star formation history , which define the resulting mock images .",
    "previous generations of synthetic images and spectra have been generated from ",
    "zoom - in \" style simulations of individual ( or a small number of ) objects  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . like the illustris simulation",
    ", these simulations contain a proper cosmological context for galaxy growth , and they have there been used to study the growth of galactic disks and bulges .",
    "our large - volume simulation approach is distinct from the `` zoom - in '' style simulations in that it allows us to analyze the properties of a large population of galaxies with varied formation histories and environments under uniform assumptions about the input physics  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "in contrast to semi - analytic based mock data products  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , our hydrodynamic approach allows us to self - consistently treat the internal galactic dynamics ( e.g. , bar formation , merger events , etc . )",
    "that drive galaxy morphology evolution .",
    "the resulting synthetic image catalog has many applications including building mass dependent average galaxy sed templates , isolating the origin of shelled galaxies , and understanding the viewing angle dependence of barred galaxies .    in this paper ,",
    "our main goal is to detail the methods for producing these images , explain the data format , and explain how the image catalog will be accessible .",
    "we additionally demonstrate some initial science applications of the resulting synthetic images and spectra .",
    "this paper is outlined as follows . in section [ sec : methods ] we describe the simulation that has been used to produce our mock image catalog as well as our methods for producing the mock galaxy image catalog based on its output . in section [ sec : data ] we describe the format for the mock galaxy images , present properties of the galaxy seds , and demonstrate multi - band image generation . in section",
    "[ sec : example ] we provide a detailed application of this data , by determining stellar mass measurements using a popular sed fitting code to compare the sed derived stellar masses against the simulation based stellar mass determination . in section [ sec : discussion ] and section [ sec : conclusions ] we summarize and conclude .",
    ".list of broadband filters used in the illustris virtual observatory , selected as a reasonably complete sampling of the historical , current and future bands used for the observation of galactic stellar light . [ cols=\"<,^,^ \" , ]      we store integrated global seds for each galaxy under the integratedquantities field .",
    "example seds are shown in figure  [ fig : gal_sed ] for one star - forming blue galaxy ( blue line , id=350781 ) , and one quiescent red galaxy ( red line , id=138415 ) .",
    "both galaxies have stellar masses of @xmath6 .",
    "the galaxies have star formation rates of @xmath7yr ( blue ) and @xmath8yr ( red ) .",
    "while the blue galaxy still has a reservoir of star - forming gas , the red galaxy has quenched its star formation via agn feedback .",
    "the two galaxies have noticeably different sed slopes with the star - forming galaxy having substantially more uv emission .",
    "moreover , since a somewhat significant amount of light in the near ir comes from young stellar populations , an offset in the near ir sed can also be seen .",
    "the fiducial seds do not take into account dust , which implies that the uv luminosities are overestimated due to missing sed attenuation .",
    "this is demonstrated in figure  [ fig : gal_sed ] , where the cyan and magenta lines show the star - forming galaxy s sed when applying the mappings hii region model and the cf00 empirical dust correction , respectively . in both cases , these models reduce the uv luminosity by approximating the obscuration of young stellar spectra . at optical wavelengths , the cf00 model depresses the sed by @xmath9 , while the mappings model is nearly coincident with the pure sb99 spectra .",
    "however , since both galaxies are fairly massive and dominated by older stellar populations which contribute to the near ir light , the offset in the near ir portion of the sed is significantly less noticeable than in the uv .    to present a more complete overview of the synthetic spectra properties ,",
    "we show all 40,000 illustris galaxies by binning in narrow ( 0.01 dex ) stellar mass bins and calculate the median galaxy spectra at each wavelength as a function of galaxy stellar mass in figure  [ fig : two_d_mean_spectra ] .",
    "this figure shows the mean galaxy sed template that applies to our redshift @xmath0 synthetic galaxy spectra as a function of stellar mass .",
    "the intensity of the median nir sed increases smoothly with increasing galaxy stellar mass .",
    "little uv emission from both low- and high - mass galaxies can be identified .",
    "the least massive galaxies produce little uv emission owing to their low star formation rates derived from their position on the star formation main sequence .",
    "the high mass galaxies have low star formation rates owning to quenching from agn feedback in our model .",
    "this view of the data also allows us to pick out several features of the mock spectra easily .",
    "examples include the lyman limit at 912  , balmer break at 4000  , and h@xmath1 emission line at 6563  which are all included in the input sb99 template seds .",
    "departures from the median trends identified in figure  [ fig : two_d_mean_spectra ] can be substantial in the uv part of the spectrum owing to fluctuations in the star formation rates of galaxies  even at similar stellar masses .",
    "this variability is pronounced for high - mass systems ( i.e. @xmath10 ) where quenched and non - quenched galaxies sit in the same stellar mass bins . on the other hand ,",
    "the variability of the median spectra are low for the most massive systems in the nir region owing to their nir luminosities being dominated by old stellar populations .",
    "the median galaxy sed templates for the illustris galaxy population presented in figure  [ fig : two_d_mean_spectra ] do somewhat depend on the adopted choice for the stellar population synthesis model .",
    "we have compared the findings of figure  [ fig : two_d_mean_spectra ] with the bc03-based outputs and found that qualitatively the mass binned median galaxy spectra generated using the bc03 stellar population synthesis models look very similar to those generated using the sb99 procedure .",
    "the main distinction between these models can be seen in their uv spectra . whereas the sb99 models have little or no uv emission from old stellar populations , the bc03 catalogs contain non - negligible uv emission from old stars .",
    "this causes the uv brightness of massive ( quenched ) galaxies to be substantially brighter for the bc03 model . in principle",
    ", this difference also contributes to the uv emission of intermediate mass galaxies ( i.e. @xmath11 ) .",
    "however , since the intermediate mass galaxies have substantial ongoing star formation dominating their uv spectra , any contribution to the uv spectra from old stellar populations is not easily identified .",
    "spatially resolved galaxy images are stored in 36 bands , from which surface brightness maps and color images can be directly produced .",
    "color galaxy images produced from our image pipeline were first presented in figure 13 of  @xcite which shows 42 blue star forming galaxies and 42 red , passive galaxies as viewed through the sdss - g , -r , -i bands using the  @xcite asinh scaling . here",
    "we present additional applications of the broadband images by demonstrating : ( 1 ) the viewing angle dependence of a select set of galaxy types , ( 2 ) the visual appearance of a simulated galaxy in different filters , and ( 3 ) the time evolution of several elliptical galaxies exhibiting stellar shells .",
    "figure  [ fig : multi_angle_disks ] shows rgb color images of two disk galaxies made using the sdss - g , -r , -i bands as seen from three different directions to demonstrate the impact of viewing angle on perceived galactic morphology .",
    "the left ( right ) most image is aligned ( anti - aligned ) with the angular momentum vector for the stars in the galaxy .",
    "the central images uniformly transition between these two polar views .",
    "we note that the full galaxy image catalog contains only four viewing angles for a galaxy , without a guarantee of any of the images being exactly ( anti-)aligned with the rotation axes .",
    "the images presented here have been constructed after manually rotating the orientation of each galaxy to highlight the viewing angle dependence .",
    "while the top galaxy ( id=283832 ) is relatively axisymmetric , the bottom galaxy has a prominent bar ( id=261085 ) .",
    "the observable strength of the bar feature is a function of viewing angle , with the bar appearing strongest when viewed face - on and being completely unidentifiable when the galaxy is seen edge - on .",
    "these mock images could then be used to derive quantitative correction factors for visually classified bar strengths , or to determine what fraction of strongly barred systems would have been classified as having weak bars , or no bars altogether , based on viewing angle .",
    "similar examples of the impact of galaxy viewing angle can be constructed for merging / interacting galaxies  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , bulge - to - disk identification  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and measured isophotal shape of elliptical systems  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .      figure  [ fig : bw_all_bands ] shows an example galaxy as seen through 12 different broadband filters , as labeled within the figure .",
    "each image has been scaled independently using an  asinh \" scaling , with the non - linear transition set to the mean pixel intensity for that band .",
    "bands increase in wavelength from top left to lower right ( effective wavelengths associated with the bands can be found in table  [ table : broadbandfilters ] ) .",
    "the uv bands reveal the emission from young star particles  tracing the location of ongoing star formation in this system .",
    "longer - wavelength bands trace stellar mass more efficiently and exhibit less band - to - band variation .",
    "we note that this particular galaxy ( id=283832 ) was selected because it possesses a large stellar disk ( @xmath12 ) , with moderate levels of ongoing star formation , enabling us to make a clear demonstration of the wavelength - dependent image variation .",
    "this is the largest and most massive disk galaxy in the simulation volume ; only a small fraction of the galaxies in the simulation are as well - resolved as the one presented here .",
    "figure  [ fig : shell_evolution ] shows a time series of rgb images from the rest frame sdss - g , -r , -i bands for three particular galaxies that we visually identify to possess stellar shells at redshift @xmath0 .",
    "we trace these systems back in time using merger trees , identifying the most massive progenitor galaxy at each previous snapshot .",
    "we generate images for a system at every snapshot using a fixed field of view of 120 physical kpc .",
    "we find that merger events occur for all three systems within the past @xmath13gyr , which are then responsible for forming the observed present - day stellar shells .",
    "this is consistent with the established theory of stellar shell formation via major  @xcite and minor  @xcite mergers .    to identify the shell locations , we make monochromatic images of these systems in the johnson - k band ( as a good representation of the stellar mass ) and apply an unsharp mask procedure . in detail , we convolve the original image with a two dimensional gaussian with a standard deviation of 5 pixels .",
    "we then subtract the gaussian blurred image from the original image , and discard all negative pixels to specifically highlight stellar light excesses relative to the blurred image .",
    "the resulting masked image is shown in figure  [ fig : unsharp_mask_shell_evolution ] using a logarithmic stretch . all high frequency image contributions ",
    "including noise from the discrete particle representation of stellar mass  are amplified in the masked image . as a result",
    ", the shells are more easily distinguished from the smoothly varying light component . using the masked images",
    ", we identify the stellar shells down to fairly low galactocentric radii with @xmath133 - 5 shells being visually apparent in the systems at redshift z=0 .",
    "stellar shells have been observed at low galactocentric radius using similar image masking techniques  ( see * ? ? ? * for a detailed description ) .",
    "we have confirmed the presence of low radii stellar shells by examination of a radial velocity versus radius phase diagram .",
    "the presence of multiple systems with layered stellar shells in our cosmological simulation is of interest since the majority of previous theoretical work studying the evolution and characteristics of stellar shells formed via mergers has been done either with idealized merger simulations  @xcite or with dark matter only cosmological simulations  ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "since these systems are realized here within the full cosmological context , we can address some previously inaccessible questions , including : ( i ) the origin of very tightly bound shells , ( ii ) the observability lifetime of shells and other tidal features following merger events , and ( iii ) the predicted frequency of visible shells in the galaxy population . a deeper exploration into these topics using the illustris simulation and images presented here",
    "is deferred to a separate , targeted study .",
    "[ sec : stellarmass ]    an examination of the distribution of galaxies of various morphological types as a function of mass , the morphology - environment relation , and the role of mergers in driving morphological evolution will be considered elsewhere ( snyder et al . , in prep . ) . here",
    "we investigate a related problem which can be attacked with the image pipeline catalog : the accuracy of stellar mass estimates based on broadband photometric fitting .",
    "the simple question we ask is : how well do broadband fitting routines recover the stellar mass from the simulations ?",
    "similar topics have been addressed using semi - analytic models  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and idealized hydrodynamical simulations  @xcite .    for observational data , stellar masses are often determined by applying one of a few commonly adopted functional forms for the star formation history and finding the best - fitting stellar mass , galaxy age , star formation timescale , dust attenuation parameters , and metallicity to the observed sed .",
    "one common assumption is an exponentially declining star formation history which is characterized by two free parameters : the galaxy formation time and the star formation timescale .",
    "the simplest method for constraining these parameters is to perform a chi - squared minimization of the observed sed or broadband photometry relative to a grid of mock seds which uniformly cover the parameter space .",
    "this is the general approach that is taken in , e.g. , fast  @xcite .    to perform this exercise",
    "we assign light to a galaxy based on a stellar population synthesis template ( e.g. , the sb99 model ) , and then use the same ( or a similar ) stellar population synthesis model to find a best fit to the sed .",
    "one might therefore worry that this is a circular argument , which will not shed any light on the validity of  true \" galaxy mass estimates .",
    "however , the star formation history and heavy element composition for our simulated galaxies is known and properly reflected in the integrated galaxy sed , while the observational models must assume a functional form for the star formation history and metallicity .",
    "the discrepancy leads , in fact , to the two recommendations for improved stellar mass determination , described below .    to make the comparison as clear and idealized as possible",
    ", we neglect dust in the simulated galaxy seds , and force fast to neglect dust obscuration as well ( i.e. set @xmath14 ) .",
    "neglecting dust removes a large age / dust degeneracy which is present in real extragalactic data and mass measurements .",
    "furthermore , we ignore dust re - radiation at long wavelengths  which would add uncertainty into both our models and model sed fitting .",
    "finally , we have not included any photometric and/or distance related errors in the galaxy s positioning .",
    "we assume that we know a galaxy s distance exactly ( without error ) , and assign apparent magnitudes in each band appropriately .",
    "owing to these simplifying assumptions , the comparisons that we perform below are highly idealized .",
    "we expect that introducing any additional sed complications ( dust , distance errors , etc . ) would bring the derived stellar masses into worse agreement than what we present below because there would be additional characteristics of the intrinsic galaxy seds that are not fully accounted for by fast .",
    "because of these simplifying assumptions , we will show below that we can obtain relatively good mass estimates for our mock galaxies based on their mock seds using only 5 bands .",
    "however , we find that restricting the allowable age range and metallicity values that fast is permitted to sample can improve the derived stellar mass errors .",
    "we employ the code fast  @xcite to fit stellar population synthesis models to the artificially generated image pipeline broadband photometry .",
    "we assume an exponentially declining star formation history ( @xmath15 ) to determine stellar masses based on the stellar - light - only galaxy photometry from the image pipeline .",
    "for the initial comparison , we allow fast to select from the full range of input sed possibilities .",
    "specifically , the galaxy age is taken in the range @xmath16 years with logarithmic steps of @xmath17 dex , the star formation timescale is chosen in the range @xmath18 years with logarithmic steps of @xmath19 dex , and the metallicity is selected from @xmath20 $ ] .",
    "the mock galaxy photometry uses the sb99 templates while fast uses the bc03 templates .",
    "we ignore dust attenuation in the mock photometry and restrict fast fits to neglect attenuation as well .",
    "fast input files are generated by calculating rest - frame broadband fluxes for the five sdss bands ( u , g , r , i , z ) converted to units of flux density assuming the galaxies are at redshift @xmath21 using the same cosmology employed in the illustris simulation .",
    "although fast has the ability to determine spectroscopic / photometric redshifts , in our initial comparison we supply correct redshifts to fast to avoid errors .",
    "we compare the stellar mass derived from fast ( hereafter fast mass ) against the simulation determined stellar mass found in the subfind galaxy catalog ( hereafter subfind mass ) for all galaxies with integrated spectra in the image pipeline .",
    "the left panel of figure  [ fig : fast_masses ] shows a two dimensional histogram indicating the relationship between fast photometrically derived stellar mass and the subfind tabulated stellar mass for all 41,517 galaxies with more than 500 star particles at redshift @xmath0 .",
    "the black line indicates a perfect 1:1 relationship ( i.e. the fast masses exactly equal the subfind masses ) . there is a tight relationship between these two quantities that nearly follows the ideal 1:1 scaling , with a slight offset and scatter . out of the 41,517 galaxies for which we perform this fitting , 1755 ( 4% ) disagree by more than a factor of two and 10 ( 0.02% ) disagree by more than a factor of five .",
    "we calculated the average ( median ) star formation rate histories for galaxies in a mass bin ( @xmath22 < 10^{10}$ ] ) for several log(m@xmath23/ m@xmath24 ) values .",
    "the resulting plot is shown in figure  [ fig : delta_sfr_hist ] and can be used to partially determine what drives the fast mass estimate .",
    "the median star formation histories evolve with this `` mass error '' parameter .",
    "galaxies with the lowest mass error parameter , which correspond to galaxies whose masses have been most severely underestimated , have the oldest stellar populations and earliest peak in their sfr histories .",
    "galaxies with old stellar populations will have the largest mass - to - light ratios , which drives their systematically underestimated stellar masses if fast does not choose a suitably large galaxy age . moving toward larger ( and positive ) mass error parameters",
    "we find that the average sfr history becomes biased toward later times and the present day star formation rate monotonically increases .",
    "for the most extreme positive mass error parameters , we find that they are heavily peaked toward very recent star formation .",
    "the most extreme objects have either very early or late formation histories which are not captured in the fast best fit parameters .",
    "the left panel of figure  [ fig : fast_sub_ages ] shows the stellar half mass assembly time .",
    "this can be compared against the center panel of figure  [ fig : fast_sub_ages ] which shows the stellar half mass assembly time based on the assumed fast star formation history . in general the two distributions",
    "look very different .",
    "the fast age values span a larger range than found in subfind .",
    "we plot the ratio of the subfind age to the fast age in the right panel of figure  [ fig : fast_sub_ages ] as a function of galaxy mass .",
    "there is significant scatter in this relation that is fairly mass dependent , with massive galaxies being assigned more accurate age estimates than low mass systems .",
    "this mis - estimation of galaxy formation times can cause problems for the inferred mass - to - light ratios .",
    "< 10^{10}$ ] are shown for galaxies .",
    "the lines indicates the median star formation history for 50 galaxies with a mass error @xmath25m@xmath26= log(m@xmath23/ m@xmath24 ) closest to the prescribed value in the plot legend .",
    "galaxies with underestimated stellar masses have systematically older stellar populations . , width=312 ]            the right panel of figure  [ fig : fast_masses ] shows the ratio of the fast masses to the subfind masses as a function of the subfind mass , which helps to identify some residual trends in the derived fast masses . there is a mass dependence in the average fast mass offset and scatter which can be ascertained from the distribution of galaxies outlined by the contour lines . we find that a principle origin of the mass dependent offset and scatter is the discrete and sparsely sampled metallicity values in the fast bc03 stellar population synthesis templates .",
    "the standard bc03 templates used in fast draw from discrete metallicities values of @xmath20 $ ] without interpolation , and the result is a discrete jump in the derived stellar masses depending on which template metallicity is applied .",
    "the left panel of figure  [ fig : fast_metallicities ] shows the average ( mean ) template metallicity that fast applied to galaxies in each pixel .",
    "since fast is forced to pick one of these sparsely populated metallicity values , the derived galaxy mass offsets correlate directly with different fast metallicity values .",
    "the right panel of figure  [ fig : fast_metallicities ] shows the mass weighted average stellar metallicity for these same galaxies .",
    "we can gather from this plot that , even in this highly idealized experiment , fast is not able to accurately determine a galaxy s metallicity when using only 5 broadband filters . moreover , allowing for fast to assign metallicity values to each galaxy independently results in galaxies of similar intrinsic mass being assigned factor of @xmath27 different stellar mass estimates .",
    "we have further checked  and we discuss in section [ sec : fixed_metallicity ]  that if we restrict fast to using only a single metallicity ( @xmath28 ) template , all derived galaxy masses fall along a single continuous relation , albeit with an offset from the desired @xmath29 relation .",
    "here we re - compute fast masses by employing delayed or single - burst star formation histories .",
    "both the delayed and single burst star formation histories are described by two parameters : a galaxy formation time and star formation timescale , @xmath30 . the galaxy formation time gives the lookback time when the galaxy started forming stars ( i.e. for all times before this , the star formation rate is assumed to be zero ) . in the case of the delayed star formation history ( @xmath31 ) ,",
    "the star formation timescale modulates the decay timescale for the late time star formation rate decline . in the case of the single burst star formation history ,",
    "the star formation rate is assumed to be constant after the galaxy formation time for one star formation timescale , after which it drops back to zero ( @xmath32 for @xmath33 ) .",
    "figure  [ fig : fast_alt_sfr ] shows the ratio of the fast mass to the subfind mass as a function of the subfind mass for the delayed star formation history ( left ) and single burst star formation history ( right ) .",
    "the distribution of galaxies in the delayed star formation history space looks similar to what was found for the previously assumed exponential star formation history . by examining a number of  best fit \" star formation histories from the exponential and delayed models ,",
    "we find that fast prefers very similar ( and young ) star formation history in many cases , explaining why the distribution of derived galaxy masses is so similar .",
    "the distribution of derived galaxy masses for the single burst star formation rate history is more complex .",
    "figure  [ fig : fast_tru_t_and_z ] show the average metallicity ( left ) and age ( right ) .",
    "there are three metallicities assigned to galaxies , causing mass estimate continuity issues as discussed above .",
    "the metallicity alone can not explain the large spread in the galaxy population at @xmath34 .",
    "the right panel of figure  [ fig : fast_tru_t_and_z ] shows that there is a large age gradient , where the location along this gradient determines a galaxy s fast mass relative to the intrinsic subfind mass .",
    "galaxies that are assigned old ages ( and long star formation timescales ) yield larger derived mass estimates ( owing to their larger mass - to - light ratios ) .",
    "the origin of the large age spread for the low - mass galaxy population likely arises from the diversity of recent star formation histories of these low mass systems , which can substantially impact the best fit sed that fast selects .",
    "it has been found , for instance , that when bursty systems are fit with single - component sfhs , their stellar masses can be significantly underestimated  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "regardless of the underlying cause , we conclude that when fast assigns a very young age to a galaxy it is likely that the galaxy s mass will be underestimated .      in the previous subsections",
    ", we have found that allowing fast to pick a galaxy s metallicity during the sed fitting process can lead to mass - dependent errors in the derived galaxy masses .",
    "here we re - compute fast masses while holding the assumed metallicity fixed at @xmath28 ( i.e. solar metallicity ) .",
    "this is a commonly adopted assumption when deriving stellar masses for real observational data  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the ratio of the fast mass to the subfind mass as a function of the subfind mass for a fixed metallicity with an assumed exponential star formation rate history is shown in the left panel of figure  [ fig : fast_fixed_metallicity ] .",
    "there is an offset between the derived mass and the intrinsic mass that evolves with intrinsic mass .",
    "this trend is stronger than what was found when the metallicity was allowed to vary ( figure  [ fig : fast_masses ] ) . at the low mass end ,",
    "the systematic error in the estimated mass is @xmath35 dex , while the scatter about this value is roughly @xmath36 dex .",
    "employing a fixed metallicity provides a more continuous and less broad distribution of mass estimates with respect to the intrinsic mass . in particular , holding the metallicity fixed in the fast calculation reduces some of the variation in the mass ratios previously found in section [ sec : fast ] .",
    "however , the estimated mass error shows a clear mass dependent offset from the intrinsic mass and there is still substantial scatter in the derived masses .",
    "the right hand panel of figure  [ fig : fast_fixed_metallicity ] shows the average age that fast has assigned to each galaxy .",
    "for all exercises up until this point , we have allowed the fast age selection to be selected from @xmath16 years .",
    "examining fast s selection for the derived galaxy age value , there is a very clear residual trend where fast underestimates the mass of a galaxy when it assigns a young age ( i.e. @xmath37 years ) to that galaxy .",
    "this is consistent with recent findings in the literature that young galaxy age assignment values can lead to underestimates in the stellar mass  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .",
    "in an attempt to improve the accuracy of the estimated masses , we restrict the galaxy age range from which fast can select to @xmath38 years .",
    "the resulting ratio of the fast mass to the subfind mass as a function of the subfind mass ( still for a fixed metallicity with an assumed exponential star formation rate history ) is shown in figure  [ fig : fast_age_restriction ] .",
    "this case has the lowest systematic offset , mass dependence , and scatter in the estimated mass error of all of the cases presented in this paper .",
    "the origin of this reduced bias is fairly clear : a relatively low mass of recently formed stars ( say , @xmath39 of a galaxy s total stellar mass ) can contribute substantially to the integrated sed  especially at short wavelengths  forcing fast to assume a relatively young age for galaxy as a whole when only a single exponential star formation rate history is assumed . by restricting the minimum galaxy age to be @xmath40 years",
    ", we effectively prevent low galaxy ages ( with correspondingly low mass - to - light ratios ) from being assigned .",
    "we would therefore encourage caution when allowing a single galaxy age parameter to vary in an unconstrained manner , when determining the stellar masses of real systems . for redshift @xmath0",
    "we find that a lower age bound of @xmath41 years works well for our simulated galaxies .",
    "however , this value will need to be lowered for high redshift galaxies .",
    "it is also possible that this issue could be solved by adopting multi - component star formation histories ( e.g. , an exponential with superimposed bursts * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .",
    "in this subsection we apply the fast broadband fitting procedure to spatially resolved galaxy images . by performing the fitting procedure in each pixel",
    "we estimate the resolved surface density distribution which contains information about the dynamical state of the system as predicted by the simulation .",
    "we first perform this analysis on the idealized image of a single redshift @xmath0 galaxy without applying any restrictions on the fast best fit parameters .",
    "the central panel of figure  [ fig : gal_1_fast ] shows the stellar mass surface density as derived from applying fast to each pixel of the image . for reference , the projected stellar surface density taken directly from the simulation for this galaxy is shown in the left panel of figure  [ fig : gal_1_fast ] .",
    "this galaxy ( id=283832 ) possesses a radially declining surface density profile as seen in the left panel of figure  [ fig : gal_1_fast ] .",
    "the stellar surface density profile is recovered in the fast analysis , with some detailed differences .",
    "we find  holes \" in the fast stellar mass surface density profiles which are present in pixels which have significant contributions from young star particles .",
    "these pixels are assigned young ages owing to the influence of the luminous young stellar population despite the fact that the majority of the mass in these areas is characterized by an older average age .",
    "the low mass - to - light ratios associated with the young stellar ages result in an underestimation of the stellar mass surface density in these regions .",
    "we next restrict the fast best fit parameters based on the minimum age and fixed metallicity criteria that we prescribe in the previous section .",
    "the right panel of figure  [ fig : gal_1_fast ] shows the stellar mass surface density map derived from fast when we restrict the minimum stellar age to @xmath40 years and fix the stellar metallicity to solar .",
    "the derived stellar mass surface density map is qualitatively similar to that shown in the central panel of figure  [ fig : gal_1_fast ] , with the surface density holes being somewhat less pronounced . because there are no pixels in this particular galaxy image which are mass dominated by young stellar populations we find that applying the minimum stellar age objectively improves the derived stellar mass surface density map . applying a fixed metallicity impacts the derived stellar mass surface density maps at the @xmath130.1 dex level , which is subdominant compared to the adopted age .",
    "the illustris simulation observatory presented in this paper is a large mock galaxy image catalog constructed directly from a hydrodynamical simulation . in the past ,",
    "large mock galaxy catalogs have been produced by applying semi - analytic models of galaxy formation to the output of dark matter only simulations  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the approach used in the mrobs is to assign light to a bulge and disk component of a galaxy separately based on assumptions about their radial surface brightness profiles by using the bulge - to - total ratio , bulge half light radius , and disk scale height  @xcite .",
    "these galactic light components are then included in images by assuming a sky position angle and inclination .",
    "after projecting all galaxies from a conic observational volume onto an image , point spread functions taken from the appropriate instruments are applied to yield mock light cones that compare against real observations favorably  @xcite .",
    "while these models have the advantage that they can be run on very large simulated volumes  allowing them to produce mock light - cones and mock survey data  they can only indirectly take into account the role that galactic dynamics ( e.g. , galaxy bar formation , major / minor mergers , disk instabilities , etc . ) play in morphological evolution .",
    "in contrast , hydrodynamic simulations model gas processes and internal galactic dynamics self - consistently down to the gravitational softening limit . the resulting sample of simulated galaxies can therefore be directly converted into synthetic images which encode information about the stellar age distribution , stellar metallicity distribution , and stellar spatial distribution .",
    "no further assumptions need to be made in order to generate a galaxy image .",
    "the resulting light distribution from galaxies may therefore end up as disk - dominated , bulge - dominated , irregular , or highly asymmetric as dictated by the formation history and internal galactic dynamics of each system . in this paper",
    "we have limited our focused to the construction of idealized images . in a companion paper , snyder et al . , ( in prep ) outlines our steps for adding image realism to the idealized galaxy images presented in this paper .",
    "specifically , after creating the idealized images one can in post - processing rebin the images to an appropriate pixel scale , convolve with a point spread function , add background images or noise at a level consistent with a given instrument and exposure time .",
    "analysis of the idealized images presented in this paper after being put through such post - processing steps will be soon presented in a companion paper ( snyder et al .",
    ", in prep ) .",
    "a series of important limitations need to be considered in order to properly exploit the illustris output",
    ". an incomplete list of these is as follows :",
    "the redshift @xmath0 gravitational softening length in the simulation is @xmath42 kpc , making small systems and small - scale features within large systems poorly resolved .",
    "while we do observe barred galaxies formed during merger / flyby events , force softening can suppress disk instabilities and bar formation in non - interacting galaxies  @xcite .",
    "this can lead to a low fraction of barred systems , and potentially modulate the efficiency of stellar bulge formation ( to the extent that bars help drive bulge formation ) .",
    "2 .   the mass resolution of our models may impact results , particularly for low mass galaxies .",
    "given our gas / star particle mass resolution of @xmath43 , young stellar populations will be stochastically sampled with a small number of particles .",
    "this has been shown in the past to potentially bias non - parametric fitting parameters , such as the gini coefficient  @xcite .",
    "3 .   our current models make use of a pressurized equation of state to handle the multi - phase ism in a sub - grid fashion  @xcite .",
    "features that are expected to exist in a true multiphase ism , such as spiral arm structure driven by pressure waves , will not be properly captured .",
    "some simulated galaxies  such as the disk galaxies presented in figure  [ fig : multi_angle_disks ]  do show signs of spiral features .",
    "however , this spiral arm structure is driven by swing amplification  @xcite of perturbations to the halo potential caused by the representation of dark matter by discrete simulation particles  @xcite .",
    "4 .   our assumed physics ( and specifically our feedback implementation ) can influence galaxy morphology .",
    "we find , for instance , a number of galaxies with enhanced rings of star formation in our simulation , which are likely caused by the interaction of star formation driven winds with the dense galactic ism .",
    "the presence of these rings and/or the specific feedback formulation used in our model may influence visual and automated galaxy morphology classification or galaxy size growth .",
    "our mock images and seds do not contain consider detailed radiation transfer .",
    "the kilo parsec scale spatial resolution of the illustris simulation is slightly too coarse to carry out self - consistent dust modeling .",
    "we have applied simple empirical corrections based on the cf00 model to the galaxy seds .",
    "analysis of any systems spatial light distributions and/or sed properties where dust is expected to play a major role should therefore use caution .    keeping in mind these caveats",
    ", we still expect the illustris simulation observatory to be a useful and reliable resource in many situations , including : ( i ) addressing issues that can not be accessed with real data ( e.g. the viewing angle dependence of galaxy morphology and time evolution of galactic features ) , ( ii ) studying situations where the internal galaxy dynamics governing the spatial distribution of stars is of the essence ( e.g. in the formation and evolution of stellar shells or the viewing angle dependence of bar classification , as explored briefly in this paper ) , and ( iii ) where the full hydro simulation approach of the illustris simulation is likely robust ( e.g. for the formation of bars via mergers / interactions , the observability timescales for galaxy pairs and tidal features , the puffing up of massive galaxies via dry mergers , the formation of disk galaxies via in - situ star formation , etc . ) .",
    "moreover , using an even - handed determination of galaxy morphology based on synthetic images will help us further identify the environments and mass ranges where our simulated galaxy populations are successfully or poorly replicating observations ( snyder et al .",
    ", in prep ) .",
    "we expect that the illustris simulation observatory will be an evolving resource , not only for the current illustris simulation , but also for next generation simulations with higher resolution , larger volume , and more sophisticated physics implementations .",
    "the main goal of this paper is the presentation of a large synthetic galaxy image catalog based on a high - resolution full - volume cosmological hydrodynamical simulation .",
    "we described our method for building this image catalog , in particular , the assignment of stellar light to each star particle within a galaxy .",
    "we have made @xmath137,000 galaxy images in 36 broadbands plus integrated seds for @xmath1340,000 systems .",
    "we have demonstrated that these broadband images can be used to generate high quality galaxy images .",
    "our intention when constructing this mock galaxy image database is that it may serve as a useful tool for observers in the interpretation of extragalactic data . in principle",
    ", the fits file format of our mock galaxy images will make it easy to process these images with existing image analysis tools , similar to what was done in  @xcite .",
    "this should facilitate galaxy selection from our catalog using selection criteria matched to observational targets .",
    "it also implies that spatially resolved galaxy properties ( e.g. , half - light - radii , bulge - to - disk ratios , etc . ) can be derived using un - modified photometric image decomposition or fitting techniques .    as a first application",
    ", we showed that the sed fitting code fast is able to derive the `` correct '' galaxy mass within a factor of 2 for @xmath4495% of galaxies in our idealized sample .",
    "we also uncovered some residual trends in the stellar mass estimates and argued that sparsely populated stellar population synthesis template metallicity values and low galaxy age assignments are responsible for the majority of the error in the photometrically derived galaxy mass values .",
    "although our idealized comparison can not address systematic uncertainties such as the dependence of the mass - to - light ratio for a galaxy population on the shape of the imf , we have used our mock image pipeline to show that , overall , fast is able to derive reasonably accurate galaxy stellar masses for complex star formation histories using a relatively simple assumption for those histories .",
    "we concluded that , for redshift @xmath0 , employing a lower age bound of @xmath41 years with a fixed solar metallicity produces the smallest errors in the stellar mass determination .",
    "several additional applications of the mock image pipeline are currently under way .",
    "we are undertaking automated non - parametric measurements of galaxy morphology for direct comparison with survey data ( snyder et al .",
    ", in prep ) . among other goals , this will allow us to quantitatively assess the extent to which the morphological mix of the simulated galaxies match reality .",
    "visual classification of the galaxy population for galaxies with @xmath45 stellar particles is also planned .",
    "this selection criterion results in a sample of @xmath131000 galaxies with stellar masses @xmath46 , which we have verified contains a mix of both disks and elliptical systems .",
    "visual classification is an alternative to the automated non - parametric classifications , and enables us to directly address whether , for example , the disk - to - elliptical fraction for simulated galaxies is comparable to the values measured from sdss in galaxyzoo  @xcite .    by making a fair comparison between cosmological simulations and large galaxy surveys , we can begin to connect theoretical ideas on the origins of galaxy structure with actual observations in ever more accurate ways .",
    "the role that simulations play in shaping our understanding of galaxy formation will continue to increase as the models become increasingly more detailed and physically accurate . comparing the detailed structure and properties of individual galaxies  within the context of their larger populations ",
    "is an important point of overlap between theory and observation , and mock catalogs based on realistic , synthetic observations of simulated systems are a fundamental requisite for maximizing the insight gained from that overlap .",
    "we thank dave sanders and arjun dey for helpful suggestions on this work .",
    "we thank patrik jonsson for his significant efforts to write , develop , and support the sunrise code .",
    "gs acknowledges support from the hst grants program , number hst- ar-12856.01-a .",
    "support for program # 12856 ( pi lotz ) was provided by nasa through a grant from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "cch is grateful to the klaus tschira foundation for financial support and acknowledges the hospitality of the aspen center for physics , which is supported by the national science foundation grant no .",
    "vs acknowledges support by the dfg research centre sfb-881 the milky way system through project a1 , and by the european research council under erc - stg exagal-308037 .",
    "lh acknowledges support from nasa grant nnx12ac67 g and nsf grant ast-1312095 .                                                                                                                                            , g. , & springel , v. 2006 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol . 351 , astronomical data analysis software and systems xv , ed .",
    "c.  gabriel , c.  arviset , d.  ponz , & s.  enrique , 212"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present our methods for generating a catalog of 7,000 synthetic images and 40,000 integrated spectra of redshift @xmath0 galaxies from the illustris simulation . </S>",
    "<S> the mock data products are produced by using stellar population synthesis models to assign spectral energy distributions ( sed ) to each star particle in the galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting synthetic images and integrated seds therefore properly reflect the spatial distribution , stellar metallicity distribution , and star formation history of the galaxies . from the synthetic data products it is possible to produce monochromatic or color - composite images , perform sed fitting , classify morphology , determine galaxy structural properties , and evaluate the impacts of galaxy viewing angle . </S>",
    "<S> the main contribution of this paper is to describe the production , format , and composition of the image catalog that makes up the illustris simulation obsevatory . as a demonstration of this resource , </S>",
    "<S> we derive galactic stellar mass estimates by applying the sed fitting code fast to the synthetic galaxy products , and compare the derived stellar masses against the true stellar masses from the simulation . </S>",
    "<S> we find from this idealized experiment that systematic biases exist in the photometrically derived stellar mass values that can be reduced by using a fixed metallicity in conjunction with a minimum galaxy age restriction .    </S>",
    "<S> methods : numerical  cosmology : theory  cosmology : galaxy formation </S>"
  ]
}