{
  "article_text": [
    "the sunspot oscillations , as measured in the photosphere , show broad range of frequencies that peak at 3  mhz ( period of approx . 5  min ) .",
    "they are generally coherent over a large fraction of the sunspot umbra and five minute p - modes may propagate completely across the entire sunspot . moreover , there are indications that the oscillations proceed in 20  40  min long wave trains the origin of which is not well understood .",
    "oscillations of the sunspot umbra as measured chromospheric lines show major peak around 5 mhz ( period of 3  min ) and amplitudes of several kilometers per second . they are thought to represent various magneto - hydrodynamic waves propagating within the sunspot and thought to be generated by sunspot oscillations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "there is a small time lag in the oscillatory patterns measured at different altitudes , which is consistent with the general picture of waves propagating up from the photosphere to the base of the corona ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "although the energy flux associated with with 3  min oscillations appears be too low to maintain the observed temperature of coronal loops @xcite , and later showed that when the entire spectrum of propagating slow magneto - acoustic waves is considered then they could provide energy flux sufficient to account for heating of active region loops .",
    "for comprehensive review of sunspot oscillations reader is referred to papers by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "it was found that the intensity of coronal loops associated with plage areas display periods of the order of 321 @xmath1 74 s , whereas sunspot loops oscillate with periods of the order of 172 @xmath1 32 s , which indicates that photospheric oscillations above a sunspot have the ability to propagate through the transition region ( tr ) and into the corona .",
    "@xcite suggested that the propagating waves may modulate magnetic reconnections between the loops thus driving high - speed outflows along the loops .",
    "velocities of disturbances propagating along the sunspot loops appear to be temperature dependent indicating the slow magneto - acoustic nature of the propagating waves . in the corona",
    "the oscillations are limited to small regions that often coincide with the endpoints of sunspot coronal loops @xcite and show no signs of the resonances @xcite predicted by the chromospheric resonator theories @xcite .",
    "sunspot oscillations also manifest themselves via umbral flashes ( ufs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which are emissions in the core of chromospheric lines caused by upward propagating waves steepening into shocks @xcite .",
    "the temperature in ufs may exceed the surrounding values by up to 1000k and fluctuations of umbral fields are possible on sub - arcsecond scales , although the field inclination and the overall magnetic configurations does not seem to change .",
    "@xcite recently reported on observations of very small scale ( height @xmath2  1 mm , width @xmath2 0.1  mm ) jet - like structures in the sunspot umbra that thought to be driven by sunspot oscillations .",
    "@xcite suggested may be a sunspot version of short dynamic fibrils observed in plage areas . observed density and field oscillations",
    "further support the idea of possible slow mode wave propagation in the atmosphere above sunspot s umbra .    in this study",
    "we analyse data from the space based interface region imaging spectrograph ( iris ) and the new solar telescope ( nst ) operating the big bear solar observatory ( bbso ) to better understand the fine structure of chromospheric umbral oscillations , the structure and evolution of umbral flashes and shocks .",
    "we analysed nst @xcite and iris @xcite data acquired during joint iris - bbso - dst observations on 2 september 2013 .",
    "this was a medium sit - and - stare iris data set with the slit crossing the center of the umbra of the main sunspot in noaa ar 11836 .",
    "the iris observing run began at 16:39 ut and lasted for about 100 min .",
    "the pixel size of the data is 0@xmath3.167 and the time cadence was 3  s and 12  s for spectral and slit - jaw data , correspondingly .",
    "in this study we used calibrated level 2 data available online .",
    "the same iris data set was used for studying shocks in the upper chromosphere and the tr above the sunspot by @xcite .",
    "we utilized spectra and slit - jaw images obtained using mg ii 2796.35  and si iv 1393.76  spectral lines , which form in the chromosphere ( formation temperature 10@xmath4  k ) and middle of the transition region ( tr , 10@xmath5  k ) , respectively .",
    "this data set also includes series of images from atmospheric imaging assembly on board of solar dynamic observatory ( sdo / aia ) @xcite .",
    "the nst data were acquired with the aid of the 308 sub - aperture adaptive optics ( ao-308 ) and span the same time interval as iris observations .",
    "time series of broadband ( 10 ) images of the photosphere were taken with a tio filter ( 7057 , time cadence 15  s , pixel scale 0@xmath3.0375 ) .",
    "this absorption line ( the head of the tio @xmath6-system ) is only formed at low temperatures below 4000  k , and is well suitable for observing sunspot umbra , where the temperatures are significantly lower .",
    "we also utilized available series of narrow - band h@xmath0 ( 6563 ) images taken at @xmath1 0.8 , @xmath1 0.4 , and 0.0  from the line center acquired with nst s visible imaging spectrometer ( vis , pixel size of 0@xmath3.029 ) , which combines a 5  interference filter with a fabry - prot etalon to produce a resulting bandpass of 0.07  over a 70@xmath3 @xmath7 70@xmath3 field of view .",
    "the difference in the acquisition time at two sequential line positions ( e.g , + 0.4  and -0.4 ) was about 2  s. the five point line scan was recorded every 23  s. at each line position we acquired a burst of 25 images with the exposure times ranging from 12  ms at @xmath10.8  to 25  ms at the line center .",
    "the bursts were then speckle reconstructed @xcite .",
    "in @xcite we have estimated that the errors introduced by local misalignment and residual seeing into measurements at each line position ranges from 2% to 9% with the average of 5% .",
    "we found that vis h@xmath0 + 0.8  and iris mg ii 2796.35  images are best suitable for co - aligning the nst and iris data sets .",
    "we estimate the maximum error of co - alignment to be about 0@xmath3.5 ( 3 iris pixels ) .",
    "the co - alignment was performed manually using prominent features in the umbra and several brightening events outside the sunspot .",
    "iris images and spectra were co - aligned using the fiducial line on the slit .    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]     finally , in figure [ nst_iris_ufs ] we compare an h@xmath0  doppler map ( left ) generated by subtracting an h@xmath0 + 0.4   image from the corresponding blue wing image to the nearly co - temporal iris mg ii k slit - jaw image ( right ) .",
    "the purpose of this comparison is to make a connection between the ufs seen in h@xmath0  and iris data .",
    "the arrows in both panels indicate the location of the uf lane discussed in figure [ ha_ufs ] , while the two broken lines mark the position of diffuse mg ii k ufs . although these mg ii k ufs are not high contrast features they were clearly identified from a movie of the slit - jaw images .",
    "it turns out that the mg ii k flashes are co - spatial with locations of red - shifted phase of h@xmath0  shock waves , i.e. , times when the shocked plasma was falling down and the h@xmath0  line was red - shifted .",
    "note , that the iris ufs are somewhat delayed relative to the corresponding h@xmath0  features , which can be explained by the time difference between the two images . in the next iris image taken at 17:25:29  ut the ufs are already further away from the sunspot center and better coincide with the h@xmath0  features , however , their contrast is too low to be reproduced in a figure .",
    "we note that the two red - shifted h@xmath0  arches and the mg ii k ufs marked by the broken lines are co - spatial with the r2 arch in figure [ ufs ] and the umbra - penumbra boundary , respectively .",
    "moreover , similarly to h@xmath0  ufs , the mg ii k flashes , when observed away from the light bridges , appear much weaker and harder to track , thus further confirming our earlier suggestion about possible importance of the lbs in formation and/or enhancement of shocks .",
    "iris and nst spectral data further confirm the idea of upward propagating magneto acoustic waves , which has been reported earlier by a number of observers .",
    "the average time lag between the arrival times of the shocks at the mg ii k and si iv line formation levels , determined from a cross correlation analysis of 100  min long time profiles of blue wing intensities , was found to be about 15  s. we find , however , that this lag is highly dependent on the selection of the correlated segments and peak to peak delay may range from 40  s to zero . analyzing a 100  min long time profile",
    "we find that the intensity of chromospheric shocks above the sunspot s umbra may vary on large time scales of order of 20  min .",
    "however , the available data set was obviously too short to make more confident conclusions .",
    "these long period waves may have internal or external ( relative to a sunspot ) origin .",
    "one may speculate that the modulation may arise from a hysteresis effect , where the current physical conditions of the shocked plasma are defined not only by the currently propagating shock but also by the previous history of plasma heated by passing shocks .",
    "as shocks constantly push the chromosphere up , not all the plasma may timely fall back to the initial state by the time the next one arrives , which may lead to a temporarily slightly over - inflated chromosphere .",
    "when the critical mass that can no longer be supported by shock waves is accumulated , it falls back suppressing the upwardly moving shocks ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "an alternative external cause for the irregular beat may be the sub - photospheric interaction of the upward propagating fast magneto - acoustic waves and those reflected at the photosphere back into the convective zone as discussed by @xcite .",
    "these effects may have a global influence on the sunspot causing 18 - 24  min oscillations in evershed flows @xcite , 18  min periodicities at the chromospheric layers that were concentrated at the outer penumbra , chromospheric flows above sunspot ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as upward wave propagation .",
    "nst s h@xmath0  data showed that bright ufs prefer to be located near lbs and clusters of uds .",
    "this is a new and significant finding , indicating that although magneto - acoustic waves are present everywhere inside the umbra , the effectiveness of uf production may depend on the non - uniformity in the umbra s magneto - convection properties and magnetic fields .",
    "this inference agrees with conclusion that there are umbral areas with slightly different physical and/or magnetic field conditions .",
    "this preference for ufs to be linked to lbs and ud clusters may be explained as follows .",
    "the uds and lbs are known to have weaker magnetic fields as compared to the dark umbra dotted only with small , dim and barely discernible uds .",
    "therefore they are thought to be surrounded by casp - like fields with a horizontal field gradient @xcite .",
    "@xcite found that the shock formation depends on the vertical gradient of alfven speed , @xmath8 , in the medium .",
    "in particular , if @xmath8 , decreases with height then shocks form more effectively .",
    "such conditions are met either in rapidly expanding vertical flux tubes and/or near edges of flux tubes , where fields may become mostly horizontal . in sunspot umbra , such conditions exist near lbs and ud clusters , which are considered field - free structures . in this case",
    "adjacent umbral fields expand into the atmosphere above these features thus creating a narrow lane of negative vertical gradient of @xmath8 with favourable conditions for formation of chromospheric shocks .",
    "the observations show that ufs tend to appear on the sunspot - center side of lbs .",
    "such dynamics suggests that they may be linked to a presumed horizontal trans - umbral wave that causes ufs to sequentially appear at progressively distant light bridges . according to @xcite simulations of magneto - acoustic waves in sunspots using a 3d nonlinear mhd code",
    ", we speculate that we might be dealing with a compact sub - photospheric driver of oscillations as opposed to photospheric oscillations being coherent on the scales of the entire umbra .",
    "@xcite showed that when a fast ( acoustic ) wave moves horizontally across the umbral field lines , up and away from the subphotospheric source located near the axis of a sunspot , it is partially converted into a slow mode wave when it reaches the layer where the alfven and sound speeds are equal .",
    "the slow mode waves then steepen into shocks thus creating a pattern of shocks ( ufs ) propagating away from the sunspot center .",
    "this behavior inferred from simulations is very similar to the dynamics of ufs observed here .",
    "most of the sunspot umbra , observed in the tr si iv spectral line , appears bright and filled with oscillations and shocks .",
    "however , there are regions that appear very dark at the chromospheric and tr level and do not exhibiting detectable oscillations . while other authors have pointed out the connection between the footpoints of coronal loops and the bright tr umbra ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we emphasize a possible connection between the bright magneto - convection features ( i.e. , lbs , clusters of uds ) and bright uv umbra and coronal loop footpoints . to the best of our knowledge ,",
    "the role of lbs in coronal heating has not been widely discussed in the science literature .",
    "we find that the bright si iv umbra is situated above the underlying chromospheric lbs and other bright umbral structures as well as with the footpoints of the overlying bright coronal loops .",
    "the intensity of shocks is not uniform over the umbra and the most intense shock structures were detected in the parts of the umbra associated with one of the lbs .",
    "we suggest that the non - homogeneities in the umbral magnetic field may play an important role in heating coronal loops rooted in the sunspots by facilitating generation of shocks .",
    "the non - uniformities may also increase effectiveness of fast to slow mode conversion , however this question has to be answered by future mhd simulations .    finally , as we have already noted in this study",
    ", the second quadrant of the umbra appears dark in si iv and aia 171  ( as well as other ) spectral lines .",
    "careful inspection of the relevant aia and bsbo h@xmath0  images showed that the dark part of the umbra was associated with a system of what appears to be dim horizontal threads possibly representing a filaments channel .",
    "@xcite used spectropolarimetric data acquired at the fe i 15643 - 15658  to conclude that in the presence of moderate and strong magnetic fields ( 300 - 1800  g ) the photospheric waves tend to run upward , while in the areas with low closed loops oscillations exhibited a lack of power and standing waves dominate .",
    "while these observations offer reasonable explanations for existence and spatial distribution of hot and bright uv loops and dim umbra , we still need to understand the mechanisms of wave energy transfer and conversion , heating of umbral loops and the role of light bridges in this process .",
    "this work was conducted as part of the effort of nasa s living with a star focused science team `` jets '' .",
    "we thank bbso observing and engineering staff for support and observations .",
    "this research was supported by nasa lws nnx11ao73 g and nsf ags-1146896 grants .",
    "vyu acknowledges support from korea astronomy and space science institute during his stay there , where a part of the work was performed .",
    "authors thank prof .",
    "nakaryakov for insightful comments .",
    "we also thank anonymous referee for valuable criticism .      , k.  s. , pevtsov , a.  a. , & olmschenk , s. 2008 , in astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "383 , subsurface and atmospheric influences on solar activity , ed .",
    "r.  howe , r.  w. komm , k.  s. balasubramaniam , & g.  j.  d. petrie , 279"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyse sunspot oscillations using interface region imaging spectrograph ( iris ) slit - jaw and spectral data and narrow - band chromospheric images from the new solar telescope ( nst ) for the main sunspot in noaa ar 11836 . </S>",
    "<S> we report that the difference between the shock arrival times as measured the mg ii k 2796.35  and si iv 1393.76  line formation levels changes during the observed period and peak - to - peak delays may range from 40  s to zero . </S>",
    "<S> the intensity of chromospheric shocks also displays a long term ( about 20  min ) variations . </S>",
    "<S> nst s high spatial resolution h@xmath0  data allowed us to conclude that in this sunspot umbral flashes ( ufs ) appeared in the form of narrow bright lanes stretched along the light bridges and around clusters of umbral bright points . </S>",
    "<S> time series also suggested that ufs preferred to appear on the sunspot - center side of light bridges , which may indicate the existence of a compact sub - photospheric driver of sunspot oscillations . </S>",
    "<S> the sunspot s umbra as seen in the iris chromospheric and transition region data appears bright above the locations of light bridges and the areas where the dark umbra is dotted with clusters of umbral dots . </S>",
    "<S> co - spatial and co - temporal data from the atmospheric imaging assembly on board solar dynamics observatory showed that the same locations were associated with bright footpoints of coronal loops suggesting that the light bridges may play an important role in heating the coronal sunspot loops . </S>",
    "<S> finally , the power spectra analysis showed that the intensity of chromospheric and transition region oscillations significantly vary across the umbra and with height , suggesting that umbral non - uniformities and the structure of sunspot magnetic fields may play a role in wave propagation and heating of umbral loops . </S>"
  ]
}