{
  "article_text": [
    "molecular communication is a paradigm that aims to develop communication systems at the nanoscale @xcite . in order to ensure efficiency and biocompatibility ,",
    "the objective of this new communication paradigm is to develop communication systems by utilizing components that are found in the nature .",
    "such a communication system will include at least one transmitter nanomachine which encodes information into molecules ( i.e. , ions , deoxyribonucleic acid [ dna ] molecules ) .",
    "these molecules will be transported to the receiver and decoded .",
    "example models of molecular communication that have been proposed include molecular diffusion of information molecules @xcite and those using active carriers such as bacteria @xcite .",
    "enabling communication at the nanoscale and interconnecting the molecular nanonetworks to the internet could provide opportunities for a new generation of _ smart city _ and _ health - care _ applications",
    ". examples of these applications include :    * _ environmental sensing _ : the future smart city envisions more accurate and efficient sensing techniques for the environment .",
    "this sensing process may include early detection of pathogens that may affect the crops or live stocks . since bacteria are found widespread within the environment , they can serve as information carriers between nano sensors , and collect information at fine granular scale . *",
    "_ biofuel quality monitoring _",
    ": one alternative source of energy is the conversion of biomass to fuel production .",
    "recently , scientists have experimentally shown how engineered bacteria could turn glucose into hydrocarbon that are structurally identical to commercial fuel @xcite . therefore ,",
    "utilizing bacterial nanonetworks could improve the quality of biofuel production , and at the same time provide accurate quality control . *",
    "_ personalized health - care _ : the process of early disease detection within the human body is a major challenge .",
    "detecting diseases at an early stage can provide opportunities of curing the condition and prevent further spreading of the disease .",
    "since bacteria are found in the gut flora , embedding nanonetworks into the intestine can provide fine granular sensing at the molecular scale .",
    "besides sensing , the bacterial nanonetworks can also provide new methods for targeted drug delivery .",
    "in this article , we focus on the use of bacteria to transport dna - encoded information between the nanomachines . in a bacterial nanonetwork",
    ", bacteria are kept inside the nanomachines and then released to commence the information transmission process @xcite . while numerous works have investigated the feasibility of bacterial nanonetworks ( e.g. , @xcite ) , the communication models used in the earlier works have not considered bacterial social behavior .",
    "bacteria usually co - exist as a community , which at times could consist of multi - cellular community .",
    "the community structure enables bacteria to cooperate and co - exist in varying environmental conditions .",
    "however , extreme environmental conditions ( e.g. , scarce resources ) could also lead to competitive and non - cooperative behavior among the bacteria species .",
    "this usually results in each species developing strategies for survival . since bacterial nanonetworks will rely on bacteria carrying messages between the different nanomachines , the social properties can affect the performance and reliability of the bacterial nanonetworks .",
    "we provide an overview of various bacterial social behavior and the challenges as well as opportunities they create in the context of the reliability of communication in bacterial nanonetworks .",
    "an analogy can be drawn between the social - based bacterial nanonetworks and the social - based delay - tolerant networks ( dtns ) , where the social behavior of people can affect the performance of mobile ad hoc networks .",
    "the key contributions of this article can be summarized as follows :    * we review and analyze the impact of bacterial social behaviors on the performance of the nanonetworks .",
    "we describe the various challenges and opportunities that arise due to the bacterial social behavior in such networks . * using computer simulations , we demonstrate the use of bacterial cooperative social behavior that help to entice the bacterial motility towards the destination .",
    "the results from the simulations show that the cooperation can substantially improve the network performance .",
    "* this article creates a new direction of research to address the challenges in future molecular nanonetworks that utilize bacteria as information carrier .",
    "in particular , the article provides a guideline to exploit bacterial social properties in a dynamic environment to improve the communication performance .",
    "the remainder of the article is organized as follows : after an overview of the bacterial nanonetworks , we provide an introduction to the communication mechanisms among different bacterial species .",
    "this is followed by a review of the social properties of bacterial community .",
    "then , we describe the challenges and opportunities that arise due to the bacterial social behavior from the perspective of the communication performance in bacterial nanonetworks .",
    "we present results from simulation studies to evaluate the effect of dynamic social behavior on the performance of the communication nanonetwork . to this end , we highlight several future research scopes in this emerging multi - disciplinary field before we conclude the article .",
    "the social behaviors of bacteria result from their communication capabilities . again , this communication results from bacterial linguistics , which is enabled by emitting various biochemical agents .",
    "the communication process of the bacteria is not only limited to bacteria of the same species , but it can also extend to multi - colony and inter - species communication @xcite .",
    "recent studies have identified that inter - species message - passing occurs quite regularly in multi - species _",
    "biofilms_. the biofilms refer to surface - attached densely - populated communities formed by the bacteria . for instance , larger population of antibiotic resistant cells within a bacterial population can emit chemical signals ( e.g. , small molecules ) to increase antibiotic resistance in less resistant cells .",
    "these small molecules are not limited to protect the cells within the same species , but can also extend to other species @xcite .    [ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "as described in the introduction , our aim is to utilize bacteria as an information carrier between the nanomachines in order to enable molecular communication .",
    "however , the uncertain conditions as well as the non - cooperative social behavior could affect the bacteria carrying the message . on the other hand , the cooperative behavior could be beneficial for the performance of the nanonetworks .",
    "the cooperative behavior could lead to population survivability , which implies that this will support the bacteria carrying the message to successfully arrive at the destination nanomachine . as described earlier ,",
    "an example of this is when the cooperation allows the bacteria to form fluidic boundaries in order to protect other bacteria in the population . a key issue , however , is the non - cooperative behavior of the bacteria which could affect the information transmission probability . in this situation ,",
    "the bacteria released from the transmitter nanomachine , which are carrying the message , are vulnerable and may not successfully arrive at the receiver nanomachine .    in the following we list a number of challenges and opportunities arising due to the social behavior of bacteria that can affect the communication performance .",
    "bacteria , similar to most organisms , rely on environmental nutrients for survival .",
    "the previous section described how cooperative behavior between the bacteria can enable nutrients to be discovered ( e.g. , sensing ) as well as fair delivery ( e.g. , foraging ) .",
    "however , we have also seen that depletion of nutrients can lead to the bacterial species switching towards negative behavior .",
    "this will not only affect multi - species bacteria , where one species may try to kill off another species , but also amongst the same species . in the context of molecular communication , the bacterial species that is killed maybe responsible for the information transfer .",
    "therefore , the design of communication between the nanomachines will need to consider fluctuations of nutrients in the environment , and obtain solutions to cope with the bacteria that are trying to eliminate each other .",
    "one approach to mitigate this situation and turn this into an opportunity is to ensure a stable environment .",
    "stable environment with sufficient nutrients minimizes the competition among the bacteria and hence improves communication reliability .",
    "the nanomachines that will release the bacteria with the embedded information could also encapsulate nutrients from the nanomachine .",
    "these nutrients can be released at the same time as the bacteria with the encoded information .",
    "once the nutrients are diffused into the environment , the bacteria with the encoded information can reproduce in numbers .",
    "this will enable the species of the bacteria carrying the messages to possibly outnumber the other competing species , in the event they decide to release toxins to kill the other species .",
    "although the changes in the quantity of nutrients can affect the environment , this is not the only factor that can change the social interactions of the bacteria .",
    "as has been described earlier , certain bacteria can switch to selfish behavior in order to seek individual benefit .",
    "the learning capabilities of the bacteria may also lead to the behavioral switching .",
    "for instance , if the bacteria are initially cooperating and sense a high enough density of population within the environment , they may decide to switch the behavior believing that their change may not be detected by the general population .",
    "in such a case , if a nanonetwork is embedded within a biofilm and this biofilm structure fails , this could lead to a full breakdown of the nanonetwork .",
    "one solution to mitigate this problem is to ensure that the environment contains an optimum density of nanomachines forming the network so that the network will be robust under failures .",
    "therefore , in the event of biofilm breakdown , the nanonetwork may be subdivided into sub - networks .",
    "previous discussions have described the destructive effects of non - cooperative bacteria on the communication performance .",
    "one method to improve the communication performance is to apply antibiotics within the environment to kill off bacteria that are harmful .",
    "however , the bacteria could develop resistance to the antibiotics and this resistance could be through a gene within a plasmid . through the conjugation process",
    "these plasmids with resistance to antibiotics could be passed between the bacteria .",
    "note that the conjugation process is generally beneficial for bacterial nanonetworks since it increases the quantity of messages that could be delivered to the destination nanomachine .",
    "since this could be negatively utilized by the harmful bacteria , both the positive and negative effects of conjugation should be taken into consideration when designing bacterial social networks .    in order to curb the non - cooperative behaviors ,",
    "the nanomachines within the environment could also dispense antibiotics .",
    "this will require the bacteria carrying the plasmid with the encoded information to also possess the antibiotic resistance genes . in the event that the bacteria carrying legitimate plasmids are conjugated with the other bacteria",
    ", they will also transfer the plasmids with the antibiotic - resistant genes .",
    "when the antibiotics are diffused before any transmission , this will ensure that the non - cooperators without the resistance genes are eliminated from the environment .",
    "therefore , this will lower the probability of conjugating with the non - cooperators .",
    "in order to observe the impact of cooperative bacterial social interaction , in this section , we evaluate the communication performance in a bacterial nanonetwork through simulations . ) .",
    "we use matlab to develop the simulator .",
    "] we compare and analyze the results with the bacteria - based nanonetwork approaches that have been proposed in the existing literature ( e.g. , @xcite ) , where cooperation is not considered .",
    "we simulate a network with two nanomachines , which are the source nanomachine and the receiver nanomachine , separated at some distance @xmath0 as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : bacsimnets ] . we consider _",
    "e. coli _ bacteria as the information carrier .",
    "for realistic modeling purpose , we use similar simulation parameters used in the earlier studies ( e.g. , @xcite , @xcite ) , by mathematical biologists who have developed the models based on the experimental results .",
    "since the data message ( encoded in dna plasmid ) is embedded in the bacteria , each bacterium can be considered as an individual data packet .",
    "we utilize bacterial chemotaxis in order to attract the bacteria to swim toward the destination nanomachine .",
    "this is achieved by the destination nanomachine releasing the chemoattractant ( e.g. , nutrient ) .",
    "bacteria move through a biased random _ running _ and _ tumbling _ process and eventually carry the plasmid to the destination .",
    "we assume that the source nanomachine transmits in a time division manner , and if the bacterium does not reach the destination within a fixed timeout duration , the information is considered to be lost .",
    "we observe the reliability of the network in terms of the successful transmission probability defined by @xmath1 , where @xmath2 and @xmath3 denote the total number of bacteria released from the source nanomachine and the number of bacteria that reach the destination nanomachine , respectively .    among the different bacterial social interactions , here we consider the cooperative communication process by means of qs .",
    "the cooperative process is established when the bacterium observes increasing chemoattractant density and notifies the others through diffusion of cooperative signaling molecules .",
    "the objective is to entice the bacteria carrying the message to bias its directional mobility towards the destination .",
    "we assume that in our environment , there is no supporting architecture ( e.g. , nanotube ) between nanomachines and the bacteria are freely swimming in the medium .",
    "we model the bacterial mobility @xcite as follows : @xmath4 where @xmath5 denotes the position of the bacterium @xmath6 at time @xmath7 within the timeout duration ; @xmath8 and @xmath9 denote the direction and magnitude of the bacteria movement , @xmath10 is the step size of the bacterium during one time interval , @xmath11 is an i.i.d .",
    "gaussian random vector representing the tumbling effect and the _ brownian motion_. brownian motion refers to the random collision of molecules in the medium . due to",
    "brownian motion , even in running mode the direction of the bacterium will change in a random manner .",
    "the binary decision variable @xmath12 determines whether the bacterium will run or tumble at a time instance @xmath7 . at each time instance",
    ", the bacterium decides whether it will run or tumble based on its own ability to make a decision and the information obtained from the environment ( e.g. , from other bacteria ) .",
    "if the sequence of decisions @xmath12 for @xmath13 eventually leads the bacterium to the destination nanomachine within the timeout duration @xmath14 , the information transmission process is considered to be successful .",
    "note that , as mentioned in section [ subsec : coop ] , bacteria can release cooperative molecules and by sensing the density of the molecules ( released by other bacteria ) , a bacterium biases its mobility accordingly . for the case of cooperative communication ,",
    "the decision sequence is determined based on both the chemoattractant density and the cooperative molecular signals released by individual bacterium during the qs process . when there is no interaction among the bacteria , the decision sequence is determined based on only the density of chemoattractant observed from the medium .",
    "we consider a steady - state chemoattractant density ( e.g. , the density of the chemoattractant will not change over time ) .",
    "however , the observed density by the bacterium will vary according to the distance between the current position of the bacterium and the chemoattractant source ( e.g. , receiver nanomachine ) .",
    "we also assume a stable environment with sufficient nutrients .",
    "therefore , this will lead to minimal non - cooperative behaviors and competition of nutrients among the bacteria , and the bacterial behavior will not change during the communication process .            in fig .",
    "[ fig : distance_eff ] , we vary the distance between the source and destination nanomachine . for a fixed timeout duration , when the distance between the nanomachines is high , the bacteria are unable to reach the destination which reduces the probability of successful transmission .",
    "note that , even when there is no cooperation [ e.g. , dotted curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : distance_eff ] ] , a small number of bacteria can still reach the destination using their own sensing abilities ( e.g. , utilizing the chemotaxis process ) .",
    "cooperative communication among bacteria helps to attract them toward the chemoattractant gradient .",
    "for example , a bacterium obtains additional information about the chemoattractant sources from the other bacteria in the environment and adapts its decision of running and tumbling accordingly .",
    "however , at larger distances between the source and destination , the effect of cooperation is less prominent due to the fact that the cooperative signaling molecules spread too far and have minimal influence on the bacteria sensing .      in fig .",
    "[ fig : bacteria_dyn ] , we vary the number of bacteria and observe the effect of cooperative signaling molecules on the communication performance in terms of successful transmission probability . we define the relative gain of cooperation as @xmath15 , where @xmath16 and @xmath17 denote the observed network reliability due to cooperative communication and without cooperation , respectively .",
    "note that although increasing the number of cooperating bacteria improves the relative gain , there comes a point when the cooperative behavior leads to a declining gain .",
    "for example , when the number of bacteria @xmath18 , the relative gain of cooperation is around @xmath19 , which is considerably less than that when the population size @xmath20 ( e.g. , @xmath21 ) .",
    "in such a scenario , although increasing the number of bacteria results in an increased number of bacteria at the receiver , the reliability ( in terms of successful transmission probability ) does not increase substantially , which leads to a lower gain .",
    "[ fig : pop_dyn ] shows the individual bacterial behavior with different chemoattractant density profile .",
    "we consider a situation where a fraction of the population cooperates by producing cooperative signaling molecules that bias the bacteria toward the chemoattractant gradient .",
    "however , the rest of the population use only the chemoattractant gradient .",
    "note that , increasing the distance limits the success probability .",
    "when the nutrient density is reduced to half ( i.e. , from @xmath22 to @xmath23 , as represented in the dotted curves ) , the success probability drops significantly , especially for shorter distances . for shorter distances ,",
    "the bacteria are close to the chemoattractant source . as a result , the effect of changes in the cooperative signaling molecules is more prominent .    in low - density scenarios ,",
    "the bacteria are unable to observe the gradient of the chemoattractant nutrient ( and hence also fail to signal and cooperate with the other bacteria ) which leads to a lower success rate .",
    "an interesting observation is that the percentage of bacteria that do not participate in the cooperation , but are able to reach the destination , is higher compared to the percentage of bacteria that cooperate and reach the destination .",
    "we can explain this fact as follows : the bacteria that are not part of the cooperative group , can still benefit from the diffused molecules released by the cooperative bacteria .",
    "this demonstrates how the non - cooperative bacteria can benefit from the cooperative bacteria .",
    "in addition to their own sensing capability , the bacteria that do not cooperate , also benefit from others diffused information . as a result",
    ", a higher percentage of bacteria will arrive at the destination .",
    "note that even though certain bacteria diffuse cooperative signaling molecules to the other bacteria , this does not guarantee that those bacteria will reach the destination .",
    "[ fig : chemo_den ] shows the communication performance under varying chemoattractant density . in fig .",
    "[ fig : density_vs_prob ] , as the density of the chemoattractant increases , this leads to a higher success rate of information transfer . in high - density conditions ,",
    "the bacteria are able to sense the gradient of the chemoattractant more rapidly which enables them to reach the destination successfully .",
    "however , we can still see the benefits of cooperative signaling which helps to bias the directional movement of the bacteria toward the destination .    the relative gain in terms of the successful transmission probability ( due to cooperation ) with varying chemoattractant density is illustrated in fig . [",
    "fig : density_vs_gain ] . during the low - density conditions , the effect of cooperative communication is more significant .",
    "we can attribute this to the fact that under low chemoattractant density conditions , the bacteria are unable to sense the chemoattractant gradient efficiently , especially when they are far from the chemoattractant source . in such cases , the cooperative signaling molecules aid and compensate for the low chemoattractant density , leading to higher gains . although cooperative signaling molecules help the bacteria compared to the case when there is no cooperation , its influence on the bacteria is far less compared to a situation with a high density of chemoattractant .",
    "among numerous research opportunities that will emerge from this new multi - disciplinary research field , we list out a few examples below .",
    "the first research opportunity is the increased research synergy between ict researchers and molecular biologists , in particular , for the development of wet lab experimental platforms .",
    "nsf monaco _ project has began developing an experimental platform that brings together communication engineers , microfluidic experts , and molecular biologists .",
    "however , the project is only limited to validating bacterial nanonetworks using molecule - based communication .",
    "therefore , future wet lab experimental validations can take on the dna - based communication in bacterial nanonetworks . by developing experimental platforms for dna - based communication",
    ", a new collaborative synergy can be established between ict researchers , experimental bacteriologists , and biotechnologists .",
    "the experimental validations can lead to the potential applications that have been described in the introduction , e.g. , environmental sensing , biofuel quality monitoring , or new solutions for personalized health - care .",
    "another research prospect is to integrate the bacterial nanonetworks with the established solutions found in present nanotechnology research and/or industrial products .",
    "a number of research efforts have been dedicated to produce nanoscale components that can be assembled into nanomachines .",
    "these nanomachines can perform limited functionalities such as sensing and releasing drug payloads to the diseased cells . incorporating bacterial delivery process through the nanonetworks",
    "can enhance the probability of delivering the elements to the targeted location .",
    "lastly , the area of bacterial nanonetworks along with molecular communication can play a major role in the field of synthetic biology .",
    "the objective of synthetic biology is the development of artificial creation of biological components and systems that are tailored to perform specific functions .",
    "therefore , using existing knowledge and tools in synthetic biology can help design tailored bacterial nanonetworks that have a certain performance reliability for a specific application .",
    "the use of bacteria as an information carrier has been proposed for molecular communication . utilizing the bacterial properties such as their ability of carrying plasmids ( this could represent the information that has been encoded ) and their mobility , could enable information to be transferred between the different nanomachines .",
    "similar to most organisms , bacteria also exhibit social properties , which include both cooperative and non - cooperative behavior . in this article",
    ", we have presented an overview of the various communication mechanisms as well as the social properties of bacteria .",
    "we have discussed the challenges that arise due to these mechanisms which can affect the information transfer performance in the bacterial nanonetworks .",
    "in particular , the challenges due to non - cooperation and opportunities due to cooperation have been discussed .",
    "these opportunities can be exploited in designing nanomachines .",
    "for example , the cooperative and non - cooperative behaviors can be modeled using _ game theory _ and the bacterial nanonetworks can be engineered to achieve the optimal outcome , for example , by using _ mechanism design_.",
    "simulation results have been presented to evaluate the impact of bacterial cooperative behavior in improving the information transfer performance in a single - link nanonetwork .",
    "the results have shown improvement in the communication performance for varying distances between the source and destination nanomachines , as well as situations when the chemoattractant density is varied .",
    "the solutions to the fundamental research challenges in conventional ad hoc networks , such as social - based dtns , can provide lessons for analyzing communication networks at the nanoscale ( e.g. , bacterial nanonetworks ) .",
    "the commonality between these two different networks is that the nodes and the organisms , respectively , which carry the information , exhibit social behavior . a new direction of research to address the research challenges in future social - based molecular nanonetworks can thus be envisaged",
    "this work was supported in part by a discovery grant from the natural sciences and engineering research council of canada ( nserc ) , in part by the academy of finland fidipro program `` nanocommunication networks , '' 20122016 , and in part by the academy research fellow program ( project no .",
    "284531 ) .",
    "t.  p. howard , s.  middelhaufe , k.  moore , c.  edner , d.  m. kolak , g.  n. taylor , d.  a. parker , r.  lee , n.  smirnoff , s.  j. aves _",
    "et  al . _ , `` synthesis of customized petroleum - replica fuel molecules by targeted modification of free fatty acid pools in _ escherichia coli _ , '' _ proceedings of the national academy of sciences _ , vol .",
    "110 , no .",
    "19 , pp . 76367641 , 2013 .",
    "m.  gregori and i.  akyildiz , `` a new nanonetwork architecture using flagellated bacteria and catalytic nanomotors , '' _ ieee journal on selected areas in communications _ , vol .",
    "28 , no .  4 , pp .",
    "612619 , may 2010 .",
    "e.  b. jacob , y.  shapira , and a.  i. tauber , `` seeking the foundations of cognition in bacteria : from schrdinger s negative entropy to latent information , '' _ physica a : statistical mechanics and its applications _ , vol .",
    "359 , no .  0 , pp . 495524 , 2006 .",
    "r.  popat , s.  a. crusz , m.  messina , p.  williams , s.  a. west , and s.  p. diggle , `` quorum - sensing and cheating in bacterial biofilms , '' _ proceedings of the royal society b : biological sciences _ ,",
    "1748 , pp . 47654771 , 2012 .",
    "j.  chen , x.  zhao , and a.  sayed , `` bacterial motility via diffusion adaptation , '' in _ conference record of the forty fourth asilomar conference on signals , systems and computers ( asilomar ) _",
    ", 2010 , pp . 19301934 .",
    "monowar hasan ( s13 ) is currently working toward his m.sc .",
    "degree in the department of electrical and computer engineering at the university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada .",
    "he has been awarded the university of manitoba graduate fellowship .",
    "monowar received his b.sc .",
    "degree in computer science and engineering from bangladesh university of engineering and technology ( buet ) , dhaka , in 2012 .",
    "his current research interests include internet of things , wireless network virtualization , and resource allocation in 5 g cellular networks .",
    "he served as a reviewer for several major ieee journals and conferences .",
    "ekram hossain ( s98-m01-sm06 ) is currently a professor in the department of electrical and computer engineering at university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada .",
    "he received his ph.d . in electrical engineering from university of victoria , canada , in 2001 .",
    "hossain s current research interests include design , analysis , and optimization of wireless / mobile communications networks , cognitive radio systems , and network economics .",
    "he has authored / edited several books in these areas ( http://home.cc.umanitoba.ca/~hossaina ) .",
    "hossain serves as the editor - in - chief for the _ ieee communications surveys and tutorials _ , an editor for _ ieee wireless communications_. also , currently he serves on the ieee press editorial board .",
    "previously , he served as the area editor for the _ ieee transactions on wireless communications _ in the area of `` resource management and multiple access '' from 2009 - 2011 , an editor for the _ ieee transactions on mobile computing _ from 2007 - 2012 , and an editor for the _ ieee journal on selected areas in communications _ - cognitive radio series from 2011 - 2014 .",
    "hossain has won several research awards including the university of manitoba merit award in 2010 and 2014 ( for research and scholarly activities ) , the 2011 ieee communications society fred ellersick prize paper award , and the ieee wireless communications and networking conference 2012 ( wcnc12 ) best paper award .",
    "he is a distinguished lecturer of the ieee communications society for the term 2012 - 2015 .",
    "hossain is a registered professional engineer in the province of manitoba , canada .",
    "sasitharan balasubramaniam ( sm14 ) received his bachelor ( electrical and electronic engineering ) and ph.d .",
    "degrees from the university of queensland in 1998 and 2005 , respectively , and the master s ( computer and communication engineering ) degree in 1999 from queensland university of technology .",
    "he is currently a senior research fellow at the nano communication centre , department of electronic and communication engineering , tampere university of technology ( tut ) , finland .",
    "sasitharan was the tpc co - chair for _ acm nanocom _ 2014 and _ ieee monacom _ 2011 .",
    "he is currently an editor for _ ieee internet of things _ and elsevier s _ nano communication networks_. his current research interests include bio - inspired communication networks , as well as molecular communication .",
    "yevgeni koucheryavy ( sm08 ) is a full professor and lab director at the department of electronics and communications engineering at the tampere university of technology ( tut ) , finland .",
    "he received his ph.d .",
    "degree ( 2004 ) from the tut .",
    "yevgeni is the author of numerous publications in the field of advanced wired and wireless networking and communications .",
    "his current research interests include various aspects in heterogeneous wireless communication networks and systems , the internet of things and its standardization , and nanocommunications .",
    "yevgeni is an associate technical editor of _ ieee communications magazine _ and editor of _ ieee communications surveys and tutorials_."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> molecular communication promises to enable communication between nanomachines with a view to increasing their functionalities and open up new possible applications . due to some of the biological properties , </S>",
    "<S> bacteria have been proposed as a possible information carrier for molecular communication , and the corresponding communication networks are known as _ bacterial nanonetworks_. the biological properties include the ability for bacteria to mobilize between locations and carry the information encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) molecules . </S>",
    "<S> however , similar to most organisms , bacteria have complex social properties that govern their colony . </S>",
    "<S> these social characteristics enable the bacteria to evolve through various fluctuating environmental conditions by utilizing cooperative and non - cooperative behaviors . </S>",
    "<S> this article provides an overview of the different types of cooperative and non - cooperative social behavior of bacteria . </S>",
    "<S> the challenges ( due to non - cooperation ) and the opportunities ( due to cooperation ) these behaviors can bring to the reliability of communication in bacterial nanonetworks are also discussed . </S>",
    "<S> finally , simulation results on the impact of bacterial cooperative social behavior on the end - to - end reliability of a single - link bacterial nanonetwork are presented . </S>",
    "<S> the article concludes with highlighting the potential future research opportunities in this emerging field .    molecular communication , bacterial nanonetwork , social behavior . </S>"
  ]
}