{
  "article_text": [
    "in the standard model of structure formation , the largest systems are formed from the accretion of less massive objects .",
    "therefore , clusters and superclusters of galaxies are not only the largest gravitationally bound structures but are also the most recently formed . according to this hierarchical scenario , galaxies are preferentially clustered in configurations ranging from galaxy pairs to clusters that could contain hundreds of members . between these two extremes",
    "lies a wide range of small galaxy systems such as triplets of galaxies , compact and loose groups .",
    "moreover small galaxy groups are the most common galaxy associations containing about 50% of all galaxies in the universe @xcite . in this hierarchical scenario of structure formation",
    ", the study of small groups as well as the properties of the galaxies that inhabit these systems , is essential to understand the relations between galaxy properties and the large - scale structure .",
    "the configuration of a triple system , defined as the shape of the triangle formed by their members , could be the result of the dynamical evolution of the group .",
    "numerical simulations of three bodies - systems composed by particles with comparable masses show that during most of its lifetime the systems present a predominant type of configuration , named hierarchical , formed by a close binary and a remote third body ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this scenario is significantly modified when the triplet is considered immersed in a dark matter halo that makes the dynamics of the whole system more stochastic , with no observed formation of close binaries within three crossing times @xcite .",
    "nevertheless @xcite performed more consistent simulations of galaxy triplets by modelling the galaxies in the system as plummer spheres and found , that a large primordial common halo of dark matter is not required to avoid the existence of hierarchical triplets .    from the observational point of view",
    ", there are two well studied samples , the catalogue of @xcite ( k - triplets ) and the catalogue described in @xcite ( w - triplets ) .",
    "the configuration of a sample of physical compact system derived from the k - triplets catalogue was studied by several authors @xcite . in these works",
    "it is stated that the configuration of these systems is consistent with a random uniform distribution with no excess of any particular configuration type .",
    "@xcite demonstrate that these results is not due to projection effects implementing two methods , chance coincidence and inverse matrix , both based on computer generation of triplet sets an their transformation to projected systems .",
    "@xcite found a weak excess of systems with hierarchical configuration for the sample of w - triplets concluding that this result is due to projection effects .",
    "moreover , @xcite found for the w - triplets an absence of equilateral - triangle type configuration .",
    "nevertheless these results could be biased due to the smallness of the observational samples of triple systems .",
    "the foregoing suggest that the dynamics of observed triplets is inconsistent with the classic three - body problem and advocates for self - consistent galaxy models to study the dynamics of triplets and the role of a primordial common dark matter halo in a cosmological scenario .    in @xcite ( hereafter paper i )",
    "we present a method to identify triplets of galaxies in the seventh data release of the sloan digital sky survey . in @xcite ( hereafter paper ii )",
    "we analyse the properties of galaxies in a sample of isolated triplets of bright galaxies and found that these systems could be considered as an analogous of compact groups with a lower number of members .",
    "it is important to highlight that the spectroscopic sample analysed in paper ii represents a statistically homogeneous sample with the largest number of objects analysed so far in the literature .",
    "this has allowed for a reliable study of the properties of triple systems and their member galaxies .",
    "continuing with this series of papers , in the present work we focus on the characterization of the configurations and the dynamical properties of triplets of galaxies .",
    "this paper is organized as follows : in section [ data ] we describe the different samples used in this work .",
    "section [ conf ] presents a description and analysis of the triplets configuration .",
    "the dynamical parameters of these systems are described in section [ dyn ] together with a comparison of these parameters with other galaxy systems samples . finally in section",
    "[ con ] we present the main results of this work .    throughout this paper",
    "we adopt a cosmological model characterised by the parameters @xmath2 , @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "in this work we analyse a samples of galaxy triplets derived from the data release 7 of sloan digital sky survey ( sdss - dr7 , * ? ? ?",
    "sdss @xcite has mapped more than one - quarter of the entire sky , performing photometry and spectroscopy for galaxies , quasars and stars .",
    "sdss - dr7 is the seventh major data release , corresponding to the completion of the survey sdss - ii .",
    "it comprises @xmath5 sq . deg . of imaging data , with an increment of @xmath6 sq .",
    ", over the previous data release , mostly in regions of low galactic latitude .",
    "sdss - dr7 provides imaging data for 357 million distinct objects in five bands , _ ugriz _ , as well as spectroscopy over @xmath7 steradians in the north galactic cap and @xmath8 square degrees in the south galactic cap .",
    "the average wavelengths corresponding to the five broad bands are @xmath9 , @xmath10 , @xmath11 , @xmath12 , and @xmath13  @xcite .",
    "for details regarding the sdss camera see @xcite ; for astrometric calibrations see @xcite .",
    "the survey has spectroscopy over 9380 sq .",
    "deg . ; the spectroscopy is now complete over a large contiguous area of the northern galactic cap , closing the gap that was present in previous data releases .",
    "the spectroscopic data used in this work were derived from the main galaxy sample of the sdss - dr7 ( mgs ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "k - corrections for this sample were calculated bandshifted to @xmath14 , using the software ` k - correct_v4.2 ` of @xcite . for this data ,",
    "absolute magnitudes were calculated from petrosian apparent magnitudes converted to the ab system .",
    "following paper i and paper ii , in this work we use a sample of triplets composed by three spectroscopic galaxies , brighter than @xmath15 , that are close in projected separation ( @xmath16 whit respect to the centre of the system defined as the brightest galaxy of the triplet ) and have a radial velocity difference @xmath17 . in order to select isolated systems",
    ", we impose the condition that there are no bright ( @xmath18 ) neighbours within @xmath19 from the triplet centre and with the same restriction on @xmath20 used to identify triplet members . for these isolated systems , we calculated the distance to the closest neighbour group / cluster ( @xmath21 ) as described in paper ii finding that 98% of the triplets present a distance to the nearest cluster larger than @xmath22 .",
    "moreover , 95 % of the systems are at distances greater than @xmath23 from these massive objects implying that the isolation criterion is effective in selecting systems far away from clusters of galaxies .    under these considerations ,",
    "the final sample of galaxy triplets contains 92 isolated systems with 276 spectroscopic galaxies brighter than @xmath15 , in the redshift range @xmath24 .      as a comparison sample",
    ", we also study the configuration and dynamics of triplets from the catalogue  isolated triplets of galaxies \" of @xcite .",
    "this catalogue contains the complete data for radial velocities of all components of triplets of galaxies from @xcite that lists 84 triplets of galaxies in the northern sky ( declination @xmath25 ) obtained from the data of the palomar sky survey and the catalogue of galaxies of @xcite .",
    "the triplet identification criteria used in the construction of this sample considers galaxies with visual magnitude @xmath2615.7 .",
    "each galaxy with angular diameter @xmath27 is examined as a possible member of a triplet in relation to significant neighbours , defined as those galaxies with diameters in the range [ 0.5@xmath27 - 2@xmath27 ] .",
    "these limits were introduced empirically in order to avoid contamination by foreground and background galaxies .",
    "a given set of three galaxies with diameters @xmath27 , @xmath29 and @xmath30 , which satisfy the above conditions , is considered as an isolated triplet if the distance to the nearest significant neighbour is more than 3 times the average distance between the galaxies in the triplet . as significant neighbours",
    "the authors consider galaxies whose angular diameter differs by a factor lower than two times the average diameter of triplet members .",
    "this isolation criterion , chosen empirically , corresponds to density contrast of the triplet , relative to the background , greater than 10 .",
    "the criteria described previously selected triplet member galaxies regardless their radial velocity , therefore , a system may be isolated only in projection .",
    "for these reason @xcite compile the radial velocity monitoring data of these systems and found that only 64% of the triplets could be considered as physical in the sense that all its members satisfy the condition @xmath31 , were @xmath32 is the radial velocity difference between galaxies @xmath33 and @xmath34 .",
    "nevertheless @xcite found that compact triplet , with mean harmonic radius @xmath35 , are more isolated and have greater probability of being real physical systems .",
    "in contrast , wide triplets present a lower degree of isolation and , therefore , have a higher probability of being chance configurations .",
    "for these reasons in this work we will analyse only systems from @xcite that have isolation indicator equal to ( + + + ) in the catalogue .",
    "also we imposed the restriction @xmath36 on the rms value of radial velocity difference of triplets member galaxies .",
    "this restriction was previously adopted by @xcite in order to define physical triple systems in this sample .",
    "only 37 triplets ( 111 galaxies ) , of the original catalogue of 84 systems , satisfy the above conditions and we will call them hereafter k - triplets .",
    "these systems belong to the local universe with redshifts in the range @xmath37 ( with a mean value at @xmath38 ) , therefore non of them were found in the sample of sdss - triplets .      in order to analyse real - space dynamical and configuration properties of triple systems , we used a mock catalogue derived from the semi - analytic models of @xcite for the millennium simulation @xcite outputs .",
    "the spatial resolution of this simulation is suitable for the implementation of the triple system algorithm described in paper i. also the semi - analytical model of @xcite is consistent with observations of low - redshift galaxies , including the luminosity function , the global star formation history , the color - magnitude diagram and the tully - fisher relation .",
    "the mock catalogue comprises 514914 galaxies brighter than @xmath39 , where @xmath40 correspond to the @xmath40-band magnitude of the sdss , and contains relevant information as right ascension , declination , apparent magnitude in @xmath40-band , halo mass , redshift and peculiar velocity .",
    "it is important to highlight that we used this mock catalogue in paper i in order to estimate the completeness and purity of the galaxy triplets catalogues obtained through the implementation of our algorithm .",
    "we selected triplets in the mock catalogue considering three galaxies brighter than @xmath15 with @xmath41 , were @xmath42 is the real distance from the centre , considered as the brightest galaxy of the triplet , and with no significant neighbours within @xmath43 .",
    "the systems selected under these restrictions belong to the same dark matter halo .",
    "we take into account the resolution limit of the millennium simulation and discard those systems with distances between member galaxies lower than 5@xmath44 . under these restrictions we identified 159 triplets ( 477 galaxies ) in the redshift range @xmath45 .",
    "it is worth to notice that the statistical analysis of configuration and dynamics developed in this paper will not be strongly affected by the presence of orphan galaxies , because the triplet members are bright ( @xmath46 ) , whereas the orphans primarily influence the fainter galaxy population @xcite .",
    "we have compared the dynamical properties of triples with a sample of compact groups derived from the catalogue of @xcite who identified compact groups of galaxies in the photometric data of the sdss - dr6 , through the implementation of the ` hickson criteria ' @xcite .",
    "these authors provide two catalogues : catalogue a comprising 2297 compact groups with member galaxies with petrosian @xmath40-band magnitude in the range @xmath47 and catalogue b including 74791 compact groups with galaxies in the broader magnitude range @xmath48 . due to an independent visual inspection by the authors of all galaxy members in catalogue a",
    ", the contamination of this sample due to gross photometric errors is negligible .",
    "compact groups in catalogue a have @xmath49 where @xmath50 is a measure of the maximum line - of - sight velocity difference between group members for groups with more than two members with spectroscopic redshift information .",
    "catalogue b includes many more groups than catalogue a but has the disadvantage of a larger contamination due to poor photometric classification .",
    "we will use catalogue a as a comparison sample for this work .",
    "nevertheless , this catalogue was constructed from the sixth data release of the sdss .",
    "therefore we have added to catalogue a spectroscopic redshift information from sdss - dr7 , and selected systems that have all their galaxies with spectroscopic measurements and verify @xmath49 taking into account the sdss - dr7 redshift information .",
    "we have cross - correlated our triplet sample with this compact group catalogue in order to exclude common systems finding only one coincidence .",
    "this common system consists on three triplet galaxies plus one galaxy fainter than @xmath15 .",
    "we have therefore removed this compact group from the original sample . under these restrictions",
    ", we have selected 41 compact groups ( 168 galaxies ) in the redshift range @xmath51 .",
    "the configuration of a triple system is an important property in the study of its dynamical evolution .",
    "@xcite suggested an elegant method to analyse the geometric configurations of a 3-body system .",
    "they propose a particular map ( aa - map ) , where the shape of any triangle , despite of its proper size , could be represented by the position of a single point . in order to represent on this map a triplet with components a , b and c , it is necessary to perform a series of transformations such that the plane coordinates @xmath52 and @xmath53 of the two particles at the extremes of the triangle largest side , are @xmath54 , @xmath55 , respectively .",
    "the triplet configuration is defined by the coordinates @xmath56 of the third particle that should verify the following conditions :    ",
    "@xmath57    @xmath58    @xmath59    figure [ aaplot ] shows a diagram of the aa - map . through a geometrical analysis of configurations in this map , a triangle that has approximately equal sides",
    "will be represented by a point in the upper corner , a triangle with a much smaller side than the other two will be located in the lower right corner and linear configurations will be at the lower part of the map . according to these geometrical considerations",
    ", 4 areas could be defined in the aa - map :    * * l : * lagrangian region , represented by the points that verify @xmath60 .",
    "systems whose configurations are similar to an equilateral triangle belong to this area . * * h : * hierarchical region , defined by the points that verify @xmath61 . in this area",
    "inhabit the systems formed by a close binary and a remote third body . *",
    "* a : * alignment region , represented by the points verifying @xmath62 , is the area of systems with three aligned galaxies . * * m : * an intermediate region located between the three areas defined previously .",
    "this map has been used by several authors to characterize the configuration of triplets of galaxies in different catalogues and to analyse its relation with diverse dynamic properties of the systems @xcite .",
    "the configuration of a triplet , defined through the aa - map , is based on the projected configuration and not on the study of the actual three - dimensional configuration of the system .",
    "the influence of projection effects on the aa - map were analysed by @xcite .",
    "these authors found that a set of simulated configurations of triplets with uniform density distribution on the real aa - map becomes highly non - uniform after projection .",
    "also the projection effect increases the number of triplets in the hierarchical area .",
    "different authors assess the projection effect on the aa - map through the analysis of three - body simulations . in this paper",
    "we consider a different approach that involves the analysis in a cosmological setting through the use of a sdss - dr7 synthetic catalogue .    for the mock triplets described in section [ data ] we calculate the real three - dimensional configurations ( 3d ) as well as the projected ( 2d ) configurations on the aa - map .",
    "figure [ mock3d2d ] shows the real and projected aa - map for the triplets in the mock catalogue .",
    "we used different colors and symbols in order to discriminate 3d system configuration in the 2d aa - map , the purpose of this analysis is to estimate the percentage of triplets whose projected configurations match their real ones .",
    "the resolution limit of the millennium simulation affects mostly the hierarchical area giving rise to the lack of systems in the right corner of the aa - map .",
    "the a and m regions are also affected but in a negligible percentage .",
    ".number of mock triplets in each area of the 3d and 2d aa - map and percentages of 3d2d and 2dno3d systems .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in order to characterize the system dynamics we consider the radius , the velocity dispersion , the crossing time and the virial mass of the systems .",
    "for the crossing time ( @xmath63 ) and virial mass ( @xmath64 ) we use the following expressions @xcite :    @xmath65 @xmath66    where @xmath67 is the velocity dispersion of the system , @xmath68 is the radial velocity of the galaxy and @xmath69 denotes the average over all the members of the system . following paper ii we have calculated the radius of the system @xmath70 as the minimum circle containing the centres of the group member galaxies , using the code developed by @xcite .",
    "we have also calculated the dimensionless crossing time @xmath71 , which is the ratio of the crossing time to the age of the universe and is a convenient measure of the dynamical state of the system .    in order to perform a comparative analysis ,",
    "we have studied the dynamics of the sdss - triplets , k - triples and compact groups samples .",
    "we have also estimated the dynamical parameters of the mock triplets in order to compare the dynamics of simulated and observed triple systems .",
    "table [ dynamical ] summarizes the main results .",
    "it can be appreciated that sdss - triplets , k - triplets and compact groups present similar median dynamical parameters with low crossing time values .",
    "we also found that the velocity dispersion and virial masses of sdss - triplets are similar to low mass loose groups @xcite .",
    "it is worth to notice that the estimated virial mass of sdss - triplets differ by more than one order of magnitude from the typical halo mass analysed in section [ halo_mass ] .",
    "nevertheless this result is in agreement with @xcite who found that the mass of compact groups , calculated through the virial theorem , is a gross underestimate of the halo mass .",
    "the authors state that galaxies are embedded in the central region of the dark matter halo and sample a smaller mass corresponding to the innermost region of the halo .    from table [ dynamical ] it",
    "can also be appreciated that the dynamical parameters obtained for the mock triplets are similar to those found for the sdss - triplets .",
    "this result demonstrates that triplets obtained from cosmological simulations and observed triple systems show a concordant dynamical behaviour .",
    "it is expected that dynamical effects are most pronounced in systems with low values of @xmath72 .",
    "therefore , the compact configuration could be a result of the dynamical evolution of the system .",
    "this scenario may favour the formation of elliptical galaxies through mergers , in agreement with the results found in paper ii that sdss - triplets present an important fraction of bulge - type , red galaxies , with low star formation activity indicators , similarly to galaxy members of compact groups .",
    "it is also important to consider that different configurations of the triplets may be reflecting different dynamical stages of the system .",
    "for this reason we have calculated the median of the dynamical parameters for the different aa - map configuration types for the sdss - triplets and mock triplets . in figure [ dynamic_config ]",
    "we show the results obtained where the shaded regions represent the confidence interval of the median of the parameters for each sample . from this figure",
    "it can be appreciated that there are no strong trends of the dynamical parameters with respect to the different aa - map configurations for the sdss - triplets nor for mock triplets . nevertheless , despite the error bars",
    ", it can be appreciated that sdss - triplets with a - type configuration present higher values of @xmath70 and @xmath73 which results in larger crossing time and greater values of @xmath64 . in average",
    "the mock triplets are more compact than sdss - triplets , therefore the crossing times are lower , this is more evident for type a and type m configurations where the median values of @xmath70 and @xmath74 of mock and sdss - triplets differ significantly .",
    "nevertheless it is worth to notice that mock and real triplets are similar in all other aspects analysed in this work .",
    "in this work we study the configuration and dynamical properties of a sample of triple galaxy systems derived from the seventh data release of the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss - triplets ) .",
    "we used a mock catalogue in order to compare the configuration and dynamics of the observed and simulated galaxy triplets . in order to compare the results with those obtained for similar galaxy systems , we analysed a sample of galaxy triplets obtained from the catalogue  isolated triplets of galaxies \" of @xcite ( k - triplets ) and a sample of compact groups selected from the catalogue a of @xcite .",
    "we can summarize the main results of this work as follows :    1 .",
    "our analysis of the real - space and projected configuration of triple systems allows to conclude that the aa - map provides a suitable characterization of the true configuration of the triplets because about 64% of the triplets retain their real configuration after projection .",
    "nevertheless , in the h area of the 2d aa - map the contamination by 2dno3d triplets is significant and changes the relative distribution of this region . in this sense , we conclude that there is a large contribution of this contamination ( 60% ) by triplets with m - type true configurations",
    ". 2 .   for the sdss - triplets we find that most of these systems present an alignment type configuration ( a ) while k - triplets show a more uniform distribution on the aa - map .",
    "the preference of a - type configuration persist even for a sample of sdss - triplets that fulfil the selection and isolation criteria of @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , there is no strong correlation between compactness and configuration , for sdss - triplets nor for k - triplets .",
    "the study of the mock triplets allow for an analysis of the dark matter content of galaxy triple systems .",
    "we find that the dark matter halos of triplets have masses similar to those of compact and loose galaxy groups .",
    "we also find that member galaxies of mock triplets reside in a common dark matter halo , suggesting that triple systems are dynamically evolved .",
    "we also study the maximum magnitude difference between galaxy members in both mock and sdss - triplets .",
    "we found that triplets comprise similar galaxies that reside in a single halo , these results suggest that the triplets have probably undergone recent merger events . 5 .",
    "we find that sdss - triplets , k - triplets and compact groups present similar dynamical parameters .",
    "also the dynamics of mock triplets are similar to those found for the sdss - triplets , showing that simulated and observed systems present a concordant dynamical behaviour .",
    "the low values of @xmath75 found for sdss - triplets suggest that dynamical effects are most pronounced in these systems",
    ". moreover , the different configuration could be the result of the dynamical evolution of the triplets .",
    "nevertheless we found no strong trends of the dynamical parameters with respect to the different aa - map configurations for the sdss - triplets nor for mock triplets .",
    "we conclude from these results that , in sdss - triplets , the formation of elliptical galaxies through mergers could be favoured by the configuration and dynamics found in this work .",
    "this is in agreement with the results given in @xcite who show that sdss - triplets present an important fraction of bulge - type , red galaxies , with low star formation activity indicators , similarly to galaxy members of compact groups .",
    "we thank the referee , nelson padilla , for providing us with helpful comments that improved this work .",
    "this work was supported in part by the consejo nacional de investigaciones cientficas y tcnicas de la repblica argentina ( conicet ) .",
    "alo was supported by the brazilian agencies fapesp and cnpq .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/. the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington",
    ".    99 abazajian , k.  n. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 182 , 543 aceves , h.  2001 , , 326 , 1412 agekyan , t.  a. , & anosova , z.  p.  1968",
    ", , 11 , 1006 blanton , m.  r. , & roweis , s.  2007 , , 133 , 734 chernin , a.  d. , ivanov , a.  v. , trofimof , a.  v. , & mikkola , s.  1994 , , 281 , 685 croton , d.  j. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 365 , 11 duplancic , f. , omill , a.  l. , lambas , d.  g. , sodr , l. , & alonso , s.  2013 , , 433 , 3547 efron , b. 1979 , annals of statistics 7 , 1 - 26 elyiv , a. , melnyk , o. , & vavilova , i.  2009 , , 394 , 1409 fukugita , m. , ichikawa , t. , gunn , j.  e. , doi , m. , shimasaku , k. , & schneider , d.  p.  1996",
    ", , 111 , 1748 geller , m.  j. , & huchra , j.  p.  1983",
    ", , 52 , 61 gunn , j.  e. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 116 , 3040 hao , j. , mckay , t.  a. , koester , b.  p. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 191 , 254 hearin , a.  p. , zentner , a.  r. , berlind , a.  a. , & newman , j.  a.  2013 , , 433 , 659 hernndez - toledo , h.  m. , mndez - hernndez , h. , aceves , h. , & olgun , l.  2011 , , 141 , 74 , hearn , d.  w. , vijay , j.  1982 ,  efficient algorithms for the ( weighted ) minimum circle problem \" , operations research , vol .",
    "30 , no . 4 , 777 hickson , p.  1982",
    ", , 255 , 382 hickson p. , mendes de oliveira c. , huchra j.  p. , palumbo g.  g.  c.  1992 , , 399 , 353 hogg , d.  w. , blanton , m. , & sdss collaboration  2001 , bulletin of the american astronomical society , 34 , 570 huchra , j.  p. & geller , m.  j.  1982 , , 257 , 423 karachentseva , v.  e. , karachentsev , i.  d. , & shcherbanovskii , a.  l.  1979 , astrofizicheskie issledovaniia izvestiya spetsialnoj astrofizicheskoj observatorii , 11 , 3 karachentseva , v.  e. , karachentsev , i.  d. , & lebedev , v.  s.  1988 , astrofizicheskie issledovaniia izvestiya spetsialnoj astrofizicheskoj observatorii , 26 , 42 karachentseva , v.  e. , & karachentsev , i.  d.  2000 , iau colloq .  174 : small galaxy groups , 209 , 11 kiseleva , l. , & orlov , v.  1993 , , 260 , 475 kiseleva , l.  2000 , iau colloq .  174 : small galaxy groups , 209 , 388 maia , m.  a.  g. , da costa , l.  n. , & latham , d.  w.  1989 , , 69 , 809 mcconnachie , a.  w. , ellison , s.  l. , & patton , d.  r.  2008 , , 387 , 1281 mcconnachie , a.  w. , patton , d.  r. , ellison , s.  l. , & simard , l.  2009 , , 395 , 255 melnyk , o.  v. , & vavilova , i.  b.  2006 , kinematika i fizika nebesnykh tel , 22 , 422 merchn , m.  e. , & zandivarez , a.  2005 , , 630 , 759 omill , a.  l. , duplancic , f. , garca lambas , d. , & sodr , l. , jr .",
    "2011 , , 413 , 1395 omill , a.  l. , duplancic , f. , garca lambas , d. , valotto , c. , & sodr , l.  2012 , , 421 , 1897 pier , j.  r. , munn , j.  a. , hindsley , r.  b. , hennessy , g.  s. , kent , s.  m. , lupton , r.  h. , & ivezi ,  .",
    "2003 , , 125 , 1559 sales , l. , & lambas , d.  g.  2005 , , 356 , 1045 smith , j.  a. , tucker , d.  l. , allam , s.  s. , & jorgensen , a.  m.  2002 , bulletin of the american astronomical society , 34 , 1272 springel , v. , white , s.  d.  m. , jenkins , a. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 435 , 629 strauss , m.  a. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 124 , 1810 trofimov , a.  v. , & chernin , a.  d.  1995 , astronomy reports , 39 , 308 valtonen , m. , & mikkola , s.  1991 , , 29 , 9 york , d.  g. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579 zapata t. , perez j. , padilla n. , tissera p.  2009",
    ", , 394 , 2229 zheng , j .- q . , valtonen , m.  j. , & chernin , a.  d.  1993 , , 105 , 2047 zwicky , f. , herzog , e. , & wild , p.  1968",
    ", pasadena : california institute of technology ( cit ) , 1961 - 1968"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyse the spatial configuration and the dynamical properties of a sample of 92 galaxy triplets obtained from the sdss - dr7 ( sdss - triplets ) restricted to have members with spectroscopic redshifts in the range @xmath0 and absolute r - band luminosities brighter than @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the configuration analysis was performed through agekyan & anosova map ( aa - map ) . </S>",
    "<S> we estimated dynamical parameters , namely the radius of the system , the velocity dispersion , a dimensionless crossing - time and the virial mass . </S>",
    "<S> we compared our results with those obtained for a sample of triplets from the catalogue  isolated triplets of galaxies \" ( k - triplets ) and a sample of compact groups . </S>",
    "<S> we have also studied a mock catalogue in order to compare real and projected configurations , and to estimate the three dimensional dynamical parameters of the triple systems . </S>",
    "<S> we found that the sdss - triplets prefer alignment configurations while k - triplets present an uniform distribution in the aa - map . from the dynamical analysis we conclude that the sdss - triplets , k - triplets and compact groups present a similar behaviour comprising compact systems with low crossing - time values , with velocity dispersions and virial masses similar to those of low mass loose groups . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , we found that observed and simulated triplets present similar dynamical parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we also performed an analysis of the dark matter content of galaxy triplets finding that member galaxies of mock triplets belong to the same dark matter halo , showing a dynamical co - evolution of the system . </S>",
    "<S> these results suggest that the configuration and dynamics of triple systems favour galaxy interactions and mergers .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : general - galaxies : groups : general - galaxies : interactions - galaxies : statistics </S>"
  ]
}