{
  "article_text": [
    "co - location mining aims to discover patterns of spatial features often located close to each other , i.e. in geographic proximity .",
    "an example of a pattern is a co - location of symbiotic species of plants and animals depending on ecological conditions .",
    "figure  [ fig_sample ] illustrates a sample spatial dataset with point features .",
    "as it can be observed , instances of feature ",
    "@xmath0 \" are often located close to instances of  @xmath1 \" .",
    "similarly , objects of feature ",
    "@xmath2 \" are seen close to instances of  @xmath3 \" .",
    "the main purpose of co - location mining is to come up with a set of hypotheses based on data features and statistics that are potentially useful to domain experts , so that they can uncover possible patterns that are hidden in the data sets .",
    "the discovery of spatial co - location patterns may lead to useful knowledge in various applications .",
    "for instance , one might be interested in an animal species that lives close to certain types of landmarks such as rivers , meadows , forests , etc .",
    "another example includes the co - location patterns detected between crime incidents and locations of various businesses , which can be useful for criminologists . some of the application domains for co - location mining are biology , urban studies , health sciences , earth and atmospheric sciences , etc . even though this task seems to be similar to association rule mining ( arm ) which",
    "is used in knowledge discovery , the use and adaptation of arm techniques are not trivial due to the fact that features are embedded into a geographic space and there is no clear notion of transactions .",
    "arm consists of discovering rules that express associations between items in a database of transactions .",
    "the associations are based on a notion of frequency bounded by a given threshold , such as the minimum frequency .",
    "an application which motivates the work of this paper is the detection of possible spatial associations of different chemicals and cases of childhood cancer .",
    "cancer , a multifactorial class of diseases , characterized by uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells , their invasion into other tissues , and metastasis , is one of the leading causes of adults death in both the developed and developing world  @xcite . although some individuals are genetically predisposed to cancer , most cases of cancer are suspected to be linked to environmental factors such as air pollutants , radiation , various infections , tobacco , and alcohol .",
    "however , causes of childhood cancer are difficult to determine , partially because of the fact that children s cancer cases are relatively rare and the levels of exposure to environmental factors are difficult to evaluate .",
    "our collaborative research efforts with the faculty of medicine at the university of alberta attempt to identify associations between cancer cases and known chemical emissions from the industry .",
    "some of these chemicals are proven to be carcinogens while others are not known to cause cancer on their own .",
    "it is yet to be discovered whether certain combinations of chemicals can be associated with higher rates of cancer .",
    "moreover , even if chemicals in such combinations with a potential threat are not emitted by the same industry , atmospheric conditions can contribute to the mixture .",
    "given these concerns , we deploy our model to detect co - location patterns on a spatial dataset which contains information on chemical emission points , amounts of released chemicals and the locations of childhood cancer cases if they were first diagnosed in the two canadian provinces , alberta and manitoba , where the data are collected from .",
    "figure  [ fig_map ] displays a part of the dataset with rectangles representing pollutant emission points , triangles for cancer cases , and polygons for urban municipalities . to mine",
    "such a rich dataset , first we build a modeling framework which handles the data to represent the real world conditions as accurate as possible while taking various factors which affect distribution of chemicals into account .",
    "this underlying modeling framework helps the co - location mining algorithms we develop to detect more accurate patterns .",
    "while we are not intending to find causalities , the goal of our study is to identify potentially interesting spatial associations in order to state hypotheses and further investigate relationships between childhood cancer and specific combinations of chemicals .",
    "most of the existing approaches to the co - location mining problem  @xcite deploy a framework which requires a user - defined minimum prevalence threshold . without prior knowledge it could be difficult to choose a proper threshold . furthermore",
    ", spatial features often have various frequencies in datasets , and one global threshold might lead to the omission of some co - location patterns and rules with rare events or the detection of meaningless patterns .",
    "another limitation of most of the existing algorithms is that they work with point spatial features and a single neighborhood distance threshold , whereas in reality there are datasets which , in addition to point instances , also have lines and polygons ( e.g. , a road network map ) .",
    "moreover , the information in some datasets can be uncertain : the presence of a feature in the region could depend on different factors , thus associating it with an existential probability .",
    "for example , a pollutant released from a facility distributes according to the climatic factors in its area , and the probability of detecting the chemical in a region close to the emission point is higher than in remote regions .    in this paper , we address these limitations in existing approaches by proposing a new framework which combines ideas from co - location mining , frequent pattern mining and association rule mining .",
    "our proposed framework uses statistical tests to determine the significance of co - location patterns and rules . a co - location pattern or rule",
    "is considered as significant if it has a surprisingly high level of prevalence in comparison with randomized datasets which are generated under the null hypothesis that the spatial features are independent from each other .",
    "the uncertainty of the information is modeled as a dependent relationship based on the distance from the spatial object .",
    "we also paid attention to the computational complexity of the proposed algorithms . in this paper",
    ", we discuss some of the filtering techniques we used to increase the efficiency of the algorithms .    in one of our previous papers @xcite we outlined some of the core ideas of the framework proposed in this paper and provided some preliminary results .",
    "in this paper , we extend the above work in few different aspects .",
    "first , we provide a concrete description of our complete co - location mining framework by properly defining the grid transactionization algorithm and including it in the workflow of the mining process .",
    "furthermore we include details on how to work with uncertainty in spatial datasets .",
    "we also tested our proposed framework on a completely new , real dataset for the province of manitoba , canada , which allowed us to analyze the robustness and effectiveness of our approach while also helping to derive new co - location rules .",
    "we also include results from further experiments conducted on synthetic datasets to help validate the results .",
    "results from another variation of our proposed framework are also included , which ignores the uncertainty attribute of the spatial dataset . the results from this  certain method \" assist in further exploring the extensibility of the proposed framework .",
    "we also implemented a baseline co - location rule miner and compared the rules mined by that with the rules mined by our approach .",
    "this has provided more evidence that our algorithm is not only capable of deriving highly prevalent rules but also it can detect statistically significant rules which may not be highly prevalent .",
    "furthermore , we provide a closer analysis on the computational complexity of the proposed algorithms , as well as on the choice of a proper grid granularity measure .",
    "the remainder of the paper is organized as follows .",
    "an overview of the related work is given in section 2 .",
    "the proposed framework and its outline are described in section 3 .",
    "section 4 describes the challenges and the modeling framework used to mine the co - location patterns between pollutants and childhood cancer cases .",
    "the experiments are presented in section 5 , followed by conclusions in section 6 .",
    "in recent years spatial data mining has gained significant attention due to the abundance of data with spatial and temporal attributes .",
    "in particular spatial data mining is the process of extracting interesting and useful patterns in geographic datasets .",
    "the technological advances in data storage and the widespread use of gps technologies , remote sensing devices , and location - based services have created large amounts of spatial data .",
    "the spatial data processing and analysis is useful in a wide range of applications such as population analysis , social sciences , environmental sciences , and business applications .",
    "in contrast to classical data mining , spatial data mining has some specific features . in classical data mining",
    ", it is assumed that data objects are independent from each other , whereas in spatial datasets , objects situated close to each other tend to be more similar , and have the same characteristics than objects located at a great distance .",
    "autocorrelation is another important feature which can be observed in spatial datasets that helps to explain the gradual change of temperature with precipitation levels .",
    "one of the major difficulty in dealing with spatial data is the relatively higher complexity of its data object types and their relations .",
    "for instance , there are not only points but also lines and polygons in spatial databases .",
    "furthermore , the relationship between objects are implicit , such as intersection , containment and enclosure .",
    "various types of methods and approaches are used to analyze such spatial dasets .",
    "insights from traditional data mining techniques have been useful in developing these methods .",
    "some of the tasks in spatial data analysis include spatial clustering , co - location mining , spatial trend detection , outlier detection and spatial classification  @xcite .",
    "we discuss some of the significant previous works in this context under two major categories:1 ) co - location mining as a category of spatial data mining techniques , and 2 ) frequent pattern mining as a general data mining technique which can provide insights in co - location pattern detection .",
    "co - location mining is one of the tasks of spatial data mining that can be divided into two classes of methods : spatial statistics approaches , and spatial data mining approaches .",
    "spatial statistics approaches deploy statistical techniques such as cross k - functions with monte - carlo simulations  @xcite , mean nearest - neighbor distance , and spatial regression models  @xcite to evaluate and find co - location patterns between two features",
    ". disadvantages of these approaches are expensive computation time and the difficulty in applying them to patterns consisting of more than two spatial features .",
    "spatial data mining approaches could be categorized into transaction - based methods ( i.e. works with transactions ) , and spatial join - based methods ( i.e. use spatial joins of instance tables or feature layers ) .",
    "transaction - based approaches work by creating transactions over the space and using association rule mining like algorithms on these transactions  @xcite .",
    "one of these methods , a reference centric model  @xcite , creates transactions around a reference feature specified by the user .",
    "each set of spatial features that form neighbourhood relationships with an instance of the reference feature is considered as a transaction . however , not all applications have a clearly defined reference feature .",
    "for example , in urban studies , features could be schools , fire stations , hospitals , etc . , and there is no single specific feature of interest .",
    "another approach , the window - centric model  @xcite , divides the space into cells , and considers instances in each cell as a transaction",
    ". the model can consider all possible windows as transactions or use spatially disjoint cells .",
    "however , a major drawback of the model is that some instance sets are divided by the boundaries of cells .",
    "therefore some of the spatial relationship information is lost . on the other hand maximal cliques",
    "( i.e. maximal sets of instances which are pair - wise neighbors ) in spatial data are also proposed to be used as transactions  @xcite .",
    "however this approach does not preserve the information regarding the relative distance of the objects in cliques as long as they are considered neighbours .",
    "spatial join - based approaches work with spatial data directly .",
    "they include cluster - and - overlay methods and instance - join methods . in the cluster - and - overlay approach",
    ", clustering is used to mine associations .",
    "for example , concentrations of objects in layers are found in order to search for possible causal features  @xcite . in another work  @xcite ,",
    "layers of points and area data are constructed for each spatial feature based on clusters of data instances or boundaries of those clusters .",
    "the above proposes two algorithmic approaches for cluster association rule mining : vertical - view approach and horizontal - view approach . in the former ,",
    "after the clusters in the layers are found , the layers are segmented into a finite number of cells .",
    "then , a relational table is constructed where an element is equal to one , if the corresponding cell satisfies an event in a layer , and the element is zero otherwise .",
    "afterwards an association rule mining algorithm is applied to that table .",
    "the second approach evaluates intersections of clustered layers .",
    "a clustered spatial association rule defined in the above work is of the form @xmath4 , where @xmath5 and @xmath6 are the sets of layers , @xmath7 is the clustered support ( i.e. the ratio of the area that satisfies both @xmath5 and @xmath6 to the total area of the study region ) , and @xmath8 is the clustered confidence ( i.e. the percentage of cluster areas of @xmath5 that intersect with clusters of @xmath6 ) .",
    "however , these approaches might be highly sensitive to the choice of clustering methods .",
    "in addition , this cluster based approach assumes that features are clustered , even though spatial features may not form explicit clusters .",
    "the other spatial join - based approach , the instance - join algorithm , is similar to classical association rule mining .",
    "one of the first proposed co - location pattern mining frameworks of this type  @xcite is based on the neighbourhood relations and the participation index concepts .    following the previous cluster - overlay methods to detect co - location patterns  @xcite , another approach  @xcite uses clustering to detect co - location patterns as follows . for two spatial features @xmath9 and @xmath10 ,",
    "if the density of objects of the feature @xmath9 in proximity of objects of the feature @xmath10 is higher than the overall density of objects of @xmath9 , then the feature @xmath9 is considered to be co - located with the feature @xmath10 , i.e. their objects tend to be situated close to each other .",
    "similar to some of the previous approaches , this algorithm also suffers from a limitation where it is based on an assumption that spatial instances of a feature are situated close to each other and form clusters which may not be the case in some real - world applications .",
    "the basic concepts in the co - location mining frameworks are analogous to the concepts in traditional association rule mining . as an input ,",
    "the framework takes a set of spatial features and a set of instances , where each instance is a vector that contains information on the instance i d , the feature type of the instance , and the location of the instance . as an output ,",
    "the method returns a set of co - location rules , where a co - location rule is of the form @xmath11 , where @xmath12 and @xmath13 are co - location patterns , @xmath14 is the prevalence measure ( i.e. the participation index ) , and @xmath15 is the conditional probability .",
    "the participation index @xmath16 of a co - location pattern @xmath17 is defined as :    @xmath18    where @xmath19 is the participation ratio of a feature @xmath20 in a co - location @xmath17 and it is computed as :    @xmath21    a co - location pattern is considered prevalent , or interesting , if for each feature of the pattern , at least @xmath22 instances of that feature form a clique with the instances of all the other features of the pattern according to the neighbourhood relationship . similar to association rule mining , only frequent @xmath23 patterns are used for the @xmath24 candidate generation process . a co - location rule @xmath25",
    "is considered prevalent if its conditional probability is higher than a threshold .",
    "the conditional probability @xmath26 is defined as : @xmath27    in the approach mentioned above , it is assumed that spatial features occur with similar levels of frequency .",
    "therefore , if a dataset contains rare spatial features , co - locations involving these rare events will be pruned by a prevalence threshold because more frequent features dominate rare ones , and no pattern with a rare event can become prevalent .",
    "for example , a rare disease will not be captured in co - location patterns due to the fact that its causes are more frequent in the database . to solve this limitation , huang et al .",
    "@xcite continue their previous work by introducing an algorithm that finds co - location patterns with rare features . instead of the participation index threshold ,",
    "the authors propose to use the maximal participation ratio threshold .",
    "briefly , a co - location pattern is considered prevalent if @xmath28 instances of at least one of the features in the pattern are co - located with instances of all the other features , where @xmath29 is the maximal participation ratio : @xmath30 it is not well explained how the algorithm deals with noisy features .",
    "they identify noisy features as the features that have a relatively insignificant number of instances in the given spatial dataset than the other features , and those instances are concentrated only on few co - location patterns . in this case",
    "it is highly probable that every co - location pattern with these features will be considered prevalent because of their high participation ratio irrespective of their insignificant representation in the whole dataset .",
    "both previously mentioned methods use computationally expensive instance joins to identify instances of co - location patterns , and their running time grows fast as the number of instances and sizes of candidate patterns increase .",
    "yoo et al .  @xcite propose a partial - join approach for mining co - location patterns .",
    "a study space is partitioned into square cells with the side length equal to a neighbourhood distance threshold .",
    "a set of spatial instances in a cell form a clique .",
    "join operations are required to identify neighbourhood relationships divided by boundaries of cells . even though this approach reduces the computation time",
    ", it still requires a large amount of spatial joins .",
    "the joinless algorithm  @xcite is a follow - up work to the partial - join approach .",
    "it further decreases computation time of constructing neighbourhood relationships .",
    "the main idea is to find star neighbourhoods instead of calculating pairwise distances between all the instances in a dataset .",
    "the neighbourhood relationship is materialized in the form of a table where for each instance , all its neighbors are listed . then , in order to ensure that pattern instances form cliques , an instance - lookup scheme is used to filter co - location instances . in addition , three filtering steps are used to find a set of prevalent co - location patterns . the authors prove that their algorithm finds a complete and correct set of co - location patterns and rules .",
    "the experiments on synthetic and real datasets show that the joinless approach has better performance in terms of the running time than the join - based algorithm .    based on their work , xiao et al .  @xcite improve the running time by dividing spatial objects into partitions and detecting neighboring instances in dense regions first .",
    "the algorithm finds instances in dense regions and maintains an upper bound on a prevalence measure for a candidate pattern .",
    "if the upper bound becomes less than a threshold , the method decides that it is a false candidate and stops identifying its instances in less dense regions .",
    "several other studies have extended the basic co - location mining framework to work with more complex spatial objects .",
    "for example , xiong et al .",
    "@xcite propose a framework for detecting patterns in datasets with extended objects .",
    "extended objects are objects that are not limited to spatial points but also include lines and polygons .",
    "this framework also uses the notion of buffers , which can be defined as zones of specified distances created around spatial objects .",
    "the size and the shape of these buffer zones might depend on the types of the spatial objects . in the proposed model ,",
    "candidate patterns are pruned by a coverage ratio threshold .",
    "in other words , if an area covered by the features of a candidate pattern is greater than a predefined threshold , this pattern is considered prevalent . in order to minimize the usage of geographic information systems ( gis ) overlay methods ,",
    "a coarse - level mining step is used . at this level ,",
    "minimum buffer bounding boxes of spatial objects are considered by the algorithm instead of true buffer shapes .",
    "then , patterns that have coarse level coverage ratio higher than the threshold are evaluated using actual buffers .",
    "compared to previous models , this approach takes into account the shapes of spatial objects and their distribution in space rather than using a single neighbourhood distance for varying types of features .",
    "expensive gis overlays are used in this method and a filtering technique is proposed in order to improve its performance .",
    "the approaches mentioned above use thresholds on interestingness measures , which causes meaningless patterns to be considered as significant with a low threshold , and a high threshold may prune interesting rare patterns . instead of a threshold based approach , barua and sander  @xcite use a statistical test to mine frequent co - location patterns .",
    "the participation index of a pattern in observed data is calculated as in previous studies .",
    "then , for each co - location pattern the authors compute a probability @xmath31 of seeing the same or a greater value of the prevalence measure under a null hypothesis model .",
    "a co - location is considered significant if @xmath32 , where @xmath33 is the level of significance .",
    "however , the statistical significance is not a monotonic property and it can not be used to prune insignificant co - location rules as apriori - like algorithms .",
    "thus in their work , they limit the size of the co - location pattern / rule and test each possible candidate pattern / rule to see if it passes the statistical test . to generate more general co - location rules without rule size constraint , li et al .",
    "@xcite propose a new co - location pattern mining framework by exploiting the property of statistical significance .",
    "the results of co - location rules are hard to evaluate even for domain experts , they also propose to use a classifier to help evaluate the results of co - location rules      the co - location mining problem is similar to the canonical data mining problem : association rule mining .",
    "the most classical example of association rule mining is discovering sets of goods that are often bought together . the concepts of association rule mining and co - location mining are compared in table  [ table_arm ] .",
    ".a comparison of association rule mining and co - location mining  @xcite .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     for this experiment we create synthetic datasets with two spatial features @xmath34 and @xmath35 .",
    "the study region is a 100@xmath36100 unit square .",
    "the buffer size is 1 unit . in each dataset , features have 30 instances each .",
    "we randomly place the instances of feature @xmath34 in the study region .",
    "one instance of feature @xmath35 is placed on a varying distance @xmath37 from an instance of @xmath34 .",
    "the distance @xmath37 between instances of two features is taken randomly from ten ranges \\{[0.0 , 0.2 ) , [ 0.2 , 0.4 ) , ... , [ 1.8 , 2.0 ) } ( given in units ) .",
    "the first range [ 0.0 , 0.2 ) is for the scenario when features are located very close to each other on average .",
    "the last range [ 1.8 , 2.0 ) simulates a situation when an intersection of each pair of instance buffers is very small .",
    "the expected support of pattern @xmath38 is calculated and averaged over 100 synthetic datasets for each of ten ranges .",
    "the results are presented in table  [ table_synt_remote ] . as can be observed",
    ", the expected support rapidly decreases with the increase in the average distance between instances of features @xmath34 and @xmath35 .",
    "expectedly , the range [ 0.0 , 0.2 ) gets the highest value of the expected support , and the range [ 1.8 , 2.0 ) has the lowest prevalence value .",
    "while a pattern with these features would be considered having the same prevalence measure value in all ten synthetic datasets by most previous algorithms , out transaction - based approach takes into account the actual spatial information and a relative proximity or remoteness of features from each other .",
    "co - location pattern and rule mining is one of the tasks of spatial data mining",
    ". discovery of co - location patterns and rules can be useful in many projects and applications and may lead to the discovery of new knowledge in various domains . in this paper",
    "we propose a new co - location mining framework which combines classical co - location mining , and uncertain frequent pattern and association rule mining .",
    "the approach was motivated by a real - world application of detecting possible associations of pollutant emission points and childhood cancer cases .",
    "we take into account some of the limitations that can prevent previously proposed approaches from being used in some real - world applications and domains .",
    "our novel transactionization method allows the conversion of spatial data into a set of transactions by imposing a regular grid over a given map .",
    "each grid point can be seen as a representation of a study region .",
    "features of objects and their buffers that contain a grid point form a transaction . in addition",
    ", our approach takes into account uncertainty of data by storing feature existence probabilities in transactions in order to simulate the real scenarios .",
    "a probability of feature presence in a transaction depends on a distance from the feature instance to the respective grid point .",
    "a usage of user - defined thresholds on prevalence measures like in previous algorithms is replaced by the statistical test which helps to identify significant co - location patterns and rules that are unlikely to occur only by chance . in order to decrease computation ,",
    "the filtering techniques are presented which prune candidate patterns and rules that appear to be definitely not significant .",
    "the experiments on two real and synthetic datasets show that our approach finds significant co - location patterns and rules .",
    "we deploy three different randomization strategies to find significant co - location rules .",
    "the effect of grid granularity is also evaluated .",
    "we also compared the results of our method with a baseline method which revealed that our method is not only capable of detecting highly prevalent rules , but is also capable of detecting rules which may not be highly prevalent but statistically significant .",
    "a dependence of a prevalence measure value on an average distance between feature instances is shown .",
    "the usage of transactions preserves the spatial context and information such as the relative locations of instance objects and distances between them .",
    "the consideration of feature presence probabilities helps to distinguish various cases when feature instances are situated at different distances from grid transaction points .",
    "we also demonstrate that the difference in the results obtained by our uncertain data model and certain data method can be explained and justified .",
    "the motivating application of this paper has its unique challenges .",
    "we examine several factors which affect dispersion of pollutants in the air . in order to more accurately model chemical distribution we used buffer zones differing in their sizes depending on released amounts .",
    "circular buffers are transformed into elliptical figures with the consideration of wind speed and its direction at locations of emitting facilities . finally , we model uncertainty of a pollutant presence at transaction points .",
    "in addition to pollution , other factors can also cause cancer in children . in this paper",
    "we do not intend to find true causalities but attempted to identify possible associations of pollutants and childhood cancer .",
    "the results that are derived by our algorithm can be useful for domain experts and help in further analysis of pollutant - cancer relationships .",
    "these algorithms we propose can also be used to discover co - locations for other diseases and other multiple factors .",
    "adilmagambetov , a. , zaiane , o.r .",
    ", osornio - vargas , a. : discovering co - location patterns in datasets with extended spatial objects . in : proc . of the 15th international conference on data warehousing and knowledge discovery , pp .",
    "springer ( 2013 )    aggarwal , c.c .",
    ", li , y. , wang , j. , wang , j. : frequent pattern mining with uncertain data . in : proc . of the 15th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining , pp .",
    "2938 ( 2009 )            armstrong , b. , doll , r. : environmental factors and cancer incidence and mortality in different countries , with special reference to dietary practices .",
    "international journal of cancer * 15*(4 ) , 617631 ( 1975 )      bernecker , t. , kriegel , h.p .",
    ", renz , m. , verhein , f. , zuefle , a. : probabilistic frequent itemset mining in uncertain databases . in : proc . of the 15th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining , pp .",
    "119128 ( 2009 )                      estivill - castro , v. , lee , i. : data mining techniques for autonomous exploration of large volumes of geo - referenced crime data . in : proc .",
    "of the 6th international conference on geocomputation , pp . 2426 ( 2001 )              huang , y. , zhang , p. : on the relationships between clustering and spatial co - location pattern mining . in : proc . of the 18th ieee international conference on tools with artificial intelligence , pp .",
    "513522 ( 2006 )        li , j. , zaiane , o.r .",
    ", osornio - vargas , a. : discovering statistically significant co - location rules in datasets with extended spatial objects . in : proc . of the 16th international conference on data warehousing and knowledge discovery , pp .",
    "124135 . springer ( 2014 )    li , j. , zaiane , o.r . : associative classification with statistically significant positive and negative rules . in : proc . of the 24th acm international on conference on information and knowledge management ,",
    "633642 ( 2015 )      pei , j. , han , j. , lu , h. , nishio , s. , tang , s. , yang , d. : h - mine : hyper - structure mining of frequent patterns in large databases . in : proc .",
    "of 2001 ieee international conference on data mining , pp .",
    "441448 ( 2001 )            xiao , x. , xie , x. , luo , q. , ma , w.y . : density based co - location pattern discovery . in : proc . of the 16th acm sigspatial international conference on advances in geographic information systems , pp .",
    "110 ( 2008 )    xiong , h. , shekhar , s. , huang , y. , kumar , v. , ma , x. , yoo , j.s . : a framework for discovering co - location patterns in data sets with extended spatial objects . in : proc . of 2004",
    "saim international conference on data mining , pp . 7889 ( 2004 )",
    "yoo , j.s . ,",
    "shekhar , s. , smith , j. , kumquat , j.p . : a partial join approach for mining co - location patterns . in : proc . of the 12th acm international workshop on geographic information systems , pp",
    ". 241249 ( 2004 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we intend to identify relationships between cancer cases and pollutant emissions by proposing a novel co - location mining algorithm . in this context </S>",
    "<S> , we specifically attempt to understand whether there is a relationship between the location of a child diagnosed with cancer with any chemical combinations emitted from various facilities in that particular location . </S>",
    "<S> co - location pattern mining intends to detect sets of spatial features frequently located in close proximity to each other . </S>",
    "<S> most of the previous works in this domain are based on transaction - free apriori - like algorithms which are dependent on user - defined thresholds , and are designed for boolean data points . due to the absence of a clear notion of transactions , it is nontrivial to use association rule mining techniques to tackle the co - location mining problem . </S>",
    "<S> our proposed approach is focused on a grid based `` transactionization '' of the geographic space , and is designed to mine datasets with extended spatial objects . </S>",
    "<S> it is also capable of incorporating uncertainty of the existence of features to model real world scenarios more accurately . </S>",
    "<S> we eliminate the necessity of using a global threshold by introducing a statistical test to validate the significance of candidate co - location patterns and rules . </S>",
    "<S> experiments on both synthetic and real datasets reveal that our algorithm can detect a considerable amount of statistically significant co - location patterns . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we explain the data modelling framework which is used on real datasets of pollutants ( prtr / npri ) and childhood cancer cases . </S>"
  ]
}