{
  "article_text": [
    "the quantitative understanding of structure , function , dynamics and transport of biomolecules is a fundamental theme in contemporary life sciences .",
    "geometric analysis and associated biophysical modeling have been the main workhorse in revealing the structure - function relationship of biomolecules and contribute enormously to the present understanding of biomolecular systems .",
    "however , biology encompasses over more than twenty orders of magnitude in time scales from electron transfer and ionization on the scale of femtoseconds to organism life spanning over tens of years , and over fifteen orders of magnitude in spatial scales from electrons and nuclei to organisms . the intriguing complexity and extraordinarily large number of degrees of freedom of biological systems",
    "give rise to formidable challenges to their quantitative description and theoretical prediction .",
    "most biological processes , such as signal transduction , gene regulation , dna specification , transcription and post transcriptional modification , are essentially intractable for atomistic geometric analysis and biophysical simulations , let alone _ ab - initio _ quantum mechanical descriptions .",
    "therefore , the complexity of biology and the need for its understanding offer an extraordinary opportunity for innovative theories , methodologies , algorithms and tools .",
    "the study of subcellular structures , organelles and large multiprotein complexes has become one of the major trends in structural biology .",
    "currently , one of the most powerful tools for the aforementioned systems is cryo - electron microscopy ( cryo - em ) , although other techniques , such as macromolecular x - ray crystallography , nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) , electron paramagnetic resonance ( epr ) , multiangle light scattering , confocal laser - scanning microscopy , small angle scattering , ultra fast laser spectroscopy , etc .",
    ", are useful for structure determination in general @xcite . in cryo - em experiments ,",
    "samples are bombarded by electron beams at cryogenic temperatures to improve the signal to noise ratio ( snr ) .",
    "the working principle is based on the projection ( thin film ) specimen scans collected from many different directions around one or two axes , and the radon transform for the creation of three - dimensional ( 3d ) images .",
    "one of major advantages of cryo - em is that it allows the imaging of specimens in their native environment .",
    "another major advantage is its capability of providing 3d mapping of entire cellular proteomes together with their detailed interactions at nanometer or subnanometer resolution @xcite .",
    "the resolution of cryo - em maps has been improved dramatically in the past two decades , thanks to the technical advances in experimental hardware , noise reduction and image segmentation techniques . by further taking the advantage of symmetric averaging ,",
    "many cryo - em based virus structures have already achieved a resolution that can be interpreted in terms of atomic models .",
    "there have been a variety of elegant methods @xcite and software packages in cryo - em structural determination @xcite .",
    "most biological specimens are extremely radiation sensitive and can only sustain a limited electron dose of illumination . as a result ,",
    "cryo - em images are inevitably of low snr and limited resolution @xcite .",
    "in fact , the snrs of cryo - tomograms for subcellular structures , organelles and large multi - protein complexes are typically in the neighborhood of 0.01 @xcite .",
    "to make the situation worse , the image contrast , which depends on the difference between electron scattering cross sections of cellular components , is also very low in most biological systems .",
    "consequently , cryo - em maps often do not contain adequate information to offer unambiguous atomic - scale structural reconstruction of biological specimens .",
    "additional information obtained from other techniques , such as x - ray crystallography , nmr and computer simulation , is indispensable to achieve subnanometer resolutions .",
    "however , for cryo - em data that do not have much additional information obtained from other techniques , the determination of what proteins are involved can be a challenge , not to mention subnanometer structural resolution .    to improve the snr and image contrast of cryo - em data , a wide variety of denoising algorithms has been employed @xcite .",
    "standard techniques , such as bilateral filter @xcite and iterative median filtering @xcite have been utilized for noise reduction .",
    "additionally , wavelets and related techniques have also been developed for cryo - em noise removing @xcite . moreover ,",
    "anisotropic diffusion @xcite or beltrami flow @xcite approach has been proposed for cryo - em signal recovering .",
    "however , cryo - em data denoising is far from adequate and remains a challenge due to the extremely low snrs and other technical complications @xcite .",
    "for example , one of difficulties is how to distinguish signal from noise in cryo - em data . as a result",
    ", one does not know when to stop or how to apply a threshold in an iterative noise removing process .",
    "there is a pressing need for innovative mathematical approaches to further tackle this problem .    recently",
    ", persistent homology has been advocated as a new approach for dealing with big data sets @xcite . in general ,",
    "persistent homology characterizes the geometric features with persistent topological invariants by defining a scale parameter relevant to topological events .",
    "the essential difference between the persistent homology and traditional topological approaches is that traditional topological approaches describe the topology of a given object in truly metric free or coordinate free representations , while persistent homology analyzes the persistence of the topological features of a given object via a filtration process , which creates a family of similar copies of the object at different spatial resolutions .",
    "technically , a series of nested simplicial complexes is constructed from a filtration process , which captures topological structures continuously over a range of spatial scales .",
    "the involved topological features are measured by their persistent intervals .",
    "persistent homology is able to embed geometric information to topological invariants so that  birth \" and  death \" of isolated components , circles , rings , loops , pockets , voids or cavities at all geometric scales can be monitored by topological measurements .",
    "the basic concept of persistent homology was introduced by frosini and landi   @xcite and by robins   @xcite in 1999 independently .",
    "edelsbrunner et al .",
    "@xcite introduced the first efficient computational algorithm , and zomorodian and carlsson @xcite generalized the concept .",
    "a variety of elegant computational algorithms has been proposed to track topological variations during the filtration process @xcite .",
    "often , the persistent diagram can be visualized through barcodes @xcite , in which various horizontal line segments or bars are the homology generators lasted over filtration scales .",
    "it has been applied to a variety of domains , including image analysis @xcite , image retrieval @xcite , chaotic dynamics verification @xcite , sensor network @xcite , complex network @xcite , data analysis @xcite , computer vision @xcite , shape recognition @xcite and computational biology @xcite .    the concept of persistent homology has also been used for noise reduction .",
    "it is generally believed that short lifetime events ( or bars ) are of less importance and thus regarded as `` noise '' while long lifetime ones are considered as `` topological signals '' @xcite , although this idea was challenged in a recent work @xcite . in topological data analysis ,",
    "pre - processing algorithms are needed to efficiently remove these noise .",
    "depending on the scale of a feature , a simple approach is to pick up a portion of landmark points as a representative of topological data @xcite .",
    "the points can be chosen randomly , spatially evenly , or from extreme values .",
    "more generally , certain functions can be defined as a guidance for node selection to attenuate the noise effect , which is known as thresholding .",
    "clustering algorithms with special kernel functions can also be employed to recover topological signal @xcite .",
    "all of these methods can be viewed as a process of data sampling without losing the significant topological features .",
    "they rely heavily on the previous knowledge of the geometric or statistic information .",
    "in contrast , topological simplification @xcite , which is to remove the simplices and/or the topological attributes that do not survive certain threshold , focuses directly on the persistence of topological invariant .",
    "in contrast , gaussian noise is known to generate a band of bars distributes over a wide range in the barcode representation @xcite .",
    "thank to the pairing algorithm , persistence of a homology group is measured through an interval represented by a simplex pair .",
    "if the associated topological invariant is regarded less important , simplices related to this simplex pair are reordered .",
    "this approach , combined with morse theory , proves to be a useful tool for denoising @xcite , as it can alters the data locally in the region defined as noise .",
    "additionally , statistical analysis has been carried out to provide confidence sets for persistence diagram .",
    "however , persistent homology has not been utilized for cryo - em data noise reduction , to our knowledge .",
    "a large amount of experimental data for macroproteins and protein - protein complexes has been obtained from cryo - em . to analyze these structural data ,",
    "it is a routine procedure to fit them with the available high - resolution crystal structures of their component proteins .",
    "this approach has been shown to be efficient for analyzing many structures and has been integrated into many useful software packages such as chimera @xcite . however , this docking process is limited by data quality .",
    "for some low resolution data , which usually also suffer from low snrs , there is enormous ambiguity in structure fitting or optimization , i.e. , a mathematically ill - posed inverse problem .",
    "sometimes , high correlation coefficients can be attained simultaneously in many alternative structures , while none of them proves to be biologically meaningful .",
    "basically , the fitting or optimization emphasizes more on capturing `` bulk '' regions , which is reasonable as greater similarities in density distributions imply higher possibility .",
    "however , little attention is paid to certain small `` linkage '' regions , which play important roles in biological system especially in macroproteins and protein - protein complexes .",
    "different linkage parts generate different connectivity , and thus directly influence biomolecular flexibility , rigidity , and even its functions . since persistent homology is equally sensitive to both bulk regions and small linkage regions , it is able to make a critical judgment on the model selection in structure determination , however , nothing has been reported on persistent homology based solution to ill - posed inverse problems , to our knowledge .",
    "although persistent homology has been applied to a variety of fields , the successful use of persistent homology is mostly limited to characterization , identification and analysis ( cia ) .",
    "indeed , persistent homology has seldom employed for quantitative prediction .",
    "recently , we have introduced molecular topological fingerprints ( mtfs ) based on persistent homology analysis of molecular topological invariants of biomolecules @xcite .",
    "we have utilized mtfs to reveal the topology - function relationship of macromolecules .",
    "it was found that protein flexibility and folding stability are strongly correlated to protein topological connectivity , characterized by the persistence of topological invariants ( i.e. , accumulated bar lengths ) @xcite .",
    "most recently , we have employed persistent homology to analyze the structure and function of nano material , such as nanotubes and fullerenes .",
    "the mtfs are utilized to quantitatively predict total curvature energies of fullerene isomers @xcite .",
    "the overall objective of this work is to explore the utility of persistent homology for cryo - em analysis .",
    "first , we propose a topology based algorithm for cryo - em noise reduction and clean - up .",
    "we study the topological fingerprint or topological signature of noise and its relation to the topological fingerprint of cryo - em structures .",
    "we note that the histograms of topological invariants of the gaussian random noise have gaussian distributions in the filtration parameter space .",
    "contrary to the common belief that short barcode bars correspond to noise , it is found that there is an inverse relation between the snr and the band widths of topological invariants , i.e. , the lower snr , the larger barcode band width is .",
    "therefore , at a low snr , noise can produce long persisting topological invariants or bars in the barcode presentation .",
    "moreover , for cryo - em data of low snrs , intrinsic topological features of the biomolecular structure are hidden in the persistent barcodes of noise and indistinguishable from noise contributions . to recover the topological features of biomolecular structures ,",
    "geometric flow equations are employed in the present work .",
    "it is interesting to note that topological features of biomolecular structures persist , while the topological fingerprint of noise moves to the right during the geometric flow iterations . as such",
    ", `` signal '' and noise separate from each other during the geometric flow based denoising process and make it possible to prescribe a precise noise threshold for the noise removal after certain iterations .",
    "we demonstrate the efficiency of our persistent homology controlled noise removal algorithm for both synthetic data and cryo - em density maps .",
    "additionally , we introduce persistent homology as a new strategy for resolving the ill - posed inverse problem in cryo - em structure determination .",
    "although the structure determination of microtubule data emd 1129 is used as an example , similar problems are widespread in other intermediate resolution and low resolution cryo - em data . as emd 1129",
    "is contaminated by noise , a preprocess of denoising is carried out by using our persistent homology controlled geometric flow algorithm .",
    "a helix backbone is obtained for the microtubule intermediate structure .",
    "based on the assumption that the voxels with high electron density values are the centers of tubulin proteins , we construct three different microtubule models , namely a monomer model , a two - monomer model , and a dimer model .",
    "we have found that all three models give rise to essentially the same high correlation coefficients , i.e. , 0.9601 , 0.9607 and 0.9604 , with the cryo - em data .",
    "this ambiguity in structure fitting is very common with intermediate and low resolution data .",
    "fortunately , after our topology based noise removal , the topology fingerprint of microtubule data is very unique , which is true for all cryo - em data or data generated by using other molecular imaging modalities .",
    "it is interesting to note that although three models offer the same correlation coefficients with the cryo - em data , their topological fingerprints are dramatically different .",
    "it is found that the topological fingerprint of the microtubule intermediate structure ( emd 1129 ) can be captured only when two conditions are simultaneously satisfied : first , there must exist two different types of monomers , and additionally , two type of monomers from dimers .",
    "therefore , based on topological fingerprint analysis , we can determine that only the third model is a correct model for microtubule data emd 1129 .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "the essential methods and algorithms for geometric and topological modelings of biomolecular data are presented in section [ methods ] .",
    "approaches for geometric modeling , which are necessary for topological analysis , are briefly discussed .",
    "methods for persistent homology analysis are described in detail .",
    "we illustrate the use of topological methods with both synthetic volumetric data and cryo - em density maps .",
    "their persistence of topological invariants is represented by barcodes .",
    "the geometric interpretation of the topological features is given .",
    "section [ sec : ph_noise ] is devoted to the persistent homology based noise removal .",
    "the characterization of gaussian noise is carried out over a variety of snrs to understand noise topological signature .",
    "based on this understanding , we design a persistent homology monitored and controlled algorithm for noise removal , which is implemented via the geometric flow .",
    "persistent homology guided denoising is applied to the analysis of a supramolecular filamentous complex . in section [ sec : ph_microtubule ] , we demonstrate topology - aided structure determination of microtubule cryo - em data .",
    "several aspects are considered including helix backbone evaluation , coarse - grained modeling and topology - aided structure design and evaluation .",
    "we show that topology is able to resolve ill - posed inverse problem .",
    "this paper ends with a conclusion .",
    "persistent homology has been utilized to analyze biomolecular data , which are collected by different experimental means , such as macromolecular x - ray crystallography , nmr , epr , etc . due to their different origins",
    ", these data may be available in different formats , which requires appropriate topological tools for their analysis .",
    "additionally , their quality , i.e. , resolution and snr varies for case to case , and thus , a preprocessing may be required . moreover , although biomolecular structures are not a prerequisite for persistent homology analysis , the understanding of biomolecular structure , function and dynamics is crucial for the interpretation of topological results . as a consequence , appropriate geometric modeling @xcite is carried out in a close association with topological analysis .",
    "furthermore , information from geometric and topological modelings is in turn , very valuable for data preprocessing and denoising .",
    "finally , topological information is shown to be crucial for geometric modeling , structural determination and ill - posed inverse problems .      [ cols=\"^ \" , ]     in the @xmath0 panel of fig .",
    "[ fig:1129_barcodes_polish ] , bars can be roughly groups into three parts from the top to the bottom , i.e. , an irregular  hair - like \" part on the top , a narrow regular  body \" part in the middle and a large regular  base \" part in the bottom .",
    "topologically , these parts represent different components in the microtubule intermediate structure .",
    "the irregular  hair - like \" part corresponds to the partial monomer structures located on the top and the bottom boundaries of the structure . as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : microtubule_fitting ] , each monomer has lost part of the structure at the boundary regions . the regular  body \" and  base \" parts",
    "are basically related to two types of monomers in the middle region where the structure is free of boundary effect . from the barcodes",
    ", it can be seen that ",
    "body \" part has a later  birth \" time and earlier  death \" time compared with the  base \" barcode part .",
    "this is due to the reason that this type of monomers has relative lower electron density .",
    "as the filtration is defined to go from highest electron density values to lowest ones , their corresponding barcodes appear later .",
    "their earlier death time , however , is due to the reason that they form dimers with the other type of monomers represented by the  base \" barcode part .",
    "it can be derived from these nonuniform behavior that monomers are not equally distributed along the helix backbone structure .",
    "instead , two adjacent different types of monomers form a dimer first and then all these dimers simultaneously connect with each other as the filtration goes on . moreover , from the analysis in the previous section , it is obvious to see that the  body \" and  base \" parts are topological representations of type  ii \" monomer and type  i \" monomer , respectively .    for the @xmath1 panel of fig .",
    "[ fig:1129_barcodes_polish ] , there also exists a consistent pattern when the denoising process passing a certain stage . two distinctive types of barcodes can be identified in the fingerprint , i.e. , a shorter band of barcodes on the top and a longer band of bars on the bottom .",
    "topologically , these @xmath1 bars correspond to the rings formed between two adjacent helix circles of monomers or dimers . during the filtration",
    ", dimers are formed between type  i \" and type  ii \" monomers and soon after that , all dimers connect with each other and form the helix backbone . as the filtration goes on , type  i \" monomers from the upper helix circle first connect with type  ii \" monomers at the lower circle .",
    "geometrically , this means six monomers , three ( ",
    "i - ii - i \" ) from the upper layer and three (  ii - i - ii \" ) from the lower layer , form a circle .",
    "as the filtration goes further , this circle evolves into two circles when two middle monomers on two layers also connect .",
    "however , these two circles do not disappear simultaneously . instead , one persists longer than the other .",
    "this entire process generates the unique topological fingerprint in @xmath1 barcodes .",
    "the topological fingerprint we extracted from the denoising process can be used to guide the construction and evaluation of our microtubule models . to this end",
    ", we analyze the topological features of three theoretical models .",
    "our persistent homology results for three models are demonstrated in figs .",
    "[ fig:1129_fit_barcodes ] * a * , * b * and * c * , respectively . it can be seen that all the three models are able to capture the irregular  hair \" region in their @xmath0 barcode chart . from the topological point of view , the first model is the poorest one .",
    "it fails to capture the regular fingerprint patterns in both @xmath0 and @xmath1 panels of the original cryo - em structure in fig .",
    "[ fig:1129_barcodes_polish ] * d*. with two different weight functions to represent two types of monomers , the second model delivers a relatively better topological result .",
    "it is able to preserve part of the difference between type  i \" and type  ii \" barcodes in the @xmath0 panel . in @xmath1 panel ,",
    "some nonuniform barcodes emerges .",
    "the persistent homology results are further improved in the third model when the intra - dimer and inter - dimer interactions are considered . in our third model ,",
    "fingerprint patterns of the cryo - em structure in both @xmath0 and @xmath1 panels of fig .",
    "[ fig:1129_barcodes_polish ] * d * are essentially recovered by those of fig .",
    "[ fig:1129_fit_barcodes ] * c*. even though their scales are different , their shapes are strikingly similar .",
    "the essential topological features that are associated with major topological transitions of the original cryo - em structure are illustrated in figs .",
    "[ fig:1129_homology ] * a@xmath2 * , * a@xmath3 * , * a@xmath4 * and * a@xmath5*. as shown in figs .",
    "[ fig:1129_homology ] * b@xmath2 * , * b@xmath3 * , * b@xmath4 * and * b@xmath5 * , these features have been well - preserved during the denoising process . our best predicted model is depicted in figs .",
    "[ fig:1129_homology ] * c@xmath2 * , * c@xmath3 * , * c@xmath4 * and * c@xmath5*. in these figure labels , subscripts @xmath6 and @xmath7 denote four topological transition stages in the filtration process , namely hetero - dimmer formation , large circles formation , evolution of one large circle into two circles , and finally death of one of two circles . by the comparison of denoising results ( figs .",
    "* b@xmath2 , b@xmath3 , b@xmath4 * and * a@xmath5 * ) with original structures ( figs . *",
    "a@xmath2 , a@xmath3 , a@xmath4 * and * a@xmath5 * ) , it is seen that , in the noise reduction process , although some local geometric and topological details are removed , fundamental topological characteristics are well preserved . as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:1129_barcodes_polish ] , using the persistent homology description , these fundamental topological characteristics are well - preserved in topological persistence patterns , which are further identified as fingerprints of the microtubule intermediate structure .",
    "we believe that topological fingerprints are crucial to the characterization , identification , and analysis of the biological structure . as demonstrated in figs .",
    "[ fig:1129_homology ] * c@xmath2 * , * c@xmath3 * , * c@xmath4 * and * c@xmath5 * , once our model successfully reproduces the topological fingerprints , the simulated structure is able to capture the essential topological characteristics of the original one .",
    "moreover , through the analysis in section [ sec : mode_evaluation ] , it can be seen that to reproduce the topological fingerprint of emd 1129 , two conditions are essential .",
    "the first is the creation of two types of monomers .",
    "the second is the differentiation of intra - dimers and inter - dimers .",
    "biologically , these requirements means : 1 ) there are two types of monomers , i.e. , @xmath8-tubulin monomers and @xmath9-tubulin monomers ; and 2 ) intra - dimers and inter - dimers should behave differently from hetero - dimers .    it also should be noticed that a higher correlation coefficient may not guarantee the success of the model , especially when the original data is of low resolution and low snr . as can be seen in section [ sec : three_models ] , our three theoretical models have very similar fitting coefficients .",
    "the second model even has a slightly higher cross - correlation coefficients .",
    "however , only the third model is able to reproduce the essential topological features of the original cryo - em data .",
    "this happens as topological invariants , i.e. , connected components , circles , loops , holes or void , tend to be very sensitive to  tiny \" linkage parts , which are almost negligible in the density fitting process , compared to the major body part .",
    "we believe these linage parts play important roles in biological system especially in macroproteins and protein - protein complexes .",
    "different linkage parts generate different connectivity , thus can directly influence biomolecular flexibility , rigidity , and even its functions . by associates topological features with geometric measurements , our persistent homology analysis is able to distinguish these connectivity parts",
    ". therefore , persistent homology is able to play a unique role in protein design , model evaluation and structure determination .",
    "cryo - electron microscopy ( cryo - em ) is a major workhorse for the investigation of subcellular structures , organelles and large multiprotein complexes . however , cryo - em techniques and algorithms are far from mature , due to limited sample quality and or stability , low signal to noise ( snr ) , low resolution , and the high complexity of the underlying molecular structures .",
    "persistent homology is a new branch of topology that is known for its potential in the characterization , identification and analysis ( cia ) of big data . in this work ,",
    "persistent homology is , for the first time , employed for the cryo - em data cia .",
    "methods and algorithms for the geometric and topological modeling are presented . here , geometric modeling ,",
    "such the generation of density maps for proteins or other molecules , is employed to create known data sets for validating topological modeling algorithms .",
    "we demonstrate that cryo - em density maps and fullerene density data can be effectively analyzed by using persistent homology .    since topology is very sensitive to noise , the understanding of the topological signature of noise is a must in cryo - em cia .",
    "we first investigate the topological fingerprint of gaussian noise .",
    "we reveal that for the gaussian noise , its topological invariants , i.e. , @xmath0 , @xmath1 and @xmath10 numbers , all exhibit the gaussian distribution in the filtration space , i.e. , the space of volumetric density isovalues . at a low snr , signal and noise",
    "are inseparable in the filtration space .",
    "however , after denoising with the geometric flow method , there is clear separation between signal and noise for various topological invariants . as such , a simple threshold can be prescribed to effectively remove noise . for the case of low snr ,",
    "the understanding of noise characteristic in the filtration space enable us to use persistent homology as an efficient means to monitor and control the noise removal process .",
    "this new strategy for noise reduction is called topological denoising .",
    "persistent homology has been applied to the theoretical modeling of a microtubule structure ( emd 1129 ) .",
    "the backbone of the microtubule has a helix structure .",
    "based on the helix structure , we propose three theoretical models .",
    "the first model assumes that protein monomers form the helix structure .",
    "the second model adopts two types of protein monomers evenly distributed along helix chain .",
    "the last model utilizes a series of protein dimers along the helix chain .",
    "these models are fitted with experimental data by the least square optimization method .",
    "it is found that all the three models give rise to similar high correlation coefficients with the experimental data , which indicates that the structural optimization is ill - posed . however , the topological fingerprints of three models are dramatically different . in the denoising process ,",
    "the cryo - em data of the microtubule structure demonstrate a consistent pattern which can be recognized as the intrinsic topological fingerprint of the microtubule structure .",
    "by careful examination of the fingerprint , we reveal two essential topological characteristics which discriminate the protein dimers from the monomers . as such ,",
    "we conclude that only the third model , i.e. , the protein dimer model , is able to capture the intrinsic topological characteristics of the cryo - em structure and must be the best model for the experimental data .",
    "it is believed that the present work offers a novel topology based strategy for resolving ill - posed inverse problems .",
    "this work was supported in part by nsf grants dms-1160352 and iis-1302285 , nih grant r01gm-090208 and msu center for mathematical molecular biosciences initiative .",
    "the authors acknowledge the mathematical biosciences institute for hosting valuable workshops .",
    "shawn  q. zhenga , bettina keszthelyi , eric branlunda , john  m. lyleb , michael  b. braunfelda , john  w. sedatb , and david  a. agarda . : an integrated software suite for real - time electron microscopic tomographic data collection , alignment , and reconstruction . , 157:138147 , 2007 .",
    "t.  hrabe , y.  chen , s.  pfeffer , l.k .",
    "cuellar , a.v .",
    "mangold , and f.  forster . : a python - based toolbox for localization of macromolecules in cryo - electron tomograms and subtomogram analysis . , 178:178188 , 2012 .",
    "r.  s. pantelic , c.  y. rothnagel , r.and  huang , d.  muller , d.  woolford , m.  j. landsberg , a.  mcdowall , b.  pailthorpe , p.  r. young , j.  banks , b.  hankamer , and g.  ericksson .",
    "the discriminative bilateral filter : an enhanced denoising filter for electron microscopy data .",
    ", 155:395c408 , 2006 .",
    "p.  van  der heide , x.  p. xu , b.  j. marsh , d.  hanein , and n.  volkmann .",
    "efficient automatic noise reduction of electron tomographic reconstructions based on iterative median filtering .",
    ", 158:196c204 , 2007 .",
    "v.  de  silva and g.  carlsson .",
    "topological estimation using witness complexes . in _ proceedings of the first eurographics conference on point - based graphics _ , pages 157166 .",
    "eurographics association , 2004 .",
    "r.  j. adler , o.  bobrowski , m.  s. borman , e.  subag , and s.  weinberger .",
    "persistent homology for random fields and complexes . in _",
    "borrowing strength : theory powering applications  a festschrift for lawrence d. brown _ , volume  6 , pages 124143 .",
    "institute of mathematical statistics , 2010 .",
    "m.  lysaker , a.  lundervold , and x.  c. tai .",
    "noise removal using fourth - order partial differential equation with application to medical magnetic resonance images in space and time .",
    ", 12(12):15791590 , 2003 .",
    "q.  qiao , c.  h. yang , c.  zheng , l.  fontn , l.  david , x.  yu , c.  bracken , m.  rosen , a.  melnick , e.  h. egelman , and h.  wu .",
    "structural architecture of the carma1/bcl10/malt1 signalosome : nucleation - induced filamentous assembly .",
    ", 51(6):766779 , 2013 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this work , we introduce persistent homology for the analysis of cryo - electron microscopy ( cryo - em ) density maps . </S>",
    "<S> we identify the topological fingerprint or topological signature of noise , which is widespread in cryo - em data . for low signal to noise ratio ( snr ) volumetric data , intrinsic topological features of biomolecular structures </S>",
    "<S> are indistinguishable from noise . </S>",
    "<S> to remove noise , we employ geometric flows which are found to preserve the intrinsic topological fingerprints of cryo - em structures and diminish the topological signature of noise . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , persistent homology enables us to visualize the gradual separation of the topological fingerprints of cryo - em structures from those of noise during the denoising process , which gives rise to a practical procedure for prescribing a noise threshold to extract cryo - em structure information from noise contaminated data after certain iterations of the geometric flow equation . to further demonstrate the utility of persistent homology for cryo - em data analysis </S>",
    "<S> , we consider a microtubule intermediate structure ( emd-1129 ) . </S>",
    "<S> three helix models , an alpha - tubulin monomer model , an alpha- and beta - tubulin model , and an alpha- and beta - tubulin dimer model , are constructed to fit the cryo - em data . </S>",
    "<S> the least square fitting leads to similarly high correlation coefficients , which indicates that structure determination via optimization is an ill - posed inverse problem . </S>",
    "<S> however , these models have dramatically different topological fingerprints . </S>",
    "<S> especially , linkages or connectivities that discriminate one model from another one , play little role in the traditional density fitting or optimization , but are very sensitive and crucial to topological fingerprints . the intrinsic topological features of the microtubule data are identified after topological denoising . by a comparison of the topological fingerprints of the original data and </S>",
    "<S> those of three models , we found that the third model is topologically favored . </S>",
    "<S> the present work offers persistent homology based new strategies for topological denoising and for resolving ill - posed inverse problems .    </S>",
    "<S> key words : cryo - em , topological signature , geometric flow , topological denoising , topology - aided structure determination . </S>"
  ]
}