{
  "article_text": [
    "super - massive black holes ( smbhs ) are ubiquitous in galactic nuclei ( @xcite ) , and binaries of these massive objects are a likely product of the hierarchical evolution of structures in the universe . after a galaxy merger , where both progenitors host a smbh , different mechanisms are responsible for the evolution of the binary orbit depending on its separation ( see review by @xcite ) . dynamical interaction with stars appears to be efficient to bring the smbhs down to parsec scales only , what is known as the `` last parsec problem '' ( @xcite ) . a possible way to overcome this barrier and merge the smbhs within a hubble time is interaction with gas .",
    "many theoretical and numerical studies have focused on the orbital evolution of a sub - parsec binary surrounded by a circumbinary disc ( e.g. @xcite ) . however , the exact mechanism that would produce such discs is still unclear ; it is necessary an efficient transport of gas from thousands or hundreds of parsecs to the central parsec .",
    "turbulence and gravitational instabilities in the interstellar medium , through the formation of clumps , allow portions of gas to travel almost unaffected by its surrounding , enhancing the probability of reaching the galactic nuclei ( @xcite ) .",
    "a possible manifestation of these events is the putative molecular cloud that resulted in the unusual distribution of young stars orbiting our galaxy s smbh . in particular , the simulation of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bonnell & rice ( 2008 ) ) shows a spherical , turbulent cloud falling with a very low impact parameter ( @xmath20.1 pc ) onto a one million solar masses smbh .    assuming that these accretion events are common in galactic nuclei , the goal of our work is to model such an event onto a binary instead of a single smbh .",
    "in particular , we are interested on the properties of the discs that will form given different relative orientations between the orbital angular momenta of the cloud and the binary . notice",
    "that this study is complementary to that shown in @xcite , as we are modeling clouds with very low orbital angular momentum .",
    "we model the interaction between the binaries and clouds using a modified version of the sph code gadget-3 ( @xcite ) .",
    "the cloud is represented using over @xmath3 gas particles with a total mass of @xmath4 , an initial turbulent velocity field and uniform density .",
    "the smbhs are modelled as two equally - massive sink particles that interact only through gravity and can accrete sph particles .",
    "the total mass of the binary is @xmath5 , and its initial orbit is keplerian and circular .",
    "the physical setup of the simulation is shown in figure [ initial ] .",
    "the initial velocity of the cloud yields a highly eccentric ( @xmath6 ) , bound orbit where the pericenter distance is @xmath7 pc , which is less than the binary radius , making the interaction between the gas and smbhs very strong . as we expect clouds approaching the binary from different directions , we model systems with three different inclinations between the cloud and binary orbits : aligned , perpendicular and counter - aligned .",
    "in this section we present the main results of the simulations with the different inclinations , in particular the discs that form around the binary and each smbhs .      on the left panel of figure [ bhbxy ]",
    "we show the column density map of the simulation at different times , where we can see how the interaction develops .",
    "as the gas falls almost radially onto the binary , around 80% of the cloud is accreted by the smbhs .",
    "most of the remaining gas is pushed away due to an efficient slingshot .",
    "the bound material forms a tail that get stretched and diluted over time , feeding  mini - discs \" that form around each smbh .    to measure the alignment between the binary orbit and the mini - discs , we compute its angular momentum on the corresponding black hole reference frame . we show the time evolution of the direction of both discs on the hammer projection of figure [ bhbxy ] . here",
    "we observe that they tend to align with the orbit of the binary , as expected , although one disc is slightly tilted with respect to the aligned position and also precesses around that position .",
    "this behavior could have distinctive electromagnetic signatures .",
    "for example , the misalignment could affect the variability of spectral lines , or each disc have different polarisation .",
    "the precession could be observed if jets are launched from the smbhs and align with the mini - discs .          with this inclination ,",
    "as in the previous case , around 80% of the cloud mass is added to the smbhs .",
    "however , the interaction between the gas and the binary , that we can see in figure [ bhbxz ] , is completely different respect to the aligned case . due to a less efficient slingshot",
    ", most of the remaining material stays bound to the system and it retains its original angular momentum , forming an unstable structure around the binary .",
    "the gas that reaches the smbhs also produce mini - discs , but they are less massive and more intermittent than in the aligned case .",
    "the direction of the mini - discs , shown on the right panel of figure [ bhbxz ] , shows that they tend to follow the original direction of the cloud , which makes them completely misaligned respect to the binary orbit . as well as the previous case",
    ", this could have distinctive signatures on the variability of lines or the direction of possible jets .    , but for the model with perpendicular orbits .",
    "in this case the cloud moves on the x - y plane while the binary is on the x - z plane.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=60.0% ] , but for the model with perpendicular orbits .",
    "in this case the cloud moves on the x - y plane while the binary is on the x - z plane.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=40.0% ]      in this case we have that the interaction of the binary with the gas produces shocks that cancel angular momentum , allowing the smbhs to accrete even more material than in the previous cases ; around 90% of the cloud is swallowed .",
    "the remaining material forms a tail that , due to the gravitational torques , produces a circumbinary ring . in this case",
    "we do not observe mini - discs during the entire length of the simulation .    finally , we compute the eccentricity distribution of the gas on three different stages , as shown on the right panel of figure [ bhb - xy ] .",
    "it is interesting that , if there is star formation in the ring , the stars would have very different orbits around the binary depending on the formation time - scale . for a very rapid star formation we could have highly eccentric orbits ( solid line ) , while for a slow process the stars could be distributed on a narrow ring with nearly circular orbits ( dashed line ) .    , but for the model with the counter - aligned orbits . in this case , the cloud and the binary move on the x - y plane , but the latter is rotating clockwise .",
    "right : eccentricity distribution of the gas for three different times in the simulation.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=60.0% ] , but for the model with the counter - aligned orbits .",
    "in this case , the cloud and the binary move on the x - y plane , but the latter is rotating clockwise .",
    "right : eccentricity distribution of the gas for three different times in the simulation.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=42.0% ]",
    "the preliminary results presented here show that accretion events onto binaries result in very different disc morphologies , depending on the relative inclination between the cloud and the binary orbits .",
    "our work in progress is extending this study to larger impact parameters , showing lower accretion rates , and exploring the effect of the interaction on the black holes orbit and spin evolution .",
    "these results are likely to have important implications on the multi - messenger future studies of smbh binaries and on the long - term evolution of these systems .",
    "column density maps were created with splash by @xcite .",
    "we acknowledge support from conicyt - chile through pcha / doctorado nacional , fondecyt ( 1141175 ) , basal ( pfb0609 ) , anillo ( act1101 ) , redes ( 120021 ) and exchange ( pcci130064 ) grants ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we model numerically the evolution of @xmath0 turbulent molecular clouds in near - radial infall onto @xmath1 , equal - mass super - massive black hole binaries , using a modified version of the sph code gadget-3 . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the different gas structures formed depending on the relative inclination between the binary and the cloud orbits . </S>",
    "<S> our first results indicate that an aligned orbit produces mini - discs around each black hole , almost aligned with the binary ; a perpendicular orbit produces misaligned mini - discs ; and a counter - aligned orbit produces a circumbinary , counter - rotating ring . </S>"
  ]
}