{
  "article_text": [
    ", coupling strength @xmath0 ) .",
    "@xmath1 is the nel temperature , while the temperature below which superconductivity ( a pseudogap ) is observed is denoted by @xmath2 ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "[ from ref . @xcite . ]",
    "[ phase - diagram - exp ] ]    after intensive investigations over more than two decades , it has become clear that cuprate superconductors are among the most complicated systems studied in condensed matter physics @xcite .",
    "the complications arise mainly from that the parent compounds of cuprate superconductors are a form of non - conductor called a mott insulator with an antiferromagnetic ( af ) long - range order ( aflro ) @xcite , where a single common feature in the layered crystal structure is the presence of one to several cuo@xmath4 planes in the unit cell @xcite .",
    "inelastic neutron scattering ( ins ) experiments show that the low - energy spin excitations in these parent compounds are well described by an af heisenberg model @xcite with the magnetic exchange coupling constant @xmath5 ev .",
    "when these cuo@xmath4 planes are doped with charge carriers , the aflro phase subsides and superconductivity emerges leaving the af short - range order ( afsro ) correlation still intact @xcite . although there are hundreds of cuprate superconducting ( sc ) compounds , they all fit into a universal phase diagram @xcite as schematically illustrated in fig .",
    "[ phase - diagram - exp ] , where the physical properties mainly depend on the extent of doping , and the regimes have been classified into the underdoped , optimally doped , and overdoped , respectively .",
    "after aflro is destroyed rapidly by doping , there are three apparent regions of the phase diagram : ( a ) a d - wave sc phase , where the maximal sc transition temperature @xmath2 occurs around the optimal doping , and then decreases in both the underdoped and overdoped regimes @xcite ; ( b ) a normal - state pseudogap metallic phase , where an energy gap called the normal - state pseudogap @xmath6 exists @xcite above @xmath2 but below the normal - state pseudogap crossover temperature @xmath3 . however ,",
    "in contrast to the domelike shape of the doping dependence of @xmath2 , @xmath3 is much larger than @xmath2 in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes @xcite , and then monotonically decreases upon the increase of doping .",
    "in particular , measurements taken by using a wide variety of techniques demonstrate that the normal - state pseudogap is present in both the spin and charge channels @xcite ; ( c ) a _ normal - metal _ phase with largely transport properties . in the doped regime , charge carriers couple to spin excitations @xcite .",
    "the combined ins and resonant inelastic x - ray scattering ( rixs ) experimental data have identified spin excitations with high intensity over a large part of moment space , and shown that spin excitations exist across the entire range of the sc dome @xcite . however , the charge - carrier doping causes substantial changes to the low - energy spin excitation spectrum @xcite , while it has a more modest effect on the high - energy spin excitations @xcite .",
    "in particular , rixs experiments @xcite show that the high - energy spin excitations persist well into the overdoped regime and bear a striking resemblance to those found in the parent compounds , indicating that a local - moment picture accounts for the observed spin excitations at elevated energies even up to the overdoped regime @xcite .",
    "experimentally , a large body of data available from a wide variety of measurement techniques have provided rather detailed information on cuprate superconductors , where some essential agreements have emerged .",
    "we refer the readers to the more detailed summaries of experimental results available in the literatures @xcite .",
    "superconductivity , the dissipationless flow of electrical current , is a striking manifestation of a subtle form of quantum rigidity on the macroscopic scale @xcite , where a central question is what mechanism causes the loss of electrical resistance below @xmath2 ?",
    "it is commonly believed that the existence of electron cooper pairs is the hallmark of superconductivity @xcite , since these electron cooper pairs behave as effective bosons , and can form something analogous to a bose condensate that flows without resistance .",
    "this follows from a fact that although electrons repel each other because of the coulomb interaction , at low energies there can be an effective attraction that originates by the exchange of bosons @xcite . in conventional superconductors ,",
    "as explained by the bardeen - cooper - schrieffer ( bcs ) theory @xcite , these exchanged bosons are phonons that act like a bosonic _ glue _ to hold the electron pairs together , and then these electron pairs condense into a coherent macroscopic quantum state that is insensitive to impurities and imperfections and hence conducts electricity without resistance @xcite .",
    "the excitation in the sc - state has an energy gap @xmath7 , which determines both the quasiparticle energy spectrum and the energy of the condensate @xcite . in this conventional electron - phonon sc mechanism @xcite ,",
    "the resulting wave function for the pairs turns out to be peaked at zero separation of the electrons , which leads to that the sc - state has an s - wave symmetry @xcite . as a consequence , the pairs in conventional superconductors",
    "are always related to an increase in kinetic energy which is overcompensated by the lowering of potential energy @xcite . at the temperature above @xmath2 ,",
    "the electron is in the standard landau fermi - liquid state , which is generally referred to as a _ normal - state _",
    ", where the density of states near the fermi level is smooth and generally treated as featureless @xcite . as in conventional superconductors , superconductivity in cuprate superconductors results when charge carriers pair up into charge - carrier pairs , which is supported by many experimental evidences , including the factor of @xmath8 occurring in the flux quantum and in the josephson effect , as well as the electrodynamic and thermodynamic properties @xcite . however , the normal - state of cuprate superconductors in the pseudogap phase is not normal at all , since the normal - state of cuprate superconductors in the pseudogap phase exhibits a number of the anomalous properties @xcite in the sense that they do not fit in with the standard landau fermi - liquid theory .",
    "superconductivity is an instability of the normal - state .",
    "however , one of the most striking dilemmas is that the sc coherence of quasiparticle peaks in cuprate superconductors is described by a standard bcs formalism , although the normal - state is undoubtedly not the standard landau fermi - liquid on which the conventional bcs electron - phonon sc mechanism is based .",
    "angle - resolved photoemission spectroscopy ( arpes ) experiments reveal sharp spectral peaks in the excitation spectrum @xcite , indicating the presence of quasiparticle - like states , which is also consistent with the long lifetime of electronic state as it has been determined by the conductivity measurements @xcite .",
    "moreover , arpes experiments also observe the bogoliubov - type dispersion of the sc - state @xcite predicted by the standard bcs formalism .",
    "however , as a natural consequence of the unconventional sc mechanism that is responsible for the high @xmath2 , the charge - carrier pairs in cuprate superconductors have a dominant d - wave symmetry @xcite .",
    "this d - wave sc - state also implies that there is a strongly momentum - dependent attraction between charge carriers without phonons @xcite .",
    "after over more than two decades of the painstaking effort , people are still debating the very mechanism of superconductivity in cuprate superconductors , where the crucial issues in cuprate superconductors are ( a ) what is the nature of the _ glue _ binding charge carriers into charge - carrier pairs , such that they can travel macroscopic distances without resistance ?",
    "( b ) whether the pseudogap has a competitive or collaborative role in engendering superconductivity ?",
    "very soon after the discovery of superconductivity in cuprate superconductors @xcite , anderson @xcite proposed that in the parent compounds of cuprate superconductors , the spins form a superposition of singlets .",
    "this spin liquid of singlets is so - called the resonating valence bond ( rvb ) state . upon the charge - carrier doping , these rvb singlets would become charged , resulting in a sc - state .",
    "the rvb state is fundamentally different from the conventional nel state in which the doped charge carrier can move freely among the rvb spin liquid and then a better compromise between the charge - carrier kinetic energy and spin exchange energy may be achieved . since then many elaborations of this idea followed @xcite .",
    "in particular , it was realized that essential aspects of the rvb concept can be formulated within the charge - spin separation ( css ) slave - particle approach @xcite , since the essential physics of cuprate superconductors is dominated by the short - range repulsive interaction which remains relevant and causes css @xcite .",
    "this css slave - particle approach also led to the development of the gauge theory for cuprate superconductors @xcite .",
    "however , in the framework of the original rvb theory @xcite , the af exchange coupling @xmath9 attracts electrons of opposite spins to be on neighboring sites .",
    "this is the result of states of very high energy with a spin gap , and the corresponding interaction has only high - energy dynamics @xcite .",
    "the normal - state pseudogap is identified as the spin gap in the rvb state with an energy scale set by @xmath9 , and therefore is associated with the breaking of the rvb singlets @xcite . in this case",
    ", anderson @xcite suggested that the sc - state in cuprate superconductors is determined by the need to reduce the frustrated kinetic energy of the system , where the strong frustration of the kinetic energy in the normal - state is partially relieved upon entering the sc - state , indicating that the kinetic energy causes superconductivity @xcite . on the other hand ,",
    "it has been argued phenomenologically that superconductivity in cuprate superconductors could arise from a lowering of the kinetic energy rather than the potential energy @xcite .",
    "in this scenario , superconductors would exhibit qualitatively new features in their optical properties  a violation of the low - energy optical sum rule , and a change in the high - energy optical absorption when the system becomes sc @xcite .",
    "later , the high - precision optical measurements on cuprate superconductors in the near - infrared and visible region indicate small changes in the spectral weight associated with the onset of superconductivity @xcite , therefore supporting this argument @xcite that changes in the kinetic energy are indeed occurring .",
    "in particular , the similar experimental results have by now been obtained by differently experimental groups @xcite .",
    "more importantly , the recent experimental results @xcite from the arpes measurements on cuprate superconductors indicate that @xmath2 is correlated with the charge - carrier kinetic energy , which supports the notion of the kinetic - energy driven superconductivity .",
    "motivated by these experimental results @xcite , several calculations based on the strongly correlated models have been done to show that superconductivity may be driven by a lowering of the kinetic energy upon the formation of the sc - state @xcite . by constructing an effective hamiltonian for spin polarons forming in weakly doped antiferromagnets , it has been demonstrated that the driving mechanism which gives rise to superconductivity in such system is the reduction of the kinetic energy @xcite .",
    "moreover , a numerical study of the two - dimensional hubbard model within the dynamical cluster approximation has shown the lowering of the kinetic energy below @xmath2 for different doping levels @xcite .",
    "these theoretical calculation @xcite shows that the paired charge carriers in the afsro background can be more mobile than the single charge carriers , and this can overcome the normal increase in the kinetic energy upon the pair formation @xcite .",
    "superconductivity in cuprate superconductors is something entirely new , a manifestation of the strong electron correlation , or mottness @xcite . in the early days of superconductivity ,",
    "we @xcite have developed a fermion - spin theory to confront the strong electron correlation , where the constrained electron operator is decoupled as a product of a charge carrier and a localized spin , with the charge carrier represented the charge degree of freedom of the electron together with some effects of spin configuration rearrangements due to the presence of the doped charge carrier itself , while the spin operator represented the spin degree of freedom of the electron , and then the strong electron correlation can be treated properly in actual calculations . in particular , these charge carriers and spin are gauge invariant , and in this sense , the collective modes for these charge carriers and spins are real and can be interpreted as the physical excitations of the system . in this fermion - spin theory ,",
    "the basic low - energy excitations are charge - carrier quasiparticles , the spin excitations , and the electron quasiparticles . in this case",
    ", the charge transport is mainly governed by the scattering of charge carriers due to spin fluctuations , and the scattering of spins due to charge - carrier fluctuations dominates the spin dynamics , while as a result of the charge - spin recombination , the electron quasiparticles are responsible for the electronic properties . within the framework of the fermion - spin theory @xcite , we have established a kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism @xcite , where charge carriers are held together in d - wave pairs at low temperatures by the attractive interaction in the particle - particle channel that originates directly from the kinetic energy by the exchange of spin excitations in the higher powers of the doping concentration , and then these charge - carrier pairs ( then electron cooper pairs ) condense to the d - wave sc - state .",
    "although the physical properties of cuprate superconductors in the normal - state are fundamentally different from these in the standard landau fermi - liquid state , the kinetic - energy driven sc - state still is conventional bcs - like with the d - wave symmetry , and then the obtained formalism for the charge - carrier pairing can be used to compute @xmath2 and the related sc coherence of the low - energy excitations in cuprate superconductors on the first - principles basis much as can be done for conventional superconductors . moreover ,",
    "this kinetic - energy driven sc - state is controlled by both the charge - carrier pair gap and quasiparticle coherence , which leads to that @xmath2 takes a domelike shape with the underdoped and overdoped regimes on each side of the optimal doping @xmath10 , where @xmath2 reaches its maximum . on the other hand , the same charge - carrier interaction mediated by spin excitations that induces the sc - state in the particle - particle channel also generates the normal - state pseudogap state in the particle - hole channel @xcite . as a consequence , the sc gap and normal - state pseudogap coexist but compete in the whole sc dome",
    "however , the normal - state pseudogap crossover temperature @xmath3 is much larger than @xmath2 in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes , and then monotonically decreases upon the increase of doping , eventually disappearing together with superconductivity at the end of the sc dome .",
    "this kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism therefore provides a natural explanation of both the origin of the normal - state pseudogap state and pairing mechanism for superconductivity .",
    "it is beyond the scope of this article to provide an overview of various theories of superconductivity in cuprate superconductors that have been put forward in the literatures , and some earlier reviews and different perspectives appear in refs .",
    "@xcite . in this article , we only attempt to review comprehensively the general framework of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism in the context of our work @xcite and to summarize several calculated results of physical quantities obtained based on the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism .",
    "the number of topics for this review article is listed as follows . in section [ cssfst ]",
    ", we @xcite give an overview of the fermion - spin theory , and show that within the _ decoupling _ scheme , the fermion - spin representation is a natural representation of the constrained electron defined in a restricted hilbert space without double electron occupancy .",
    "the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism @xcite is introduced in section [ kedm ] . in the rest of sections , we show how this kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism yields many results that are in broad agreement with various key experimental facts observed on cuprate superconductors .",
    "superconductors are not only perfect conductors , but also exhibit the so - called meissner effect , where they expel magnetic fields . in section [ meissner - effect ] , we consider main features of the doping dependence of the electromagnetic response observed on cuprate superconductors by using the muon - spin - rotation measurement technique , and show that in analogy to the domelike shape of the doping dependence of @xmath2 , the maximal superfluid density @xmath11 occurs around the critical doping @xmath12 , and then decreases in both lower doped and higher doped regimes . in section [ spin - response ] , we turn to the comparison of the calculated result of the dynamical spin response with rixs - ins experimental data .",
    "it is shown that the low - energy spin excitations in the sc - state have an hour - glass - shaped dispersion , with commensurate resonance that appears in the sc - state _ only _ , while the low - energy incommensurate ( ic ) spin fluctuations can persist into the normal - state .",
    "the high - energy spin excitations in the sc - state on the other hand retain roughly constant energy as a function of doping , with spectral weights and dispersion relations comparable to those found in the parent compounds .",
    "a brief description of the interplay between superconductivity and normal - state pseudogap state is given in section [ sc - pseudogap ] , where we @xcite identify the normal - state pseudogap as being a region of the self - energy effect in the particle - hole channel in which the normal - state pseudogap suppresses the spectral weight of the low - energy excitation spectrum .",
    "this normal - state pseudogap disappears at @xmath3 , and then system crossovers to the normal - metal phase with largely transport properties at the temperatures @xmath13 . in section [ charge - transport ] ,",
    "we discuss the effect of the normal - state pseudogap on the infrared response of cuprate superconductors , and show that in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes , the transfer of the part of the low - energy spectral weight of the conductivity spectrum to the higher energy region to form a midinfrared band is intrinsically associated with the emergence of the normal - state pseudogap .",
    "finally , the article concludes with the suggestions , in section [ conclusion ] , for future work .",
    "in cuprate superconductors , the single common feature in the layered crystal structure is the presence of one to several cuo@xmath4 planes in the unit cell @xcite , and it seems evident that the nonconventional behaviors of cuprate superconductors are dominated by the cuo@xmath4 plane . in this case , as originally emphasized by anderson @xcite , the essential physics of the doped cuo@xmath4 plane is contained in the one - band large-@xmath14 hubbard model @xcite on a square lattice , @xmath15 where the summation is over all sites @xmath16 , and the hopping integrals @xmath17 connect sites @xmath16 and @xmath18 .",
    "we will restrict to our attention to the nearest ( @xmath19 ) and next nearest ( @xmath20 ) neighbor hopping .",
    "@xmath21 and @xmath22 are electron operators that respectively create and annihilate electrons with spin @xmath23 , @xmath24 , and @xmath25 is the chemical potential .",
    "this large-@xmath14 hubbard model ( [ hubbard ] ) indicates that the interactions in cuprate superconductors are dominated by the on - site mott - hubbard term @xmath14 , which is very large as compared with the electron hopping integrals @xmath19 and @xmath26 , i.e. , @xmath27 , @xmath26 , and therefore leads to that electrons become strongly correlated to avoid double occupancy . in this case , the on - site mott - hubbard term must be dealt properly before bothering with relatively minor terms @xcite .",
    "it has been shown @xcite that the correct way to deal with this large-@xmath14 term in eq .",
    "( [ hubbard ] ) is to renormalize it by means of a canonical transformation @xmath28 , which eliminates large-@xmath14 term from the block which contains no doubly occupied states , and which presumably contains all the low - energy eigenstates and thus the ground state , and then the transformed hamiltonian can be obtained as , @xmath29 with the nearest - neighbors @xmath30 , the next nearest - neighbors @xmath31 , the magnetic exchange coupling constant @xmath32 , the spin operators @xmath33 .",
    "the kinetic - energy term in eq . ( [ tjmodel ] ) describes mobile charge carriers in the af background , while the heisenberg term in eq .",
    "( [ tjmodel ] ) describes af coupling between localized spins .",
    "in particular , the nearest - neighbor hopping integral @xmath19 in the kinetic - energy term is much larger than the magnetic exchange coupling constant @xmath9 in the heisenberg term , and therefore the spin configuration is strongly rearranged due to the effect of the charge - carrier hopping @xmath19 on the spins , which leads to strong coupling between the charge and spin degrees of freedom of the electron .",
    "this transformed hamiltonian ( [ tjmodel ] ) is so - called @xmath19-@xmath9 model acting on a restricted hilbert space without double electron occupancy , where there are three physical states _ only _ , latexmath:[\\ ] ] where the spectral functions @xmath560 and @xmath561 are obtained in terms of the charge - carrier diagonal and off - diagonal green s functions in eq .",
    "( [ hgf-1 ] ) as @xmath562 and @xmath563 , respectively .",
    "with @xmath248 for @xmath246 and @xmath247 .",
    "inset : the corresponding experimental data of the underdoped bi@xmath4sr@xmath4cacu@xmath4o@xmath257 taken from ref .",
    "[ from ref . @xcite . ]",
    "[ sc - conductivity ] ]    in fig .",
    "[ sc - conductivity ] , we @xcite show the calculated result of the conductivity ( [ conductivity ] ) in the sc - state as a function of energy at @xmath250 for @xmath246 and @xmath247 with @xmath248 in comparison with the corresponding experimental result @xcite of the underdoped bi@xmath4sr@xmath4cacu@xmath4o@xmath257 ( inset ) .",
    "the result in fig .",
    "[ sc - conductivity ] shows clearly that the two - component feature of the conductivity spectrum in the sc - state is the same as in the normal - state case . in particular , in comparison with the result of the conductivity in the normal - state in subsection [ normal - conductivity ]",
    ", it is found that the spectral weight of the low - energy component of the conductivity in the sc - state is further suppressed by the sc gap , however , there is no depletion of the spectral weight of the higher energy midinfrared band of the conductivity in the sc - state , which is consistent with the experimental observation on cuprate superconductors @xcite . in this case , although there is a coexistence of the sc gap and normal - state pseudogap , the onset of the region to which the spectral weight is transferred is also close to the normal - state pseudogap @xmath6 , then in analogy to the evolution of the conductivity spectrum with doping in the normal - state , the positions of the gap in the conductivity spectrum and midinfrared peak gradually shift to the lower energies with increasing doping @xcite .",
    "all the calculated results @xcite of the conductivity spectrum in the sc - state are also qualitatively consistent with the corresponding experimental data of cuprate superconductors in the sc - state @xcite .    in the sc - state , there are two parts of the charge - carrier quasiparticle contribution to the redistribution of the spectral weight in the conductivity spectrum in the sc - state : the contribution from the first term of the right - hand side in eq .",
    "( [ conductivity ] ) comes from the spectral function obtained in terms of the charge - carrier diagonal green s function ( [ hdgf-1 ] ) , and therefore is closely associated with the normal - state pseudogap @xmath6 in the particle - hole channel , while the additional contribution from the second term of the right - hand side in eq .",
    "( [ conductivity ] ) originates from the spectral function obtained in terms of the charge - carrier off - diagonal green s function ( [ hodgf-1 ] ) , and is closely related to the charge - carrier pair gap @xmath242 in the particle - particle channel .",
    "however , since @xmath564 in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes as we have mentioned in section [ sc - pseudogap ] , the charge - carrier pair gap only suppresses the spectral weight of the low - energy component , while the normal - state pseudogap related shift of the spectral weight from the low - energy to the higher energy midinfrared band in the sc - state conductivity spectrum becomes arrested .",
    "the effect of the normal - state pseudogap on the infrared response in cuprate superconductors has been also discussed based on the preformed pair theory @xcite and the phenomenological theory of the normal - state pseudogap state @xcite , and the results of the unusual two - component conductivity spectrum are qualitatively consistent with the above obtained result based on the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism by considering the interplay between the sc gap and normal - state pseudogap . in particular , their results @xcite also indicate that in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes , the transfer of the part of the low - energy spectral weight of the conductivity spectrum to the higher energy region to form a midinfrared band is intrinsically associated with the presence of the normal - state pseudogap .    in a standard landau fermi - liquid , the shape of the conductivity spectrum @xmath544 is normally well accounted for by the low - energy drude formula that describes the free charge carrier contribution to @xmath543 , and then when the temperatures @xmath565 , the spectral weight of the condensate in the sc - state comes from low energies @xcite . however , in cuprate superconductors , the part of the low - energy spectral weight in the conductivity spectrum in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes is transferred to the higher energy region to form the unusual midinfrared band , and then the width of the low - energy band is narrowing , while the onset of the region to which the spectral weight is transferred is close to the normal - state pseudogap @xmath6 . moreover , since the unusual midinfrared band is taken from the low - energy band , so that both the low - energy non - drude peak ( the conductivity decays as @xmath529 at low energies ) and unusual midinfrared band describe the actual charge - carrier density . in the framework of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism , the normal - state pseudogap state is the result of the strong electron correlation , and therefore the transfer of the part of the low - energy spectral weight of the conductivity spectrum in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes to the higher energy region to form the unusual midinfrared band is a natural consequence of the strongly correlated nature in cuprate superconductors .",
    "in particular , this strong electron correlation which induces a shift of the spectral weight from the low - energy to the higher energy midinfrared band in the conductivity spectrum , has been confirmed by the early numerical simulations based on the @xmath19-@xmath9 model in the normal - state @xcite and in the sc - state @xcite . in the normal - state , the @xmath566 perfect decay of the conductivity at low energies in the optimally doped regime is closely related with the linear temperature resistivity , since it reflects an anomalous frequency dependent scattering rate proportional to @xmath214 instead of @xmath567 as would be expected in the standard landau fermi - liquid .",
    "this linear temperature resistivity is one of the characteristically anomalous properties of cuprate superconductors in the normal - state , and has been also phenomenological discussed within the marginal fermi - liquid theory @xcite . in particular",
    ", based on the slave - boson gauge theory , it has been shown within the @xmath19-@xmath9 model that above the bose - einstein temperature , the boson inverse lifetime due to scattering by the gauge field is of order @xmath335 , which suppresses the condensation temperature and leads to a linear @xmath335 resistivity @xcite . however , in the sc - state , the large normal - state pseudogap in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes heavily reduces the fraction of the charge carriers that condense in the sc - state @xcite .",
    "the calculated result of the conductivity spectrum summarized in this section shows very clearly that if the effect of the normal - state pseudogap is taken into account in the framework of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism , the conductivity of the @xmath19-@xmath9 model calculated based on the linear response approach per se can correctly reproduce the main features found in infrared response measurements on cuprate superconductor in both the normal- and sc - states .",
    "the conductivity spectrum in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes contains the low - energy non - drude peak and unusual midinfrared band .",
    "however , the position of the midinfrared band shifts towards to the low - energy non - drude peak with increasing doping .",
    "in particular , the low - energy non - drude peak incorporates with the midinfrared band in the heavily overdoped regime , and then the low - energy drude behavior recovers .",
    "the qualitative reproduction of the main features of infrared response measurements on cuprate superconductors also shows that the transfer of the part of the low - energy spectral weight in the conductivity spectrum in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes to the higher energy region to form the unusual midinfrared band can be attributed to the effect of the normal - state pseudogap on the infrared response in cuprate superconductors .",
    "in this article , we have given a brief review of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism , where the main conclusions are summarized as :    \\(a ) in the fermion - spin theory ( [ css ] ) , the constrained electron is decoupled as a product of a charge carrier and a localized spin , and the charge carrier represents the charge degree of freedom of the constrained electron together with some effects of the spin configuration rearrangements due to the presence of the doped charge carrier itself , while the spin operator represents the spin degree of freedom of the constrained electron . in the _ decoupling scheme _",
    ", this fermion - spin representation ( [ css ] ) is a natural representation of the constrained electron defined in a restricted hilbert space without double electron occupancy .",
    "the main advantage of the fermion - spin theory ( [ css ] ) is that the electron local constraint for single occupancy is satisfied in actual calculations . in particular , the charge carrier _ or _ spin _ itself _ is @xmath54 gauge invariant , and in this sense , the collective modes for the charge carrier and spin are real and can be interpreted as the physical excitations of cuprate superconductors .",
    "although both charge carriers and spins contribute to the charge and spin dynamics , the charge - carrier relaxation time is responsible to the charge transport , and the spin relaxation time is responsible to the dynamical spin response , while as a result of the charge - spin recombination , the the electronic properties are dominated by electron quasiparticles .",
    "this is an efficient calculation scheme which can provide very good results even at the mf level .",
    "\\(b ) in the framework of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism developed based on the fermion - spin theory ( [ css ] ) , the charge - carrier pairing interaction originates directly from the kinetic energy of the @xmath19-@xmath9 model ( [ csstjmodel ] ) by the exchange of spin excitations in the higher powers of the doping concentration , and then these charge - carrier pairs ( then the electron cooper pairs ) condense to the d - wave sc - state , where the spin excitation in cuprate superconductors plays a similar role to that of the phonon in conventional superconductors .",
    "although the physical properties of cuprate superconductors in the normal - state are fundamentally different from these in the standard landau fermi - liquid state , the kinetic - energy driven sc - state still is conventional bcs - like with the d - wave symmetry , and then the obtained formalism for the charge - carrier pairing can be used to compute @xmath2 and the related sc coherence of the low - energy excitations in cuprate superconductors on the first - principles basis much as can be done for conventional superconductors . moreover , the kinetic - energy driven charge - carrier pair state is controlled by both the charge - carrier pair gap and quasiparticle coherence , which leads to that the maximal @xmath2 occurs around the optimal doping , and then decreases in both the underdoped and overdoped regimes .",
    "this kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism also indicates that the strong electron correlation favors superconductivity , since the main ingredient is identified into a charge - carrier pairing mechanism not from the external degree of freedom such as the phonon , but rather solely from the internal spin degree of freedom of the constrained electron .",
    "\\(c ) the same charge - carrier interaction arising through the exchange of spin excitations that induces the d - wave sc - state in the particle - particle channel also generates the normal - state pseudogap state in the particle - hole channel , therefore there is a coexistence of the sc gap and normal - state pseudogap in the whole sc dome .",
    "consequently , this normal - state pseudogap is identified as being a region of the self - energy effect in the particle - hole channel in which the normal - state pseudogap suppresses the spectral weight of the low - energy excitation spectrum .",
    "this normal - state pseudogap vanishes at the normal - state pseudogap crossover temperature @xmath3 , with @xmath3 that is much larger than @xmath2 in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes , and monotonically decreases upon the increase of doping , eventually disappearing together with @xmath2 at the end of the sc dome . in particular ,",
    "the normal - state pseudogap is directly related to the quasiparticle coherence , and therefore antagonizes superconductivity . moreover ,",
    "both the normal - state pseudogap and charge - carrier pair gap are dominated by one energy scale , and they are the result of the strong electron correlation in cuprate superconductors , while the domelike shape of the doping dependence of @xmath2 , the monotonic decrease of @xmath3 with doping , and relatively anomalous normal - state properties are a natural consequence of the mott physics in which double occupancy is suppressed by strongly coulombic repulsion .",
    "the theory also indicates that the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism provides a natural explanation of both the origin of the normal - state pseudogap state and the charge - carrier pairing mechanism for superconductivity .",
    "\\(d ) within the framework of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism , a number of typical properties of cuprate superconductors have been studied . in this review article , the selected results are summarized , including the doping dependence of the electromagnetic response , the dynamical spin response from low - energy to high - energy , and the charge transport , and are qualitatively comparable to the corresponding experimental results observed in cuprate superconductors . furthermore , this kinetic - energy driven bcs - type formalism gives an explanation of the raman scattering spectra @xcite obtained in terms of the electronic raman response measurement technique @xcite .",
    "it also gives a consistent description of the thermodynamic properties @xcite observed from heat capacity measurements @xcite .",
    "in particular , it has been used to successfully describe a number of the sc - state properties in the presence of impurities @xcite , including the microwave conductivity @xcite , the scanning tunneling microscopic measurements of the coherent bogoliubov quasiparticle dispersion , and the related extinction of bogoliubov quasiparticle scattering interference at low temperatures @xcite . establishing these agreements between the calculated results obtained based on the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism and the corresponding experimental data observed from a wide variety of measurement techniques are important to confirm the nature of the sc phase of cuprate superconductors to be the kinetic - energy driven d - wave sc - state .    in this review article , we have restricted our attention to the hole - doped cuprate superconductors .",
    "however , superconductivity in cuprates also emerges when electrons are doped into mott insulators @xcite .",
    "both the hole - doped and electron - doped cuprate superconductors have the layered structure of the square lattice of the cuo@xmath4 plane separated by insulating layers @xcite .",
    "although the significantly different behaviors of the hole - doped and electron - doped cuprate superconductors are observed due to the electron - hole asymmetry , the symmetry of the sc order parameter is common in both case @xcite , manifesting that two systems have similar underlying sc mechanism . in particular ,",
    "the strong electron correlation is common for both the hole - doped and electron - doped cuprate superconductors , and then it is possible that superconductivity in the electron - doped cuprate superconductors is also driven by the kinetic energy as in the hole - doped case . in this case , the charge asymmetry @xcite in superconductivity of the electron - doped and hole - doped cuprate superconductors and the electronic raman response @xcite in the electron - doped cuprate superconductors have been discussed based on the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism , and the calculated results are in qualitative agreement with the experimental data observed on the electron - doped cuprate superconductors .",
    "besides the square lattice cuprate superconductors , some cuprate materials @xcite , such as sr@xmath568cu@xmath569o@xmath570 , do not contain cuo@xmath4 planes common to cuprate superconductors but consist of two - leg cu@xmath4o@xmath251 ladders and edge - sharing cuo@xmath4 chains .",
    "in particular , the doped two - leg ladder cuprates are a system in which the sc state is realized by applying a high pressure in the highly charge - carrier doped regime @xcite",
    ". these ladder cuprate materials also are natural extensions of the cu - o chain compounds towards the cuo@xmath4 sheet structures . within the framework of the kinetic - energy driven sc mechanism ,",
    "some typical properties of the two - leg ladder cuprate superconductors have been studied , including the pressure dependence of @xmath2 @xcite , the charge dynamics @xcite , and the spin dynamics @xcite , and the calculated results are also qualitatively consistent with the experimental data obtained from the experimental measurements on the two - leg ladder cuprate superconductors .",
    "finally , we should be noted that much remains to be done . in particular , for the normal - state pseudogap , which grows upon underdoping , it seems natural to seek a connection to the physics of the af insulating parent compounds @xcite .",
    "however , at half - filling , the @xmath19-@xmath9 model is reduced as the af heisenberg model with an aflro .",
    "although a small density of charge carriers is sufficient to destroy aflro , this aflro remains until the extremely low - doped regime ( @xmath571 ) @xcite . as we have mentioned in eq .",
    "( [ ecpair ] ) , the conduct is disrupted by aflro at the extremely low - doped regime , and then an important issue is how to extend the theory of the normal - state pseudogap state for the doped regime without aflro to the case at the extremely low - doped regime with aflro for a proper description of the connection between the finite doping normal - state pseudogap and the zero - doping quasiparticle dispersion .",
    "one of authors ( sf ) thanks professor z. b. su and professor l. yu for the early collaborations , and he also thanks li cheng , huaiming guo , zheyu huang , zhongbing huang , zhihao geng , mateusz krzyzosiak , ying liang , bin liu , tianxing ma , jihong qin , yun song , weifang wang , zhi wang , feng yuan , and jingge zhang for the collaborations . this work was supported by the funds from the ministry of science and technology of china under grant nos .",
    "2011cb921700 and 2012cb821403 , the national natural science foundation of china under grant nos . 11274044 and 11447144 , and",
    "the science foundation of hengyang normal university under grant no .",
    "the charge - carrier operators @xmath295 and @xmath104 in the basis @xcite , @xmath572 of the charge - carrier states are given by , @xmath573 while the spin raising and lowering operators @xmath79 and @xmath78 in the spin 1/2 space , @xmath574 are given by , @xmath575 in the product space @xmath122 , the basis vectors are @xcite ,          however , as we have mentioned in eq .",
    "( [ rhspace ] ) , the restricted hilbert space without double electron occupancy in the @xmath19-@xmath9 model ( [ tjmodel ] ) consists of three states , @xmath119 , @xmath120 , @xmath121 , namely , @xmath578 to remove the extra degrees of freedom in the @xmath122 space , we @xcite introduce a projection operator @xmath127 . by requiring @xmath579 , @xmath580 , and @xmath581 , we can easily obtain its matrix representation , @xmath582 and its hermitian conjugation , @xmath583 using this projection operator , the electron operators in the restricted hilbert space without double electron occupancy are given by @xcite ,      as quoted in eq .",
    "( [ cep2 ] ) .",
    "it is then straightforward to verify the operator relations quoted in eq .",
    "( [ sr3 ] ) .",
    "in particular , the charge - carrier number operator , @xmath585 the physical meaning of eq .",
    "( [ hole - number ] ) is transparent : the empty state should be counted only once , not twice . since the mf treatment of the constraint on average doping concentration @xmath40",
    "is imposed directly on @xmath586 , the sum rule for the constrained electron is satisfied .",
    "p. w. anderson , science * 235 * , 1196 ( 1987 ) ;",
    "p. w. anderson , in _ frontiers and borderlines in many particle physics _ , edited by r. a. broglia and j. r. schrieffer ( north - holland , amsterdam , 1987 ) , p. 1 .",
    "see , e.g. , the review , masaki fujita , haruhiro hiraka , masaaki matsuda , masato matsuura , john m. tranquada , shuichi wakimoto , guangyong xu , and kazuyoshi yamada , j. phys . soc . jpan . * 81 * , 011007 ( 2012 ) .                          a. g. loeser , z .- x .",
    "shen , d. s. dessau , d. s. marshall , c. h. park , p. fournier , and a. kapitulnik , science * 273 * , 325 ( 1996 ) ; h. ding , t. yokoya , j. c. campuzano , t. takahashi , m. randeria , m. r. norman , t. mochiku , k. kadowaki and j. giapintzakis , nature * 382 * , 51 ( 1996 ) .",
    "see , e.g. , the review , j. c. campuzano , m. r. norman , m. randeira , in _ physics of superconductors _ , vol .",
    "ii , edited by k. h. bennemann and j. b. ketterson ( springer , berlin heidelberg new york , 2004 ) , p. 167 .",
    "s. sorella , g. b. martins , f. becca , c. gazza , l. capriotti , a. parola , and e. dagotto , phys .",
    "lett . * 88 * , 117002 ( 2002 ) ; l. spanu , m. lugas , f. becca , and s. sorella , phys . rev .",
    "b * 77 * , 024510 ( 2008 ) .",
    "f. carbone , a. b. kuzmenko , h. j. a. molegraaf , e. van heumen , v. lukovac , f. marsiglio , d. van der marel , k. haule , g. kotliar , h. berger , s. courjault , p. h. kes , and m. li , phys .",
    "b * 74 * , 064510 ( 2006 )",
    ".                                                                              y. j. uemura , g. m. luke , b. j. sternlieb , j. h. brewer , j. f. carolan , w. n. hardy , r. kadono , j. r. kempton , r. f. kiefl , s. r. kreitzman , p. mulhern , t. m. riseman , d. ll .",
    "williams , b. x. yang , s. uchida , h. takagi , j. gopalakrishnan , a. w. sleight , m. a. subramanian , c. l. chien , m. z. cieplak , gang xiao , v. y. lee , b. w. statt , c. e. stronach , w. j. kossler , and x. h. yu , phys . rev .",
    "* 62 * , 2317 ( 1989 ) ; y. j. uemura , l. p. le , g. m. luke , b. j. sternlieb , w. d. wu , j. h. brewer , t. m. riseman , c. l. seaman , m. b. maple , m. ishikawa , d. g. hinks , j. d. jorgensen , g. saito , and h. yamochi , phys .",
    "* 66 * , 2665 ( 1991 ) .",
    "d. l. feng , d. h. lu , k. m. shen , c. kim , h. eisaki , a. damascelli , r. yoshizaki , j .-",
    "shimoyama , k. kishio , g. d. gu , s. oh , a. andrus , j. odonnell , j. n. eckstein , and z .- x .",
    "shen , science * 289 * , 277 ( 2000 ) .",
    "j. e. hirsch and f. marsiglio , phys .",
    "b * 45 * , 4807 ( 1992 ) ; d. j. scalapino , s. r. white , and s. c. zhang , phys .",
    "68 * , 2830 ( 1992 ) ; d. j. scalapino , s. r. white , and s. c. zhang , phys . rev .",
    "b * 47 * , 7995 ( 1993 ) ; t. kostyrko , r. micnas , and k. a. chao , phys . rev .",
    "6158 ( 1994 ) .                  ch .",
    "niedermayer , c. bernhard , u. binninger , h. glckler , j. l. tallon , e. j. ansaldo , and j. i. budnick , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 71 * , 1764 ( 1993 ) ; l. fbrega , a. calleja , a. sin , s. piol , x. obradors , j. fontcuberta , and p. j. c. king , phys . rev .",
    "b * 60 * , 7579 ( 1999 ) ; j. l. tallon , j. w. loram , j. r. cooper , c. panagopoulos , and c. bernhard , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 180501(r ) ( 2003 ) .",
    "y. j. uemura , a. keren , l. p. le , g. m. luke , w. d. wu , y. kubo , t. manako , y. shimakawa , m. subramanian , j. l. cobb , and j. t. markert , nature * 364 * , 605 ( 1993 ) ; m. niderst , r. frassanito , m. saalfrank , a. c. mota , g. blatter , v. n. zavaritsky , t. w. li , and p. h. kes , phys .",
    ". lett . * 81 * , 3231 ( 1998 ) ; s. l. lee , p. zimmermann , h. keller , m. warden , i. m. savi , r. schauwecker , d. zech , r. cubitt , e. m. forgan , p. h. kes , t. w. li , a. a. menovsky , and z. tarnawski , phys .",
    "lett . * 71 * , 3862 ( 1993 ) .",
    "m. le tacon , g. ghiringhelli , j. chaloupka , m. moretti sala , v. hinkov , m. w. haverkort , m. minola , m. bakr , k. j. zhou , s. blanco - canosa , c. monney , y. t. song , g. l. sun , c. t. lin , g. m. de luca , m. salluzzo , g. khaliullin , t. schmitt , l. braicovich , and b. keimer , nature phys .",
    "* 7 * , 725 ( 2011 ) .",
    "m. p. m. dean , g. dellea , r. s. springell , f. yakhou - harris , k. kummer , n. b. brookes , x. liu , y .-",
    "sun , j. strle , t. schmitt , l. braicovich , g. ghiringhelli , i. boovi , and j. p. hill , nature materials * 12 * , 1019 ( 2013 ) .",
    "m. p. m. dean , a. j. a. james , r. s. springell , x. liu , c. monney , k. j. zhou , r. m. konik , j. s. wen , z. j. xu , g. d. gu , v. n. strocov , t. schmitt , and j. p. hill , phys .",
    "rev . lett . * 110 * , 147001 ( 2013 ) .",
    "m. le tacon , m. minola , d. c. peets , m. moretti sala , s. blanco - canosa , v. hinkov , r. liang , d. a. bonn , w. n. hardy , c. t. lin , t. schmitt , l. braicovich , g. ghiringhelli , and b. keimer , phys .",
    "b * 88 * , 020501(r ) ( 2013 ) .",
    "l. braicovich , j. van den brink , v. bisogni , m. moretti sala , l. j. p. ament , n. b. brookes , g. m. de luca , m. salluzzo , t. schmitt , v. n. strocov , and g. ghiringhelli , phys .",
    "104 * , 077002 ( 2010 ) .",
    "m. guarise , b. dalla piazza , m. moretti sala , g. ghiringhelli , l. braicovich , h. berger , j. n. hancock , d. van der marel , t. schmitt , v. n. strocov , l. j. p. ament , j. van den brink , p .- h .",
    "lin , p. xu , h. m. rnnow , and m. grioni , phys .",
    "105 * , 157006 ( 2010 ) .",
    "b. j. sternlieb , g. shirane , j. m. tranquada , m. sato , and s. shamoto , phys .",
    "b * 47 * , 5320 ( 1993 ) ; r. j. birgeneau , r. w. erwin , p. g. gehring , m. a. kastner , b. keimer , m. sato , s. shamoto , g. shirane , and j. tranquada , z. phys .",
    "b * 87 * , 15 ( 1992 ) .",
    "a. v. puchkov , p. fournier , t. timusk , and n. n. kolesnikov , phys .",
    "lett . * 77 * , 1853 ( 1996 ) ; a. v. puchkov , p. fournier , d. n. basov , t. timusk , a. kapitulnik , and n. n. kolesnikov , phys .",
    "lett . * 77 * , 3212 ( 1996 ) .",
    "seyed iman mirzaei , damien stricker , jason n. hancock , christophe berthod , antoine georges , erik van heumen , mun k. chan , xudong zhao , yuan li , martin greven , neven barii , and dirk van der marel , pnas * 110 * , 5774 ( 2013 ) .",
    "j. w. loram , k. a. mirza , j. r. cooper , w. y. liang , and j. m. wade , j. supercond .",
    "* 7 * , 243 ( 1994 ) ; j. w. loram , k. a. mirza , j. m. wade , j. r. cooper , and w. y. liang , physica c * 235 - 240 * , 134 ( 1994 ) ; j. w. loram , k. a. mirza , j. r. cooper , and j. l. tallon , physica c * 282 - 287 * , 1405 ( 1997 ) .",
    "w. y. liang , j. w. loram , k. a. mirza , n. athanassopoulou , and j. r. cooper , physica c * 263 * , 277 ( 1996 ) ; j. w. loram , j. l. luo , j. r. cooper , w. y. liang , and j. l. tallon , physica c * 341 - 348 * , 831 ( 2000 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> superconductivity in cuprate superconductors occurs upon charge - carrier doping mott insulators , where a central question is what mechanism causes the loss of electrical resistance below the superconducting transition temperature ? in this review , we attempt to summarize the basic idea of the kinetic - energy driven superconducting mechanism in the description of superconductivity in cuprate superconductors . </S>",
    "<S> the mechanism of the kinetic - energy driven superconductivity is purely electronic without phonons , where the charge - carrier pairing interaction in the particle - particle channel arises directly from the kinetic energy by the exchange of spin excitations in the higher powers of the doping concentration . </S>",
    "<S> this kinetic - energy driven d - wave superconducting - state is controlled by both the superconducting gap and quasiparticle coherence , which leads to that the maximal superconducting transition temperature occurs around the optimal doping , and then decreases in both the underdoped and overdoped regimes . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the same charge - carrier interaction mediated by spin excitations that induces the superconducting - state in the particle - particle channel also generates the normal - state pseudogap state in the particle - hole channel . the normal - state pseudogap crossover temperature is much larger than the superconducting transition temperature in the underdoped and optimally doped regimes , and then monotonically decreases upon the increase of doping , eventually disappearing together with superconductivity at the end of the superconducting dome . </S>",
    "<S> this kinetic - energy driven superconducting mechanism also indicates that the strong electron correlation favors superconductivity , since the main ingredient is identified into a charge - carrier pairing mechanism not from the external degree of freedom such as the phonon but rather solely from the internal spin degree of freedom of the electron . </S>",
    "<S> the typical properties of cuprate superconductors discussed within the framework of the kinetic - energy driven superconducting mechanism are also reviewed . </S>"
  ]
}