{
  "article_text": [
    "the extragalactic background light ( ebl ) has been observed over a wide range of wavelengths to examine the energy density of the universe . in particular , the near - infrared ebl has been thought to provide an important clue to our understanding of the early universe and the evolution of galaxies .",
    "the cosmic background explorer ( cobe ) @xcite and the infrared telescope in space ( irts ) ( @xcite , hereafter referred to as paper i ) discovered that a significant fraction of the near - infrared isotropic emission can not be explained with known foreground emission .",
    "recent akari observations @xcite also show a consistent result with cobe and irts at wavelengths longer than 2 @xmath0 m .",
    "this excess background emission in the near - infrared sky is particularly interesting in light of the recent discovery of large excess fluctuation of the near - infrared sky @xcite .",
    "the results of paper i attracted wide interest due to the high accuracy enabled by the unique low resolution spectroscopy of irts , and its point source detection limit ( @xmath1 11 mag ) which was much deeper than cobe .",
    "however , as @xcite pointed out , paper i did not take the contribution of the diffuse galactic light ( dgl ) into account .",
    "uncertainty of the zodiacal light ( zl ) model has been also raised , since zl is the dominant foreground emission with a spectrum similar to the residual isotropic emission @xcite .    in response to these concerns",
    ", we decided to reanalyze the irts data using up - to - date observations of zl , integrated star light ( isl ) , and dgl .",
    "while in paper i , we adopted the @xcite zl model , in this work , we perform the same analysis using a different zl model ( the so called wright model , @xcite ) , and examine the difference between two models .    the overall outline of the paper is as follows . in section 1",
    ", we briefly present the irts observation and the acquisition of raw data in section 2 . in section 3",
    ", we estimate the contribution of foreground emission , zl , isl and dgl based on the latest observations . in section 4 ,",
    "we search for the residual isotropic emission for two zl models based on the correlation with the sky brightness after subtracting the isl and dgl .",
    "finally , in section 5 , we discuss the astrophysical implications of the detected excess brightness .",
    "we now give a brief description of the irts mission and the data acquisition process .",
    "details of irts mission can be found in paper i.    irts was one of the mission experiments on the small space platform , space flyer unit ( sfu ) , that was launched on march 18 , 1995 . on a low - inclination near - earth orbit , irts continuously surveyed the sky avoiding both the sun and the earth .",
    "irts observations lasted for about 30 days , during which 7% of the sky was surveyed @xcite .",
    "the near infrared spectrometer ( nirs ) is one of the focal plane instruments of irts , and was optimized to obtain spectra of the diffuse background @xcite .",
    "details of the flight performance of nirs can be found in @xcite .",
    "nirs covered a wavelength range from 1.4 @xmath0 m to 4.0 @xmath0ms with a spectral resolution of 0.13 @xmath0 m , providing 24 independent wavelength bands .",
    "the beam size was 8 arcmin square and the detection limit for point sources was @xmath111 mag , and both are considerably better than those of cobe .",
    "the limiting magnitudes at wavelengths shorter and longer than 2.5 @xmath0 m are dominated by the sky fluctuation and readout noise , respectively ( @xcite , paper i ) .",
    "the nirs detectors were of the charge integrating type and the ramp curves with one cycle of 65.54 sec were sent to the ground for all of the 24 wavelength bands .",
    "we retrieved the signal of the sky using 5 sec integration times ( i.e. the signal difference in 5 sec in ramp curve ) , during which no distinguishable stars and no cosmic ray hits were detected in any band .",
    "we obtained signals of the sky brightness after subtracting the dark current when the cold shutter was closed . during each 5 sec integration , the telescope axis moved about 20 arcmin along a great circle , resulting in a trapezoidal beam pattern , 8 arcmin @xmath2 20 arcmin in area . to make the contribution of stars and galactic emission less effective ,",
    "high galactic latitude ( @xmath3 ) data were extracted from the full data set for the background radiation analysis .",
    "the highest galactic latitude was @xmath4 , while the ecliptic latitude ranged from @xmath5 to @xmath6 in the selected sky .",
    "complete spectra of the sky were secured at 1010 fields .",
    "sky coverage of 1010 fields is @xmath1 60% of the surveyed area .",
    "the zodiacal light ( zl ) is the emission component of the solar system which consists of scattered sunlight and thermal emission by interplanetary dust .",
    "we adopted the model by @xcite in paper i , which is a physical model constructed using the seasonal variation of the zl observed with the diffuse infrared background explorer ( dirbe ) on cobe . at the same time",
    ", @xcite proposed a different physical model based on the so called `` strong zodi principle '' assuming no residual emission at 25 @xmath0 m towards the ecliptic pole . in this paper , we use both models and examine the difference of residual isotropic emission .",
    "as for the wright model , we used the model revised by @xcite .",
    "we retrieve the brightness of the zl in the dirbe bands corresponding to the 1010 irts fields at the epoch of the irts observations for both models , and construct the zl model brightness for the irts bands .",
    "we obtain the model spectrum for the scattering and thermal emission part , separately . for the scattering part",
    ", we simply normalize the spectral shape of the sun ( astm g173 - 03 reference system ) at the k band model brightness .",
    "for the thermal part , we extrapolate the m band model brightness to the shorter irts wavelengths , assuming a 300k blackbody in accordance with recent akari observations @xcite .",
    "the zl model spectrum is obtained by summing the scattering part with the thermal emission part .",
    "compared to the model used in paper i , the zl component at wavelengths longer than 3 @xmath0 m is slightly brighter . in the l band ,",
    "our adopted models render a @xmath1 6@xmath7 brighter value than the original model , but still within the uncertainty of the models .",
    "the validity of the adopted zl spectrum will be compared with observations in section 4 .",
    "the integrated star light ( isl ) for stars fainter than the limiting magnitude composes a portion of the foreground emission . the best way to estimate",
    "the isl is to sum the brightness of stars in the 2mass catalog that fall within the beam , however , the uncertainty of the attitude determination and irregular beam pattern elongated along scan path makes this analysis difficult . while , in paper i , we applied the sky model @xcite , and assume a simple @xmath8 law to the model isl at three selected fields , in this paper , we obtain the model isl based on an improved model , that is , the trilegal galaxy model @xcite .",
    "we further calculate isl for 12 equally - spaced fields along the scan path for the i , j , h , k@xmath9 , l , and l@xmath9 bands .",
    "since the fluctuation of the isl is not negligible , we perform 50 monte - carlo simulations for a 1 square degree field for all trilegal stars fainter than the irts limiting magnitude and assign their average values to be the trilegal isl . however , the overall uncertainty of the trilegal model is so large , that we must calibrate the trilegal isl by comparing with the 2mass isl for the h and k bands .",
    "the 2mass isl is obtained by summing the isl for the 2mass stars fainter than the irts limiting magnitudes , and that for stars fainter than 2mass limiting magnitudes ( 15.8 mag for the j band and 15.1 mag for the h band ; @xcite ) which is estimated by adopting the trilegal model .",
    "contribution of the latter part to the 2mass isl is only a few percent .",
    "fig.1 shows the correlation between the trilegal isl and the 2mass isl for the 12 selected fields . left and",
    "right panels indicate the results for the h and k bands , respectively . horizontal errors in fig.1 represent the 1 @xmath10 dispersion of the trilegal isl as a result of these monte - carlo simulations and indicate the expected fluctuation of trilegal isl .",
    "fig.1 clearly indicates that the 2mass isl is brighter than the trilegal isl both for the h and k bands , and the scatter of the 2mass isl is consistent with that expected from the trilegal model .",
    "based on this analysis , we finally obtain the model isl by multiplying trilegal isl by 1.23 with 8 @xmath7 error .",
    "the isl for the 1010 fields observed with irts was obtained by interpolating the two neighboring model fields assuming a @xmath8 law .",
    "the isl for 24 of the irts bands was estimated by interpolating the model isl using the blackbody spectrum with the same limiting magnitudes as in paper i.    besides the model errors , we calculate the model isl for variation of @xmath11 0.5 mag in the limiting magnitude and assigned the difference to be peak - to - peak errors .",
    "this error is a little lower than the error due to uncertainty of the model isl .",
    "the model isl thus obtained renders a more reliable brightness and spatial distribution than that of paper i.      light ( dgl ) the dgl was not taken into account in paper i as a foreground emission , as mentioned in @xcite , since no reliable observation of dgl was reported at that time and the contribution of dgl to the overall sky brightness was thought to be small .",
    "recently new observations of the near - infrared dgl have been attained , and we attempt to estimate the dgl for the irts fields and bands . @xcite",
    "obtained low resolution spectra of the diffuse sky with akari for the wavelengths ranging from 2 @xmath0 m to 5 @xmath0 m , detecting a clear correlation between the near - infrared sky brightness and the far - infrared emission ( 100 @xmath0 m , @xcite ) . a pah band at 3.3 @xmath0 m was clearly detected , however",
    ", the detection was limited to the galactic plane at @xmath12 .",
    "@xcite performed a similar correlation analysis with data from the low resolution spectrometer ( lrs ) @xcite , one of the instruments on the sounding rocket experiment , ciber ( cosmic infrared background experiment , @xcite ) .",
    "they also detected a clear correlation with the far - infrared emission for the wavelength range from 0.95 @xmath0 m to 1.65 @xmath0 m at high galactic latitudes .",
    "fig.2 summarizes their results .",
    "the ratio of the dgl to the far - infrared ( 100 @xmath0 m ) emission is shown in units of nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 / @xmath0wm@xmath13sr@xmath14 . filled and",
    "open circles represent the result of ciber and akari , respectively .",
    "the ciber result indicates scattered star light by interstellar dust , and the akari result shows the thermal emission of the fine dust particles transiently heated by a single uv photon .",
    "we fit the scattered part with the zda04-bc03 @xcite model recommended by @xcite , as is shown with the dotted line . as for the thermal part ,",
    "it is not clear that the akari result can be applied to the dgl at high galactic latitudes , since @xcite reported lower level of thermal dgl than expected from fig.2 at higher galactic latitudes .",
    "therefore , we first assume that no thermal part exists at irts fields where galactic latitudes are higher than @xmath15 .",
    "the thermal contribution , especially from the 3.3 @xmath0 m pah feature will be discussed again in section 4 . adopted values for irts bands",
    "are shown by open squares in fig.2 for which an error of @xmath16 was applied .",
    "we used the far - infrared map compiled by @xcite , and retrieved 100 @xmath0 m brightness for a 12 arcmin diameter fov for the 1010 irts fields . using the ratio of the dgl to the 100 @xmath0 m brightness ( fig.2 ) , we are able to obtain dgl for 24 irts bands and for 1010 irts fields .",
    "we attempt to obtain the residual isotropic emission with same procedure as paper i. first , we subtract the isl and dgl from the observed sky brightness and make a correlation analysis with the model zl brightness .",
    "the upper sets of data points in fig.3 show typical correlation diagrams at 1.8 @xmath0 m both for the kelsall model ( left panel ) and the wright model ( right panel ) . for both models",
    ", we find an excellent linear correlation for all wavelength bands , and intersection of linear fit line at @xmath17 provides the residual isotropic emission .",
    "the lower sets of data points in fig.3 show the individual residual emission for the 1010 irts fields at 1.8 @xmath0 m after subtracting all foreground emission components , demonstrating that the residual emission is fairly isotropic .",
    "since error levels are almost same for two models , it must be noted that there is no clear preference between these two models .",
    "fig.4 shows the dependence of the residual emission at 1.8 @xmath0 m on the galactic latitudes for the case of the kelsall model .",
    "data points indicate averaged values for 10 degrees along the galactic longitude . filled circles and open circles indicate the result of present work and that of paper i , respectively .",
    "the large scale structure observed in paper i disappeared , and the data points of the present work show random scatter .",
    "this improvement is mainly due to our revision of the isl model .",
    "fig.5 shows slopes of the linear fit line both for the kelsall and wright model . in both models , slopes are a few percent larger than 1.0 , which is consistent with paper i. we regard this as the deviation of the zl spectrum from the solar spectrum which reflects the physical properties of interplanetary dust .",
    "the zl spectrum can be obtained by multiplying the solar spectrum by these values , showing reddening of the zl color at near - infrared wavelengths .",
    "the observed spectrum smoothly connects to the zl spectrum from 0.75 to 1.6 @xmath0 m observed with ciber and is consistent with the j band brightness of the kelsall model based on the dirbe data ( see fig . 9 in @xcite ) .",
    "fig.6 shows the residual isotropic emission obtained for both the kelsall and wright model , with two different sets of error bars .",
    "the inner and outer error bars indicate the random and total error , respectively . aside from the random error ,",
    "the systematic error makes the spectrum change in the same direction .",
    "random errors include : fitting errors from correlation analysis , isl errors due to limiting magnitudes , calibration errors , and dgl errors .",
    "systematic errors are due to model errors of zl and isl . as paper",
    "i , errors in the zl model are estimated by interpolating the uncertainties in the original model ( table 7 in @xcite ) .",
    "zl model error is the dominant source of error and amounts to @xmath1 80 @xmath7 of total error .",
    "table 1 indicates numerical values for the residual emission and their error for two models .",
    "compared with residual emission in paper i , which is based on the kelsall model , the peak brightness of the residual emission of the present work is @xmath1 11 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 lower .",
    "the residual emission at wavelengths longer than 2 @xmath0 m is almost the same as that of paper i. a flat spectrum for the three shortest wavelength bands is a characteristic feature found in this analysis .",
    "the residual emission obtained by adopting the wright model for the zl provides @xmath1 7 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 lower peak value than that obtained by adopting the kelsall model but the spectral shape is very similar to each other .",
    "fig.6 implies that there exists excess near - infrared isotropic residual emission independent of the choice of the two zl models used here .",
    "additionally , we make the same analysis including the thermal part of the dgl . in this case ,",
    "residual emission at 3.28 @xmath0 m pah feature is estimated to be @xmath120 @xmath7 ( @xmath1 2.6 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 ) lower than that of fig.6 , causing a sharp absorbing feature in the spectrum of the residual emission .",
    "we also find that the sky brightness at 3.28 @xmath0 m after subtracting zl and isl shows no correlation with far - infrared sky brightness .",
    "these results favor the non - existence of the pah feature at high galactic latitudes , however , this is not conclusive given that random noise at 3.28 @xmath0 m is so large . in any case , the contribution of the thermal part of dgl is almost negligible and does not significantly change the final result .",
    "fig.7 shows the breakdown of the emission components whose spectra are obtained as the average brightness at high ecliptic latitudes ( @xmath18 ) and high galactic latitudes ( @xmath19 ) for the case of the kelsall model .",
    "the zl spectrum indicated is obtained by applying the result of correlation analysis ( fig.5 ) .",
    "the residual isotropic emission amounts to @xmath1 @xmath20 of the zl , and this is comparable with the seasonal variation of the zl .    fig.8 summarizes the observations of the residual isotropic emission for which the kelsall model is applied for the zl .",
    "typical two observations @xcite are shown for cobe data .",
    "solid line indicates the model of the integrated light of galaxies ( ilg ) by @xcite , which is consistent with deep galaxy counts @xcite .",
    "the brightness of this work is a little lower than that in paper i , but still consistent with cobe and akari @xcite .",
    "it must be emphasized that these three satellite observations render consistent residual emission within error , although the beam size and limiting magnitudes are completely different . in the optical region ,",
    "two new observations are plotted .",
    "@xcite re - analyzed the pioneer 10/11 data , where the zl is negligible near the jupiter orbit , while @xcite attempted to detect the ebl using shadowing effect of dark cloud at high galactic latitude .",
    "both results show that the observed background brightness is consistent with the known foreground emission . on the other hand ,",
    "hst observations by @xcite show fairly bright residual emission at a similar level as this work .",
    "fig.9 indicates excess brightness over ilg . since some galaxies are already removed in @xcite and @xcite , we subtracted 10 and 50 @xmath7 of the ilg ( solid line in fig .",
    "8) from their data in fig.8 , respectively , based on ilg magnitude relationship by @xcite .",
    "we find improved consistency between irts and akari data .",
    "as already mentioned in paper i , the blue rayleigh - jeans like spectrum is clearly seen at wavelengths longer than 1.6 @xmath0 m .",
    "it has been suspected that the residual isotropic emission is a part of the zl since the spectrum of the residual isotropic emission is similar to that of the zl @xcite .",
    "however , it is not so easy to construct the new zl model which includes the residual isotropic emission , since the residual emission is comparable to the seasonal variation of the zl . one possible approach is to add the new dust component which has a heliocentric and spherically symmetric distribution .",
    "it is , however , difficult to maintain the spherically symmetric distribution of interplanetary dust of inner solar system due to the perturbation by planets .",
    "maintaining the supply of dust against pointing - robertson drag is also difficult .",
    "these considerations imply that the new dust component must be beyond the orbit of jupiter . if we attribute the residual isotropic emission to the scattered sunlight by interplanetary dust , the brightness extrapolated to visible wavelengths amounts to @xmath1 100 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 , assuming a solar spectrum .",
    "the existence of such a component , however , is not detected with pioneer 10/11 observations @xcite .",
    "a recent reanalysis of the pioneer 10/11 data by @xcite confirms that the residual isotropic emission near the orbit of jupiter is less than 10 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 at 0.44 and 0.64 @xmath0 m .",
    "these results indicate that the new dust component does not exist , otherwise the new component dust has peculiar optical properties .",
    "the light of the first stars at the re - ionization epoch is another possible emission source which has been thought to be an important clue to delineate the star formation history of the universe .",
    "however , recent theoretical works based on high redshift galaxies predict much less contribution of the first stars to the near - infrared background @xcite .",
    "it has been thought that the spatial fluctuation of the sky directly provides the characteristic feature of the ebl , since the fluctuation of the zl is so low @xcite .",
    "large fluctuations at angles larger than 100 arcsec that can not be explained with the known foreground sources are detected with spitzer at 3.6 and 4.5 @xmath0 m @xcite and akari at 2.4 , 3.6 and 4.2 @xmath0 m @xcite .",
    "recent spitzer @xcite and akari @xcite observations confirm that flat fluctuation spectra extend to degree scales .",
    "the spectrum of fluctuation is blue rayleigh - jeans like @xcite and clear spatial correlations are found for both akari and spitzer wavelengths .",
    "@xcite recently report the result of sounding rocket observations with ciber .",
    "they detect large fluctuation at 1.1 and 1.6 @xmath0 m . in fig.9",
    "we over - plot the result of fig.2 in @xcite as large filled squares .",
    "unit is shown in right ordinate with same dynamic range as excess brightness .",
    "the spectrum of the fluctuations is similar to the excess brightness , suggesting that the excess fluctuation and brightness may be of same origin .",
    "a ratio of the absolute brightness to the fluctuation , @xmath21 , is @xmath1 30 .",
    "furthermore , @xcite find excellent spatial correlation among 1.1 , 1.6 and spitzer 3.6 @xmath0 m . since no clear signature of redshifted lyman @xmath22",
    "is detected , they conclude that the first stars are not the source of excess fluctuation .",
    "they also exclude direct - collapsed black holes ( dcbhs ) model @xcite , since the detected fluctuation is too high and the color is quite different from the prediction .",
    "@xcite claim that the large portion of the observed fluctuation can be explained with intra halo light ( ihl ) and estimate the surface brightness of ihl to be comparable to that of ilg .",
    "it must be emphasized that the quoted ebl ( ilg plus ihl ) is still a few times lower than that of the residual emission obtained in this work .    at present",
    ", there is no definite emission source which can explain the observed excess brightness .",
    "more observational and theoretical work is needed to delineate the emission source of excess brightness and fluctuation .",
    "the reanalysis of the irts data was performed to obtain improved and more reliable measurement of the near - infrared residual isotropic emission .",
    "we revised the estimation of the integrated star light due to faint unresolved stars and the thermal emission part of the zodiacal light spectrum .",
    "we take the diffuse galactic light into account based on the recent observations with akari and ciber . besides the kelsall model for the zodiacal light used in paper i , another model , the wright model ,",
    "was examined , too .",
    "the result for the kelsall model shows peak value of 60 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 which is @xmath1 11 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 lower than that of paper i. this is still considerably brighter than the integrated light of galaxies ( ilg ) .",
    "the result for the wright model shows peak value of 53 nwm@xmath13sr@xmath14 which is slightly fainter than that of the kelsall model .",
    "both models render significant residual isotropic emission that can not be explained with known foreground emission sources .",
    "the authors thank shuji matsuura and toshiaki arai for their encouragement and valuable comments . thanks are also due to edward l. wright for his courtesy in providing the code of his zodiacal light model .",
    "k.t . was supported by kakenhi ( 26800112 ) from jsps , japan .",
    "this publication makes use of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "arai , t. et al .",
    "2015 , , accepted ( arxiv:1503.04926 ) bernstein , r. a. 2007 , , 666 , 663 brandt , t. d. , & draine , b. t. 2012 , , 744 , 129 cambrsy , l. , reach , w. t. , beichman , v. a. & jarrett , t. h. 2001 , , 555 , 563 cohen , m. 1997 , asp conf .",
    "series , 124 , diffuse infrared radiation and the irts eds .",
    "h. okuda , t. matsumoto & t. roellig , 61 cooray , a. et al .",
    "2012 , nature , 490 , 514 cooray , a. et al .",
    "2012 , , 756 , 92 dwek , e. , arendt , r. g. , & krennrich , f. 2005 , , 635 , 784 girardi , l. , gronewegen , m. a. , hatziminaglou , e. & costa , d. da 2005 , , 436 , 895 gorjian , v. wright , e. & chary , r. r. 2000 , 536 , 550 hanner , m. s. et al .",
    "1974 , , 79 , 3671 kashlinsky , a. , arendt , r. g. , mather , j. , & moseley , s. h. 2005 , nature , 438 , 45 kashlinsky , a. , arendt , r. g. , mather , j. , & moseley , s. h. 2007a , , 654 , l5 kashlinsky , a. , arendt , r. g. , mather , j. , & moseley , s. h. 2007b , , 666 , l1 kashlinsky , a. et al .",
    "2012 , , 753 , 63 keenan , r. c. , barger a. j. , cowie l. l. , & wang , w. -h .",
    "2010 , , 723 , 40 kelsall , t. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 508 , 44 levenson , l. r. , wright , e. l. & johnson , b. d. 2007 , , 666 , 34 matsumoto , t. , et al .",
    "2011 , , 742 , 124 ( paper i ) matsumoto , t. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 626 , 31 mattila , k. 2006 , , 372 , 1253 mattila , k. , et al .",
    "2011 , proceedings iau symoisium no .",
    "284 , 429 murakami , h. et al .",
    "1996 , , 48 , l41 matsuoka , y. , ienaka , n. , kawara , k. & oyabu , s. 2011 , , 736 , 119 noda , m. et al .",
    "1994 , , 428 , 363 noda , m. et al .",
    "1996 , spie , 2817 , 248 seo , h. j. et al .",
    "2014 , , accepted ( arxiv:1504.05681 ) schlegel , d. j. , finkbeiner , d. p. , & davis , m. 1998 , , 500 , 525 skrutskie , m. , f. 2006 , , 131 , 1163 pyo , j. , matsumoto , t. , jeong , w. s. & matsuura , s. 2012 , , 760 , 102 totani , t . &",
    "yoshii , y. 2000 , , 540 , 81 tsumura , k. et al . 2010 , , 719 , 394 tsumura , k. et al . 2013a , , 207 , 33 tsumura , k. , matsumoto , t. , matsuura , s. , sakon , i. , pyo , j. & wada , t. 2013b , , 65 , 119 tsumura , k. , matsumoto , t. , matsuura , s. , sakon , i. , tanaka , m. & wada , t. 2013c , , 65 , 120 tsumura , k. , matsumoto , t. , matsuura , s. , sakon , i. , & wada , t. 2013d , , 65 , 121 wright , e. 1998 , , 496 , 1 wright , e. l. & reese , e. d. 2000 , , 545 , 43 yue , et al .",
    "2013 , , 431 , 383 yue , et al .",
    "2013 , , 433 , 1556 zemcov , m. et al .",
    "2013 , , 207 , 31 zemcov , m. et al .",
    "2014 , science , 346 , 732"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we reanalyze data of near - infrared background taken by infrared telescope in space ( irts ) based on up - to - date observational results of zodiacal light , integrated star light and diffuse galactic light . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm the existence of residual isotropic emission , which is slightly lower but almost the same as previously reported . at wavelengths longer than 2 @xmath0 m </S>",
    "<S> , the result is fairly consistent with the recent observation with akari . </S>",
    "<S> we also perform the same analysis using a different zodiacal light model by wright and detected residual isotropic emission that is slightly lower than that based on the original kelsall model . </S>",
    "<S> both models show the residual isotropic emission that is significantly brighter than the integrated light of galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}