{
  "article_text": [
    "it is well known that quantum mechanics does not allow to predict the result of individual measurements but only the probabilities associated to each of the possible results .",
    "the origin of this randomness has been be subject to much debate since the early days of the quantum theory .",
    "whereas no completely satisfactory solution to this dilemma is currently accepted , there are some results which assert that a theory explaining the statistical nature of the quantum mechanics should present some `` weird '' properties . for example , because of the violations of bell s inequalities @xcite , it is commonly argued that it not possible to find a theory `` completing '' the quantum mechanics keeping the causal structure of the einstein s relativity ( nonlocality ) .",
    "another result originally due to kocher and specker ( ks ) @xcite claims that in such a more fundamental theory the value of some observable can not depend only on the state of the system , but also on the particular apparatus used to measure it ( contextuality ) .",
    "more explicitly , this kind of arguments rely on the following hypotheses :    1 .   _",
    "realism_. without entering into very philosophical issues , and quite focused on our context , realism is essentially the belief there exist a physical reality independent of observers and measurement processes . in other words ,",
    "the properties of physical systems have predefined values before its measurement , or even in the absence of it ; measurements just reveal these values .",
    "_ noncontextuality_. it asserts that the predefined values assumed to exist by realism are independent of how the observer manages to measure them . in particular , in the framework of the quantum mechanics , it implies that the value of a quantum observable is independent of which other compatible observables are measured along with it .",
    "locality_. it is the statement that the value of an observable measured at some point of the spacetime does not depend on whether or not another observable is measured in another point causally disconnected ( i.e. space - like separated ) from the first one . in practical terms locality",
    "is a special case of noncontextuality , as local observables are a particular case of compatible observables .",
    "different versions of the bell - ks theorem claim that quantum mechanics can not satisfy 1 and 2 ( quantum contextuality ) or 1 and 3 ( quantum nonlocality ) .",
    "however , there is another very fundamental property not satisfied in these results :    1 .   _",
    "absence of incompatible statistics_. we shall say that a theory presents `` incompatible statistics '' if it is able to assign concrete values ( or bounds ) to the statistics of joint measurements of two or more noncommuting quantum observables .",
    "it is the main goal of this work to point out that bell - ks - like arguments do not exclude completely the possible realistic and noncontextual or local character of quantum mechanics .",
    "what they exclude is the existence of realistic and noncontextual or local alternative theories accounting for the results of quantum experiments , and assigning values or ( nontrivial ) bounds to statistics of joint measurements of two ( or more ) noncommutative observables ; i.e. not satisfying 4 above .",
    "however , if one requires those models to be unable to make statistical statements on a joint measurement of two noncommutative observables [ i.e. assumptions 1&2(or 3)&4 above ] , as the quantum mechanics does , none of them , up to our knowledge , is in contradiction with quantum mechanics .    to explain why the presence of `` incompatible statistics '' is tacitly assumed in the bell - ks theorem",
    ", we shall focus our discussions on proofs assuming noncontextuality . since locality is a particular case of noncontextuality",
    "there is no loss of generality .",
    "specifically , in the subsequent sections we analyze two simple proofs of `` quantum contextuality '' .",
    "the arguments given there should convince the reader that a similar line of reasoning can be applied to other more complicated proofs . a comment on the relation of our conclusions with the locality assumption and with proofs involving inequalities shall be given later on .",
    "in a recent paper cabello et al . @xcite have given a simple proof of quantum contextuality which is specially convenient for our purposes .",
    "in this proof , they consider five boxes which can be either empty or full .",
    "thus , the notation @xmath0 is adopted to represent the probability that the box @xmath1 is full `` 1 '' , and the box @xmath2 is empty `` 0 '' , and likewise for both boxes full and both empty .",
    "then , consider that the boxes are prepared in some state such that the following two equations are satisfied @xmath3 by assuming that the result of finding the boxes empty or full is predetermined and independent of which boxes are opened ( i.e. noncontextuality of results ) it is easy to conclude that @xmath4 however , this implication fails to hold for quantum systems .",
    "the counterexample is given by a three - level system in the state @xmath5 .",
    "the role of opening the boxes is played by measuring the projectors onto the five states : @xmath6 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 , and @xmath10 , whereas empty and full are equivalent to obtain the result 0 or 1 , respectively .",
    "since the states @xmath11 and @xmath12 are orthogonal , the respective projectors @xmath13 and @xmath14 are compatible , and the joint probability to obtain the result 0 for @xmath15 and 1 for @xmath16 is well defined and given by @xmath17 .",
    "the same happens for the other four probabilities in , , and , and we obtain @xmath18 , however @xmath19 , which contradicts .",
    "this contradiction seems to indicate that `` the value a quantum observable is not predetermined and independent of which other compatible observables are measured along with it '' . in other words , apparently the quantum mechanics does not satisfy the two aforementioned properties @xmath20 simultaneously .",
    "now , after a careful checking , the reader will not have any problem to conclude that if and are satisfied , and the results are predetermined and independent of which boxes are opened , not only the condition is fulfilled but also @xmath21 must be satisfied as well .",
    "thus , the conditions and state the impossibility of some results of any pair of boxes .",
    "however , in the quantum counterexample only statements about outcomes of the measurement pairs @xmath22 , @xmath23 , @xmath24 , @xmath25 and @xmath26 can be made , for the rest of combinations quantum mechanics can not say anything as the corresponding projectors are not orthogonal .",
    "hence , this is an example of noncontextual and realistic model presenting `` incompatible statistics '' when trying to reproduce the results of a quantum experiment .",
    "note that , in order to avoid quantum incompatible joint statistics here , we would need to consider a set of five compatible quantum measurements , which means to consider five orthogonal projectors .",
    "since the space has dimension 3 , this is not possible .",
    "even so , no violations of eq . can be obtained for orthogonal projections because the theory in essentially classical in that case , as there is no noncommuting object involved .",
    "therefore , a acuter interpretation of the violation of condition eq .",
    "is that `` under the assumption that it is possible to assign concrete values on the results of some incompatible quantum measurements , the values of a quantum observable can not be not predetermined and independent of which other compatible observables are measured along with it '' . in other words , nothing about the contextuality and realism of quantum mechanics seems to be concluded from the violation of eq .",
    ", unless we assume that it is possible to assign concrete statistics to incompatible quantum measurements .",
    "the joint hypothesis 1&2 is not violated , what is violated is 1&2&4 .",
    "it may be thought that this way to understand the violation of eq .",
    "is something particular to this model , which might not apply in other proofs of quantum contextuality ; in fact , there are many proofs of this @xcite .",
    "then , we may pose the following question : is it possible to prove quantum contextuality avoiding predictions involving quantum incompatible observables ?",
    ", the answer seems to be negative . to illustrate why that is the case",
    ", we shall analyze another proof based on an argument of ks type .",
    "in @xcite mermin suggested a nice and pedagogical proof of the bell - ks theorem ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "the proof is formulated with an arrangement of three qubits , so that the total space is eight - dimensional .",
    "mermin considers ten observables which , for illustrative purposes , can be sited along the intersection points of a star , fig .",
    "the observables only take the values 1 or @xmath27 , and by @xmath28 we denote the ( predetermined value of the ) result of the measurement for the observable at the point labeled by @xmath2 , considered to be independent of which other observables are measured along with it . by hypothesis",
    "we consider that the following equations are satisfied : @xmath29 these correspond to the multiplication of the results of a measurement of the four observables along each non - horizontal line of the star . now , since the measurement results are supposed to be predetermined and independent of which other observables are also measured , we can multiply the four equations and , because @xmath30 , we obtain @xmath31 therefore , we conclude that if eqs . ",
    "are satisfied , the product of results of a joint measurement of the four observables along the horizonal line of the star has to be 1 .",
    "consider now a quantum observable given by the self - adjoint operator @xmath32 .",
    "we define a `` valuation '' function @xmath33 that assigns a numerical value to the observable @xmath32 with the aim to be its value before ( and after ) its measurement . so that @xmath33 takes values on the spectrum of @xmath32 .",
    "now , there is a very natural condition to be imposed on this function ; if @xmath34 is a set of mutually commuting observables , and some functional relation of the form @xmath35 is satisfied , then @xmath36=0 $ ] .",
    "it is crucial that this is imposed only on a set of commuting observables , i.e. observables that can be measured jointly , otherwise it is easy to find trivial contradictions . actually this point involving noncommuting observables",
    "was observed by bell @xcite as an implicit premise in the von neumann s proof about the impossibility of hidden variable theories @xcite . from a mathematical point of view",
    "the implication @xmath37=0 $ ] for a commuting set @xmath34 can be motivated because they share the same spectral basis .",
    "for instance , consider that @xmath38 , then @xmath39 is a quantum observable with eigenvalue 0 . because the commutation , the spectral basis of @xmath40 is also the spectral basis of each of @xmath41 and the eigenvalues of @xmath39 are given simply by adding sequences of eigenvalues of @xmath41 .",
    "since , by assumption , all of these sums have to be 0 , and the valuation function @xmath33 only takes values on the spectrum of @xmath32 , we conclude that @xmath42 .",
    "coming back to eqs .  , suppose now that @xmath43 , where the choice of observables @xmath44 is given in fig .",
    "all of these observables take values @xmath45 or @xmath27 , and the observables sharing the same line in the star are commuting . precisely from this commutation it is immediate to check that eqs . ",
    "are satisfied , i.e. the multiplication of the observables on each nonhorizontal line gives the identity , and then the same relation is fulfilled for its predetermined values given the valuation function @xmath46 .",
    "therefore , if the values of these quantum observables are predetermined and independent of which other observables are measured along with it , eq .",
    "must be also satisfied .",
    "however this is not true , because the product of the observables on the horizontal line is @xmath47 , and they are commuting : @xmath48    thus , one could conclude again , as in the previous section , that `` the value a quantum observable is not predetermined and independent of which other compatible observables are measured along with it '' . nevertheless , again",
    ", sensu stricto , this conclusion should be stated as `` under the assumption that it is possible to assign concrete values on the results of some incompatible quantum measurements , the values of a quantum observable can not be not predetermined and independent of which other compatible observables are measured along with it '' .",
    "the reason for this is given in the arrangement of results in fig .",
    "1(c ) . from eqs .",
    "and this combination of results is impossible because condition implies @xmath49 whereas condition imposes @xmath50 , so that in the the notation of the previous section , @xmath51 .",
    "however , quantumly this combination can not be considered to be impossible or possible with some probability because it would imply to make simultaneous measurements of two or more non - commuting observables , see fig .",
    "despite we have analyzed just two versions of the bell - ks theorem ( an analysis of all of them is very far from the scope of this paper ) , we aimed at illustrating sufficiently well why it is not feasible to find a proof of quantum contextuality without the tacit assumption that there exist concrete assigned values for the joint statistics of some quantum incompatible events .",
    "namely , the proofs of contextuality are based on several `` test '' equations that must be satisfied for a realistic and noncontextual theory [ e.g. eqs .  and eqs .  ] . in order to find a contradiction with some of these test equations",
    "it is necessary that the set of quantum measurements includes some incompatible events ( despite that only joint measurements of compatible events are required to check these equations ) , otherwise the situation reduces to an essentially classical theory in the common spectral basis .",
    "however , if there are incompatible measurements , by substituting in the test equations some particular values of two or more of these incompatible measurement ( as many as needed ) , it is always possible to find to a situation which violates the test equations but that the quantum mechanics can not falsify because it involves the joint measurement of two or more incompatible observables .",
    "thus , the presence of `` incompatible statistics '' can be seen a loophole to escape from the standard conclusions of the bell - ks theorem .",
    "it is worth to comment the relation of the previous results with the local realism as tested by bell inequalities .",
    "first of all , as the reader might have already noted , the hardy like and mermin s ten observable proof are very convenient as both can be recast to test local realism . with the substitution of the noncontextuality assumption by the locality one , see @xcite and @xcite for each of them respectively .",
    "thus , the apparent violation of the local realism can be again reinterpreted as a byproduct of the tacit assumption that the considered local models assign probabilities to incompatible events in quantum mechanics .",
    "a similar thing happens with proofs based on inequalities .",
    "for instance , if @xmath52 , @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath55 are random variables taking values @xmath56 , it can be proved that @xcite : @xmath57 which is the so - named chsh inequality , and where @xmath58 denotes the average over some ensemble .",
    "quantum mechanics violates this inequality for spin observables of two particles @xmath59 , @xmath60 , @xmath61 and @xmath62 , where @xmath63 stands for the pauli matrix in the direction @xmath64 .",
    "the @xmath65 observables are always compatible with the @xmath66 observables , but @xmath52 and @xmath53 must be incompatible to obtain a violation of , and the same applies to @xmath54 and @xmath55 . from this fact we can derive a bound from eq . which involves the simultaneous measurement of incompatible observables .",
    "to that aim it is convenient to rewrite in terms of probabilities . by expanding the correlations functions and because of the dichotomic character of the results , we obtain the compact expression @xmath67 , where @xmath68 denotes the probability to obtain the same result in the simultaneous measurement of @xmath65 and @xmath66 .",
    "thus , eq . reads @xmath69 then , by taking into account that @xmath70 for whatever observables @xmath71 , we can conclude that @xmath72 hence , we have obtained a statement about the probability , @xmath73 , which inevitably requires the simultaneous measurement of noncommuting observables .",
    "this inequality explicitly manifests the implicit presence of `` incompatible statistics '' in the chsh inequality @xcite .    in summary ,",
    "arguments with inequalities also presents statement about incompatible statistics .",
    "in this work we have analyzed several versions of the bell - ks theorem with the goal of explaining why there exist no conflict with the assumptions of realism and noncontextuality ( or locality ) , unless we assume the existence of assigned values or bounds on joint probabilities of quantum incompatible measurements . from a different point of view",
    ", the bell - ks theorem can be reinterpreted as the absence of a theory providing predictions to quantum incompatible measurements respecting the properties of realism and noncontextuality or locality .",
    "therefore , if one accepts the belief that quantum incompatible events are indeed incompatible , it does not seem to be any problem to assume quantum mechanics to be realistic and noncontextual ( or local ) , because any trial to find some contradiction seems to inevitably require the assumption that there exist concrete values or bound for joint measurements of incompatible quantum observables .",
    "in this regard , although in the present work a mathematical proof precluding a quantum contradiction with realism and noncontextuality while keeping absence of incompatible statistics has not be given , we hope to have provided sufficient arguments to support that such a contradiction , if possible , needs an alternative line of reasoning different from the existent ones .",
    "we are grateful to alfredo luis for illuminating discussions . financial support by the spanish mineco grant fis2012 - 33152 and the cam research consortium quitemad+ grant s2013/ice-2801 is acknowledged .",
    "see for example : a. peres , j. phys .",
    "a : math . gen . * 24 * , l175 ( 1991 ) ; j. r. zimba and r. penrose , stud .",
    "* 24 * , 697 ( 1993 ) ; m. kernaghan , j. phys . a : math .",
    "gen * 27 * , l829 ( 1994 ) , a. cabello , j. estebaranz and g. garca - alcaine , phys .",
    "a * 212 * , 183 ( 1996 ) ; a. cabello and g. garca - alcaine , j. phys .",
    "a : math . gen . * 29 * , 1025 ( 1996 ) and references therein .                during the completion of this work , we have been aware of the work `` m. ukowski and c. brukner , j. phys .",
    "a : math . theor . * 47 * , 424009 ( 2014 ) '' , where the authors points out that the violation of bell s inequalities requires a premise equivalent to the existence of joint probabilities of all conceivable measurements .",
    "the result of eq . above provides a nontrivial bound to the value of one of these probabilities ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze a possible loophole to the conclusion of the bell - ks theorem that quantum mechanics is not compatible with any realistic and noncontextual or local theory . </S>",
    "<S> we emphasize that the models discarded by bell - ks - like arguments possess a property not shared by quantum mechanics , i.e. the capability to make non - trivial statements about the joint statistics of quantum incompatible observables . by ruling out this possibility </S>",
    "<S> , apparently nothing seems to prevent from a realistic , noncontextual or local view of quantum mechanics . </S>"
  ]
}