{
  "article_text": [
    "the search for exoplanets has traditionally concentrated on stars with very little intrinsic activity .",
    "studies have shown that the known exoplanet host stars exhibit very low levels of magnetic activity ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "still , as the kepler satellite has shown , many solar - like stars are more active than our sun ( e.g. , basri et al . 2013 ) , and therefore show significant levels of activity , which can affect the planet detection .",
    "the spectral line - profile variations caused by starspots have been confused with a radial velocity signal originating from exoplanets ( e.g. , @xcite ) and the sudden brightenings caused by stellar flares can mimic microlensing events from a planet sized body ( e.g. , @xcite ) . magnetic activity , and the phenomena related to it , are an integral part of stars with spectral types ranging from mid - f to m , and as these are the stars most exoplanet searches concentrate on , it is crucial to understand the effects activity sets on exoplanet detection and parameter determination .",
    "the exoplanet detection method most prone to confusion from stellar activity is the radial velocity search .",
    "already , @xcite showed that cool spots on the stellar surface cause spectral line - profile variations that can be confused with the radial velocity variations from planets .",
    "in addition , they derived an analytical formula to represent the relation of this radial velocity jitter to the fraction of stellar surface covered by starspots ( starspot filling factor ) .",
    "other similar investigations have been carried out , see , e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "also , @xcite provided a freely available tool , soap ( spot oscillation and planet ) , for the community to investigate the effects of starspots on radial velocity measurements and photometric observations .",
    "the code was expanded and improved by @xcite to include planetary transits on a spotted star , and a new modified version , soap 2.0 , was recently published by @xcite .",
    "most planet searches have concentrated on solar - like stars .",
    "therefore , there have also been relatively many investigations on the effect of solar activity on exoplanet detection ( see , e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite used solar activity as a template to study the effect of spots and plages on detectability of earth - mass exoplanets in the habitable zone of their host star .",
    "they conclude that especially the contribution from the plages would prevent the detection of earth around the sun , even with forthcoming high precision instruments .",
    "these investigations have concentrated on plages and spots , but these are not the only error sources .",
    "granulation and stellar oscillations also cause noise at m / s level ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) , which will hinder the detection of small sized planets , and planets on wide orbits . still , the timescale for these noise sources is much shorter than the variations caused by long - period planets , therefore they can be averaged out using long exposures and/or observing frequently .",
    "a new potential noise source , gravitational redshift , was identified recently by @xcite , but its magnitude is estimated to be only few cm / s .",
    "photometric observations have been used to estimate the activity - induced jitter in radial velocity measurements ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) . in a recent work based on galex ultraviolet measurements and",
    "kepler light - curves @xcite investigate how well the radial velocity jitter can be estimated based on photometry alone .",
    "they conclude that for magnetically quiet stars one can use photometric measurements as a proxy for radial velocity variability .",
    "@xcite developed a technique to use the radial velocity method for detecting planets even when the host star shows significant activity .",
    "their method relies on the wavelength dependence of the spot - caused jitter as opposed to the planetary signature which is not wavelength dependent .",
    "@xcite have also shown that for active stars it is possible to remove some of the spot signature from the line - profiles and still be able to recover jupiter sized close - in planets .    in this work",
    "we develop methods that use radiative transfer to calculate spectral - line profiles from a spotted stellar surface .",
    "the stellar spot configurations are either based on spot sizes and numbers , or filling factors .",
    "it is also possible to introduce active longitudes and latitudes . in addition",
    ", a planetary signal can be added to the spectra calculated from the spotted surface .",
    "this approach allows for a statistical investigation of exoplanet detection and enables obtaining information on the errors the stellar activity causes on the determined planetary parameters . in the current paper ,",
    "paper i , we describe the methods , test them and compare the results to some of the previously published studies .",
    "the methods are also applied to study jitter around solar - like stars , including a solar - like activity cycle . in the second part , paper ii",
    ", we will apply the methods to m dwarfs and investigate the reliability of recovery of planetary parameters in the presence of stellar activity ( @xcite ) .",
    "we create spot patterns on a simulated stellar surface using our spotss code ( see next section ) .",
    "synthetic spectral line profiles at different rotational phases of the star are calculated based on the created surface distributions .",
    "the spectra based on the given spot configuration and local line profile grids are calculated using the code direct7 , which is written by n.e .",
    "piskunov and includes modifications introduced by t.hackman .",
    "this code uses the same routines as invers7 ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "radial velocity ( jitter ) measurements are obtained by cross - correlation of the calculated line profiles with either one of the generated profiles or a template profile , which is obtained from a spectrum with the temperature of the unspotted stellar surface .",
    "exoplanet radial velocity is introduced into the spectra and recovered by a new cross - correlation .",
    "these steps after the spot surface creation are all done in a code called deema ( detection of exoplanets under the effect of magnetic activity ) .",
    "details of all the steps are discussed in the following .",
    "we developed our code , spotss , to generate spot ( temperature ) patterns on a simulated stellar surface .",
    "the code can generate random spots across the entire surface , and has also the option to define certain ` active ' regions in latitude and/or longitude .",
    "the code creates a matrix of temperatures which represents the entire stellar surface , corresponding to @xmath0 points of latitude and @xmath1 points of longitude . using a @xmath2 grid yields a latitude resolution of 3 degrees / pixel and a longitude resolution of 3 degrees / pixel at the equator (",
    "note that the actual longitude resolution increases near the poles since the grid is a flat square that represents a spherical surface ) .",
    "the size of the matrix can be changed in order to increase or decrease the spatial resolution , but at much higher sizes the processing time is very long compared to the relatively small gains in precision .",
    "the code takes the following ( user defined ) input parameters :    1 .",
    "stellar temperature , @xmath3 : the photospheric temperature of the unspotted stellar surface , before spots are added .",
    "every value in the temperature matrix is originally set to this value .",
    "spot temperature , @xmath4 : the temperature of the umbral regions of the spots .",
    "this is considered the spot temperature , although each spot also has a penumbral region with a temperature defined as the mid point between the spot temperature and the photospheric temperature .",
    "3 .   spot radius , @xmath5 : ` average ' radius of the spots . the radius of each spot is randomly altered starting from this value to create a lognormal distribution of spot sizes around this size .",
    "lognormal distribution is chosen because the sunspot size distribution is known to follow it ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "spots are approximately circular , and we add penumbral regions with umbral to penumbral radii ratios of 1:2 , creating an umbral to penumbral area of 1:3 , following @xcite .",
    "4 .   number of spots , ns ( or filling factor , depending on which version of the code is used ) : spots are placed on the stellar surface randomly until the number of spots is reached or the desired filling factor is achieved . for certain purposes it was useful to investigate the effect of one large spot , so ns was set to 1 .",
    "( note when ns = 1 the exact input value of rs is used , since it is not necessary to alter this to obtain a certain size distribution of spots . an exact latitude and longitude for the center of the spot can also be specified . )",
    "longitude range : defaults to the full range of longitude : 0  360 degrees , but active longitude ranges can be defined meaning spots will only be placed within those ranges .",
    "latitude range : defaults to the full range of latitude , -90  90 degrees , though active latitudes can also be defined .",
    "then spots will only be placed within those ranges .",
    "this can be combined with defining an active longitude range to create a small `` active region '' on the stellar surface .",
    "active regions such as this have been observed in some doppler images of active stars .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ cycle_jitter_table ]    the results from the jitter calculations",
    "are shown in fig .",
    "[ solar_jitter_cycle ] , and the mean jitter and its standard deviation are also given in table  [ cycle_jitter_table ] .",
    "in the plot , the x - axis gives the time in years , and the mean jitter of the different activity cases have been plotted at a time it would typically be observed during the solar 11 year cycle .",
    "the standard deviation of the jitter from 100 individual spot configurations has been plotted as an errorbar for each activity case .",
    "the result from the average jitter case has been plotted both in the rising and declining phase of the activity .",
    "are plotted approximately at the time they would occur during the solar 11 year cycle .",
    "the errorbar gives the standard deviation of the measurements from the 10 individual spot configurations .",
    ", width=302 ]    for the maximum solar activity three different jitter cases were calculated .",
    "they are marked in fig .",
    "[ solar_jitter_cycle ] by letter s ( small maximum , spot fraction 0.2% ) , m ( medium maximum , spot fraction 0.3% ) and l ( large maximum , spot fraction 0.5% ) . as expected , the large sized maximum results in the largest jitter values , and the small sized maximum induces the smallest jitter",
    ". still , all the average jitter values for different solar maxima cases are the same within the standard deviation , and the variation in the jitter , as is seen from the standard deviation , is similar for all the cases .",
    "both of the minima cases have the smallest jitter values , and also the smallest standard deviation .",
    "this is because with such a small spot coverage ( 0.02% ) basically only one small spot is present on the surface .",
    "the exact location of the spot changes slightly , and the differences in latitude result in small changes in the full jitter amplitude .",
    "it is interesting to note that the mean jitter from the early cycle case , where the spots are around latitudes @xmath6 results in smaller jitter than the late cycle case with spots at latitudes @xmath7 .",
    "the effect of the jitter is largest when the spots are best visible , i.e. , in the case of inclination 90@xmath8 around equator .",
    "one should also note that the spots for the early cycle case have been created with spot latitude 20@xmath830@xmath8 , not taking into account that on the sun the spots would appear both around latitude -30@xmath8 and + 30@xmath8 .",
    "regardless , with such small spot coverage fractions only one spot is created , and therefore this has no practical effect in the full jitter amplitude , which is what is studied here .",
    "these calculations do not take into account the lifetime of the sunspots .",
    "on the other hand , the larger sunspot on average live longer , couple of weeks , instead of couple of days ( see , e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "here we by necessity concentrate on larger spots .",
    "therefore , not taking into account the lifetime of the spots should not significantly affect our investigation .",
    "in addition , several authors have reported that the solar activity tends to occur at active longitudes ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "this effect has not been taken into in our calculations ; we have restricted the spot occurrence only in the latitude direction .",
    "the solar active longitudes would group the spots in longitudinal direction and increase the jitter .",
    "thus , the random distribution investigated here can be considered as the lower limit for the jitter .",
    "an interesting question is how the jitter during a solar - like cycle would affect the detection of a planet in the habitable zone of its host star .",
    "we have studied this issue by introducing a planet on one year orbit around a star showing a cycle similar to the one described in the previous section .",
    "the cycle is thought to last 11 years , like in the sun , and the observing period is five years , covering the cycle from minimum to maximum .",
    "each year the target can be observed during its visibility , here called the observing season , and each season a fixed number of observing runs is carried out .",
    "the length of the observing run is always 25 days , which is also the rotation period of the target star . during one run 20",
    "evenly spaced observations are carried out . for each observing run during the first year a spot configuration from the solar minimum case",
    "is randomly chosen .",
    "for the second and third year the spot configurations have been chosen randomly from the average activity case . during the fourth year spot configurations are from the small activity maximum case , and during the fifth year from the medium maximum maps .",
    "after this a planet on a one year orbit is introduced to the jitter measurements .",
    "[ sun_neptune ] shows an example of radial velocity measurements created this way . in the example",
    "the planet has the same mass as neptune ( 17 earth masses ) and the observing season lasts the whole year and has five individual observing runs during it .",
    "it can easily be seen that the activity caused noise in the radial velocity measurements increases with the advancing activity cycle .        for investigating the detectability of the planet",
    "we use lomb - scargle period search method for unevenly sampled data ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the periodogram resulting from the simulated data presented in fig .",
    "[ sun_neptune ] is shown in fig .",
    "[ sun_neptune_scargle ] .",
    "the dominant frequencies in this case are the orbital period of the planet ( marked by a solid vertical line ) and its harmonics ( marked by dashed vertical lines ) .",
    "the dotted vertical lines denote the rotation period ( 25 days ) and half a rotation period of the star , whereas the horizontal dotted line is the analytical 3@xmath9 detection threshold following the false alarm probability ( fap ) formulation of @xcite and taking into account the modifications of @xcite .",
    "the horizontal dashed line , on the other hand , is the fap obtained from white noise simulations with 10000 iterations .",
    "the two fap values are similar , which is to be expected because our data is not severely unevenly distributed , the case where the analytical method would strongly underestimate the fap .",
    "our data are evenly distributed over the observing run , and the observing runs are evenly distributed throughout the year . in this simulation",
    "the neptune mass planet is easily detected even with the noise from the stellar activity .",
    "the case remains the same if we shorten the observing season to 150 days and only have three observing runs during it .",
    "this is a more realistic case because of the limited visibility of the targets and also owing to the telescope time allocation process .",
    "the lomb - scargle periodogram of this case is shown in fig .",
    "[ sun_neptune_scargle150 ] .",
    "the orbital period of the planet is still easily detectable , but the harmonics of the orbital period have become more pronounced .",
    "part of the effect is also due to aliasing caused by larger data gaps .    .",
    "the dotted horizontal line is the analytical 3@xmath9 detection threshold and the dashed horizontal line the numerical one .",
    "the solid vertical line gives the original period of the planet ( 365 days ) and the dashed vertical lines give its harmonics .",
    "the dotted vertical lines are the rotation period of the star ( 25 days ) and half of the rotation period of the star .",
    "the x - axis gives the period in days and y - axis the power spectral density .",
    ", width=302 ]    , but now with observing season only lasting 150 days and with only three observing runs during this time .",
    ", width=302 ]    on the other hand , the possibility of detecting earth - mass planet around a solar - like star is much more challenging .",
    "the periodogram from the optimum case where the observing season lasts the whole year and there are five individual observing runs during the season is shown in fig .",
    "[ sun_earth_scargle_runs5 ] .",
    "no indication of the true orbital period is seen , and the strongest periodicity is half the stellar rotation period .",
    "the situation is somewhat improved when the number of observing runs is increased . in fig .",
    "[ sun_earth_scargle_runs50 ] a case where there are 50 observing runs during each year is shown ( this implies observing more than once a night ) . in this case",
    "the signature of the true orbital period starts to emerge , but still it can not be considered significant .",
    "our tests show that the 3@xmath9 detection limit for a planet in a habitable zone of a solar - like star with a solar - like activity cycle is around 6 earth masses ( when using five observing runs distributed over a full year , and total length of observations of five years ) .    , but now with an earth - mass planet . , width=302 ]    , but now with an earth - mass planet and 50 observing runs during the observing season of one year .",
    ", width=302 ]    @xcite investigated the detectability of the earth in the habitable zone around a solar - like star .",
    "they concluded that with the highest precision instruments one can only detect an earth mass planet after several years of intensive monitoring , and then preferably during the low activity phase of the star . in another investigation",
    "@xcite investigate the detection limits with a harps - like instrument , taking into account oscillation , granulation , and activity effects .",
    "they study different observing strategies to minimise the stellar noise and conclude that applying three measurements per night of 10 minutes every three days , 10 nights a month is the best strategy out of the ones they tested . depending on the activity level",
    "this strategy would allow to detect 2.53.5 earth mass planets in the habitable zone of an early k dwarf .",
    "still , this means a planet larger than the earth and in a habitable zone that is closer to the star than 1  au .",
    "the codes developed here are very versatile and large variety of spot configurations and exoplanets on different orbits can easily be studied .",
    "this opens a possibility to do statistical studies of the effect of stellar activity on the detection of exoplanets .",
    "one can also use the same methods as are used to detect exoplanets in recovering the input planet from our spectra .",
    "the input parameters of the planet are know , and therefore this will also allow for determining at which accuracy different planetary parameters can be recovered . in the second part of this series of papers ( @xcite ) , we apply the methods developed here to m dwarfs",
    ". we will also study in detail the effect stellar activity has on the recovered planetary parameters .",
    "we have developed methods for investigating the radial velocity jitter caused by starspots .",
    "the method allows creating many spot configurations with the same spot filling factors and also enables selecting active latitude and longitude ranges .",
    "planetary signatures can easily be added to the spectra and analysed . from the tests and implementation to solar like stars we can draw the following conclusions :    * as has been seen in the previous studies observations at",
    "longer wavelengths decrease the measured radial velocity jitter .",
    "the tests carried out in this study show that the decrease of approximately 50% in the full jitter amplitude is achieved at wavelengths around 7000   in comparison to 3700   . between wavelengths",
    "7000   and 9000   no significant further decrease in the jitter amplitude is observed .",
    "* the spectral resolution does not affect the jitter amplitude significantly at the generally used resolving powers of 50,000130,000 and higher .",
    "on the other hand , resolution of 20,000 and less decreases the jitter , but also decreases the measurement accuracy .",
    "* we verify the previous results showing that the full jitter amplitude depends on the stellar rotational velocity , @xmath10 .",
    "the dependence is linear and even though the exact jitter amplitude depends on the spot size , the slope of the correlation does not . * the solar - like activity patterns create largely varying amounts of radial velocity jitter . from a spot coverage factor that represents average solar activity ,",
    "the full jitter amplitude recovered from our simulated data varies approximately between 1  m / s and 12  m / s .",
    "the exact value is driven by how concentrated the spots are . *",
    "the mean full jitter amplitude varies during the solar - like activity cycle between approximately 1  m / s and 9  m / s . * with realistic observing frequency and solar - like cyclic activity a neptune sized planet on a one year orbit around a solar mass star",
    "can be recovered with high significance .",
    "the recovery of an earth mass planet on a similar orbit on the other hand is very challenging .",
    "* the starspots do not only create noise in the radial velocity curves , they can also affect the shape of the radial velocity curve in such a way that the determined orbital parameters change .",
    "eccentricity especially can be affected . *",
    "the spot surface creation and planet orbit implementation software developed in this study allow for statistical studies of effect of spot jitter in exoplanet detection .",
    "these issues are addressed in the second paper in this series .",
    "the authors would like to thank the anonymous referee whose comments helped to improve this paper .",
    "acknowledges the support from the european commission under the marie curie ief programme in fp7 . j.m.a .",
    "acknowledges support through an nsf graduate research fellowship and the nordic research opportunity award .",
    "aigrain s. , pont f. , zucker s. , 2012 , mnras , 419 , 3147 andersen j.m .",
    ", korhonen h. , 2014 , mnras , submitted balmaceda l.a .",
    ", solanki s.k . ,",
    "krivova n.a . , foster s. , 2009 , journal of geophysical research , 114 , 7104 baraffe i. , chabrier g. , allard f. , hauschildt p.h . , 1998 , a&a , 337 , 403 barnes j.r .",
    ", jeffers s.v . , jones h.r.a .",
    ", 2011 , mnras , 412 , 1599 basri g. , walkowicz l.m .",
    ", reiners a. , 2013 , apj , 769 , 37 baumann i. , solanki , s.k . , 2005 ,",
    "a&a , 443 , 1061 bennett d.p . , sumi t. , bond i.a . , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "apj , 757 , 119 berdyugina s.v . , usoskin i.g . , 2003 ,",
    "a&a , 405 , 1121 bogdan t.j . ,",
    "gilman p.a . ,",
    "lerche i. , howard r. , 1988 , apj , 327 , 451 boisse i. , bouchy f. , hbrard g. , bonfils x. , santos n. , vauclair s. , 2011 , a&a , 528 , a4 boisse i. , bonfils x. , santos n.c . , 2012 , a&a , 545 , a109 carrington r.c .",
    ", 1858 , mnras , 19 , 1 cegla h.m .",
    ", watson c.a . ,",
    "marsh t.r . , et al . , 2012 mnras , 421 , l54 cegla h.m . ,",
    "stassun k.g . ,",
    "watson c.a .",
    ", bastien f.a . ,",
    "pepper j. , 2014 , apj , 780 , 104 desort m. , lagrange a .- m . , galland f. , udry s. , mayor m. , 2007 , a&a 473 , 983 dumusque x. , udry s. , lovis c. , santos n.c . ,",
    "monteiro m.j.p.f.g . , 2011a , a&a , 525 , a140 dumusque x. , santos n.c . ,",
    "udry s. , lovis c. , bonfils x. , 2011b , a&a , 527 , a82 dumusque x. , boisse i. , santos n.c .",
    ", 2014 , apj , 796 , 132 gilliland r.l .",
    ", chaplin w.j . , dunham e.w . , et al . , 2011 apjs , 197 , 6 gnevyshev m.n . , 1938 , pulkovo obs .",
    "circ . , 24 , 37 gray r.o . , corbally , c.j . , 1994 ,",
    "aj , 107 , 742 gustafsson b. , edvardsson b. , eriksson k. , jrgensen u.g .",
    ", nordlund  . , plez , b. , 2008 , a&a , 486 , 951 hackman , t. , jetsu l. , tuominen i. , 2001 , a&a , 374 , 171 hathaway d.h .",
    ", 2011 , solar physics , 273 , 221 horne j.h .",
    ", baliunas s.l . , 1986 ,",
    "apj , 302 , 757 huerta m. , johns - krull c.m .",
    ", prato l. , hartigan p. , jaffe d.t . , 2008 , apj , 678 , 472 jrvinen s.p . , korhonen h. , berdyugina s.v .",
    ", et al . , 2008 , a&a , 488 , 1047 jeffers s.v . , barnes j.r . , jones h.r.a .",
    ", reiners a. , pinfield d.j . , marsden s.c . , 2014 , mnras , 438 , 2717 jenkins j.s . , jones h.r.a .",
    ", tinney c.g . , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 163 juckett d.a . , 2006 , solar physics , 237 , 351 kupka f.g . , piskunov n.e . ,",
    "ryabchikova t.a .",
    ", stempels h.c . , weiss w.w",
    ". , 1999 , a&as , 138 , 119 kurucz r. l. , 1993 , kurucz cd no .",
    "13 kurucz r.l . , avrett e.h . , 1981 , sao special report , no . 391 lagrange a .- m . , desort m. , meunier n. , 2010 , a&a , 512 , a38 lanza a.f .",
    ", boisse i. , bouchy f. , bonomo a.s . , moutou c. , 2011 , a&a , 533 , a44 ma b. , ge j. , 2012 , apj , 750 , 172 marchwinski r.c . , mahadevan s. , robertson p. , ramsey l. , harder j. , 2014 , apj accepted , arxiv:1410.7379 maunder e.w . , 1903 , the observatory , vol .  26 , p.  329",
    "martnez - arniz r. , maldonado j. , montes d. , eiroa c. , montesinos b. , 2010 , a&a , 520 , a79 mcquillan a. , aigrain s. , roberts s. , 2012 , a&a , 539 , a137 meunier n. , lagrange a .-",
    ", 2013 , a&a , 551 , a101 meunier n. , desort m. , lagrange a .- m .",
    ", 2010 , a&a , 512 , a39 mikkola s. , 1987 , celestial mechanics , 40 , 329 moulds v.e . ,",
    "watson c.a . ,",
    "bonfils x. , littlefair s.p . ,",
    "simpson e.k . , 2013 , mnras , 430 , 1709 oshagh m. , santos n.c . , boisse i. , bou g. , montalto m. , dumusque x. , haghighipour n. , 2013 , a&a , 556 , a19o petrovay k. , van driel - gesztelyi l. , 1997 , solar physics , 176 , 249 piskunov n.e .",
    ", tuominen i. , vilhu o. , 1990 , a&a , 230 , 363 press w.h .",
    ", rybicki g.b . , 1989 , apj , 338 , 277 queloz d. et al . , 2001 , a&a , 379 , 279 radick r.r . , lockwood g.w",
    ". , skiff b.a . , baliunas s.l . , 1998 , apjs , 118 , 239 reiners a. , bean j.l . , huber k.f",
    ". , dreizler s. , seifahrt a. , czesla s. , 2010 , apj , 710 , 432 saar s.h .",
    ", donahue r.a . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 485 , 319 sbordone l. , bonifacio p. , castelli f. , kurucz r.l .",
    ", 2004 , memorie della societ astronomica italiana supplement , v.5 , p.93 scargle j.d . , 1982 , apj , 263 , 835 solanki s.k . , 2003 , a&a rev . , 11 , 153 usoskin i.g . ,",
    "berdyugina s.v .",
    ", poutanen j. , 2005 , a&a , 441 , 347 waldmeier m. , 1955 , ergebnisse und probleme der sonnenforschung , 2 .",
    ", akad . verlagsges .",
    ", leipzig ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the detection of exoplanets using any method is prone to confusion due to the intrinsic variability of the host star . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the effect of cool starspots on the detectability of the exoplanets around solar - like stars using the radial velocity method . for investigating this activity - caused `` jitter '' we calculate synthetic spectra using radiative transfer , known stellar atomic and molecular lines , different surface spot configurations , and an added planetary signal . here , the methods are described in detail , tested and compared to previously published studies . </S>",
    "<S> the methods are also applied to investigate the activity jitter in old and young solar - like stars , and over a solar - like activity cycles . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the mean full jitter amplitude obtained from the spot surfaces mimicking the solar activity varies during the cycle approximately between 1  m / s and 9  m / s . with a realistic observing frequency a neptune mass planet on a one year orbit can be reliably recovered . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> the recovery of an earth mass planet on a similar orbit is not feasible with high significance . </S>",
    "<S> the methods developed in this study have a great potential for doing statistical studies of planet detectability , and also for investigating the effect of stellar activity on recovered planetary parameters .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    planets and satellites : detection  stars : activity  stars : rotation  stars : solar - type  </S>",
    "<S> ( stars : ) starspots </S>"
  ]
}