{
  "article_text": [
    "waves can be observed throughout all layers of the solar atmosphere .",
    "understanding the properties of waves is important because of their impact on chromospheric and coronal heating and the solar wind .",
    "in addition , waves have the potential to serve as a diagnostic to measure magneto - thermal properties and to decide which physical processes are important in the different layers in the solar atmosphere .    in this study",
    ", we concentrate on the internetwork of the quiet sun , where observations in chromospheric spectral lines such as  and  are dominated by small grains : short - lived ( 100  s or less ) , sub - arcsecond regions with enhanced intensity ( see e.g. , the extensive review by * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite , among others , show that the trace near - uv also reveals nicely the bright grains .",
    "these grains result from acoustic waves that propagate upward in the non - magnetic environment and turn into shocks as they reach the chromosphere ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "spectral profiles emerging from acoustic shocks , so called k - grains , were studied under non - lte conditions in 1d hydrodynamic models by @xcite and in 3d under lte conditions by @xcite .",
    "propagating from the upper layers of the photosphere , the acoustic waves steepen into acoustic shocks in the chromosphere due to the steep decrease in density ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* among others ) .",
    "one may expect that these grains could be traced throughout the chromosphere and transition region .",
    "assuming that the shocks continue to travel upward , the density decrease through the chromosphere and transition region would lead to sharpening of the shock and an increase in shock amplitude .",
    "however , observations from the solar ultraviolet measurements of emitted radiation ( sumer , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on board of the solar and heliospheric observatory ( soho , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and from the vacuum tower telescope ( vtt , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) indicated that the shocks that produced k - grains apparently barely have a transition region counterpart @xcite .",
    "@xcite could trace acoustic wave related oscillations in uv continua and spectral lines of neutral species but only occasionally and faintly in spectral lines of singly ionized species (  1335   ) .",
    "spectral lines from double ionized species , the  hottest \" lines in their sample , did not show signs of acoustic wave related oscillations in the internetwork .",
    "@xcite concluded that upward - propagating acoustic shock waves do not contribute significantly to the heating of the lower transition region .",
    "the question then remains how these acoustic waves are dissipated before they reach the transition region and to what extent they contribute to chromospheric heating in the quiet sun .",
    "in this paper we focus on acoustic chromospheric waves in quiet sun and coronal hole internetwork using some of the highest resolution observations to date : in the uv from space with the interface region imaging spectrograph ( iris , * ? ? ? * ) and the strong chromospheric lines  and  from the ground with the swedish 1-m solar telescope ( sst , * ? ? ?",
    "these instruments provide a combination of high spatial , spectral and temporal resolution .",
    "the paper layout is as follows , the data processing of the various instruments is described in section  [ sec : data ] . in section  [ sec :",
    "obsres ] we follow up with the observational results which focus on 1 ) the properties of bright chromospheric internetwork grains ( section  [ sec : prop ] ) ; 2 ) the origin of the emission of these grains ( section  [ sec : emiss ] ) ; and 3 ) the spectral analysis ( section  [ sec : dopp ] ) .",
    "finally , we discuss the results and conclusions in section  [ sec : dis ] .",
    "iris obtains spectra in passbands from 13321358    ( with spectral pixel size of 12.98  m ) , 13891407    ( with spectral pixel size of 12.72  m ) and 27832834    ( with spectral pixel size of 25.46  m ) including bright spectral lines formed in the chromosphere , e.g. ,  and k  2796   , in the upper chromosphere / lower transition region ( 1334/1335   ) and in the transition region ( e.g. ,  1394/1403   ) .",
    "spectral rasters sample regions up to 130@xmath1175  at a variety of spatial samplings ( from @xmath0 and up ) . in addition",
    ", iris can take slit - jaw images ( sji ) with different filters that have spectral windows dominated by emission from these spectral lines .",
    "sji 2796 is centered on  at 2796    and has a 4    bandpass , sji 1330 is centered at 1340    and has a 55    bandpass , and sji 1400 is centered at 1390    and has a 55    bandpass . for more information on iris ,",
    "we refer the reader to @xcite .",
    "we analyze both sit - and - stare , i.e , with the slit pointing at a fixed solar region and continuously tracking solar rotation , and large spatial raster iris observations .",
    "the sit - and - stare observations were obtained on 2013 september 22 from 07:34:30 to 11:04:13 ut where the iris slit was kept at a fixed location to maximize the temporal cadence .",
    "the cadence of the spectral observations was 5  s with an exposure time of 4  s. slit - jaw images with the 1330   , 1400    and 2796    filters were taken every 10  s. calibrated level 2 data was used in our study , i.e. , dark subtraction , flat field correction , and geometrical correction have been taken into account @xcite .",
    "the target was a coronal hole at @xmath2 .",
    "for this dataset , we acquired coordinated observations with the swedish 1-m solar telescope ( sst , * ? ? ? * ) on la palma using the crisp imaging spectropolarimeter ( crisp , * ? ? ? * ) and imaging in the blue beam .",
    "crisp provides us with spectrally resolved imaging in  and , and single - wavelength stokes @xmath3 images in the wing ( @xmath4  m ) of 1 . the time range for crisp was 08:09:0010:10:47 ut . for the period with best seeing ( 08:20:39  09:08:43 ) we acquired upper photospheric / chromospheric images in a  filter ( 1.1    fwhm ) centered on the line core and pure photospheric images from a wide - band filter ( 10    fwhm ) centered on 3953.7   , the bump between the ca k and h cores .",
    "the  spectral line was sampled at 25 spectral positions within @xmath5  m  of the core with a sampling of 100  m .",
    "the   line was sampled at 15 spectral positions within @xmath6  m  with a sampling of 200  m .",
    "a sharp and stable time - series was achieved with aid from adaptive optics , image restoration using the multi - object multi - frame blind deconvolution method @xcite , and time series processing of the reconstructed images that includes de - rotation , rigid alignment and de - stretching . for the data processing",
    "we follow the crisp reduction pipeline @xcite which includes procedures described by , , , and @xcite .    we aligned the sst data to the iris observations by scaling down to iris image scale ( 016 ) and through cross - correlation of sst  wing ( @xmath7   ) and iris  sji 2796 images .",
    "the accuracy of the alignment was found to be on the level of the iris pixel size .",
    "the overlapping field of view between iris and sst was roughly 25@xmath135 .",
    "we also make use of very large dense iris level 2 raster data with 30  s exposures taken on 2014 february 25 at 20:50:31 ut and on 2013 october 22 at 11:30:30 ut .",
    "each of the rasters has 400 steps and scans @xmath8 in three and a half hours with a spatial pixel - size of @xmath9 along the slit and @xmath10 as raster step size .",
    "both rasters were on the quiet sun , the first one centered at ( @xmath11 ) = ( 77,@xmath1272 ) and the second one at ( @xmath11 ) = ( @xmath12304,@xmath12109 ) .",
    "to allow for a reasonable 32  s cadence for the slit jaw images , only two sji filters were used in each raster : the 1330 and 1400    sjis were used in the first raster , and the 1400 and 2796    sjis used in the second raster . we analyze both rasters here in order to have observations in all three filters .",
    "solar dynamic observatory / helioseismic and magnetic imager ( sdo / hmi * ? ? ?",
    "* ) data has been used for context of the same region and time such as the two deep exposure iris raster observations ( 2014 february 25 at 20:50:30 ut , and 2013 october 22 at 11:30:30 ut ) .",
    "we use the magnetic field along the line of sight distributed with the ` ssw_jsoc_time2data.pro ` and ` read_sdo.pro ` and the data was processed using ` aia_prep.pro ` .",
    "[ sec : obsres ]        small - scale and dynamic bright grains dominate images and time series of quiet sun and coronal holes observed with the iris 1400   , 1330   , and 2796    sji filters ( e.g. , see figures  [ fig : sjixy ] ,  [ fig : sjixt ] , and  [ fig : shmi ] ) .",
    "the properties of these chromospheric bright grains ( cbgs ) , the origin of their emission in these filters , and spectral analysis are described in the following sections [ sec : prop][sec : dopp ] , respectively .",
    "[ sec : prop ]        we use the crisp 1  stokes v maps to select the cbgs observed with the iris sji filters that are located in internetwork regions with weak magnetic fields and to make sure that they are not related to isolated magnetic bright points or network regions ( see panel b in figure  [ fig : sjixy ] ) .",
    "therefore , we do not study the isolated magnetic bright points studied by @xcite . the typical size of the cbgs is of the order of @xmath13 with , in general , a roundish shape .",
    "others are elongated such as the example located at @xmath14 ( see panels d  g ) .",
    "the elongation can get as long as intergranular lanes ( @xmath15 ) .",
    "cbgs observed with sji 1330     ( panel d ) , and 1400    ( panel e ) are clearly more roundish than those observed with sji 2796    ( panel f ) and in  ( panel g ) .",
    "light curves for a selected position in an internetwork region with very low magnetic activity ( marked with the cross in the bottom panels in figure  [ fig : sjixy ] ) : sji 1330    ( solid black line ) , 1400    ( dashed black line ) , 2796    ( solid red line ) filters and  ( dashed red line ) and integrated line core of  ( solid blue line ) .",
    "all light curves are normalized.,scaledwidth=49.0% ]    the cbgs observed in each sji channel and  correspond to the same feature , this is illustrated in figure  [ fig : sjixy ] and in movie  1 .",
    "overlap of the cgbs can also be discerned in space and time in all three channels ( see figure  [ fig : sjixt ] ) .",
    "in addition , they show a nice correlation with the  line core intensity .",
    "the structures are highly similar between the sji 1330 and 1400    filters and between sji 2796    and   ( see figure  [ fig : sjixy ] and movie  1 ) . between these two sets of images ( one set iris fuv sjis and the other set the longer wavelength passbands , i.e. , sji  2796    and ) , the brightenings seem to come from the same feature , but they show some differences in structure and brightness .",
    "therefore , the cbg emission in the sji 1330 and 1400    filters is probably from a different atmospheric region than sji 2796    and , but still from the same features ( see section  [ sec : emiss ] ) .",
    "we note that there seems to be a trend in the time evolution of the cbg s emissions ( figure  [ fig : sjixt ] and  [ fig : sji1d ] ) being most of the time first seen in sji 2796     and with longer duration than in the fuv channels . within the context of upward propagating waves ,",
    "this can be interpreted as the signal of the sji 2796 filter originating over a wider ( and mostly deeper ) height range .",
    "note that there is not always a nice time match between sji 2796 and sji 1330/1400 , sometimes the cbgs appear earlier , sometimes later in time .",
    "an example of this mis - match between sji 2796 and sji 1330/1400 is shown in figure  3 between 4400 s and 4600 s ( see section 3.3 ) .",
    "the light curves of the sji cbgs and  as a function of time are shown in figure  [ fig : sji1d ] .",
    "in general cbgs show the largest variation in the 1400    sji filter , then in the 1330    sji filter , and the variability in the 2796    sji filter and   are the lowest .",
    "as mentioned above , there is a clear similarity between the sji 1330 and 1400    light curves and between sji 2796    and",
    ".  matches also nicely with the sji 1330 and 1400    light curves ( e.g. , t=[8400,8600]s ) .    finally , but not least important",
    ", bright grains move horizontally .",
    "this is seen in figure  [ fig : sjixt ] as inclined trajectories of the grains with a typical velocity of 7  km  s@xmath16 ( see also movie 1 ) .",
    "[ sec : emiss ]    the sji 1330    filter is dominated by the  1334 and 1336    lines , the sji 1400    filter by the  1394 and 1403   , and the sji 2796    filter by the  line .",
    "is the cbg brightening in the sji filters coming from these dominant lines ?",
    "we used rasters of long exposure observations taken with the iris spectrograph to address this question .",
    "two different observations were used so that we can analyze all three iris sji filters ( sji 1330    and 1400    for 2014-feb-15 , sji 2796  and 1400    for 2013-oct-22 ) .    for context , we show sji 1400 images ( top panels ) and the line - of - sight magnetic field maps from hmi ( bottom panels ) in figure  [ fig : shmi ] . the context images serve to illustrate the low level of magnetic activity and the ubiquitous presence of cbgs over the whole field of view .",
    "the 30  s exposure spectroheliograms allow us to search for possible line emission in , , and 4  in cbgs in the iris sji filter images .",
    "for this we integrated the spectral profiles as a function of wavelength and subtracted from  the wings intensity and from and 4  the continuum intensity in order to construct averaged line intensity maps ( see the top panels of figure  [ fig : intline ] ) .",
    "the spectral windows used for integration are illustrated in figure  [ fig : averplt ] .",
    "the black profiles are averaged over the whole dataset which includes network regions .",
    "spectral profiles of one cbg are shown in blue ( smoothed over three spectral pixels for and 4  to reduce noise ) .",
    "the  wing intensity is calculated by averaging in wavelength from @xmath17 to @xmath18 and from @xmath19 to @xmath20 .",
    "the continuum intensity for the and 4   lines is averaged from @xmath19 and @xmath20 . the averaged continuum or  wing intensities",
    "are then subtracted from the average line profile intensity ( between @xmath18 and @xmath19 ) . in figure",
    "[ fig : intline ] , such integrated intensity maps of the dominant lines from the raster are compared with the corresponding synthetic sji raster maps ( bottom panels ) .",
    "the raster maps were recorded with the slit oriented in the east - west direction ( along the @xmath21-axis in figure  [ fig : intline ] ) and stepping in the north - south direction ( along the @xmath22-axis ) .",
    "horizontal bands with black and white pixels are caused by enhanced noise from energetic particle hits on the detectors when the spacecraft passed through the earth s radiation belts ( south atlantic anomaly ) .",
    "vertical dark lines are due to artifacts on the slit .",
    "the corresponding synthetic sji raster maps in the bottom row are corrected for the temporal raster stepping : the maps are constructed from intensity profiles neighboring the slit taken from sji images that match the raster spectrograms .",
    "note , we can not get exactly co - spatial sji data with the raster slit .        the two  maps ( left panels in figure  [ fig : intline ] and movie  2 ) are very similar and are both dominated by cbgs and structures that appear reminiscent of reversed granulation .",
    "sunrise observed also similar structures in  k @xcite .",
    "this shows that cbgs have a clear contribution from the  line core .",
    "note that even though the sji 2796 filter has rather narrow bandwidth ( 4   ) , there is still a significant contribution from the inner wings .",
    "for the construction of the integrated line intensity map in the top panel , the wing contribution has been subtracted and there still is a significant cbg contribution . the wing map ( not shown )",
    "is also dominated by cbgs which leads to the conclusion that cbg signals in the sji 2796 filter comes both from the  line core and inner wings and explains why the contrast in both raster maps is not identical .",
    "the integrated line intensity map ( top right panel of figure  [ fig : intline ] ) is rather different from the sji 1330 map ( bottom right ) although close inspection reveals faint presence of some cbgs in the map ( see right panels on movie 2 ) .",
    "one clear example of the latter is the selected case shown as the blue profile in figure  [ fig : averplt ] which is a cbg with a clear signal in and no signal in 4 .",
    "the 4  map is filled with fibrils and only in a few regions one can see weak grains such as around @xmath23 and @xmath24 .",
    "the fibrilar structures are mostly saturated to visualize the faint cbgs .",
    "the brightness of the few grains in 4  and intensities is lower than the fibrils ; therefore , the cbg s and emission is too weak to contribute significantly to the grain signal observed in sji 1400     and 1330    ( figure  [ fig : intline ] and movie  2 ) .",
    "if these spectral lines do not produce the cbg s emission in these two filters , where does the signal come from ? presumably , the emission of cbgs in the 1400    and 1330    sji filters comes from the continuum .",
    "the observed continuum from the iris spectrograph is very weak and often does not exceed the digitization threshold , i.e. , we could not directly confirm if most of the cbgs emission in these two filters comes from the continuum by constructing integrated continuum maps like we did for the spectral lines .",
    "the continuum windows in the iris fuv spectrograms are simply too narrow compared to the 55    bandpass of the sji filters to make a direct comparison .",
    "consequently , we postulate that grains in sji 1400 and 1330     are mostly caused by an integrated continuum over the wide filter bandpass .        by comparison with",
    "the spectrally resolved data for  and  from crisp , we can make a rough estimate of the formation height of the sji 1400    and 1330    bright grains .",
    "for this , we focus on cbgs within coronal holes and quiet sun internetwork , i.e. , far from photospheric magnetic bright points .",
    "we use the 1  stokes v maps to select cbgs that are in the internetwork : figure  [ fig : sjisst ] and movie  3 show cbgs identified in sji 1400 as red contours in different diagnostics .",
    "black / white contours outline regions with enhanced stokes v signal . in order to find the origin of the cbgs emission in sji  1330    ( top left panel ) , 1400    ( top middle panel ) and 2796    ( top right panel ) we compare them with  core ( bottom left panel ) ,  at various wavelength positions ( bottom middle panel ) , and  at different wavelength positions ( bottom right panel ) shown in movie  3 .",
    "most of the emission seems to come from the network , but still , bright grains appear frequently all over in coronal holes and quiet sun internetwork ( see figures  [ fig : sjixy ] and  [ fig : shmi ] ) .",
    "sji bright grains tend to be located at the outer part of dark region boundaries in , i.e. , at the bright region of the reverse granulation .",
    "maps differ the most from any of the sji filters . only in the line core of",
    "can one see a few similarities .",
    "figure  [ fig : sjisst ] and movie  2 reveal a rather large overlap between ,  maps , and 1400    and 1330     sji filters .",
    "the best match of sji 1330   , and 1400    cbgs is with bright grains as seen in the line core intensity of   ( see movie  3 ) .",
    "note that we have integrated the line core intensity over @xmath25    with respect to the wavelength of the darkest core intensity in order to avoid cross - talk between doppler - shift and core intensity variations .",
    "the correlation between  core intensity and iris slitjaws is also noticeable in the lightcurves shown in figure  [ fig : sji1d ] .",
    "the continuum of the sji 1330 and 1400     filters is normally formed at a lower height than the core of the  line ( roughly @xmath26  mm @xcite versus @xmath27  mm @xcite ) . however , in a dynamic atmosphere the intensity of uv continua may get a large contribution from the shock even when the shock is significantly higher than the optical depth unity height @xcite . this explains the similarity between the sji 1330/1400    and the  core intensities .",
    "[ sec : dopp ]    both sst and iris provide spectral information as a function of time for cbgs .",
    "figure  [ fig : prof ] shows , , , , and 4   ( panels b - f ) spectral profiles as a function of time for a number of sji cbgs .",
    "the context sji 1400  image is shown in panel a at time=6200  s ( marked with the upper horizontal white line in panels b  f ) .",
    "the @xmath28-t plots of the chromospheric spectral lines reveal a wave pattern ( panels b  d ) .",
    "two nice examples of cbgs are at @xmath29 and @xmath30  s in the figure ( marked with the two horizontal white lines ) .    at the beginning of the bright grain evolution ,",
    "the core of the chromospheric lines are blue - shifted up to @xmath31  km  s@xmath16 for  and , and @xmath32  km  s@xmath16 for  for the absorption part of the spectral line .",
    "these doppler velocities are roughly sonic , i.e. , their amplitudes in doppler velocity shift are rather small , most likely because the centroid velocity does not capture shocks since these lines are optically thick @xcite . only at the moment of maximum doppler shift , the k2v peak shows a large intensity increase in both cbgs .",
    "it is known that a shock passing through the middle chromosphere produces an increase in density and temperature leading to a large intensity increase in the peak of 2v ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* detail the formation of the  &  k lines in a simulated atmosphere ) similar to the asymmetric intensity increase observed in the strong lines ( panel b ) @xcite .",
    "it is also interesting to see that at the later stage of the wave in  and , the blue wing shows an asymmetry with an absorption contribution shifted up to @xmath33  km  s@xmath16 .",
    "as mentioned in the previous section , only some cases reveal some signal in the transition region lines , for instance the cbg example at @xmath34  s , weak signals of ( @xmath35  km  s@xmath16 , panel e ) and ( @xmath36  km  s@xmath16 , panel f ) can be discerned .",
    "similarly , the other example ( at @xmath37  s ) has an increase in intensity with comparable doppler shifts . the signal in 4  is very noisy and weak in cbgs",
    "( see for instance figures  [ fig : averplt ] , and  [ fig : intline ] ) .",
    "still , a weak 4  signal around @xmath34s can be discerned at @xmath36  km  s@xmath16 .",
    "therefore , the doppler shift , as expected for an upward traveling wave into lower density regions , increases with formation height from  ( @xmath38  km  s@xmath16 ) ,  ( @xmath39  km  s@xmath16 )  ( @xmath40  km  s@xmath16 ) , ( @xmath41  km  s@xmath16 ) , to 4  ( @xmath42  km  s@xmath16 ) .",
    "however , one must be really careful with interpreting the shifts in the core of , , and  as doppler shifts since these are optically thick .",
    "temporal evolution of , , and  spectral profiles for a pixel in the internetwork in a coronal hole have a wave pattern with , sometimes , a time difference of a few seconds between each of them .",
    "for instance , the cbg at t=6200 s shows the brightening in the blue wing in  earlier than the brightening in k2v peak , whereas these two brightenings are reversed in time of appearence in the cbg at t=6050 s. going through the data ( not showing everything here ) we find a similar number of appearances for both cases . if we for a moment make the naive assumption of the  brightening being formed at lower heights than  and even lower heights than  one may interpret this as one case being an upward propagating wave and the other one as a downward propagating wave .",
    "far from this , panel d ) reveals that both cbgs come from upward propagating waves since there first appears an increased intensity in the wings of  propagating inwards towards the line core .",
    "this is a clear sign of an upward propagating wave . once again ,",
    "similar to the fact that one must be careful to interpret the line core shifts as doppler shifts , caution must be exercised in the interpretation of the brightening at the blue side of the line profile .",
    "this brightening comes about through an interplay between a local source function maximum and the velocity gradient in optically thick line formation ( for a detailed discussion , see * ? ? ?",
    "therefore , normal height of formation arguments must be treated with caution - numerical simulations combined with non - lte radiative transfer calculations giving synthetic observables may help with a more detailed interpretation .",
    "[ sec : dis ]    we analyzed bright grains observed in the internetwork of coronal holes and the quiet sun with the iris sji 1330 , 1400 , and 2796    filters .",
    "chromospheric bright grains have a lifetime of roughly 1.5 - 2 minutes in the sji 1330 , 1400    filters and 2.5 minutes in the sji 2796    filter and .",
    "the longer duration in the sji 2796    filter is , most likely , due to the fact that this spectral passband better covers the atmospheric height range for which the cbgs give enhanced emission .",
    "the filter ( 4    passband ) includes both inner wings and line core of mg k so that this channel covers cbgs from the upper - photosphere to the chromosphere @xcite .",
    "this explains why this channel shows cbgs for a longer period of time than the other two sji channels .",
    "we find a good correlation between the light curves of the sji 1330    and 1400    filters and between the sji 2796    filter and .",
    "it is clear that the cbg signal through the sji 2796    filter comes from the same range of heights as .",
    "in addition , the intensity observed in the sji 1330    and 1400    filters must come from the same region . from a comparison of integrated line maps and sji images , we conclude that cbgs in these two iris filters are dominated by the continuum intensity and not by the and 4  emission lines in these filters .",
    "therefore , cbgs observed with the iris 1330 and 1400    slit - jaws sample conditions between the upper photosphere and middle chromosphere , as a matter of fact , they match rather nicely with the  line core taken with the swedish 1-m solar telescope .",
    "moreover , bright grains in sji 1400    and 1330     appear towards the end of the lifetime of the sji 2796    features .",
    "assuming that these events travel upwards , the signal may come from roughly the middle chromosphere since the grains in sji 1400 and 1330     seem to form more or less at similar heights as the core of .",
    "if grains are a consequence of shocks and the density drops drastically between the chromosphere and transition region , one may expect a greater amplitude of the shock in the transition region . note that most of the cbgs signal in the sji filters comes from the chromosphere and not from the transition region . using the iris spectrograph , we were able to reveal that cbgs sometimes have weak and smooth emission in ( in agreement with * ? ? ? * ) and in a few cases in 4  too , i.e. , such waves can reach the transition region .",
    "their emission get blurry and extremely weak , most likely due to expansion of the shock when it travels through the chromosphere and reaches overlying loops . further studies of cbgs simulations should seek if overlaying loops and canopy structures can lead to weak emission in transition region lines and/or stop the propagation of the shocks into the transition region .",
    "another open question is if shocks with weak signals in the transition region can get into the corona .",
    "for the first time we tie the same shock in , , and and with a weak signal in , and in a few cases in 4 .",
    "in addition , we match these signatures in the various spectral profiles with cbgs in the iris sji filters . , , and  profiles reveal shock patterns with amplitudes of roughly @xmath43  km  s@xmath16 for  and  and @xmath44  km  s@xmath16 for  and their lifetime is roughly @xmath45  minutes .",
    "and 4 revealed only a weak brightening around @xmath46  km  s@xmath16 .",
    "however , one must be careful to interpret the line core shifts of the chromospheric lines because they are optically thick .",
    "as a matter of fact , we see that the  brightening is sometimes produced before and other times after the intensity increase of  k2v .",
    "however , in both cases  reveals that the wave is propagating upwards since the enhancement in intensity appears first in the wings and propagates in time towards the core of the line .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge support by nasa grants nnx11an98 g , nnm12ab40p and nasa contracts nnm07aa01c ( hinode ) , and nng09fa40c ( iris ) . this work has benefited from discussions at the international space science institute ( issi ) meeting on `` heating of the magnetized chromosphere '' from 24 - 28 february , 2014 , where many aspects of this paper were discussed with other colleagues . to analyze the data we have used idl and the solar software library ( ssw ) .",
    "the swedish 1-m solar telescope is operated by the institute for solar physics of the royal swedish academy of sciences in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .",
    "this research was supported by the research council of norway and by the european research council under the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp7/2007 - 2013 ) / erc grant agreement nr .",
    "thanks are also due to hakon skogsrud , eamon scullion , and ada ortiz for doing the observations at the sst .",
    "j. , pereira t.  m.  d. , carlsson m. , uitenbroek h. , de pontieu b. , 2013a , , 772 , 89 , the formation of iris diagnostics .",
    "i. a quintessential model atom of mg ii and general formation properties of the mg ii h and k lines          r.  j. , de pontieu b. , lites b. , 1999 , internetwork grains with trace , en astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "183 , rimmele t.  r. , balasubramaniam k.  s. , radick r.  r. ( eds . ) , high resolution solar physics : theory , observations , and techniques , p. 383",
    "g.  b. , bjelksjo k. , korhonen t.  k. , lindberg b. , petterson b. , 2003 , the 1-meter swedish solar telescope , en society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol .",
    "4853 , keil s.  l. , avakyan s.  v. ( eds . ) , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , p. 341",
    "s. , deubner f .-",
    ", fleck b. , wilhelm k. , 1997 , tracing ca k grains through the chromosphere into the transition region , en esa special publication , vol .",
    "404 , wilson a. ( ed . ) , fifth soho workshop : the corona and solar wind near minimum activity , p. 685"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the interface region imaging spectrograph ( iris ) reveals small - scale rapid brightenings in the form of bright grains all over coronal holes and the quiet sun . </S>",
    "<S> these bright grains are seen with the iris 1330   , 1400    and 2796    slit - jaw filters . </S>",
    "<S> we combine coordinated observations with iris and from the ground with the swedish 1-m solar telescope ( sst ) which allows us to have chromospheric ( , , , and ) , and transition region (  1334   , 4 ) spectral imaging , and single - wavelength stokes maps in 1 at high spatial ( @xmath0 ) , temporal and spectral resolution . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the iris slit - jaw grains are the counterpart of so - called acoustic grains , i.e. , resulting from chromospheric acoustic waves in a non - magnetic environment . </S>",
    "<S> we compare slit - jaw images with spectra from the iris spectrograph . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the grain intensity in the 2796    slit - jaw filter comes from both the  core and wings . </S>",
    "<S> the signal in the and lines is too weak to explain the presence of grains in the 1300 and 1400    slit - jaw images and we conclude that the grain signal in these passbands comes mostly from the continuum . even though weak </S>",
    "<S> , the characteristic shock signatures of acoustic grains can often be detected in iris spectra . </S>",
    "<S> for some grains , spectral signature can be found in iris 4 . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that upward propagating acoustic waves sometimes reach all the way up to the transition region .    1 4 4 </S>"
  ]
}