{
  "article_text": [
    "the new zealand 30-m radio telescope facility is located near the township of warkworth , new zealand , just 5 km from the pacific coast .",
    "it was built in 1984 as a telecommunication antenna ( the earth station ) to be used by the new zealand post office , later by telecom new zealand . in 2010",
    "it was transferred to the institute for radio astronomy and space research ( irasr ) of auckland university of technology for conversion to a radio telescope .",
    "the 30-m antenna has a special wheel - on - track beam - waveguide ( bwg ) design .",
    "this design is often used for deep space network and telecommunications @xcite . the feed horn and the receiver",
    "are located in the pedestal and do not rotate when the antenna moves along the azimuth and elevation axes .",
    "a system of six mirrors directs the beam into the receiver ( see figure  [ f : bwg ] ) .",
    "the design of the  antenna should be taken into account for data reduction when dual - polarized data are processed .",
    "conversion of the 30-m antenna took three years and required a number of upgrades and repairs . among them",
    "was enabling the telescope to track sources with pointing accuracy @xmath1 , connecting the telescope with a 10  gbps internet , installation of an uncooled c - band receiver that was donated to irasr by jodrell bank observatory , installation of a new digital base band converter ( dbbc-2 ) @xcite , installation of a mark5b+ vlbi recorder , connection to the observatories existing hydrogen maser via a symmetricom fibre - optic distribution amplifier .",
    "detailed description of the upgrades and the specification of the warkworth 30-m radio telescope can by found in @xcite .",
    "this work was completed in late 2014 , fringe checks were performed and the antenna was ready for its first scientific vlbi experiment .    as a part of commissioning new antennas , the position of the antenna reference point should be determined .",
    "a reference point is defined as the point of the projection of the movable elevation axis onto the fixed azimuthal axis . for the analysis of vlbi source imaging experiments made in a phase - referencing mode , position of vlbi stations",
    "should be known with accuracy 1020  centimeters to avoid noticeable image smearing  ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    ". for astrometry applications , angular position accuracies of tens of @xmath2as are required , making the requirements on the accuracy of station positions much more stringent : 510  mm .",
    "one way of estimating the position of the antenna reference points is through analysis of a combination of a ground survey of markers attached to the antennas from a local network around the station and gps observations from the points in the local network ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "at the time of writing this had been planned for the warkworth 30  m antenna but not carried out .",
    "an alternative procedure for estimation of station position is to use the vlbi technique to determine group delays and then derive the reference point position from these group delay measurements .",
    "the advantage of the latter approach is that it also provides useful diagnostics of the vlbi equipment and can be combined with astronomical tasks .",
    "here we report results from the first scientific experiment conducted with  and two australian radio telescopes operated by the university of tasmania in hobart and ceduna @xcite on december 11 , 2014 .",
    "the vlbi experiment settings are presented in section [ s : exp ] . the data analysis for both geodetic and astronomical purposes",
    "is described in section [ s : anal ] .",
    "concluding remarks are made in section [ s : concl ] .",
    "since the  c - band receiver has a relatively narrow band , approximately 300  mhz , our choice of frequency range for vlbi observations was rather limited .",
    "we recorded right - circular polarization in a range [ 6.592 , 6.848 ]  ghz .",
    "the signal was split into 16 intermediate frequencies ( ifs ) of 16  mhz each and recorded with 2 bit sampling and an aggregate bit rate 1  gbps .",
    "this setup allows us to determine group delay with formal uncertainty 215  ps when the signal to noise ratio ( snr ) is 10 .",
    "two radiotelescopes in australia participated :  and  ( figure  [ f : map ] ) .",
    "we set three goals for the first scientific experiment :    * to determine the position of  with centimeter level of accuracy ; * to test the effectiveness of the southern vlbi array with  for monitoring radio flux density of @xmath0-ray sources ; * to test the usability of the southern vlbi array with  for association of @xmath0-ray sources discovered with _",
    "fermi _  by detecting their parsec - scale radio emission .",
    "the pool of 483 targets included all sources from the radio fundamental catalogue ( petrov and kovalev , 2015 , in preparation ) that are known to be brighter than 200  mjy at 8  ghz on baselines longer than 5000  km and are associated with @xmath0-ray sources . at the moment , 20% of sources with parsec - scale emission",
    "brighter than 200  mjy are known to be @xmath0-ray loud . restricting the source list only to these objects",
    "did not affect our ability to measure station positions . in total , 244 target sources were scheduled .",
    "this includes 7 radio sources from a dedicated australia telescope compact array ( atca ) 5.5/9.0  ghz survey @xcite never before observed with vlbi .",
    "these sources are located within the error ellipse of _ fermi _",
    "objects but marked as `` unassociated '' in the the 2fgl catalogue @xcite .",
    "as shown by @xcite , detection of parsec - scale radio emission is a powerful method for association of @xmath0-ray sources . since the number of compact radio sources is limited , as a rule of thumb , the probability of finding a compact background source with flux density from parsec scales brighter than 10  mjy at 8  ghz within the error ellipse of a @xmath0-ray object is less than 10% .",
    "observations were scheduled with software sur_sked in a sequence that minimizes slewing time and complies with the constraints that ( a )  the next source is located at a distance not less than @xmath3 and ( b )  the minimum temporal separation between consecutive observations of a target source is 3  hours .",
    "target sources were observed for 90  s each , except for those seven sources in the vicinity of unassociated 2fgl objects : they were observed for 300  s each . every hour a sequence of 4 scans of atmosphere calibrators",
    "was inserted in the schedule : two scans of sources at elevation angles in a range @xmath4 $ ] and two sources at elevation angles in a range @xmath5 $ ] .",
    "the purpose of including these scans in the schedule was to improve the robustness of estimation of residual atmospheric path delay in the zenith direction .",
    "the data were transferred electronically to hobart and correlated with the difx software @xcite .",
    "further processing was undertaken with the software package @xmath6 .",
    "we determined the complex bandpass using several strong sources . after applying the bandpass calibration",
    ", we performed fringe fitting for each observation , i.e. we determined group delay , phase delay rate , and group delay rate that maximizes the coherent sum of visibilities over time and frequency @xcite .",
    "the fringe plots for the /  baseline were as expected with no obvious anomalies ( see an example in figure  [ f : fp ] ) .",
    "unfortunately , the receiver frequency response at  did not match the response from other telescope receivers .",
    "fringe amplitude for baselines to  at frequencies higher than 6.620  ghz dropped by a factor of 10 ( figure  [ f : cdwa ] ) .",
    "the snr for baselines to  was typically a factor 4 worse than expected , and , therefore , uncertainty in group delays were higher by the same factor .",
    "this resulted in the non - detections of 19% of target sources due to the corresponding sensitivity degradation .",
    "nevertheless , the experiment did not fail , although position accuracy achieved was lower than expected .",
    "further processing was made with vlbi analysis software vtd / post - solve .",
    "after evaluation of group delays from visibility data , the theoretical path delays were computed using the state - of - the art model and small differences between them and the measured group delays were formed .",
    "a detailed description of this step can be found in @xcite .",
    "the a  priori slant path delays in the neutral atmosphere in the direction of observed sources were computed through numerical integration of differential equations representing the wave propagation through the heterogeneous media .",
    "the four - dimensional field of the refractivity index distribution was computed using the atmospheric pressure , air temperature , and specific humidity taken from the output of the modern era retrospective - analysis for research and applications ( merra ) @xcite .",
    "the output of the model presents the atmospheric parameters at a grid @xmath7 72 pressure levels @xmath8 .",
    "a priori slant path delays in the ionosphere were computed using global ionospheric maps of the total electron content derived from global navigation satellite system observations by the analysis center code .    in the initial least square ( lsq ) solution ,",
    "positions of all stations , except , were estimated , as well as the coefficients of the expansion for the clock function and the residual atmosphere path delay in zenith direction into the b - spline basis of the 1st degree . during the initial phase of the data analysis , outliers were eliminated and the baseline - dependent corrections to the a  priori weights defined to be reciprocal to formal uncertainties of group delays were determined in such a way that the ratio of the weighted sum of squares of residuals to their mathematical expectation was close to unity .",
    "the weighted root mean squares ( wrms ) of postfit residuals was 114  ps on /  baseline and 440  ps on baselines to .",
    "the increase of residuals with  was caused by the mismatch of the receiver s frequency response .",
    "the final lsq solution used all vlbi group delays collected from january 1984 through january 2015 , in total , 11.4 million values , including 705 group delays from this experiment .",
    "positions of all stations , coordinates of all sources , the earth orientation parameters , as well as over 1 million nuisance parameters were estimated in a single lsq run .",
    "the differences in velocity of  and  was constrained to zero .",
    "station  has a significant axis offset , the distance between the azimuth fixed axis and the moving elevation axis .",
    "we have adjusted that parameter in our vlbi data analysis .",
    "minimal constraints were imposed to require that the net - translation and net - rotation over new position estimates of 44 stations with long history with respect to positions of observations to these stations in the itrf2000 catalogue @xcite be zero .",
    "this ensures that the positions of all stations , including  be consistent with the itrf2000 catalogue .",
    "more details about the parameter estimation technique can be found in @xcite .",
    "the position estimate of  at epoch 2000.01.01 is provided in table  [ t : coord ] .",
    "the errors reported in the table are the formal uncertainties from the lsq solution computed in accordance with the error propagation law .",
    "projected to the local coordinate system , the uncertainties are 105 , 14 , and 12  mm for the up , east , and north components respectively .",
    "high uncertainty in the up component is due the necessity to estimate antenna axis offset .",
    "these two parameters correlate .",
    "if we choose not to estimate axis offset , but keep its value to 2500  mm , as specified by the antenna manufacturer , the position uncertainties drop to 38 , 12 , and 9  mm respectively .    .coordinates and velocities of wark30 m derived from analysis of the vlbi experiment on epoch 2000.0 .",
    "[ t : coord ] [ cols= \" < , > , > , > , < \" , ]     ( 3 ) : flag `` c '' denotes the source was used as an amplitude calibrator ; ( 4 ) : the number of observations ; ( 5 ) : correlated flux density in jy ; ( 6 ) : uncertainty of correlated flux density in jy .",
    "table [ t : flux ] is published in its entirety in the electronic edition of the journal .",
    "a portion is shown here for guidance regarding its form and content .",
    "m from wise .",
    "the 2-@xmath9 error ellipse around 2fgl j1032.9 - 8401 position denoted as a triangle is shown with red colour .",
    "the blue dot shows 1031 - 837 position . ,",
    "title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=46.0% ] m from wise .",
    "the 2-@xmath9 error ellipse around 2fgl j1032.9 - 8401 position denoted as a triangle is shown with red colour .",
    "the blue dot shows 1031 - 837 position .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=47.0% ]    using empirical gain factors , we evaluated the average flux density of each of the 238 sources observed in this experiment .",
    "the average flux density of was found to be @xmath10  mjy . since it was detected only in four scans on the /  baseline",
    ", no information about its structure can be derived .",
    "nevertheless , using information that we derived from analysis of this experiment , namely , its correlated flux density at projected baseline 50  @xmath11 and its position , 1.96 _ fermi _   position uncertainty , we were able to compute the likelihood ratio of its association with the @xmath0-ray object as defined in @xcite : 22.8 .",
    "that means that the probability of the @xmath0-ray source and the radio source being the same object is by a factor of 22.8 greater than the probability of two unrelated objects being incidentally projected close to each other .",
    "thus , we conclude that we have established an association between the radio and @xmath0-ray sources .",
    "there is a source wise j103015.28 - 840308.6 from the wide - field infrared survey explorer ( wise ) catalogue ( allwise ,",
    "november 13 , 2013 @xcite ) within 90  mas of position ( see figure  [ f:1031 - 837 ] ) .",
    "cross - matching the wise and the radio fundamental catalogue finds 5984 matches .",
    "fitting parameters of the rayleigh distribution to distances between source positions of matches we found that the estimate of the 1@xmath9 uncertainty along each coordinate axis is 95  mas .",
    "we interpret this estimate as a measure of position accuracy of the allwise catalogue for point - like sources .",
    "therefore , we conclude that 1031 - 837 and j103015.28 - 840308.6 are the same object .",
    "it was detected in all 4  bands of wise instrument with magnitudes of 14.10 , 13.11 , 10.27 , and 8.16 at 3.4 , 4.6 , 12 and 22 @xmath2 m , respectively .",
    "figure  [ f:1031 - 837 ] demonstrates that the number of ir sources within the _ fermi _  position error ellipse is so high , that their association with the @xmath0-ray object is impossible without use of additional information .    analyzing the flux densities of other sources",
    ", we found that the typical detection limit for 90  s integration on the /   baseline ranged from 40 to 70  mjy with a median value of 50  mjy . fixing the cryogenic problem experienced at  promises to reduce the detection limit to a 20  mjy level .",
    "a new radio astronomy antenna  has observed successfully its first scientific vlbi experiment .",
    "its position with uncertainty over the vertical coordinate 5  cm and horizontal coordinates 1  cm has been determined .",
    "error analysis shows that the systematic errors are a factor of 2 smaller than these uncertainties .",
    "the averaged sefd at @xmath12 elevation angle was 650  jy .",
    "the first scientific experiment allowed us to establish an association of _ fermi _  detected @xmath0-ray source 2fgl j1032.9 - 8401 that was previously considered unassociated .",
    "position of its radio counterpart was determined with the uncertainties of 4.6  mas over both coordinate components and its correlated flux density was found to be @xmath13  mjy .",
    "we conclude that  is ready for scientific programs .        at the moment",
    ", there are several vlbi arrays that are actively observing : the very long baseline array ( vlba ) , the european vlbi network ( evn ) , the vlbi exploration for radio astronomy ( vera ) , the korean vlbi network ( kvn ) , the chinese vlbi network ( cvn ) , the russian quasar network , and the long baseline array .",
    "all these arrays , except the last , are located in the northern hemisphere and can not observe sources with declinations less than @xmath14 .",
    "will be a valuable addition to the network of sensitive southern telescopes ( sefd less than 1000  jy ) : 26 m hartrao , 30 m ceduna , 64 m parkes , 22 m mopra , 6x22 m atca , and 26  m hobart .",
    "figure [ f : uvp ] shows the _ uv_-coverage when this seven - station array observes the 1934 - 638 .",
    "tracks of baselines with stations to  are highlighted in with red .",
    "the main focus of vlbi programs with   is anticipated to be participating in surveys targeting sources in the declination zone @xmath15 $ ] and exploring peculiar objects , mainly in this declination zone inaccessible to the arrays in the northern hemisphere .",
    "these programs will be complement to programs that are conducted in the northern hemisphere and will convert them into all - sky surveys .",
    "we anticipate that the most valuable contribution of the southern vlbi array with  participation will be given to those programs that benefit from completeness and all - sky coverage .",
    "these programs include the absolute astrometry survey that is used for space navigation , for a connection of vlbi and _ gaia _ coordinate systems , as a list of phase calibrators for phase referencing programs , and for other important applications , such as the vlbi survey of a flux - limited sample of compact radio sources ; for a search for associations of @xmath0-ray sources .",
    "we have plans to equip  with a cooled c - band receiver , an x - band receiver and with the a 2  gbps recording system in 2015 .    among the 244 observed sources , 175",
    "have been detected in three or more observations .",
    "we determined their correlated flux densities with errors 15% ( see table  [ t : flux ] ) .",
    "this shows the potential of a southern hemisphere vlbi array to contribute to programs of flux density monitoring of active galaxy nuclei associated with @xmath0-ray sources .",
    "the tanami program of monitoring 84 radio sources associated with @xmath0-ray objects in the southern hemisphere with the australian long baseline array ( lba ) @xcite whose goal is to provide a time series of images .",
    "however , tanami observes 2530 sources per 24 hour experiment at a 610 station network , i.e. requires more than one order of magnitude more resources .",
    "a program of coarse flux density monitoring of a much wider list will be complimentary to tanami . by march 2015 , there are 270 known @xmath0-ray sources with declinations @xmath16 associated with the radio sources that exhibit emission from milliarsec regions detected with vlbi .",
    "all these sources can be observed in a 2730  hour observing session .",
    "a program of monthly monitoring of these sources has the potential to check their variability and derive light curves .",
    "both vlbi and single - dish spectral observations in c - band can potentially include spectral line observations of oh maser lines at 6.03 and 6.035  ghz and methanol masers at 6.7 ghz , which are important for the identification and study of star - forming regions .",
    "for example , 6.7  ghz methanol masers are exclusively associated with the early stages of high - mass star formation and vlbi observations can be used to obtain accurate distance estimates through trigonometric parallax .",
    "single dish observations with the 30 m radio telescope in new zealand can be used to monitoring of the variability of methanol maser sources found by the parkes multi - beam survey  @xcite .",
    "this research has made use of the data products from the wide - field infrared survey explorer and the nasa/ ipac infrared science archive , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "we thank dimitri duev for careful checking numeric tables .",
    "petrov ,  l , phillips ,  c. , tzioumis ,  t. , stansby ,  b. , reynolds  c. , bignall ,  h.  e. , gulyaev  s. , natusch  t. , palmer  n. , collett  d. , reynolds  j.  e. , amy  s.  w. , wayth  r. , tingay  s.j .",
    ", , 2011b , 28(2 ) , 107116        rienecker ,  m.  m. , suarez  m.  j. , gelaro  r. , todling  r. , bacmeister  j. , liu  e. , bosilovich  m.  g. , schubert  s.  d. , takacs  l. , kim  g .- k . ,",
    "bloom  s. , chen  j. , collins  d. , conaty  a. , da silva  a. , 2011 , j. climate , 24 , 36243648            tuccari ,  g. , alef ,  w. , bertarini ,  a. , buttaccio ,  s. , comoretto ,  g. , graham ,  d. , neidhardt ,  a. , platania ,  p.  r. , russo ,  a. , roy ,  a. , wunderlich ,  m. , zeith ,  r. , xiang ,  y. , dbbc vlbi2010 , 2010 , in proceedigs of the ifs general assembly , 28"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the results of a successful 24  hour 6.7  ghz vlbi experiment using the 30 meter radio telescope  near warkworth , new zealand , recently converted from a radio telecommunications antenna , and two radio telescopes located in australia : hobart 26-m and ceduna 30-m . </S>",
    "<S> the geocentric position of  is determined with a 100  mm uncertainty for the vertical component and 10  mm for the horizontal components . </S>",
    "<S> we report correlated flux densities at 6.7 ghz of 175 radio sources associated with _ </S>",
    "<S> fermi _   @xmath0-ray sources . </S>",
    "<S> a parsec scale emission from the radio source 1031 - 837 is detected , and its association with the @xmath0-ray object 2fgl j1032.9 - 8401 is established with a high likelihood ratio . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the new pacific area radio telescope   is ready to operate for scientific projects . </S>"
  ]
}