{
  "article_text": [
    "the internet has witnessed a significant increase in the popularity of media streaming with multi - source channels . in traditional video broadcast ,",
    "the content of a channel generally comes from a single source , though it could be replicated and then streamed from different servers in a content distribution network ( cdn ) .",
    "a _ multi - source _ system , however , not only serves massive audience worldwide , but its content also comes from multiple contributing sources . for example , since feb .",
    "17 , 2012 , nasa television s public and media channels began to transmit their respective content in high definition ( hd ) , with live feeds from such space centers as the nasa headquarters , the johnson space center , and the goddard space flight center . with their respective content sources , they collectively serve the users interested in the stories and the latest news from nasa . in the very recent 2014",
    "sochi winter olympics , nbc had a total of 41 live feeds distributed both in solchi and in the usa , and in fifa world cup 2014 , when a goal was scored , cbc synchronized the live scenes of the cheering fans in the public squares from a number of cities worldwide in its live streaming channel .",
    "the evolution is driven further by today s advanced mobile / tablet devices that can readily capture high quality video anywhere and anytime ( e.g. iphone 6 supports both 60 fps 1080p video recording , and 720 fps slow - motion recording for 720p videos ) , and such mainstream video sharing platforms as youtube and veedme have already enabled multi - party collaborative video content production .",
    "all these together are shifting the video service paradigm from the conventional single source , to multi - source , to many source , and now toward _ crowd source _ , in which the available video sources for the content of interest become highly diverse and scalable .",
    "global streaming imposes high demand on end device capabilities and network connections .",
    "the situation is further complicated in a crowdsourced streaming system .",
    "first , crowdsourced videos are geo - distributed : they come from all over the world , and then spread all over the world .",
    "not only the scale of the consumers is enormous , but also is that of the contributors ; second , the crowdsourcers are often much more dynamic than dedicated content providers , as they can start or terminate a video contribution as their own will .",
    "this is particularly true when non - professionals using their smartphones / tablets for video production ; third , for collective content production , massive server capacity is necessary to deal with online video synchronization , processing , and transcoding for highly heterogeneous video contributors and consumers . for example ,",
    "twitch tv , the world s leading video platform and community for gamers , allows any of its users to broadcast their live streaming videos online through their pcs or ps3/xbox consoles .",
    "it attracts over 44 million visitors per month , and every second its servers are loaded with thousands of live channels .",
    "for such a large system , significant effort is needed to collect the highly dynamic and distributed video streams online , and to process and distribute the live channels to subscribers all over the world .",
    "elastic resource provisioning and computation offloading are where _ cloud computing _ platforms excel @xcite .",
    "we have seen many new generation of cloud - based multimedia services that emerged in recent years , e.g. , netflix , which are rapidly changing the operation and business models in the market .",
    "facing similar scale challenges , crowdsourced live streaming would benefit from the cloud services , too . yet",
    "the distributed and highly dynamic sources , as well as the much more stringent delay constraints imposed by live streaming , make the problem more involving , which remains to be explored with novel and distinct solutions .    in this paper , using realworld measurement , we identify the potential benefits as well as the key challenges when crowdsourced video meets cloud .",
    "we present a generic framework for a cost - effective cloud service that provisions cloud resources in a fine granularity to work with geo - distributed video crowdsourcers . using adaptive and collaborative leasing strategies",
    ", our design well accommodates the diverse capacities and prices of cloud instances , and addresses the location impact to the streaming quality .",
    "we have built a prototype system running over the internet and the amazon ec2/microsoft azure cloud , and the experimental results experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution in terms of both deployment cost and streaming quality .",
    "the remainder of this paper proceeds as follows .",
    "section 2 discusses the background and related work .",
    "section 3 presents an overview of the crowdsourced live streaming system , and analyzes its unique challenges using realworld data traces . in section 4",
    ", we first investigate the inherent problem of cloud leasing strategy .",
    "an optimal solution is then developed to deal with geo - distributed crowdsourcers in section 5 . in section 6",
    ", we present a prototype platform with the measurement results and the trace - driven simulation .",
    "finally , section 7 concludes the paper and discusses potential future directions .",
    "in the past two decades , video streaming over the internet has quickly risen to become a mainstream `` killer '' application @xcite . for large scale distribution , many existing systems rely on content distribution networks ( cdns ) @xcite or peer - to - peer ( p2p )  @xcite , or hybrid solutions @xcite .",
    "more recently , with the flexible and elastic resource provisioning , cloud computing has been proven to be an efficient solution toward highly scalable video distribution .",
    "a prominent example is netflix , a major on - demand internet video provider .",
    "netflix migrated its entire infrastructure to the powerful amazon aws cloud in 2012 , using ec2 for transcoding master video copies to 50 different versions for heterogeneous end users and s3 for content storage  @xcite . in total , netflix has over 1 petabyte of media data stored in amazon s cloud .",
    "it leases the computation , bandwidth and storage resources with much lower long - term costs than those with over - provisioned self - owned servers , and reacts better and faster to user demand with the dramatically increasing scale .",
    "there have been pioneer studies on migrating video services to the cloud to accommodate worldwide - distributed and time - varying video demands  @xcite @xcite .",
    "aggarwal et al .",
    "@xcite showed that the cost of iptv services can be noticeably reduced through a cloud infrastructure , and wu et al .",
    "@xcite utilized a geo - distributed cloud to support large scale social media streaming applications .",
    "wang et al .",
    "@xcite presented calms ( cloud - assisted live media streaming ) to lease and adjust cloud server resources in a fine granularity , meeting with the temporal and spatial dynamics of demands from online users .    empowered by today s rich tools for media generation and collaborative production , and the convenient internet access , _ crowdsourcing _ further extends the single - source paradigm .",
    "it combines the efforts of multiple self - identified contributors , known as _",
    "crowdsourcers _ , for a greater result , and has seen success in many areas  @xcite .",
    "for example , lifs ( locating in fingerprint space ) was developed for wireless indoor localization with smartphones based crowdsourcing @xcite .",
    "@xcite used crowdsourcing approach to optimize mobile devices energy efficiency by utilizing signal strength traces shared by other devices in cellular networks .",
    "for video applications , a scalable system that allows users to perform content - based searches on continuous collection of crowdsourced video was proposed in  @xcite .",
    "biel et al .",
    "@xcite investigated the the crowdsourcing of personal and social traits in online social video or social media content in general . recently",
    ", youtube has integrated with google moderator , a crowdsourcing and feedback production , to increase the engagement between viewers and content creators .",
    "such other video sharing sites as poptent and veedme have also opened interfaces for crowdsourcers with user generated content .",
    "crowdsourced live streaming services have emerged in the market as well , especially for streaming sports online broadcast .",
    "examples include stream2watch.me and sportlemon.tv .",
    "our study is motivated by these pioneer works .",
    "yet crowdsourced live streaming demands efficient content collection , processing , and distribution with stringent delay constraints , which remain to be explored .",
    "this paper highlights these unique challenges , particularly when crowdsourced live streaming meets cloud , and presents our initial attempts toward addressing these challenges .",
    "we illustrate a generic crowdsourced live streaming system with geo - distributed _ crowdsourcers _ and _ viewers _ in fig . [ fig:1 ] . a set of crowdsourcers ( or _ sourcers _ in short )",
    "upload their individual video contents in realtime , which , through a video production engine , collectively produce a single video stream .",
    "the stream is then lively distributed to viewers of interest .",
    "both the sourcers and viewers can be heterogenous , in terms of their network bandwidth , and their hardware / software configurations for video capture and playback . as such",
    ", realtime transcoding is necessary during both uploading and downloading , so as to unify the diverse video bitrates / formats from different sourcers for content production , and to replicate the output video stream to serve the heterogeneous viewers , possibly through through a cdn with such adaptation mechanisms as dash ( dynamic adaptive streaming over http )  @xcite .",
    "this generic architecture reflects that of state - of - the - art realworld systems .",
    "for example , nbc s video content from the 41 feeds in sochi winter olympics were encoded by windows azure media services to the 1080p format , and dynamically transcoded into hls and hds formats .",
    "these streams were then pulled from azure to the akamai s cdn and distributed to audiences on targeted devices , resulting in over 3000 hours of live olympics streaming contents .    given the large system scale and the high bandwidth , storage , and computation demands involved , cloud services with elastic resource provisioning is expected .",
    "we again consider a generic geo - distributed cloud infrastructure , which consists of multiple _ cloud sites _ distributed in different geographical locations ( e.g. , us east ( n. virginia ) and eu ( ireland ) in amazon ec2 cloud)@xcite .",
    "each cloud site resides in a data center , and contains a collection of interconnected and virtualized servers .",
    "the server resources will be provisioned for crowdsourced live streaming , e.g. , computation resources for collective production and transcoding .",
    "optimization for conventional single - source video streaming is generally _ viewer - driven _ ; the resource provisioning depends on the distribution of the viewers . in crowdsourced video , however , the sourcers themselves come from all over the world , whose distribution must be as well taken into account during resource provisioning .",
    "this is further aggravated given that the collaborative production escalates the demands on both bandwidth and computation .",
    "the crowdsourced streaming workflow is also much more dynamic , as individual sourcers can start / terminate based on their own schedules .",
    ".top 5 sourcers from twitch.tv on july , 12th [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we have implemented the crowdsourced live streaming system as a prototype based on planetlab , amazon cloud , microsoft azure cloud , and the opensource vlc / vlm coder , and have conducted realworld experiments to understand its performance .",
    "we have also performed trace - driven simulations to further evaluate the system performance in large scale .      in our prototype implementation , both the live crowdsourcers and end users are deployed in 398 planetlab nodes , which are set up with vlc media player ` 0.8.7 janus ` on each node .",
    "we deploy the federation of cloud service from microsoft azure cloud and amazon cloud in our prototype platform .",
    "these two cloud service providers can offer totally @xmath0 cloud sites distributed all over the world . in each cloud site",
    ", the ` general purpose instances ` are provisioned with ` medium ( a2 ) ` from microsoft azure cloud and ` m3.medium ` from amazon cloud .",
    "each provisioned instance is set up with ` ubuntu 14.04 lts ` and installed with vlm to manage multiple live streaming channels .",
    "further , we deploy the cloudfront cdn service in ` all edge locations ` for the globalized content delivery to the geo - distributed viewers . in order to evaluate the streaming quality ,",
    "the live feeds are generated through videos uploaded from the distributed planetlab nodes .",
    "we use a series of test videos with different resolutions and bitrates .",
    "each dedicated sourcer stores one of these videos as its own live feed .",
    "we deploy 18 cloud sites in different regions from amazon cloud and microsoft azure , 9 from america area , 3 from europe area , and 6 from asia pacific , respectively . to explore the distribution of the 398 planetlab nodes",
    ", we measure the rtt latency between the nodes and the cloud sites , and use the cloud site with the minimal latency to approximate their locations . in fig .",
    "[ fig : rtt ] , we present the nodes population and the average rtt latency from their top 1 preferred cloud sites . with the latency results ,",
    "each sourcer can construct a preference list of the cloud sites . in order to measure the delay ,",
    "we implement a live streaming of a timer video from the planetlab node to the cloud server .",
    "we also use ` ffmpeg ` to measure the frame loss ratio during the live streaming through recording the number of duplicated frames ( i.e. because the current frame is not received by the playback deadline , the former frame is duplicated ) and dropped frames ( i.e. the frame is received but corrupted ) .",
    "these planetlab nodes are divided into groups according to the rtt latency in fig .",
    "[ fig : rtt ] .",
    "we present the streaming delay in different areas in fig .",
    "[ gdelay ] , and frame loss ratio with different videos in fig .",
    "[ glost ] .",
    "generally , we can see the streaming delay increase more than 80% if the latency is above 20ms . on the other hand ,",
    "the frame loss ratio is stable when the latency is under 200ms .",
    "we will further investigate the server provisioning cost and the video streaming quality of the cloud - based strategies through the implementation on the prototype platform .",
    "besides our proposed ` optimal migration ` ( om ) strategy , two other cloud - based strategies are implemented for comparison .",
    "the ` top preferred first ` ( top ) strategy deploys all the available cloud sites to allocate the service for sourcers in their most preferred cloud site .",
    "meanwhile , in ` centralized provisioning ` ( cp ) strategy the cloud servers are allocated in the regions with the most sourcers . here we select virginia and singapore as the central regions , and consider cp as the benchmark strategy .",
    "the implementation details of the cloud leasing strategy are presented in tab .",
    "[ tab:2 ] .",
    "for example , m3 @xmath1 1 + m1 @xmath1 1 ( singapore ) means one m3.xlarge instance and one m1.large instance are provisioned in singapore region to serve 16 sourcers .",
    "we also calculate the server provisioning cost per hour according to the prices of amazon ec2 .",
    "cloudfront is deployed as cdn for the global distribution , and we record the average frame loss ratio from 20 distributed users . generally the frame loss ratios can be reduced by about 10% for top and om strategies .",
    "especially , for the plantlab nodes in china , the improvement can reach almost 30% with the proposed strategy . comparing with top strategy , our proposed solution saves 8.34% cost , and improves 9.1% video quality on average .      to further evaluate the performance of the proposed strategy in larger scale",
    ", we simulate the system with the real world trace data from twitch.tv and the measurement results from the prototype system .",
    "the diverse prices of distributed cloud sites are referred to amazon cloud and microsoft azure cloud .",
    "we consider a conventional ` centralized dedicated server ` ( cds ) strategy as the benchmark , in which the single server is allocated in the central region to service the global requests .",
    "the price cost should cover the peak user demand , and we will take this cost as the budget constraint in our proposed om strategy . we also set @xmath2 and the preference value is inversely proportional to the rtt latency . another two cloud based strategies",
    "are deployed for comparison .",
    "all these cloud - based strategies can scale their provisioning capacity adaptively to the user demand .",
    "[ reducedelay ] shows the streaming delay reduction of the three cloud - based strategies comparing with the benchmark cds strategy .",
    "generally , top and om strategies , which deploy the geo - distributed cloud service , can reduce almost @xmath3 streaming delay of the benchmark strategy .",
    "the cp strategy can have an improvement only when most of viewers concentrate on several sourcers from the same region ( e.g. 3:00am-8:00am in asia and 13:00pm-16:00pm in europe ) .",
    "different from the streaming delay reduction , the frame loss reduction is more dynamic with time variations in fig .",
    "[ reducelost ] . before 8:00 am ,",
    "most of popular sourcers are from europe and asia , the cds strategy would suffer from the long transmission , despite the total number of streams is not large , and there is still extra available bandwidth capacity for the rented server .",
    "after 9:00am , sourcers from north america attract more viewer demand .",
    "then dedicated server can provide an acceptable service with less frame loss ratio . in fig .",
    "[ cost ] , we present the cost ratio between the three cloud - based strategies and the benchmark strategy .",
    "as the server instances are allocated in the distributed cloud sites with diverse prices , the top1 strategy can lead to a higher cost when the peak demand comes .",
    "because of the budget constraint , the provisioning cost in our proposed strategy is limited under the cost of the benchmark . yet , comparing with the top strategy , the gap of streaming delay and frame loss ratio can still be kept within @xmath4 , and almost @xmath5 of the provisioning cost is saved through the service migration during peak demand .",
    "in this paper , we explored the emerging crowdsourced live streaming systems , in which both the number and distribution of the crowdsourcers can be highly dynamic .",
    "it further motivated the design of cloud leasing strategy to optimize the cloud site allocation for geo - distributed live crowdsourcers .",
    "a prototype of crowdsourced live streaming platform was built with amazon cloud / microsoft azure and planetlab nodes .",
    "the performance of the proposed strategy was evaluated through extensive experiments .",
    "our work is an initial study , and there are still many open issues to be further explored .",
    "we plan to continue enhancing our design by conducting more evaluations on our prototype with larger scale experiments .",
    "our ongoing work includes tailoring our method for some specific crowdsourced live streaming applications , such as synchronizing multiple collaborative crowdsourced live videos for 3d immersive environment reconstruction or real - time interaction .",
    "we are also interested in extending our current deployment strategy to a more general scenario , in which the distributed server instances can cooperate with cdns for a larger service coverage with a lower cost .",
    "in addition , we believe that the dynamic geo - distributed crowdsourcers are predictable , in which there are two major types of live sources , namely , scheduled sources and non - scheduled sources .",
    "the scheduled sources mean the crowdsourcers follow some social event during a certain time , such as a presidential election , or a football match , which is easy to predict . as to the non - scheduled sources",
    ", the crowdsourcers can start their live streaming arbitrarily .",
    "the time - varying live sources usually relate to the dynamic viewers demand , since the crowdsourcers are motivated to get more subscribers as a reward .",
    "they tend to broadcast in a fixed time every day , or choose a period when a peak number of viewers can be achieved .",
    "this behavior of crowdsourcers is evident in some modern crowdsourced live streaming platform , such as twitch.tv .",
    "our solution could be enhanced with crowdsourcer prediction through user behavior analysis from real - world measurement results .",
    "this research is supported by natural sciences and engineering research council of canada ( nserc ) , a start - up grant from the university of mississippi , a start - up grant from the jiangnan university , the national natural science foundation of china ( no . 61103223 ) and the natural science foundation of jiangsu province ( no .",
    "bk2011003 ) .",
    "b. li , z. wang , j. liu , and w. zhu , `` two decades of internet video streaming : a retrospective view , acm transactions on multimedia computing , communications and applications , '' special issue on 20th anniversary of acm sigmm multimedia , 9(1):1 - 20 , october 2013 .",
    "z. ou , j. dong , s. dong , j. wu , a. yl - jski , p. hui , r. wang , and a. min , `` utilize signal traces from others ?",
    "a crowdsourcing perspective of energy saving in cellular data communication , '' ieee transactions on mobile computing , 14(1):194 - 207 , 2015 .",
    "v. aggarwal , v. gopalakrishnan , r. jana , k. k. ramakrishnan , and v. a. vaishampayan , `` optimizing cloud resources for delivering iptv services through virtualization '' , ieee transactions on multimedia , 15(4):789 - 801 , 2013 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> empowered by today s rich tools for media generation and distribution , and the convenient internet access , _ crowdsourced streaming _ generalizes the single - source streaming paradigm by including massive contributors for a video channel . </S>",
    "<S> it calls a joint optimization along the path from crowdsourcers , through streaming servers , to the end - users to minimize the overall latency . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamics of the video sources , together with the globalized request demands and the high computation demand from each sourcer , make crowdsourced live streaming challenging even with powerful support from modern cloud computing . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we present a generic framework that facilitates a cost - effective cloud service for crowdsourced live streaming . through </S>",
    "<S> adaptively leasing , the cloud servers can be provisioned in a fine granularity to accommodate geo - distributed video crowdsourcers . </S>",
    "<S> we present an optimal solution to deal with service migration among cloud instances of diverse lease prices . </S>",
    "<S> it also addresses the location impact to the streaming quality . to understand the performance of the proposed strategies in the realworld , we have built a prototype system running over the planetlab and the amazon / microsoft cloud . </S>",
    "<S> our extensive experiments demonstrate that the effectiveness of our solution in terms of deployment cost and streaming quality . </S>"
  ]
}