{
  "article_text": [
    "the liquid argon time projection chamber ( lar - tpc ) detector idea was proposed by c.rubbia in 1977 @xcite .",
    "it provides excellent imaging ability of charged particles , making it ideal for studying neutrino oscillation parameters , sterile neutrinos existence @xcite , charge parity violation , violation of baryonic number conservation and dark matter searches .",
    "the lar - tpc technique is used in several projects around the world @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite .",
    "the icarus t600 @xcite was the largest working detector located at gran sasso in the underground italian national laboratory operating on cngs beam ( cern neutrinos to gran sasso ) . in this study",
    ", the t600 will be used as a reference detector as other existing or planned lar - tpc detectors have the similar construction and settings .    in the lar - tpc detector",
    "a charged particle produces both scintillation light and ionization electrons along its path .",
    "the scintillation light , which is poor compared to ionisation charge , is detected by photomultipliers which trigger the read - out process .",
    "free electrons from ionizing particles drift in an uniform electric field toward the anode .",
    "they can drift to macroscopic distances because its diffussion approximate value 4.8 @xmath0/s in highly purified liquid argon is much slower than electron drift velocity 1.59 mm/@xmath1s .",
    "the anode consists of three wire planes , so - called induction1 , induction2 , collection .",
    "a signal is induced in a non - destructive way on the first two wire planes , which are practically transparent to the drifting electrons .",
    "the signal on the third wire plane ( collection ) is formed by collecting the ionization charge .",
    "it is also the source of the calorimetric measurement .",
    "the wires in consecutive planes are oriented in three different degrees with respect to the horizontal with 3 mm spacing between wires in the plane .",
    "this allows to localize the signal source in the xz plane , whereas y coordinate is calcuated from wire signal timing and electron drift velocity .",
    "signal on wires is amplified and digitized with 2.5 mhz sampling frequency which results in 0.64 mm spatial resolution along the drift coordinate .",
    "the digitized waveforms from consecutive wires placed next to each other form a 2d projection images of an event .",
    "the image size resolution is 0.64 mm x 3 mm .",
    "the registered images are input for reconstruction and particle identification algorithms , which estimate physical quantities from events observed in the detector .",
    "to our knowledge , all recently presented analysis assume that images are preprocessed into so - called set of hits @xcite , @xcite , @xcite .",
    "each hit represents a position of signal on wire coming from particle s track .",
    "hit has information about the beginning , the end and the peak of the particle s track signal on wire .",
    "hits are obtained by fitting a multiple reference signal pulses on wire s signal .",
    "this approach has some limitations .",
    "the hit fitting algorithm distinguishes signal from particle s track and noise based on defined threshold value , which can fail in case of noise with high amplitude .",
    "this can be a common case during analysis of images deconvoluted with impulse response of the wire signal readout chain , because the signal - to - noise ratio descends .",
    "what is more , the hit unit can be imprecise in case of multiple tracks overlapping in the same position in the image .",
    "these drawbacks can be overcame by constructing algorithms working directly on raw images . in this paper , the novel method for images segmentation from lar - tpc detectors is presented , which can be used as a preprocessing step for reconstruction and identification algorithms working directly on images from detector .",
    "furthermore , this segmentation method can be used to improve hit fitting procedure by replacing identification of particle s track based on threshold value . the presented approach use a supervised classifier working on a feature descriptor which characterizes the amplitude distribution in pixel and its neighbourhood .",
    "the classifier is trained and evaluated on a hand - labeled dataset .",
    "the performance of the proposed method is compared with segmentation based on threshold value .",
    "the importance of proposed features is studied .",
    "describing image by set of features is a common approach in computer vision @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite .",
    "the feature vector is constructed to obtain the relevant information from the image data .",
    "herein , in order to characterize distribution of signal in the pixel and its neighbourhood a feature descriptor is constructed , consisting of 42 features , which are described below :    * pixel value , proportional to the charge value ; * signal statistics , which describe the amplitude distribution in the pixel and its neighbourhood , represented by : maximum , minimum , median , mean and standard deviation computed for 3x3 , 5x5 and 7x7 kernel sizes ; * difference of gaussians , which is substraction of two blurred images with gaussian kernel with different standard deviations , which can be viewed as band - pass filter . used pairs of standard deviations",
    "are : @xmath2 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 , @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 , @xmath10 ; * image gradient magnitude , which detects sudden changes in the amplitude , the prewitt operator was used for gradient computation ; * ordered eigenvalues of image s hessian as well as sum and multiplication of them , which describes the second order of local image intesity ; * ordered eigenvalues of image s tensor , together with sum and multiplication of them for kernel sizes 3x3 , 5x5 , 7x7 , which indicates the strength of the directional intensity change .    the similar configuration of proposed features is often used in image analysis in medicine @xcite , @xcite .",
    "recently , the usage of image tensor eigenvalues was proposed for detecting points of interest and delta electrons in images from lar - tpc detector @xcite .      to generate datasets the fluka software @xcite and",
    "t600 detector parameters were used .",
    "the events were generated for 2 gev energy . from obtained events 50 images for induction2 and collection views",
    "were independently selected .",
    "the two views were chosen to present the performance of the proposed method on two sources of images which have different characteristics of the signal .",
    "all images were deconvoluted with impulse response of wire signal readout chain of each plane and resized to have similar resolution on both axis . the dedicated application with graphical user interface",
    "was used to manually label the dataset .",
    "the pixels representing particle s track are noted as a positive class whereas noise pixels as a negative class . for each pixel in the dataset",
    "the feature vector was computed according to the description in section [ features ] .",
    "the feature vector together with class label of the pixel form a sample in the dataset .",
    "the dataset was divided into train and test subsets .",
    "there are 40 events in the train subset and 10 events in the test subset in each considered plane .",
    "the number of samples in each subset for induction2 and collection views are presented in table [ datasets ] .",
    "they are different because the readout procedure is triggered by photomultipliers only on subset of wires , from which particle s track is registered .",
    "the classes are highly imbalanced in considered datasets",
    ". the ratios of positives to negatives in train dataset are 1:305 and 1:109 for induction2 and collection views , respectively .",
    ".the number of samples in train and test subsets for induction2 and collection views .",
    "positive samples represent particle s track pixels whereas negative samples represent noise .",
    "[ cols= \" > , > , > , > , > \" , ]     0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4",
    "the efficient computerized methods for automatic analysis of observed events are required to fully exploit the imaging potential of lar - tpc detectors . herein , the novel method for image segmentation is presented . in the proposed approach",
    "the feature descriptor for each pixel in image is computed .",
    "it describes the distribution of signal in the pixel and its neighbourhood .",
    "based on constructed features the classifier makes a decision whether pixel represents particle s track or noise .",
    "the two popular classifiers were examined , namely : logistic regression and random forest . the classifier was trained and evaluated on the hand - labeled dataset on images from two distinct views .",
    "the proposed method outperforms with large margin the widely used method of image thresholding based on pixel amplitude on both induction2 and collection views .",
    "the method is an universal and can be used for various characteristic of the signal in the image after the classifier training .",
    "the proposed method can be used as a preprocessing step for reconstructing algorithms working directly on raw images . on the next step of event analysis pixels in close neighbourhood with positive class label",
    "will be clustered into tracks .",
    "the performance of the method can be further improved by using other classifiers algorithms , like multi - layer perceptron @xcite or extending the feature vector",
    ". it would be interesting to compare the proposed method working on prepared feature descriptor with method working on automatically constructed features from convolutional neural network @xcite .",
    "pp and kz acknowledge the support of the national science center ( harmonia 2012/04/m / st2/00775 ) .",
    "authors are grateful to the icarus collaboration and polish neutrino group for useful suggestions and constructive discussions during a preliminary part of this work .",
    "bjrn , a. , kthe , u. , helmstaedter , m. , denk , w. , hamprecht , f.,a . , segmentation of sbfsem volume data of neural tissue by hierarchical classification , lecture notes in computer science , vol.5096 , pp 142 - 152 , 2008            grycuk , r. , gabryel , m. , korytkowski , m. , romanowski , j. , scherer , r. , improved digital image segmentation based on stereo vision and mean shift algorithm , parallel processing and applied mathematics , pp 433 - 443 , 2014          kostadinov , d. , voloshynovskiy , s. , ferdowsi , s. , diephuis , m. , scherer , r. , robust face recognition by group sparse representation that uses samples from list of subjects , lecture notes in computer science , vol.8468,pp 616 - 626 , 2014            najgebauer , p. , nowak , t. , romanowski , j. , gabryel , m. , korytkowski , m. , scherer , r. , content - based image retrieval by dictionary of local feature descriptors , proceedings of the international joint conference on neural networks , 2014              rudzki , m. , vessel detection method based on eigenvalues of the hessian matrix and its applicability to airway tree segmentation , in proceedings of the 11th international phd workshop owd , pp 100105 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the liquid argon time projection chamber ( lar - tpc ) detectors provide excellent imaging and particle identification ability for studying neutrinos . </S>",
    "<S> an efficient and automatic reconstruction procedures are required to exploit potential of this imaging technology . </S>",
    "<S> herein , a novel method for segmentation of images from lar - tpc detectors is presented . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed approach computes a feature descriptor for each pixel in the image , which characterizes amplitude distribution in pixel and its neighbourhood . </S>",
    "<S> the supervised classifier is employed to distinguish between pixels representing particle s track and noise . </S>",
    "<S> the classifier is trained and evaluated on the hand - labeled dataset . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed approach can be a preprocessing step for reconstructing algorithms working directly on detector images .    </S>",
    "<S> argon , time projection chambers , image segmentation , pixel classification , feature descriptor </S>"
  ]
}