{
  "article_text": [
    "the search for standard model ( sm ) particles resulting from the annihilation of dark matter particles provides an important complement to that of direct searches for dm interactions and accelerator production experiments . among the theoretical candidates for the dm particle @xcite , weakly interacting massive particles are well motivated since they naturally provide the measured present day cold dm density @xcite .",
    "candidates for wimp dark matter are present in many extensions of the sm of particle physics , such as supersymmetry ( susy ) @xcite or theories with extra dimensions @xcite . in such models ,",
    "the wimps either decay or self - annihilate into standard model particles , most of which produce either a continuum of gamma rays with energies up to the dm particle mass , or mono - energetic gamma - ray lines .",
    "attractive targets for indirect dm searches are nearby massive objects with high inferred dm density which are not expected to be sources of vhe gamma rays .",
    "the galactic center is likely the brightest source of gamma rays resulting from dm annihilations , however the detected vhe gamma - ray emission is coincident with the supermassive black hole sgr a * and a nearby pulsar wind nebula @xcite , motivating searches for dm annihilation in the galactic center halo where the vhe gamma - ray background is expected to be significantly lower @xcite .",
    "galaxy clusters have a large dm content .",
    "however , they are extended for veritas , and the possibility exists of a vhe background from conventional processes , although not yet detected .",
    "galactic dm sub - halos would appear as unidentified objects ( unids ) without multi - wavelength counterparts in fermi - lat data .",
    "if a fermi unid were detected in vhe , it could potentially be from dm .",
    "dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsphs ) are additional attractive targets for dm searches .",
    "dwarf spheroidal galaxies are relatively close ( @xmath050 kpc ) , and have a low rate of active or recent star formation , which suggests a low background from conventional astrophysical vhe processes .",
    "the following sections describe the status of observations and data analysis of each of the dm targets described above as of fall 2014 , followed by conclusions and a discussion of the future of the veritas dm program .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ l2ea4-t1 ]    dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsphs ) best meet the criteria for a clear and unambiguous detection of dark matter .",
    "they are gravitationally - bound objects and contain up to @xmath1 times more mass in dm than in visible matter [ 1 ] . as opposed to the galactic center , globular clusters and clusters of galaxies , dsphs present the clear advantage of being free of any significant astrophysical emission . their high galactic latitude and relative proximity to earth ( @xmath2 kpc ) make them very good targets for high signal - to - noise detection .    between the start of full veritas array operations and summer 2013 , five dsphs",
    "have been observed with veritas : segue 1 , ursa minor ( umi ) , draco , botes 1 , and willman 1 .",
    "the veritas collaboration has previously published a 48 hour exposure on segue 1 @xcite and @xmath015 hour exposures on the other four mentioned here @xcite .",
    "deeper exposures on segue , umi and draco have been taken after these publications . to obtain the lowest possible energy threshold for dm searches , looser cuts optimized @xmath3 on soft spectral vhe sources",
    "were used for the collective data set .",
    "the combination of looser cuts and deeper exposures revealed certain systematic effects in the cosmic - ray ( cr ) background data .",
    "the first is a gradient in the veritas cameras dependent on the zenith angle of observations across the fov .",
    "the second systematic effect results from bright stars in the veritas fov that cause the high voltage to pixels in the cameras to be suppressed . both of these systematic effects have been corrected for and the results are summarized in table 2 .",
    "the ` crescent ' background method which also developed for dsph analysis @xcite was also used for the table 2 results .    the first background",
    "systematic effect , relating to the zenith gradient , was corrected using a zenith - dependent acceptance map .",
    "the standard veritas analysis uses only a radially - dependent acceptance , i.e. the angle between the reconstructed event direction and the array pointing direction . measuring the gradient utilized a map that is the ratio of the number of all reconstructed events in a sky map within a given search radius ( defined as 0.17 degree in this work ) to the ( radial only ) acceptance in that same bin , a parameter we will refer to as @xmath4 in the rest of this work . if the acceptance adequately describes the cr background , then excluding any stars or known vhe sources , it should not correlate with any external parameters .",
    "however , a strong correlation was seen with the mean zenith angle of each reconstructed event position in the skymap bin .",
    "this correlation in the skymap bins is shown in figure 3 .",
    "this gradient is corrected in the data by fitting the correlation with a fourth - degree polynomial and using that to re - weight the acceptance map .",
    "the @xmath5 parameter from li & ma equation 17 is then re - calculated @xcite , .",
    "it should be noted that the difference of the adjusted value of @xmath5 to the non - adjusted value is typically less than 1% .",
    "however , the difference to the @xmath6-ray excess and significance becomes larger over time as statistics accumulate .             from the bright star , merak , in the fov of rgb j1058 + 564 using both the hfit algorithm and the standard hillas shower image characterization .",
    "the veritas data analysis typically excludes regions around bright stars or known vhe sources from cosmic - ray background characterization . the default radius for background exclusion region for merak is also shown as the dashed blue line .",
    "]    the second background systematic effect is due to  holes \" that are seen in the data relating to bright stars in the fov that would trip the high voltage of camera pixels or raise cleaning thresholds due to higher night - sky background levels .",
    "missing pixels would in turn effect both energy and gamma - ray position reconstruction .",
    "a method of using a 2d gaussian likelihood fit to each shower image is utilized here , called _ hfit _ @xcite .",
    "standard veritas analysis uses the moments of the shower images , commonly referred to as hillas parameters . by using the 2d elliptical fitting to each image , missing data from disabled or broken pmts are effectively interpolated around , as are images truncated by the edge of the cameras , as shown in figure 4",
    "this has been shown to reduce both the size and the depth of the holes due to bright stars seen in the data , including but not limited to the b magnitude 3.4 star eta leonis which is located 0.68@xmath7 away from the center of the segue 1 dsph . the effectiveness of hfit on a independent data sample is shown in figure 5 , which shows the apparent surface brightness in the cr background ( which is in reality a deficit for reasons described above ) at a star location in the fov of the blazar rgb j1058 + 564 ( merak , 2.4 b magnitude ) .",
    "work is currently underway to utilize the data for the previously published papers plus additional data for a combined dm physics result .",
    "this result will use the methodology developed by geringer - sameth et al .",
    "@xcite to utilize both the individual energy and event reconstruction information as well as astrophysical ",
    "j factors \" from a generalized nfw profile by geringer- sameth and walker @xcite .",
    "new dm publications from the veritas collaboration are forthcoming : the combined analysis of the dsphs should be publically available within the next six months , which promises to be the most robust result of any dm result in vhe gamma rays so far , while dm results for the galactic center , fermi unids and the archival galaxy cluster search should be ready on longer timescales .",
    "new analysis techniques are being developed by the veritas collaboration which promise large gains to our dm sensitivity , as an example an extended analysis of the dsphs which would incorporate longer tails of the dm density profile , which would in turn give a boost to the j factors by as much as a factor of @xmath02 .",
    "a combined analysis with fermi - lat , or other @xmath6-ray instruments could potentially provide a boost to dm sensitivity .",
    "the veritas collaboration has a historical commitment to substantial dm observations and plans to do so in the foreseeable future .",
    "recently , a new long - term plan for veritas has gone into effect , which has a significant fraction ( 15 - 20% ) of the total dark observation time dedicated to dm observations .",
    "the focus of this long - term plan is dsphs ; however the galactic center , fermi unids and galaxy clusters will not be completely ignored .",
    "if executed consistently over the expected lifetime of veritas , these observations will form the basis of an important and unique contribution to the field of indirect dm detection .",
    "this research is supported by grants from the u.s .",
    "department of energy office of science , the u.s . national science foundation and the smithsonian institution , by nserc in canada , by science foundation ireland ( sfi 10/rfp/ ast2748 ) and by stfc in the u.k .",
    "we acknowledge the excellent work of the technical support staff at the fred lawrence whipple observatory and at the collaborating institutions in the construction and operation of the instrument .",
    "the veritas collaboration is grateful to trevor weekes for his seminal contributions and leadership in the field of vhe gamma - ray astrophysics , which made this study possible .    99 bertone , g. , et al .",
    "2005 , phr , 405 , 279 komatsu , et al .",
    "2011 , apjs , 192 , 18 jungman , g. , et al .",
    "1996 , phr , 267 , 195 servant , g. , et al .",
    "2003 , nuclear physics b , 650 , 391 aharonian , f. , et al .",
    "2006 , phrvl , 97 , 221102 abramowski , a. , et al .",
    "2011 , phrvl , 106 , 161301 pfrommer , c. , & enlin , t.  a. 2004 , a&a , 413 , 17 schlickeiser , r. , et al .",
    "1987 , a&a , 182 , 21 mateo , m.  l. 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435    springel , v. , et al .",
    "2008 , mnras , 391 , 1685 diemand , j. , et al .",
    "2008 , nature , 454 , 735 pieri , l. , et al . , 2008 , mnras , 384 , 1627 kamionkowski , et al . , 2010 , prd , 81 , 043532 nakamura , k. , et al . , 2010 , j.phys.g g37 , 075021 .",
    "buckley , m.  r. , & hooper , d. , 2010 , prd , 82 , 063501 nieto , d. , et al .",
    ", 2011 , 32nd icrc , arxiv:1109.5935    diaferio , a. , et al . , 2008 , ssrv , 134 , 7 arlen , t. , et al . , 2012 , apj , 757 , 123 abramowski , a. , et al . , 2012 ,",
    "apj , 746 , 151 v.  a.  acciari et al . , 2009 , apj 706 , l275 f.  a. aharonian , et al . , 2004 , a&a 425 , l13 . f.  a. aharonian , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "nature , 439 695 .",
    "a. w. smith , et al . ,",
    "these proceedings .",
    "acciari , v.  a. , et al . , 2010 , apj , 720 , 1174 aliu , e. , et al . , 2012 , prd , 85 , 062001 zitzer , b. , et al . , arxiv:1307.8367 li , t .-",
    ", & ma , y .- q . 1983 , apj , 272 , 317 berge , d. , funk , et al . , j. 2007 , a&a , 466 , 1219 christiansen , j. , et al .",
    ", american institute of physics conference series , 1505 , 709 geringer - sameth , a. , et al .",
    ", 2014 , arxiv:1410.2242 geringer - sameth , a. , et al . , 2014 ,"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in the cosmological paradigm , cold dark matter ( dm ) dominates the mass content of the universe and is present at every scale . </S>",
    "<S> candidates for dm include many extensions of the standard model , with a weakly interacting massive particle ( wimp ) in the mass range from @xmath010 gev to greater than 10 tev . </S>",
    "<S> the self - annihilation or decay of wimps in astrophysical regions of high dm density can produce secondary particles including very high energy ( vhe ) gamma rays with energy up to the dm particle mass . </S>",
    "<S> veritas , an array of atmospheric cherenkov telescopes , sensitive to vhe gamma rays in the 85 gev - 30 tev energy range , has been utilized for dm searches . </S>",
    "<S> the possible astrophysical objects considered to be candidates for indirect dm detection are veritas dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsphs ) of the local group and the galactic center , among others . </S>",
    "<S> this presentation reports on our extensive observations of these targets and constraints of the dark matter physics from these objects , including the methodology and preliminary results of a combined dm search of five dsphs . </S>"
  ]
}