{
  "article_text": [
    "nanofluidics refers to the study of the transport of ions and/or molecules in confined solutions as well as fluid flow through or past structures with one or more characteristic nanometer dimensions @xcite .",
    "the dramatic advances in microfluidics in the 1990s and the introduction of nanoscience , nanotechnology and atomic fabrication in recent years have given its own name to nanofluidics @xcite .",
    "nanofluidic systems have been extensively exploited for molecule separation and detection , nanosensing , elucidation of complex fluid behavior and for the discovery of new physical phenomena that are not observed or less influential in macrofluidic or microfluidic systems @xcite .",
    "some of such phenomena include double - layer overlap , ion permitivity , diffusion , ion - current rectification , surface charge effect and entropic forces @xcite .",
    "one major feature of a nanofluidic system is its structural characteristic .",
    "nanofluidic structures can be classified into nanopores and nanochannels and , in fact , these two terms are exchangeable in many cases @xcite .",
    "a nanopore has comparatively short length formed perpendicularly through various materials , such as a bipore consisting of proteins , i.e. , @xmath0-hemolysin and a solid - state pore @xcite .",
    "an example of solid - state pore is a set of nanopores in a silicon nitride membrane which enables the detection of folding behaviors of a single double - stranded dna @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", a nanochannel has relatively larger dimensions of depth and width , usually fabricated in a planar format , and is often equipped with other sophisticated devices to control or influence the transport inside the channel @xcite .",
    "for instance , perry _ et al . _ demonstrates the rectifying effect of a funnel - shape nanochannel based on different movements of counterions at its tip and base @xcite .",
    "a nano - scaled channel usually has either a cylindrical or a conical geometry @xcite . in a cylindrical channel ,",
    "the flow direction does not influence on current , but surface charges and applied external voltage alter the flux of ions with opposite sign charges .",
    "however , the difference in the size of pores in a conical channel brings different ionic conductance patterns depending on the flow direction .",
    "the other major feature of a nanofluidic system is its interactions .",
    "it is the interaction at nanoscale that distinguishes a nanofluidic system from an ordinary fluid system .",
    "certainly , most interactions are directly inherited from the chemical and physical properties of the nanostructure , such as the geometric confinement , steric effect , polarization and charge .",
    "some other interactions are controlled by flow conditions , i.e. , ion composition and concentration , and applied external fields .",
    "therefore , the interactions of a nanofluidic system is determined by its structure and flow conditions .",
    "the function of a nanofluidic system is in turn determined by all the interactions .",
    "usually , most nanofluidic systems do not involve any chemical reactions . in this case",
    ", steric effects , van der waals interactions and electrostatic interactions are pivoting factors .",
    "therefore , in nanofluidic systems , microscopic interactions dominate the flow behavior , while in macroscopic flows and some microfluidics , continuum fluid mechanics governs and microscopic effects are often negligible .",
    "typically , microscopic and macroscopic behaviors co - exist in a microfluidic system .",
    "characteristic length scales , such as reynolds number , biot number and nusselt number , are important to the macroscopic fluid flows . for most nanofluidic systems ,",
    "one of most important characteristic length scales is the debye length @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is the dielectric constant of the solvent , @xmath3 is the permittivity of vacuum , @xmath4 is the boltzmann constant , @xmath5 is the absolute temperature , and @xmath6 and @xmath7 are , respectively , the bulk ion concentration and the charge of ion species @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "the debye length describes the thickness ( or , precisely , @xmath8th reduction ) of electrical double layer ( edl ) .",
    "essentially , ionic fluid behaves like a microscopic flow within the edl region , while acts as a macroscopic flow far beyond the debye length . by the gouy - chapman - stern model , the edl",
    "is divided into three parts : the inner helmholtz plane , outer helmholtz plane and diffuse layer @xcite .",
    "while the inner helmholtz plane consists of non - hydrated coions and counterions that are attached to the channel surface , the outer helmholtz plane contains hydrated or partially hydrated counterions .",
    "moreover , the part between the inner and outer helmholtz planes is called the stern layer .    note",
    "that the edl applies not only to the layer near the nanochannel , but also the layer around a charged biomolecule in the flow .",
    "consequently , many microfluidic devices with quite large channel dimensions exhibit microscopic flow characteristic when the fluid consists of large macromolecules and solvent . the possible deformation , aggregation , folding and unfolding of the macromolecules in the fluidic system",
    "make the fluid flow behavior complex and intriguing @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , for rigid macromolecules , the effective channel dimensions can be estimated by subtracting the macromolecular dimension from the physical dimension of the channel .",
    "the resulting system may be approximated by simple ions for most analysis .",
    "specifically , the charge on the wall surface derives electrostatic interactions and electrokinetic effects when ions in a solution are sufficiently close to channel wall @xcite .",
    "since the surface - to - volume ratio is exceptionally high in a nanoscale channel , surface charges induce a unique electrostatic screening region , i.e. , edl @xcite .",
    "in fact , it attracts ions charged oppositely ( counterions ) and repels ions having the same charge ( coions ) to sustain the electroneutrality of an aqueous solution confined in a channel .",
    "physically , the edl region only contains bound or mobile counterions and typically covers the nano - sized pore of a channel .",
    "therefore , the oppositely charged ions mainly constitute the electrical current through a micro- or nano - channel @xcite .",
    "the rectification of ionic current , which is one of the distinct transport properties of nanofluidic channels , can further elucidate the flow pattern and formation of the fluid through a nanochannel @xcite .",
    "this phenomenon usually occurs when surface charge distribution , applied electric field , bulk concentration and/or channel geometry are properly manipulated along the channel axis @xcite .",
    "conducted experiments to present ion - enrichment and ion - depletion effects on nanochannels to show that the rectification begins with these two effects @xcite . in their design ,",
    "an applied field gave rise to accumulation of all ions at the cathode and absence of all ions at the anode of the channels .",
    "ion selectivity is another important feature which enables nano - sized channels to work as an ionic filter @xcite .",
    "it is defined as the ratio of the difference between currents of cations and anions to the total current delivered by both ions .",
    "vlassiouk and his colleagues examined the ion selectivity of single nanometer channels under various conditions including channel dimension , buffer concentration and applied voltage @xcite .",
    "nanofluidics has been extensively studied in chemistry , physics , biology , material science , and many areas of engineering @xcite .",
    "the primary purpose of most studies is to separate and/or detect biological substances in a complex solution @xcite .",
    "a variety of nanofluidic devices have been produced using extraordinary transport behaviors caused by steric restriction , polarization and electrokinetic principles @xcite .",
    "for instance , a nanofluidic diode is an outstanding tool to take the advantage of the rectifying effect of ionic current through a nanochannel @xcite .",
    "the nanofluidic diodes have been developed to govern the flow inside the channel by breaking the symmetry in channel geometry , surface charge arrangement and bulk concentration under the influence of applied voltage @xcite .",
    "additionally , the design and fabrication of nanofluidics for molecular biology applications is a new interdisciplinary field that makes use of precise control and manipulation of fluids at submicrometer and nanometer scales to study the behavior of molecular and biological systems . because of the microscopic interactions , fluids confined at the nanometer scale can exhibit physical behaviors which are not observed or insignificant in larger scales .",
    "when the characteristic length scale of the fluid coincides with the length scale of the biomolecule and the scale of the debye length , nanofluidic devices can be employed for a variety of interesting basic measurements such as molecular diffusion coefficients @xcite , enzyme reaction rates @xcite , ph values @xcite , and chemical binding affinities @xcite .",
    "micro- and nanofluidic techniques have been instrumented for polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) amplifications @xcite , macromolecule accumulator @xcite , electrokinetics @xcite , biomaterial separation @xcite , membrane protein crystallization @xcite , and micro - scale gas chromatography @xcite .",
    "nanofluidic dynamic arrays have also been devised for high - throughput single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping @xcite .",
    "nanofluidic devices have also been engineered for electronic circuits @xcite , local charge inversion @xcite , and photonic crystal circuits @xcite .",
    "microchannels and micropores have been utilized for cell manipulation , cell separation , and cell patterning @xcite .",
    "efforts are given to accomplish all steps , including separation , detection and characterization , on a single microchip @xcite .",
    "despite of rapid development in nanotechnology , the design and fabrication of nanofluidic systems are essentially empirical at present @xcite . since nanofluidic device prototyping and fabrication are technically challenging and financially expensive , it is desirable to further advance the field by mathematical / theoretical modeling and simulation .",
    "the modeling and simulation of nanofluidic systems are of enormous importance and have been a growing field of research in the past decade .",
    "when the width of a channel is less than 5 nm , the transport analysis requires the discreteness of substances and , in particular , molecular dynamics ( md ) is a useful tool in this respect @xcite .",
    "typically , the md determines the motion of each atom in a system using the newton s classical equations of motion @xcite .",
    "a simplified model is brownian dynamics ( bd ) , in which the solvent water molecules are treated implicitly , so this method costs less computationally than the md and is able to reach the time scale of physical transport @xcite .",
    "the bd describes the motion of each ion under frictional , stochastic and systematic forces by means of langevin equation @xcite .",
    "further reduction in the computational cost leads to the poisson - nernst - planck ( pnp ) theory , which is the most renowned model for charge transport @xcite .",
    "the pnp model describes the solvent water molecule as a dielectric continuum , treats ion species by continuum density distributions and , in principle , retains the discrete atomic detail and/or charge distribution of the channel or pore @xcite .",
    "the performance of the pb model and the pnp model for the streaming current in silica nanofluidic channels was compared @xcite .",
    "the brownian dynamics of ions in the nanopore channel was combined with the continuum pnp model for regions away from the nanopore channel @xcite .",
    "the reader is referred to the literature @xcite for a comprehensive discussion of the pnp theory .",
    "a further simplified model is the lippmann - young equation , which is able to predict the liquid - solid interface contact angle and interface morphology under an external electric field @xcite .",
    "most microfluidic systems involve fluid flow .",
    "if the fluid flow through a microfluidic pore or channel is also a concern in the theoretical modeling , coupled pnp and the navier - stokes ( ns ) equations can be utilized @xcite .",
    "these models are able to provide a more detailed description of the fluid flow away from the microscale pore or channel , i.e. , beyond the debye screening length .    recently",
    ", a variety of differential geometry based multiscale models were introduced for charge transport @xcite .",
    "the differential geometry theory of surface provides a natural means to separate the microscopic domain of biomolecules from the macroscopic domain of solvent so that appropriate physical laws are applied to appropriate domains .",
    "our variational formulation is able to efficiently bridge macro - micro scales and synergically couple macro - micro domains @xcite .",
    "one class of our multiscale models is the combination of laplace - beltrami equation and poisson - kohn - sham equations for proton transport @xcite .",
    "another class of our multiscale models utilizes laplace - beltrami equation and generalized pnp equations for the dynamics and transport of ion channels and transmembrane transportors @xcite .",
    "the other class of our multiscale models alternate the md and continuum elasticity ( ce ) descriptions of the solute molecule , as well as continuum fluid mechanics formulation of the solvent @xcite .",
    "we have proposed the theory of continuum elasticity with atomic rigidity ( cewar ) @xcite to treat the shear modulus as a continuous function of atomic rigidity so that the dynamics complexity of a macromolecular system is separated from its static complexity . as a consequence ,",
    "the time - consuming dynamics is approximated by using the continuum elasticity theory , while the less time - consuming static analysis is carried out with an atomic description .",
    "efficient geometric modeling strategies associated with differential geometry based multiscale models have been developed in both lagrangian eulerian @xcite and eulerian representations @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , in nanofluidic modeling , computation and analysis , there are many standing theoretical and technical problems . for example , nanofluidic processes may induce structural modifications and even chemical reactions @xcite , which are not described in the present nanofluidic simulations . additionally ,",
    "although the pnp model can incorporate atomic charge details in its pore or channel description , which is vital to channel gating and fluid behavior , atomic charge details beyond the coarse description of surface charges are usually neglected in most nanofluidic simulations . moreover , as discussed earlier , stern layer and ion steric effect are significant for the edl , and are not appropriately described in the conventional pnp model .",
    "furthermore , nanofluidic simulations have been hardly performed in 3d realistic settings with physical parameters .",
    "consequently , results can only be used for qualitative ( i.e. , phenomenological ) comparison and not for quantitative prediction . finally , the material interface induced jump conditions in the poisson equation are seldom enforced in nanofluidic simulations with realistic geometries . therefore , it is imperative to address these issues in the current nanofluidic modeling and simulation .",
    "the objective of the present work is to model and analyze realistic nanofluidic channels with atomic charge details and introduce second - order convergent numerical methods for nanofluidic problems .",
    "we present a new variational derivation of the governing pnp type of models without utilizing the differential geometry formalism of solvent - solute interfaces .",
    "as such a domain characteristic function is introduced to represent the given solid - fluid interface .",
    "additionally , we investigate the impact of atomic charge distribution to the fluid behavior of a few 3d nanoscale channels .",
    "we demonstrate that atomic charges give rise specific and efficient control of nanochannel flows .",
    "moreover , we develop a second - order convergent numerical method for solving the pnp equations with complex nanochannel geometry and singular charges . furthermore , the change of the distribution in atomic charge distribution is orchestrated with the variation of applied external voltage and bulk ion concentration to understand nanofluidic currents .",
    "therefore , we are able to elucidate quantitatively the transport phenomena of three types of nano - scaled channels , including a negatively charged channel , a bipolar channel and a double - well channel .",
    "these flow phenomena are analyzed in terms of electrostatic potential profiles , ion concentration distributions and current - voltage characteristics . to ensure computational accuracy and efficiency for nanofluidic systems , we construct a second order convergent method to solve poisson - nernst - planck equations with dielectric interface and singular charge sources in 3d realistic settings .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section [ theory ] is devoted to a new variational derivation of pnp type of models using a domain characteristic function for nanofluidic simulations . in section [ computation ] , we develop a dirichlet to neumann mapping for dealing with charge singularities and the matched and boundary interface ( mib ) method for material interfaces .",
    "these methods are employed to compute the pnp equations with 3d irregular channel geometries and singular charges .",
    "section [ validation ] is devoted to validate the present pnp calculation with synthetic nanoscale channels .",
    "we first test a cylindrical nanochannel with one charged atom at the middle of the channel and then examine the channel with eight atomic charges that are placed around the channel . since pnp equations admit no analytical solution in general , we design analytical solutions for a modified pnp system which has the same mathematical characteristic as the pnp system . in section",
    "[ result ] , we investigate the atomic scale control and regulation of cylindrical nanofluidic systems .",
    "three nanofluidic channels , a negatively charged channel , a bipolar channel and a double - well channel , are studied in terms of electrostatic potential profile , ion concentration distribution and current .",
    "finally , this paper ends with concluding remarks .",
    "unlike the charge and material transport in biomolecular systems , the charge and material transport in nanofluidic systems induces a negligible reconstruction of the solid - fluid interface compared to the system scale .",
    "therefore , instead of using our earlier differential geometric based multiscale models @xcite which allow the modification of the solvent - solute interface , we adopt a fixed solid - fluid interface in the present work . to this end",
    ", we introduce a domain characteristic function in our variation formulation .",
    "let us consider a total computational domain @xmath9 .",
    "we denote @xmath10 and @xmath11 respectively the microscopic channel domain and the solution domain .",
    "interface @xmath12 separates @xmath10 and @xmath11 so that @xmath13 .",
    "we introduce a characteristic function @xmath14 such that @xmath15 and @xmath16 .",
    "obviously , @xmath17 and @xmath18 are the indicators for the channel domain and the solution domain , respectively . unlike the hypersurface function in our earlier differential geometry",
    "based multiscale models , the interface is predetermined in the present model . in the solution domain @xmath11",
    ", we seek a continuum description of solvent and ions . in the channel or pore domain @xmath10",
    ", we consider a discrete atomistic description .",
    "a basic setting of our model can be found in fig .",
    "[ schematic ] .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     finally , we consider a double - well nanofluidic channel which is named after the shape of the electrostatic potential curve .",
    "the electrostatic potential through the channel axis in a cylindrical channel may have several potential wells by modifying atomic charge distribution .",
    "in fact , one of the most well - known biological channels , gramicidin a channel , has a double - well transmembrane ion channel @xcite . in this section",
    ", we design a cylindrical channel whose electrostatic potential curve has a double - well structure by varying the sign of atomic charges . as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ dw_channel ] , the middle section of the nanochannel is positively charged , but the other parts of the channel are negatively charged .",
    "m ( square ) , @xmath19 m ( triangle ) , @xmath20 m ( diamond ) , and @xmath21 m ( circle ) . with a high bulk ion concentration ,",
    "the total current gets increased and the i - v characteristics becomes linear . ]      at first , we alter the applied voltage , but fix bulk ion concentration at @xmath19 m and the atomic charge distribution as described in fig .  [ dw_channel ] . here ,",
    "@xmath22 is set to be 0v and @xmath23 is increased gradually from @xmath24v to @xmath25v .",
    "figure  [ dw_pot ] presents the electrostatic potential and ionic concentration along the channel length . on the left hand side of the inner channel ,",
    "the electrostatic potential becomes higher , which results in moderating the left potential well as in fig .",
    "[ dw_pot](a ) .",
    "subsequently , the positive ion concentration shows a dramatic change on the left hand side .",
    "moreover , the small change in the potential at the right hand side of the channel corresponds to the small change in the concentration profile on the right .      as in fig .",
    "[ dw_concen ] , the increase in the total current through the double - well channel is derived from the increase in the bulk ion concentration . herein , the external voltage difference is the same ( @xmath26v ) . like the negatively charged channel",
    ", the i - v relation becomes linear as the bulk ion concentration gets multiplied .",
    "these results are consistent with those observed from both numerical simulations @xcite and experimental measurements @xcite of the gramicidin a channel .",
    "therefore , atomic design of 3d nanofluidic channels proposed in the present work can be used to study biological channels , which is particularly valuable when the structure is not available .",
    "recently the dynamics and transport of nanofluidic channels have received great attention . as a result ,",
    "related experimental techniques and theoretical methods have been substantially promoted in the past two decades @xcite .",
    "nanofluidic channels are utilized for a vast variety of scientific and engineering applications , including separation , detection , analysis and synthesis of chemicals and biomolecules .",
    "additionally , inorganic nanochannels are manufactured to imitate biological channels which is of great significance in elucidating ion selectivity and ion current controllability in response to an applied field in membrane channels @xcite .",
    "molecular and atomic mechanisms are the key ingredients in the design and fabrication of nanofluidic channels .",
    "however , atomic details are scarcely considered in nanofluidic modeling and simulation . moreover ,",
    "previous simulation of transport in nanofluidic channels has been rarely carried out with three - dimensional ( 3d ) realistic physical geometry .",
    "present work introduces atomistic design and simulation of 3d realistic ionic diffusive nanofluidic channels .",
    "we first proposes a variational multiscale paradigm to facilitate the microscopic atomistic description of ionic diffusive nanochannels , including atomic charges , and the macroscopic continuum treatment of the solvent and mobile ions .",
    "the interactions between the solution and the nanochannel are modeled by non - electrostatic interactions , which are accounted by van der waals type of potentials .",
    "a total energy functional is utilized to put macroscopic and microscopic representations on an equal footing .",
    "the euler - lagrange variation leads to generalized poisson - nernst - planck ( pnp ) equations . unlike the hypersurface in our earlier differential geometry based multiscale models @xcite ,",
    "the solid - fluid interface is treated as a given profile .",
    "a domain characteristic function is introduced to replace the hypersurface function in our earlier formulation .",
    "efficient and accurate numerical methods have been developed to solve the proposed generalized pnp equations for nanofluidic modeling .",
    "both the dirichlet - neumann mapping and matched interface and boundary ( mib ) methods employed to solve the pnp system in 3d material interface and charge singularity .",
    "rigorous numerical validations are constructed to confirm the second - order convergence in solving the generalized pnp equations .",
    "the proposed mathematical model and numerical methods are employed for 3d realistic simulations of ionic diffusive nanofluidic systems .",
    "three distinct nanofluidic channels , namely , a negatively charged nanochannel , a bipolar nanochannel and a double - well nanochannel , are constructed to explore the capability and impact of atomic charges near the channel interface on the channel fluid flow .",
    "we design a cylindrical nanofluidic channel of 49   in length and 10   in diameter .",
    "several charged atoms of about 1.8 angstrom apart are equally located outside the channel to regulate nanofluidic patterns . for the negatively charged channel ,",
    "all of the atoms have the negative sign ; on the other hand , for the bipolar channel , half of them has the negative sign and the other half has the positive sign .",
    "a double - well channel has positively charged atoms at the middle and negatively charged atoms on the remaining part of the channel .",
    "each end of the channel is connected to a reservoir of kcl solution and both reservoirs have the same bulk ion concentration .",
    "asymmetry in the applied electrostatic potentials at the ends of two reservoirs gives rise to current through these nanochannels .",
    "we perform numerical experiments to explore electrostatic potential , ion concentration and current through the channels under the influence of applied voltage , atomic charge and bulk ion concentration .",
    "the negatively charged channel generates a unipolar current because the negative atomic charge attracts counterions , but repels coions . the current within the nanochannel increases when",
    "external voltage , magnitude of atomic charge and/or bulk ion concentration are increased",
    ". however , the bulk ion concentration has a limitation in its growth because a larger bulk ion concentration shortens debye length and thus the charged channel may behave like an uncharged one showing the ohm s law .",
    "the bipolar channel can create accumulation or depletion of both ions in response to the current direction .",
    "when the right end has a higher voltage , both ions are stored at the junction of the channel length . on the contrary ,",
    "when the left end has a higher voltage , both ions are moved away from the junction .",
    "applied voltage , atomic charge and bulk ion concentration affect the amplitude and gradient of the current - voltage characteristic .",
    "at last , the special atomic charge distribution of the double - well channel produces the electrostatic potential profile with two potential wells . increasing applied voltage at the left hand side of the system results in an obvious change in the left potential well and the k@xmath27 concentration on the left .",
    "the present study concludes that the properties and quantity of the current though an ionic diffusive nanochannel can be effectively manipulated by carefully altering applied voltage , atomic charge and bulk ion concentration .",
    "our results compare well with those of experimental measurements and theoretical analysis in the literature .",
    "since the physical size of model is close to realistic transmembrane channels , the present model can be utilized not only for ionic diffusive nanofluidic design and simulations , but also for the prediction of membrane channel properties when the structure of the channel protein is not available or changed due to the mutation .",
    "non - electrostatic interactions , are considered in our theoretical modeling but are omitted in the present numerical simulations to focus on atomistic design and simulation of 3d realistic ion diffusive nanofluidic channels . however",
    ", non - electrostatic interactions can be a vital effect in nanofluidic systems .",
    "a systematical analysis of non - electrostatic interactions is under our consideration .",
    "this work was supported in part by nsf grants iis-1302285 and dms-1160352 , and nih grant r01gm-090208 .",
    "the authors thank an anonymous reviewer for useful suggestions .",
    "d.  branton , d.  w. deamer , a.  marziali , h.  bayley , s.  a. benner , t.  butler , m.  di  ventra , s.  garaj , a.  hibbs , x.  huang , et  al .",
    "the potential and challenges of nanopore sequencing . , 26(10):11461153 , 2008 .",
    "d.  d. busath , c.  d. thulin , r.  w. hendershot , l.  r. phillips , p.  maughan , c.  d. cole , n.  c. bingham , s.  morrison , l.  c. baird , r.  j. hendershot , m.  cotten , and t.  a. cross .",
    "noncontact dipole effects on channel permeation .",
    "i. experiments with ( 5f - indole)trp@xmath28 gramicidin a channels . , 75:28302844 , 1998 .",
    "b.  y. kim , j.  yang , m.  j. gong , b.  r. flachsbart , m.  a. shannon , p.  w. bohn , and j.  v. sweedler .",
    "multidimensional separation of chiral amino acid mixtures in a multilayered three - dimensional hybrid microfluidic / nanofluidic device .",
    ", 81:27152722 , 2009 .",
    "m.  g. kurnikova , r.  d. coalson , p.  graf , and a.  nitzan .",
    "a lattice relaxation algorithm for three - dimensional poisson - nernst - planck theory with application to ion transport through the gramicidin a channel .",
    ", 76:642656 , 1999 .",
    "j.  wang , m.  lin , a.  crenshaw , a.  hutchinson , b.  hicks , m.  yeager , s.  berndt , w.  y. huang , r.  b. hayes , s.  j. chanock , r.  c. jones , and r.  ramakrishnan .",
    "high - throughput single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping using nanofluidic dynamic arrays . , 10(561 ) , 2009 .",
    "y.  wang , k.  pant , z.  j. chen , g.  r. wang , w.  f. diffey , p.  ashley , and s.  sundaram .",
    "numerical analysis of electrokinetic transport in micro - nanofluidic interconnect preconcentrator in hydrodynamic flow .",
    ", 7:683696 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent advance in nanotechnology has led to rapid advances in nanofluidics , which has been established as a reliable means for a wide variety of applications , including molecular separation , detection , crystallization and biosynthesis . </S>",
    "<S> although atomic and molecular level consideration is a key ingredient in experimental design and fabrication of nanfluidic systems , atomic and molecular modeling of nanofluidics is rare and most simulations at nanoscale are restricted to one- or two - dimensions in the literature , to our best knowledge . </S>",
    "<S> the present work introduces atomic scale design and three - dimensional ( 3d ) simulation of ionic diffusive nanofluidic systems . </S>",
    "<S> we propose a variational multiscale framework to represent the nanochannel in discrete atomic and/or molecular detail while describe the ionic solution by continuum . </S>",
    "<S> apart from the major electrostatic and entropic effects , the non - electrostatic interactions between the channel and solution , and among solvent molecules are accounted in our modeling . </S>",
    "<S> we derive generalized poisson - nernst - planck ( pnp ) equations for nanofluidic systems . </S>",
    "<S> mathematical algorithms , such as dirichlet to neumann mapping and the matched interface and boundary ( mib ) methods are developed to rigorously solve the aforementioned equations to the second - order accuracy in 3d realistic settings . </S>",
    "<S> three ionic diffusive nanofluidic systems , including a negatively charged nanochannel , a bipolar nanochannel and a double - well nanochannel are designed to investigate the impact of atomic charges to channel current , density distribution and electrostatic potential . </S>",
    "<S> numerical findings , such as gating , ion depletion and inversion , are in good agreements with those from experimental measurements and numerical simulations in the literature .    channel design , atomic design , charge gating , unipolar channel , bipolar channel , double - well channel . </S>"
  ]
}