{
  "article_text": [
    "since the original identification of interacting supernovae ( sne ; @xcite ; @xcite ) and the creation of the sn iin class @xcite , the sample of such peculiar type ii sne has grown from a few to a few tens of events .",
    "it has also revealed an intriguing diversity , spanning a range of luminosities , duration , line profile morphology , with events like sne 1988z @xcite , 1994w @xcite , 2006gy @xcite , and the enigmatic sn2009ip @xcite .",
    "the origin of type iin sne is associated with the interaction of fast material with previously - expelled slowly - expanding material @xcite .",
    "the resulting shock leads to deceleration of the inner shell , acceleration of the outer shell , and conversion of kinetic energy into internal and radiative energy . because ( standard ) non - interacting sne radiate merely 1% of their total energy ( the rest being kinetic ) , interacting sne can easily reach extraordinary luminosities by tapping this abundant reservoir of kinetic energy .",
    "for example , an interaction extracting 30% of a  ejecta could produce a sn iin with a luminosity of 10@xmath4  for 3 months .",
    "super luminous interacting sne require both a high kinetic energy in the inner shell and a large mass reservoir in the outer shell ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "two good examples of such sne iin are sn2006gy @xcite and more recently sn2010jl @xcite .",
    "the latter has extensive photometric and spectroscopic observations @xcite and also has spectropolarimetric data @xcite . how stars produce the outer shell is unclear  it may be material ejected by the pair - production instability @xcite or it may be material ejected via a super - eddington wind @xcite . here , we simply consider the interaction between a fast moving inner shell and a slowly - moving massive outer shell , and leave aside speculations concerning their origin .",
    "numerical simulations of interacting sne are generally undertaken with radiation hydrodynamics @xcite , hydrodynamics combined with a parameterised cooling function @xcite , or pure hydrodynamics ( by assuming adiabaticity ; see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "when studying super - luminous sne iin , radiation hydrodynamics with a non - grey ( multi - group ) treatment is a must because the radiation contribution is a sizeable fraction of the pressure / energy in the problem , the characteristic temperatures of the radiation and of the gas may differ strongly , and the emerging radiation provides essential signatures characterising the event .",
    "the radiative transfer modelling for sne iin comes at present in two flavours .",
    "it is either based on the results of radiation hydrodynamics simulations but limited to a single line , e.g. , h@xmath5 @xcite , or based on an ad - hoc atmospheric structure and the assumption of steady - state radiation through a diffusive optically thick inner boundary @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we discuss numerical simulations for super - luminous sne of type iin , including studies with radiation hydrodynamics , radiative transfer , and polarised radiative transfer codes . in section  [ sect_her ] , we first present the multi - group 1-d eulerian radiation hydrodynamics simulations we perform with , including the numerical approach , the standard interaction configuration we adopt as initial conditions , and the results for both the dynamics and the radiation .",
    "we then present in section  [ sect_cmfgen ] non - lte radiative - transfer simulations with , which we compute for a number of snapshots using the results from the radiation - hydrodynamical modelling .",
    "we discuss line profile broadening , and the relative roles of expansion and electron scattering . in section  [ sect_pol ] , we present polarisation calculations based on these  simulations but artificially distorted along an axis of symmetry , in order to produce prolate density configurations .",
    "we assess the level of asymmetry needed to explain the observed continuum polarisation ( and line depolarisation ) reported for sn2010jl . in section  [ sect_dep ] , we discuss the dependency of our results on the interaction properties , varying the kinetic energy of the inner shell and the mass / extent of the circumstellar medium ( csm ) .",
    "finally , in section  [ sect_conc ] , we present our conclusions .",
    "is a eulerian multi - dimensional radiation - hydrodynamics code @xcite , with the possibility for multi - group radiation transport @xcite .",
    "the hydrodynamics is treated using a standard second order godunov scheme . for the radiation transfer , conduction , flux limited diffusion ( fld ) and the m1 moment model @xcite",
    "are implemented in , the latter two with the possibility of using a multi - group approach .",
    "apart from a comparison test that uses a grey treatment , the simulations presented in this paper are all done using the multi - group m1 moment model . as explained below",
    ", a multi - group treatment is necessary in order to take into account the large opacity variations with frequency and the strong imbalance between radiation and gas temperature .",
    "the m1 model has also some strong benefit compared to the more standard fld approach .",
    "first of all the m1 model is exact in both the diffusion and the free - streaming limit and is rather accurate in between .",
    "it is therefore well suited to model regions with low or intermediate optical depth .",
    "furthermore , the m1 method solves explicitly for both the energy and the flux through moments of the radiative transfer equations .",
    "the m1 model can distinguish between absorption / emission and scattering opacities .",
    "the effect of scattering in regions where the scattering opacity is dominant can then be taken into account .",
    "finally , the radiative transfer is formulated in the co - moving frame and as is shown in @xcite the doppler and aberrations effects are properly accounted for , which is important when large velocity gradients are present .",
    "we use the multi - group solver because grey radiation transport , often used for simulations of non - interacting type ii sne , is inadequate in sne iin . in non - interacting type ii sne ,",
    "the radiation and the gas have similar temperatures everywhere ( even identical at large optical depths ) , so that adopting the rosseland mean opacity , for example , is not a bad representation of the effective opacity of the material .",
    "in contrast , the radiation produced from the interaction in sne iin has a characteristic temperature that can vastly differ from the medium that it traverses , and the total continuum optical depth is not much in excess of about ten . in the next section ,",
    "we illustrate the impact on the light curve produced by assuming a grey rather than an energy - dependent lte opacity for the material .",
    "in this work , we adopt a uniform composition , with a h mass fraction of 0.633 , he mass fraction of 0.36564 , and an iron mass fraction of 0.00136 to reflect approximately the near - solar composition of a blue or a red supergiant ( hereafter bsg / rsg ) star ( for sn2010jl , @xcite ) argue for a sub - solar metallicity , which may be important for understanding how these sne iin come about , but is irrelevant for the present radiation - hydrodynamics considerations ) .",
    "we supply the code with an opacity table for our adopted composition .",
    "we compute our opacities as a function of density , temperature and energy group .",
    "energy groups are positioned at strategic locations to capture the strong variation in absorptive opacity with wavelength .",
    "we use one group for the entire lyman continuum ( including the x - ray range ) , two groups for the balmer continuum , two for the paschen continuum , and three groups for the brackett continuum and beyond .",
    "our opacity code computes the lte level populations and ionisation state of the gas , and then uses the atomic data available within  to compute lte opacities and to make the opacity table .",
    "the domain covered is 10@xmath6 to 10@xmath7g@xmath8 in 200 bins , and from 2000 to 500,000k in 500 bins  we use the nearest edge for requests outside the table boundaries . here ,",
    "we consider the contribution from electron scattering and bound - free opacity for h , he- , and fe- .",
    "a major limitation of our work is that we ignore line opacity and emissivity in our  simulations .",
    "metal line blanketing ( in particular from fe ) would enhance the opacity in the uv ( inhibiting further the escape of uv photons ) .",
    "we also neglect cooling due to cno elements , which requires a non - lte study with specific allowance for enhanced photon escape due to the velocity field .",
    "inclusion of these effects is left to a future study .    in fig .",
    "[ fig_chi ] , we plot the photon mean free path and its inverse ( i.e. , the opacity ) against wavelength for different processes at different densities and temperatures . in super - luminous sne iin the spectrum formation region is typically optically thick in the lyman continuum ( and at x - ray wavelengths ) and high - energy photons will tend to thermalise , even at low electron - scattering optical depth .",
    "longward of the lyman continuum , electron scattering opacity typically dominates over absorptive opacities and so low - energy photons will thermalise inefficiently at most times and locations .",
    "the simulations in this work use an ideal gas equation of state with @xmath9 .",
    "we also adopt a mean atomic weight of 1.38 in all simulations . in practice",
    ", this value depends on the ionisation state of the gas , but in ways that need to be determined by using a general equation of state  this is left to a forthcoming study .",
    "our simulations are 1-d and use a uniform radial grid with 1600 points , covering from 0.05 to 2@xmath210@xmath3 cm .",
    "degrading the resolution by a factor of four produces the same overall properties ( e.g. , the bolometric maximum is changed by @xmath010% ) , although the shock is less resolved and more numerical diffusion occurs as the interaction region crosses grid zones in the course of the simulation .",
    "this has a visible impact on the properties of the forward and reverse shocks and the associated temperature jumps , but it does not influence significantly the energy solved for by . very high resolution simulations that yielded better resolution of the shock structure gave , for example , similar results for the properties of the csm , the shock propagation speed , and the emergent luminosity .",
    "the initial configuration for the interaction is determined analytically .",
    "we prescribe a density and a temperature structure for the inner shell ( tagged as the sn ejecta , but the results apply to any ejected shell with similar properties ) and the outer shell ( we assume the csm arises from pre - sn mass loss in the form of a wind ) .",
    "we adopt a structure for the sn ejecta which is based on the simulations of core - collapse sne we perform @xcite , in practice comparable to the formulation of @xcite and @xcite . in the present paper",
    ", we are only interested in studying the basic properties of super - luminous sne iin and thus focus on one event ( i.e. , sn2010jl ) , for which we are guided by the parameters of @xcite , who argue for a sn explosion leading to interaction with a dense and extended csm .",
    "we do not include any unstable nuclei in the simulation and thus ignore any contribution from radioactive decay .    for our standard interaction model , named x",
    ", we take a 9.8  inner ejecta ( in homologous expansion ) with .",
    "its density structure is given by a power law in radius with exponent @xmath108 outside of @xmath113000  and constant within it .",
    "its temperature structure is given by a power law in density with exponent @xmath120.4 , rising from 2000k at the ejecta / csm interface radius located at @xmath13 ( we enforce a maximum temperature of 65000k in the inner ejecta ) .",
    "the sn ejecta is 11.6d old when the interaction starts . for the outer shell , which starts at @xmath1410@xmath1 cm",
    ", we adopt a wind structure with a constant velocity of 100  ( and constant temperature of 2000k ) , but split that space into two regions of distinct density . below 10@xmath3 cm",
    ", we prescribe a mass loss rate of 0.1 , and beyond that radius we use a mass loss rate of 10@xmath15  ( i.e. , two orders of magnitude smaller ) .",
    "the motivation for this is three fold .",
    "first , the csm mass should not be unrealistically large . by truncating the high mass loss region",
    ", we can control the total csm mass for any chosen mass loss .",
    "second , the phase of high mass loss in massive stars like @xmath16 car lasts for a period of the order of ten years , not for centuries . with our choice of outer radius and wind speed",
    ", the high mass loss phase has a duration of @xmath028yr .",
    "third , the transition to a lower density outer region will facilitate a reduction in the luminosity at later times , as observed in sn2010jl past 300d ( see below , and @xcite ) .",
    "for convenience , we interpolate the density at the junction between the two shells in order to smooth the profile and avoid an overly abrupt change in luminosity when the shock reaches this region .",
    "the inner edge of the outer shell has a kinematic age of 3.2yr .",
    "the csm has a total mass of 2.89  and a total kinetic energy of 5.2@xmath210@xmath17erg .    to summarise , for the sn ejecta ( @xmath18 ) , we adopt : @xmath19 the proportionality constants @xmath20 and @xmath21 are adjusted so that the total sn ejecta mass and kinetic energy match the desired values ( see table  [ tab_mod_sample ] ) . for the csm ( @xmath22 ) , we adopt : @xmath23 where @xmath24 for @xmath2510@xmath3 cm and @xmath26 for @xmath2710@xmath3 cm .    the initial conditions for model x are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig_init ] . to explore some dependencies of our results",
    ", we vary these ejecta / csm conditions and discuss the implications in section  [ sect_dep ] ( see also table  [ tab_mod_sample ] ) .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     we give a summary of the  model properties in table  [ tab_mod_cmfgen ] .",
    "the  bolometric luminosity agrees with the  value to within 5 - 25% at early times ( i.e. prior to @xmath0200d ) , which is noteworthy since the two codes differ vastly in the treatment of the radiative transfer ( m1 method using eight energy groups versus a two - moment solver using 10@xmath28 energy groups ) and of the thermodynamic state of the gas ( lte versus non - lte )  past 200d , the bolometric luminosity predicted by the two codes differs sizeably ( about a factor of 2 ) , probably because non - lte effects are stronger ( the cds is no longer embedded within the optically thick csm ) .",
    "a mismatch is expected during the first 1 - 2 months because light - travel time effects are ignored in the computation of the flux in  ( the time dependence of the model is implicitly taken into account since we fix the temperature , but no explicit time dependence is accounted for when computing the flux in the formal solution of the radiative transfer equation in ) .",
    "this matters when the properties of the interaction vary on a short time scale ( i.e. , comparable to the free - flight time of @xmath08d to the outer boundary , where the luminosity is recorded ) .",
    "the slow evolution of the sed reflects the slowly varying shock luminosity ( which arises from the smooth variation in both the ejecta density / velocity profile and from the slowly varying csm density for a wind configuration ) , leading to a decrease in radiation / gas temperature in the optically thick regions of the csm .",
    "consequently , the electron scattering wings weaken as the ionisation level and the electron scattering optical depth decrease ( this is caused by the shrinking of the spectrum formation region , which is bounded by the fixed photosphere and the outward moving dense shell or shock ) . for about 200d after the onset of the interaction , the spectrum formation process is essentially unchanged in this simulation .",
    "it is customary in the community to compare the sed with a blackbody . at each epoch",
    ", we fit the  sed flux ratio between 4800 and 8000   to infer @xmath29  we use an iterative procedure to find the temperature for which the model and the blackbody have between these two wavelengths the same flux ratio to within one part in 10000 ) .",
    "we determine the corresponding blackbody radius @xmath30 by matching the blackbody to the model luminosity @xmath31 at @xmath32 ( i.e. , through @xmath33 ) .",
    "the total blackbody luminosity  is then @xmath34 .",
    "an example is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig_comp_bb ] .",
    "although the match is excellent in the fitted range , the sed is not a blackbody .",
    "we find non - planckian effects here associated with dilution due to electron scattering ( causing @xmath35 ; see , e.g. , @xcite ) , and flux excess rather than blanketing in the uv ( as if multiple blackbody emitters with different temperatures were contributing ) .",
    "we show the optical depth for electron scattering , selected continuum wavelengths , as well as selected lines in fig .",
    "[ fig_tau ] .",
    "it is evident that thermalisation is complete for uv photons in this model , but photons redder than the lyman edge poorly thermalise , even at an early epoch of 41.7d after the onset of interaction .",
    "for these , electron scattering is the main source of opacity .",
    "the blackbody radius underestimates the radius of the cds at all times , although the bulk of the sn flux arises from outside the cds .",
    "overall , the radiation field in this sn configuration is not well described by the planck distribution .",
    "these considerations are confirmed by fig .",
    "[ fig_j_and_b ] , which illustrates how much smaller the mean intensity is compared to the planck function , except at the location of lines .",
    "furthermore , in our reference model , the bulk of the flux arises at all times from layers where the electron scattering optical depth is never greater than 10 , and more typically a few only ( see also fig .  [ fig_snap ] ) .    the shallow density structure , the wavelength - dependent opacities , and the strong albedo , lead to a very spatially extended spectrum formation region .",
    "for example , the emission / absorption of h@xmath5 photons occurs throughout the grid , with the exception of the outermost regions of the csm where the density is very low . at early times observed line photons primarily originate at larger radii because line photons emitted deeper suffer more scatterings , and hence have a greater probability of being absorbed .",
    "line photons that could accrue very large frequency shifts by multiple scattering with thermal electrons tend to be absorbed before they can escape . in our reference model , we find that the bulk of h@xmath5 photons arise from regions with an electron scattering optical depth of a few , giving rise to emission in line wings extending to @xmath03000  from line centre , and characterised by a profile with a fwhm of @xmath01500 .",
    "this is somewhat similar to values in sn2010jl @xcite at early epochs .",
    "however at later times the profiles in sn2010jl are broader and blue shifted .",
    "we also see this effect at late times , with the extra emission associated with the cds ( fig .",
    "[ fig_spec_halpha ] ) .",
    "the blueshift of the broad h@xmath5 line is caused by an optical depth effect that affects all sne @xcite . at early times , the peak blueshift is not seen because the h@xmath5 photons emitted from the cds are unable to escape  they undergo numerous electron scatterings and are eventually destroyed by a continuum absorption .",
    "all these properties are illustrated in figs .",
    "[ fig_dfr_d20][fig_dfr_d208 ] .    as found in earlier studies ( e.g. , @xcite )",
    "the adopted turbulent velocity also affects the strength of the electron scattering wings .",
    "this occurs since a larger turbulent velocity increases the sobolev length , and hence leads to an increased probability that a line photon scattering within the sobolev resonance zone will experience an electron scattering interaction , which , because of the large doppler shift , will cause it to be shifted out of resonance allowing it to escape .",
    "the dense shell that forms in the interaction is rayleigh - taylor unstable and should be simulated in 3-d  this is left for future work . there is , however , observational evidence from spectropolarimetric observations that some sne iin are asymmetric on large scale @xcite .",
    "this we try to address in this section by performing 2-d polarisation calculations .",
    "we post - process the  simulation for model x at 41.7d by computing linear polarisation profiles in the same fashion as described in @xcite .",
    "we break spherical symmetry by enforcing a latitudinal variation in density ( thus preserving axial symmetry ) . in practice , we use @xmath36 , where @xmath37 , and @xmath38 is the colatitude .",
    "the magnitude of the asymmetry is controlled through the parameter @xmath39 , which we vary from 0.1 , to 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.8 , and 1.6 .",
    "the resulting axially symmetric ejecta has therefore a prolate morphology , with pole - to - equator density ratios ( at a given radius ) of 1.1 , 1.2 , 1.4 , 1.8 , and 2.6 .",
    "this adopted type of asymmetry is chosen for its simplicity  other choices might also yield similar continuum and line polarisations .",
    "we show the flux in the h@xmath5 line and in the overlapping continuum in fig .",
    "[ fig_pol ] for an observer along a line - of - sight perpendicular to the axis of symmetry . along this direction",
    ", the continuum polarisation has its maximum value , reaching about 1.6% for @xmath401.6 . as we progress towards the h@xmath5 rest wavelength from continuum regions ( i.e. , @xmath413000from line centre ) , the polarisation decreases steadily , as observed in sn2010jl @xcite and in some wolf - rayet stars @xcite . in our simulation , this reduced polarisation across the line is a signature of the distinct formation of the continuum and the line .",
    "because of the lower optical depth , continuum photon arise from a much greater electron - scattering optical depth than do h@xmath5 line photons ( fig .  [ fig_tau ] ) .",
    "furthermore , line photons emitted in a recombination process start off with zero polarisation , and therefore can only accumulate a lower polarisation through a reduced number of scatterings before escape .",
    "this depolarisation is maximum within 100  of line centre since over this spectral range , one sees photons that underwent essentially no scattering with free electrons ( photons scattered by free electrons receive a wavelength - shift and , statistically , end up somewhere in the wings ; see discussion in @xcite ) . in this context ,",
    "whatever the imposed deformation on the ejecta , the polarisation at line centre is zero .",
    "surprisingly the polarisation is parallel to the major axis ( i.e. , positive ; see top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_pol ] )  this property is , naively , not expected since scattering of the light from a point source by an optically thin prolate spheroid has the polarisation at right angles to the major axis @xcite . in our convention",
    "( and that of @xcite ) , the polarisation is positive when it is parallel to the axis of symmetry ( for further details , see section  2 of @xcite ) .",
    "the reason for this behaviour in the current simulation is that the csm is optically thick , and the observed ( and hence scattered ) flux predominantly escapes from equatorial regions , where the densities are lowest ( fig  [ fig_pol_map ] ) .",
    "the correspondence between our simulations and the morphology of the polarised and of the total fluxes of sn2010jl suggests first that our model for super - luminous sne iin like 2010jl is adequate .",
    "secondly , the observed polarisation implies that the ionised csm causing the polarisation is significantly asymmetric . if axially symmetric , a pole to equator density ratio of @xmath03 could explain the observed continuum polarisation .",
    "while the csm is asymmetric , it is however unclear whether the inner shell is also asymmetric  it does not need to be .",
    "multi - dimensional radiation hydrodynamics simulations are needed to model the spatial properties of the shocked csm ( for example , in the current context , the shock strength should also be latitude dependent , causing variations in temperature , ionisation , velocities etc with angle ) , so that we can better characterise the nature of the asymmetry at the origin of the observed polarisation in sne iin like 2010jl .",
    "varying the properties of either the csm mass or the explosion energy can affect the emergent radiation .",
    "this has been discussed in the past for the bolometric luminosity or the colours ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) . here , we repeat such explorations to investigate the impact on spectral signatures as well .      taking model x as a reference",
    ", we produce models in which the sn ejecta kinetic energy is scaled by a factor of 3 ( xe3 ) or 10 ( xe10 ) .",
    "we produce models in which the csm density is scaled by a factor of 3 ( xm3 ) or 6 ( xm6 ) .",
    "we also consider combinations of both , with models xe3m6 or xe10m6 .",
    "finally , we consider model xe3m6r , where the high - density csm extends to 1.5@xmath210@xmath3 cm rather than 10@xmath3 cm only .",
    "table  [ tab_mod_sample ] summarises these model properties .",
    "these alterations produce a considerable diversity of bolometric light curves ( fig .",
    "[ fig_lc_dep ] ) , in directions that are well understood .",
    "increasing the kinetic energy causes a much greater shock luminosity at all times , but since the csm structure is not changed , the diffusion time through the csm is unchanged ( the time to maximum is decreased by just a few days for higher sn ejecta kinetic energy ) .",
    "the bolometric light curves shift upward for increasing energy .",
    "the mean radiation - energy density in the csm also increases with shock luminosity , which raises the radiation temperature .",
    "colours are thus strongly affected , getting bluer for higher energy ( see below and table  [ tab_mod_sample ] where we give the bolometric correction and the colour @xmath42 at bolometric maximum ) .    varying the csm mass ( corresponding in our approach to a change in mass loss rate ) modulates the impedance of the  interaction engine \" . for larger csm density and total mass ,",
    "more kinetic energy is extracted from the sn ejecta .",
    "this energy is converted primarily into radiation .",
    "consequently , varying the csm mass affects the light curve properties .",
    "higher csm mass implies higher csm optical depth and a longer diffusion time , hence a delayed time of peak .",
    "a larger csm mass buffer implies more kinetic energy is tapped so the bolometric maximum is more luminous . in the model set x , xm3 , xm6 ,",
    "the total energy radiated is 0.32 , 0.49 , and 0.63@xmath2  ( for the same ejecta kinetic energy of ) , so , the conversion efficiency can be considerably enhanced when the csm mass exceeds significantly the sn ejecta mass , with values here as high as @xmath070% ( models xe3m6 , xe10m6 , or xm6 ) .",
    "combinations of higher csm mass and higher ejecta kinetic energy ( e.g. , model xe3m6 ) ) shift the reference model ( quite suitable to sn2010jl ) to the domain where sn2006gy lies @xcite , with peak luminosities of the order of a few 10@xmath43ergs@xmath44 sustained for 2 - 3 months and a peak time that occurs later ( @xmath02 months after the onset of the interaction ) .",
    "finally , extending the region of high density in the csm from 10@xmath3 to 1.5@xmath210@xmath3 cm ( models xe3m6r versus model xe3m6 ) leads to a sustained high luminosity beyond 300d .",
    "in fact , all the light curves in fig  [ fig_lc_dep ] show a break after 150 - 300d , except for model xe3m6r .",
    "this light curve break in our simulations is associated with the shock ( or the cds ) reaching the outer edge of the denser parts of the csm ( the shock in model xe3m6r has not yet reached 1.5@xmath210@xmath3 cm at the last time shown in fig .  [ fig_lc_dep ] ) and starting to encounter lower density material ( see table  [ tab_mod_sample ] for details ) .",
    "the pre - acceleration of the csm by the radiation from the shock depends on the adopted configuration . in model",
    "x , we obtained a modest enhancement in csm velocity from 100 to 200 .",
    "this pre - acceleration is stronger when we use a larger ejecta kinetic energy ( stronger shock , higher luminosity ) or if the csm density is increased ( there is a delicate balance to get here since a higher csm density means a higher opacity and thus more radiation momentum extracted but it also implies more inertia )  see fig .",
    "[ fig_evol_vel_dep ] .",
    "the diversity in bolometric light curves discussed in the preceding section is also strongly present in the spectra at maximum light ( fig .",
    "[ fig_spec_dep ] ) . for the highest energy explosion",
    ", the shift in temperature in the ionised csm leads to a major rise in ionisation for hydrogen and helium , producing very blue and nearly featureless spectra ( whatever blanketing from fe occurs in the uv and far - uv ) . for models with enhanced csm mass ,",
    "the temperature / ionisation conditions are comparable to reference model x , but the line fluxes are increased .",
    "the higher the csm mass , the redder the colour at peak .",
    "interestingly , in models with very high csm mass , although the balmer line fluxes are much higher , the extent of the electron scattering wings does not increase beyond a maximum of @xmath03000 .",
    "the likely reason is that line photons do not just scatter off free electrons in the csm  there is a non - zero probability that they are absorbed in a bound - free or free - free process leading to photon destruction .",
    "the broader and blue shifted lines seen at late times require that we see photons blue shifted by expansion .",
    "for the present case , the broader blue - shifted component seen at late times arises from the cds .",
    "we see a blue - shift since the cds absorbs emission from the far side of the shell .",
    "thus the h@xmath5 blueshift seen in sn2010jl @xcite might simply just stem from an optical - depth effect , without any dust intervening in the process . as the optical depth of the shell declines , we expect the profile to become more symmetric .",
    "in this work , we have presented numerical simulations for interacting sne in which both the kinetic energy of the explosively - produced inner shell and the mass of the wind - produced outer shell are very large .",
    "we used an inner shell kinetic energy of  or more , and a csm mass of at least 3 .",
    "these simulations correspond to possible configurations for super - luminous sne iin .",
    "our contribution is novel because we post - process our multi - group radiation - hydrodynamics simulations with radiative transfer tools , to compute non - lte spectra and polarisation signatures . with this more global approach",
    ", we can study the numerous features that make super - luminous sne iin unique .",
    "we find that the light curve of a super - luminous sn iin is composed of several distinct phases .",
    "initially , the cold csm is neutral and transparent to optical photons .",
    "as the interaction starts , the radiation from the shock drives an ionisation front through the csm and makes it optically thick at all wavelengths .",
    "this first phase takes about a week after the onset of the interaction , which corresponds roughly to the light crossing time through the shell . at the time we record the first emerging photons from the sn iin ,",
    "the csm is therefore already optically thick . in our reference model , the photosphere",
    "is then located at @xmath07@xmath210@xmath1 cm and will remain at that radius for months .",
    "the second phase corresponds to the shock crossing of the optically thick csm . in our reference model , this phases lasts @xmath41200d . over this duration",
    ", the shock is located below the photosphere , at an electron - scattering optical depth of about 15 initially .",
    "radiation from the shock is thus continuously released deep in the csm and comes out on a diffusion time scale .",
    "this context is analogous to optically thick ejecta influenced by radioactive decay , although the shock energy is not all channeled into radiation energy . here",
    ", the shock luminosity decreases with time because of the decreasing shock strength as more and more csm is being swept up .",
    "although the csm hardly expands , the diffusion time scale and the optical depth decrease because of the expansion of the interaction region .",
    "we thus obtain a bell shape morphology for the light curve around maximum .",
    "this variation is not associated by the migration of the photospheric radius , but by the variation in shock luminosity , radiation temperature , and csm / photospheric temperature .",
    "optical depth effects on the light curve persist for as long as the shock is located below the @xmath07@xmath210@xmath1 cm .",
    "the third phase starts when the shock overtakes this location .",
    "the photosphere then follows the dense shell .",
    "our multi - group radiation hydrodynamics simulation produces the basic light curve morphology of type iin super - luminous sne .",
    "our reference model was tuned to roughly match the inferred properties of sn2010jl @xcite , but other simulations with different inner - shell kinetic energy and csm mass encompass a variety of light curves , including extreme events like sn2006gy @xcite .",
    "we illustrate the importance of performing _ multi - group _ radiation hydrodynamics .",
    "by contrast , _ grey _",
    "( i.e. , one - group ) radiation hydrodynamics simulations do not account adequately for the opacity of the material and produce a discrepant sn iin light curve morphology .",
    "our simulations confirm the earlier work of @xcite that the shell shocked model of @xcite is not physically sound .",
    "the reason is that in interacting sne , even a massive csm can not have a continuum optical depth greater than a few tens . because such csm are by nature extended , the shock - crossing time far exceeds the time it takes the shock luminosity to diffuse through the optically thick layers .",
    "the situation is analogous to shock emergence in an exploding star , except that here the configuration is quasi steady state  it persists for as long as there is optically - thick csm material ahead of the shock .",
    "our results , which are in agreement with the independent simulations of @xcite , provide a simple and physically consistent explanation for the light curves of type iin super - luminous sne .",
    "overall , the shell - shocked model really belongs to the domain of ( successful ) core - collapse sne in which a radiation - dominated shock crosses a stellar envelope whose optical depth is huge everywhere apart from the surface .",
    "the non - lte radiative transfer simulations , based on the radiation hydrodynamics simulations , produce spectra that are initially blue and redden progressively as the csm / photosphere cools down after bolometric maximum .",
    "we obtain symmetric emission profiles , broadened by non - coherent scattering with free electrons ( of thermal origin ) , with wings that extend up to 3000  from line centre , and together with a narrower p - cygni profile ( @xmath45100 ) forming in the outer cold csm .",
    "varying the ejecta kinetic energy or the csm mass alters the shock luminosity , the mean radiation energy in the optically thick csm , and causes clear variations in colour and ionisation . varying the csm density by a factor of 6 changes the strength of recombination lines but does not produce broader lines at bolometric maximum , despite the enhanced electron - scattering optical depth .",
    "photons emitted at an optical depth @xmath46 perform @xmath47 scatterings before escaping .",
    "if the albedo is 99% , photons coming from @xmath4810 are likely absorbed within the ionised csm and photons do not obtain arbitrarily large frequency shifts from line centre .",
    "broader electron scattering wings may arise for a greater albedo .",
    "our simulations indicate that photon absorption is probably efficient only in the lyman continuum . at low photon frequencies ,",
    "absorptive processes are weak and therefore photon absorption occurs only if the total optical depth at the site of emission is large ( say above 10 )  in our reference simulation with a mass loss rate of 0.1 for the csm , the maximum csm continuum @xmath46 is only 15 .",
    "early on , the optical depth in the cds is high enough to ensure complete thermalisation .",
    "then , line broadening is probably dominated by non - coherent scattering with thermal electrons . however , at later times , thermalisation does not occur at all depths in the csm . in the reference model ,",
    "this is associated with an increased broadening and blueward asymmetry of line profiles with time .",
    "these features are also present in the observations of sn2010jl ( e.g. , h@xmath5 ; fig .",
    "[ fig_spec_halpha ] )  this suggests a growing contribution from doppler broadening , connected with photon emission from the fast expanding cds .",
    "we believe this hybrid line formation is at the origin of the very large h@xmath5 line width in sn2010jl , as well as the blueshift of its peak emission .",
    "interestingly , the modest peak luminosities and the absence of broad lines at all times in events like sn1994w @xcite or sn2011ht @xcite are perplexing because the emission from the cds should be seen once the csm becomes transparent .    to complement our radiation hydrodynamics simulations with  and our non - lte radiative transfer simulations with , which assume spherical symmetry",
    ", we present some polarisation simulations for aspherical but axially symmetric configurations . our results for a prolate morphology with a pole - to - equator density ratio of @xmath03 yield a maximum @xmath492% continuum polarisation compatible with the value observed for sn2010jl @xcite . in this context",
    ", the asymmetry may stem only from the csm , although both inner and outer shells may be asymmetric . in future work , we will extend the  simulations to 2-d to study large scale asymmetries and to 3-d to study the stability of the dense shell .",
    "we thank ralph sutherland and claes fransson for discussion and comments , and nando patat for providing the spectropolarimetric data for sn2010jl published in @xcite .",
    "dessart acknowledges financial support from the european community through an international re - integration grant , under grant number pirg04-ga-2008 - 239184 , and from  agence nationale de la recherche \" grant anr-2011-blanc - simi - bs56 - 0007 .",
    "hillier acknowledges support from stsci theory grant hst - ar-12640.01 , and nasa theory grant nnx10ac80 g .",
    "this material is based upon work partially supported by the national science foundation under grant number ast-1311993 .",
    "hillier would also like to acknowledge the hospitality and support of the distinguished visitor program at the research school of astronomy and astrophysics ( rsaa ) at the australian national university ( anu ) .",
    "this work was also supported in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "phys-1066293 and benefited from the hospitality of the aspen center for physics .",
    "this work was granted access to the hpc resources of cines under the allocations c2013046608 and c2014046608 made by genci ( grand equipement national de calcul intensif ) .",
    "this work also utilised computing resources of the msocentre sigamm , hosted by the observatoire de la cte dazur , nice , france .      ,",
    "j.  p. , dessart , l. , gutierrez , c.  p. , hamuy , m. , morrell , n.  i. , phillips , m. , folatelli , g. , stritzinger , m.  d. , freedman , w.  l. , gonzlez - gaitn , s. , mccarthy , p. , suntzeff , n. , & thomas - osip , j. 2014 , , 441 , 671                                              , c. , ergon , m. , challis , p.  j. , chevalier , r.  a. , france , k. , kirshner , r.  p. , marion , g.  h. , milisavljevic , d. , smith , n. , bufano , f. , friedman , a.  s. , kangas , t. , larsson , j. , mattila , s. , benetti , s. , chornock , r. , czekala , i. , soderberg , a. , & sollerman , j. 2014 , , 797 , 118                        , r. , milisavljevic , d. , soderberg , a.  m. , chornock , r. , zauderer , b.  a. , murase , k. , guidorzi , c. , sanders , n.  e. , kuin , p. , fransson , c. , levesque , e.  m. , chandra , p. , berger , e. , bianco , f.  b. , brown , p.  j. , challis , p. , chatzopoulos , e. , cheung , c.  c. , choi , c. , chomiuk , l. , chugai , n. , contreras , c. , drout , m.  r. , fesen , r. , foley , r.  j. , fong , w. , friedman , a.  s. , gall , c. , gehrels , n. , hjorth , j. , hsiao , e. , kirshner , r. , i m , m. , leloudas , g. , lunnan , r. , marion , g.  h. , martin , j. , morrell , n. , neugent , k.  f. , omodei , n. , phillips , m.  m. , rest , a. , silverman , j.  m. , strader , j. , stritzinger , m.  d. , szalai , t. , utterback , n.  b. , vinko , j. , wheeler , j.  c. , arnett , d. , campana , s. , chevalier , r. , ginsburg , a. , kamble , a. , roming , p.  w.  a. , pritchard , t. , & stringfellow , g. 2014 , , 780 , 21            , e.  o. , zoglauer , a. , boggs , s.  e. , barrire , n.  m. , reynolds , s.  p. , fryer , c.  l. , harrison , f.  a. , cenko , s.  b. , kulkarni , s.  r. , gal - yam , a. , arcavi , i. , bellm , e. , bloom , j.  s. , christensen , f. , craig , w.  w. , even , w. , filippenko , a.  v. , grefenstette , b. , hailey , c.  j. , laher , r. , madsen , k. , nakar , e. , nugent , p.  e. , stern , d. , sullivan , m. , surace , j. , & zhang , w.  w. 2014 , , 781 , 42        , a. , cappellaro , e. , inserra , c. , smartt , s.  j. , pignata , g. , benetti , s. , valenti , s. , fraser , m. , takts , k. , benitez , s. , botticella , m.  t. , brimacombe , j. , bufano , f. , cellier - holzem , f. , costado , m.  t. , cupani , g. , curtis , i. , elias - rosa , n. , ergon , m. , fynbo , j.  p.  u. , hambsch , f .- j .",
    ", hamuy , m. , harutyunyan , a. , ivarson , k.  m. , kankare , e. , martin , j.  c. , kotak , r. , lacluyze , a.  p. , maguire , k. , mattila , s. , maza , j. , mccrum , m. , miluzio , m. , norgaard - nielsen , h.  u. , nysewander , m.  c. , ochner , p. , pan , y .- c . ,",
    "pumo , m.  l. , reichart , d.  e. , tan , t.  g. , taubenberger , s. , tomasella , l. , turatto , m. , & wright , d. 2013 , , 767 , 1                                      , t. , wang , x. , wu , c. , chen , j. , chen , j. , liu , q. , huang , f. , liang , j. , zhao , x. , lin , l. , wang , m. , dennefeld , m. , zhang , j. , zhai , m. , wu , h. , fan , z. , zou , h. , zhou , x. , & ma , j. 2012 , , 144 , 131"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present numerical simulations that include 1-d eulerian multi - group radiation - hydrodynamics , 1-d non - local - thermodynamic - equilibrium ( non - lte ) radiative transfer , and 2-d polarised radiative transfer for super - luminous interacting supernovae ( sne ) . </S>",
    "<S> our reference model is a @xmath010  inner shell with  ramming into a @xmath03  cold outer shell ( the circumstellar - medium , or csm ) that extends from 10@xmath1 to 2@xmath210@xmath3 cm and moves at 100 . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the light curve evolution , which can not be captured adequately with a grey approach . in these interactions , </S>",
    "<S> the shock - crossing time through the optically - thick csm is much longer than the photon diffusion time . </S>",
    "<S> radiation is thus continuously leaking from the shock through the csm , in disagreement with the shell - shocked model that is often invoked . </S>",
    "<S> our spectra redden with time , with a peak distribution in the near - uv during the first month gradually shifting to the optical range over the following year . </S>",
    "<S> initially balmer lines exhibit a narrow line core and the broad line wings that are characteristic of electron scattering in the sne iin atmospheres ( csm ) . at later times </S>",
    "<S> they also exhibit a broad blue shifted component which arises from the cold dense shell . </S>",
    "<S> our model results are broadly consistent with the bolometric light curve and spectral evolution observed for sn2010jl . invoking a prolate pole - to - equator density ratio in the csm , we can also reproduce the @xmath02% continuum polarisation , and line depolarisation , observed in sn2010jl . by varying the inner shell kinetic energy and </S>",
    "<S> the mass and extent of the outer shell , a large range of peak luminosities and durations , broadly compatible with super - luminous sne iin like 2010jl or 2006gy , can be produced .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    radiative transfer  radiation hydrodynamics  polarisation  supernovae : general  supernovae : individual : 2010jl </S>"
  ]
}