{
  "article_text": [
    "uranus reached equinox on 7 december 2007 , for the first time in 42 years , and for the first time ever when modern high resolution instruments were capable of detailed characterization of the event .",
    "uranus appearance in hst and keck imagery at near - ir wavelengths revealed a richer treasure - trove of atmospheric information than the bland close - up voyager imaging in 1986 .",
    "recent pre - equinox observations recorded a surprising level of activity , unusual cloud dynamics , and a hemispherical asymmetry in cloud bands , discrete cloud structure , and atmospheric motions . a wide range of discrete cloud lifetimes was discovered , ranging from less than an hour to possibly decades , and a north - south asymmetry in the zonal wind was characterized @xcite .",
    "a recent dramatic event was the rise and fall of uranus brightest cloud feature , which peaked in 2005 , and faded dramatically thereafter @xcite . a large and very long lived storm system ( s34 )",
    "was discovered @xcite .",
    "some evidence suggests that it existed as early as the 1986 voyager encounter , but there is little doubt that it existed from at least 2000 through at least 2005 , during which time it slowly oscillated in latitude between 32s and 36s and exhibited a superimposed inertial oscillation with a period near 0.7 days . in 2004",
    "it suddenly became visible in k@xmath0 images @xcite , indicating an increased cloud altitude .",
    "cycle 15 hst observations in 2006 captured the first dark spot in uranus northern hemisphere @xcite .",
    "this roughly elliptical spot is similar to several dark spots observed on neptune , even exhibiting what appears to be a bright companion cloud in a pre - discovery image .",
    "new ground - based images we obtained from the keck telescope in 2007 ( beginning on 7 june and extending through 9 september ) provide a new abundance of discrete cloud features that we use to gain a better understanding of uranus atmospheric dynamics .",
    "we also obtained imagery from the hubble space telescope wide field planetary camera 2 in july and august of 2007 . here",
    "we discuss cloud morphologies , motions , and evolution , and include in the analysis results from voyager and prior hst observations .",
    "we extend the zonal wind observations up to 73n , and further establish the north - south asymmetry of uranus zonal circulation .",
    "we were able to determine highly accurate drift rates for 28 cloud features by tracking them over long time periods , and find little change in the measured circulation between 1986 and 2007 .",
    "our primary data are keck and hst observations obtained during 2007 .",
    "we also made use of a limited number of hst archival images from 2004 - 2006 .      using the nirc2 camera on the keck ii telescope , suitable atmospheric observations of uranus were obtained on dates given in table [ tbl : keckobs ] , where we also list basic observing conditions and pis for each observing run .",
    "the ring - plane crossing was on 16 august , when bad weather severely limited observations from the keck telescope .",
    "most of our images were made with broadband j , h , and k@xmath0 filters using the nirc2 narrow camera .",
    "a few were made with narrow - band filters for better discrimination of vertical structure .",
    "after geometric correction , the angular scale of the nirc2 narrow - angle camera is 0.009942@xmath1/pixel ( nirc2 general specifications web page : http://alamoana.keck.hawaii.edu/inst/nirc2/ ) .",
    "this provides 350 ( june ) to 369 ( september ) pixels across the planet .",
    "typical resolution in the keck ii ao images of uranus was 0.06@xmath1 , providing 58 - 61 resolution elements across the disk .",
    "the penetration depth of these observations into the atmosphere of uranus is indicated in fig .",
    "[ fig : specpendepth ] . only particles extending to pressures less than 1 bar can be seen in k@xmath0 images of uranus , while j and h images can see to the 10-bar level in a clear atmosphere .",
    "the main variations visible in j and h bands appear to occur in the 2 - 5 bar region @xcite , well below the expected methane condensation level near 1.2 bars .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,>,>,^,^ , < \" , ]     [ tbl : fits ]      in fig .",
    "[ fig : ucomp ] we compare our fit profiles to prior wind observations of @xcite using voyager images , radio occultation results of @xcite , 1997 hst results by @xcite , and results by @xcite that were derived from a combination of 1998 hst nicmos images and 2000 hst wfpc2 and keck images .",
    "we also include high - accuracy and binned results of @xcite , shown as small black dots , and new results based on 2003 observations by @xcite , shown as purple diamonds .",
    "we remeasured these latter observations to correct for a small navigation error that shifted the latitude scale by @xmath21.5 .",
    "the solid curves shown in this figure are the same fits given in fig .",
    "[ fig : legfit ] .",
    "most of the data displayed here are reasonably consistent with the zonal profile determined from our 2007 observations .",
    "besides a few deviant points near 27 - 30n , which are plausibly related to companion cloud features , the most significantly deviant points are those of @xcite . at latitudes between 25s and 40n , the @xcite observations are @xmath210 m / s less westward than the trend followed by most of the other observations , while they are in much closer agreement elsewhere .    )",
    ". see text for discussion.,width=340 ]    there is remarkably little difference between the 1986 voyager results and the more recent extensive observations in 2003 - 4 and in 2007 .",
    "perhaps the close agreement of 2003 - 4 and 2007 results should not be too surprising because of the relatively short time interval in comparison to uranus rather long radiative time constants @xcite .",
    "it is much more surprising that there is such close agreement with the voyager results , which were obtained 21 years prior to the 2007 equinox , and close to the midpoint between the last two equinoxes .",
    "if the asymmetry we see at the time of the 2007 equinox is at a peak , which might be expected if it is a long - delayed response to seasonal solar forcing , then the voyager results might be expected to be half - way between the current asymmetry and its reversal ( shown as the dotted curves in fig .",
    "[ fig : ucomp ] ) . even though the asymmetry in the zonal circulation is small , the voyager results are clearly not halfway between the current and reversed states .",
    "they are instead in very good agreement with the current drift rate observations , suggesting that the asymmetry in the zonal circulation may be a permanent one . although there is no known physical basis for such a permanent asymmetry , it can not be ruled out , especially given the substantial and non - seasonally reversing asymmetries in the circulations of jupiter and saturn .",
    "@xcite tracked seven cloud features in near - ir hst nicmos images captured during july and october 1997 , and noted that during the entire time span he found no evidence for appearance or disappearance of any of features .",
    "@xcite and @xcite showed that not all uranus cloud features share this persistence .",
    "however , @xcite did find seven long - lived cloud features during the 2003 - 2004 time period , most with estimated lifetimes longer than a month , one longer than a year , and one that appeared to persist for a decade or longer .",
    "we also found long - lived features in our 2007 data .      among the 28 cloud features stable enough to track over more than a single rotation of uranus ,",
    "seven were tracked for more than 1000 hours , one of which was tracked for more than 2250 hours .",
    "the latter feature ( labeled 60707 in fig .  [ fig:2x3jul27 ] ) is a relatively subtle brightening at the edge of the southern bright band , best seen in the high - pass filtered image for 27 july .",
    "it can also be seen near the central meridian in the 31 july image in fig.[fig:2x3jul30 ] , and near the right limb in fig.[fig:2x2sep7 ] . a plot of longitude and latitude vs. time ( fig .",
    "[ fig:60707 ] ) indicates both short - term and long - term variability in the position of the feature .",
    "most of the short - term variability is due to the fuzzy longitudinally extended nature of the feature , which creates uncertainty in defining its exact location in longitude .",
    "the long - term variations may be due to wave motion .",
    "although the existence of a stable oscillation can not be confirmed due to sampling limitations , the deviations from a constant longitudinal drift are consistent with a modulation amplitude ( 0 to peak ) of @xmath23and a period of @xmath283 days .",
    "that period is much shorter than the period of @xmath21000 days found for the large feature near 34s @xcite or the periods of 448 or 753 days suggested for the brightest ever uranus cloud feature found at 30n @xcite .",
    "if the longitude oscillation is attributed to a small latitudinal oscillation and an associated variation in drift rate due to the latitudinal gradient in the zonal atmospheric flow , then the amplitude of the latitudinal oscillation would be only @xmath20.08 , and thus not observable .",
    "( equations relating latitudinal and longitudinal oscillations are given in sec.[osc30 ] . )",
    "3 and a period of @xmath22000 hours ( 83 days).,width=340 ]      the next longest tracking interval ( 1751 h ) was achieved for the target labeled 60720 ( visible in figs . 2 - 4 ) .",
    "this is part of a complex of features near 30n that probably persists for much longer periods than any individual element and is likely related to an especially prominent bright spot near 30n latitude , which in august 2005 became the brightest cloud feature ever observed on uranus .",
    "that feature was also found to exhibit two superimposed oscillations , a slow 445-day oscillation in longitude relative to its mean drift rate and a rapid 0.7-day inertial oscillation @xcite . a similar feature ( possibly the same feature in a different state of activity ) , was seen in 2007 . a sequence of images of this feature , shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:30nstrips ] , suggests that the bright feature is possibly a companion to a dark feature .",
    "other bright companions seem to be present as well , with varying relative locations and brightness values . in two cases , in the bottom row and 2nd from the top row in fig .",
    "[ fig:30nstrips ] , the brightest feature in the h image is different from the brightest feature in the k@xmath0 image , which is a more sensitive indicator of cloud altitude .",
    "temporal variations in altitude are also present as indicated by varying relative brightness in k@xmath0 images .",
    "images ( right ) .",
    "the map display following the first is offset by the mean drift rate of target 60720 ( -0.3202e / h ) times the time difference relative to the first image .",
    "all projections were enhanced to the same i / f range to show the apparent brightness changes , as well as changes in feature location .",
    "the h images were logarithmically enhanced to better show dim and bright features with the same enhancement .",
    "the grey bars at the top indicate the i / f range displayed in the images .",
    "vertical variations of the feature components are indicated by varying ratios of k@xmath0 to h. , title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]   images ( right ) .",
    "the map display following the first is offset by the mean drift rate of target 60720 ( -0.3202e / h ) times the time difference relative to the first image .",
    "all projections were enhanced to the same i / f range to show the apparent brightness changes , as well as changes in feature location .",
    "the h images were logarithmically enhanced to better show dim and bright features with the same enhancement .",
    "the grey bars at the top indicate the i / f range displayed in the images .",
    "vertical variations of the feature components are indicated by varying ratios of k@xmath0 to h. , title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]    this northern complex appears to be related to the first dark spot discovered on uranus . while neptune is famous for its great dark spots , until recently there had been no comparable feature observed on uranus . the first such uranus dark spot , discovered with hst in 2006 @xcite and shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : darkspot ] , exhibited a surprisingly large contrast in the red and was faintly visible in keck near - ir images in 2006 .",
    "a compact dark feature was also observed on 7 june 2007 in keck images ( also in fig.[fig : darkspot ] ) , along with bright companion clouds much like those observed for neptune s great dark spot in 1989 ( right column of fig .",
    "[ fig : darkspot ] ) . both hst and keck features",
    "are of similar size , about 9 - 10 in longitude and about 3.5 in latitude , and at similar latitudes of 25 - 26n .",
    "the keck feature in 2007 is just south of 60720 in fig .",
    "[ fig:2x3jul27 ] and is also visible in fig .",
    "[ fig:30nstrips ] .          the possibly oscillatory behavior of the bright / dark complex is illustrated in fig .  [ fig : bs30nfits ] , which displays longitude and latitude observations for three bright cloud features associated with the 30n complex .",
    "tracking the motion of the group of features is complicated by substantial changes in morphology .",
    "the most stable of the various elements is the feature labeled 60720 .",
    "this feature exhibits a clear variation in latitude during july 26 - 31 , which is accompanied by a variation in longitude relative to its mean drift longitude .",
    "the best fit constant drift longitude is indicated by the solid black curve in the top panel , which becomes a horizontal line in the relative longitude plot in the middle panel .",
    "these two sets of variations are consistent with a simple model in which the latitude of the feature oscillates in time and acquires a drift rate that matches the zonal wind profile as it moves in latitude . for small oscillations",
    "we can assume a linear gradient in the zonal wind profile .",
    "following @xcite , except starting with the latitude modulation , we obtain the coupled equations @xmath3 where , @xmath4 is latitude , @xmath5 is the amplitude of the latitudinal oscillation , @xmath6 is the period , @xmath7 is the time reference , @xmath8 is the time delay of the oscillation , @xmath9 denotes longitude , @xmath10 is the gradient of the zonal wind drift ( longitude change per unit time ) with respect to latitude , evaluated at the reference latitude @xmath11 , @xmath12 is the zonal drift rate at the midpoint of the oscillation , and @xmath13 is the initial longitude . because the drift rate may be controlled by a circulation feature at a slightly different latitude than the observed feature , and because we do nt really know the zonal wind itself with sufficient accuracy , @xmath12 is determined independently rather than just evaluating the zonal wind profile at @xmath11 .",
    "350 hours and a zero - to - peak latitude amplitude of @xmath20.6 .",
    "the orange curves are displaced copies of the blue curves , for comparison with 72606 measurements .",
    "the fits for 81905 ( red ) indicate behavioral changes between 19 august and 7 september ( see text).,width=340 ]    the blue oscillatory curves in fig .",
    "[ fig : bs30nfits ] , which fit the observed longitude and latitude variations of cloud 60720 reasonably well , use the model defined by eqs .",
    "[ eq : couple1 ] and [ eq : couple2 ] with parameter values @xmath11",
    "= 30.2n , @xmath14 , @xmath15 h , @xmath7=1415 h , @xmath161.0 , @xmath17/h , assuming the value of d@xmath0 = -2.392/day / lat given by @xcite , where here longitudes are positive eastward .",
    "the derived value of @xmath12 is just 0.002/h more than the drift rate obtained for a constant drift model .",
    "the gold curves , which are just offset versions of the blue curves , provide a reasonable fit to the variations of cloud target 72606 , which is offset from 60720 by 3.8 in latitude and 4.3 in longitude .",
    "these two features appear to move at the same drift rate , even though widely separated in latitude , suggesting that they are both companions to a circulation feature , such as a dark vortex , which control both their motions .",
    "the oscillation period of 350 h is very different from those determined for the 30n feature in 2005 , which had a rapid oscillation at an inertial period of 0.68 days and a slow oscillation at a period most likely near 450 days , but possibly longer @xcite , although the latitude amplitude was comparable ( 0.6 - 0.7 ) .",
    "it should be noted that the best evidence for an oscillation is near 1200 hours ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : bs30nfits ] ) , where the samples are relatively closely spaced and the feature morphology is relatively consistent , though even there the coverage is only a small fraction of a cycle .",
    "the large difference in the morphology of the feature complex between 7 june 2007 and 26 july 2007 make the linkage between early and late observations uncertain .",
    "thus we can not confirm the existence of a stable oscillation , although it does provide a plausible possible explanation for the observed deviations in longitude and latitude .",
    "an especially odd result is the uncertain fate of the complex between 20 august 2007 and 7 - 9 september 2007 .",
    "the most consistent feature ( 60720 ) does not appear anywhere near the predicted location in the september images . the feature identified as 81905 , which is about 4.5s of 60720",
    ", provides the most likely match to the only feature seen anywhere near the predicted location .",
    "however , with this assignment the inferred drift rate ( see red points and linear drift line in fig .  [",
    "fig : bs30nfits ] ) is very different from what characterized the bs30n complex at prior times .",
    "thus it may be the case that the vortex generating the complex of bright cloud features changed dramatically between 20 august and 7 september , perhaps dissipating or perhaps increasing its rate of latitudinal drift . given the long lifetime of this feature , and the past evidence of great variations in the brightness of its companion features , it seems more likely that it may be just going through a change in vertical structure that temporarily reduces its production of companion clouds , as was inferred for the rapid ( 4-day ) disappearance of a bright component of a southern feature in 2004 @xcite .      between 1998 and 2004",
    "what we are now calling the berg was the one clearly prominent and persistent feature near 34s planetocentric latitude , which oscillated in latitude between 36s and 32s with a period of @xmath21000 days @xcite .",
    "this feature , which is feature a in the results of @xcite , has long consisted of two components separated by about 2of latitude .",
    "the northernmost component is generally an elongated streak , covering from 10to 20of longitude prior to 2005 @xcite , but more recently as much as 40(fig .",
    "[ fig : berg ] ) . a feature morphologically similar to the 1998 - 2004 feature , and in the same latitude range was found in 1994 and in 1986 voyager observations , suggesting a lifetime of nearly two decades .",
    "it was thus quite surprising to see major changes in the behavior of this feature between 2004 and 2007 , during which it began drifting northward at about 2of latitude per year ( fig .",
    "[ fig : berglat ] ) and underwent large morphological changes ( fig .",
    "[ fig : berg ] ) .",
    "images ( right ) .",
    "the central longitudes are adjusted to put the small bright spot south of the broad streak at the center of each projection .",
    "the actual latitudes and longitudes of the feature are written in the lower right hand corner of image image . to display temporal changes in brightness ,",
    "projections were similarly enhanced to cover the same i / f range.,title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]   images ( right ) .",
    "the central longitudes are adjusted to put the small bright spot south of the broad streak at the center of each projection .",
    "the actual latitudes and longitudes of the feature are written in the lower right hand corner of image image . to display temporal changes in brightness ,",
    "projections were similarly enhanced to cover the same i / f range.,title=\"fig:\",width=153 ]    the southern component of the berg usually took the form of a single small roughly circular bright spot ( 72708 in fig.[fig:2x3jul27 ] ) , at least up to 30 july 2007 .",
    "this is the feature that @xcite found to brighten significantly in 2004 k@xmath0 images .",
    "however , on 8 august 2007 three small southern components were seen ( 80811 , 80815 , and 72708 , in fig.[fig:2x3aug8 ] ) , and on 20 august 2007 , only two were seen ( 80811 and 72708 in fig .  [ fig:2x3aug19 ] ) .",
    "note that several small bright spots visible in the top two h images of fig .",
    "[ fig : berg ] ( left column ) extended high enough in altitude to become visible in k@xmath0 images ( right column ) , which is very unusual for a southern cloud feature . in fact , the sudden vertical development of the berg in 2004 @xcite may be dynamically related to the berg s subsequent northward drift . whether the northward drift is the beginning of an equatorial drift and subsequent dissipation , as presumably occurred ( but was unseen ) for neptune s great dark spot , or whether it will continue to exist in a new dynamical regime can only be answered with continued observations .",
    "the berg might also be an analog to neptune s second dark spot ( ds2 ) . during the voyager encounter that feature",
    "was observed to oscillate @xmath182.4 in latitude and @xmath1847 in longitude with a 36-day period @xcite .",
    "the oscillation of ds2 was never explained , nor was its absence in any subsequent images of neptune .",
    "perhaps it stopped oscillating and began an equatorial drift that ultimately resulted in dissipation .",
    "thus , its fate might be better understood from a more detailed history of the uranus berg .",
    "the motion of the berg in 2007 is complicated to define because its component elements undergo such dramatic morphological changes .",
    "each component can only be tracked for a small fraction of the total lifetime of the complex .",
    "targets that were part of the complex included , 72708 , 72712 , 82007 , 80811 , and 80815 .",
    "the most prominent of these was 72708 , a small well - localized bright feature a few degrees south of the main streak feature .",
    "it was tracked from 27 july 2007 to 20 august 2007 , and can be seen in the left column of images in fig .",
    "[ fig:2x3aug8 ] , including the k@xmath0 image , which indicates that it reached unusually high altitudes for a southern hemisphere cloud feature . two other features ( 80811 and 80815 ) also appear in this image , and can also be seen , though with low contrast , in the k@xmath0 image . another prominent feature ( 72712 )",
    "is a brighter and thicker region within the elongated streak , visible in fig.[fig:2x3jul27 ] .",
    "this feature is not well localized in longitude but is well localized in latitude .",
    "observations of 72708 , 72712 , and 80811 are plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : bergdrift ] .",
    "these yield very accurate drift rates , but do nt all agree with each other within their expected uncertainties .",
    "this is not too surprising , given the possibility of companion clouds forming in the vicinity of the generating vortex , but not always at a stable location .",
    "although 72708 and 72712 differ in drift rates by 0.0153/h over the 300 hours during which they were both observed , that only results in relative longitudinal shift of 4.6 , which is a small fraction of the @xmath230extent of the berg complex .",
    "the mean latitudes of 72712 ( 23.72s pg ) and 80811 ( 27.17s pg ) differ by 3.45and would thus have a differential drift rate of 1.38/h , implying a separation by more than 400of longitude over the 300 hours , if they had moved with the mean zonal flow at their respective latitudes .",
    "this assumes that the zonal flow does not actually have a nearly zero latitudinal gradient at the latitude of the feature . however , the gradient we infer is mainly based on features at nearby latitudes , not at exactly the same latitudes .",
    "unfortunately , there is so much uncertainty in the drift rate of other features at the same latitude , that one can not reach a definitive conclusion regarding the true zonal wind gradients at the berg latitude .",
    "there seems to be no clear latitudinal drift or oscillation during the 43 days of tracking of berg features in 2007 .",
    "some components do move in latitude , but the overall behavior suggests a slight maximum in mid august of 2007 .",
    "however , we can not conclude that the equatorial drift is at an end because hst images obtained in september 2008 show what appears to be the berg at a surprisingly low latitude of @xmath217s @xcite , which suggests that the berg s equatorial drift rate has actually accelerated .",
    "more observations in 2009 and beyond will be needed to unambiguously resolve the latitudinal drift and ultimate fate of this interesting dynamical feature .",
    "because of its 98spin - axis inclination , uranus has the largest fractional seasonal variation of insolation of any planet .",
    "because of its long radiative time constant , its response to this forcing should be small and phase shifted by a considerable fraction of the 90maximum .",
    "thus , it is plausible to suggest that uranus maximum north - south contrast should occur slightly before its 7 december 2007 equinox .",
    "leading up to equinox , the two hemispheres have had strong differences in the albedo of deep cloud bands ( fig.[fig : bandrev ] ) and in the dynamical activity producing localized bright and dark cloud features .",
    "these asymmetries are likely indicators of a seasonal response to the latitude - dependent seasonal variations of insolation and were expected to decline before equinox .",
    "if uranus were only responding to the local annual average insolation , we would expect its atmospheric structure to be roughly symmetric about the equator ( the expectation would be for exact symmetry except for the variation in uranus orbital distance with season ) .",
    "such approximate symmetry in structure does appear in recent microwave observations @xcite , which probe very deep levels where the radiative time constant greatly exceeds uranus 84-year orbital period .",
    "but at higher levels of the atmosphere , we have seen hemispheric contrast changes suggesting seasonal effects .",
    "the earliest changes were in the south polar cap , and the most recent in the bright band structure near 45s .",
    "analysis of 1986 voyager observations by @xcite inferred the existence of a southern polar cap of relatively thick clouds .",
    "however , the presence of single permanent south polar cap was strongly rejected by the light curve analysis of @xcite , as well as by the post 1994 imaging results .",
    "the bright cap was still prominent in 1994 , but declined significantly between 1994 and 2002 @xcite , leaving primarily a narrow bright band near 45s .",
    "@xcite interpreted the changed appearance as a decline in the optical depth of the methane cloud , placed between 1.26 and 2 bars , which resulted in better views of deeper cloud patterns at the 4-bar level , although changes in the polar region methane mixing ratio may have been an even more important factor @xcite .",
    "the `` collar '' that used to mark the boundary of the south polar cap is now visible as a bright band in images of intermediate absorption , such as the h - band images of figs . 2 - 6 .",
    "at short wavelengths , where little absorption is present , it is overwhelmed by rayleigh scattering , and at strongly absorbing wavelengths it is too deep to be seen .",
    "the band extends from approximately 40s to 48s in planetocentric coordinates ( 41.3to 49.3planetographic ) .",
    "near - ir grism observations of uranus in 2006 from the keck telescope indicate that the bright band is associated with increased aerosol scattering in a cloud layer near 2 bars @xcite .",
    "this cloud pressure estimate is based on methane band absorption models of @xcite and a 1% ch@xmath19 mixing ratio . using a 1.6% methane mixing ratio , which is closer to that estimated at the band latitude by @xcite ,",
    "@xcite also found increased scattering near 2 bars from an analysis of similar near - ir spectra of uranus obtained at the ukirt observatory . on the other hand",
    ", @xcite were able to fit stis ccd spectral images of the bright band using a model with locally increased aerosol scattering in a distributed layer between 1.2 and 2 bars .",
    "they argue that absorption coefficient extrapolation errors at near - ir wavelengths may be contributing to this pressure disagreement .",
    "recent hst wfpc2 and keck observations of the bright band already provide evidence for the expected eventual reversal in hemispheric contrast .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : bandrev ] , both in the sequence of keck h - band images and in the minnaert plots for 2004 and 2007 , which are used to correct for view angle and illumination differences . for each year",
    "we separately sampled reflectivity variations within a 42 - 46s band ( planetocentric coordinates ) and in what appears to be a developing northern band ( using a symmetric sampling window of 42 - 46n ) .",
    "we fit these samples to the minnaert function @xmath20 , then evaluated each function for the same angular conditions ( @xmath21 ) .",
    "because not all of the keck imagery has yet been photometrically calibrated , we scaled the images to yield the same central disk i / f value of ( 1.09@xmath180.05)@xmath22 , which is the h filter i / f value determined by @xcite .",
    "the keck h - band results reveal a small ( 14% ) decline in the brightness of the south band and a substantial ( 39% ) increase in brightness in the northern band .",
    "although absolute changes are somewhat uncertain ( perhaps 5% or more ) , there is little question that the northern and southern bands have been moving towards each other in brightness , with the northern band clearly brightening .",
    "changes in band brightness have also been resolved by hst wfpc2 images @xcite , which have more accurate photometry , although the size of the effect is much smaller at shorter wavelengths and the effect of phase angle variations needs to be considered . in fig .",
    "[ fig : hstbandrev ] we display a minnaert plot comparing hst wfpc2 f953n images from 2004 and 2007 , finding a 10% decrease in the southern band and a 15% increase in the northern band ; when we make the same comparison between 2005 and 2007 , which provides nearly equal phase angles , the changes drop to 6% and 11% respectively , which is approximately consistent with a linear change . however , an analysis of the f791w hst observations yields somewhat different results , indicating that imperfect minnaert corrections for the viewing angle differences at different phase angles may contribute a small fraction ( @xmath21/4 ) of the observed changes in hst images of uranus between 2004 and 2007 .    ) .,title=\"fig:\",width=316 ] ) .,title=\"fig:\",width=316 ]        if we assume that the brightness changes of the two 45bands continued at the same rates observed between 2004 and 2007 , they would reach equal view - angle corrected i / f values in the f953n filter band 3.5 years after equinox ( when equal solar forcing existed in both hemispheres ) .",
    "a similar calculation for the h - band suggests a phase delay of 2.2 years . these are surprisingly small delays compared to the @xmath2100-year radiative time constant estimated near the 1-bar level by @xcite .",
    "of course the temporal coverage for the 45band variations is only a tiny fraction of a full cycle , and the actual mechanism of forcing is unknown , making the meaning of the phase delay estimates subject to considerable uncertainty .",
    "hst wfpc2 imaging and near - infrared adaptive optics imaging of uranus by the keck ii telescope during and leading up to 2007 has revealed new constraints on the dynamical response of the uranus atmosphere to seasonal forcing .",
    "our main conclusions are as follows :    1 .   _ discrete cloud features .",
    "_ we found 85 features that could be tracked well enough to yield wind errors @xmath23 40 m / s , 51 of which were tracked for intervals between 1 and 6 hours , and 28 of which were tracked for more than a full rotation of uranus .",
    "discrete clouds were found at higher northern latitudes than previously was possible ( up to 73n ) , but otherwise the distribution of clouds was similar to that seen in 2003 - 4 , except for greater numbers of clouds in the 35- 45n region .",
    "no trackable features were observed south of 42.5s and few accurate winds could be measured at low latitudes due to sparse sampling and the lack of discrete features with sufficient contrast .",
    "2 .   _ zonal mean circulation . _",
    "the zonal mean circulation measured in 2007 attained very high accuracy at 28 latitudes where long - lived features could be tracked and medium accuracy at 10 latitudes by binning the 1 - 6 hr tracking results .",
    "the extended latitude range of our data allowed us to define for the first time a northern jet maximum near 58n .",
    "we also remeasured features in 2003 images obtained by @xcite , correcting for a small navigation error present in the original results and producing winds that are more consistent with other measurements .",
    "_ asymmetry in zonal circulation .",
    "_ uranus zonal circulation profile has a small asymmetry that is most apparent in the 20 - 40latitude range , reaching a broad peak of around 20 m / s in the difference between north and south wind measurements at corresponding latitudes .",
    "this can be seen in 2007 measurements , but is more firmly established by combining measurements from 1997 - 2007 .",
    "symmetry properties equatorward of 20and poleward of 50cannot be assessed because of inadequate sampling .",
    "temporal changes in the zonal circulation .",
    "_ uranus southern hemispheric circulation measured in 2007 ( near equinox ) does not differ significantly from that measured in 2003 - 4 or from that measured by voyager in 1986 ( near solstice ) .",
    "if the observed asymmetry near equinox were seasonally reversed , the circulation should be midway through reversal near solstice , suggesting that voyager winds should be @xmath210 m / s slower than winds near equinox .",
    "that does not appear to be the case , suggesting that the small asymmetry observed in the circulation profile might be a permanent dynamical feature .",
    "observations over a much longer time interval will be needed to firmly settle this issue .",
    "_ long - lived cloud features .",
    "_ seven cloud features were tracked for more than 1000 hours , several of which were associated with large groups that might be considered companion clouds to vortex circulations not directly observed .",
    "the longest lived cloud feature lasted for more than 2250 hours and has a non - uniform drift rate consistent with a latitudinal oscillation with a period of 2000 hours and an amplitude of @xmath23 .",
    "6 .   _ the major northern cloud complex .",
    "_ a group of bright features observed near 30n seems to consist of companions to a recently discovered visible dark spot .",
    "the feature has non - uniform motions consistent with coupled latitude and longitude oscillations , with a period of 350 hours , and amplitudes of 0.55 in latitude and @xmath23 in longitude .",
    "although no individual component was tracked throughout the observation period , the complex as a group of variable components did exist throughout the observation period ( covering 2250 hours ) , and seems likely to be the same feature associated with the 2006 uranus dark spot @xcite , and perhaps the extremely bright cloud complex discovered first in 2005 keck images @xcite . 7 .   _",
    "dynamics of the berg .",
    "_ the major southern cloud feature that oscillated for many years between planetocentric latitudes of 32s and 36.5s , started drifting northward in 2005 , reaching a mean latitude near 26s in 2007 .",
    "remarkable morphological changes occurred during this drift , and beginning as early as 2004 @xcite , some components reached altitudes high enough to be visible in k@xmath0 images .",
    "this is the only feature observed on uranus or neptune that exhibited a long period of latitudinal oscillations and subsequently transitioned to a state of latitudinal drift .",
    "its subsequent fate may help us to understand the disappearance of neptune s second dark spot ( ds2 ) .",
    "_ progress towards bright band reversal .",
    "_ in the keck ii images a northern bright band became visible in 2007 , a counterpart to the bright band extending from 40 - 48planetocentric latitude ( 41 - 49planetographic ) in the southern hemisphere .",
    "photometric analyses of keck and hst images show that from 2004 to 2007 the southern band has faded by 14% in the h band keck ii images , and by 10% in wfpc2 953n images , while the northern band has brightened by 39% and 15% respectively .",
    "this suggests that hemispheric symmetry at this latitude would be achieved 2.2 - 3.5 years after equinox and that bright band reflectivity has a surprisingly small lag relative to solar forcing .",
    "future observations should provide a much better definition of the circulation at high northern latitudes and better measures of the hemispheric contrast reversal that seems to be currently underway .",
    "we would expect to see a considerable brightening of the northern bright band and the eventual formation of a northern polar cap .",
    "hopefully , the circulation at high northern latitudes can be well characterized before a thickening northern polar cap obscures discrete cloud features needed to track the winds .",
    "a breakup of the southern bright band may permit measurement of wind speeds in this thus - far poorly characterized region .",
    "the changes in vertical cloud structure associated with these changes in brightness distributions on uranus will be investigated with the help of near - ir spectra as well as band - pass filter imagery from both hst and keck observatories , some of which have already been acquired .",
    "we thank two anonymous reviewers for detailed reviews and constructive suggestions , specifically for pointing out the implied short time delay between equinox and projected bright band symmetry .",
    "this work is partly based on observations with the nasa / esa hubble space telescope .",
    "support for program numbers 10805 , 11118 , 11156 , 11190 , and 11292 was provided by nasa through grants from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract no . nas5 - 26555 .",
    "support for this work was also provided by nasa through its planetary atmospheres program under grant nng05gf00 g ( las ) and the planetary astronomy program under grant nng05g084 g ( las ) .",
    "hbh acknowledges support from nasa grants nng0gg125 g , nnx06ad12 g , and nnx07a043 g , as well as funding from nasa specifically for keck observations and reductions .",
    "idp has been funded by nasa grant nnx07ak70 g , and by the national science foundation and technology center for adaptive optics , managed by uc santa cruz under cooperative agreement no .",
    "some of the data presented herein were obtained at the w. m. keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california , and nasa , and was built with financial support of the w. m. keck foundation .",
    "the authors wish to recognize and acknowledge the very significant cultural role and reverence that the summit of mauna kea has always had within the indigenous hawaiian community .",
    "we are most fortunate to have the opportunity to conduct observations from this mountain .        , m. , beebe , r.  f. , conrath , b.  j. , hinson , d.  p. , ingersoll , a.  p. , 1991 .",
    "uranus atmospheric dynamics and circulation . in : bergstralh ,",
    "j.  t. , miner , e.  d. , matthews , m.  s. ( eds . ) , uranus .",
    "university of arizona , tucson , pp .",
    "253295 .                , h.  b. , sromovsky , l.  a. , fry , p.  m.  rages , k. , showalter , m. , de pater , i. , van dam , m. , 2009 .",
    "the dark spot in the atmosphere of uranus in 2006 : discovery , description , and dynamical simulations .",
    "icarus 201 , 257271 .      ,",
    "p.  g.  j. , sromovsky , l.  a. , strong , e.  k. , sihra , k. , bowles , n. , calcutt , s.  b. , remedios , j.  j. , 2006 .",
    "improved near - infrared methane band models and k - distribution parameters from 2000 to 9500 cm-1 and implications for interpretation of outer planet spectra .",
    "icarus 181 , 309319 .          ,",
    "e. , tomasko , m. , 2008 .",
    "standard interpretation method for methane band imaging disproven for uranus . in : bull .",
    "40 of aas / division for planetary sciences meeting abstracts .",
    "p. 489 .",
    ", g.  f. , lyons , j.  r. , sweetnam , d.  n. , eshleman , v.  r. , hinson , d.  p. , 1987 .",
    "the atmosphere of uranus - results of radio occultation measurements with voyager 2 .",
    "j. geophys .",
    "92  ( 11 ) , 1498715001 .",
    ", p.  k. , abalakin , v.  k. , bursa , m. , davies , m.  e. , de bergh , c. , lieske , j.  h. , oberst , j. , simon , j.  l. , standish , e.  m. , 2002 .",
    "report of the iau / iag working group on cartographic coordinates and rotational elements of the planets and satellites .",
    "celestial mechanics and dynamical astronomy 82 , 83110 .    , b.  a. , soderblom , l.  a. , beebe , r. , bliss , d. , brown , r.  h. , collins , s.  a. , boyce , j.  m. , briggs , g.  a. , brahic , a. , cuzzi , j.  n. , morrison , d. , co - authors , 1986 .",
    "voyager 2 in the uranian system - imaging science results .",
    "science 233 , 4364 .            , l.  a. , fry , p.  m. , ahue , w.  m. , hammel , h.  b. , de pater , i. , rages , k.  a. , showalter , m.  r. , van dam , m.  a. , 2008 .",
    "uranus at equinox : cloud morphology and dynamics . in : bull .",
    "40 of aas / division for planetary sciences meeting abstracts .",
    "pp . 488489 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> as the 7 december 2007 equinox of uranus approached , collaboration between ring and atmosphere observers in the summer and fall of 2007 produced a substantial collection of groundbased observations using the 10-m keck telescope with adaptive optics and space - based observations with the hubble space telescope . </S>",
    "<S> both near - infrared and visible - wavelength imaging and spatially resolved near - infrared spectroscopic observations were obtained . </S>",
    "<S> we used observations spanning the period from 7 june 2007 through 9 september 2007 to identify and track cloud features , determine atmospheric motions , characterize cloud morphology and dynamics , and define changes in atmospheric band structure . </S>",
    "<S> atmospheric motions were obtained over a wider range of latitudes than previously was possible , extending to 73n , and for 28 cloud features we obtained extremely high wind - speed accuracy through extended tracking times . </S>",
    "<S> we confirmed the existence of the suspected northern hemisphere prograde jet , locating its peak near 58n . </S>",
    "<S> the new results confirm a small n - s asymmetry in the zonal wind profile , and the lack of any change in the southern hemisphere between 1986 ( near solstice ) and 2007 ( near equinox ) suggests that the asymmetry may be permanent rather than seasonally reversing . in the 2007 images we found two prominent groups of discrete cloud features with very long lifetimes . </S>",
    "<S> the one near 30s has departed from its previous oscillatory motion and started a significant northward drift , accompanied by substantial morphological changes . </S>",
    "<S> the complex of features near 30n remained at a nearly fixed latitude , while exhibiting some characteristics of a dark spot accompanied by bright companion features . </S>",
    "<S> smaller and less stable features were used to track cloud motions at other latitudes , some of which lasted over many planet rotations , though many could not be tracked beyond a single transit . </S>",
    "<S> a bright band has developed near 45n , while the bright band near 45s has begun to decline , both events in agreement with the idea that the asymmetric band structure of uranus is a delayed response to solar forcing , but with a surprisingly short delay of only a few years . </S>"
  ]
}