{
  "article_text": [
    "globular clusters ( gcs ) in the galactic bulge preserve in their spatial distribution and orbital evolution essential information to probe the early the early formation stages of the galaxy central parts .",
    "the combination of dynamical properties of globular clusters , with their ages and chemical composition , provides a new tool to investigate the bulge stellar populations , and to build a consistent scenario of the galactic bulge formation .",
    "stars and globular clusters in the galactic halo present very elliptical orbits , with low angular momentum , while disk objects show circular orbits with high angular momentum , and small vertical velocity .",
    "the bulge instead shows an intermediate angular momentum , with higher perpendicular velocities than disc stars , but not going as deep into the halo as genuine halo stars .",
    "for the field bulge stars , kinematics reveals two different behaviours ( babusiaux et al .",
    "2010 ) : ( 1 ) a metal poor component , enriched in [ mg / fe ] , consistent with an isotropic rotating population belonging to an old spheroid , and ( 2 ) a metal rich one with a vertex deviation consistent with that expected from a population with orbits supporting a bar .",
    "the spatial separation of these two components is not well determined .",
    "more recently , babusiaux et al . ( 2014 ) and zoccali et al . ( 2014 ) carried out large surveys on stars in the galactic bar , inner disk and central bulge , by measuring radial velocities and metallicities from cat lines , and traced the bar with more precision . of interest to us",
    "is the conclusion that there is a concentration of metal - poor stars , that could have formed before the bar instability , and could have been trapped by the bar when it formed , staying confined in the innermost regions of the boxy bulge ( babusiaux et al .",
    "2014 ; di matteo et al .",
    "their conclusion is that the exact distribution of metal - poor stars , and their connection with the formation history of the thick disk , inner halo and the bar need further investigations .",
    "most of previous efforts in bulge cluster proper motion measurements were carried out using hst data as those e.g. by zoccali et al .",
    "( 2001 ) for ngc 6553 , feltzing & johnson ( 2002 ) for ngc 6528 , bellini et al .",
    "( 2013 ) for ngc 6338 and ngc 6441 , and kuijken & rich ( 2002 ) for field stars .",
    "ground - based large telescopes equipped with multi - conjugate adaptive optics also allowed proper - motion - cleaning to be performed , such as those carried out by ferraro et al .",
    "( 2009 ) for terzan 5 , and ortolani et al .",
    "( 2011 ) for hp  1 .      in previous works we studied the inner bulge globular clusters , by means of colour - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) and spectroscopy ( e.g. ortolani et al .",
    "1995 ; barbuy et al .",
    "1998 , 2009 ) .",
    "we now have an unprecedented archive of ccd images taken since the 90s with european southern observatory ( eso ) ntt and danish telescopes , and the hubble space telescope ( hst ) . through the combination of this archive data with more recent ccd images ,",
    "this data set allows cluster proper motions to be derived , and therefore proper - motion - cleaned cmds and kinematics ( e.g. ortolani et al .",
    "2011 ) .",
    "we focus on moderately metal - poor gcs ( [ fe / h]@xmath0 ) with blue horizontal branch , projected at low galactic latitude , because they might be the oldest population in the galaxy ( e.g. barbuy et al .",
    "they might belong to the same generation of stars as the central rr lyrae ( dkny et al .",
    "2013 ) , the latter identified as an old and spheroidal component of the bulge .",
    "we also study a few more metal - rich gcs .",
    "our main goal is to derive accurate ( @xmath10.5 mas / yr ) absolute proper motions .",
    "kinematic properties of the sample clusters should allow bulge members and halo intruders to be distinguished .",
    "the proper - motion results , coupled with radial velocities , allow 3d - orbit determinations in the galactic potential ( e.g. ortolani et al . 2011 ) .",
    "the orbits will be used to constrain different stellar - population components . in a forthcoming paper",
    "the orbits will be presented in detail .    in this work",
    "we derive the initial state vector for a total of ten gcs together with a recompilation of their metallicities .",
    "2 describes the selection of the sample . in sect .",
    "3 we report the observations . in sect .",
    "4 proper motions are derived . in sect .",
    "5 we present an analysis of errors , the results are presented in sect . 6 and conclusions are drawn in sect ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we computed proper motions of a selected sample of globular clusters projected on the central bulge , employing ccd images gathered along the last 25 years at the eso - ntt , eso - danish and hst telescopes . </S>",
    "<S> we presented a method to derive their proper motions , and a set of coordinate transformations to obtain 3d galactic velocity vectors of the clusters . </S>",
    "<S> we analysed 10 globular clusters , namely terzan 1 , terzan 2 , terzan 4 , terzan 9 , ngc 6522 , ngc 6558 , ngc 6540 , al  3 , eso456sc38 and palomar 6 . for comparison purposes we also studied the outer bulge cluster ngc 6652 . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the general properties of the proper - motion - cleaned colour - magnitude diagrams , derived for the first time for most of them . </S>",
    "<S> a general conclusion is that the inner bulge globular clusters have clearly lower transverse motions ( and spatial velocities ) than halo clusters , and appear to be trapped in the bulge bar .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxy : bulge  globular clusters : individual : ngc 6522 , ngc 6558 , al  3 , hp  1 , eso456-sc38 ( djorgovski 2 ) , ngc 6540 ( djorgovski 3 ) , terzan 1 , terzan 2 , terzan 4 , terzan 9 , palomar 6 , ngc 6652 </S>"
  ]
}