{
  "article_text": [
    "the recent discovery of a bosonic resonance with mass of at the lhc  @xcite , has open the possibility of studying in details the electroweak symmetry breaking sector .",
    "the current data suggest that the resonance resembles the standard higgs boson .",
    "since no deviation from the standard model ( sm ) has been already observed , it is possible that a new physics sector may still exist at an energy scale high enough to escape direct detection at the lhc .",
    "in such a case , the presence of new physics can be manifested , although more subtly , through corrections to the properties of the standard particles induced at loop level .",
    "for instance , it is expected that precision measurements of the properties of the higgs boson at a higgs factory ( for example , the planned international linear collider or ilc ) could shed light on the nature of an eventual nonstandard sector .",
    "one of the best motivated extensions of the sm is the possible existence of more than three spatial dimensions . in this scenario , it is tempting to consider in the bulk an extended gravitational sector .",
    "indeed , it seems that einstein s theory of gravity , known as general relativity ( gr ) , is a low energy effective theory of a more fundamental one due to the lack of a mechanism for quantizing the theory . in an effort to obtain a more fundamental theory of gravity ,",
    "several generalizations of gr have been proposed . from these theories ,",
    "the minimal generalization was proposed by cartan  @xcite , and it is known as einstein  cartan theory of gravity ( ect ) .",
    "the main difference between gr and ect is that the latter does not assume the gravitational connection to be the one of levi - civita , and therefore there is an extra component of the connection known as ( gravitational ) torsion .",
    "it is worth to mention that in this minimal frame , the gravitational torsion turns to be a non - dynamical field and can be integrated out of the system .",
    "when the ect of gravity is coupled with fermionic matter , despite the fact that torsion can still be integrated out , its integration produces a four - fermion contact interaction  @xcite . in four dimensions the effective four - fermion interaction term has a coupling constant proportional to newton s gravitational constant , @xmath0 , which heavily suppresses the possible phenomenology coming from this term",
    "however , in the last decades scenarios with extra dimensions have been proposed as a way to achieve naturalness between the electroweak and the ( fundamental ) gravitational scales , @xmath1 , while the known planck s mass , @xmath2 , is an enhanced effective gravitational scale  @xcite .",
    "this new interaction induced by torsion may originates observable effects such as explaining the origin of fermion masses  @xcite , several cosmological problems  @xcite , neutrino oscillation phenomena  @xcite , impose limits on extra dimensional model  @xcite , and changing one - loop observable  @xcite .",
    "a possible effect of this four - fermion interaction is to modify , through loop effects , the decay width of the higgs boson into a pair of fermions .",
    "this deviation from standard predictions could be observed in principle , by mean of precision measurements performed in a future lepton collider .",
    "the aim of this work is to estimate the size of this effect depending on the extra dimension scale of gravity . to this end",
    ", a brief review of the theoretical setup is presented in sec .",
    "[ ceg ] . then , in sec .  [ 1loop ]",
    "we show the one - loop corrections to the higgs decay into a lepton pair , due to the effective four - fermion interaction . finally , in sec .  [ phenom ]",
    "we analyze the phenomenological constraints to the parameter of our model imposed by the experimental data .",
    "the standard formalism used in the gr , where the physical field is the metric , is know as second order formalism  due to the fact that the equations of motion are of second order . however , in this section we shall deal with the first order formalism , which accomplish the same goal through the splitting the equations of motion into first order differential equations by introducing two independent fields , known as vielbeins and spin connection these fields define the torsion and curvature two - forms via the cartan structure equations @xmath3 we shall use the notation in refs .  , where hatted quantities refer to higher dimensional objects and/or indices , and @xmath4 is the four - dimensional chiral matrix .",
    "we start from the @xmath5-dimensional action which includes the ect of gravity and dirac fields interacting with the gravitational field , @xmath6 where @xmath7 is the spinorial covariant derivative in a curved spacetime , defined by @xmath8 the equation of motion for the spin connection in eq .",
    "yield an algebraic equation for the components of the torsion , @xmath9 , @xmath10 where the torsional construction in the lhs is known as the contorsion , @xmath11 , and additionally from the rhs the only not trivial contribution of the contorsion is the totally antisymmetric part .",
    "moreover , the contorsion appears as a tensor which relates the `` affine '' spin connection ( @xmath12 ) with the torsion free one ( @xmath13 ) , i.e. , since the eq .",
    "is algebraic , it can be substituted back into the original action .",
    "the new action , expressed in terms of torsion - free quantities includes gr coupled with dirac fields , plus an induced four - fermion contact interaction of the form @xmath14 which in four dimensions  where @xmath15  is suppressed by the planck mass as anticipated .",
    "since the value of the planck mass is several orders of magnitude higher than any order scale in the sm of particle physics , this effective interaction is negligible for any phenomenological effect .",
    "nevertheless , in the last decades some higher dimensional scenarios have been proposed such that there is a fundamental scale of gravity ( @xmath1 ) which is enhanced in the four - dimensional effective theory up to the planck mass  @xcite . in these scenarios ,",
    "the gravitational scale can be so low as a few , providing a solution to the huge difference between the sm scale and gravitational scale , known as the hierarchy problem .",
    "additionally , the change in the gravitational scale have repercussions in the suppression of the four - fermion interaction , because @xmath16 in eq .",
    "is replaced by @xmath17 .",
    "if we restrict ourselves to consider a single extra dimension , the clifford algebra in five dimensions can be decomposed in terms of four - dimensional one as follows , @xmath18 therefore , the interaction in eq .",
    "give rise to axial  axial and tensor - axial  tensor - axial interactions  @xcite @xmath19",
    "in this section we shall consider the contribution of the effective four - fermion interaction in eq .",
    ", to the decay of the higgs boson into a lepton pair , which is a one - loop process . to this end",
    ", we split the effective interaction into a current  current interaction ( inspired by ref .  )",
    "@xmath21 which generate two different contributions to the @xmath20 process , which will be called _ s - channel _ ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : s ] ) and _ t - channel _ ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : t ] ) respectively .",
    "a ( psudo)scalar field decays into a lepton pair through a current of the form @xmath22 where @xmath23 and @xmath24 are the scalar and pseudo - scalar form factors , and @xmath25 is the chiral matrix in four dimensions . accordingly to the current in eq .",
    ", the width decay of a ( pseudo)scalar particle into a fermion pair is given by @xmath26 notice that for the higgs boson @xmath27 and @xmath28 .",
    "we used the mathematica package `` feyncalc ''  @xcite to calculate the correction to the higgs width decay .",
    "although we consider the general current presented in eq .  , the result shows that no pseudo - scalar form factor is generated , i.e. , @xmath29 to one - loop .",
    "additionally , due to the lorentz structure of the fermionic currents composing the four - fermion contact interaction , the `` t - channel '' feynman diagram ( fig .  [ fig : t ] ) does not contribute to the width decay of the higgs boson .    in order to obtain a numerical result",
    ", we assume that the fundamental scale of gravity @xmath1 is of the order of the _ new physics _",
    "scale @xmath30 .",
    "therefore , our results , despite of coming from extra dimensions , do not depend explicitly of the number of extra dimensions .",
    "we parametrize the corrections to the width decay as a function of this scale of new physics .    in our model ,",
    "the correction to the scalar form factor induced by the four - fermion interaction is @xmath31 this results into a variation of the width decay of the form @xmath32 the above formula gets modified by a colour factor ( @xmath33 ) when we consider decay into quarks .",
    "as mentioned , only the `` s - channel '' feynman diagram contribute to the variation of the width decay of the higgs into fermion pairs . since the torsion induced four - fermion interaction comes from the kinetic term , although the dimensional reduction induces a kaluza ",
    "klein tower in the effective particle spectrum , indisputably the fermion around the loop has the same flavour as the outgoing particles .",
    "therefore , none of the particles in the kaluza ",
    "klein tower enter in the analysis .",
    "we focus on decays into @xmath34 and @xmath35 pairs , because these are the main fermionic decay modes . in order to estimate the size of the effect we compare it with the total width decay of the higgs predicted by the sm .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : hdt ] .        from the plot ( fig .",
    "[ fig : hdt ] ) , it is clear that the variation on the higgs width decay is one order of magnitude enhanced in the case of the bottom quark pair , in comparison with the decay into @xmath36 pairs . for fundamental gravitational scales as low as",
    ", the correction induced by the torsion - induced interaction is of about % for the decay @xmath37 , while for the process @xmath38 it decreases to % .",
    "it can be expected that effects of these orders could be observed at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) within a few years , when the luminosity will be improved and the statistics is enough for accomplishing the required precision .",
    "however , recent analysis on the constraints imposed by the torsion induced four - fermion interaction on the @xmath39 boson decay ( see refs .  ) , the strongest limit is @xmath40 . given this stringent limit , the correction to the width decay of the higgs drops to approximately % and % for bottom and tau pairs respectively .",
    "such limits are unlike to be measure in current experiments , but could be reached at future higgs factories , such as the international linear collider ( ilc ) or the compact linear collider ( clic ) , which could provide a deeper insight of the core process because the electron - positron annihilation is clearer , due to the reduced background .",
    "b. d.  s. thanks to the universidad austral de chile for the hospitality during the completion of this work .",
    "f. r. thanks to the university of southampton ( uk ) for the hospitality during the completion of this work ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we consider the change of the higgs width decay into a fermion pair with respect to the standard model , due to the four - fermion contact interaction coming from the existence of gravitational torsion within the context of extra dimension scenarios . </S>"
  ]
}