{
  "article_text": [
    "empirical mode decomposition ( emd ) is an adaptive signal analysis algorithm , introduced in @xcite for the analysis of non - stationary signals as well as signals generated from nonlinear systems and has become an established method for the signal analysis in various applications .",
    "the emd decomposes a given signal into a finite number of band limited intrinsic mode functions ( imfs ) which are derived directly from the data , unlike other signal decomposition techniques ( like fourier , wavelets , etc . ) which use predefined fixed basis for the signal analysis .",
    "the notion of instantaneous frequency ( if ) and amplitude , derived from the hilbert - huang transform ( hht ) provides an insight into the time - frequency and energy features of the signal . the ensemble emd ( eemd ) is a noise - assisted data analysis method , developed in @xcite , to overcome the time scale separation problem of emd .",
    "the multivariate emd ( memd ) , developed in @xcite , is a generalization of the emd for multichannel data analysis .",
    "the compact emd ( cemd ) algorithm is proposed in @xcite to reduce mode mixing , end effect , and detrend uncertainty present in emd and to reduce computation complexity of eemd as well . to restrain the end effects and",
    "also to remove iterative errors and noise signal , wavelet analysis is used in the sifting process of the emd , and a new stopping criterion based on correlation analysis is also proposed in @xcite .",
    "the imfs generated by emd are dependent on distribution of local extrema of signal and the type of spline used for upper and lower envelope interpolation and the traditional emd uses cubic spline for upper and lower envelope interpolation .",
    "the emd algorithm , proposed in @xcite to reduce mode mixing and detrend uncertainty , uses nonpolynomial cubic spline interpolation to obtain upper and lower envelopes , and have shown @xcite that it improves orthogonality among imfs .",
    "some recent studies , on the emd based method have been performed for noise elimination  @xcite and condition - based adaptive trend prediction for rotating bearings  @xcite .    to eliminate energy leakage among imfs ,",
    "the orthogonal emd ( oemd ) is proposed in @xcite , which generates orthogonal imfs from the set of imfs through the gram - schmidt orthogonalization method ( gsom ) .",
    "imfs generated from emd , eemd and memd are not exactly orthogonal and hence there is always some energy leakage among the imf components and the total sum of energies of imfs is not equal to energy of signal , i.e. energy is not preserved in decomposition .    in any signal decomposition including emd , the energy preserving property is important for the accurate and faithful , analysis and processing of three dimensional time - frequency distribution of the energy . to preserve the energy of a signal in the decomposition ,",
    "we propose two epemd algorithms .",
    "first epemd algorithm directly provides the li , non orthogonal yet energy preserving ( linoep ) imfs and residue ( epimfs ) , and we present this novel class of ` linoep ' functions in a well - posed mathematical result . in the second epemd algorithm ,",
    "to completely eliminate energy leakage among the imf components , we propose a method to obtain ` orthogonal ' and ` orthogonal & uncorrelated ' imfs .",
    "this paper is organized as follows : in section ii we present brief review of the various variants of the emd ( i.e. emd , eemd , memd ) and imfs that are required in the present work .",
    "we propose the first epemd algorithm in section iii . in section iv ,",
    "the gsom and an orthogonal emd ( oemd ) is discussed , and we propose the second epemd algorithm , through reverse order methodology , to obtain ` orthogonal ' and ` orthogonal & uncorrelated ' imfs .",
    "simulation results are presented in section v. section vi presents conclusions .",
    "the emd can decompose a stationary or non - stationary signal into a set of finite band - limited imfs .",
    "the steps involved in emd algorithm @xcite , to extract imfs and residue from a given signal @xmath2 , are summarized in algorithm 1 .",
    "the sifting process will be continued until the final residue is either a constant function , or a monotonic function , or a function with only one maximum and one minimum from which no more imf can be derived .",
    "the decomposed signal @xmath2 is expressed as the sum of @xmath0 imf components plus the final residue : @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the @xmath5 imf and @xmath6 is final residue .",
    "first imf contains the finest scale or the shortest - period ( i.e. highest frequency ) oscillation and last imf contains the longest - period ( i.e. lowest frequency ) oscillation present in the signal . +    [ cols=\"<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ table : memder ]     ( first row ) and its imfs ( second row onwards ) obtained from memd of   in each column.,scaledwidth=99.0% ]              figure [ fig : tf_chirp ] shows the time - frequency ( t - f ) estimates for linear chirp ( time 0 to 0.3 second , @xmath7 hz , frequency range 100 to 200 hz , 50 zero padded ) , obtained using the emd , eemd and epemd . there is enhanced t - f tracking when using epemd as compare to emd and eemd .",
    "the reason for the artifacts in emd and eemd is high energies in the imfs of low frequencies due to leakage .",
    "the percentage energy leakage ( pee ) for emd , eemd and epemd are @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 , respectively .",
    "the statistical significance test of imfs is developed in @xcite to determine if data or its imf components contain relevant and useful or not so relevant information .",
    "the imf components with their energy located within the upper and lower bounds are considered as components generated from the gaussian white noise present in data and contain no signal information , and the imf components with their energy located outside the upper and lower bounds contain signal information , at the selected confidence level .    to study the statistical characteristics of white noise using emd ,",
    "the fourier spectra and mean periods estimation , the statistical significance test for each imfs has been performed in @xcite .",
    "similarly , here we obtain figures [ fig : imfs_wn_st ] to [ fig : rouimfs_wn_st ] which are the spread function plot , obtained via emd and epemd , for statistical significance test of the imfs , epimfs , foimfs and rouimfs of the gaussian white noise of @xmath11 samples with the normal distribution of mean 0 and standard deviation 1 .",
    "the dashed and solid lines are the @xmath12 and @xmath13 percentiles , respectively .",
    "the stars correspond to the pairs of the averaged mean energy density and the averaged mean period of imfs . since we have obtained these plots from the decomposition of the gaussian white noise , we expect averaged mean energy density well within confidence limit .",
    "it is clear from the figures that the averaged mean energy density of all epimfs , roimfs and rouimfs are well within confidence limit and represent the gaussian white noise , whereas the averaged mean energy density of two imfs and many foimfs components are not within confidence limit and hence these components represent spurious signal components and they are not providing any physical meaning .",
    "in this paper , we have proposed two energy preserving emd ( epemd ) algorithms .",
    "the first epemd algorithm , to preserve the energy of a signal in decomposition , decomposes a signal into the linearly independent ( li ) , non orthogonal yet energy preserving ( linoep ) imfs and residue ( epimfs ) . in the second algorithm",
    ", we have shown that if orthogonalization process proceeds from the lowest frequency component to highest frequency imf , the gsom yields functions which preserve the properties of imfs as well as the energy in decomposition , and hence eliminate the energy leakage among imfs .",
    "the suitability of the generated reverse orthogonal imfs ( roimfs ) and reverse orthogonal and uncorrelated imfs ( rouimfs ) are validated through the decomposition of various simulated as well as real life time series .",
    "the overall and partial index of orthogonality and energy leakage are used to demonstrate the marked improvement in the orthogonality of the roimfs and rouimfs components .",
    "finally , the statistical significance test of imfs , epimfs , roimfs and rouimfs generated from the white gaussian noise via emd and epemd algorithms are used to illustrate the relevance , improvement and effectiveness of the proposed methodologies .",
    "the epimfs , roimfs and rouimfs generated by various emds preserve the properties of imfs and the energy of signal in the decomposition , and are promising and generating better results .",
    "the authors would like to thank jiit noida , for permitting to carry out research at iit , delhi and providing all required resources throughout this study .",
    "24 , the empirical mode decomposition and hilbert spectrum for non - linear and non - stationary time series analysis , proc .",
    "a , 454 ( 1988 ) 903 - 995 . , empirical mode decomposition as a filter bank , ieee signal process .",
    "lett . , 11 ( 2 ) ( 2004 ) 112 - 114 . , the orthogonal hilbert - huang transform and its application in earthquake motion recording analysis , the @xmath14 world conference on earthquake engineering ( 2008 ) october 12 - 17 , beijing , china . ,",
    "ensemble empirical mode decomposition : a noise - assisted data analysis method , adv . adapt .",
    "data anal . , 1 ( 1 ) ( 2009 ) 1 - 41 . , multivariate empirical mode decomposition , proc .",
    "a , 466 ( 2010 ) 1291 - 1302 . , bivariate empirical mode decomposition , ieee signal process .",
    ", 14 ( 2007 ) 936 - 939 .",
    ", empirical mode decomposition for trivariate signals , ieee trans . signal processing , 58 ( 3 ) ( 2010 ) 1059 - 1068 . , a confidence limit for the empirical mode decomposition and hilbert spectral analysis , proc .",
    "a , 459 ( 2003 ) 2317 - 2345 . , complex valued non - linear adaptive filters : noncircularity , widely linear neural models , new york , ny : wiley 2009 . , a study of the characteristics of white noise using the empirical mode decomposition method , proc . r. soc . a , 460 ( 2004 ) 1597 - 1611 . , linearly independent , orthogonal , and uncorrelated variables , the american statistician , 38 ( 2 ) ( 1984 ) 133 - 134 . , compact empirical mode decomposition : an algorithm to reduce mode mixing , end effect , and detrend uncertainty , adv .",
    "data anal . , 4 ( 3 ) ( 2012 ) 1250017 .",
    ", improved hilbert - huang transform based weaks ignal detection methodology and its application on incipient fault diagnosis and ecg signal analysis , signal process .",
    ", 98 ( 2014 ) 74 - 87 .",
    ", nonpolynomial spline based empirical mode decomposition , 2013 international conference on signal processing and communication , ( 2013 ) 435 - 440 . ,",
    "some studies on nonpolynomial interpolation and error analysis , appl .",
    "comput . , 244 ( 2014 ) 809 - 821 . ,",
    "detrended fluctuation thresholding for empirical mode decomposition based denoising , digital signal processing , 32 ( 2014 ) 48 - 56 .",
    ", an adaptive method for health trend prediction of rotating bearings , digital signal processing , 35 ( 2014 ) 117 - 123 . , synchrosqueezed wavelet transforms : an empirical mode decomposition - like tool , appl .",
    ", 30 ( 2011 ) 243 - 261 . , equidistribution on the sphere , siam j. sci .",
    "comput . , 18 ( 2 ) ( 1997 ) 595 - 609 . , a product threom for hilbert transform , proc . of ieee , 51 ( 5 ) ( 1963 ) 868 - 869 .",
    ", on the quadrature approximation to the hilbert transform of modulated signals , proc . of ieee , 54 ( 10 ) ( 1966 ) 1458 - 1459 . , empirical mode decomposition - based time - frequency analysis of multivariate signals , ieee signal process . magazine , november ( 2013 ) 74 - 86 . [ online ] .",
    "available : http://rcada.ncu.edu.tw/research1.htm [ online ] .",
    "available : http://www.commsp.ee.ic.ac.uk/$\\sim$mandic/research/emd.htm [ online ] .",
    "available : http://www.vibrationdata.com/elcentro.htm"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we propose algorithms which preserve energy in empirical mode decomposition ( emd ) , generating finite @xmath0 number of band limited intrinsic mode functions ( imfs ) . in the first </S>",
    "<S> energy preserving emd ( epemd ) algorithm , a signal is decomposed into linearly independent ( li ) , non orthogonal yet energy preserving ( linoep ) imfs and residue ( epimfs ) . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that a vector in an inner product space can be represented as a sum of li and non orthogonal vectors in such a way that parseval s type property is satisfied . from the set of @xmath0 imfs , through gram - schmidt orthogonalization method ( gsom ) , </S>",
    "<S> @xmath1 set of orthogonal functions can be obtained . in the second algorithm </S>",
    "<S> , we show that if the orthogonalization process proceeds from lowest frequency imf to highest frequency imf , then the gsom yields functions which preserve the properties of imfs and the energy of a signal . with the hilbert transform , these imfs yield instantaneous frequencies and amplitudes as functions of time that reveal the imbedded structures of a signal . </S>",
    "<S> the instantaneous frequencies and square of amplitudes as functions of time produce a time - frequency - energy distribution , referred as the hilbert spectrum , of a signal . </S>",
    "<S> simulations have been carried out for the analysis of various time series and real life signals to show comparison among imfs produced by emd , epemd , ensemble emd and multivariate emd algorithms . </S>",
    "<S> simulation results demonstrate the power of this proposed method .    </S>",
    "<S> singh p. : energy preserving empirical mode decomposition    empirical mode decomposition ( emd ) ; energy preserving emd ( epemd ) ; multivariate emd ( memd ) ; gram - schmidt orthogonalization method ( gsom ) ; linearly independent ( li ) , non orthogonal yet energy preserving ( linoep ) signals . </S>"
  ]
}