{
  "article_text": [
    "mathematical notation is a _ natural",
    "_ language used to define the models , metrics and analytical tools of modern societies .",
    "it is natural in the sense that the notation is re - purposed and adapted for different mathematical concepts , problems , and communities , leading to various dialects .",
    "the influence of mathematical notation , while quiet , is pervasive . whether it is choosing foods to purchase based on their cost and quantified nutritional information , or using demographic and usage statistics to determine which forms of entertainment to attract and promote , where to build manufacturing sites , or how to represent a problem and its potential solutions in science and technology , math notation is an essential tool that shapes both our personal lives and environment .",
    "given this , math literacy is critical for participating fully in the modern world , and considerable attention continues to be focused on strengthening mathematics education .",
    "however , for many persons of all ages , mathematical notation is a source of significant frustration or anxiety at times due to real or perceived difficulties with interpreting unfamiliar notation .",
    "this is particularly true when the text accompanying mathematical notation is found to be confusing . to search the internet for alternative sources about the notation",
    ", users must formulate their query in text , even if they are unclear what about what the represented concept is .",
    "mathematical experts might search the internet using latex  for an expression , or using the ( often , already known ) name for the concept @xcite .",
    "even experts relate to the odd experience of revisiting concepts expressed in a notation distinct from that used when they originally learned a concept , and the difficulties this introduces in interpreting the notation .",
    "while mathematical concepts can often be notated various ways , some psychological studies suggests that the appearance of math notation affects our reasoning about it @xcite , and that individuals will often space subexpressions systematically when entering math , even if mathematically unnecessary @xcite .",
    "the studies suggest that our perception of math notation may be grounded in visual structure , i.e. how it looks .",
    "an important related concern is hit content summarization , i.e. how search hits are presented to the user @xcite . in a recent study",
    "it was confirmed that as one expects , the formatting of math expressions significantly affects relevance assessment of search hits @xcite .",
    "the normal hit format provided by google ( e.g. as raw latex  or presentation mathml ) was compared with the same hits with formulae rendered , and on average participants had a 17% higher relevance assessment accuracy in the rendered condition .",
    "we propose that if it is natural to use words from unclear texts in queries , it is also natural to use mathematical notation from unclear texts _",
    "directly _ in queries .",
    "a recent study illustrates the benefit of this approach @xcite .",
    "when undergraduate students were asked to learn about the binomial coefficient , and shown the expression @xmath1 , many did not know what the notation represented .",
    "when given an interface in which they could draw , recognize the spatial layout of symbols and then search for the expression , most participants found this to be both intuitive and helpful .    in the remainder of our paper , we summarize research carried out to realize the entry and retrieval of math based on its appearance , as this is what one works from when notation is unfamiliar or difficult to interpret , or when trying to locate similarly structured expressions ( e.g. when browsing formulae in a collection ) .",
    "in practice , math encodings are most commonly used to represent the appearance and mathematical content of formulae .",
    "appearance - based encodings such as latex  @xcite and presentation mathml are used to display mathematical expressions .",
    "a number of web browsers support presentation mathml directly ( e.g. firefox ) , and online tools such as mathjax may also be used to render latex  and mathml contained in html pages .",
    "mathematical content encodings such as content mathml can be used for evaluation and symbolic manipulation by computer algebra systems ( e.g. mathematica , maple ) .    as illustrated in figure [ fig : trees ] , the appearance and content of mathematical expressions are hierarchical . as a result ,",
    "both appearance and content - based encodings define trees , which are annotated in various ways to support applications .",
    "encodings for appearance represent a spatial arrangement of symbols on baselines ( writing lines ) , which we term a _ symbol layout tree_. in figure [ fig : trees]a the symbol layout tree is rooted at the leftmost parenthesis ( ` ( ' ) , and there are two writing lines present : the main baseline , and a superscripted baseline .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]      for space we will cover this topic just briefly , but we believe that this is an important future direction for research . figure [ fig : ui ] shows an evaluation interface for the first image - based handwritten math retrieval system @xcite .    in this",
    "system layout and contour features measured from an image of a handwritten mathematical expression are used to search document images for similar expressions .",
    "formulae are indexed using x - y cutting trees @xcite , with dynamic time warping of upper and lower image contours used to produce the final ranking ( adapting an earlier handwritten word spotting technique @xcite ) .",
    "we were very surprised that our first prototype allowed 10 participants to locate the page from which handwritten queries were taken 63% of the time in the top 10 on average ( 20 queries ) .",
    "if the original query images were used , then 90% of the original queries could be located in the top 10 results .",
    "related work is currently underway , using image - based retrieval of math in lecture videos using snapshots @xcite and handwritten queries @xcite .",
    "we have summarized our work on creating interfaces and search engines that support math retrieval using the appearance of mathematical expressions .",
    "our aim in doing this is to help all persons , mathematical non - experts and experts , to retrieve mathematical information naturally using the appearance of expressions , in combination with keywords when appropriate .",
    "a key direction for future research is the creation of intuitive , fast interfaces for diagram copying , editing and inclusion in search queries .",
    "@xmath0 has made a start in this direction , but much remains to be done .",
    "related to this , we believe that an important future line of research is redefining the conventional text ` search box ' to include formulae directly .",
    "currently , spectral approaches to matching structure in trees appear to be the most promising for appearance - based formula retrieval , such as that used in tangent .",
    "in addition to opportunities defined earlier , identifying ways to reduce index sizes and accelerate retrieval will be important for producing engines that will scale to very large collections , and ideally , internet search engine - scale collections .    in closing",
    ", there have been many advances in mathematical information retrieval in recent years , and we believe that progress in searching for diagrammatic notations will dramatically alter the way in which people search for technical information",
    ". it will allow queries to move from  documents with words similar to _ these _ \" to also include  documents with diagrams similar to _ these_. \"",
    "we thank george nagy , maria zemankova , christian viard - gaudin , harold mouchre , frank tompa and andrew kane for helpful discussions .",
    "thanks also to manish kanadje for proof - reading a draft of the paper . this material is based upon work supported by the national science foundation ( usa ) under grant numbers iis-1016815 and hcc-1218801 .",
    "baker , j.b . , sexton , a. , sorge , v. : a linear grammar approach to mathematical formula recognition from pdf . in : proc",
    ". mathematical knowledge management .",
    "lecture notes in artificial intelligence , vol . 5625 , pp .",
    "grand bend , canada ( july 2009 )      chatbri , h. , kwan , p.w . ,",
    "kameyama , k. : a modular approach for query spotting in document images and its optimization using genetic algorithms . in : proc .",
    "ieee congress on evolutionary computation .",
    ". 20852092 .",
    "beijing , china ( july 2014 )      davila , k. , agarwal , a. , gaborski , r. , zanibbi , r. , ludi , s. : accessmath : indexing and retrieving video segments containing math expressions based on visual similarity . in : proc .",
    "ieee western new york image proc . workshop .",
    "rochester , ny ( 2013 )    davila , k. , ludi , s. , zanibbi , r. : using off - line features and synthetic data for on - line handwritten math symbol recognition . in : proc .",
    "intl conf .",
    "frontiers in handwriting recognition .",
    "crete , greece ( 2014 )    hiroya , h. , saito , h. : partial - match retrieval with structure - reflected indices at the ntcir-10 math task . in : proc .",
    "nii testbeds and community for information access research .",
    "tokyo , japan ( june 2013 )    hu , l. , zanibbi , r. : hmm - based recognition of online handwritten mathematical symbols using segmental k - means initialization and a modified pen - up / down feature . in : proc . intl",
    "document analysis and recognition .",
    "457462 ( 2011 )    kamali , s. , tompa , f.w .",
    ": a new mathematics retrieval system . in : proceedings of the 19th acm international conference on information and knowledge management .",
    "cikm 10 , acm , new york , ny , usa ( 2010 )      kohlhase , m. , sucan , i. : a search engine for mathematical formulae . in : ida , t. , calmet , j. , wang , d. ( eds . ) proceedings of artificial intelligence and symbolic computation , aisc2006 .",
    ". 241253 .",
    "4120 in lnai , springer verlag ( 2006 ) , aisc06.pdf            maclean , s. , labahn , g. : a new approach for recognizing handwritten mathematics using relational grammars and fuzzy sets . international journal on document analysis and recognition ( ijdar ) pp .",
    "125 ( 2012 )      , h. , viard - gaudin , c. , zanibbi , r. , garain , u. : icfhr 2014 competition on recognition of on - line handwritten mathematical expressions ( crohme 2014 ) . in : proc",
    ". intl conf .",
    "frontiers in handwriting recognition .",
    ". 791796 .",
    "crete , greece ( 2014 )        pattaniyil , n. , zanibbi , r. : combining tf - idf text retrieval with an inverted index over symbol pairs in math expressions : the tangent math search engine at ntcir 2014 . in : proc .",
    "1tth nii testbeds and community for information access research ( ntcir ) .",
    "tokyo , japan ( 2014 ) , ( online , 8pp . )",
    "sasarak , c. , hart , k. , pospesel , r. , stalnaker , d. , hu , l. , livolsi , r. , zhu , s. , zanibbi , r. : @xmath0 : a multimodal web interface for web search . in : symp .",
    "human - computer interaction and information retrieval .",
    "( online , 4pp . ) .",
    "cambridge , ma ( oct 2012 )          sojka , p. , lka , m. : indexing and searching mathematics in digital libraries . in : davenport , j. , farmer , w. , urban , j. , rabe , f. ( eds . ) intelligent computer mathematics .",
    "vol . 6824 , pp .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg ( 2011 )    sombattheera , c. , loi , n. , wankar , r. , quan , t. , pavan  kumar , p. , agarwal , a. , bhagvati , c. : a structure based approach for mathematical expression retrieval . in : multi - disciplinary trends in artificial intelligence , lncs , vol .",
    "7694 , pp . 2334 .",
    "springer ( 2012 )    stalnaker , d. , zanibbi , r. : math expression retrieval using an inverted index over symbol pairs . in : proc .",
    "document recognition and retrieval xxii .",
    "spie , vol .",
    "9402 , pp .",
    "san francisco , usa ( feb 2015 )    suzuki , m. , t.kanahori , n.ohtake , k.yamaguchi : an integrated ocr software for mathematical documents and its output with accessibility . in : computers helping people with special needs , 9th international conference icchp2004 .",
    "lncs , vol . 3119 , pp .",
    "648655 ( 2004 )            zanibbi , r. , yu , l. : math spotting : retrieving math in technical documents using handwritten query images . in : proc .",
    "intl conf .",
    "document analysis and recognition .",
    "beijing , china ( sept 2011 )          zhao , j. , kan , m.y . ,",
    "theng , y.l . :",
    "math information retrieval : user requirements and prototype implementation . in : jcdl",
    "08 : proceedings of the 8th acm / ieee - cs joint conference on digital libraries .",
    ". 187196 .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa ( 2008 )    zhu , s. , hu , l. , zanibbi , r. : rotation - robust math symbol recognition and retrieval using outer contours and image subsampling . in : proc .",
    "document recognition and retrieval xx .",
    "san francisco , ca ( feb 2013 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we summarize math search engines and search interfaces produced by the document and pattern recognition lab in recent years , and in particular the  @xmath0 math search interface and the _ tangent _ search engine . </S>",
    "<S> source code for both systems are publicly available . </S>",
    "<S>  the masses \" refers to our emphasis on creating systems for mathematical non - experts , who may be looking to define unfamiliar notation , or browse documents based on the visual appearance of formulae rather than their mathematical semantics . </S>"
  ]
}