{
  "article_text": [
    "we recall here the development of a novel research field at cern , devoted to the phases and phase structure of matter governed by the strong fundamental force . its proper field theory was discovered around 1970 : quantum chromodynamics ( qcd ) addresses the fundamental interactions of elementary quarks , as mediated by gluons .",
    "importantly , the gluons carry strong charges themselves , unlike the uncharged photons that mediate the qed interaction .",
    "thus qcd is a much more complicated theory , mathematically .",
    "both these field theories constitute a part of the modern standard model of elementary interactions .",
    "they thus enter electrons , photons , quarks and gluons into our inventory of elementary particles .",
    "their predicted properties have been meticulously studied and confirmed by decades of particle physics research .",
    "now , our interest here is not the study of elementary qcd collisions , but of extended matter governed by the strong interaction , from a partonic plasma state to protons and nuclei , and to neutron stars .",
    "matter has arisen at an extremely early stage of the cosmological evolution , and is thus a part of the cosmological standard model ( developed in parallel to the standard model of elementary interactions ) .",
    "the universe has gone through successive , distinct stages of matter composition . from attoseconds to early microseconds the expanding cosmos was governed by a plasma fireball era , and composed of elementary quarks , gluons , electrons etc .",
    "the big bang matter was conductive toward , both , electric and colour charge currents , but structureless otherwise .",
    "our research field of qcd matter begins with this era .",
    "cooling provokes structure formation via phase transitions .",
    "note that they occur in macroscopic volumes only : we talk about phase transitions of extended matter . more precisely : although the transformations occur due to inter - quark neutralization and binding effects taking place at the microscopic scale , it is their collective synchronisation by macroscopic thermodynamic conditions such as density and temperature that leads to the emergence of states and phases of matter .",
    "the laws of thermodynamics , plus the microscopic intrinsic features of the carriers of degrees of freedom , and their interaction , constitute a characteristic phase diagram , with boundary lines between phases , in a plane of temperature and density .    what is the phase diagram of a macroscopic volume of qcd matter consisting of quarks and gluons ?",
    "this question represents the goal of the research field , addressed here . in other words",
    "we thus ask for the thermodynamics of qcd .",
    "thus , in marked contrast to particle physics focus on the elementary properties of partons , we wish to know what will go on in , say , a cubic meter of quark - gluon plasma , of primordial cosmological vintage , once it cools down to nucleons , or even recompresses in the interior of neutron stars .",
    "this is a deeply non - trivial question , concerning partons and hadrons with non - perturbative , in - medium modified interactions .    in the big bang cosmological evolution",
    "expansive cooling descends , from an initially arbitrarily high energy density of partons without structure because qcd bound states ( hadrons ) could not form , down to a much lower temperature where , in turn , no free partons could exist , but hadrons .",
    "the partons exhibit a horror vacui according to qcd that results from the fact that the force - mediating gluons carry strong colour charges themselves ; emitted from a quark they have to be absorbed by another quark .",
    "qcd tells us that the quarks have to stay confined , at low energy density , within colour - neutral bound states , the hadrons .",
    "indeed the cosmic evolution has left us with @xmath0 protons and neutrons but free quarks have never been observed .",
    "thus there must have occurred a phase transition from partonic to hadronic matter , at some intermediary density .",
    "we can not read the corresponding critical temperature directly off the present cosmological matter .",
    "two considerations might give insight before starting with experiments .",
    "as hadrons must form in a phase transition from quark matter plasma to bound quark clusters , i.e. in some form of condensation , we should expect that the protons interior energy density should closely resemble that of the medium they condense from .",
    "now we know that the proton interior energy density amounts to about 1 gev per cubic fermi .",
    "second , the cern physicist r. hagedorn had demonstrated long before the advent of qcd that the hadronic world must have a temperature limit , of about 165 mev .",
    "remarkably , in a gas of partons one could estimate that the energy density at this temperature roughly corresponds to the above 1 gev/@xmath1 ! now one infers from the einstein - friedman equations , long known to describe the space - time development that this density corresponds to the cosmological period in the early microsecond time domain .",
    "one cubic meter of matter at this time had ten times more mass than the entire nanga parbat mountain range .",
    "the perspective of a phase transition in qcd matter , sketched above , reflects the state of theoretical physics at around 1976 when stephen weinberg  @xcite wrote his famous book the first three minutes. its last chapter addresses the early stages of the cosmological expansion , and it is his point that the universe was a thermal fireball evolving in thermodynamic equilibrium .",
    "hot , thermal qcd had just been developed by shuryak  @xcite , baym  @xcite and kapusta  @xcite , introducing the name quark - gluon plasma(qgp ) for a free parton gas , following a first suggestion by collins and perry  @xcite .",
    "they had referred to the just - discovered  @xcite property of qcd to become a weak interaction at extremely high energy densities ( a property called asymptotic freedom ; we shall return to this later on ) , which could not hold together the bound hadrons .",
    "this idea turned out later to miss the real point of the qcd phase transition .",
    "but the first sketches of a qcd matter phase diagram , in terms of the variables temperature and density , had already been given  @xcite . and ,",
    "most importantly , there also appeared to be an experimental avenue to investigate hot , dense nuclear matter , perhaps up to , and beyond the hypothetical phase transition :    collisions of heavy nuclei ( so - called heavy ion collisions ) at relativistic energy could compress and heat the initial nucleonic matter , up to , and beyond the critical energy density of qcd , thus estimated .",
    "in fact , concurrent experiments at the berkeley bevalac ( a linac injecting nuclei into the bevatron synchrotron ) had shown by 1980 that , at the prevailing modest energies in the low gev per nucleon range , the two intersecting nuclear matter spheres stopped each other down creating a fireball at the center of mass coordinates . the major part of the initially longitudinal beam energy was trapped in it , leading to heating and compression . of",
    "course we are not in cosmology here , nuclei are small and the fireball will disintegrate fast , so the crucial issue of thermal equilibrium attainment needed attention .",
    "can we apply qcd thermodynamics , or hydrodynamics to the fireball ?",
    "phase transitions require a certain minimum ( relaxation ) time to be completed .",
    "how fast does the fireball re - expand ? will thermodynamic processes leave a trace in the eventually emitted hadrons , or will these look like a trivial superposition of elementary nucleon collisions ?",
    "the main question : could one define observable properties that should reveal characteristic stages or processes such as a typical plasma radiation , or characteristic changes of the initial partonic inventory unambiguously due to cooking through a partonic plasma fireball ? toward the early 1980 s some of these questions had found first affirmative answers , however tentative , from extrapolating the results obtained at the bevalac were collective processes such as hydrodynamic flow of hadronic matter had been clearly observed .",
    "the most important step , however , came from the progress of thermal qcd theory solving the unsurmountable mathematical problems of low energy , non - perturbative qcd numerically , in a lattice approximation .",
    "the existence of a phase change between hadrons and partons was shown , for the first time , with a plot by the us lattice group  @xcite showing the specific heat capacity of qcd matter as a function of the temperature .",
    "it showed a dramatic , steep upward jump at some critical temperature t@xmath2 .",
    "this signals the massive increase in the number of degrees of freedom , which should indeed take place when nucleons decompose into their constituent quarks at the phase boundary . recall that a nucleon consists of three bound quarks which , moreover , each carry one out of three different colour charge units .",
    "they become the new set of degrees of freedom in a deconfined qcd plasma state . and , equally sensational",
    ", the critical temperature was found to be about 170 mev ( initially with considerable uncertainties ) , essentially equal to hagedorns former upper boundary of matter composed of hadrons !",
    "after these and other theoretical lessons learned , scientists got encouraged to sketch a universal phase diagram of strongly interacting matter  @xcite , as shown in figure  [ phasediagram ] .",
    "looking at this plot one is reminded of the fact that a high energy density can be achieved , not only by heating but also by compressing . both",
    "can , alone or in conjunction , drive qcd matter to the phase boundary .",
    "thus the left hand part of the diagram refers to hot big bang dynamics and quark - gluon plasma , the right hand side to gravitationally recompressed cold matter in supernovae , neutron stars , perhaps black holes .",
    "are there quark stars ?",
    "at such heights of fascinating theory and speculation one must turn to experiments ! extrapolating from the bevalac experiences it became clear that nuclear projectile energies in the range of 10 to 100 gev per nucleon would be required in fixed target experiments at synchrotrons , in order to reach , and surpass the predicted qcd phase boundary .",
    "clearly a task for synchrotron facilities such as the ps and sps of cern , and for the ags at brookhaven national laboratory .",
    "first research proposals were thus directed at these laboratories in the period from 1982 to 1986 .",
    "concurrently , however , more far - reaching concepts were first formulated , aiming at nucleus - nucleus collisions at much higher center of mass energies that could be reached by colliders .",
    "thus the idea was born to finish the construction of the temporarily abandoned superconducting isabelle collider project at brookhaven  @xcite which would reach up to ten times the center - of - mass ( cm ) energy per nucleon attainable at the cern sps .",
    "also the large hadron collider ( lhc ) at cern appeared already on the horizon which , equipped with nuclear projectiles would reach up in energy by yet a further factor of 25 .",
    "unlimited future research opportunities were coming into view , and there occurred another phase transition as the number of interested scientists jumped up by more than an order of magnitude , from the modest bevalac beginnings . and , in fact , all these projects did materialize in the following 30 years !",
    "nuclear collision experiments started taking data in 1986 at the cern sps , in 1994 really heavy nuclear projectiles like lead and gold ( @xmath3pb , @xmath4au ) became available at the sps , in 2001 at the newly built relativistic heavy ion collider , rhic at brookhaven , and in 2010 at the cern lhc collider .",
    "ever higher collisional energies and the accompanying relevant new physics observables have resulted in an overwhelming increase of experiment size , and complexity .",
    "we will turn below to a sketchy history of the corresponding physics ideas but wish , for now , to catch a typical glimpse at the developing dimensions of the experiments at cern . to this end",
    "we show in figure  [ spsna35 ] the layout of na35 , one of the first sps experiments , and confront it in figure  [ lhcalice ] with a sketch of the contemporary alice experiment at the lhc .",
    "the size of the international collaborations that have constructed these experiments , with significant help of cern work force and funding , went up from about a hundred to more than a thousand physicists .",
    "take the two experiments , illustrated above , for a typical example .",
    "na35 was planned from 1981 onwards , and took sps data from 1986 to 1992 .",
    "it was constructed by about 80 physicists .",
    "the plans for the alice experiment  @xcite at the lhc where first drafted in 1991 , to be continually improved within the course of a long construction period that significantly extended upon the initially proposed instrumental techniques , to take first data at the onset of lhc experiments at the end of 2009 .",
    "it united more than thousand physicists , and is planned to stay data taking for another decade , not to mention the to - be - expected final evaluation period .",
    "such experiments require an unprecedented span of continuous preservation of instrumental expertise , information storage integrity , and stability , over decades , of the intellectual pursuit of the scientific goals .",
    "this latter aspect of big science experiments is , perhaps , one of the most interesting sociological examples of human intellectual cooperation .            the most immediate consequence of the increase in collisional center of mass energy , from 17.3 gev at the sps to ( presently )",
    "2.76 tev at the lhc , is a rising number of created charged particles , from about 2000 to about 20000 .",
    "these need to be resolved by tracking in a magnetic field , thus measuring their momenta , by track curvature , and their ionization intensity in the gas , along the track .",
    "the modern detector of choice is the time projection chamber ( tpc ) , employed in sps na49 , in rhic star , and lhc alice .",
    "particle identification ( there are pions , kaons , protons , electrons , etc . ) is completed by an outer shell of detectors that measure each particles velocity .",
    "the tenfold rise in the number of charged particles produced in head - on collisions of lead nuclei requires a larger tracking volume , and a much higher readout granularity , in the alice experiment .",
    "moreover , the physics focus has shifted from sps to lhc where so - called hard qcd processes , like jet production , came into the center of attention .",
    "the involved high momentum hadrons , from tens to hundreds of gev / c , require higher tracking accuracy than the thermal hadrons in the former sps experiments .",
    "this resolution is proportional to @xmath5 with b the magnetic field strength and l the tracking length inside the field .",
    "the incredible complexity of the tracking tasks is also illustrated in figures  [ spsna35 ] and [ lhcalice ] .",
    "the former shows the track information in a single @xmath6s+au collision at the top sps energy , 200 gev per projectile nucleon , which is about 20 gev per nucleon pair in the center of mass frame .",
    "the figure shows the tracks in the na35 streamer chamber , a 3d photographically recorded gas detector .",
    "its somewhat archaic tracking technique was replaced 1994 by the time projection chamber ( tpc ) in the na49 experiment succeeding na35 .",
    "the yet far higher tracking effort at alice ( with 2.76 tev per nucleon pair center of mass energy collisions ) is illustrated in figure  [ lhcalice ] ; this tpc has over 600000 electronic channels , producing a raw data flux of about 20 gbyte per collision event .",
    "at 1 khz event frequency the tpc yields 20 tbytes per second of raw data , clearly at the upper end of today s digital electronics capacity .",
    "let us note right here that a multiplicity of several thousand hadrons does not imply a dull accumulation of more of the same : there are subtle forms of global structures in each event , caused by a hydrodynamic collective expansion of partonic and hadronic qcd matter .",
    "this gives specific momentum kicks to all particles which are small individually but can be well quantified if all particles of an event are recorded , exhaustively .",
    "furthermore , the very high multiplicity of charged particles , produced in a single event , results in a completely new phenomenon : the event originates from a single quantum mechanically coherent process but it can be individually analysed with statistical significance .",
    "single events become self - analysing .",
    "synchrotrons normally accelerate protons or electrons , as well as their antiparticles .",
    "the protons have a charge to mass ratio of q = 1 .",
    "stable nuclei have q = 0.5 up to calcium ( charge 20 , mass 40 ) , but exhibit an excess of neutrons over protons from there on such that q = 0.39 for @xmath3pb .",
    "the acceleration rate diminishes with lower q ; a proton synchrotron with 450 gev top proton energy ( the sps ) delivers pb beams of up to 175 gev per nucleon only , but stable acceleration modes can be accommodated .",
    "the problem is that the projectiles travel for about a million kilometres during acceleration , through the finite vacuum in the acceleration cavity .",
    "they will change their ionic charge state by stripping in the dilute gas , thus getting lost unless they are totally ionized already at injection , or if the vacuum is of extraordinary perfection . for proton acceleration",
    "this is of no concern , and thus synchrotrons tend to have a modest vacuum .",
    "they accept completely stripped ions only .",
    "the name heavy ion physics initially given to the field reflects the fact that fully stripped ions are needed , which can only be achieved in a complicated , multi - step pre - acceleration system . at its beginning a special ion source",
    "is required which delivers partially stripped ions out of an atomic plasma generated by strong electric and magnetic fields .",
    "it should give as high charge states as possible , and yet sufficient ionic current to be able to maintain beam stability in the subsequent synchrotrons , and to do experiments with sufficient event rate . during the early planning stage of cern heavy ion research , 1982 to 1985 , the preferred source type was the electron cyclotron resonance ( ecr ) source  @xcite .",
    "the first nuclear beams were oxygen in 1986 , a light nucleus , swiftly followed by sulphur in 1988 .",
    "a much more elaborate acceleration scheme was employed for lead ions in the sps that came into operation in 1994 . with some modifications",
    "it is still used today at the lhc .",
    "a new high power ecr source produced pb ions with charge states up to 20 + .",
    "after charge state analysis this beam was accepted by the tanks of a newly built linac which accelerated up to about 5 mev per nucleon . passing the beam through a thin stripper foil at the corresponding velocity",
    "produces a broad distribution of charge states around 50 + and the selection of a single charge state results in a 90% loss of beam intensity at this stage . now injecting into the first synchrotron , the so - called ps - booster",
    ", one loses another large fraction of the precious beam because the synchrotron gets injected ( at bottom field ) for a few tens of microseconds only , and then again at the next acceleration cycle .",
    "the booster vacuum was improved to @xmath7 torr to minimize charge state changes . at the energy of 150 mev per nucleon",
    "reached at extraction the pb ion can still not be fully stripped , and a further grave intensity loss would result from spreading over several charge states .",
    "thus the vacuum of the proton synchrotron ( ps ) , the next element in line , had also to be improved to @xmath7 torr , while still losing 50% of the beam .",
    "the ps then extracts pb(50 + ) at about 7 gev per nucleon ; stripping now produces fully ionized pb(82 + ) nuclei for sps injection .",
    "the ps has an acceleration cycle of one second duration whereas the sps requires more than 15 seconds at top energy .",
    "the accelerator scientists thus can employ a complicated multi - turn injection technique at this stage , the sps accommodating 4 successive ps extractions before its acceleration cavity is full of precisely positioned beam bunches ; and then acceleration begins .",
    "the fourfold intensity gain far outweighs the slightly lengthened overall cycle duration .",
    "a final sps energy of 158 gev per nucleon was adopted for lead projectiles .",
    "this outstanding facility could also accelerate all lighter elements compatible with the given ecr source technique , and operate over a wide range of energy , from about 15 to 160 gev / a .",
    "complete in 1994 it faced no competition worldwide until the turn - on of the brookhaven rhic collider , which offered about ten times higher energy in 2000 .      the first proposal  @xcite was submitted to cern in 1982 , by a gsi - lbl - heidelberg- marburg - warsaw collaboration of research groups established in nuclear physics , and concurrent bevalac or dubna synchrophasotron engagement .",
    "it called for the establishment of an extracted cern ps beam of oxygen where gsi would purchase an ecr source from the grenoble group of r. geller , and lbl would construct an rfq micro - linac , then to inject the existing linac1 of cern , followed by booster and ps , extracting at 13 gev / a .",
    "it was proposed to perform two parallel experiments , based on experience with two concurrent bevalac experiments , the multi - segmented scintillator plastic ball  @xcite and the visual tracking streamer chamber spectrometer  @xcite .",
    "the former would investigate hydrodynamic nuclear matter flow , the latter meson production with a look at phase transition signals .",
    "this initial proposal was accepted by cern ; however the accommodation of further experiments in the east hall ps extraction area met with substantial difficulty . of seminal consequence",
    "was then the suggestion  @xcite of cern management to transport the ps beam to the sps and distribute the resulting beams , at 200 gev / a , via the external sps beam line system to the then little used , huge experimental halls in the north and west of the sps , where the former sps proton beam experiments had been conducted .",
    "this idea catalysed the much more forward - looking idea of a full - fledged sps heavy ion acceleration program , with beam energies ranging up to 200 gev / a , which was enthusiastically welcomed as it also met with the intentions of several cern experiment groups to establish a continuation of the formerly abandoned initiatives toward heavy ion experiments at the cern isr collider .",
    "a wealth of established experimental infrastructure was available here and , most importantly , three intact experiments , with still existing physics collaborations , as well as technicians : the huge magnetic hadron spectrometer omega , the dilepton spectrometer from experiment na10 , and an almost complete streamer chamber plus calorimeter experiment , with a 400 ton superconducting dipole magnet , from experiments na5 and na24 .",
    "the turn to the sps really was a stroke of genius !",
    "the anticipated sps research program of cern attracted further groups from nuclear physics but also a fraction of the particle physics groups working at cern already .",
    "the omega spectrometer group reshaped as wa85 , the dilepton spectrometer as na38 , the streamer chamber experiment as na35 , the large calorimeter experiment na34 ( many of whose members were formerly engaged in a cern isr study of @xmath8he collisions - a precursor of the sps program  @xcite ) became na34 - 2 .",
    "the plastic ball spectrometer moved from lbl and was amended with lead glass electromagnetic calorimetry , to become wa80 .",
    "initially , only experiment na45 was completely newly constructed , a double cherenkov ( rich ) magnetic spectrometer for dielectron spectroscopy .",
    "the culminating part of the program was carried out from 1994 to 2002 , with lead nuclei , also including lower energies , 20 , 30 , 40 and 80 gev / a .",
    "this setup was reactivated in 2005 with indium ( @xmath9 in ) beams for na60 , a high precision charmonium and di - muon spectrometer constructed on the basis of former na38 and na50 , and with lead beams for na61 , a large acceptance hadron spectrometer based on na49 .",
    "we list below the experiments from the main lead beam program :    na44 small angle focusing magnetic spectrometer for antiprotons and kaons .",
    "na45 double cherenkov ring imaging magnetic spectrometer for di - electrons .",
    "na49 large acceptance tpc and calorimeter spectrometer for all hadrons .",
    "na50 magnetic di - muon spectrometer , em calorimeter , for vector mesons .",
    "na52 beam line spectrometer looking for strangelets .",
    "wa97/na57 hyperon and antihyperon spectrometer with si pixel technique , ex wa85 .    wa98 large acceptance hadron and photon spectrometer for direct photons .",
    "na60 and na61 followed later , as stated above .",
    "we shall briefly sketch below a ( subjective ) selection of seven physics observables , emerging from the sps program and representing the increasing understanding of qcd matter and qcd phases . in this section",
    "we have to ask the reader for some patience because we have to turn to a more detailed physics argumentation .",
    "the experiments addressed mostly to be or not to be questions .",
    "a quantitative description of the qcd plasma has resulted from the next following research era , at the colliders rhic at brookhaven and lhc at cern , as we will show at the end of this article .",
    "now let us take a closer look at the main topics of sps research .",
    "calorimeter experiments ( na34 , na49 , wa98 ) measured the total transversal energy produced in head - on collisions of two @xmath3pb nuclei  @xcite .",
    "central , head - on collisions fall into the tail of the distribution .",
    "here one has , on average , about 190 participating nucleon pairs from the initial target - projectile nuclear density distributions .",
    "so we know the collision geometry , the total initial energy in the cm system , and the newly created transversal energy . a formula derived by bjorken  @xcite provides for an estimate of the corresponding energy density in the primordial fireball volume . in the present case it results in 3.0+/-0.6 gev per cubic fermi . comparing to a year 2000 view of the parton - hadron phase transition from lattice qcd",
    "@xcite one finds that we are just above the phase transition at this energy density , and that the critical qcd energy density is about 1 gev per cubic fermi      lattice qcd also gives a plasma temperature estimate , prevailing at 3 gev/@xmath1 energy density , of t = 210 mev .",
    "the photons from thermal plasma radiation should escape from the fireball unaffected because they lack strong interaction .",
    "a first measurement  @xcite was undertaken by wa98 of the so - called direct photons , which result from a meticulous subtraction of the trivial photon fraction resulting from electromagnetic decay of neutral mesons , that occurs much later .",
    "these data can be described@xcite with a plasma temperature in the 200 -250 mev domain , in accord with the lattice qcd temperature estimate given above .",
    "if a primordial qcd parton plasma is formed in central pb+pb collisions at top sps energy , subsequent expansive cooling will bring the fireball volume back down to the qcd parton - hadron phase boundary , where confinement enforces hadron formation .",
    "if a critical qcd hadronisation temperature uniformly governs the fireball volume the various hadronic species will be simultaneously produced in proportion to their so - called statistical weights , a universal law that was discovered by e. fermi and carries the name fermi s golden rule. this is articulated in the statistical hadronisation model ( shm ) which predicts a universal yield order among the produced hadrons , with just only one essential parameter : the temperature t prevailing at birth of the hadronic final state  @xcite .",
    "hadron multiplicity distributions were systematically measured by na44 , na49 and wa 57 . figure  [ lhcrsfig11 ] shows an example  @xcite of a shm fit to hadron multiplicities per collision event , observed at top sps energy by na49 in central pb+pb collisions .",
    "it gives a hadronisation temperature of t = 158 @xmath10 5 mev , in close agreement with the critical temperature t@xmath2 predicted by lattice qcd . at this low temperature",
    "we are very far away from qcd asymptotic freedom  @xcite . the transition from deconfined to confined qcd matter",
    "must be driven by other , genuinely non - perturbative qcd mechanisms .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     jet quenching was discovered at rhic not with jets , which are difficult to measure in the high multiplicity heavy ion background environment , but as a suppression of high @xmath11  leading jet - fragments .",
    "the effect was experimentally very clean and significant with suppression factors up to five .",
    "the high energy of lhc and the correspondingly large cross sections for hard processes make high energy jets easily stand out from the background even in central nuclear collisions(fig .",
    "[ lhcatlasjet ] ) .",
    "jet quenching is therefore readily recognized and measured , with many unbalanced dijets or even monojets apparent in the data  @xcite .",
    "while the amount of energy lost in the medium can be of the order of tens of gev and therefore even on average corresponds to a sizeable fraction of the total jet energy , it is nevertheless close to the one expected when extrapolating rhic results to the higher density matter at lhc .",
    "the two jets remain essentially back - to - back ( little or no angular broadening relative to pp ) and the radiated energy ( @xmath12 ) is found in very low @xmath11  particles ( @xmath13 gev/@xmath14 ) and at large angles to the jet direction  @xcite .",
    "the latter two findings were initially a surprise , but are now incorporated naturally into models where the energy is lost in multiple , soft scatterings , and the radiated gluons are emitted at large angles .",
    "the parton then leaves the matter and undergoes normal vacuum fragmentation , i.e. looking like a normal @xmath15 jet but with a reduced energy .    additional insight into",
    "the energy loss process has come from heavy flavours  @xcite .",
    "the suppression of charm mesons is virtually identical to the one of inclusive charged particles ; a result which was counterintuitive and initially confusing .",
    "the similarity in the energy loss of gluons ( the source of the majority of charged particles ) and heavy quarks is now understood as an accidental cancellation between the difference in coupling strength ( colour charge ) of quarks and gluons and their different fragmentation functions .",
    "the mass effect however seems to be as predicted : at intermediate @xmath11 , beauty shows less suppression than charm , whereas at very high @xmath11b - jets and inclusive jets show similar modifications .",
    "while the anomalous @xmath16 suppression discovered at the sps was considered one of the strongest indications for the qgp , the rhic results showed essentially the same suppression at a much higher energy , contrary to most expectations and predictions from both qgp and non - qgp models .",
    "these initially very confusing results kept the interpretation of this most direct signal for deconfinement ambiguous for the last 10 years .    it had been suggested that j/@xmath17  suppression actually increases with energy ( i.e. from sps to rhic ) , but is more or less balanced by a new production mechanism : upon reaching the parton - hadron phase boundary two independently produced charm quarks from the plasma hadronize along with the lighter quarks , forming j / psi  @xcite . and",
    "indeed , lhc data seems to have resolved the j/@xmath17  puzzle in favour of this coalescence picture  @xcite : as predicted , the large charm cross section at lhc leads to _ less _",
    "j/@xmath17  suppression at lhc compared to rhic ( fig .",
    "[ lhcjpsiraa ] ) .",
    "the suppression is also less strong at low @xmath11 , where phase space favours recombination , in clear contrast to the opposite @xmath11  dependence found at sps and rhic .",
    "while at first sight charm quark coalescence may appear as yet another process complicating and masking quarkonium deconfinement , it is actually a respectable and important deconfinement signal in itself : only in a colour conducting , deconfining medium can quarks roam freely over large distances ( @xmath18 1 fm ) , and this is exactly what two charm quarks have to do in order to combine during hadronisation .    the magnitude of the suppression for different quarkonium states should depend on their binding energy , with strongly bound states such as the @xmath19 showing less or no modification .",
    "lhc results for the @xmath19 family  @xcite are fully consistent with the expectation for a deconfining hot medium in which quarkonia survival decreases with binding energy , i.e. in terms of suppression factors : @xmath19(3s ) @xmath20 @xmath19(2s ) @xmath20 @xmath19(1s ) .",
    "the @xmath19(1s ) is suppressed by about a factor of two in central collisions , the @xmath19(2s ) by almost an order of magnitude , and only upper limits have been measured for the @xmath19(3s ) .",
    "as only about 50% of the observed @xmath19(1s ) are directly produced , these results may be compatible with almost complete melting of all high mass bottonium states and survival of a lone , strongly bound @xmath19(1s ) , which according to lattice qcd may melt only at temperatures far above the critical temperature .      the first discovery made at lhc was announced  @xcite in sept .",
    "2010 on a subject which was as unlikely as it was unfamiliar to most in the packed audience : the cms experiment had found a mysterious long range rapidity correlation in a tiny subset of extremely high multiplicity @xmath15 collisions at 7 tev  @xcite . the correlation in rapidity @xmath21 and azimuthal angle @xmath22 between all pairs of particles of intermediate @xmath11  ( @xmath23 gev/@xmath14 ) in pp collisions is shown in fig .",
    "[ lhccmsridge ] left .",
    "besides the so called near side peak at ( 0,0 , ) , a feature arising from particle correlations within jets , and the away side ridge at @xmath24 in azimuth , where the two particles come - one each - from the members of a pair of back - to - back jets , the correlation structure shows a small but significant second ridge also at @xmath25 . while in the meantime far eclipsed by the discovery of a higgs particle",
    ", this near side ridge is arguably still the most unexpected lhc discovery to date and spawned a large variety of different explanations  @xcite .",
    "the most serious contenders are saturation physics , as formulated in the colour glass condensate model ( cgc )  @xcite , and collective hydrodynamic flow .",
    "hydrodynamics is of course a very successful framework to describe long range correlations in the macroscopic hot matter created in heavy ion reactions , but was not supposed to be applicable in small systems like @xmath15 collisions , where typically only a few ten particles are produced per unit of rapidity .",
    "the cgc is a first principles classical field theory approximation to qcd which is applicable to very dense ( high occupation number ) parton systems like those found at small - x and small @xmath26 in the initial state wave function of hadrons .",
    "it has been successfully used to describe some regularities seen e.g. in ep collisions at hera ( geometric scaling ) and to model the initial conditions in heavy ion physics .     for high multiplicity pp collisions  @xcite ( left ) and",
    "ppb collisions  @xcite(right).,scaledwidth=100.0% ]    lacking further experimental input , no real progress was made to unravel the origin of these long range @xmath15 correlations until the ridge made a robust come - back with the first lhc proton - nucleus run some two years later  @xcite ( fig .",
    "[ lhccmsridge ] right , p - pb at @xmath27 tev ) .",
    "the correlation strength was actually significantly stronger than in @xmath15 at the same multiplicity , and in quick succession it was discovered that  @xcite : the ridge was actually double - sided , showing correlations between particles both close by in azimuth as well as back - to - back ; a fourier analysis revealed both even ( @xmath28 ) as well as odd ( @xmath29 ) components ; the dependence of the correlation strength on particle mass was virtually identical to the one expected from hydrodynamic flow ; and finally the correlation strength measured with multi - particle methods was almost identical to the one measured with two particles only , convincingly demonstrating that the ridge is a true collective effect which involves _ all _ low energy particles in _ every _ event ( in contrast to e.g. jet correlations , which involve only a _",
    "particles in _ some _ events ) .",
    "all characteristics of the p - pb ridge are very natural for and in good agreement with a hydrodynamic collective flow origin of the correlation .",
    "even the strength of the signal and its multiplicity dependence are of the correct order of magnitude ( within a factor of two ) if one uses some reasonable geometrical initial conditions and a standard hydro model and just _ postulates _ that the tiny and very short - lived interacting matter system , some 1 fm in size and lifetime , behaves like a macroscopic ideal fluid .",
    "note that the matter created in central pb - pb collisions has a size of the order of 5000 @xmath1 and therefore is larger by orders of magnitude !    the question how such a tiny ( few @xmath1 ) system could thermalize in essentially no time ,",
    "maybe even become a small droplet of sqgp , has kept the case open , despite what looks like convincing evidence , including very recent and spectacular confirmation of the ridge effect at rhic using elliptical deuteron projectiles and triangular @xmath30he nuclei .    in any case",
    ", the ridge discovery in @xmath15 and @xmath31 at lhc is definitely more than a curiosity and likely to have profound implications for heavy ion physics .",
    "if a sqgp ( like ) state can be created and studied in much smaller systems than anticipated , we can compare @xmath32 , and @xmath33 to look for finite size effects , which may reveal information on correlation lengths and relaxation time scales not otherwise easily available .",
    "if , on the contrary , initial state effects and saturation physics are the answer , we would have discovered at lhc yet another new state of matter , the colour glass condensate , opening a rich new field of activity for both experiment and theory .",
    "cern has been an essential player and ( mostly ) unwavering supporter in the genesis and advance of high energy heavy ion physics . in the incredibly short time span of little over 30 years",
    ", the study of the phases of nuclear matter has evolved from light ion reactions at a fixed target energy of some gev / nucleon to using heavy projectiles at a center - of - mass energy of several tev / nucleon , increasing the available energy by three orders of magnitude  @xcite .",
    "this rapid progress was of course only possible by reusing machines , and initially even detectors , built over a longer time scale for particle physics . today , with more than 2000 physicists active worldwide in this field",
    ", ultra - relativistic heavy ion physics has moved in less than a generation from the periphery into a central activity of contemporary nuclear physics . from the early exploratory phase , with sometimes more qualitative than quantitative results and conclusions ,",
    "the field has grown up and matured , making important and often unexpected discoveries at each new facility .",
    "the view of the quark - gluon plasma has dramatically advanced , from a simple weakly interacting parton gas to a strongly interacting ideal fluid that might find a field theoretical description in a so - called `` dual '' , string theoretical framework  @xcite .    today , at its height , heavy ion physics has found interest well beyond the circle of its immediate practitioners , with links and cross fertilisation towards neighbouring disciplines ranging from plasma physics to string theory .",
    "the heavy ion program is very active and competitive today at both high and low energy , to map the phase diagram , locate the transition between normal matter and the sqgp , and to search for a conjectured tri - critical point somewhere in the region at or below sps fixed target energy .",
    "two new low energy facilities ( fair at gsi and nica at jinr ) are being built to study compressed matter , i.e. matter at high baryon density and ( comparatively ) low temperature where the phase structure may be quite different ( @xmath34 order phase transition ) and the matter is closer related to neutron stars than to the early universe .",
    "the lhc however is and will be the energy frontier facility not only of high energy physics but also of nuclear physics for the foreseeable future , with a well - defined and extensive program and wish list of measurements . and",
    "if the first three years can be a guide , strong interaction physics , while firmly rooted in the standard model , has shown no end to surprises and discoveries and promises to keep physics with heavy ions interesting ( and fun ) for quite some time to come .",
    "e.  v.  shuryak , phys .",
    "* 61 * ( 1980 ) 71 ; sov .",
    "jetp * 47 * , 212 ( 1978 ) g.  baym and s.  a.  chin , phys .",
    "b * 62 * ( 1976 ) 241 .",
    "j.  i.  kapusta , nucl .",
    "b * 148 * , 461 ( 1979 ) .",
    "j.  c.  collins and m.  j.  perry , phys .",
    "* 34 * ( 1975 ) 1353 .",
    "d.  j.  gross and f.  wilczek , phys .",
    "lett .  * 30 * ( 1973 ) 1343 . s.  a.  gottlieb , w.  liu , d.  toussaint , r.  l.  renken and r.  l.  sugar , phys .",
    "d * 35 * ( 1987 ) 2531 .",
    "g.  baym , nucl .",
    "a * 418 * ( 1984 ) 433c .",
    "`` rhic and quark matter .",
    "proposal for a relativistic heavy ion collider at brookhaven national laboratory , '' bnl-51801 . c.  fabjan and j.  schukraft ,  the large hadron collider : a marvel technology \" , epfl - press lausanne , switzerland , 2009 ( editor : l. evans ) , chapter 5.4 arxiv:1101.1257 .",
    "r.  geller and b.  jacquot , nucl .",
    "instrum .",
    "meth .  * 184 * ( 1981 ) 293 .",
    "r.  stock _ et al . _ [ gsi - lbl - heidelberg - marburg - warsaw- collaboration ] , in * bielefeld 1982 , proceedings , quark matter formation and heavy ion collisions * , 557 - 582    a.  r.  baden _ et al .",
    "_ [ gsi - lbl collaboration ] , nucl .",
    "instrum .",
    "* 203 * ( 1982 ) 189 .",
    "a.  sandoval , r.  bock , r.  brockmann , a.  dacal , j.  w.  harris , m.  maier , m.  e.  ortiz and h.  g.  pugh _ et al .",
    "_ , nucl .",
    "a * 400 * ( 1983 ) 365c .",
    "r.  klapisch , nucl .",
    "a * 418 * ( 1984 ) 347c .",
    "h.  g.  fischer , in * darmstadt 1980 , proceedings , future relativistic heavy ion experiments * , 528 - 550 ; w.  j.  willis , ibidem p.499    t.  alber _ et al . _ [ na49 collaboration ] , phys .",
    "* 75 * ( 1995 ) 3814 .",
    "j.  d.  bjorken , phys .",
    "d * 27 * ( 1983 ) 140 .",
    "s.  hands , contemp .",
    "* 42 * ( 2001 ) 209 [ physics/0105022 [ physics.ed-ph ] ] . m.  m.  aggarwal _ et al .",
    "_ [ wa98 collaboration ] , phys .  rev .",
    "* 85 * ( 2000 ) 3595 [ nucl - ex/0006008 ] .",
    "d.  k.  srivastava and b.  sinha , phys .",
    "c * 64 * ( 2001 ) 034902 [ nucl - th/0006018 ] ; p.  huovinen , p.  v.  ruuskanen and s.  s.  rasanen , phys .",
    "b * 535 * ( 2002 ) 109 [ nucl - th/0111052 ] .",
    "p.  braun - munzinger , k.  redlich and j.  stachel , in * hwa , r.c .",
    "et al . : quark gluon plasma * 491 - 599 [ nucl - th/0304013 ] .",
    "f.  becattini , m.  gazdzicki , a.  keranen , j.  manninen and r.  stock , phys .",
    "c * 69 * ( 2004 ) 024905 [ hep - ph/0310049 ] .",
    "a.  dainese [ na57 collaboration ] , nucl .",
    "phys .  a * 774 * ( 2006 ) 51 [ nucl - ex/0510001 ] .",
    "t.  matsui and h.  satz , phys .  lett .",
    "b * 178 * ( 1986 ) 416 .",
    "m.  c.  abreu _ et al .",
    "_ [ na50 collaboration ] , phys .",
    "b * 477 * ( 2000 ) 28 .",
    "u.  w.  heinz and m.  jacob , `` evidence for a new state of matter : an assessment of the results from the cern lead beam program , '' nucl - th/0002042 .",
    "http://press.web.cern.ch/press-releases/2000/02/new-state-matter-created-cern .",
    "j.  schukraft , phil .",
    "a * 370 * ( 2012 ) 917 , arxiv:1109.4291 .",
    "n.  armesto _ et al .",
    "_ , `` heavy ion collisions at the lhc - last call for predictions , '' j.  phys .",
    "g * 35 * ( 2008 ) 054001 , arxiv:0711.0974 .",
    "b.  muller , j.  schukraft and b.  wyslouch , ann .",
    "nucl .  part .",
    "* 62 * ( 2012 ) 361 , arxiv:1202.3233 .",
    "j.  schukraft , phys .",
    "scripta t * 158 * , 014003 ( 2013 ) , arxiv:1311.1429 .",
    "y.  schutz and u.  a.  wiedemann , `` proceedings , 22nd international conference on ultra - relativistic nucleus - nucleus collisions , quark matter 2011 , annecy , france , may 23 - 28 , 2011 , '' j.  phys .",
    "g * 38 * ( 2011 ) 120301 .",
    "s.  chatrchyan _ et al .",
    "_ [ cms collaboration ] , phys .",
    "c * 84 * ( 2011 ) 024906 , arxiv:1102.1957 .",
    "t.  renk , j.  phys .",
    "* 509 * ( 2014 ) 012022 , arxiv:1309.3059 .",
    "a.  dainese , j.  phys .",
    "* 446 * ( 2013 ) 012034 .",
    "p.  braun - munzinger and j.  stachel , `` charmonium from statistical hadronization of heavy quarks : a probe for deconfinement in the quark - gluon plasma , '' arxiv:0901.2500 . b.  abelev _ et al . _",
    "[ alice collaboration ] , phys .",
    "* 109 * ( 2012 ) 072301 , arxiv:1202.1383 .",
    "f.  gelis , e.  iancu , j.  jalilian - marian and r.  venugopalan , ann .",
    "nucl .  part .",
    "* 60 * ( 2010 ) 463 arxiv:1002.0333 .",
    "v.  khachatryan _ et al . _",
    "[ cms collaboration ] , jhep * 1009 * ( 2010 ) 091 , arxiv:1009.4122 .",
    "w.  li , mod .",
    "a * 27 * ( 2012 ) 1230018 , arxiv:1206.0148 .",
    "s.  chatrchyan _ et al . _",
    "[ cms collaboration ] , phys .",
    "b * 718 * ( 2013 ) 795 arxiv:1210.5482 . c.  loizides , epj web conf .",
    "* 60 * ( 2013 ) 06004 , arxiv:1308.1377 .",
    "j.  schukraft , `` the future of high energy nuclear physics in europe , '' nucl - ex/0602014 .",
    "j.  casalderrey - solana , h.  liu , d.  mateos , k.  rajagopal and u.  a.  wiedemann , arxiv:1101.0618 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> strongly interacting matter as described by the thermodynamics of qcd undergoes a phase transition , from a low temperature hadronic medium to a high temperature quark - gluon plasma state . in the early universe this transition occurred during the early microsecond era . </S>",
    "<S> it can be investigated in the laboratory , in collisions of nuclei at relativistic energy , which create `` fireballs '' of sufficient energy density to cross the qcd phase boundary . </S>",
    "<S> we describe 3 decades of work at cern , devoted to the study of the qcd plasma and the phase transition . from modest beginnings at the sps , </S>",
    "<S> ultra - relativistic heavy ion physics has evolved today into a central pillar of contemporary nuclear physics and forms a significant part of the lhc program .    </S>",
    "<S> jrgen schukraft    reinhard stock </S>"
  ]
}