{
  "article_text": [
    "planetary nebula ( pn ) sh2 - 71 ( pn g035.9 - 01.1 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 j2000 ) , see fig .  1 , was discovered by @xcite who classified it as a diffuse and peculiar nebulosity . in 1959",
    "the second sharpless catalogue of emission nebulae listed the object as a possible pn @xcite .",
    "modern catalogues classify the object as a true pn @xcite .",
    "the first extensive photometric observations of the variable 13.5-mag apparent central star of sh2 - 71 were performed by @xcite between 1977 and 1979 .",
    "@xcite reported brightness variability of more than 0.7  mag with indications of a smooth sine - like lightcurve .",
    "he also used the star s colour indices to initially classify the star as a b8v and noted that the spectral type b8v can not be responsible for the observed high excitation in the surrounding pn .",
    "therefore , he suggested that the central star is a binary system in which the secondary star is hot enough to ionize the nebula .",
    "the largest photometric study to date was presented by @xcite .",
    "they obtained 2,004 photometric measurements in _ v _ , _ _ r__@xmath5 and _ _ i__@xmath5 band , and combined them with existing photometric data from @xcite and @xcite . from the combined 4,268 measurements , spanning over 28 years , they identified the brightness variations to be a quasi - sinusoidal lightcurve with a period of @xmath6 days , and that the lightcurve minima flatten occasionally .",
    "@xcite also noted pronounced spectral variations between two spectra , taken at different brightness phases .    a detailed model for the central star as the progenitor of the collimated bipolar nebula",
    "was suggested by @xcite . primarily based on their four slit spectra covering both star and nebula and taken on two consecutive nights they suggested that the central star is a close binary system in which the material is being transferred from the main - sequence star to an ionising star .",
    "they further speculated that the material expelled through the second lagrangian point creates the circumstellar disc , which collimates the fast stellar wind into a bipolar shape .",
    "based on synthetic composite spectra , @xcite determined the spectral type of the cooler , brighter component to f0v - a7v and estimated the effective temperature of the ionising star to be 10 ^ 5^  k. to date , there is no direct evidence for a hot , ionising binary component .    although the variable 13.5-mag star has historically been identified as the central star ( star cs1 in fig",
    ".  1 ) , @xcite , have suggested however that a nearby , much dimmer and bluer , 19-mag star may be the true central star ( star cs2 in fig .  1 ) .",
    "@xcite have concluded that there is insufficient evidence either way to give a definitive identification of the true central star .    in this paper",
    "we present our imaging of the nebula and challenge the alternative suggestion for the central star .",
    "furthermore , we present our analysis of new photometric and spectroscopic observations , coupled with some archived and yet unpublished spectroscopic datasets . from these observations",
    "we derive several new parameters of the brighter central star candidate and refine certain previously determined properties .",
    "we suggest a new model for the central star candidate in order to establish a link between the observed properties and the collimated bipolar shape of the pn .",
    "we have imaged sh2 - 71 in broad- ( sloan r , 3@xmath730  s ) and two different narrowband filters ( h@xmath8 and [ oiii ] , both 3@xmath7120  s ) on 2013 october 21 with the wide field camera ( wfc ) , which is mounted on the 2.5-m isaac newton telescope ( int ) on la palma in the canary islands .",
    "the images were processed in the usual way using theli , fits liberator and matlab to produce the rgb image shown in fig .  1 .",
    "the three photometric datasets of the @xmath113.5-mag central star candidate cs1 , presented in this paper , were obtained with the 0.8-m telescope at byrne observatory at sedgwick ( bos ) in california , the 2-m faulkes telescope south ( fts ) in siding spring , australia , and fts s twin telescope , the 2-m liverpool telescope ( lt ) on la palma .",
    "observational details are listed in table  1 .",
    "all three photometric datasets have been bias subtracted and flat field corrected by the automatic pipelines , provided by the individual observatories . combining the lt images and differential aperture photometry",
    "were carried out using the starlink application packages ccdpack and photom .",
    "the non - variable comparison star , which was present in every image and yielded the highest signal to noise ratios of the measured differential magnitudes for cs1 in fts and lt datasets , is shown in fig .  1 as comparison star number 1 . because the bos images were obtained with much longer exposure times compared to fts and lt",
    ", the comparison star number 1 lay outside the linear range of the ccd s full well capacity for some of the bos images .",
    "thus , the bos differential photometry was measured with a fainter comparison star which is labelled as comparison star number 2 in fig .  1 .",
    "the differential photometry was performed using circular photometric apertures and annulus sky subtraction .",
    "the aperture radii were set to be equal to one average stellar full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) as measured for a set of five most suitable stars in each image .",
    "sky annulus was placed between two and three fwhm from the stellar centres .",
    "this photometric configuration was found to maximize the signal to noise ratios of the differential magnitudes .",
    "we were only able to measure the differential photometry for cs1 ; cs2 was too faint to be detectable in the fts and lt datasets and below the 5-sigma detection limit for the majority of the images in the bos dataset .",
    "the log of the final differential magnitudes for cs1 is given in online appendix in tables  1.1 - 1.5 .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "our rgb image of sh2 - 71 is shown in fig .  1 .",
    "as noted in the introduction , the bright star cs1 , historically believed to be the central star of sh2 - 71 , is not hot enough to ionise the nebula .",
    "this led @xcite to propose that the faint ( @xmath9 mag ) blue star , offset 7  arcsec nw of cs1 and identified here as cs2 , may be the true central star . they claim that the measured brightness of cs2 corresponds to the expected luminosity of the progenitor s remnant at the nebula s distance of 1  kpc .",
    "in addition , @xcite note that cs2 is also closer to the apparent geometric centre of the nebula , whereas cs1 is slightly offset from the centre .",
    "the wfc images of the nebula have been used to investigate the nebular features close to the centre of the nebula to try to find evidence as to which star is the true central star of the pn .",
    "the central position of cs2 favours its identification as the central star , although several other pne have been discovered to possess off - centre central stars @xcite .",
    "however , the somewhat symmetrical nebular structure about a line eastwards from cs1 may suggest a physical link to this star . furthermore , since the most likely collimating mechanism for the bipolar shape of a pn is a binary central star @xcite , the progenitor star of the bipolar pn sh2 - 71 is expected to have a companion star which would provide additional brightness contribution .",
    "thus , a brighter central star candidate , cs1 , seems a more plausible choice for a binary central star hypothesis . in such a case",
    ", cs1 would comprise a hot ionising component and a cooler , optically brighter companion which would dominate the observed optical flux , effectively hiding the hot ionising companion .",
    "a similar binary system has been identified as the central stellar system of another bipolar pn , ngc  2346 ( @xcite , also see subsection 4.2 ) . finally , the reported mean rv of the pn and measured mean stellar rv of cs1 are very similar ( see subsection 3.3.3 ) , as would be expected for a central star and its planetary nebula , although as yet there is no rv measurements for cs2 .",
    "thus cs1 remains a reasonable candidate for the central star at this stage .",
    "the complete detailed photometric analysis is presented in @xcite . in this paper",
    "the main photometric results are summarised in fig .  2 , which shows a set of four individual lightcurves obtained from three different telescopes .",
    "the bos _ b _ , fts _ v _ and lt _ v _ datasets are used to reveal the shape of the lightcurve , whereas the overlay between lt _ v _ and lt _ u _ illustrates the difference in axes scaling between differential magnitudes @xmath10 and @xmath11 , which can be used to estimate the reddening effect .",
    "inconsistencies in the filters used and the available comparison stars for each image make it difficult to compare these photometric measurements directly . here",
    ", the bos data have been obtained using comparison star 2 ( see fig .  1 ) and the fts and lt data",
    "have been obtained using comparison star 1 .",
    "thus the fts and lt datasets are directly comparable , however , the bos differential magnitudes had to be offset .",
    "2 also shows the predicted lightcurve given by @xcite .",
    "first of all , we can see from fig .  2 that the combined lightcurve is in rough agreement with the period and phase reported by @xcite ( jd@xmath12 ) .",
    "the comparison confirms that the photometric nature of cs1 has remained the same since the last mikulek s observation in 2002 .",
    "the disagreement between the observed and predicted decreasing part of the lightcurve is most likely due to the current deviation of the lightcuve s shape from the assumed sinusoidal brightness variations .",
    "secondly , several sharp dips can be seen in the lightcurve .",
    "these are significantly larger than the uncertainties of individual data points but much smaller than the almost 1-mag peak - to - peak variation in the overall lightcurve .",
    "attempts at a formal periodic analysis @xcite were unsuccessful due to insufficient data .",
    "however , a simple visual fit of these dips , made by trying various periods and epochs , revealed that the five most pronounced brightness dips can be characterised as periodic with a period of 17.2@xmath20.1 days .",
    "the overlap between the brightness dips and best - fit epoch and period is illustrated with the periodic vertical lines in fig .",
    "such a potentially periodic behaviour points to the intriguing possibility of an eclipsing binary system , however , many more data points would be required for a more reliable and accurate analysis of these possibly periodic brightness dips .",
    "lastly , the difference between the axes scales for lt _ v _ and _ u _ filter in fig .",
    "2 reveals that the brightness variation amplitude is larger for _ u _ filter and therefore that the central star exhibits a variable reddening effect along with the brightness variations .",
    "the variable component of reddening effect was estimated to be @xmath0 .",
    "on the other hand , @xmath13 could not be estimated reliably because bos _ b _ lightcurve did not chronologically overlap with any other photometric dataset , and because of insufficient number of data points in fts _",
    "b _ dataset .        fig .",
    "3 shows two fully reduced and normalized spectra of the observed star near the h@xmath14 line , obtained with the lt at different phases of the 68-day lightcurve . pronounced spectral variations of the emission components of balmer and singly ionised metal line profiles confirm the variations , reported by @xcite .",
    "however , in contrast to mikulek s reporting we did not notice pronounced [ oiii ] lines in any of the retrieved spectral datasets .",
    "possibly the spectra analysed by @xcite were contaminated by the nebular [ oiii ] line .",
    "we employed a dataset of 25 archived int slit spectra to provide the most accurate verification to date if the spectral variations are correlated to 68-days brightness variations .",
    "for each of the reduced and normalized spectrum we have calculated the corresponding brightness phase from the ephemeris , published by @xcite .",
    "normalized int spectra , arranged according to their calculated brightness phase , are shown in fig .",
    "4 .    in contrary to expressed expectations in the previous papers related to sh2 - 71 , fig .",
    "4 demonstrates that the spectral variations are not correlated with 68-days brightness variations . due to a large chronological spread of the archived int spectra we were unable to determine any other potential period in the spectral variability .",
    "for this task the spectra would have to be obtained with a higher cadence , preferably with a daily cadence . on the other hand ,",
    "9 high - resolution echelle spectra from the aat with a cadence of 30 minutes did not reveal any noticeable spectral variations in the time - span of 4.5 hours ( see fig .",
    "the presence of the spectral variations in the lt and int datasets and their absence in the aat dataset imply that the spectral variations must occur on a time - scale of a few days .",
    "we compared the measured spectra of the central star candidate cs1 with synthetic spectra , computed by @xcite .",
    "the best - fitted stellar atmospheric parameters were determined to be _ _",
    "t__@xmath15 1100013000  k , @xmath16 @xmath17  cm  s^-2^ , @xmath18 @xmath19  km  s^-1^ with an indicated high value of metallicity .",
    "these parameters classify the observed star as a b9b7 main - sequence star .",
    "the further comparison to standard spectra , provided by @xcite , confirmed a late b main - sequence spectral type .",
    "the comparisons and details regarding the synthetic and standard spectra are presented in online appendix and @xcite .",
    "our @xmath1b8v spectral type classification of cs1 is in agreement with earlier b8v classification by @xcite , who determined the spectral type by colour indices . on the other hand ,",
    "our @xmath1b8v classification refutes the spectral type a7v - f0v by @xcite who were using slit spectra in the wavelength range 60007400   .",
    "they noted , however , the presence of siii lines ( 6347 and 6371   ) in their spectra , which correspond to stars with temperatures higher than a7v . the spectral wavelength range , covered by this project s int spectra , has revealed many more spectral features that can not be explained with an a7v star , such as the presence of siii lines ( 3856 and 3863   ) , hei ( 4026 and 4471   ) and absence of mni ( 4033   ) , cai ( 4227   ) and tiii ( 4468   ) .",
    "the synthetic spectra fitting and comparison with the standard spectra provide strong evidence that the spectral type of the central star candidate cs1 is @xmath1b8v .      radial velocities ( rvs ) of cs1 in the int and aat datasets have been measured in two steps .",
    "first , we measured the relative rvs with respect to the first spectrum in each of the two datasets .",
    "for the int dataset we used the starlink tool hcross , the template int spectrum of cs1 from 1996 jul 10 and a cross - correlation wavelength range 39604600   .",
    "for the aat dataset we used the iraf tool fxcor , template aat spectrum of cs1 with mid - exposure time 15:22:20 ut and a cross - correlation wavelength range 40005000   .",
    "additional binning was not applied to either of the two datasets .",
    "the second step was to convert relative rvs into absolute values .",
    "this was done for both datasets by measuring the wavelength of mgii 4481   , which has been identified as the most stable and suitable individual spectral line for measuring rvs in our spectra .",
    "the final absolute heliocentric rvs for the int and aat datasets are listed in online appendix in tables 2.1 and 2.2 , respectively .",
    "our int rv measurements revealed that the mean rv of the central star candidate cs1 is @xmath126  km  s^-1^ and that rv varies with an amplitude of @xmath240  km  s^-1^ ( see top panel in fig .",
    "due to the large spread in observation time of our int spectra , we were unable to determine the period of a potential periodicity of the rv variations ( see bottom panel in fig .",
    "6 ) . however , the cadence and the number of data points were sufficient to reject any correlation with the 68-days brightness variations ( see middle panel in fig .  6 ) .",
    "in addition , because of the absence of rv variations in aat spectra with 30-minutes cadence ( see table 2.2 in online appendix ) we also rejected hourly time - scales for a potential rv periodicity .    as discussed in subsection  3.1 , some researchers have suggested that cs1 , the star observed and presented in this paper , is actually not the central star of the pn ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "however , a useful result , derived from our rv analysis , is that the mean rv of the observed star , @xmath126  km  s^-1^ , is in near agreement with the reported mean rv of the pn , 24.7  km  s^-1^ @xcite , as would be expected for a central star and its surrounding pn .",
    "we note that the rv of the much dimmer 19-magnitude cs2 , an alternative candidate for the central star , is as yet unknown .",
    "the cataclysmic binary model , suggested by @xcite , provides a plausible explanation for the observed h@xmath8 spectral line profiles as well as for the bipolar shape of the pn .",
    "however , a small separation between the stars , required for mass transfer to establish between a b8v and an ionising star , would correspond to an orbital period of less than 1.0 day .",
    "this would cause the rv of balmer emission components to vary with @xmath20250@xmath21  km  s^-1^. our set of aat spectra did not reveal any noticeable spectral line profile or rv variations of balmer emission lines in the 4.5-hour time - span which demonstrates that the cataclysmic binary model is highly unlikely .",
    "in addition , this model does not provide a plausible explanation for the 68-days brightness variation period .",
    "our analysis of several potential models revealed that the observed spectrophotometric properties of cs1 are best reproduced with a close be binary system with a misaligned precessing circumstellar disc .",
    "other models such as herbig be stars , magnetically warped circumstellar discs , stellar pulsations etc . are discussed in @xcite .",
    "first of all , near edge - on rotating circumstellar discs around be stars produce profiles of balmer and singly ionised metal spectral lines similar to ones observed in our spectra .",
    "@xcite provided the relation between the full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) of the balmer lines and the stellar rotational velocity .",
    "our observed mean fwhm of h@xmath8 ( 9.3   ) and h@xmath14 ( 5.7   ) emission profiles yield a stellar rotational velocity of @xmath1270  km  s^-1^ , which is in rough agreement with the measured rotational velocity of the central star ( @xmath19  km  s^-1^ , see subsection 3.3.2 ) .",
    "secondly , the observed spectral variability can be explained by various contributing factors , which have been reported for a significant fraction of be stars , e.g. variable wind absorption , nonradial stellar pulsations , starspots , magnetically modulated circumstellar rotation , etc .",
    "( @xcite , @xcite ) . in a close",
    "be binary system we might also expect to see the periodic spectral and rv variations arising from the orbital motion of the ionising star and consequent periodic heating of outer be disc layers , similar to @xmath22  per , which is a binary between b0.5ive and an o - type subdwarf ( sdo6 ) @xcite .",
    "@xcite reported that spectra of @xmath22  per also exhibit periodic interchanging blue- and red - dominated balmer emission components , as indicated by figs .  3 and 5 in the case of cs1 .",
    "we do not see evidence that the spectral variations are periodic , however , our data were only sensitive to very short timescales ( @xmath231  day ) and were sufficient to reject also the 68-day periodicity .",
    "the expected orbital period of a close be binary would be longer than in the case of a cataclysmic binary model . having only two reasonable assumptions available , i.e. that the primary star had a mass higher than the b8v companion star in the pre - pn phase , @xmath12.6  m@xmath24 @xcite , and that the roche lobe was filled during the red giant phase of the primary star , we can only derive rough theoretical lower and upper limits to the current orbital period to be 1 and 300 days , respectively .",
    "however , a similar close binary system of an early main sequence star ( a5v ) and an o - type subdwarf was found in the centre of the bipolar pn ngc  2346 with an orbital period 16 days @xcite .",
    "if a similar orbital period is applied to sh2 - 71 , this would comply with the absence of spectroscopic variations in hourly time - scales of aat dataset and presence of variations in daily time - scales in the int and lt datasets .",
    "a similar orbital period would also coincide with the tentatively identified eclipsing period of 17.2 days .",
    "furthermore , the mass transfer in the pre - pn evolution , required for the formation of a subdwarf , provides an explanation for the observed high metallicity in the spectra of the observed star , because the metal - rich material , recently dumped onto the b8v star in the pre - pn phase would not have had enough time to be fully mixed into the main - sequence star @xcite .",
    "the photometric behaviour of the observed star can be explained by a variety of different contributing factors , such as starspots , stellar pulsations , reflection and/or irradiation if in a close binary system etc . , but for the vast majority of cases , the effect would be insufficient or it would be correlated with spectral variations . on the other hand ,",
    "a close be binary system with a precessing be disc has been identified as a possible plausible mechanism for the observed photometric properties and uncorrelated spectral variations of cs1 .",
    "if the circumstellar be disc is inclined with respect to orbital plane , the close binary ionising star can invoke tidal torques and cause the inclined disc to precess .",
    "the resulting periodic occultations of the companion star by the precessing disc can then be responsible for the observed 0.8-magnitude quasi - sinusoidal brightness variations .",
    "furthermore , the detected variation of the reddening effect , @xmath0 , which coincides with the period and phase of the cs1 s lightcurve , corresponds to an estimated absorption of 0.70.8  mag in _ v_-band and thus confirms that the extinction due to the precessing be disc could be a realistic explanation for the observed photometric behaviour .",
    "the quasi - sinusoidal lightcurve with a period of 68 days would then correspond to a precession of the circumstellar disc , whereas the uncorrelated spectroscopic variations would result from the various intrinsic contributing factors listed above or , if periodic , possibly a result from orbital motion of the binary components .",
    "the reported fraction of b8e among all b8 stars is 10 per cent , the vast majority of them being main sequence stars ( kogure et al .",
    "1982 ) , whereas the binary fraction of be stars is @xmath11/3 @xcite .",
    "combined fractions suggest that about 3 per cent of b8 stars are b8ve binaries . from these ,",
    "be+sdo binaries in particular are supposed to exist in abundance , yet because they are not easily distinct , only three such systems are known with certainty @xcite .",
    "this provides a small but still realistic probability that the central star candidate cs1 is a b8ve+sdo binary .",
    "the proposed precessing be - disc model is highly tentative , however , it provides the explanation for the observed brightness variations and uncorrelated pronounced spectral variability .",
    "in addition , it also provides a potential collimation mechanism , required for the bipolar shape of sh2 - 71 . an extended daily - cadence sample of h@xmath8 and h@xmath14 profiles would be required to verify any potential periodicity of the spectral variations and thus provide further evidence for the be binary hypothesis .",
    "using photometric datasets from the central star candidate cs1 of the planetary nebula sh2 - 71 from the byrne observatory at sedgwick ( bos ) , the faulkes telescope south ( fts ) and the liverpool telescope ( lt ) , we tentatively identify the presence of periodic sharp brightness dips , possibly eclipses , with a period of @xmath25 days .",
    "we have also measured a periodic variable reddening effect with an amplitude @xmath0 , which coincides with the 68-days period and phase of the star s quasi - sinusoidal lightcurve .",
    "spectroscopic datasets from the lt , the isaac newton telescope ( int ) and the anglo - australian telescope ( aat ) confirmed pronounced variations in the shapes of the balmer , helium and singly ionised metal lines .",
    "our analysis revealed that these spectral variations are not correlated with the 68-days brightness variations and that the spectral variations occur on the time - scale of a few days . comparing the observed with synthetic spectra yielded _ _",
    "t__@xmath15 1100013000  k , @xmath16 @xmath17  cm  s^-2^ , @xmath18 @xmath19  km  s^-1^ and indicated a high value of metallicity .",
    "the fitted parameters and the comparison with standard spectra classified the observed star as @xmath1b8v .",
    "the radial velocity ( rv ) was measured to vary with an amplitude of @xmath240  km  s^-1^ around the mean value of @xmath126  km  s^-1^. the near agreement between the mean rv of the observed star and the reported mean rv of the nebula provides supporting evidence that the brighter candidate for the central star , cs1 , indeed could be the true central star of sh2 - 71 .",
    "in addition , imaging with the int revealed nebular features extending eastwards from cs1 , which indicates that the observed star is likely to be physically linked with the planetary nebula .    we have revisited and rejected the cataclysmic model for the central star , proposed by @xcite .",
    "the newly obtained spectrophotometric properties of the observed star were best reproduced by a close be binary system with a precessing circumstellar disc .",
    "however , mainly due to the lack of spectra with a daily cadence , this newly suggested model should be regarded as tentative .",
    "we would like to thank the anonymous referee for their perceptive and detailed comments which led to improving this paper .",
    "we also thank dr david jones for his helpful suggestions in the rv analysis process .",
    "tm gratefully acknowledges the financial support of slovene human resources development and scholarship fund .",
    "this paper makes use of observations from the lcogt network , the liverpool telescope , the isaac newton telescope , the archived data obtained from the anglo - australian telescope data archive , and the isaac newton group archive which is maintained as part of the casu astronomical data centre at the institute of astronomy , cambridge .",
    "the isaac newton telescope is operated on the island of la palma by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .",
    "the liverpool telescope is operated on the island of la palma by liverpool john moores university in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias with financial support from the uk science and technology facilities council .",
    "99 bagnulo s. , jehin e. , ledoux c. , cabanac r. , melo c. , gilmozzi r. , eso paranal science operations team , 2003 , the messenger , 114 , 10 barnsley r.m .",
    ", smith r.j . ,",
    "steele i.a . , 2012 ,",
    "astronomische nachrichten , 333 , 101 belikov a.n . , 1995 , vizier online data catalog , 5085 , 0 boi h. , harmanec p. , horn j. , koubsky p. , scholz g. , mcdavid d. , hubert a.m. , hubert h. , 1995 , a&a , 304 , 235 cuesta l. , phillips j.p . , 1993 , a&a , 270 , 379 de marco o. , 2009 , pasp , 121 , 316 de marco o. , hillwig t.c .",
    ", smith a.j . , 2008 , aj , 136 , 323 frew d.j . ,",
    "parker q.a . , 2007 ,",
    "in asymmetrical planetary nebulae iv do post - common envelope objects form a distinct subset of pne ?",
    "hanuschik r.w . , 1989 , ap&ss , 161 , 61 jurcsik j. , 1993 , in weinberger r. , acker a. , eds , planetary nebulae vol .",
    "155 of iau symposium , on the photometric behaviour of the central star of the planetary nebula sh2 - 71 p. 399",
    "kohoutek l. , 1979 , information bulletin on variable stars , 1672 , 1 kohoutek l. , 2001 , vizier online data catalog , 4024 , 0 mendez r.h .",
    ", niemela v.s . , 1981 , apj , 250 , 240 mikulek z. , skopal a. , zejda m. , pejcha o. , kohoutek l. , motl d. , vittone a.a . , errico l. , 2007 , in okazaki a.t . , owocki s.p . ,",
    "stefl s. , eds , active ob - stars : laboratories for stellar and circumstellar physics vol .",
    "361 of astronomical society of the pacific conference series , light variations of the anomalous central star of planetary nebula sh 2 - 71 .",
    "minkowski r. , 1946 , pasp , 58 , 305 monik t. , 2013 , master s thesis , the university of manchester .",
    "available at : + https://www.escholar.manchester.ac.uk/uk-ac-man-scw:215279 munari u. , sordo r. , castelli f. , zwitter t. , 2005 , a&a , 442 , 1127 poeckert r. , 1981 , pasp , 93 , 297 porter j.m .",
    ", rivinius t. , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 1153 rivinius t. , carciofi a.c . , martayan c. , 2013 , a&a rev .",
    ", 21 , 69 schneider s.e . , terzian y. , purgathofer a. , perinotto m. , 1983 , apjs , 52 , 399 sharpless s. , 1959 , apjs , 4 , 257 smalley b. , 1997 , the observatory , 117 , 338"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the analysis of several newly obtained and archived photometric and spectroscopic datasets of the intriguing and yet poorly understood 13.5-mag central star candidate of the bipolar planetary nebula sh2 - 71 . </S>",
    "<S> photometric observations confirmed the previously determined quasi - sinusoidal lightcurve with a period of 68 days and also indicated periodic sharp brightness dips , possibly eclipses , with a period of 17.2 days . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , the comparison between _ u _ and _ v _ lightcurves revealed that the 68-day brightness variations are accompanied by a variable reddening effect of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> spectroscopic datasets demonstrated pronounced variations in spectral profiles of balmer , helium and singly ionised metal lines and indicated that these variations occur on a time - scale of a few days . </S>",
    "<S> the most accurate verification to date revealed that spectral variability is not correlated with the 68-day brightness variations . </S>",
    "<S> the mean radial velocity of the observed star was measured to be @xmath126  km  s^-1^ with an amplitude of @xmath240  km  s^-1^. the spectral type was determined to be b8v through spectral comparison with synthetic and standard spectra . </S>",
    "<S> the newly proposed model for the central star candidate is a be binary with a misaligned precessing disc .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    planetary nebula : individual : sh2 - 71  stars : variables : general  stars : emission - line , be  binaries : close . </S>"
  ]
}