{
  "article_text": [
    "over the last two decades , it has become apparent that mechanical forces play a central role for cellular decision - making , leading to the emerging field of mechanobiology @xcite . in order to understand how forces impact cellular processes ,",
    "it is essential to measure them with high spatiotemporal resolution and to correlate them either statistically or causally with the cellular process of interest . the most common approach is to measure forces at the cell - matrix interface .",
    "this field has grown rapidly over the last years and has become to be known as _ traction force microscopy _ ( tfm ) . using this approach ,",
    "it has been shown e.g.  that cellular traction often correlates with the size of adhesion contacts @xcite but also that this correlation depends on the growth history of the adhesion contact under consideration @xcite . for most tissue cell types ,",
    "high extracellular stiffness correlates with large traction forces and large cell - matrix adhesion contacts .",
    "these large contacts are thought to not only ensure higher mechanical stability , but also to reflect increased signaling activity .",
    "this leads to a stiffness - sensitive response of cells , e.g.  during cell spreading and migration @xcite or stem cell differentiation @xcite . while tfm has become a standard tool in many labs working on mechanobiology , in practise the details of its implementation vary significantly and the development of new approaches is moving forward at a very fast pace .    from a general point of view , forces are not an experimentally directly accessible quantity but have to be infered from the fact that they create some kind of motion . despite the fact that this motion can follow different laws depending on the details of the system under consideration ( e.g.  being elastic or viscous ) , a force measurement essentially requires to monitor some kind of dynamics .",
    "this is illustrated best with a linear elastic spring . here",
    "force is defined as @xmath0 , with spring constant @xmath1 and displacement @xmath2 . without a measurement of @xmath2 , no statement on @xmath3",
    "would be possible ( @xmath1 is a constant that can be obtained from a calibration experiment ) . in order to measure @xmath2 ,",
    "the reference state @xmath4 has to be known , and therefore one typically needs a relaxation process to determine the absolute value of @xmath2 .",
    "thus even seemingly static situations require some dynamical measurement .",
    "another instructive example is the stress acting over a fictitious surface inside a static but strained elastic body . in order to measure this stress directly , in principle one",
    "has to cut the surface open and to introduce a strain gauge that measures forces by the movement of a calibrated spring .",
    "alternatively one needs to use a model that allows one to predict this stress from an elastic calculation .        in summary",
    ", each direct measurement of cellular forces has to start with the identification of a suitable strain gauge .",
    "thus a helpful classification of the wide field of tfm can be introduced by considering the different ways in which a strain gauge can be incorporated in a cell culture setup ( ) . the most obvious way to do",
    "this is to replace the glass or plastic dishes of cell culture by an elastic system that can deform under cell forces .",
    "early attempts to do so used thin elastic sheets , which buckle under cellular traction and thus provide an immediate visual readout ( a ) @xcite .",
    "however , due to this non - linear response ,",
    "it is difficult to evaluate these experiments quantitatively . therefore this assay was first improved by using thin silicone films under tension @xcite and then thick polyacrylamide ( paa ) films that do not buckle but deform smoothly under cell traction ( b ) @xcite .",
    "today the use of thick films made of different materials is a standard approach in many mechanobiology labs .",
    "fiducial markers can be embedded into these substrates and their movement can be recorded to extract a displacement field . solving the inverse problem of elasticity theory , cellular traction forces",
    "can be calculated from these data @xcite .",
    "an interesting alternative to solving the inverse problem is the direct method that constructs the stress tensor by a direct mapping from a strain tensor calculated from the image data @xcite . here",
    "we will review these methods that are based on the experimental setup shown in b.    a simple alternative to tfm on soft elastic substrates is the use of pillar arrays , where forces are decoupled in an array of local strain gauges ( c ) @xcite .",
    "pillars can be microfabricated from many different materials , including elastomeres like polydimethylsiloxane ( pdms ) or solid material like silicium , as long as they have a sufficiently high aspect ratio to deform under cellular traction .",
    "one disadvantage of this approach is that cells are presented with topographical cues and that their adhesion sites grow on laterally restricted islands , making this system fundamentally different from unconstrained adhesion on flat substrates .",
    "moreover it has recently been pointed out that substrate warping might occur if the base is made from the same elastic material , thus care has to be taken to correctly calibrate these systems @xcite .",
    "a very promising alternative to macroscopically large elastic strain gauges is the use of molecular force sensors ( d ) @xcite .",
    "such a sensor typically consists of two molecular domains connected by a calibrated elastic linker . in the example for an extracellular sensor shown in d",
    ", the distal domain is bound to a gold dot on the substrate that quenches the cell - bound domain and fluorescence ensues as the linker is stretched by cellular forces @xcite . for intracellular sensors , one can use frster resonance energy transfer ( fret ) , which means that fluorescence decreases as the linker is stretched @xcite .",
    "fluorescent stress sensors give a direct readout of molecular forces , but for several reasons one has to be careful when interpreting these signals .",
    "first the effective spring constant of the elastic linker might depend on the local environment in the cell , even if calibrated in a single - molecule force spectroscopy experiment .",
    "second the fluorescent signal is a sensitive function of domain separation and relative orientation , thus a direct conversion into force can be problematic .",
    "third it is difficult to control the number of engaged sensors , thus the fluorescent signal can not easily be integrated over a larger region .",
    "fourth the molecular stress sensor reads out only part of the force at work in the cellular structure of interest ( e.g.  the adhesion contact ) .",
    "therefore fluorescent stress sensors are expected to complement but not to replace traditional tfm in the future .",
    "one advantage of fluorescent stress sensors over soft elastic substrates and pillar assays is that they can be more easily adapted to force measurements in tissue , for example in developmental systems with fast and complicated cell rearrangements , although the same issues might apply as discussed above for single cells .",
    "recently , however , it has been shown that macroscopic oil droplets can be used to monitor forces during developmental processes @xcite . in principle",
    ", also subcellular structures such as focal adhesions , stress fibers , mitochondria or nuclei can be used as fiducial markers for cell and tissue deformations @xcite .",
    "one disadvantage of this approach however is that subcellular structures are usually highly dynamic and can exhibit their own modes of movement , thus not necessarily following the overall deformation of the cell .",
    "nevertheless conceptually and methodologically these approaches are similar to traditional tfm and also work in the tissue context .",
    "another important subfield of tfm is estimating internal forces from cell traction using the concept of force balance . this concept has been implemented both for forces between few cells @xcite and for forces within laterally extended cell monolayers @xcite . in the latter case ( _ monolayer stress microscopy _ )",
    ", one assumes that the cell monolayer behaves like a thin elastic film coupled to the underlying matrix by stresses ( alternatively one can assume coupling by strain @xcite ) . combined with a negative pressure that represents the effect of actomyosin contractility , the physics of thin elastic films is now increasingly used to describe forces of cell monolayers in general @xcite .",
    "recently single cell and monolayer approaches for internal force reconstruction have been combined by tracking each cell inside a monolayer @xcite . for single cells ,",
    "the combination of modeling and tfm has recently been advanced to estimate the tensions in the whole set of stress fibers within cells on pillar arrays @xcite and soft elastic substrates @xcite . for the latter case",
    "an actively contracting cable network constructed from image data has been employed to model contractility in the set of stress fibers within u2os cells .    despite the many exciting developments in the large field of tfm , the most commonly used setup to measure cellular forces",
    "is traction force microscopy on soft elastic substrates @xcite .",
    "here we review the underlying principles and recent advances with a special focus on computational aspects . for the following ,",
    "it is helpful to classify the different approaches in this field .",
    "because cells become rather flat in mature adhesion on elastic substrates , traditionally only tangential deformations have been considered ( 2d tfm ) .",
    "more recently , tracking of bead movements in all three dimensions has been used to reconstruct also z - direction forces ( 3d tfm ) @xcite .",
    "for both 2d and 3d tfm , one further has to differ between linear and non - linear procedures .",
    "the central quantity in this context is strain @xmath5 , which is defined as relative deformation and therefore dimensionless .",
    "if the substrate is sufficiently stiff or the cell sufficiently weak to result in strain values much smaller than unity ( @xmath6 ) , one is in the linear regime and can work with the small strain approximation @xcite .",
    "the standard approach to estimating forces is the solution of the inverse problem of linear elasticity theory ( inverse tfm ) . in the linear case",
    ", one can use the green s function formalism that leads to very fast and efficient algorithms for force reconstruction using inverse procedures , both for the standard case of thick substrates and for substrates of finite thickness ( gf - tfm ) @xcite .",
    "if in contrast one is in the regime of large strain ( @xmath7 ) , green s functions can not be used .",
    "one way to deal with this problem is the use of the finite element method ( fem - tfm ) in a non - linear formulation .",
    "moreover fem - tfm can also be used in a linear formulation @xcite . for both small and large strain ,",
    "alternatively the stress can in principle be constructed directly from the displacement ( direct tfm ) @xcite .    in all approaches",
    "used , an important issue is the role of noise on the force reconstruction .",
    "most tfm - approaches use an inversion of the elastic problem to calculate forces from displacement .",
    "however , this is an ill - posed problem in the sense that due to the long - ranged nature of elasticity , the calculated traction patterns are highly sensitive to small variations in the measured displacement field and thus solutions might be ambiguous in the presence of noise @xcite . also non - conforming discretization of",
    "the problem can cause ill - posedness , e.g.  if the mesh is chosen too fine compared to the mean distance of measured bead displacements . in order to avoid ambiguous solutions ,",
    "a regularization procedure has to be employed in one way or the other , e.g.  by filtering the image data or by adding additional constraints to the force estimation @xcite . in model - based tfm ( mb - tfm ) , this problem can be avoided if the model is sufficiently limiting @xcite . in direct tfm",
    ", care has to be taken how to calculate the derivatives from noisy data @xcite .",
    "traction reconstruction with point forces ( trpf ) can be considered to be a variant of mb - tfm , but requires regularization if one uses many point forces @xcite .",
    ".abbreviations for different variants of traction force microscopy ( tfm ) on flat elastic substrates as discussed in this review .",
    "the corresponding references are given in the main text .",
    "regularization is required to deal with experimental noise .",
    "the first five entries in the list exist in both linear and non - linear versions .",
    "the other entries are typically used with a linear substrate model . [",
    "cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab_software ]    over the last years , different software packages have been developed for the image processing and force reconstruction tasks . in tab .",
    "ii we list some of them for the convenience of the tfm - user .",
    "the imagej plugin for fttc is a ready - to - use solution to implement standard tfm @xcite .",
    "the finite thickness software is required when cells are very strong or the substrate is very thin @xcite .",
    "the regularization tools by hansen can be used for regularized optimization strategies in inverse tfm based on optimization , compare @xcite .",
    "helpful image processing tools are available also from other fields like environmental physics , fluids dynamics , microrheology , single molecule imaging or super resolution microscopy . a standard choice for correlative tracking is the matlab piv toolbox .",
    "alternatively one can use single particle tracking routines . for large deformation 3d tfm",
    ", a specialized code has been developed very recently @xcite .",
    "here we have reviewed recent progress in tfm on soft elastic substrates from the computational perspective .",
    "our overview shows that this field is moving at a very fast pace and that many different variants of this approach have been developed over the last two decades , each with its respective advantages and disadvantages .",
    "thus the situation is similar to the one for optical microscopy , a field in which also a lot of progress has been made over the last decades at many different fronts simultaneously , ranging from super resolution microscopy ( sted , palm , storm , sim ) through correlative and fluctuation microscopy to light sheet microscopy ( spim ) . like in this field , too , for tfm the choice of method depends on the experimental question one is addressing and in many case a combination of different approaches will work best .",
    "our review shows that force reconstruction can not be separated from data analysis and image processing , in particular due to the noise issue .",
    "irrespective of the approach used , care has to be taken to deal with the experimental noise that is always present in the displacement data .",
    "each of the methods discussed above includes some kind of regularization , either implicitly through image filtering or explicitly through some regularization scheme .    for 2d tfm , the standard approach is fttc and this has become the common procedure in many labs working in mechanobiology due to its short computing times .",
    "reg - fttc makes computation time only slightly longer but introduces a more rigorous treatment of the noise issue .",
    "fttc can be extended easily to 3d tfm , but only if the image data is of very good quality .",
    "the simplest version of 3d tfm implies tracking of marker beads in z - direction on planar substrates .",
    "as such experiments usually require relatively soft substrates , one typically leaves the linear domain and large deformation methods have to be used for force reconstruction .",
    "similar techniques can then be used also in full 3d tfm , e.g. when cells are encapsulated in hydrogels .",
    "here however care has to be taken that the cellular environment is indeed elastic ; otherwise a viscoelastic or even plastic theory has to be employed .",
    "the more complex the questions and experiments become that are conducted in mechanobiology , the more difficult it will get to extract meaningful correlations and cause - effects relations .",
    "we therefore envision that in the future , such experiments will be increasingly combined with mathematical models that allow us to extract useful information from microscopy data in a quantitative manner .",
    "simple examples discussed above are trpf and mb - tfm , which use the assumptions of localization of force transmission to the adhesion contacts ( trpf ) and force generation in the actin cytoskeleton ( mb - tfm ) to improve the quality of the data that one can extract from tfm - experiments . in a similar vein",
    ", we expect that in the future , more and more data will be extracted from microscopy images based on some bayesian assumptions that have been validated before by other experimental results .",
    "another very exciting development is the combination of tfm with fluorescent stress sensors , which complement it with molecular information and which can be more easily used in a tissue context .",
    "the authors acknowledge support by the bmbf - programm mechanosys and by the heidelberg cluster of excellence cellnetworks through its program for emerging collaborative topics .",
    "we thank christoph brand for critical reading and help with for mb - tfm .",
    "we thank nils hersch , georg dreissen , bernd hoffmann and rudolf merkel for the data used in and jonathan stricker , patrick oakes and margaret gardel for the data used in .",
    "we apologize to all authors whose work we could not cite for space reasons .",
    "nathalie  q. balaban , ulrich  s. schwarz , daniel riveline , polina goichberg , gila tzur , ilana sabanay , diana mahalu , sam safran , alexander bershadsky , lia addadi , and benjamin geiger .",
    "force and focal adhesion assembly : a close relationship studied using elastic micropatterned substrates . 3 ( 2001 ) 466472 .",
    "jerome  m. goffin , philippe pittet , gabor csucs , jost  w. lussi , jean - jacques meister , and boris hinz .",
    "focal adhesion size controls tension - dependent recruitment of alpha - smooth muscle actin to stress fibers .",
    "172 ( 2006 ) 259268 .",
    "masha prager - khoutorsky , alexandra lichtenstein , ramaswamy krishnan , kavitha rajendran , avi mayo , zvi kam , benjamin geiger , and alexander  d. bershadsky .",
    "fibroblast polarization is a matrix - rigidity - dependent process controlled by focal adhesion mechanosensing . 13",
    "( 2011 ) 14571465 .",
    "la trichet , jimmy le  digabel , rhoda  j hawkins , sri ram  krishna vedula , mukund gupta , claire ribrault , pascal hersen , raphal voituriez , and benot ladoux .",
    "evidence of a large - scale mechanosensing mechanism for cellular adaptation to substrate stiffness . 109 ( 2012 ) 6933 - 6938 .",
    "britta trappmann , julien  e. gautrot , john  t. connelly , daniel g.  t. strange , yuan li , michelle  l. oyen , martien a.  cohen stuart , heike boehm , bojun li , viola vogel , joachim  p. spatz , fiona  m. watt , and wilhelm t.  s. huck .",
    "extracellular - matrix tethering regulates stem - cell fate .",
    "11 ( 2012 ) 642649 .",
    "jessica  h. wen , ludovic  g. vincent , alexander fuhrmann , yu  suk choi , kolin  c. hribar , hermes taylor - weiner , shaochen chen , and adam  j. engler .",
    "interplay of matrix stiffness and protein tethering in stem cell differentiation .",
    "13 ( 2014 ) 979987 .",
    "schwarz , n.q .",
    "balaban , d.  riveline , a.  bershadsky , b.  geiger , and s.a .",
    "calculation of forces at focal adhesions from elastic substrate data : the effect of localized force and the need for regularization .",
    "83 ( 2002 ) 13801394 .",
    "sergey  v. plotnikov , benedikt sabass , ulrich  s. schwarz , and clare  m. waterman .",
    "high - resolution traction force microscopy . in jennifer c. waters and  torsten wittman , editor , _ methods in cell biology _ , volume 123 ( 2014 ) 367394 .",
    "c.  franck , s.  hong , s.  a. maskarinec , d.  a. tirrell , and g.  ravichandran .",
    "three - dimensional full - field measurements of large deformations in soft materials using confocal microscopy and digital volume correlation .",
    "47 ( 2007 ) 427438 .",
    "saba ghassemi , giovanni meacci , shuaimin liu , alexander  a. gondarenko , anurag mathur , pere roca - cusachs , michael  p. sheetz , and james hone .",
    "cells test substrate rigidity by local contractions on submicrometer pillars . 109 ( 2012 )",
    "53285333 .",
    "carsten grashoff , brenton  d. hoffman , michael  d. brenner , ruobo zhou , maddy parsons , michael  t. yang , mark  a. mclean , stephen  g. sligar , christopher  s. chen , taekjip ha , and martin  a. schwartz .",
    "measuring mechanical tension across vinculin reveals regulation of focal adhesion dynamics . 466 ( 2010 )",
    "263266 .          brandon",
    "l. blakely , christoph  e. dumelin , britta trappmann , lynn  m. mcgregor , colin  k. choi , peter  c. anthony , van  k. duesterberg , brendon  m. baker , steven  m. block , david  r. liu , and christopher  s. chen . a dna - based molecular probe for optically reporting cellular traction forces .",
    "11 ( 2014 ) 12291232 .",
    "yang liu , rebecca medda , zheng liu , kornelia galior , kevin yehl , joachim  p. spatz , elisabetta  ada cavalcanti - adam , and khalid salaita .",
    "nanoparticle tension probes patterned at the nanoscale : impact of integrin clustering on force transmission .",
    "14 ( 2014 ) 55395546",
    ".    anna - lena cost , pia ringer , anna chrostek - grashoff , and carsten grashoff . how to measure molecular forces in cells : a guide to evaluating genetically - encoded fret - based tension sensors .",
    "8 ( 2014 ) 96 - 105 .",
    "otger campas , tadanori mammoto , sean hasso , ralph  a. sperling , daniel oconnell , ashley  g. bischof , richard maas , david  a. weitz , l.  mahadevan , and donald  e. ingber .",
    "quantifying cell - generated mechanical forces within living embryonic tissues .",
    "11 ( 2014 ) 183189 .",
    "ning wang , keiji naruse , dimitrije stamenovi , jeffrey  j. fredberg , srboljub  m. mijailovich , iva  marija toli - nrrelykke , thomas polte , robert mannix , and donald  e. ingber .",
    "mechanical behavior in living cells consistent with the tensegrity model .",
    "98 ( 2001 ) 77657770 .",
    "shaohua hu , jianxin chen , ben fabry , yasushi numaguchi , andrew gouldstone , donald  e. ingber , jeffrey  j. fredberg , james  p. butler , and ning wang .",
    "intracellular stress tomography reveals stress focusing and structural anisotropy in cytoskeleton of living cells .",
    "285 ( 2003 ) c1082c1090 .",
    "zhijun liu , john  l. tan , daniel  m. cohen , michael  t. yang , nathan  j. sniadecki , sami  alom ruiz , celeste  m. nelson , and christopher  s. chen .",
    "mechanical tugging force regulates the size of cell  cell junctions .",
    "107 ( 2010 ) 99449949 .",
    "dhananjay  t. tambe , c.  corey  hardin , thomas  e. angelini , kavitha rajendran , chan  young park , xavier serra - picamal , enhua  h. zhou , muhammad  h. zaman , james  p. butler , david  a. weitz , jeffrey  j. fredberg , and xavier trepat . collective cell guidance by cooperative intercellular forces .",
    "10 ( 2011 ) 469475 .",
    "dhananjay  t. tambe , ugo croutelle , xavier trepat , chan  young park , jae  hun kim , emil millet , james  p. butler , and jeffrey  j. fredberg .",
    "monolayer stress microscopy : limitations , artifacts , and accuracy of recovered intercellular stresses . 8",
    "( 2013 ) e55172 .",
    "michel moussus , christelle  der loughian , david fuard , marie couron , danielle gulino - debrac , hlne delano - ayari , and alice nicolas .",
    "intracellular stresses in patterned cell assemblies .",
    "10 ( 2014 ) 24142423 .",
    "aaron  f. mertz , shiladitya banerjee , yonglu che , guy  k. german , ye  xu , callen hyland , m.  cristina marchetti , valerie horsley , and eric  r. dufresne .",
    "scaling of traction forces with the size of cohesive cell colonies .",
    "108 ( 2012 ) 198101 .",
    "aaron  f. mertz , yonglu che , shiladitya banerjee , jill  m. goldstein , kathryn  a. rosowski , stephen  f. revilla , carien  m. niessen , m.  cristina marchetti , eric  r. dufresne , and valerie horsley .",
    "cadherin - based intercellular adhesions organize epithelial cell  matrix traction forces .",
    "110 ( 2013 ) 842847 .",
    "sebastian rausch , tamal das , jerome soine , tobias hofmann , christian boehm , ulrich schwarz , heike boehm , and joachim spatz . polarizing cytoskeletal tension to induce leader cell formation during collective cell migration .",
    "8 ( 2013 ) 32 .",
    "amit pathak , christopher  s. chen , anthony  g. evans , and robert  m. mcmeeking .",
    "structural mechanics based model for the force - bearing elements within the cytoskeleton of a cell adhered on a bed of posts . 79 ( 2012 ) 061020061020 .",
    "jerome r.  d. soine , christoph  a. brand , jonathan stricker , patrick  w. oakes , margaret  l. gardel , and ulrich  s. schwarz .",
    "model - based traction force microscopy reveals differential tension in cellular actin bundles .",
    "11 ( 2015 ) e1004076 .",
    "claudia  m. cesa , norbert kirchgessner , dirk mayer , ulrich  s. schwarz , bernd hoffmann , and rudolf merkel .",
    "micropatterned silicone elastomer substrates for high resolution analysis of cellular force patterns .",
    "78 ( 2007 ) 034301 .",
    "robert  w. style , rostislav boltyanskiy , guy  k. german , callen hyland , christopher  w. macminn , aaron  f. mertz , larry  a. wilen , ye  xu , and eric  r. dufresne . traction force microscopy in physics and biology .",
    "10 ( 2014 ) 40474055 .",
    "wesley  r. legant , colin  k. choi , jordan  s. miller , lin shao , liang gao , eric betzig , and christopher  s. chen .",
    "multidimensional traction force microscopy reveals out - of - plane rotational moments about focal adhesions .",
    "110 ( 2013 ) 881886 .",
    "juan c.  del alamo , ruedi meili , baldomero alonso - latorre , javier rodriguez - rodrguez , alberto aliseda , richard  a. firtel , and juan  c. lasheras .",
    "spatio - temporal analysis of eukaryotic cell motility by improved force cytometry . 104",
    "( 2007 ) 1334313348 .",
    "juan  c. del alamo , ruedi meili , begoa alvarez - gonzalez , baldomero alonso - latorre , effie bastounis , richard firtel , and juan  c. lasheras .",
    "three - dimensional quantification of cellular traction forces and mechanosensing of thin substrata by fourier traction force microscopy . 8",
    "( 2013 ) e69850 .",
    "wesley  r legant , jordan  s miller , brandon  l blakely , daniel  m cohen , guy  m genin , and christopher  s chen .",
    "measurement of mechanical tractions exerted by cells in three - dimensional matrices . 7 ( 2010 ) 969971 .",
    "casey  e. kandow , penelope  c. georges , paul  a. janmey , and karen  a. beningo .",
    "polyacrylamide hydrogels for cell mechanics : steps toward optimization and alternative uses . in yu - li wang and dennis",
    "e. discher , editor , _ methods in cell biology _ , volume  83 , pages 2946 . academic press , 2007 .",
    "jean - louis martiel , aldo leal , laetitia kurzawa , martial balland , irene wang , timothe vignaud , qingzong tseng , and manuel thry .",
    "measurement of cell traction forces with imagej . in ewa",
    "k. paluch , editor , _ methods in cell biology _ , volume 125 , pages 269287 . academic press , 2015 .",
    "ryan  j. bloom , jerry  p. george , alfredo celedon , sean  x. sun , and denis wirtz .",
    "mapping local matrix remodeling induced by a migrating tumor cell using three - dimensional multiple - particle tracking .",
    "95 ( 2008 ) 40774088 .",
    "florian rehfeldt , andr e.  x. brown , matthew raab , shenshen cai , allison  l. zajac , assaf zemel , and dennis  e. discher .",
    "hyaluronic acid matrices show matrix stiffness in 2d and 3d dictates cytoskeletal order and myosin - ii phosphorylation within stem cells . 4 ( 2012 ) 422430 .",
    "sung  sik hur , juan c.  del lamo , joon  seok park , yi - shuan li , hong  a. nguyen , dayu teng , kuei - chun wang , leona flores , baldomero alonso - latorre , juan  c. lasheras , and shu chien .",
    "roles of cell confluency and fluid shear in 3-dimensional intracellular forces in endothelial cells . 109 ( 2012 )",
    "1111011115 .",
    "william ronan , vikram  s. deshpande , robert  m. mcmeeking , and j.  patrick mcgarry .",
    "cellular contractility and substrate elasticity : a numerical investigation of the actin cytoskeleton and cell adhesion .",
    "13 ( 2013 ) 417435 .",
    "pouria moshayedi , luciano da  f. costa , andreas christ , stephanie  p. lacour , james fawcett , jochen guck , and kristian franze .",
    "mechanosensitivity of astrocytes on optimized polyacrylamide gels analyzed by quantitative morphometry . 22",
    "( 2010 ) 194114 .",
    "edgar gutierrez , eugene tkachenko , achim besser , prithu sundd , klaus ley , gaudenz danuser , mark  h. ginsberg , and alex groisman .",
    "high refractive index silicone gels for simultaneous total internal reflection fluorescence and traction force microscopy of adherent cells . 6 ( 2011 ) .",
    "kevin  kit parker , amy  lepre brock , cliff brangwynne , robert  j. mannix , ning wang , emanuele ostuni , nicholas  a. geisse , josehphine  c. adams , george  m. whitesides , and donald  e. ingber . directional control of lamellipodia extension by constraining cell shape and orienting cell tractional forces .",
    "16 ( 2002 ) 1195 1204 .",
    "v  damljanovic , bc  lagerholm , and k  jacobson .",
    "bulk and micropatterned conjugation of extracellular matrix proteins to characterized polyacrylamide substrates for cell mechanotransduction assays . 39 ( 2005 )",
    "847851 .",
    "qingzong tseng , eve duchemin - pelletier , alexandre deshiere , martial balland , herv guillou , odile filhol , and manuel thry",
    ". spatial organization of the extracellular matrix regulates cell  cell junction positioning . 109 ( 2012 ) 15061511 .",
    "nico hampe , thorsten jonas , benjamin wolters , nils hersch , bernd hoffmann , and rudolf merkel .",
    "defined 2-d microtissues on soft elastomeric silicone rubber using lift - off epoxy - membranes for biomechanical analyses . 10 ( 2014 ) 24312443 .",
    "franziska klein , thomas striebel , joachim fischer , zhongxiang jiang , clemens  m franz , georg von freymann , martin wegener , and martin bastmeyer .",
    "elastic fully three - dimensional microstructure scaffolds for cell force measurements . 22 ( 2010 )",
    "868871 .",
    "franziska klein , benjamin richter , thomas striebel , clemens  m franz , georg  von freymann , martin wegener , and martin bastmeyer .",
    "two - component polymer scaffolds for controlled three - dimensional cell culture . 23 ( 2011 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the measurement of cellular traction forces on soft elastic substrates has become a standard tool for many labs working on mechanobiology . </S>",
    "<S> here we review the basic principles and different variants of this approach . </S>",
    "<S> in general , the extraction of the substrate displacement field from image data and the reconstruction procedure for the forces are closely linked to each other and limited by the presence of experimental noise . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss different strategies to reconstruct cellular forces as they follow from the foundations of elasticity theory , including two- versus three - dimensional , inverse versus direct and linear versus non - linear approaches . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss how biophysical models can improve force reconstruction and comment on practical issues like substrate preparation , image processing and the availability of software for traction force microscopy . </S>"
  ]
}