{
  "article_text": [
    "spectral modeling is a powerful tool in understanding the physics of astrophysical sources including accreting black holes . by assigning observed / modelled spectral components to physical regions of the accretion flow we can learn about its geometry and how it changes as a response to changes in accretion rate .",
    "the most popular physically motivated model for the x - ray spectra of accreting black holes is the combination of an accretion disc and an inner hot flow where electrons up - scatter the disc photons , giving rise to a comptonised component .",
    "the spectra , especially in the brighter states , additionally require the presence of reflection of the comptonised photons off some cooler material , presumably the accretion disc .",
    "some combination of these components can generally fit the observed broadband spectra in all spectral states ( for a review , see * ? ? ?",
    "however , the data are increasingly showing that more spectral components must be present , especially in the brightest low / hard states .",
    "the spectra can be matched by including extreme inner disc reflection @xcite , but alternative models for an additional component include a warm layer or hot spots on the disc @xcite , compton scattering off an additional thermal or non - thermal electron distribution @xcite , or a component from the radio jet @xcite .",
    "this illustrates the degeneracy in models which are possible using only spectral data",
    ".    the degeneracies can be ( mostly ) broken by using additional timing information .",
    "fast timing studies show that there are energy and frequency dependent lags across the spectrum , both within the comptonisation component and between the disc and comptonisation component @xcite .",
    "the lags within the continuum are best explained if the comptonisation is not a single temperature , but is softer / cooler at larger radii , and harder / hotter at smaller radii .",
    "this spatial dependence of the spectrum of the accretion flow , i.e. , the inhomogeneous nature of the comptonisation region , is crucial to produce the frequency dependent hard lag ( soft lead ) seen in the data .",
    "longer timescale variability is generated at larger radii , affecting first the softer comptonisation , and then propagates down the accretion flow to modulate the fastest variability with a harder spectrum produced in the smallest regions close to the black hole @xcite .",
    "since the fast timing results require inhomogeneous comptonisation , this means that the broadband continuum seen in the time averaged spectrum must be made from multiple compton components .",
    "there may be additional contributions from the jet and/or reflection and/or inhomogeneous disc emission , but the major compton continuum can not be a single component . in previous papers",
    "we have used the technique of frequency - resolved spectroscopy @xcite to track the inhomogeneity of the comptonisation region .",
    "we used data from the black hole binary xte  j1550 - 564 during its rise to outburst as it made a transition from the bright low / hard to very high state .",
    "we found that the fastest variability was always harder than the time averaged comptonisation component , consistent with this being from the innermost , hardest part of the flow @xcite .",
    "the strong low - frequency oscillation also showed a very similar spectrum to that of the most rapid variability , consistent with models where the qpo is from lense - thirring ( relativistic vertical ) precession of the inner parts of the flow @xcite .",
    "these results directly show the inhomogeneity of the comptonisation component .",
    "however , the spectral resolution of the fast timing modes used for these data was not good , with the crucial 813  kev data binned into a single point .    here",
    ", we use better spectral resolution fast timing data from a similar transition of the black hole binary gx  339 - 4 , and use the frequency resolved spectrum of the qpo and its harmonic to constrain the comptonisation components in the time averaged spectrum . as before ,",
    "the qpo spectrum is similar to the time averaged comptonisation .",
    "however , we show for the first time that the spectrum of the harmonic can be strongly different from that of the qpo .",
    "we suggest that there are two major comptonisation regions , a soft one where the corona is over the truncated disc , and a hard one in the inner regions with no disc . both are probably inhomogeneous .",
    "the broadband spectra then must be composed of a disc , soft compton ( similar to the harmonic ) and hard compton continua ( similar to the qpo ) as well as reflection .",
    "neglecting the soft compton continua as well as the more subtle inhomogeneity in the hard compton continua may lead to the more puzzling results from spectral fitting such as the very large reflection fraction @xcite and extreme spin @xcite .",
    "the low - mass x - ray binary gx  339 - 4 was discovered by oso-7 in 1972 @xcite , and already this first report mentioned strong variability and periods of quiescence .",
    "it is a transient source , with outbursts occurring on average every few years .",
    "the compact object is believed to have a mass above @xmath0 , and thus to be a black hole @xcite .",
    "the system inclination has not been well determined , but a limit of @xmath1 is set by assuming the mass of the black hole is less than @xmath2 .",
    "studies of the spectral evolution suggest the the inclination is not high @xcite .",
    "gx  339 - 4 is one of the most studied black hole transients , with extensive coverage by the _ rossi x - ray timing explorer _ ( _ rxte _ ) satellite during the 2002 , 2004 , 2007 and 2010 outbursts .",
    "a radio jet has been observed from the source @xcite , categorizing it as a microquasar .    during an outburst",
    ", gx  339 - 4 goes through the canonical states typically exhibited by black hole binaries .",
    "it is also the first source in which hysteresis was found in the spectral evolution : the transition from hard to soft state during the rising phase occurs at much higher luminosity than the soft - to - hard transition during the decline ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the temporal properties have been studied extensively .",
    "following the typical behaviour of black hole binaries , the broad - band rapid variability is strong in the hard state and suppressed in the softer states . a strong quasi - periodic oscillation ( qpo )",
    "is seen , especially during the hard - to - soft transitions , often accompanied by a harmonic .",
    "an extensive review of the variability features of gx  339 - 4 can be found in @xcite .",
    "in this study we use archival data of gx  339 - 4 from the proportional counter array ( pca ; * ? ? ? * ) and high - energy x - ray timing explorer ( hexte : * ? ? ?",
    "* ) instruments onboard the satellite . while there are many",
    "observations made of gx  339 - 4 , only a few have both high temporal and spectral resolution , with modes suitable for timing often having a single energy bin in the 813kev range .",
    "we have therefore gone through the _ rxte _ archive in search of the best observing modes .",
    "the selected observations are made in the time period 2007 february 414 ( mjd 54135 to 54145 ) , and cover four different stages in the hard to soft evolution . for the pca data we extracted standard2 spectra for each observation applying standard selection criteria .",
    "a systematic error of 1 per cent was added to each bin in the spectra .",
    "the energy band used in the spectral modelling was 330kev . in the case of hexte",
    "we used standard mode spectra from cluster b ( cluster a was not working at this time ) , considering the energy range 30100kev . in the softer states the sensitivity does not allow us to go to higher energies . in the harder state , we initially attempted to extend the data .",
    "however , doing so did not change our results and we therefore chose to keep the same limit in all observations for consistency .      to compare the total spectrum to that of the rapid variability",
    ", we also performed frequency - resolved spectroscopy @xcite on the pca data . following the approach of @xcite ,",
    "we extracted a light curve for each available channel and constructed a power density spectrum ( pds ) . to obtain the contribution from the qpo and harmonic in each energy band , we fit them in the pds using a lorentzian function and integrate this component ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "this gives the relative contribution for each channel , which is finally combined to make an energy spectrum corresponding to each variability component .",
    "as in the case of the standard2 spectra , we added a 1 per cent systematic error to the frequency resolved spectra .",
    "as described above , the two main components used in explaining the spectrum of gx  339 - 4 are the accretion disc and a hot inner flow where componisation produces high - energy emission .",
    "the high - energy photons can then scatter off the accretion disc , producing a characteristic compton reflection component .",
    "we model the disc component using diskbb , where the main parameter is the maximum temperature @xmath3 . for the hard comptonisation component",
    "we use the model nthcomp @xcite , parametrized by the asymptotic spectral index @xmath4 , the seed photon temperature @xmath5 and the electron temperature @xmath6 .",
    "we set @xmath7 as can be expected if the seed photons are the photons from the disc .",
    "this assumes that the electrons are thermal , though with data extending to higher energies is it clear that there are also non - thermal electrons present @xcite .",
    "however , below 100 kev the data are adequately modeled by thermal comptonisation , so we use this description here for simplicity . to model the compton reflection we use xilconv , a convolution model calculating the reflection spectrum using the relxill @xcite code for an arbitrary input spectrum .",
    "the main parameters are the relative amplitude of the reflected component , @xmath8 , the inclination ( which we fix to @xmath9 ) and the ionization parameter of the reprocessing matter , @xmath10 .",
    "finally we include photoelectric absorption , keeping the value of the column density frozen at @xmath11 @xmath12 .",
    "the results of these fits are shown in table  [ avfits ] , and the spectra are plotted in fig .",
    "[ contspecs ] , together with the power spectrum in two energy bands . while the fits are acceptable for the first two spectra , in the softer states the model clearly does not provide a good fit .",
    "the residuals indicate that the low - energy region is most problematic .",
    "overlaid on the spectra are the data points from the qpo ( blue ) and harmonic ( green ) spectra .",
    "they are quite similar in the intermediate spectrum , but in the softer spectra they are strikingly different .",
    "while the spectrum of the qpo appears similar to that of the comptonisation component , the harmonic spectrum is dramatically softer .",
    "the presence of the harmonic in the power spectra means that there has to be a component in the time - averaged spectra matching its spectrum in these observations .",
    "the shape of the harmonic spectrum does not match that of the disc and we therefore test including an additional soft comptonisation component .",
    "it is modelled using comptt @xcite , with the main parameters being the input photon temperature ( also here tied to @xmath3 ) , the electron temperature @xmath13 and the optical depth @xmath14 .",
    "while comptt further allows switching between disc and sphere geometries , our data do not allow us to discriminate between them , and we thus kept the default disc configuration . though the residuals improve , this extra component is not statistically required for the first two spectra ( the significance is @xmath15 ) ; however , there is clear improvement in the two softest spectra ( significance @xmath16 ) .",
    "although the soft compton component may be present in all spectra , for our modeling we therefore retain it only in the two softest spectra where the shape of the harmonic spectrum clearly indicates such a component is needed .",
    "although the addition of a soft comptonisation component improves the fit , the data of the time - averaged spectrum can not constrain all parameters .",
    "this is often the case when using a complex model , and frequently leads to degeneracies which are hard to break .",
    "in particular the temperatures for the disc and soft compton components are not well determined by the time - averaged spectra alone .",
    "as the data only start at 3kev the bulk of the disc component is not covered and it is therefore not surprising that its temperature is difficult to constrain . in the case of the soft comptonisation component ,",
    "it peaks in a region covered by the data , but where there are many components present .",
    "additionally , there is some inherent degeneracy between the electron temperature and optical depth .",
    "the uncertainties in parameter values are large and some parameters can not be well constrained .",
    "this clearly illustrates the difficulty in using multiple spectral components . in spite of this , there are still some general trends that can be seen in the data .",
    "for instance , the power - law index evolves from hard to soft as can be expected , and the blackbody temperature is higher in the softer states .",
    "= 0.12 cm    [ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     @xmath17parameter frozen at this value during error calculations .",
    "+ @xmath18 lower limit .",
    "the fit parameters are in general compatible with those of the average fits alone , but constraining the soft compton component with the harmonic allows more robust fits with smaller uncertainties .",
    "however , the degeneracy between electron temperature @xmath13 and optical depth @xmath14 in the soft comptonisation prevent us from constraining both parameters .",
    "we therefore freeze the temperature at its best - fitting value when performing the error estimations . having done this , the added data from the harmonic",
    "allow us to constrain the remaining parameters , which was not possible using time - averaged data alone .",
    "comparing the power spectra of the two energy bands in fig .",
    "[ contspecs ] , in the hard state they are almost identical .",
    "the variability here is thus more or less independent of energy , and likely we are probing the same component ( i.e. , the main comptonisation ) in both bands .",
    "a completely different picture is instead seen in the softer observations . in these cases ,",
    "the shapes of the pds match up until @xmath19hz , and then start to differ .",
    "this pattern can not be explained by a single varying component .",
    "if the strength of this component is different between the bands , this would led to a dilution of the variability , and thus a shift in the pds , but the overall shape would be the same .",
    "neither can the behaviour be explained by `` pivoting '' of the spectral index , as this would also produce a shift in the relative strength ( depending on the location of the pivot point ) without altering the shape of the pds .",
    "instead , the observed behaviour points to an additional component with a characteristic variability timescale of @xmath20hz .",
    "this is too rapid for the cool disc , and indicates the presence of a separate hot / geometrically thick component in addition to the main comptonisation .",
    "it is thus clear already from these considerations that the comptonisation region is inhomogeneous .",
    "our result that the qpo spectrum is similar to the main comptonisation agrees with previous results from xte  j1550 - 564 , though in gx  339 - 4 the qpo is subtly softer than the main comptonisation whereas in xte  j1550 - 564 it is subtly harder .",
    "however , the behaviour of the harmonic is very different between the two objects . in j1550 ,",
    "the harmonic was always softer than the qpo , but it could be fit with a comptonisation spectrum with the same electron temperature as for the qpo and main comptonisation component @xcite .",
    "by contrast , in gx  339 - 4 , the harmonic seen in the softer spectra clearly requires a much lower electron temperature than the main comptonisation component .",
    "precession of the hot inner flow can produce both a qpo and harmonic ( from the angle dependence of compton scattering and the non - spherical nature of compton region ) so this predicts that these have spectra which are similar to that of the comptonisation component @xcite .",
    "subtle differences in spectra can be produced by the compton region being inhomogeneous , and the qpo and harmonic being weighted to different radii @xcite .",
    "however , the dramatic difference of the harmonic in the softest states of gx  339 - 4 seems too marked to be incorporated into this picture .",
    "instead , it suggests that there is a another mechanism to produce the harmonic , and that this mechanism is more evident in gx  339 - 4 than in j1550 .",
    "yet the two systems are thought to be very similar in binary parameters @xcite , with the only difference being inclination angle .",
    "j1550 is known to be at a rather high inclination angle ( @xmath21 degrees ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while gx  339 - 4 is viewed at intermediate inclination ( as inferred from both its low disc temperature : @xcite , and lack of wind features : @xcite ) .",
    "thus we suggest that the visibility of the additional harmonic signal depends on inclination , being more evident at low inclination angles .",
    "this in turn suggests that it connects to the disc , as is also supported by it being seen in the time averaged spectrum mostly in states where there is a strong disc component .",
    "@xcite find differences between the strength of qpos as a function of inclination , with different dependance for different types of qpos .",
    "in our study we see no big differences in the behaviour of the qpo between gx 339 - 4 and xte j1550 - 564 ( studied in * ? ? ?",
    "the big difference is in the harmonic , which in the harder states of gx 339 - 4 is similar to j1550 , but in the softer states changes drastically .",
    "this means that inclination alone can not be the cause for the difference in the harmonic spectrum .",
    "studies comparing the coherence as a function of frequency for type c qpos in several black hole sources @xcite have found that there are differences between the different harmonics .",
    "some , like the fundamental , are frequency modulated while others appear amplitude modulated .",
    "this could tie into the results found here , indicating more than one different mechanism behind the harmonics .",
    "the similarity found between the harmonic spectrum and the soft comptonisation component in the average spectrum of gx  339 - 4 clearly suggests they are related .",
    "yet it is not obvious how such a component could produce the harmonic , or why the other emission components do not contribute .",
    "if the soft compton component is the outer edge of the inner flow ( the region closest to the disc ) , it would be expected to overlap the disc during the softer states .",
    "this prevents precession , and thus we would not expect the region to be present in the harmonic ( or qpo ) spectra at all . as noted above , the qpo spectra do not require a soft compton component , suggesting that this region is indeed located further out in the flow .    another picture could be that the harmonic instead arises _ because _ of the disc .",
    "if the variability is a vertical mode in the inner flow , the stabilizing disc could in practice cut the wavelength in half and thereby cause the frequency to double .",
    "this would occur preferentially in the outer edge of the hot flow , matching the geometry inferred by , e.g. , @xcite .",
    "the qpo picks out the flow which can vertically precess i.e. , the hot inner flow . as this comes past the disc it drives a wave into the softer comptonisation region which bounces off the midplane disc , so the harmonic picks out the spectrum of the softer comptonisation region .",
    "a doubling of one of the characteristic frequencies in cyg  x-1 was also reported by @xcite during the state transition , suggesting this could be a common behaviour when the hot inner flow and accretion disc overlap .",
    "although emission from the soft compton component should be reflected on the disc , the resulting feature would be shifted down in energy and not appear in the _ rxte _ bandpass , explaining the match between harmonic and direct emission .",
    "the need for a soft compton component has also been found in other sources , such as cyg  x-1 . in a systematic study of spectral evolution in the hard and intermediate states",
    ", @xcite found that the optical depth of the soft compton components decreases for the softer states .",
    "however , @xcite find no significant difference in optical depth of their soft compton component between the hard and hard intermediate state . although the optical depth is lowest in our softest observation , since we only clearly see the component in two spectra we can not make any definite statements .",
    "the geometrical origin of the harmonic , as well as an origin in the inner disc or overlap region , is strongly dependent on viewing angle and thereby inclination .",
    "this could explain the differences seen between gx  339 - 4 ( low to moderate inclination ) and j1550 ( high inclination ) . in addition , both mechanisms also depend on the inner radius of the accretion disc .",
    "nevertheless , the model proposed here predicts that the geometric origin of the harmonic should be strongest in high - inclination sources , whereas the mechanism behind the softer harmonic spectra ( presumably related with the inner disc region ) is seen for low and moderate inclination sources .",
    "this can be tested with future systematic studies .",
    "the results also demonstrate that the geometry is likely complex .",
    "comparison of the qpo and average spectra both here and in @xcite show that the hard compton region is inhomogeneous ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "it is therefore not difficult to imagine that the same would apply also to the soft compton region .",
    "our simplified models are not sufficient to capture these details , and the available data are not able to constrain more complex combinations of components .",
    "we have assumed a single temperature of both the input seed photons as well as the comptonising electrons ; in reality , there will be a distribution of temperatures in both cases . in an overlap geometry",
    "the disc temperature observed directly is also likely to be lower than that seen by the comptonising region covering the inner regions of the disc . despite these difficulties",
    ", we find that using our model we can build a coherent picture to explain the average spectra together with those of the qpo and harmonic , as well as their evolution .",
    "this is an important first step towards a physical picture of both spectra and variability in black hole binaries .",
    "we have studied the spectrum of the qpo and harmonic in gx  339 - 4 using the _ rxte _ observations with the best combination of spectral and temporal resolution , and compared them to the time - averaged spectrum .",
    "our first result , by comparing power spectra in the soft and hard bands , is that the comptonising region is inhomogeneous .",
    "this is clear evidence for an additional low - energy component being present in the spectrum , at least in the softer spectra .",
    "the qpo spectrum is harder than the time - averaged one in the softer states and can be well fit using two components : thermal comptonisation together with compton reflection off an ionized disc .",
    "this matches predictions tying its origins to precession of the inner flow .",
    "the drastic change seen in the spectrum of the harmonic indicates that more than one mechanism must be able to produce it . for harder spectra",
    ", the similarity with the qpo spectrum suggests the same geometrical origin as in j1550 . for the softer observations the spectrum of the harmonic matches the soft compton component present in the time - averaged spectrum , providing a means to constrain this component .",
    "the absence of the other spectral components in the data of the harmonic places its origin , and thereby that of the additional low - energy component , at the outer edges of the hot flow .",
    "we speculate that it is related to the overlap region , with the harmonic arising as the disc penetrates the flow .",
    "which of these mechanisms dominate is likely a complex function of inclination angle and inner disc radius .",
    "we propose systematic studies of multiple sources of varying inclination as a means to test this .",
    "our results clearly show the power of combining temporal and spectral information . by adding the information from the variability , the different components in the spectrum can be constrained - something which is not possible by spectral fitting alone .",
    "a natural extension is to combine this with phase - resolved techniques ( ingram et al , in prep . ) , giving information also on possible modulation of components with orbital phase .",
    "ma is an international research fellow of the japan society for the promotion of science .",
    "cd acknowledges stfc support from grant st / l00075x/1 . this work has been partly supported by the royal swedish academy of sciences through its foundations .",
    "axelsson m. , borgonovo l. , larsson s. ,  2006 , a&a , 452 , 975 axelsson m. , hjalmarsdotter l. , done c. ,  2013 , mnras , 431 , 1987 axelsson m. , done c. , hjalmarsdotter l. ,  2014 , mnras , 438 , 657 caballero - garca m.  d. , miller j.  m. , trigo m.  d. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 692 , 1339 corbel s. , fender r.  p. , tzioumis a.  k. , et al . ,  2000 ,",
    "a&a , 359 , 251 del santo m. , malzac j. , jourdain e. , belloni t. , ubertini p.  2008 , mnras , 390 , 227 di salvo t. , done c. , ycki p.t . , burderi l. , robba n.r . ,  2001 ,",
    "apj , 547 , 1024 done , c. & gierliski , m. , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 659 done c. , gierliski m. , kubota a. , 2007 , a&arv , 15 , 1 fabian a.  c. & ross r.  r.  2010 , ssrv , 157 , 167 garca j. , dauser t. , lohfink a. , et al .",
    "2014 , apj , 782 , 76 gierliski m. & done c. , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 1083 hjalmarsdotter l. , axelsson , m. , done c. , 2015 , arxiv : 1502.07135 ibragimov a. , poutanen j. , gilfanov m. , zdziarski a.  a. , shrader c.  r. ,  2005 , mnras , 362 , 1435 ingram a. , done c. , fragile p.  c.  2009 , mnras , 397 , l101 jahoda , k. , swank , j.  h. , giles , a.  b. , et al . , 1996 , proc .",
    "spie , 2808 , 59 joinet a. , jourdain e. , malzac j. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 657 , 400 kohlemainen m. , done c. , daz trigo m. , 2011 , mnras , 416 , 311 kotov o. , churazov e. , gilfanov m.  2001 , mnras , 327 , 799 makishima k. , takahashi h. , yamada s. , et al .",
    "2008 , pasj , 60 , 585 markert t.  h. , canizares c.  r. , clark g.  w. , et al . ,  1973 ,",
    "apjl , 184 , l67 miyamoto s. & kitamoto s.  1989 , nature , 342 , 773 motta s. , muoz - darias t. , casella p. , belloni t. , homan j.  2011 , mnras , 418 , 2292 motta s.  e. , casella p. , henze m. , muoz - darias t. , sanna a. , fender r. , belloni t  2015 , mnras , 447 , 2059 muoz - darias t. , casares j. , martnez - pais i.  g. ,  2008 , mnras , 385 , 2205 muoz - darias t. , de ugarte postigo a. , russell d.  m. , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 432 , 1133 nowak m.  a. , wilms j. , vaughan b.  a. , dove j.  b. , begelman m.  c.  1999 , apj , 515 , 726 nowak m.  a. , wilms j. , dove j.  b.  2002 , mnras , 332 , 856 nowak m. a. , hanke m. , trowbridge s.n . ,",
    "et al . , 2011 , apj , 728 , 13 orosz j.  a. , steiner j.  f. , mcclintock j.  e. , et al . ,  2011 , apj , 730 , 75 pawar d.  d. , motta s. , shanthi k. , bhattacharya d. , belloni t.  2015 , mnras , 448 , 1298 plant d.  s. , fender r.  p. , ponti g. , muoz - darias t. , coriat m.  2014 , mnras , 442 , 1767 ponti g. , fender r.  p. , begelman m.  c. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 422 , l11 rao f. , belloni t. , stella l. , zhang s.  n. , li t.  2010 , apj , 714 , 1065 revnivstev m. , gilfanov m. , churazov e. , 1999 , a&a , 347 , l23 revnivstev m. , gilfanov m. , churazov e. , 2001 , a&a , 380 , 520 rothschild r. e. , blanco p. r. , gruber d. e. , et al . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 496 , 538 sobolewska , m. , a. & ycki , p.t . , 2006 ,",
    "mnras , 370,405 titarchuk l. , 1994 , apj , 434 , 313 uttley p. , mchardy i.  m. , vaughan s.  2005 , mnras , 359 , 345 uttley p. , wilkinson t. , cassatella p. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 414 , l60 veledina a. , poutanen j. , ingram a.  2013 , apj , 778 , 165 wilms j. , nowak m.a . , dove j.b . ,",
    "fender r.p .",
    ", di matteo t. ,  1999 , apj , 522 , 460 yamada s. , makishima k. , done c. , torii s. , noda h. , sakurai s. ,  2012 , pasj , 45 , 4 zdziarski a. a. , johnson w.n . , magdziarz p. , 1996 ,",
    "mnras , 283 , 193 ycki , p. , done , c. , smith d.a .",
    ", 1999 , mnras , 309 , 561"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use frequency - resolved spectroscopy to examine the energy spectra of the prominent low frequency quasi - periodic oscillation ( qpo ) and its harmonic in gx 339 - 4 . </S>",
    "<S> we track the evolution of these spectra as the source makes a transition from a bright low / hard to hard intermediate state .    in the hard / intermediate states , </S>",
    "<S> the qpo and time averaged spectra are similar and the harmonic is either undetected or similar to the qpo . by contrast , in the softer states , the harmonic is dramatically softer than the qpo spectrum and the time averaged spectrum , and the qpo spectrum is dramatically harder than the time averaged spectrum . clearly , the existance of these very different spectral shaped components mean that the time - averaged spectra are complex , as also seen by the fact that the softer spectra can not be well described by a disc , comptonisation and its reflection . </S>",
    "<S> we use the frequency resolved spectra to better constrain the model components , and find that the data are consistent with a time - averaged spectrum which has an additional low temperature , optically thick comptonisation component . </S>",
    "<S> the harmonic can be described by this additional component alone , while the qpo spectrum is similar to that of the hard comptonisation and its reflection . </S>",
    "<S> neither qpo nor harmonic show signs of the disc component even when it is strong in the time averaged spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> this adds to the growing evidence for inhomogeneous comptonisation in black hole binaries .    </S>",
    "<S> while the similarity between the harmonic and qpo spectra in the intermediate state can be produced from the angular dependence of compton scattering in a single region , this can not explain the dramatic differences seen in the soft state . </S>",
    "<S> instead , we propose that the soft compton region is located predominantly above the disc while the hard compton is from the hotter inner flow . </S>",
    "<S> our results therefore point to multiple possible mechanisms for producing harmonic features in the power spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> the dominant mechanism in a given observation is likely a function of both inclination angle and inner disc radius .    </S>",
    "<S> accretion , accretion discs  x - rays : binaries  x - rays : individual ( gx  339 - 4 ) </S>"
  ]
}