{
  "article_text": [
    "strong bending of dna plays a critical biological role in genome maintenance and regulation , most famously evident in dna - protein complexes such as those formed in conjunction with the lac repressor @xcite , the tata binding protein @xcite and the nucleosome @xcite .",
    "experiments have confirmed that these large bending fluctuations are not an artefact of dna - protein co - crystallization , and are observed in a variety of sensitive solution - phase assays @xcite . in the regime",
    "where dna is not strongly bent , worm - like chain ( wlc ) models @xcite that treat dna as a semi - flexible rod are sufficient to describe its configurational behaviour @xcite .",
    "it has been claimed , however , that strongly bent configurations can be reached much more easily than would be predicted by the wlc as parameterized to small fluctuations . in particular , deviations from wlc behaviour have been reported in experiments on cyclization @xcite , multimerization @xcite , in dna minicircles @xcite , in a stressed ring system @xcite and a molecular vice @xcite .",
    "much of the evidence for super - wlc flexibility , has , however , been contested .",
    "for example , in dna cyclization assays , cyclized molecules with @xmath0 base pairs ( bp ) @xcite were reported to be orders of magnitude more likely than predicted by the wlc model as normally parameterized .",
    "however , other authors have criticized the interpretation of the experimental results and have suggested that non - wlc behavior only begins at shorter lengths @xcite .",
    "similarly , apparent evidence of high flexibility of dna on short length scales obtained via afm @xcite has since been attributed to artefacts of the curve - fitting algorithms @xcite .    the wlc model , which assumes a harmonic cost on the local degree of bending , favours the distribution of bending strain throughout a dna molecule .",
    "however , above a certain degree of local bending the wlc model may break down because it becomes favourable for dna systems to localize strain within small regions , allowing the remainder to relax and reducing the overall cost of adopting highly bent configurations .",
    "a disruption of the b - dna structure ( including broken base pairs and/or stacking interactions ) , or `` kink '' , is a candidate motif that would allow such enhanced flexibility and localization of bending @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , although there is experimental evidence for kinking in strongly bent configurations ( reviewed for example in reference @xcite ) , it is not clear whether all of the proposed violations of wlc behaviour in the experiments listed above can be explained in this way .",
    "one reason for the lack of clarity is that a number of fundamental questions about the thermodynamic cost and basic physics associated with the formation of kinks remain open .",
    "it is therefore important to develop a sound theoretical underpinning of the underlying physics .",
    "doing so would enable a systematic comparison between distinct systems and help establish whether experimental results are self - consistent and also consistent with basic dna thermodynamics .",
    "here we use oxdna @xcite , a coarse - grained model of dna , to address these questions .",
    "oxdna incorporates a physical description of single- and double - stranded dna , including the thermodynamics of hybridization and basic mechanical properties such as persistence length and torsional modulus @xcite . as such",
    ", it is an ideal model for exploring strong bending , highlighting general properties and providing evidence as to whether the reported observations of enhanced dna flexibility are consistent with kinking as implied by the known thermodynamic and mechanical properties of dna .",
    "further , as the model is generally applicable , oxdna can be used to compare strong bending in a variety of distinct systems . here , in the first of a series of papers investigating the biophysics of highly bent dna , we consider a `` molecular vice '' @xcite .",
    "in an accompanying paper we study cyclization @xcite , and in an upcoming future publication we consider minicircles @xcite .    in particular , in this paper , we first investigate the general thermodynamics of the strongly bent regime of dna . using this insight",
    ", we corroborate the results of recent `` molecular vice '' experiments @xcite , which provide one of the most direct probes of strong dna bending . specifically , we reproduce the experimental high - salt buckling transition and approximate critical buckling length .",
    "we then directly probe the microscopic configurations responsible for this transition , validating the experimental interpretation of a kink - induced buckling transition .",
    "in an elegant set of experiments , fields _ et al .  _ deployed a `` molecular vice '' to probe the strong bending regime of dna , providing evidence of a buckling transition at high salt that can not be explained by a wlc model @xcite .",
    "they infer kinking as the physical mechanism underlying this transition .",
    "the system they devised consists of a dna hairpin and complement strand ( ) ; the hairpin has two regions , a loop composed of @xmath1 nucleotides and a predominantly poly(at ) stem composed of 49 base pairs ( 39 a ",
    "t base pairs adjacent to the loop and 10 terminal g  c base pairs ) .",
    "complement strands of different lengths are hybridized to the hairpin loop to form a duplex of @xmath2 base pairs .",
    "the hairpin acts as a force clamp , imposing a bending stress on the duplex .",
    "formation of a duplex within the loop may require part of the hairpin stem to be opened , which requires work against a salt - dependent unzipping force . stem unzipping is monitored via fret ( fluorescence resonance energy transfer ) , reporting the separation between the fluorophores attached to the first and last bases of the hairpin loop ( ) .",
    "this setup is powerful because it allows the observation of stem unzipping as a function of both the length of the complement strand and loop size .",
    "for example , at short @xmath3 , there is minimal stress on the system  it is necessary neither for the duplex to bend nor the stem of the hairpin to unzip . at long @xmath3 ( comparable to @xmath1 )",
    ", the system can not maintain full base - pairing without bending the duplex . at high salt fields",
    "_ et al .  _",
    "observe for short loop lengths unzipping of the stem as @xmath3 approaches @xmath1 base pairs .",
    "for some longer loop lengths , they then see a sharp re - zipping when @xmath3 gets even closer to @xmath1 base pairs .",
    "fields _ et al .",
    "_ argue that the high - salt behaviour can not be explained by the wlc , and infer the formation of a sharp kink in the duplex that allows re - zipping @xcite .",
    "oxdna @xcite was developed to bridge the gap between all - atom molecular dynamics simulations and continuum or analytic approaches .",
    "it has been employed successfully for many systems , reviewed in reference @xcite .",
    "most importantly for this work , oxdna has previously been shown to reproduce a range of structural transitions in response to applied stress @xcite .",
    "the philosophy of the model is to encode the well - understood and extensively characterized aspects of dna physics , such as its basic thermodynamic , mechanical and structural properties , into a model with physically - motivated interactions .",
    "briefly , each nucleotide ( sugar , phosphate and base group ) is modelled as a rigid body with three interaction sites",
    ". a complex set of anisotropic interactions between the nucleotides have been parametrized to reproduce structural , thermodynamic and mechanical properties of single- and double - stranded dna .",
    "the model is parameterized to a monovalent salt concentration of , where the electrostatic interactions are strongly screened .",
    "the thermodynamic , structural and dynamic properties of the model are fully characterized in references @xcite and @xcite .",
    "these include basic mechanical properties such as persistence length and torsional rigidity .",
    "the model has two parameterizations , average - base @xcite and sequence - dependent @xcite . in the average - base parameterization , the base pairing and stacking interactions of each base are identical ; whereas in the sequence - dependent parameterization @xcite , stacking and hydrogen - bonding interactions vary by base identity ( e.g.  a  t base pairs weaker than g  c base pairs )",
    ". we use the average - base parameterization to elucidate the fundamental thermodynamics of dna bending since this illustrates the fundamental physics more clearly .",
    "sequence - dependent thermodynamics are used for a more direct comparison with the molecular vice experiments and to elucidate sequence effects on the free - energy profile for bending .",
    "simulations to probe the free - energy cost of bending were performed with the virtual - move monte carlo ( vmmc ) algorithm ( the variant in the appendix of ref .",
    "@xcite ) in the nvt ensemble at .",
    "as the entire dna bending regime is of interest , including strongly bent states that are high in free energy , umbrella sampling @xcite was employed to efficiently sample the free - energy landscape of dna bending .",
    "the end - to - end distance @xmath4 between the base interaction sites of the first and last bases along a strand was used as an order parameter for the umbrella sampling procedure , whereby the model hamiltonian is augmented with an empirical potential that is iteratively adjusted to yield a roughly uniform sampling of the relevant values of @xmath4 .",
    "the statistical bias of this artificial potential is removed at the analysis stage .",
    "further details of simulation procedure are given in supplementary .",
    "to simplify interpretation , base pairing at the ends of the duplex were enforced through the umbrella potential to explicitly disallow `` fraying '' of duplexes .",
    "fraying is a possible mechanism for relaxation of stress in bent systems @xcite , but we do not consider it in this section as we are interested in the bending of the main body of the duplex , not its ends .",
    "we allow fraying in the molecular vice system , but , as discussed by fields _",
    "et al .  _",
    "@xcite , it is explicitly set up to inhibit fraying of the @xmath3 base pairs .",
    "results are essentially identical for any constraint in which nucleotides at either end of the duplex are constrained to be base paired ( supplementary ) ; in this article we quote results in which we constrain only the final base pairs .",
    "imposing such a constraint allows us to sensibly define and measure the end - to - end distance between the centre of the helical axis , @xmath5 , as the first and last base pairs are guaranteed to be present .",
    "error bars in reported data represent the standard error of the mean from 5 independent simulations .",
    "simulations of the molecular vice were conducted with the sequence - dependent parameterization of oxdna using the vmmc algorithm in the nvt ensemble at .",
    "error bars represent the standard error of the mean from 6 independent simulations .",
    "these simulations were performed without any biasing through the use of umbrella potentials .",
    "further details of simulation procedure are given in supplementary .",
    "our study investigates the role of several structural defects , the detection and reporting of which rely on practical definitions .",
    "namely , we require definitions of fraying , bubble formation and kinking .",
    "the identification of these defects requires , in turn , a definition of a formed base pair . following previous work @xcite",
    ", we define a base pair as formed if the hydrogen - bonding interaction between the two complementary bases is stronger than ( @xmath6 at @xmath7 ) .",
    "we define fraying as the loss of base pairs at the duplex ends , while bubbles are defined as the opening of base pairs in otherwise continuous stretches away from the duplex ends .",
    "a practical definition of a kink is less straightforward .",
    "qualitatively , a kink is an area of pronounced curvature localized to a small region .",
    "there is some diversity of opinion on the quantitative description and classification of kinks @xcite ; however , they have in common the breaking of base pairs and/or stacking . other requirements may include a change in the relative orientation of nucleotides . due to the ambiguity in the definition of a kink , we explore both structural and energetic definitions .",
    "structurally , we define a kink using the relative orientation of consecutive nucleotides . in oxdna ,",
    "the orientation of each nucleotide is unequivocally determined by two orthogonal unit vectors , the base - backbone vector and the base - normal vector .",
    "the base - backbone vector connects the backbone and base interaction sites of each nucleotide .",
    "the model is designed such that , in a relaxed duplex , the base - normal vector at index @xmath8 , @xmath9 , and at the consecutive index @xmath10 , @xmath11 , are approximately parallel ; that is , @xmath12 .",
    "a kink is defined to be present if @xmath13 , a condition implying that the orientation of consecutive nucleotides differs by more than .",
    "energetically , we define a kink as a disruption in stacking between adjacent base pairs , where the stacking potential energy is less than one - tenth its typical value in a duplex ( ) . for the oxdna model , the structural and energetic criteria for a kink behave very similarly when kinks are reasonably probable due to strong bending of the duplex , as shown in ( c ) .",
    "in this regime , the detection of a kink is reasonably unambiguous and straightforward as favourable kinks are necessarily strongly bent , and both criteria do a reasonable job of identifying them . at larger end - to - end distances ,",
    "the two criteria give distinct results , and caution should be used when interpreting the data ; a fuller discussion is provided in supplementary .",
    "we start our discussion by characterising the basic thermodynamics of dna bending in oxdna .",
    "we simulate a 30-bp dna duplex and report the free - energy profile @xmath14 as a function of the end - to - end distance @xmath5 ( ( b ) ) .",
    "the free energy of duplex bending has two distinct regimes , indicated by a change in slope at @xmath15 .",
    "the change in slope of the free - energy profile in ( b ) correlates with a crossover from continuously bent to kinked macrostates ( ( c ) ) .",
    "representative oxdna structures for the continuously bent and kinked 30-bp duplex ( ( a ) ) reveal that duplex kinking typically induces a bubble at the kink ( further quantified in supplementary ) and that this kink is located near the centre of the duplex ( supplementary ) .     and @xmath16 , respectively .",
    "* ( b ) * free energy of bending @xmath17 for oxdna ( ) , with the decomposed free energies of the continuously bent ( ) and kinked ( ) states overlaid .",
    "oxdna is compared to the wlc model approximation of becker _",
    "et al .  _",
    "@xcite ( ) . the comparison is fit - free , using known oxdna parameters for persistence length ( ) and rise per base pair along the helical axis ( ) @xcite note that , rather than setting the minimum @xmath17 to be zero as elsewhere in the text , we normalize @xmath17 so that @xmath18 in both cases . * ( c ) * probability of kinking @xmath19 using energetic ( ) and structural ( ) criteria for a kink , which are based upon disruption of stacking and base orientation , respectively . ,",
    "width=317 ]    in ( b ) we also compare oxdna results to the wlc model ; specifically to the analytic approximation to the wlc end - to - end distance developed by becker _",
    "et al .  _",
    "this approach provides a good description of wlc behaviour across the near - rigid , semiflexible and flexible regimes .",
    "as expected , agreement between the wlc ( when using the base pair rise and persistence length appropriate to oxdna ) and oxdna is excellent for intermediate @xmath5 .",
    "the deviations most pertinent to this paper arise at @xmath20 where the oxdna model develops a kink that allows the system to lower its free energy compared to the wlc model .",
    "deviations also arise at longer @xmath5 near the dna contour length @xmath21 , because the wlc neglects the finite intrinsic extensibility of dna . additionally ,",
    "the wlc does not account for the finite thickness of dna , which causes excluded volume effects at very short @xmath5 , reported by oxdna as a sharp rise in @xmath22 at @xmath23 .    ,",
    "the duplex dna bending free energy , as a function of reduced end - to - end distance @xmath24 .",
    "error bars are comparable to the line thickness . *",
    "( b ) * length dependence of duplex dna kinking .",
    "the structural criterion for kinking is shown ; results using the energetic criterion are very similar in the kink transition region .",
    ", width=317 ]    according to the wlc model , the enthalpic cost of bending a duplex to some fraction of its contour length decreases with increasing duplex length .",
    "by contrast , there is no obvious reason why the free - energetic cost of forming a kink at the centre of the duplex should depend strongly on duplex length .",
    "we therefore expect that , as duplex length is increased , the dna will need to be relatively more bent ( smaller @xmath24 ) to favour the formation of kinks . for sufficiently long dna , we expect to see unkinked duplexes even for small @xmath24 .",
    "these expectations are confirmed in ; long duplexes ( @xmath25 ) do not show any substantial kinking at any @xmath5 , and for shorter duplexes the length - dependence of the kink transition is as expected . the re - entrant behavior where @xmath19 drops again at extremely small @xmath24 arises from a change in geometry that is enforced by excluded volume effects ; for a detailed discussion see supplementary .",
    "we next consider the question of what is the free - energy cost of kink formation , a question which turns out not to be so easy to answer unambiguously .",
    "one natural approach is to define a free - energy cost @xmath26 that corresponds to that at the middle of the kink transition , e.g.  @xmath27 for the 30-bp duplex in .",
    "this quantity is essentially a measure of work that must be done on the duplex by pulling its ends together before kink formation occurs .",
    "this numerical value is comparable to the estimate of fields _ et al .",
    "_ for `` @xmath28 '' @xcite , the bending stress released upon kinking for a similar system ( in that kink formation is driven by pulling two ends of a duplex together )",
    ". however , free energies must be carefully defined if quantitative comparisons are to be made . in particular ,",
    "neither @xmath26 nor @xmath28 is a generic free - energy cost of kink formation that can be directly compared with other systems in which kink transitions may occur .",
    "furthermore , even when the bending stress is applied in the same way , @xmath29 is not a constant , but , as we show in supplementary for the current system , is a function of duplex length ( because the degree of bending at the kink transition depends on length ) .",
    "one might instead define a quantity @xmath30 through the probability of spontaneous kink formation ( in the absence of stress ) at a specific location in the duplex .",
    "@xmath30 would in principle be directly measurable from kinking probabilities of relaxed duplexes .",
    "although in principle this would be expected to be a generic ( sequence - dependent ) quantity , its value will be strongly dependent on the criteria used to identify kinks ( supplementary ) .",
    "this is in sharp contrast to @xmath29 , which is almost identical for both criteria used to identify kinking in this work . in the presence of sharp bending ,",
    "the overwhelming majority of disruptions to the basic duplex structure are sharply bent regions with broken stacking interactions , which are unambiguously `` kinks '' . in an unstressed system , however , the most common deviations from the basic duplex are not unambiguously identifiable as kinks , making the definition of a meaningful @xmath30 problematic .    even given well - defined criteria for identifying kinks , @xmath31 is not directly relatable to @xmath26 .",
    "two reasons for this difference are particularly evident in the context of bending duplexes .",
    "firstly , to be a generic quantity , @xmath31 must be defined through the probability that a kink occurs that is centred on a specific base pair or ( base pair step ) in a duplex . in the context of duplex bending ,",
    "however , kink formation can occur over a finite range of locations ( supplementary ) , although kinks near to the centre are preferred , and this fact is reflected in @xmath29 .",
    "secondly , in pulling the ends of the duplex together to @xmath32 , we do work on both the unkinked _ and _ the kinked state .",
    "although kinks are more flexible than unkinked duplexes they still have a finite resistance to bending , due both to entropic effects and the need to strain the kink itself , as evidenced from the post - kinking slope in @xmath17 in ( b ) . to compensate , we must apply even more stress ( than if the kink was completely flexible ) to the system to reach the point at which kinks become favourable relative to unkinked duplexes , tending to increase @xmath26 .    that the bending stress at which kinking occurs in a specific system ( @xmath29 )",
    "is not equivalent to the intrinsic cost of kink formation ( @xmath30 ) emphasizes the difficulty in comparing between distinct experimental setups , in which the factors contributing to @xmath29 may well be different .",
    "for example , in some setups , it may be possible to relieve stress by kinking at one of a number of positions , as observed in simulations of short minicircles @xcite . in others , such as the molecular vice @xcite",
    ", the kinking location may be constrained to be near the mid - point of a duplex .",
    "the free - energetic cost of bending the kinked state may also be distinct in different systems .",
    "unless care is taken , such differences will hamper quantitative comparison of free energies .",
    "analytic models @xcite used to extract free energies from data must therefore be carefully chosen if quantitative comparisons are to be drawn .",
    "indeed , one of the advantages of explicit simulation with coarse - grained models is that direct comparisons can be made between distinct systems at the level of physical observables , rather than indirectly via free energies derived from analytic models . in this work ,",
    "we will only make direct comparisons of @xmath29 for systems that are identical but for the dna sequences , in which case differences will largely reflect differences in the intrinsic cost of kinking , @xmath30 .        given that the relative free energies of bending and kinking can also be perturbed with sequence variation @xcite",
    ", we expect that sequence variation should affect the kink transition .",
    "we report sequence dependence in the free energy @xmath17 of bending for a 28-bp duplex ( ( a , d ) ) .",
    "it is clear from these data that the poly(at ) sequence undergoes kinking more easily than the poly(gc ) sequence ; @xmath29 is lower , presumably due to the weaker base - pairing in the poly(at ) sequence .",
    "a secondary observation is that the poly(at ) sequence is slightly more flexible prior to the kink transition in oxdna .",
    "these two effects should , in principle , have opposing consequences for @xmath32 , tending to increase and decrease @xmath32 respectively .",
    "it is clear from ( d ) , however , that the ease of kinking dominates and poly(at ) has a longer @xmath32 .",
    "we also observe that a gc sequence has a slightly lower @xmath29 than the average - base model ( supplementary ) .",
    "this behavior is expected since the duplex will kink and bend preferentially in at - rich regions . due to the lack of easily kinkable",
    "regions , the average - base model is harder to kink than would be navely expected from an ensemble of gc - content sequences .",
    "having investigated sequence variation , we now turn our attention to a system in which we introduce a mismatch , a structural motif that substitutes a base pair with a non - watson - crick pair .",
    "it is reasonable to expect that kinking will localize to the mismatch , provided it is conveniently positioned , and @xmath29 will be reduced . following fields _ et al .  _",
    "@xcite , a mismatch was introduced at the mid - point of an otherwise intact duplex .",
    "we investigated gg , gt , aa and cc mismatches .",
    "as expected , oxdna reports that mismatched sequences have a lower @xmath29 and undergo the kink transition at longer @xmath32 ( ( b , e ) ) .",
    "the change in @xmath29 is consistent with typical free energy costs associated with mismatches @xcite : oxdna reports for the perfectly - matched duplex versus for the mismatches , a deviation of @xmath33 ( see ) .",
    "fields _ et al .",
    "_ also found evidence that ease of kinking was correlated with the sequence - dependent mismatch cost predicted by the santalucia model of dna thermodynamics @xcite .",
    "oxdna s treatment of mismatches is extremely simple , neglecting any residual interactions or possible steric clashes between geometrically incompatible bases .",
    "consequently , it does not strongly distinguish between different mismatches , and does not reproduce sequence - dependent mismatch variation .",
    "like a mismatch , a nick , which is a break in an otherwise contiguous stretch of dna whereby the backbone phosphodiester bond is severed , is a structural motif expected to impact dna bending . in the relaxed state , base pairing is preserved and coaxial stacking may occur between the adjacent , but now non - covalently bonded , nucleotides .",
    "it is relatively easy for a nicked system to give sharp kinks whilst only disrupting stacking and not hydrogen - bonding ( ( f ) ) .",
    "we observe , unsurprisingly , that the presence of a nick dramatically reduces the bending free energy at the kink transition ( ( c ) ) . in accordance with this",
    "lower bending free energy ( @xmath34 ) , the crossover from continuously bent to kinked regimes is shifted to larger @xmath32 by about @xmath35 .",
    "it is also worth noting that dna with a nick is far easier to bend then normal duplex dna after the kink transition : the post - kinking slope for the nicked system ( ( c ) ) is much shallower than for the intact duplex ( ( b ) ) .",
    "the absence of the constraint of the additional backbone bond in the nicked system makes extremely sharp bending very easy once coaxial stacking has been broken ; this contrast highlights the work that must be done to strongly bend a kinked duplex without a nick .",
    "we note that for the nicked system , a more substantial difference between energetic and structural criteria for kinks can be seen ( ( f ) ) .",
    "this distinction arises because nicked systems undergo significant kinking at relatively large @xmath5 , when it is less advantageous for kinked sections to bend extremely sharply ; hence , because the structural criterion implies an effective angle @xmath36 between consecutive bases , it can underestimate the prevalence of kinks .",
    "having rigorously explored bending in a generic context , we turn to the `` molecular vice '' of fields _ et al .  _",
    "@xcite , which provides an exquisite experimental probe of the behaviour of duplex dna under bending stress .",
    "we use oxdna to explore the microscopic configurations that underlie their experimental observations .",
    "we will show that our findings are compatible with the observations of fields _ et al .",
    "_ at high salt concentrations . in our simulations ,",
    "the thymines located at the first and last bases of the loop were chosen as the reporter for hairpin separation since they are the closest analogues to the experimental setup .",
    "specifically , we define @xmath37 as the separation between these bases centres of mass .",
    "we begin our discussion by considering the system with a loop length of @xmath38 nucleotides and a variable length duplex of @xmath3 base pairs ( ) .",
    "oxdna reveals distinct behaviour for small , medium and large values of @xmath3 .",
    "these behaviours are related to the most prevalent deformation modes from the canonical relaxed duplex dna structure at each given @xmath3 length .",
    "possible deformations to consider involve unzipping of the hairpin stem , and fraying , bending or kinking of the duplex .     and variable @xmath3 . *",
    "( a)(i - iv ) * representative structures for @xmath39bp , respectively . stem - end thymines ( * yellow * ) are used for fluorophore attachment and reporting hairpin separation .",
    "a kink is highlighted with an * arrow*. * ( b ) * @xmath37 is the separation of the two thymines bases at the interface between the hairpin stem and loop . *",
    "( c ) * @xmath19 is the probability of kinking in the duplex via the structural criterion . *",
    "( d ) * @xmath40 and @xmath41 are the number of disrupted base pairs via fraying in the duplex ( ) and unzipping of the hairpin stem ( ) , respectively . , width=317 ]    . * ( a ) * kinking probability @xmath19 via the structural criterion . *",
    "( b ) * hairpin separation @xmath37 .",
    "maxima in @xmath37 are highlighted ( black circles ) .",
    "* ( c ) * the experimental fret efficiency @xmath42 as reported in ref .",
    "the available data is for @xmath43 .",
    ", width=317 ]    for short duplexes ( @xmath44 ) relative to the loop length @xmath38 , the hairpin separation @xmath37 is comparable to that of a hairpin without an annealed complement strand ( ( b ) ) .",
    "( c ) and ( d ) show that kinking and fraying of the duplex , and hairpin unzipping , are small , and simulation snapshots such as ( a)(ii ) do not show significantly bent duplexes . in this regime ,",
    "the duplexes are too short to exert significant stress on the system .    for intermediate - length duplexes ( @xmath45 )",
    ", @xmath37 increases due to stem unzipping ( ( b ) ) .",
    "the duplex is sufficiently long that the system can not maintain full base - pairing without experiencing considerable mechanical stress .",
    "the system must either bend the duplex , or suffer a reduction in base pairing ( either via unzipping the stem or fraying at the ends of the duplex ) .",
    "in fact , the system adopts configurations in which the deformation is shared between continuous bending of the duplex and unzipping , as can be seen from ( a)(iii ) .",
    "the bending energy released for each base pair unzipped decreases as the duplex gets straighter , whereas the cost of unzipping each base pair in the stem is approximately constant .",
    "the system can therefore minimize its free energy by adopting a state which combines unzipping with moderate bending . unzipping the hairpin stem is favoured over fraying the duplex for two reasons ; firstly , stem unzipping contributes two nucleotides worth of single - stranded dna to the hairpin loop ( thereby reducing the tension ) , versus a single base for fraying the duplex . secondly , the weak poly(at ) stem is easier to melt than the strongly binding gc - rich regions at both ends of the duplex ( this was a deliberate design choice of fields _ et al .  _",
    "@xcite ) .    for long duplexes ( @xmath46 ) , @xmath37 decreases by re - zipping the stem and kinking , as reported in ( b - d ) ; a typical kinked structure is shown in ( a)(iv ) . increasing @xmath3 increases the stress in the system , leading to stronger unzipping and bending costs if the duplex does not kink",
    "the cost of kinking , however , is much less strongly dependent on @xmath3 ( as was discussed in the general analysis of bending ) .",
    "thus at sufficiently large @xmath3 , it is favourable to form a kink in the centre of the duplex , relieving the bending stress elsewhere and reducing the need to unzip .",
    "as well as considering the behaviour at fixed @xmath47 , it is instructive to analyse the system as @xmath1 is varied , focusing on the highly stressed regime of @xmath48 ( ( a ) and ( b ) ) .",
    "we observe three regimes : for small @xmath49 , unzipping and continuous bending are primarily observed , with almost no signal of kinking in @xmath37 . for @xmath50 , we see a sharp kink transition in which kinked states become dominant as @xmath51 ( @xmath52 sits near the crossover between these regimes ) . for larger",
    "@xmath1 , this transition is less pronounced , eventually fading away .",
    "additional simulations at @xmath53 , with @xmath54 , show the kinking probability decaying from @xmath55 to @xmath56 ( supplementary ) .    why does a kink transition occur only for a finite range of @xmath1 ?",
    "unzipping of base pairs is extremely effective at relaxing stress for short duplexes : each unzipped base pair opened allows the duplex to straighten substantially .",
    "thus at short lengths , stress is primarily relaxed by unzipping , duplex bending is small and kinking does not come into play . as the duplex gets longer , each unzipped base pair has less of a relaxing effect on the duplex , as it provides a smaller contribution relative to the overall length discrepancy between the intrinsic length of the duplex and the end - to - end distance enforced by the vice",
    ". consequently , the bending of the duplex is enhanced , and eventually a kink transition is observed when this bending is sufficiently severe . for longer duplexes , the enthalpic cost of continuously bending to satisfy the separation imposed by the vice drops with duplex length ( this can be shown directly using the wlc expression of becker _",
    "et al .  _",
    "@xcite ) , whereas kink formation does not get easier .",
    "thus the driving force for kinking is reduced , and kinking is absent at sufficiently long loop lengths .",
    "another notable point is that the maximum in @xmath57 prior to the kink transition ( indicated by black dots in ( b ) ) drops with increasing @xmath1 at values of @xmath1 for which kinking is observable .",
    "why should this be ?",
    "as mentioned above , unzipping of stem base pairs is increasingly ineffective for larger systems , and bending of the duplex becomes increasingly easy .",
    "therefore the degree to which the system unzips as @xmath51 is reduced for larger systems , and @xmath57 does not grow as significantly prior to kinking .",
    "we now compare the oxdna results to those of fields _ et al .  _",
    "@xcite . unlike oxdna , fields _ et al .",
    "_ could not directly observe kinked macrostates .",
    "instead , they inferred kinking from the non - monotonic behavior of the fret signal between dyes attached to the first two bases of the loop ( a proxy for unzipping - ( c ) ) .",
    "they defined a critical buckling length at high - salt , which they interpreted as the onset of localized bending via kinking , as a local minimum in the fret signal .",
    "we can define an analogous quantity in oxdna , the maximum in @xmath58 for a given @xmath1 .    in their higher salt experiments , fields _ et al .",
    "_ saw evidence of unzipping and no kinking for @xmath59 , identified non - monotonic behavior of fret for @xmath60 and saw no substantial change in the fret signal with @xmath3 for larger values of @xmath1 . broadly speaking ,",
    "these three regimes are consistent with our observations : kink transitions occur for intermediate values of @xmath1 , with pure unzipping at smaller values and no unzipping or kinking at larger values .",
    "quantitatively , we observe the beginning of a kink transition for @xmath61 , slightly earlier than fields _",
    "et al . _ , and see evidence of kinking at larger values of @xmath1 .",
    "the @xmath3 values at which kink transitions occur for @xmath62 and @xmath63 in oxdna are within two base pairs of those inferred by fields _",
    ", as can be seen in ( c ) ( clearly , however , inferring the ` exact ' onset of kinking is not trivial from the experimental data )",
    ".    the quantitative consistency of results may be even stronger than immediately apparent .",
    "oxdna is parametrized at , meaning that the stem of the vice should be somewhat more resistant to unzipping than in the experiments , which were performed at , perhaps explaining the onset of kinking for @xmath52 that is not apparent in the work of fields _ et al .  _",
    "( for additional discussion , please see supplementary ) consistent with this argument , fields _ et al .",
    "_ do not find evidence for kinking at all at much lower salt concentrations , when the stem of the vice is less stable .",
    "slightly smaller values of @xmath3 at which buckling occurs for a given @xmath1 in oxdna may also be explicable in this way .",
    "our results for larger values of @xmath1 also suggest that although kinking occurs , it does so following an increasingly small amount of unzipping .",
    "this is actually consistent with the observations of fields _ et al .",
    "_  compare the drop in fret prior to kinking for @xmath38 and @xmath64 .",
    "we posit that unzipping prior to kinking may be undetectable through the methodology of fields _ et al .  _ for @xmath65 .",
    "there is a highly non - linear relationship between fret signal and fluorophore separation , which is roughly equivalent to @xmath37 .",
    "fret is most sensitive near the frster radius , @xmath66 for the cy3b / alexa647 fluorophore pair used to probe stem unzipping .",
    "oxdna reports @xmath67 for @xmath68 , suggesting that it is possible that kinking occurs in experiment at larger values of @xmath1 without sufficient change in fret signal for it to be observable .",
    "oxdna does suggest , however , that kinking is never observed when @xmath1 is large enough that @xmath48 duplexes undergo continuous bending .",
    "in this paper we have provided a full characterization of the thermodynamics of dna bending in a coarse - grained model , oxdna . when weakly bent , oxdna is well - described by the worm - like chain ( wlc ) model .",
    "however , if a sufficiently strong degree of bending is imposed , oxdna tends to adopt an alternative conformation in which the strain is localized in a small region of disrupted base - pairing and stacking interactions .",
    "the cost of such local kinks are compensated by the relaxation of the rest of the molecule .",
    "such alternative modes of relaxation are not captured by the wlc model and lead to an enhanced probability of sharp bends .",
    "although a kink is far more flexible than canonical b - dna , bending is not completely free .",
    "conformations are more restricted than for a duplex with a nick , for example , which is not constrained by two continuous backbones .",
    "our results enable us to identify the end - to - end constraint that is sufficient to cause kinking ( or localized bending ) .",
    "short duplexes exhibit localized bending at relatively larger end - to - end distance than long duplexes , while sufficiently long duplexes ( @xmath69 ) do not undergo kinking even if the ends are held as close together as possible ; they are long enough to achieve such a conformation through reasonably gentle bending distributed throughout the molecule . additionally , at - rich sequences exhibit localized bending at longer end - to - end distance than gc - rich sequences , due to the lower cost of disrupting weaker interactions .",
    "our analysis of kinking reveals that one must be extremely careful in inferring free energies of kinking from specific systems .",
    "a natural definition of @xmath30 would be through the probability of spontaneous kink formation in relaxed dna at a specific site ",
    "this should be a generic property depending on the local sequence , and would be the quantity measurable if relaxed duplexes were examined for kinking . if kinking is enforced through external bending of duplex dna , however , the amount of work that must be done on the duplex state to enforce a transition , @xmath29 , is potentially quite distinct from @xmath30 .",
    "reasons include the fact that work may also be done in bending the kinked state to reach the point of transition , and the fact that specific experimental systems ( such as the molecular vice @xcite ) may favour kink formation at certain locations whereas other systems ( such as dna minicircles @xcite ) may allow kinks anywhere .",
    "these considerations make direct comparisons of free - energies of kinking as inferred through simple analytic models difficult , hindering the comparison of kinking in distinct experimental systems .",
    "computational models such as oxdna have the virtue that they allow comparison between different experimental systems in which kinking has been hypothesized , as they can be directly simulated with the same model and experimentally comparable observables can be computed . in particular , physical factors such as the work done in bending a kink , or the preference for some kink locations over others in an experimental setup , should be naturally incorporated ( at least at a semi - quantitative level ) .",
    "coarse - grained models parametrized to reproduce basic dna mechanics and thermodynamics therefore offer a valuable tool for establishing whether proposed observations of kinking are consistent with each other and our current knowledge of dna .    to this end , we have simulated the `` molecular vice '' of fields _ et al .  _",
    "@xcite , a direct probe of dna bending . in this experiment ,",
    "the hybridization of a strand to a hairpin loop can lead to a range of behaviours interpreted by fields _",
    "_ as duplex bending , kinking and hairpin stem unzipping dependent on the length of the strand and hairpin loop .",
    "our results are consistent with the observations of fields _ et al .",
    "_ , support their interpretation that kinking is responsible for rezipping at high salt , and provide a more detailed mechanistic perspective on the data .",
    "we also propose that duplex kinking might be present for longer duplexes than can be directly inferred from the experimental data , due to the limits of fret precision and minimal unzipping prior to kinking .",
    "oxdna is a simplified model , and the level of agreement with fields _ et al .",
    "_ should not be over - interpreted .",
    "although reproduction of the data is evidence that the model is well - founded , a number of modelling simplifications , and the slight difference in salt conditions in experiment and oxdna , might give rise to small quantitative deviations .",
    "the important point is that the general agreement between the experimental data and oxdna helps to further validate fields _",
    "et al .  _",
    "s inferral of kinking , and to show that this behaviour is consistent with the known thermodynamics and mechanics of dna as captured by the oxdna model .",
    "furthermore , we have recently also performed careful comparisons between oxdna simulations and experiments on dna cyclization @xcite and minicircles @xcite .",
    "reasonable consistency with experiment in these studies allows us to conclude that the experimental evidence of kinking in these systems is broadly consistent , and gives us further confidence that oxdna describes the basic physics of kinking well .",
    "this consistency is particularly important given the controversy surrounding the existence of kinks and enhanced dna flexibility @xcite .",
    "we note that our observation that kinking may go undetected for intermediate loop sizes in the setup of fields _ et al .",
    "_ is potentially important in this regard ; otherwise the absence of kinking for fairly short @xmath1 might be surprising when compared to digestion assays on minicircles @xcite , particularly as simple mechanical arguments suggest that the geometry of torsionally relaxed minicircles is less conducive to kinking than the geometry of the molecular vice .",
    "this work was supported by the engineering and physical sciences research council [ ep / i001352/1 ] , the national science foundation graduate research fellowship program , the national institutes of health national heart , lung and blood institute , wolfson college , oxford , and university college , oxford .",
    "_ conflict of interest statement_. none declared .",
    "the authors acknowledge the use of the computing facilities of oxford advanced research computing and the e - infrastructure south iridis high performance computing facility .    10    lewis , m. , chang , g. , horton , n.  c. , kercher , m.  a. , pace , h.  c. , schumacher , m.  a. , brennan , r.  g. , and lu , p. ( 1996 ) crystal structure of the lactose operon repressor and its complexes with dna and inducer .",
    "_ science , _ * 271 * , 12471254 .",
    "nikolov , d.  b. , chen , h. , halay , e.  d. , hoffman , a. , roeder , r.  g. , and burley , s.  k. ( 1996 ) crystal structure of a human tata box - binding protein / tata element complex .",
    "usa , _ * 93 * , 48624867 .",
    "richmond , t.  j. and davey , c.  a. ( 2003 ) the structure of dna in the nucleosome core .",
    "_ nature , _ * 423 * , 145150 .",
    "widom , j. ( 2001 ) role of dna sequence in nucleosome stability and dynamics .",
    "biophys . ,",
    "_ * 34 * , 269324 .",
    "haeusler , a.  r. , goodson , k.  a. , lillian , t.  d. , wang , x. , goyal , s. , perkins , n.  c. , and kahn , j.  d. ( 2012 ) fret studies of a landscape of lac repressor - mediated dna loops .",
    "acids res . , _ * 40 * , 44324445 .",
    "davis , n.  a. , majee , s.  s. , and kahn , j.  d. ( 1999 ) tata box dna deformation with and without the tata box - binding protein .",
    "biol . , _ * 291 * , 249265 .",
    "shimada , j. and yamakawa , h. ( 1984 ) ring - closure probabilities for twisted wormlike chains .",
    "application to dna .",
    "_ macromolecules , _ * 17 * , 689698 .",
    "thirumalai , d. and ha , b .- y .",
    "( 1997 ) statistical mechanics of semiflexible chains : a meanfield variational approach .",
    "_ arxiv : cond - mat/9705200,_.    mazur , a.  k. ( 2007 ) wormlike chain theory and bending of short dna .",
    "lett . , _ * 98 * , 218102 .",
    "becker , n.  b. , rosa , a. , and everaers , r. ( 2010 ) the radial distribution function of worm - like chains .",
    "j. e , _ * 32 * , 5369 .",
    "shore , d. and baldwin , r.  l. ( 1983 ) energetics of dna twisting : i. relation between twist and cyclization probability .",
    ", _ * 170 * , 957981 .",
    "bustamante , c. , marko , j.  f. , siggia , e.  d. , and smith , s.  b. ( 1994 ) entropic elasticity of @xmath70-phage dna .",
    "_ science , _ * 265 * , 15991600 .",
    "du , q. , smith , c. , shiffeldrim , n. , vologodskaia , m. , and vologodskii , a. ( 2005 ) cyclization of short dna fragments and bending fluctuations of the double helix .",
    "natl . acad .",
    "usa , _ * 102 * , 53975402",
    ".    cloutier , t.  e. and widom , j. ( 2004 ) spontaneous sharp bending of double - stranded dna . _",
    "cell , _ * 14 * , 355362 .",
    "vafabakhsh , r. and ha , t. ( 2012 ) extreme bendability of dna less than 100 base pairs long revealed by single - molecule cyclization .",
    "_ science , _ * 337 * , 10971101 .",
    "le , t.  t. and kim , h.  d. ( 2014 ) probing the elastic limit of dna bending .",
    "acids res .",
    ", _ * 42 * , 1078610794 .",
    "podtelezhnikov , a.  a. , mao , c. , seeman , n.  c. , and vologodskii , a. ( 2000 ) multimerization - cyclization of dna fragments as a method of conformational analysis .",
    "_ biophys .",
    "j. , _ * 79 * , 26922704 .",
    "du , q. , kotlyar , a. , and vologodskii , a. ( 2008 ) kinking the double helix by bending deformation .",
    "acids res . , _ * 36 * , 11201128 .",
    "demurtas , d. , amzallag , a. , rawdon , e.  j. , maddocks , j.  h. , dubochet , j. , and stasiak , a. ( 2009 ) bending modes of dna directly addressed by cryo - electron microscopy of dna minicircles .",
    "acids res . , _",
    "* 37 * , 112 .",
    "qu , h. , tseng , c .- y . , wang , y. , levine , a.  j. , and zocchi , g. ( 2010 ) the elastic energy of sharply bent nicked dna .",
    "_ epl , _ * 90 * , 18003 .",
    "qu , h. , wang , y. , tseng , c .- y . , and zocchi , g. ( 2011 ) critical torque for kink formation in double - stranded dna",
    "x , _ * 1 * , 021008 .",
    "qu , h. and zocchi , g. ( 2011 ) the complete bending energy function for nicked dna .",
    "_ epl , _ * 94 * , 18003 .",
    "kim , c. , lee , o .- c . , kim , j .- y . , sung , w. , and lee , n.  k. ( 2015 ) dynamic release of bending stress in short dsdna by formation of a kink and forks .",
    ", _ * 54 * , 16",
    ".    fields , a.  p. , meyer , e.  a. , and cohen , a.  e. ( 2013 ) euler buckling and nonlinear kinking of double - stranded dna .",
    "acids res . , _ * 41 * , 98819890 .",
    "vologodskii , a. , du , q. , and frank - kamenetskii , m.  d. ( 2013 ) bending of short dna helices .",
    "_ artificial dna : pna & xna , _ * 4 * , 13 .",
    "vologodskii , a. and frank - kamenetskii , m.  d. ( 2013 ) strong bending of the dna double helix .",
    "acids res . , _",
    "* 41 * , 67856792 .",
    "wiggins , p.  a. , van  der heijden , t. , moreno - herrero , f. , spakowitz , a. , phillips , r. , widom , j. , dekker , c. , and nelson , p.  c. ( 2006 ) high flexibility of dna on short length scales probed by atomic force microscopy .",
    "nanotechnol . , _ * 1 * , 137141",
    ".    mazur , a.  k. and maaloum , m. ( 2014 ) dna flexibility on short length scales probed by atomic force microscopy .",
    "_ * 112 * , 068104 .",
    "crick , f. h.  c. and klug , a. ( 1975 ) kinky helix .",
    "_ nature , _ * 255 * , 530533 .",
    "yan , j. and marko , j.  f. ( 2004 ) localized single - stranded bubble mechanism for cyclization of short double helix dna .",
    "lett . , _ * 93 * , 108108 .",
    "mitchell , j.  s. , laughton , c.  a. , and harris , s.  a. ( 2011 ) atomistic simulations reveal bubbles , kinks and wrinkles in supercoiled dna .",
    "acids res .",
    ", _ * 39 * , 39283938 .",
    "sivak , d.  a. and geissler , p.  l. ( 2012 ) consequences of local inter - strand dehybridization for large - amplitude bending fluctuations of double - stranded dna .",
    "_ j. chem . phys . , _ * 136 * , 045102 .",
    "ouldridge , t.  e. , louis , a.  a. , and doye , j. p.  k. ( 2011 ) structural , mechanical , and thermodynamic properties of a coarse - grained dna model . _ j. chem .",
    "_ * 134 * , 085101 .",
    "ouldridge , t.  e. ( 2012 ) coarse - grained modelling of dna and dna self - assembly , springer , berlin .",
    "ulc , p. , romano , f. , ouldridge , t.  e. , rovigatti , l. , doye , j. p.  k. , and louis , a.  a. ( 2012 ) sequence - dependent thermodynamics of a coarse - grained dna model . _ j. chem .",
    "_ * 137 * , 135101 .",
    "harrison , r.  m. , romano , f. , ouldridge , t.  e. , louis , a.  a. , and doye , j. p.  k. ( 2015 ) coarse - grained modelling of strong dna bending ii : cyclization .",
    "acids res . , _ _",
    "submitted_.    harrison , r.  m. , romano , f. , ouldridge , t.  e. , louis , a.  a. , and doye , j. p.  k. ( 2015 ) coarse - grained modelling of dna minicircles .",
    "_ to be submitted,_.    doye , j. p.  k. , ouldridge , t.  e. , louis , a.  a. , romano , f. , ulc , p. , matek , c. , snodin , b. e.  k. , rovigatti , l. , schreck , j.  s. , harrison , r.  m. , and smith , w. p.  j. ( 2013 ) coarse - graining dna for simulations of dna nanotechnology .",
    ", _ * 15 * , 2039520414 .",
    "matek , c. , ouldridge , t.  e. , levy , a. , doye , j. p.  k. , and louis , a.  a. ( 2012 ) dna cruciform arms nucleate through a correlated but asynchronous cooperative mechanism .",
    "_ j. phys .",
    "b , _ * 116 * , 1161611625 .",
    "romano , f. , chakraborty , d. , doye , j. p.  k. , ouldridge , t.  e. , and louis , a.  a. ( 2013 ) coarse - grained simulations of dna overstretching .",
    "_ j. chem .",
    "_ * 138 * , 085101 .",
    "matek , c. , ouldridge , t.  e. , doye , j. p.  k. , and louis , a.  a. ( 2015 ) plectoneme tip bubbles : coupled denaturation and writhing in supercoiled dna . _ scientific reports , _ * 5 * , 7655 .",
    "whitelam , s. , feng , e.  h. , hagan , m.  f. , and geissler , p.  l. ( 2009 ) the role of collective motion in examples of coarsening and self - assembly .",
    "_ soft matter , _ * 5 * , 12511262 .",
    "torrie , g. and valleau , j. ( 1977 ) nonphysical sampling distributions in monte carlo free - energy estimation : umbrella sampling .",
    "_ j. comput .",
    "* 23 * , 187199 .",
    "geggier , s. and vologodskii , a. ( 2010 ) sequence dependence of dna bending rigidity .",
    "usa , _ * 107 * , 1542115426 .",
    "santalucia , j. and hicks , d. ( 2004 ) the thermodynamics of dna structural motifs .",
    "biom . , _ * 33 * , 415440 .    * supplementary material for `` coarse - grained modelling of strong dna bending i : thermodynamics and comparison to an experimental molecular vice '' *",
    "bending simulations were performed in three phases : exploratory , equilibration and production . in the exploratory phase , we iteratively adjusted the umbrella sampling biasing potential to yield a flat probability distribution @xmath71 , where @xmath4 is the end - to - end distance between the base interaction sites of the first and last bases on a single strand using a discrete potential with increments of . as stated in the main text ,",
    "the duplexes were constrained not to fray , allowing us to sample in terms of @xmath5 , the end - to - end distance between the centres of the helical axis at the first and last base pairs , choosing an @xmath5 bin - width of .",
    "non - native base - pairing was also forbidden . as the iteration was performed manually , simulation times varied in the range vmmc steps per particle .    in the equilibration phase , we equilibrated the system for vmmc steps per particle using the aforementioned umbrella biasing potential .",
    "adequate sampling ( number of transitions between end - to - end distance bins ) and decorrelation ( via a block average decorrelation method ) of potential energy , bubble size , fraying ( where applicable ) and structural kinking were checked . for the production phase , each production simulation ( five independent simulations per measurement ) was initialized with a statistically independent starting configuration and a unique random seed .",
    "this is accomplished by randomly drawing starting configurations from the equilibration phase , one for each production run , ignoring the first vmmc steps per particle of equilibration .",
    "the production run time for each simulation was vmmc steps per particle . for reference ,",
    "the characteristic decorrelation time for the potential energy is @xmath72 vmmc steps per particle , while the decorrelation time for kinking is @xmath73 vmmc steps per particle .",
    "the `` seed moves '' used to build clusters in the vmmc algorithm were :    * rotation of a nucleotide about its backbone site , with an axis chosen uniformly on the unit sphere , and with an angle drawn from a normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of 0.10 radians .",
    "* translation of a nucleotide , where the displacement along each cartesian axis is drawn from a normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of .",
    "additional simulations were performed to measure the free energy of kinked states for a 30-bp duplex at larger values of @xmath5 . in this case ,",
    "as well as biasing @xmath5 , the umbrella potential was used to forbid states without kinks ( separate simulations were performed for each kink criterion ) .",
    "umbrella potentials for @xmath5 were obtained via manual iteration at a preliminary stage .",
    "simulations were started from kinked configurations and thermalized for vmmc steps per particle .",
    "subsequent data collection lasted for vmmc per particle .",
    "five independent simulations were performed .",
    "the vmmc `` seed moves '' differ slightly from those mentioned previously :    * rotation of a nucleotide about its backbone site , with the axis chosen from a uniform random distribution and the angle from a normal distribution with mean of zero and a standard deviation of 0.15 radians ; * translation of a nucleotide with the direction chosen from a uniform random distribution and the distance from a normal distribution with mean of zero and a standard deviation of .",
    "to isolate the effects of dna bending , as opposed to alternative deformation modes such as fraying of the terminal base pairs , we impose a condition preventing fraying in our dna bending simulations .",
    "note that this constraint was not applied in simulations of the molecular vice system . using an additional order parameter ,",
    "the 30-bp system was constrained such that the terminal base pairs remained hydrogen - bonded , thereby eliminating the possibility of fraying at duplex ends .",
    "we compared constraints where 1 , 3 and 5 base pairs at the duplex ends were prevented from opening , finding that the various conditions yield comparable results ( ) .     and kinking in an @xmath74 duplex . limiting cases allowing fraying and enforcing hydrogen bonding along the entire duplex",
    "are also shown .",
    "* ( a ) * free energy of bending .",
    "probability of kinking based on the * ( b ) * energetic or * ( c ) * structural criteria for kinking . in all panels , for the frayed system @xmath5",
    "( the end - to - end distance between the centres of the helical axis at the first and last base pairs ) is ill - defined , so the very similar @xmath4 ( the end - to - end distance between the base interaction sites of the first and last bases along the umbrella sampled strand ) is used instead .",
    ", width=321 ]    to further probe the behaviour of the 30-bp system , in separate simulations we allowed the system to fray freely or preserved hydrogen bonding along the entire duplex . unsurprisingly , as frayed base pairs can adopt a large range of conformations including many that reduce @xmath5 , allowing fraying as an additional deformation mode reduces the bending free - energy penalty and delays the onset of kinking . preserving hydrogen bonding throughout",
    "the duplex also delays kinking , but by limiting kinked states to those that do not involve disrupted base pairing ; only those that break stacking but not base pairing remain , and thus the free energy cost of kinking is higher .    since a system in which fraying is permitted may not have terminal base pairs ,",
    "the usual definition of @xmath5 reporting the separation between the helical axis centres of the terminal base pairs , is not well defined .",
    "therefore , for this system we instead use @xmath4 , defined as the separation between the base interaction sites of the first and last bases along a single strand .",
    "akin to the bending simulations of duplex dna ( ) , the molecular vice simulations were performed in three phases : assembly , equilibration and production .",
    "an exploratory phase is not required since the simulations were unbiased , i.e.  umbrella sampling is not used . as in the bending simulations ,",
    "non - native base pairing was disallowed for simplicity . in the assembly phase ,",
    "the system was initialized as two single strands .",
    "harmonic traps were used to bring the stem ends , as well as the loop and complement strand , into proximity .",
    "assembly with traps requires @xmath75 vmmc steps per particle , significantly faster than free assembly .",
    "the assembled systems were equilibrated for vmmc steps per particle . for the production phase , each production simulation ( six independent simulations per point ) was initialized with a statistically independent starting configuration and a unique random seed .",
    "this was accomplished by randomly drawing starting configurations from the equilibration phase , one for each production run , ignoring the first vmmc steps per particle of the equilibration phase .",
    "the length of each production run was @xmath76 vmmc steps per particle .",
    "all simulations were performed with the sequence - dependent oxdna parameterization .",
    "where available ( @xmath43 ) , the sequences are identical to those used in the experiments of fields _ et al .  _",
    "@xcite ; where not available , similar sequences are used .",
    "all sequences are written @xmath77 to @xmath78 .",
    "the fields _ et al .  _",
    "stem sequence is used for all systems : ` gcc cgg cgg ctt ata aaa ttt att aat tat ata ttt tat tta ata taa t - loop ` .",
    "a complete list of loop sequences is available in .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < \" , ]      in the main text , we used two ` kink detectors ' to identify the emergence of kinked states : one with an energetic criterion and one with a structural criterion .",
    "we saw that both measures located the transition to a kink - dominated ensemble at approximately the same @xmath5 . to understand the properties of these detectors further , we performed additional simulations for a 30-bp duplex in which a second umbrella bias was used to forbid unkinked states ( separate simulations were performed for each kink criterion ) . in , we report @xmath17 ( the free energy of the kinked state ) versus @xmath5 obtained from these simulations .",
    "curves were normalized by manually matching to the data obtained for small @xmath5 in the original simulations in which unkinked states were permitted  the zero of free energy is then the same as in ( a ) .",
    "both detectors identify deviations from the b - dna structure of the duplex that are extremely rare in the ensemble of typical states , as can be seen from . in snapshots of simulations around @xmath32",
    ", they also appear to do a good job of distinguishing between clearly kinked and clearly unkinked structures .",
    "they are not , however , perfect reporters for configurations that would be intuitively interpreted as ` kinks ' .",
    "firstly , there is always a degree of arbitrariness involved in defining a kink : is a disruption to the duplex structure of the type that allows enhanced bending a kink even if the net bending angle around the disruption is less than , or less than ?",
    "of our two detectors , the structural criterion is more exacting in this regard , which explains why it reports slightly fewer kinks at @xmath79 than the energetic criterion .",
    "although the two detectors do not agree exactly , however , they are reasonably consistent at @xmath80 .",
    "this is because duplex disruptions are only common at @xmath80 _ because _ they allow large bending .",
    "we do not observe a significant number of configurations that meet the energetic criterion without large , localized bending because such states do not help to relax the stress applied , and hence remain rare .",
    "thus most configurations that meet the energetic criterion meet the structural criterion ( although a few are not quite bent enough ) . at @xmath81 ,",
    "the number of structures that satisfy the energetic criterion but not the structural criterion is larger , partly because less bending must be localized at kinks to relax the system elsewhwere .",
    "note that for the nicked system , kinking occurs at much larger @xmath5 due to the lower cost ; hence systems can relax the bending stress without meeting the structural criterion , leading to a bigger discrepancy between the two detectors at @xmath79 in this case .",
    "there is a second reason why the curves for the energetic and structural detectors diverge at @xmath81 , which is related to a second reason why the detectors are not perfect reporters for kinking .",
    "as can be seen in , the free energy curves for systems constrained by the energetic and structural detectors exhibit a noticeable change in slope as @xmath5 gets larger .",
    "this change in slope is analogous to the change in slope of the free energy of the unconstrained system , also shown in .",
    "such a slope change is characteristic of a crossover from one typical conformation ( with a certain flexibility ) to a qualitatively different one with a distinct flexibility . for our unconstrained system ,",
    "the slope change is simply the transition between kinked and unkinked states .",
    "thus at @xmath82 nm , the typical states that satisfy the energetic and structural criteria for kinking are qualitatively distinct from those that are common at @xmath80 . for example , the energetic criterion can be met by stretching a base pair step , and the structural criterion can be met by flipping out a single base from the helix and rotating it ; configurations of this kind are more probable than those that we would intuitively describe as kinked _ if the duplex is not sharply bent_. these configurations highlight an additional difficulty in unambiguously defining a metric and cost for kinking .",
    "however , such states are only common relative to other configurations that satisfy the kink criteria at large @xmath5 ; they are still rare compared to normal states at large @xmath5 and remain rare at all values of @xmath5 as they do not help to alleviate bending stress .    in summary , despite the ambiguities in defining and identifying kinks , only duplex disruptions associated with localized bending through large angles are common at @xmath80 for an intact duplex .",
    "thus the two kink detectors are sufficiently consistent and provide meaningful results .     for a 30-bp duplex constrained to kink by either the energetic or structural criteria .",
    "the free energy is normalized by manually matching to the data reported in the main text ( ( a ) ) for kinked states at small @xmath5 .",
    "error bars are comparable to line thickness . also shown for comparison",
    "is the data for a system not constrained to show kinking .",
    ", width=321 ]",
    "the distribution of bubble sizes reveals the frequent presence of a bubble in kinked duplexes ( ) .",
    "briefly , bubbles are defined as loss of base pairs away from the duplex ends , while loss of base pairs at duplex ends is classified as fraying .",
    "unsurprisingly , bubbles are almost always co - localized with kinks , so we take total bubble size along the duplex as a proxy for bubbles at a kink .",
    "results for total bubble size given the energetic and structural criteria for a kink are very similar .    ) of the total bubble size in base pairs ( @xmath83 ) given the presence of a kink via either the energetic ( ) or structural ( ) criteria for @xmath74 at @xmath84 from the umbrella potential bin @xmath85 .",
    "error bars are of the order of the point size . , width=321 ]        nomenclature has been developed in all - atom md simulations @xcite to distinguish between type - i ( disruption of stacking but not base pairing ) and type - ii kinks ( disruption of both base pairing and stacking ) . due to its coarse - grained nature , we have less confidence that oxdna has sufficient molecular detail to contribute reliably to this discussion ; furthermore , the distinction between type - i and type - ii kinks are of less direct relevance to this study .",
    "we therefore do not focus on the classification of kink subtypes , although we note that we see configurations which could be assigned to both types ( ) and that most kinks involve broken base pairs ( i.e.  are of type - ii )  for example , only  10% of the kinks for the states contributing to only involve disruption of stacking .",
    "when the ends of a duplex are pulled together , it would be expected that kinking occurs near the midpoint of the duplex .",
    "kinks far from the midpoint would result in incommensurate relaxed duplex sections , which are then less likely to have their ends in close proximity .",
    "analysis of the kink probability distribution confirms that kinks are localized near the midpoint ( ) .",
    "since structural and energetic kinks are a property defined between pairs of consecutive bases ( see definitions section of main text ) , we report the kink location distribution in base steps , where base step @xmath8 refers to a kink between base index @xmath8 and @xmath10 . for every sampled state ,",
    "all base steps along one strand that satisfy the relevant kink criterion are included in the histogram .",
    "to normalise , we divide by the total number of detected kinks along both strands in all sampled states .",
    "kinks are considered distinct if they are separated by more than @xmath86 base steps .",
    "thus the normalized kink distribution gives the probability that a given pair of neighbours contributes to an arbitrarily chosen kink . to compare multiple lengths",
    ", we report the probability of kinking versus the _ adjusted _ base pair index , centred around the mid - point of the duplex , @xmath87 . the @xmath88 offset accounts for zero - based numbering and indexing the base step to base index @xmath8 instead of @xmath10 .    ) and nicked ( @xmath89 ) duplexes .",
    "we sample all duplexes at constant end - to - end distance from the umbrella potential bin @xmath85 .",
    ", width=321 ]    for the intact duplexes , the distribution is quite wide , @xmath90 base pairs , suggesting that entropic effects are quite prevalent and some degree of incommensurately can be tolerated .",
    "the distribution also appears to become slightly broader for longer duplexes .",
    "importantly , the preference for localisation about the midpoint of the duplex is because this is the position that provides the maximum decrease in end - to - end distance : in relaxed duplex dna , or in dna minicircles , one would not necessarily expect a preferred site for kinking with the average - base parameterisation of oxdna .    for the nicked duplex at @xmath74 ,",
    "the distribution is quite narrow , @xmath91 base pairs , reflecting the strong preference for localisation of kinking at the nick ( ) .",
    "contrary to the intact duplexes , the preference for kinking at a nick is not just due to the bending stress imposed on the system : nicked sites have a lower free energy cost for kinking because base pairing need not be disrupted for a kink to form ; only stacking must be compromised .      at @xmath92",
    ", kinking appears to be less effective at relieving bending stress ; for all but the shortest duplexes , there is re - entrant behaviour from kinking back to continuous bending .",
    "a typical kinked structure is shown in ( a ) ; it consists of two long ( relatively relaxed ) duplex sections and a highly bent kink region .",
    "given that @xmath5 is measured in terms of the distance between terminal base pair centres , however , such a configuration can not bring the ends into extremely close proximity ( @xmath93 , the approximate duplex diameter ) due to steric effects .",
    "instead , the blunt ends of the duplex must face each other to achieve @xmath93 and this fundamentally changes the constraints placed on the rest of the system , and makes kinking opposite the blunt ends less effective at relieving the stress .",
    "the dna duplex adopts minicircle - like configurations for extremely small values of @xmath5 , as shown in ( b ) .",
    "minicircles can , of course , undergo kinking ; however , the geometrical constraints mean that it is impossible to localise the majority of bending stress into a single kink @xcite , unlike in systems with a slightly larger separation of the blunt ends . thus we obtain the seemingly paradoxical result that kinking is more likely for systems that have some flexibility in their ends than for systems , such as minicircles , where the ends are constrained to be in extremely close proximity .    .",
    "* ( a ) * a kinked state , with @xmath5 small but greater than 2 nm . *",
    "( b ) * an unkinked , minicircle - like state with @xmath94 nm . with this constraint , a single kink can not relax the majority of the bending stress , unlike in case ( a ) . , width=321 ]      for clarity , we present the bending free energy and end - to - end separation at the mid - point of the kink transition for all simulations in .",
    ".4@rrr & & +   + ( l)1 - 3 20 & 15.9 & 4.7 + 30 & 18.1 & 5.5 + @xmath9530 & 6.0 & 8.0 + 41 & 19.7 & 5.3 + 52 & 21.4 & 4.3 +   +   + ( l)1 - 3 poly(gc ) & 21.1 & 5.1 + avg - base & 18.0 & 5.4 + poly(at ) & 14.8 & 5.8 +   +   + ( l)1 - 3 intact & 16.1 & 5.7 + @xmath96gg & 13.0 & 6.0 + @xmath96gt & 13.3 & 6.0 + @xmath96aa & 12.8 & 6.1 + @xmath96cc & 13.5 & 5.9 +   +   + ( l)1 - 3 @xmath95poly(gc ) & 7.9 & 7.2 + @xmath95avg - base & 6.7 & 7.3 + @xmath95poly(at ) & 4.8 & 7.6 +   +",
    "in the main text , we show the structural properties for variable loop length ( @xmath1 ) and duplex length ( @xmath3 ) ( ) .",
    "the data suggest that kinked configurations are gradually superseded by continuously bent states as @xmath1 increases .",
    "this behaviour is also observed in our investigation of length - dependence in the free - energy of bending of intact duplexes ( ) , and would therefore be expected for the molecular vice .",
    "we make the length - dependence of kinking , hairpin separation , fraying and stem unzipping in the molecular vice more explicit in , by profiling the longest @xmath3 at a range of @xmath1 lengths . at the lowest values of @xmath1 , unzipping ( and a small amount of fraying )",
    "is the dominant method of relieving stress . at intermediate @xmath1 ,",
    "kinked states dominate .",
    "a transition from kinked to continuously bent states is observed at long @xmath3 ( and therefore long @xmath1 ) , with the midpoint at @xmath97 . by @xmath98bp ,",
    "duplexes are almost exclusively continuously bent ( @xmath99 ) .",
    "unsurprisingly , the length associated with this crossover is consistent with our bending simulations ( ) .",
    "we can not currently study the exact salt concentration used by fields _",
    "et al .  _",
    "@xcite with oxdna .",
    "however , we can probe the impact of increasing temperature , which may also be somewhat analogous to decreasing salt concentration , as both serve to weaken base pairing ; in particular , reducing the unzipping force associated with the hairpin @xcite .",
    "we also note that temperature is not perfectly controlled in gel - based experiments due to electrophoresis - induced heating of the gel running buffer .",
    "temperature - dependence was explored with additional simulations at ( data not shown ) and ( ) . we find negligible kinking at @xmath102 for @xmath52 , consistent with the reasoning that weakened base pairing in the stem leads to easier unzipping .",
    "huguet , j.  m. , bizarro , c.  v. , forns , n. , smith , s.  b. , bustamante , c. , and ritort , f. ( 2010 ) single - molecule derivation of salt dependent base - pair free energies in dna .",
    "usa , _ * 107 * , 1543115436 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> dna bending is biologically important for genome regulation and is relevant to a range of nanotechnological systems . </S>",
    "<S> recent results suggest that sharp bending is much easier than implied by the widely - used worm - like chain model ; many of these studies , however , remain controversial . </S>",
    "<S> we use a coarse - grained model , previously fitted to dna s basic thermodynamic and mechanical properties , to explore strongly bent systems . we find that as the end - to - end distance is decreased sufficiently short duplexes undergo a transition to a state in which the bending strain is localized at a flexible kink that involves disruption of base - pairing and stacking . this kinked state , </S>",
    "<S> which is not well - described by the worm - like chain model , allows the duplex to more easily be sharply bent . </S>",
    "<S> it is not completely flexible , however , due to constraints arising from the connectivity of both dna backbones . </S>",
    "<S> we also perform a detailed comparison to recent experiments on a `` molecular vice '' that probes highly bent dna . </S>",
    "<S> close agreement between simulations and experiments strengthens the hypothesis that localised bending via kinking occurs in the molecular vice and causes enhanced flexibility of duplex dna . </S>",
    "<S> our calculations therefore suggests that the cost of kinking implied by this experiment is consistent with the known thermodynamic and mechanical properties of dna . </S>"
  ]
}