{
  "article_text": [
    "characterizing the functional dynamics of rna molecules is one of the key standing issues in molecular biology .",
    "the interest in this topic is spurred by the ongoing discovery of ever new biological roles that rnas can have in different contexts ( see , e.g. ,  @xcite for a recent review ) and , at the same time , by the realization that the structure @xmath0 function relationship of these molecules is often related to their internal dynamics  @xcite . in this respect ,",
    "theoretical approaches hold much potential for complementing experiments and provide valuable quantitative insight into the functional dynamics of rnas .",
    "for instance , molecular dynamics ( md ) simulations with atomistic force fields have been used to reproduce experimental measurements and aid their interpretation ( see , e.g. , refs @xcite ) .",
    "however , it may be argued that one of the most important limitations to the systematic use of atomistic md simulations for characterizing the behavior of rna is their intensive computational demand .",
    "in fact , most if not all current md studies are still limited to the s timescale .    for this reason , several efforts are being spent towards developing coarse - grained approaches capable of striking a good balance between accuracy and computational efficiency  ( see , e.g. , refs  @xcite ) . in this respect",
    ", it should be noted that coarse - grained models are valuable not only because they are amenable to extensive numerical characterization , but precisely because their simplified formulation can offer important insight into the main physico - chemical mechanisms that underpin the behavior and properties of a given biomolecule .    for proteins , a successful class of such simplified models",
    "are elastic networks .",
    "these models were originally motivated by the seminal work of tirion  @xcite who showed that the hessian of the potential energy of a globular protein computed from an atomistic force field could be reliably reproduced by replacing the detailed inter - atomic forces by spring - like , harmonic interactions .",
    "this remarkable fact was rationalized _ a posteriori _ in terms of the large - scale character that low - energy fluctuations have in proteins , which makes them amenable to be captured with models that are oblivious of the details of the potential  @xcite .",
    "this observation , in turn , prompted further development of simplified harmonic models where the structural descriptions themselves were simplified by reducing the number of interaction centers , also termed beads . in their simplest formulation , elastic - network models ( enm ) incorporate harmonic interactions between pairs of c@xmath1 beads  @xcite while two - beads amino acid representations , e.g.  for the main- and side - chains  @xcite , can predict structural fluctuations in very good accord with atomistic md simulations  @xcite .    by comparison with proteins ,",
    "the development and application of elastic networks aimed at nucleic acids is still relatively unexplored .",
    "bahar and jernigan first applied network models to the conformational dynamics of a transfer rna using a model with two beads per nucleotide  @xcite .",
    "several authors further simplified this model using a single bead placed on the phosphorus atom  @xcite .",
    "more recently , setny and zacharias suggested that the best candidate to host a single enm bead is the center of the ribose sugar in the backbone @xcite .",
    "other enms with more beads per nucleotide have also been used  @xcite .",
    "most of these studies assessed the validity of different representations by focusing on their capability to reproduce either the structural variability observed across experimental conformers or the debye - waller factors from x - ray experiments .",
    "enm fluctuations were also compared with accurate atomistic md simulations , but the comparison was either limited to short time scales @xcite or to model simple double helices  @xcite .    towards the goal of identifying the most suitable rna enm , here we assess the performance of an extensive repertoire of enms which are all equally viable _",
    "a priori_. these models , in fact , differ for the specific single- or multi - bead representations used for each nucleotide , as well as for the spatial range of the pairwise elastic interactions . as stringent term of reference",
    "we perform s time - scale atomistic md simulations on rna molecules containing canonical a - form double helices as well as nontrivial secondary and tertiary structures .",
    "additionally , we introduce a procedure to compare fluctuations with selective 2@xmath2-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension ( shape ) experiments  @xcite .",
    "shape reactivity is empirically known to correlate with base dynamics and sugar pucker flexibility at the nucleotide level  @xcite and hence is , in principle , well suited for validating predictions of rna internal dynamics .",
    "recently , kirmizialtin _",
    "et al_.  have proposed a link between fluctuations of selected torsional angles and shape reactivity and used shape data as an input to improve the accuracy of force - field terms in an atomistic structure - based ( go - like ) model  @xcite . however , to the best of our knowledge , the present study is the first attempt of using shape reactivity measurements to assess the predictive accuracy of three - dimensional coarse - grained models or atomistic molecular dynamics simulations .",
    "we find that the best balance between keeping the model complexity to a minimum and yet have an accurate description of rnas internal dynamics is achieved when each nucleotide is described by three beads representing the sugar , the base , and the phosphate ( sbp ) groups .",
    "slightly better results can be obtained using the much more computationally - demanding all - atom ( aa ) model . as a matter of fact",
    ", the sbp and aa elastic network models can reproduce to a very good accuracy the principal structural fluctuations as predicted from s - long atomistic md simulations , both in their directions and relative amplitudes .",
    "additionally , they provide a satisfactory proxy for the nucleotide - level flexibility as captured by experimental shape data .",
    "we performed atomistic md simulations on four different rna molecules ( figure  [ fig : ss ] ) .",
    "these systems were chosen so as to cover a variety of size and structural complexity and yet be amenable to extensive simulations , as detailed in table [ tab : mdinfo ] .",
    ".rna dataset : details and length of md simulations . for the _ thim _ riboswitch",
    ", no md was performed . [ cols=\"<,<,^,^ \" , ]",
    "the development and performance assessment of elastic networks for rnas have so far been pursued in two main directions .",
    "on one hand , zimmermann and jernigan  @xcite have recently shown that the essential dynamical spaces of enms based on the phosphate representation of rnas can satisfactorily account for the structural variability observed across crystal structures homologs .",
    "on the other hand , setny and zacharias  @xcite have considered enms where different atoms of the rna backbone ( i.e.  sugar and phosphate groups only ) are alternatively used to represent nucleotides in short rna duplexes . within this class of single - bead enms and target rna structures",
    ", it was found that those based on the sugar - group representation yielded the structural fluctuations with the best consistency with md simulations or nmr ensembles  @xcite .    here ,",
    "we tackle this standing challenge by searching for the simplest and yet accurate rna enm .",
    "we analyze a comprehensive combinations of ( i ) interaction centers , or beads , for each nucleotide and ( ii ) spatial range of the elastic interaction . in total",
    ", we considered eight different types of enms , which are listed in table  [ table : rc ] .",
    "for the critical assessment of their performance , we validated the predicted structural fluctuations against data from s - long atomistic md simulations as well as from experimental shape measurements .",
    "finally , towards ensuring model transferability , we considered the four different types of rna molecules listed in table  [ tab : mdinfo ] and represented in fig .",
    "[ fig : ss ] .",
    "these systems cover a significant repertoire of different structural elements such as non - canonical base pairs , bulges , junctions and tertiary contacts and were selected with two main criteria , namely : first , they natively adopt a specific fold ( i.e. have a stable tertiary structure , which is a prerequisite for enm applicability ) and , secondly , they are amenable to extensive numerical characterization with s - long md simulations in explicit solvent .",
    "we notice that the size of the studied systems is limited only by the md computational cost , while the enm method is straightfowardly applicable to larger molecules , as it has been done for instance in ref .",
    "@xcite .    in the following",
    "we discuss the performance of the various models listed in table  [ table : rc ] starting from those employing a single - bead nucleotide representation and then moving on to the more detailed , multi - bead ones .    among the one - bead models",
    "the best accord with md data is obtained for the s model , where a nucleotide is represented with the c1@xmath2 atom of the sugar moiety . in this case , when the most appropriate elastic interaction range is used ( see table  [ table : rc ] ) , the accord of enm and md is significantly larger than the statistical reference ( null ) case , and not too much behind the accord of the first and second halves of the md simulations .",
    "this result is consistent with the conclusions of the aforementioned recent study of ref .",
    "@xcite and reinforces them from a significantly broader perspective .",
    "in fact , the present assessment is carried out for a wider range of rna motifs and the search of the optimal representative atom is not limited to the rna backbone but encompasses the base too .    in this regard",
    ", we note that the model with a single bead on the c2 atom of the base ( b model ) reproduces structural fluctuations less accurately than the s model and the optimal interaction cutoff is more dependent on the specific molecule , a fact that impairs the transferability of the model .",
    "these shortcomings are even more evident in the p model , where a nucleotide is represented with the sole phosphorous atom .",
    "in fact , both the s and b models are better performing than the p one . the result may be , at first , surprising because of the apparent analogy between the phosphate representation in rna and the c@xmath1 representation in proteins .",
    "the latter is virtually used in all single - beads enms for proteins .",
    "however , one should keep in mind a fundamental distinction of backbone and side - groups roles for the structural organization and stability of these two types of biopolymers .",
    "in fact , whereas for proteins the backbone self - interaction ( e.g. hydrogen bonding ) contributes significantly to the structural stability , for rnas the analogous role is , in fact , played by the bases and not by the phosphate groups  @xcite . in this regard ,",
    "it is interesting to recall that rnas have , in fact , been interpreted as adopting an `` inside - out '' organization compared to proteins  @xcite .",
    "this distinction might help rationalize why the p representation does not serve for rna enms equally well as the c@xmath1 representation for proteins .    moving on to two - beads models",
    ", we observe that enms employing beads both in the bases and in the backbone ( sb , bp ) perform systematically better than any single - bead model with only a modest increase in the computational complexity .",
    "sb and bp models also outperforms the sp model .",
    "we also stress that being able to reproduce the fluctuations of the bases is by itself an advantage because their functional role is of primary importance in nucleic acids and their dynamics can affect different aspects of the behavior of rna molecules ( see , e.g. , refs .",
    "@xcite ) .    increasing the number of beads featured in the enm models",
    "( see also fig .",
    "sd  1 for 5/6-beads model ) , improves the agreement with md , consistently with what had been observed for proteins  @xcite .",
    "the best overall accuracy is indeed observed for the all - atom ( aa ) enm .",
    "we focused our attention on this model , as well as on the the sbp model , that uses one bead for each of the sugar , base and phosphate groups .",
    "in fact , the consistency of both models with md data is practically as high as the internal consistency of md itself .",
    "we also note that the optimal performance of the sbp model is attained when the interaction cutoff distance is about equal to @xmath3   .",
    "this is a convenient feature , as this interaction range falls in the same viable interaction range of elastic networks for proteins  @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the typical density of beads in protein enm is very similar to the sbp model ( table [ table : rc ] ) . in principle , this allow for the perspective of integration of proteins and rna elastic networks to study protein / rna complexes .",
    "the viability of the sbp and aa models is independently underscored by the comparison against experimental shape data , which are notoriously challenging to predict .",
    "the challenge is at least partly due to the difficulties of identifying from _ a priori _ considerations structural or dynamical observables that correlate significantly with shape data . as a first step of the analysis we therefore considered various observables computed from atomistic md simulations against shape data , and established that the relative fluctuations of consecutive nucleobases provide a viable proxy for shape data .",
    "our comparative analysis showed that such fluctuations can be captured well using the sbp enm , and to an even better extent with the aa enm .",
    "possibly , this is a step in the direction of defining a model able to directly correlate three - dimensional structures with shape reactivities .",
    "interestingly , both the enms are completely independent from the dihedral potentials and thus should not be directly affected by the pucker conformation of the ribose . the fact that they can provide a reasonable estimate of the backbone flexibility as measured by shape reactivity suggests that the backbone flexibility is mostly hindered by the mobility of the bases .    in conclusion , elastic network models were here compared systematically with fully atomistic molecular dynamics simulations and with shape reactivities .",
    "we found that , in spite of their simplistic nature , the three - center ( sbp ) and all - atom ( aa ) elastic networks are capable of properly reproducing both md fluctuations and chemical probing experimental data .",
    "of these two accurate enms , the three - center model ( sbp ) , provides an ideal compromise between accuracy and computational complexity , given that retaining the full atomistic detail when modeling large structures , such as the ribosome and other macromolecular rna / protein complexes , can be computationally very demanding .",
    "a module that implements the enm for rna discussed in this paper has been included in the barnaba analysis tool ( http://github.com/srnas/barnaba ) .",
    "supplementary data are available at nar online .",
    "the research leading to these results has received funding from the european research council under the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp/2007 - 2013 ) / erc grant agreement n. 306662 , s - rna - s and from the italian ministry of education , projects of national interest grant no .",
    "2010hxaw77 .",
    "none declared .",
    "we are grateful to pavel ban , simn poblete - fuentes , and martin zacharias for reading the manuscript and providing useful suggestions .",
    "francesco di palma is also acknowledged for providing the initial setup and ligand parametrization used for the _ add _ riboswitch molecular dynamics .",
    "kevin weeks is acknowledged for useful discussions .",
    "yildirim , i. , park , h. , disney , m.  d. , and schatz , g.  c. ( 2013 ) a dynamic structural model of expanded rna cag repeats : a refined x - ray structure and computational investigations using molecular dynamics and umbrella sampling simulations _ j. am .",
    "soc . _ * 135 * , 35283538 .",
    "musiani , f. , rossetti , g. , capece , l. , gerger , t.  m. , micheletti , c. , varani , g. , and carloni , p. ( 2014 ) molecular dynamics simulations identify time scale of conformational changes responsible for conformational selection in molecular recognition of hiv-1 transactivation responsive rna _ j. am .",
    "soc . _ * 136 * , 1563115637 .",
    "poner , j. , ban , p. , jureka , p. , zgarbov , m. , khrov , p. , havrila , m. , krepl , m. , stadlbauer , p. , and otyepka , m. ( 2014 ) molecular dynamics simulations of nucleic acids . from tetranucleotides to the ribosome _ j. phys",
    "* 5 * , 17711782 .",
    "ding , f. , sharma , s. , chalasani , p. , demidov , v.  v. , broude , n.  e. , and dokholyan , n.  v. ( 2008 ) ab initio rna folding by discrete molecular dynamics : from structure prediction to folding mechanisms _ rna _ * 14 * , 11641173 .    jonikas , m.  a. , radmer , r.  j. , laederach , a. , das , r. , pearlman , s. , herschlag , d. , and altman , r.  b. ( 2009 ) coarse - grained modeling of large rna molecules with knowledge - based potentials and structural filters _ rna _ * 15 * , 189199 .",
    "atilgan , a.  r. , durell , s.  r. , jernigan , r.  l. , demirel , m.  c. , keskin , o. , and bahar , i. ( 2001 ) anisotropy of fluctuation dynamics of proteins with an elastic network model _ biophys .",
    "j. _ * 80 * , 505515 .",
    "tama , f. , valle , m. , frank , j. , and brooks , c.  l. ( 2003 ) dynamic reorganization of the functionally active ribosome explored by normal mode analysis and cryo - electron microscopy _ proc .",
    "sci . _ * 100 * , 93199323 .",
    "yang , l .- w . ,",
    "rader , a. , liu , x. , jursa , c.  j. , chen , s.  c. , karimi , h.  a. , and bahar , i. ( 2006 ) ognm : online computation of structural dynamics using the gaussian network model _ nucleic acids res .",
    "_ * 34 * , w24w31 .",
    "merino , e.  j. , wilkinson , k.  a. , coughlan , j.  l. , and weeks , k.  m. ( 2005 ) rna structure analysis at single nucleotide resolution by selective 2-hydroxyl acylation and primer extension ( shape )",
    "soc . _ * 127 * , 42234231 .",
    "kirmizialtin , s. , hennelly , s.  p. , schug , a. , onuchic , j.  n. , and sanbonmatsu , k.  y. ( 2015 ) integrating molecular dynamics simulations with chemical probing experiments using shape - fit _ methods enzymol . _ * 553 * , 215234 .",
    "chen , x. , mcdowell , j.  a. , kierzek , r. , krugh , t.  r. , and turner , d.  h. ( 2000 ) nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and molecular modeling reveal that different hydrogen bonding patterns are possible for g@xmath4u pairs : one hydrogen bond for each g@xmath4u pair in r(ggcgcc)@xmath5 and two for each g@xmath4u pair in r(gagcuc)@xmath6 _ biochemistry _ * 39 * , 89708982 .",
    "correll , c.  c. , beneken , j. , plantinga , m.  j. , lubbers , m. , and chan , y .- l .",
    "( 2003 ) the common and the distinctive features of the bulged - g motif based on a 1.04  resolution rna structure _ nucleic acids res . _ * 31 * , 68066818 .",
    "serganov , a. , yuan , y .- r . , pikovskaya , o. , polonskaia , a. , malinina , l. , phan , a.  t. , hobartner , c. , micura , r. , breaker , r.  r. , and patel , d.  j. ( 2004 ) structural basis for discriminative regulation of gene expression by adenine - and guanine - sensing mrnas _ chem .",
    "biol . _ * 11 * , 17291741 .        gong , z. , zhao , y. , chen , c. , and xiao , y. ( 2011 ) role of ligand binding in structural organization of add a - riboswitch aptamer : a molecular dynamics simulation _ j. biomol .",
    "_ * 29 * , 403416 .",
    "pronk , s. , pll , s. , schulz , r. , larsson , p. , bjelkmar , p. , apostolov , r. , shirts , m.  r. , smith , j.  c. , kasson , p.  m. , van  derspoel , d. , hess , b. , and lindhal , e. ( 2013 ) gromacs 4.5 : a high - throughput and highly parallel open source molecular simulation toolkit _ bioinformatics _ * 29 * , 845854 .",
    "hornak , v. , abel , r. , okur , a. , strockbine , b. , roitberg , a. , and simmerling , c. ( 2006 ) comparison of multiple amber force fields and development of improved protein backbone parameters _ proteins _ * 65 * , 712725 .",
    "prez , a. , marchn , i. , svozil , d. , poner , j. , cheatham  iii , t.  e. , laughton , c.  a. , and orozco , m. ( 2007 ) refinement of the amber force field for nucleic acids : improving the description of @xmath7 @xmath8 conformers _ biophys .",
    "j. _ * 92 * , 38173829 .",
    "ban , p. , hollas , d. , zgarbov , m. , jurecka , p. , orozco , m. , cheatham  iii , t.  e. , poner , j. , and otyepka , m. ( 2010 ) performance of molecular mechanics force fields for rna simulations : stability of uucg and gnra hairpins _ j. chem . theory comput . _",
    "* 6 * , 38363849 .",
    "zen , a. , carnevale , v. , lesk , a.  m. , and micheletti , c. ( 2008 ) correspondences between low - energy modes in enzymes : dynamics - based alignment of enzymatic functional families _ protein sci . _ * 17 * , 918929 .",
    "altona , c.  t. , and sundaralingam , m. ( 1972 ) conformational analysis of the sugar ring in nucleosides and nucleotides .",
    "new description using the concept of pseudorotation _",
    "* 94 * , 82058212 .",
    "altona , c.  t. , and sundaralingam , m. ( 1973 ) conformational analysis of the sugar ring in nucleosides and nucleotides .",
    "improved method for the interpretation of proton magnetic resonance coupling constants _ j. am .",
    "* 95 * , 23333344 .",
    "hajdin , c.  e. , bellaousov , s. , huggins , w. , leonard , c.  w. , mathews , d.  h. , and weeks , k.  m. ( 2013 ) accurate shape - directed rna secondary structure modeling , including pseudoknots _ proc .",
    "sci . _ * 110 * , 54985503 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> elastic network models ( enms ) are valuable and efficient tools for characterizing the collective internal dynamics of proteins based on the knowledge of their native structures . </S>",
    "<S> the increasing evidence that the biological functionality of rnas is often linked to their innate internal motions , poses the question of whether enm approaches can be successfully extended to this class of biomolecules . </S>",
    "<S> this issue is tackled here by considering various families of elastic networks of increasing complexity applied to a representative set of rnas . </S>",
    "<S> the fluctuations predicted by the alternative enms are stringently validated by comparison against extensive molecular dynamics simulations and shape experiments . </S>",
    "<S> we find that simulations and experimental data are systematically best reproduced by either an all - atom or a three - beads - per - nucleotide representation ( sugar - base - phosphate ) , with the latter arguably providing the best balance of accuracy and computational complexity . </S>"
  ]
}