{
  "article_text": [
    "at certain stages of stellar evolution , some stars show peculiarity of spectral lines in their spectra that argues in favour of an enhanced or depleted abundance of several chemical species in their stellar atmospheres with respect to the solar abundance . abnormally strong lines of silicon in @xmath1  cvn were first reported by antonia maury @xcite , while the strong lines of ionised silicon and ionised strontium were found by annie cannon @xcite in some bright southern stars in the process of determining their spectral class .",
    "the first systematic study and classification of stars of spectral classes b - f with abnormally strong lines of various chemical species was performed by morgan @xcite . to explain the mystery of the observed abnormally strong lines , shapley @xcite suggested the possibility of abundance abnormalities in the atmospheres of these stars .",
    "several decades later , this idea was confirmed by the results of a differential coarse analysis using the curves of growth @xcite .",
    "it should be noted , that the observed peculiar abundance of chemical species is only related to the stellar atmosphere and does not reflect the chemical composition of the entire star .",
    "we turn our attention to two types of stars with abundance anomalies : blue horizontal - branch ( bhb ) stars that burn helium in their core and hydrogen in a shell @xcite , and main sequence stars that burn hydrogen in their core .",
    "bhb stars are found mostly in globular clusters .",
    "comprehensive surveys show that the hot bhb stars have abundance anomalies as compared to the cool bhb stars in the same cluster @xcite .",
    "hot bhb stars show enhanced abundances of iron , magnesium , titanium and phosphor , and depleted helium @xcite .",
    "surveys of rotational velocities of bhb stars indicate that stars with @xmath2 11500  k possess modest rotation with v@xmath3 10 km s@xmath4 , while the cooler stars rotate more rapidly on average @xcite .",
    "slow rotation is an indicator of a hydrodynamically stable atmosphere and the observed abundance peculiarities as well as the brighter @xmath5-magnitudes ( as compared to the theoretical prediction for @xmath5-magnitudes based on stellar evolution models ) of hot bhb stars @xcite can be explained in the frame of atomic diffusion mechanism @xcite at play in their atmospheres .",
    "competition between the gravitational and radiative forces in a hydrodynamically stable atmosphere can cause accumulation or depletion of chemical elements at certain optical depths and lead to a vertical stratification of element abundances .",
    "hui - bon - hoa et al .",
    "@xcite have constructed stellar atmosphere models of hot bhb stars with vertical stratification of elements , that successfully reproduced some of the anomalies mentioned above .",
    "analysing the available high resolution spectra of some hot bhb stars , khalack et al .",
    "@xcite have detected vertical stratification of the abundance of several chemical elements , including iron .",
    "the stellar atmosphere models of hot bhb stars calculated self - consistently with abundance stratifications predict that the iron abundance stratification decreases as a function of @xmath6 and becomes negligible for bhb stars hotter than @xmath7 14000  k @xcite .",
    "this theoretical result is consistent with the detected iron abundance slopes found by khalack et al .",
    "@xcite from spectral line analysis of hot bhb stars with different effective temperatures .",
    "a significant portion of upper main sequence stars show abundance peculiarities of various chemical species and are commonly named chemically peculiar ( cp ) stars @xcite .",
    "george preston @xcite introduced this collective term and divided the cp stars in four groups : cp1 metallic - line stars ( type am - fm ) , cp2 magnetic peculiar b and a - type stars ( type bp - ap ) , cp3 mercury - manganese stars ( type hg - mn ) and cp4 helium weak stars . following a large number of extensive studies of cp stars , new types of abundance peculiarities",
    "have been discovered and an extension of preston s classification was proposed @xcite . in this new scheme ,",
    "the cp4 group includes only magnetic he - weak stars ( sr - ti - si branch ) , while the non - magnetic he - weak stars ( p - ga branch ) are placed in the group cp5 .",
    "the he - rich magnetic stars ( usually having spectral class b2 ) are placed in the group cp6 .",
    "the cp7 group is reserved for the non - magnetic he - rich stars . in this classification",
    "the odd numbers correspond to non - magnetic stars , while groups with the even numbers contain stars that possess a detectable magnetic field .",
    "more details about the history of discovery and study of cp stars can be found in @xcite .",
    "an extensive list of known and suspected ap , hgmn and am stars was recently published by renson & manfroid @xcite , while a list of known magnetic cp stars has been compiled by bychkov et al .",
    "some upper main sequence cp stars show variability of absorption line profiles in their spectra with the period of stellar rotation due to horizontal inhomogeneous distributions of elements abundance in their stellar atmosphere @xcite .",
    "one can see the periodic ( days , months , years ) variation of spectral line profiles with the axial rotation of a cp star due to the variation of contribution from different parts of the stellar atmosphere to these lines .",
    "ap stars also show signatures of a strong magnetic field and its structure correlates with the patches of overabundances ( or underabundances ) of certain elements @xcite .",
    "observationally , it was shown that the properties of the line profile variability due to abundance patches as well as the magnetic field structure of ap stars do not change during several decades @xcite and , therefore , it is usually assumed that stellar atmospheres of ap stars are hydrodynamically stable . in a hydrodynamically stable atmosphere",
    "the presence of a magnetic field can intensify accumulation or depletion of chemical elements at certain optical depths @xcite . from the analysis of line profiles of ionised iron and ionised chromium in the spectra of @xmath8  crb , ryabchikova et al . @xcite",
    "have shown that iron and chromium abundances increase towards the deeper atmospheric layers .",
    "this can be explained in terms of the mechanism of atomic diffusion @xcite .",
    "it appears that the light and the iron - peak elements are concentrated in the lower atmospheric layers of some ap stars ( hd  133792 and hd  204411 ) @xcite .",
    "meanwhile the rare - earth elements ( for example , pr and nd ) are usually pushed into the upper atmosphere of ap stars @xcite .",
    "detection of vertical stratification of element abundances in stellar atmospheres of stars is an indicator of the effectiveness of the atomic diffusion mechanism that may be responsible for the observed abundance peculiarities .",
    "the vertical stratification of element abundances in a hydrodynamically stable atmosphere can be estimated through the analysis of multiple line profiles that belong to the same ion of the studied element @xcite using the zeeman2 code @xcite , for instance .",
    "this approach has been successfully employed to study the vertical abundance stratification in the atmospheres of several bhb @xcite and hgmn stars @xcite .    to search for the signatures and to study the abundance stratification of chemical species with optical depth in the atmospheres of cp stars , we have initiated project veselka , which means rainbow in ukrainian and stands for vertical stratification of element abundances . slowly rotating ( v@xmath9 < 40 km / s )",
    "cp stars of the upper main sequence were selected for our study using the catalogue of ap , hgmn and am stars of @xcite .",
    "this limitation for the rotational velocity is imposed with the aim to increase the probability for a star to have a hydrodynamically stable atmosphere , where the atomic diffusion mechanism can produce vertical stratification of element abundances .",
    "a low value of v@xmath9 also leads to narrow and mostly unblended line profiles in the observed spectra , which is beneficial for our abundance analysis .",
    ".cp stars observed with espadons in the frame of project veselka . [ cols= \" < , > , > , < \" , ]      + @xmath10known spectroscopic binary stars [ tab1 ]",
    "the selected slowly rotating cp stars and two normal main sequence stars ( used as reference stars ) have been observed during 2013 - 14 with espadons ( echelle spectropolarimetric device for observations of stars ) at the cfht ( canada - france - hawaii telescope ) employing the deep - depletion e2v device olapa .",
    "the instrument performances as well as the optical characteristics of the spectropolarimetre are described in @xcite .",
    "espadons acquires high resolution ( r=  65000 ) stokes iv spectra throughout the spectral range from 3700 to 10500 in a single exposure @xcite . in order to be able to find convincing signatures of vertical stratification of element abundances from the spectral analysis",
    ", we require spectra with high signal - to - noise ratio ( close to one thousand per bin in the spectral region around 5150 ) . table  [ tab1 ] presents a list of the observed slowly rotating chemically peculiar stars and some normal upper main sequence stars .",
    "the first , second and third columns provide respectively the name of a star , its apparent visual magnitude and v@xmath9 value , while the fourth column contains information about its spectral type .",
    "the spectral classes of stars selected for the project veselka are given in table  [ tab1 ] taking into account the data from @xcite , simbad astronomical database and the estimates of effective temperature and surface gravity obtained by khalack & leblanc @xcite .",
    "some of the observed program stars are spectroscopic binaries .",
    "our sample also includes several hgmn stars and magnetic bp - ap stars . for each star ,",
    "we have obtained at least two spectra to verify if it is a binary star , or if the observed line profiles are variable with the phase of stellar rotation due to horizontal stratification of element abundances .",
    "the obtained spectra have been reduced using the dedicated software package libre - esprit @xcite which yields both the stokes i spectrum and the stokes v circular polarisation spectrum .",
    "the stokes v spectra are required to estimate and study the stellar magnetic field and its potential contribution to the atomic diffusion mechanism @xcite .",
    "the level of continuum ( free from absorbtion and emission lines ) in each echelle order of the stokes i spectra was approximated with a polynomial function and its coefficients were derived . using this polynomial function ,",
    "the stokes iv spectra were normalized resulting in a continuum with variations no larger than two to three percent . to estimate the effective temperature and gravity of the observed stars ( see next section )",
    ", we have used their non - normalized spectra @xcite .",
    "the abundance analysis of normalized polarimetric spectra has been carried out employing a modified version @xcite of the zeeman2 radiative transfer code @xcite , which requires atomic data and a synthetic stellar atmosphere model ( local temperature , pressure , electronic density , etc . relative to atmospheric optical depth ) characterized by the effective temperature , surface gravity and metallicity to simulate the synthetic line profiles .",
    "the atomic data provided by the vald-2 @xcite and nist @xcite databases have been used for our simulations . to determine the parameters of stellar atmospheres",
    ", one can fit the observed balmer line profiles with synthetic spectra from a grid of stellar atmosphere models with different values of @xmath6 , @xmath11 and metallicity .",
    "the stellar atmosphere models used here were calculated with the phoenix atmospheric code @xcite .    with the aim to estimate the effective temperature , surface gravity and metallicity of stars observed in the frame of the project veselka ,",
    "we have generated a new library of high resolution ( 0.05 in the visible range from 3700 to 7700 ) synthetic spectra @xcite using version fifteen of the phoenix code @xcite .",
    "a grid of stellar atmosphere models and corresponding fluxes has been calculated for 5000  k @xmath12 9000  k with a step of 250  k , for 9000  k @xmath13 15000  k with a step of 500  k and for 3.0 @xmath14 4.5 with a step of 0.5 .",
    "the grids of models have been produced for the solar metallicity @xcite as well as for the metallicities [ m / h]= -1.0 , -0.5 , + 0.5 , + 1.0 , + 1.5 assuming a nil microturbulent velocity .",
    "nine balmer line profiles observed in the non - normalized spectra of several cp stars selected for project veselka were fitted using the code fitsb2 @xcite to determine the fundamental parameters of their stellar atmosphere .",
    "an example of the best fit of balmer lines in hd  110380 obtained for the solar metallicity is presented in fig .",
    "this is a f2 m star ( see table .",
    "[ tab1 ] ) with @xmath6 = 6980 k , @xmath11 = 4.19 @xcite , for which our best fit approximates quite well also the caii 3934 and 3968 line profiles in the left side of the balmer @xmath15 line and in its left wing respectively ( see fig .  [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "we have found that our grids provide almost the same values of fundamental parameters of stellar atmospheres for the studied cp stars as do the atlas9 grids calculated by castelli & kurucz @xcite .",
    "however , while studying the sensitivity of the determined values of @xmath6 and @xmath11 to the set of balmer lines used , we have found that the use of the atlas9 grids may produce some ambiguity in the determination of fundamental stellar parameters if the effective temperature is close to 10000  k depending on which set of balmer lines is used .",
    "meanwhile , the phoenix-15 grids are not sensitive to the choice of balmer lines in the range of effective temperatures from 9700  k to 12000  k @xcite .",
    "from the analysis of observed line profiles while using the modified zeeman2 code @xcite , we can determine the radial velocity of the studied star , the projection of its rotational velocity to the line of sight v@xmath9 and the abundance of the chemical element responsible for this absorption line .",
    "fig  [ fig2 ] shows an example of the feii 4635 line profile observed in hd  95608 that is well fitted by the theoretical profile @xcite .",
    "preliminary analysis has shown that iron lines are not variable in the hd  95608 spectra obtained in a time span of few weeks . therefore , in the case of hd  95608 , we can use the line profile composed from the data of several spectral observations for our analysis ( see fig  [ fig2 ] ) .    for the abundance analysis",
    ", we usually select unblended ( not contaminated by a contribution from other chemical species ) absorbtion line profiles that belong to a particular ion . in our study , we assume that the core of the line profile is formed mainly at line optical depth @xmath16=1 , which corresponds to a particular layer of the stellar atmosphere.therefore , from the simulation of each line profile that belongs to a particular ion , we can obtain its abundance at a particular layer of the stellar atmosphere ( that corresponds to a particular continuum optical depth @xmath17 ) .",
    "taking into account that the analysed lines usually have different lower energetic levels and oscillator strengths , their cores are generally formed at different optical depths @xmath17 . in this way , we can study the vertical distribution of an element s abundance from the analysis of a large number ( at least ten or more ) line profiles that belong to one or two ions of this element that are detected in the analyzed spectrum @xcite .",
    "a statistically significant vertical stratification of the element s abundance is considered when the abundance change with optical depth exceeds 0.5 dex .",
    "more details on the fitting procedure are given in @xcite .",
    "this method was successfully used by khalack et al .",
    "@xcite to study the vertical abundance stratification of chemical species in bhb stars and by thiam et al .",
    "@xcite in hgmn stars .",
    "using our grids of stellar atmosphere models and synthetic spectra calculated with the phoenix-15 code @xcite we have estimated the values of effective temperature , surface gravity and metallicity for sixteen stars observed in the frame of veselka project @xcite .",
    "our results on @xmath6 and @xmath11 obtained for twelve of these stars are consistent with the previously published data . meanwhile , for the four other stars ( hd  23878 , hd  83373 , hd  95608 and hd  164584 ) we have for the first time reported the estimates of their effective temperature , gravity and metallicity in @xcite .",
    "estimation of average abundances and detection of vertical abundance stratification of some chemical species were carried out for several cp stars selected for project veselka @xcite .",
    "clear evidences of vertical stratification of iron and chromium abundances were found in the stellar atmospheres of hd  95608 and hd  116235 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] for an example ) . for the analysed chemical species ,",
    "no evidence of vertical stratification was found in the atmospheres of hd  71030 and hd  186568 @xcite .",
    "the radial and rotational velocities determined for the four stars under consideration are consistent with the values found in previous studies . according to leblanc et al .",
    "@xcite , hd  71030 does not show large abundance anomalies and it might be a normal main sequence star .",
    "two normal b - type stars hd  186568 and hd  209459 @xcite have been selected for project veselka as the reference stars ( see table  [ tab1 ] ) .",
    "we plan to use them to test the applied method for the detection of vertical abundance stratification and to verify our estimates of average abundance of chemical species well represented by a large number of spectral lines in the analysed spectra .",
    "as was mentioned above , we have not found signatures of vertical abundance stratification from the analysis of hd  186568 spectra .",
    "the solar abundances of titanium and iron were also obtained for hd  209459 , which is known to have no abundance peculiarities @xcite .",
    "the average abundances of oxygen , silicon , iron and chromium were obtained for different rotational phases of hd  22920 that shows clear signatures of the presence of a moderate magnetic field .",
    "all the analyzed elements show variability of their line profiles with the rotational phase .",
    "this argues in favour of a non - uniform horizontal distribution of their abundances . among the studied elements ,",
    "the siii line profiles show the strongest variability with rotational phase @xcite .    to study the vertical abundance stratification of chemical species ,",
    "the observed line profiles were fitted with the synthetic ones , simulated assuming a homogeneous horizontal distribution of element abundances and no magnetic field .",
    "this simplification is not physically correct , but for a given rotational phase it provides an estimate for the average abundances of chemical species .",
    "meanwhile , the contribution of the magnetic field is accounted for by the slightly larger value of v@xmath9 obtained as the final result of fitting . among the chemical species represented by a number of unblended spectral lines ,",
    "only silicon and chromium appear to show strong signatures of vertical stratification of their abundance in the stellar atmosphere of hd  22920 @xcite .",
    "[ fig4 ] shows that chromium has a tendency to increase its abundance towards the deeper atmospheric layers in hd  22920 .",
    "similar behaviour with atmospheric depth was also found for the silicon abundance @xcite .",
    "accumulation or depletion of chemical elements at certain optical depths brought about by atomic diffusion @xcite can modify the structure of stellar atmospheres of cp stars @xcite and lead to the observed horizontal @xcite and vertical @xcite stratification of element abundances . for the bp - ap stars",
    ", it is believed that the substantial magnetic field suppresses convection and contribute significantly to the mechanism of atomic diffusion @xcite . in this way , the magnetic field can stabilise the structure of abundance peculiarities in atmospheres of magnetic cp stars , so that they remain stable over more than fifty years of spectral observations @xcite . therefore , for a comprehensive study of the structure of stellar atmospheres in cp stars , it is important to detect and observationally estimate the intensity of vertical abundance stratification of different chemical species @xcite .",
    "such detections are the main goal of project veselka .",
    "these results may lead to improved calculations of the self - consistent stellar atmosphere models with vertical stratification of elements using the phoenix code @xcite , or other atmospheric models such as those of stift & alecian @xcite .    for several program cp stars ,",
    "we have estimated their effective temperature , surface gravity and metallicity through the fitting of nine balmer line profiles with synthetic spectra calculated for a grid of stellar atmosphere models . for this aim ,",
    "a new library of grids of stellar atmosphere models and corresponding fluxes has been generated and tested @xcite .",
    "the obtained stellar atmosphere parameters have been used to calculate homogeneous stellar atmosphere models , that were employed to perform an abundance analysis of hd  22920 , hd  23878 , hd  95608 , hd  116235 and hd  186568 @xcite with the help of the modified zeeman2 code @xcite . among the studied cp stars , signatures of vertical stratification of silicon and",
    "chromium abundances were found in hd  22920 @xcite , and of iron and chromium abundances in hd  95608 and hd  116235 @xcite .    in order to improve the precision of measurement of the abundance stratification with atmospheric depths for different chemical elements we need to analyse more unblended spectral line profiles that belong to each element .",
    "therefore , we plan to expand our study towards the near infrared spectral region , where absorbtion lines of many metals can be found for the cool upper main sequence stars ( spectral classes a0-f5 ) . for this aim",
    ", we look forward to analyse the spectra from the near ir spectropolarimetre / velocimetre spirou @xcite proposed to be installed in 2017 at the cfht .",
    "the canada foundation for innovation ( cfi ) has approved the production of a copy of spirou that is planned to be installed at a telescope with high aperture located in the southern hemisphere .",
    "the spectropolarimetre spirou will allow the acquisition of high resolution ( r>70000 ) stokes ivqu spectra throughout the spectral range from 0.98 to 2.5 @xmath18 m ( yjhk bands ) in a single exposure @xcite .",
    "such high spectral resolution in the near ir will provide the measurement of radial velocities with a precision higher than one meter per second @xcite .",
    "taking into account the aforementioned characteristics of spirou , we consider it to be very useful to search for signatures of vertical abundance stratification in stars .",
    "the high resolution near ir spectra of cp stars , even with the relatively low signal - to - noise ratio , in combination with their optical spectra could significantly improve the precision of the statistical evaluation of vertical stratification of element abundances .",
    "the abundance analysis of other cp stars selected for project veselka is underway .",
    "the use of available high - resolution and high signal - to - noise spectra of cp stars obtained by other astronomers will be analysed to accumulate an extensive database for vertical stratification of element abundances in these stars .",
    "the database will be used to search for a potential dependence of the vertical abundance stratification of different chemical species relative to the effective temperature similar to the one that we have found for bhb stars @xcite .",
    "we are also going to study the spectra of some magnetic bp - ap stars with the aim to detect vertical stratification of element abundances and to search for possible correlation of the abundance peculiarities with the magnetic field structure .",
    "special attention will be paid to the cp stars in binary systems , because due to the tidal interaction its members usually have a slow axial rotation @xcite , which can lead to a hydrodynamically stable atmosphere .",
    "[ fig5 ] shows an example of two overlapping spectra corrected for radial velocity of the main component in the spectroscopic binary hd  159082 .",
    "one can see there , that the fei and feii line profiles are relatively stable and can be used for the analysis of vertical abundance stratification .",
    "meanwhile , the cri , moi , nii and hei line profiles change significantly during a period of time shorter than one day .",
    "the spectra of the binary stars found in table  [ tab1 ] have been incorporated in the database of the binamics project @xcite that provides high quality spectra of magnetic cp stars in binary systems .",
    "we are thankful to the facult des tudes suprieures et de la recherche de luniversit de moncton and nserc for research grants .",
    "the grids of stellar atmosphere models and corresponding fluxes have been generated using the supercomputer _ briarree _ of luniversit de montral , that operates under the guidance of calcul qubec and calcul canada .",
    "the use of this supercomputer is funded by the canadian foundation for innovation ( cfi ) , nanoqubec , rmga and research fund of qubec - nature and technology ( frqnt ) .",
    "this paper has been typeset from a tex / latex file prepared by the authors .",
    "abt  h.a . , levato  h. , grosso  m. 2002 , apj , 573 , 359 alecian  g. , & stift  m.j .",
    "2010 , a&a , 516 , 53 alecian  e. , neiner  c. , wade  g.a .",
    "2015 , in _new windows on massive stars : asteroseismology , interferometry and spectropolarimetry_ , proc . of iaus 307 ,",
    "g.  meynet , c.  georgy , j.h .",
    "groh & ph .",
    "stee , 330 barrick  g.a .",
    ", vermeulen  t. , baratchart  s. , et al .",
    "2012 , in _software and cyberinfrastructure for astronomy ii._ , proc . of spie , 8451 , 15 , [ article i d .",
    "84513j ] behr  b.b .",
    "2003a , apjs , 149 , 67 behr  b.b .",
    "2003b , apjs , 149 , 101 burbidge  g.r . & burbidge  e.m .",
    "1955 , astrophys .",
    ", 1 , 431 bychkov  v.d .",
    ", bychkova  l.v . , & madej  j. 2003 , a&a 407 , 631 cannon  a.j .",
    "& pickering  e.c .",
    "1901 , annals of the astronomical observatory of harvard college , 28 , 129 castelli  f. , & kurucz  r.l . , 2003 , in _modelling of stellar atmospheres_ , proc .",
    "of iaus 210 , eds . :",
    "n.  piskunov , w.w .",
    "weiss , & d.f .",
    "gray , a20 delfosse  x. , donati  j .- f .",
    ", kouach  d. et al .",
    "2013 , in proc . of the annual meeting of the french soc . of astronomy and astrophysics , sf2a-2013 ,",
    "l.  cambresy , f.  martins , e.  nuss , & a.  palacios , 497 donati  j .- f . , semel  m. , carter  b.d . , et al . , 1997 , mnras , 291 , 658 donati  j .- f . ,",
    "catala  c. , wade  g.a . , et al . , 1999 , a&ass , 134 , 149 donati  j .- f . , catala  c. , landstreet  j.d . , petit  p. , & espadons team 2006 , in _solar polarization 4_ , asp conf .",
    "series , 358 , eds .",
    ": r.  casini , & b.w .",
    "lites , 362 dworetsky  m.m . , &",
    "budaj  j. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , 1264 glaspey  j.w .",
    ", michaud  g. , moffat  a.f.j . , & demers  s. 1989 , apj , 339 , 926 grevesse  n. , asplund  m. , suaval  a.j .",
    ", & scott  p. 2010 ,",
    "ap&ss , 328 , 179 grundahl  f. , vandenberg  d.a , andersen  m.i .",
    "1998 , apj , 500 , l179 grundahl  f. , catelan  m. , landsman  w.b .",
    ", stetson  p.b .",
    ", & andersen  m. 1999 , apj , 524 , 242 hauschildt  p.h . , shore  s.n . ,",
    "schwarz  g.j . , et al . , 1997 , apj , 490 , 803 hearnshaw  j.b .",
    "2014 , _the analysis of starlight : two centuries of astronomical spectroscopy_ , cambrige university press , new york hubrig  s. , & castelli  f. , 2001 , a&a , 375 , 963 hui - bon - hoa  a. , leblanc  f. , hauschildt  p.h .",
    "2000 , apj , 535 , l43 khalack  v. , & wade  g. 2006 , a&a , 450 , 1157 khalack  v. , leblanc  f. , bohlender  d. , wade  g.a . , behr  b.b .",
    "2007 , a&a , 466 , 667 khalack  v.r . , leblanc  f. , behr  b.b . ,",
    "wade  g.a . , bohlender  d. 2008 , a&a , 477 , 641 khalack  v.r . , leblanc  f. , behr  b.b .",
    "2010 , mnras , 407 , 1767 khalack  v. , yameogo  b. , thibeault  c. , leblanc  f. 2014 , in _magnetic fields throughout stellar evolution_ , proc . of iaus 302 ,",
    "eds . : p.  petit , m.  jardine , & h.c .",
    "spruit , 272 khalack  v. , & poitras  p. 2015",
    ", in _new windows on massive stars : asteroseismology , interferometry and spectropolarimetry_ , proc . of iaus 307 , eds .",
    ": g.  meynet , c.  georgy , j.h .",
    "groh & ph .",
    "stee , 383 khalack  v.r .",
    ", leblanc  f. 2015 , aj , accepted , [ arxiv:1505.08158 ] khochukhov  o. , piskunov  n. , ilyin  i. , ilyina  s. , tuominen  i. 2002 , a&a , 389 , 420 khokhlova  v.l .",
    "1975 , astron .",
    ", 52 , 950 kramida  a. , ralchenko  yu . , reader  j. , & nist asd team 2013 , nist atomic spectra database ( ver .",
    "available : http://physics.nist.gov/asd .",
    "national institute of standards and technology , gaithersburg , md kupka  f. , piskunov  n. , ryabchikova  t.a .",
    ", stempels  h.c . , weiss  w.w . , 1999 , a&as , 138 , 119 landstreet  j.d .",
    "1988 , apj , 326 , 967 leblanc  f. , monin  d. , hui - bon - hoa  a. , hauschildt  p.h . , 2009 , a&a , 495 , 937 leblanc  f. , hui - bon - hoa  a. , khalack  v. 2010 , mnras , 409 , 1606 leblanc  f. , khalack  v. , yameogo  b. , thibeault  c. , gallant  i. 2015 , mnras , submitted maitzen  h.m .",
    "1984 , a&a , 138 , 493 mashonkina  l. , ryabchikova  t. , ryabtsev  a. 2005 , a&a , 441 , 309 mathys  g. , hubrig  s. 1997 , a&as , 124 , 475 maury  ac . & pickering  e.c .",
    "1897 , annals of the astronomical observatory of harvard college , 28 , 1 michaud  g. 1970 , apj , 160 , 641 moehler  s. , 2004 , in _the a - star puzzle_ , proc . of iaus 224 ,",
    ": zverko  j. , weiss  w.w . , iovsk  j. , & adelman  s.j . , 119 morgan  w.w .",
    "1931 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 73 , 104 morgan  w.w .",
    "1933 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 77 , 77 napiwotzki  r. , yungelson  l. , nelemans  g. , et al .",
    "2004 , in _spectroscopically and spatially resolving the components of the close binary stars_ , asp conf .",
    "series , 318 , eds .",
    "hilditch , h.  hensberge & k.  pavlovski , 402 peterson  r.c .",
    ", rood  r.t . , &",
    "crocker  d.a .",
    "1995 , apj , 453 , 214 preston  g.w . 1974 , astron .",
    "12 , 257 romanyuk  i.i .",
    ", semenko  e.a .",
    ", kudryavtsev  d.o .",
    "2014 , astrophysical bulletin , 69 , 4 , 427 ryabchikova  t. , wade  g.a . ; leblanc  f. 2003 , in _modelling of stellar atmospheres_ , proc . of iaus 210 ,",
    "n.  piskunov , w.w .",
    "weiss , & d.f .",
    "gray , 301 ryabchikova  t. , leone  f. , kochukhov  o. , bagnulo  s. 2004 , in _the a - star puzzle_ , proc . of iaus 224 ,",
    ": zverko  j. , weiss  w.w . ,",
    "iovsk  j. , & adelman  s.j .",
    ", 580 ryabchikova  t. , kochukhov  o. , bagnulo  s. 2008 , a&a , 480 , 811 recio - blanco  a. , piotto  g. , aparicio  a. , & renzini  a. 2004 , a&a , 417 , 597 renson  p. , manfroid  j. 2009 , a&a 498 , 961 shapley  h. 1924 , harvard coll .",
    "observ . bull .",
    "798 , 2 shavrina  a.v .",
    ", glagolevskij  yu.v .",
    ", silvester  j. , et al .",
    "2010 , mnras , 401 , 1882 smith  k.c .",
    "1996 , asptrophys . & space sci .",
    ", 237 , 77 song  h.f . , maeder  a. , meynet  g. , et al .",
    "2013 , a&a , 556 , 100 stift  m.j . , alecian  g. 2012 , mnras , 425 ,",
    "2715 thiam  m. , leblanc  f. , khalack  v. , wade  g.a .",
    "2010 , mnras , 405 , 1384"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a new research project on spectral analysis that aims to characterize the vertical stratification of element abundances in stellar atmospheres of chemically peculiar ( cp ) stars is discussed in detail . </S>",
    "<S> some results on detection of vertical abundance stratification in several slowly rotating main sequence cp stars are presented and considered as an indicator of the effectiveness of the atomic diffusion mechanism responsible for the observed peculiarities of chemical abundances . </S>",
    "<S> this study is carried out in the frame of project veselka ( vertical stratification of elements abundance ) for which 34 slowly rotating cp stars have been observed with the espadons spectropolarimeter at cfht . + * key words : * diffusion , line : profiles , stars : abundances , atmospheres , chemically peculiar , magnetic field , rotation    @xmath0dpartement de physique et dastronomie , universit de moncton , moncton , n .- b . , canada e1a 3e9 + khalakv@umoncton.ca + francis.leblanc@umoncton.ca </S>"
  ]
}