{
  "article_text": [
    "the first gravitationally lensed quasar @xcite has been discovered more than 30 years ago , turning gravitational lensing from an obscure theoretical field into a mainstream observational one .",
    "more than 100 strongly lensed quasars have been discovered to date , and it has convincingly been demonstrated that these objects provide insights into various topics in astrophysics and cosmology , as well as being a unique tool for studying the dark universe .",
    "applications include the study of the quasar host galaxies at high redshift ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , dark matter substructures and luminous satellites ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the structure and evolution of massive galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and microlensing applied in the study of the structure of quasar accretion disk ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , broad line regions(e.g .",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as to measure the stellar mass fractions in the lens ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "following early work by e.g. @xcite , analyses of statistically well - defined samples of lensed quasars ( i.e. samples in which lens candidates are selected by a homogeneous method whose completeness is known ) can now constrain the cosmological constant / dark energy by comparing the number and distribution of image separation of lensed quasars with theoretical models ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "time delay measurements between quasar images constrain the hubble constant free of the calibration in the cosmic distance ladder ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "finally , the distribution of lensed image separations , from galaxy to cluster mass scales , reflects the hierarchical structure formation and the effects of baryon cooling ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the sloan digital sky survey quasar lens search ( sqls ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is a systematic survey for lensed quasars , aiming to construct a large sample of gravitationally lensed quasars at optical wavelengths .",
    "it relies on the large homogeneous sample of spectroscopically - confirmed quasars from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; * ? ? ?",
    "the techniques employed by the sqls to identify lensed quasar candidates are described in the references above .",
    "we followed up all candidates with deeper imaging ( usually with the university of hawaii 2.2 m telescope ; uh88 ) to detect the lensing galaxy .",
    "we then performed follow - up spectroscopy of the most promising candidates , to confirm their lensing nature .",
    "sqls is at present the prominent search for lensed quasars in the optical , comprising of 62 lensed quasars to date ( december 2014 ) , @xmath12/3 of which are new discoveries ( @xcite ) .",
    "it has also produced the largest statistically complete sample of lensed quasars ( 26 objects ; @xcite ) .",
    "a disadvantage of sqls , like other ground - based optical strong lens surveys , is its poor detail in imaging lensed quasars .",
    "even when performing follow - up observations with the uh88 telescope , the pixel scale @xmath2 is large , and the seeing @xmath3 is similar to the image separation of a galaxy - scale strong lens ( @xmath4 ) .",
    "therefore , high - resolution imaging of these quasar lenses is the key to turning each lens into a highly useful astrophysical and cosmological probe .",
    "this is necessary for obtaining accurate relative astrometry and point / surface photometry for the quasar images , lensing galaxy , and quasar host galaxy ( in case the latter is detected ) , which are used to constrain both the light and the mass distribution in these systems .    in the following , we highlight three of the applications enabled by the high - resolution images of a large sample of objects , such as the sample provided by our work .    _ estimating the hubble constant from high resolution and time delay measurements : _ although monitoring observations , for which only relative fluxes are relevant , can be performed with small telescopes aided by image deconvolution , to determine time delays measurements between multiple images , ( e.g. , * ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , high resolution single epoch observations are still required to construct an accurate lens model ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . as time delays are currently being measured by the cosmological monitoring of gravitational lenses ( cosmograil ; *",
    "* ) for many of the sqls lenses , high resolution data is in demand .",
    "for example , @xcite obtained high resolution images of a four - image lensed quasar with an early adaptive optics systems , resulting in a relative lens galaxy position three times more precise than before , which allowed to measure the hubble constant two times more precisely than in previous studies .",
    "_ quasar galaxy hosts and the correlation with @xmath5 : _ the tight correlations found between the masses of supermassive black holes @xmath5 and overall properties of the host galaxy bulges , such as velocity dispersion , luminosity and stellar mass ( e.g. , * ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggest that the black hole growth is coupled to the galaxy evolution .",
    "these correlations have been established for local galaxies , based on spatially resolved kinematics .",
    "since spatially resolved kinematics are very difficult to obtain at @xmath6 , the most straightforward correlation that can be studied at large redshifts is the one between @xmath5 and the bulge galaxy luminosity . however , in this case agns or quasars must be employed , as the nuclear activity allows the estimation of @xmath5 using the virial technique ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "the difficulty then lies in accurately decomposing the faint quasar host , which is subject to the cosmological surface brightness dimming , from the bright nuclear source .",
    "as was demonstrated by @xcite , this task is facilitated for gravitationally lensed quasars by two effects .",
    "first , strong gravitational lensing produces natural magnification typically by several factors , by increasing the total flux and the apparent size of the host galaxy , while conserving surface brightness .",
    "second , lensing distorts the host into an arc and gives it a dramatically different morphology from that of the point spread function ( psf ) , making it significantly less susceptible to systematic problems in the psf model ( an inaccurately known psf ) .",
    "high - resolution observations are paramount in measuring the surface brightness of the lensed host galaxy .    _",
    "the ellipticity and orientation of mass and light in the lensing galaxies : _ an ongoing question is to what extent there are correlations between the azimuthal luminous profile of the lens galaxies and their overall ( dark + luminous ) mass profile .",
    "strong lensing provides a unique tool for testing these correlations .",
    "there exists a known correlation between the mass and light orientation , within @xmath7 deg ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it is not presently known however if the scatter in the relation is intrinsic , or due to measurement errors . on the other hand ,",
    "there is less consensus on a correlation between the mass and light ellipticity . for example",
    ", such a tight correlation was found by @xcite for the sloan lens acs survey ( slacs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) sample of galaxy - galaxy lenses ( i.e. foreground galaxies acting as strong lenses for background galaxies ) , although @xcite did not find a correlation for a selected subsample of the slacs lenses .",
    "a correlation was also found for the sl2s galaxy - galaxy lenses @xcite , but has significantly more scatter .",
    "there are also recent results from different samples ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the difference between the slacs and sl2s lenses is that the former lie in an environment with significantly less average external shear @xmath8 , and also that they have smaller einstein radius @xmath9 relative to the characteristic scale ( effective radius ) of the galaxy @xmath10 , resulting in the more relevant role played by stellar mass in defining the potential within the critical curve ( @xmath11 , 0.5 for sl2s and slacs , respectively ) . for much larger values of @xmath12 , studies based on weak",
    "lensing ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) found that the dark matter haloes , which dominate the mass profile at these radii , are flatter than the luminous profile , in agreement with theoretical expectations .",
    "for the lenses of strongly lensed quasars , initial hubble space telescope ( @xmath13 ) observations have failed to find a correlation between the mass and light ellipticity @xcite .",
    "more recent results employing a uniform analysis technique and deconvolution of @xmath13 data are presented in @xcite and show that there is a correlation for their sample of four - image lensed quasars ( quads ) .",
    "the slacs lenses and the lenses of strongly lensed quasars are known to probe different populations of lenses , with lensed quasars typically lying in richer environments ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "in addition , for most lensed quasars @xmath9 is on the order of a few @xmath10 , therefore probing an intermediate range .",
    "the new correlation found by @xcite , after eliminating the outliers , holds only for ellipticities @xmath14 . for these small ellipticities , as the authors note , one possible bias resulting in the correlation is that the effect of a rounder dark matter halo on the total mass distribution may be harder to detect .",
    "the goal of this work is to enhance the value of the sqls gravitationally lensed quasar sample through the use of high - resolution observations . among the 62 lensed quasars in the sqls sample , only @xmath15 have available high - resolution observations , mainly supplied by @xmath13 .",
    "however , recent progress of adaptive optics ( ao ) , especially the use of laser guide stars ( lgs ) , makes it possible to obtain high - resolution images using ground - based telescopes . due to the smaller diffraction limit , near - infrared imaging with subaru telescope ao",
    "can potentially achieve _ three times _ the spatial resolution of @xmath13 , while also employing a finer pixel scale .",
    "ao has previously been used in the literature in the study of gravitationally lensed quasars .",
    "@xcite , @xcite and @xcite used ao to study galaxy scale two - image lensed quasars ( doubles ) .",
    "@xcite discovered additional lensing galaxies in known lensed quasars , using ao .",
    "@xcite observed a quad in order to look for substructure , which @xcite was successful in detecting for another quad .",
    "in addition , @xcite and @xcite have used ao to study the arcs of strongly lensed galaxies , reconstruct the source , or study in high detail the lensing galaxy . however , these have been isolated studies focused on single systems . the observational campaign described in this paper",
    "is the largest dedicated study of a large sample of lensed quasars with ao .    in section",
    "[ section : obsall ] we present our observing strategy and describe acquired data including data reduction . in section [ section : technique ]",
    "we present the morphological modelling technique we employed , and in section [ section : lensmodels ] the mass modelling technique .",
    "we continue with a comparison of our results with those found for the same systems in the literature ( section [ sect : discuss ] ) , and a concluding discussion of the technique we used , in section [ sect : discutionoverall ] .",
    "section [ section : hostfacts ] shows results obtained on the quasar host galaxies .",
    "finally , section [ section : lightmass ] studies the lens environment and the relation between mass and light for the systems in our sample , and section [ sect : concl ] concludes this work . in the main appendix",
    ", we describe in detail the analysis of each individual system .    throughout this work",
    ", the concordance cosmology with @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 and @xmath19 is assumed .",
    "for sdss  j1001 + 5027 and sdss  j1206 + 4332 , where time delay measurements are available , the @xcite result , @xmath20 , is assumed .",
    "magnitudes are given in the vega system .",
    "all object coordinates assume j2000 .",
    "all observed images and residual plots are in logarithmic scale .",
    "sky coverage is a limiting factor when using ao , as all targets must be located close to a tip - tilt ( tt ) star of suitable brightness in order to perform ao correction , even in the case that lgs is used .",
    "subaru telescope however presently has the most relaxed constraints on tt star , among comparable systems on 8 - 10 m telescopes ( section [ section : ircsao ] ) .",
    "this makes it an ideal tool to use in the observational campaign of the sqls quasars .",
    "indeed , 54 of the 62 sqls quasars are accessible to the subaru telescope ao system .    the ao correction functions",
    "better at longer wavelengths ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , making @xmath21-band the natural choice among the widely used @xmath22 near - infrared bands . an additional reason to use @xmath21-band in the study of quasars and their host galaxies",
    "is that for redshifts @xmath23 , @xmath21-band falls in a wavelength region where the quasar host galaxy is brightest compared to the nuclear source ( figure [ fig : qsogal ] ) .",
    "moreover , for the purpose of modelling gravitationally lensed quasars , extinction , intrinsic variability and microlensing are all weaker at progressively longer wavelengths , contaminating the true image flux ratio less ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) . however , exposure times in the @xmath21-band are limited by the strong sky background emission . on the other hand",
    ", @xmath24-band provides a good compromise between background level , sensitivity , and ao performance , and we therefore used this band throughout the observation campaign .",
    "band at redshifts 0 and 2.5 marked .",
    "the composite quasar spectrum is from @xcite . for the galaxy template",
    ", the mean spectrum of local galaxies from @xcite is extrapolated using the evolutionary models of @xcite .",
    "[ fig : qsogal],width=321 ]    as one of the goals of the campaign is to measure accurate lens galaxy morphologies and potentially resolve the quasar host galaxies from the point - like nuclear source , a good knowledge of the psf is essential . for the majority of the systems , we used the sdss casjobs search query to identify bright psf and guide star pairs .",
    "these were selected such that the guide stars of the psf and the target have similar brightness , and the separations between the target and its guide star , as well as the psf and its respective guide star , are similar .",
    "the psfs are close on the sky to the target ( within @xmath25 ) , and they were observed immediately before or after the target , in the same natural guide star ( ngs ) or lgs mode .",
    "this was done to ensure as much as possible that the atmospherical turbulence characteristics and therefore the ao correction is relatively constant between the psf and the target . however , as we will discuss below , these separately observed psf stars turn out not to be suitable for the accurate characterisation of the target image psfs .",
    "sdss  j1515 + 1511 and sdss  j1002 + 4449 are the only observed systems that have a bright star in the detector field of view ( fov ) , which can potentially be used as psf .",
    "here we centred the fov , and therefore the lgs , between the star and the target .",
    "this was done , again , so that the ao correction at the location of the target and the psf star is similar .",
    "the ao imaging observations were performed with the infrared camera and spectrograph ( ircs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) at the subaru telescope , along with the laser guide star adaptive optics system ( lgs@xmath26ao188 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "ircs uses two @xmath27 alladin iii arrays for imaging and spectroscopy , and in imaging mode provides two plate scales , of 52 and 20 mas per pixel . after",
    "the distortion correction described in section [ section : distort ] , the pixel scales are @xmath28 and @xmath29 , respectively .",
    "the available fovs are @xmath30 and @xmath31 , respectively .",
    "ao188 uses a curvature sensor with 188 control elements , operating at 2000 hz , and a 188 element bimorph deformable mirror ( bim188 ) .",
    "it operates at the nasmyth focus of the subaru telescope .",
    "both ngs and lgs modes are available . the recommended guide star constraints in ngs mode are brightness larger than @xmath32 mag , within @xmath33 from the target .",
    "the lgs mode uses an artificial sodium laser guide star @xcite for high - order wavefront sensing .",
    "the lgs is typically less bright than @xmath34 mag in @xmath35-band .",
    "the recommended tip - tilt star constraints in lgs mode are brightness larger than @xmath36 mag , within @xmath37 ( acceptable up to @xmath38 ) from the target .",
    "more information about ao188 is provided on the instrument web page .",
    "the observations were performed between 2011 - 2014 . in total ,",
    "@xmath39 nights were assigned for the present campaign , about half of which were lost due to telescope / instrument trouble or cloud coverage .",
    "observation priority was given based on the scientific interest of each target and the degree to which the targets are suitable for ao observations in terms of tt star brightness and separation , and distance to zenith / airmass .",
    "the 28 objects that were successfully observed , the observation modes , exposure times , filters , pixel scales , typical airmass , photometric stars and observation dates are given in table [ tab : followup - data ] .",
    "two of the objects , sdss  j0820 + 0812 and sdss  j1206 + 4332 , were observed as back - up , without ao .",
    "all observations were performed with 5 or 9-point dithering , in order to remove bad pixels and cosmic rays , and to allow for flat frame and sky frame creation from the data .",
    "although dome flats were obtained for some observations , these have proven to be of inferior quality .",
    "although the targets were chosen to be accessible to ao , many of these border the recommended limit in terms of the tt brightness and separation .",
    "as such , low strehl ratios @xmath40 ( table [ tab : analpsf ] ) were typically obtained .",
    "the 52 mas pixel scale mode was typically used , in order to increase the signal - to - noise ( s / n ) and not to avoid significantly oversampled psfs .",
    "the list of observed tt and psf stars is given in table [ tab : ao ] .",
    "for 12 objects , psf star observations were skipped because of rapidly changing atmospheric conditions .",
    "typical seeing during the observations can be inferred from table [ tab : analpsf ] , and was generally @xmath41 .",
    "data reduction was performed with iraf , using the ircs imgred package designed to reduce data obtained with ircs .",
    "the reduction consisted of the following steps :    1 .",
    "each frame was checked for dark patterns by dividing it to the next observed frame .",
    "also , the number of counts at the location of the target was checked for linearity .",
    "all targets are well inside linearity limit , except for the core of the star inside the fov for sdss  j0743 + 2457 ( within 5% ) , and cores of the bright quasar images in sdss  j0904 + 1512 ( within 3% ) , sdss  j1322 + 1052 ( within 2% ) and sdss  j1353 + 1138 ( within 4% ) .",
    "as persistent fringe artifacts were found in the dome flats , sky flats were created by masking bad pixels and bright objects , then median - combining the dithered frames which were divided by the mean count value .",
    "each raw frame was corrected for different pixel sensitivities by division to the sky flat .",
    "the geometric distortion correction map described in section [ section : distort ] was applied .",
    "sky - background frames were generated by median - combining the flat - fielded frames .",
    "as the near - infrared sky is highly time - variable , the sky - background frames were generated for each dither sequence individually .",
    "pixel values for the masked pixels were interpolated from the combined ones . before subtracting the sky frame , each frame was normalized so that their median values match each other .",
    "position offsets between the images were obtained via cross - correlations between regions that contain bright objects , typically the targets .",
    "cosmic rays falling in the regions used to perform the cross - correlations were manually masked .",
    "the full - width at half - maximum ( fwhm ) of star - like objects in each frame was measured by fitting a moffat function to the radial profile with the iraf imexam task , and the frames with significantly different values were discarded .",
    "the frames were average - combined using rejection algorithms ( average sigma clipping or clipping based on the ccd parameters ) .",
    "pixel binning was performed for a few frames with significantly oversampled psf , as mentioned in appendix [ section : objectsdescript ] .",
    "photometric zero - point calibration was performed , typically using standard stars .",
    "all objects were corrected for galactic extinction @xcite , and atmospheric extinction relative to the standard star .",
    "it must be noted that the standard star catalogue magnitudes at @xmath42band were used to calibrate the photometry at @xmath43band .",
    "however , the expected differences based on interpolation are small ( @xmath44 mag ) .",
    "after reducing the data , it became clear that none of the separately - observed psf stars represent suitable psfs to model the corresponding systems .",
    "this was also concluded by other studies employing separately observed psf calibrators ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the reason is psf variability , both in the science targets and the separately - observed stars .",
    "this is caused by the rapid change of the atmospheric turbulence characteristics , which induce different responses from the ao system .",
    "figure [ fig:0946psf ] shows the time variability of the core component fwhm in the psf for both the target and the separately - observed star in sdss  j0946 + 1835 , as well as the outstanding residuals obtained if the star is used as a psf to model the system .",
    "it is imperative that we construct a well - characterised psf for each system , in order to reach the science goal , i.e. obtain an accurate astrometrical , photometrical and morphological characterisation of the multiple components of each observed system . in order to guide the reader",
    ", here we provide a short summary of the following subsections , in which we illustrate in detail our psf reconstruction and modelling technique . in section [ aopsf ]",
    "we give general considerations on the ao psf . in section [ section : newmethod ]",
    "we briefly mention the ao psf modelling techniques encountered in the literature . in section [ hostlens ]",
    "we introduce our technique of modelling analytically all components of a gravitationally lensed quasar simultaneously , as their light profiles overlap , and derive the most suitable analytical profile .",
    "we describe the implementation of this technique , where we take special care to properly explore the parameter space . in section [",
    "subsection : hybrid ] we show that for selected systems we can go beyond an analytical psf , and we derive a hybrid psf that specifically accounts for the non - analytical components . in the next sections ( [ section : hostfit ] and [ section : simulate ] , respectively ) , we describe how we need to modify out technique to model systems where we detect a quasar host galaxy , as its profile fitting requires a mass model .",
    "we then insure that the error estimates for each derived parameter accounts for systematics introduced by our modelling technique .",
    "finally , in section [ section : distort ] we address the issue of how the instrument field distortion impacts our derived astrometry .        for a seeing - limited image , spatial resolution",
    "is usually characterised by the fwhm of a point - like stellar profile .",
    "this characterisation becomes unreliable near the diffraction limit , as the fwhm measurement is complicated due to the diffraction rings . in the diffraction limit",
    ", the shape of the psf is described by a two - dimensional airy function ( ignoring the telescope spider ) , with the first diffraction ring at an angular distance of @xmath45 from the centre ; here @xmath46 denotes wavelength , and @xmath47 is the diameter of the telescope mirror . in this case",
    "the strehl ratio @xcite is used , and is defined as the ratio of the intensity at the peak of the observed seeing disc divided by the intensity at the peak of the theoretical airy disc .    in general",
    "the ao psf is described as two components : a nearly diffraction - limited core of fwhm @xmath48 , and a seeing limited halo / wing of fwhm @xmath49 , where @xmath50 is fried s parameter @xcite .",
    "the core is typically approximated by a gaussian ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , whereas the halo is approximated by a moffat profile ( * ? ? ?",
    "* section [ hostlens ] ) , which has a more extended wing than a gaussian .    as a product of the atmosphere as well as the ao system , the ao psf exhibits both temporal and spatial variability . the spatial variability ( anisoplanatism )",
    "causes the psf to vary across the fov . in lgs",
    "ao , there are three sources of anisoplanatism ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "angular anisokinetism ( or tip - tilt angular anisoplanatism ) results from the difference between the tip - tilt component of the wavefronts of the tt star and the science object , and is radially symmetric around the tt star .",
    "focal anisoplanatism ( the cone effect ) occurs because the lgs ( located at a finite altitude ) samples the cone of turbulence between the lgs and the telescope , while the turbulence experienced by the science object is distributed in a cylinder .",
    "finally , angular anisoplanatism results from the difference in the higher order wavefront terms between lgs and the science object .",
    "in the course of this work , the psf is assumed not to vary spatially for objects in close proximity of each other , such as the multiple components of a gravitationally lensed system .",
    "indeed , these objects are separated by @xmath51 , much less than the isoplanatic angle in the lgs mode .",
    "there are several examples in the literature of modelling ao lensed quasars without an a priori known psf .",
    "these made use of the typical structure of a lensed quasar : two or four point - like images with a lensing galaxy in between . while the quasar point - source is safely unresolved , since it is typically located at high redshift , the quasar host galaxy may or may not be resolved . in all cases , only doubles where the host galaxy is unresolved were modelled in the literature , and in the case of quads , the host was actively removed during modelling , without estimating any of its physical parameters .",
    "@xcite modelled the double sdss j0806 + 2006 with the psf estimated from the more isolated , brighter image , and employing image deconvolution .",
    "they do not mention however if any systematics are introduced by this technique .",
    "@xcite however argued for the use of convolution against deconvolution , since the psf is poorly defined , the s / n is limited , and smooth extended emission ( in the case of hosts ) makes the results uncertain .",
    "when there is a physical model to test , they advise that the best approach is to convolve that model with the best estimate of the psf and then compare the result to the observations .",
    "@xcite took advantage of the cross configuration of the quad sdss j0924 + 0219 , where the host galaxy has a different morphology at the location of each image , and estimated the psf by combining the superposed and normalised images , in an iterative procedure .",
    "@xcite analysed the quad b0128 + 437 by iteratively fitting a psf modelled as three gaussian components , together with the lensing galaxy modelled with a sersic profile .",
    "@xcite modelled the psf for a lensed double by using a hybrid composed of the observed brightness distribution of the bright image at the centre , and analytical wings .",
    "there is enough information ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) in the multiple images of a lensed system to reconstruct the psf . in this paper",
    ", we combined the approach of @xcite and @xcite into a new technique , by adopting an analytical psf model and simultaneously optimising for the global psf parameters as well as the individual objects comprising the system : multiple point sources , and the lensing galaxy modelled as a sersic profile convolved with the psf .",
    "where possible , we take an additional step where we refine this fit by using a hybrid psf ( section [ subsection : hybrid ] ) . the optimisation is performed using a downhill simplex method @xcite to find the minimum goodness - of - fit @xmath52 in parameter space , and is implemented in a new software , hostlens , which was developed by one of us ( m. oguri ) .",
    "hostlens combines the functionality of galfit with that of glafic @xcite . like galfit",
    ", it allows the simultaneous fitting of both point and extended sources , but in addition can simultaneously optimise the parameters of an analytical psf .",
    "like glafic , it can fit an observed lensing configuration with a mass model , while simultaneously fitting analytically the morphology of an extended lensed source , such as a quasar host galaxy ( section [ section : hostfit ] ) .",
    "we note that most of the functionalities of hostlens are currently implemented in glafic .",
    "we considered several analytical psf models to use with hostlens . according to section [ aopsf ] ,",
    "the ao psf consists of two components , one describing the compact psf core , and the other one the extended seeing wings .",
    "@xcite used a single moffat profile , whose wings are more extended than that of a gaussian , to approximate the full ao psf .",
    "@xcite stated that the psf is generally matched quite well by the sum of a narrow gaussian for the core , and either a moffat or another gaussian for the halo .",
    "@xcite used a gaussian for the core and an exponential function for the wings .",
    "@xcite , mentioned above , used three gaussians : one component represents the diffraction - limited core , another represents the seeing - limited diffuse psf , and the third encodes structure in the psf . in order to find the most appropriate model , we fitted the majority of bright stars observed during the observation runs ( i.e. the psf stars ) with analytical profiles .",
    "two of these fits are shown in figures [ fig : starresid2d ] and [ fig : starresid1d ] .",
    "the first figure shows a two - dimensional fit and the subsequent residuals after subtracting elliptical but concentric 1 moffat , 1 gaussian + 1 moffat , 2 moffat , and 3 gaussian profiles , respectively .",
    "the second shows the fitted radial plot corresponding to the same models . as can be seen , both in terms of the formal @xmath53d.o.f .",
    ", as well as in terms of the appearance of residuals , and radial profile matches , the 2 moffat profile provides the best fit .",
    "this is found in the overwhelming majority of fitted stars , although in some cases , such as the second example shown , the 1 gaussian + 1 moffat profile provides a similarly good fit .",
    "the residuals in the other models all show a concentric halo , and do not match the overall radial profiles . on the other hand ,",
    "none of the models ( including 2 moffat ) is able to model the non - analytical components close to the centre .",
    "this entirely empirical analysis resulted in the decision to use the 2 moffat profile as the analytical psf for hostlens .",
    "the better fit of a moffat core , which is more extended than a gaussian , may be due to the very small strehl ratios @xmath54% typically obtained in the observations .",
    "indeed , the typical core fwhm is @xmath55 , about three times that of the diffraction - limited core .",
    "where @xmath57 is the elliptical radial distance , @xmath58 is the distance to the centre along the semimajor ( semiminor ) axis and @xmath59 is the ratio of the semiminor to the semimajor axis ; @xmath60 is a parameter specifying the shape of the profile , related to the core - to - halo flux ratio . the moffat profile results into a gaussian profile as the @xmath61 case . in hostlens ,",
    "the psf is modelled with 9 analytical parameters : two for each of the four components of an individual moffat profile : fwhm , ellipticity , position angle and @xmath60 , as well as one parameter specifying the relative distribution of flux , flux1/(flux1 + flux2 ) .",
    "the two moffat profiles are concentric .",
    "each point source is modelled with three parameters : the positions along x and y , and the total flux .",
    "in addition , every sersic profile has ellipticity , orientation , effective radius and sersic index parameters .",
    "finally , there is a parameter for the sky value .",
    "therefore , a typical two - image lensed system requires 24 parameters to model analytically .",
    "we modelled each system with hostlens , at least at an initial stage .",
    "the derived analytical parameters of all psfs are shown in table [ tab : analpsf ] .",
    "we selected suitably large cut regions ( typically @xmath62 ) around the targets , and masked all objects that were not simultaneously fitted by hostlens , in order to allow reliable sky value estimates and model fitting .",
    "due to the large number of parameters and the possibility that the parameters might get trapped in a local @xmath52 minimum , we chose 500 sets of different initial parameter values from a range of plausible values , e.g. from a flat distribution in the case of position angles , and a gaussian distribution around the iraf imexam - derived value for the core fwhm component .",
    "we chose the model with the lowest value of @xmath52 ( we also checked the second - best model to be similar ) , and in addition we performed a parameter search around it using markov - chain monte carlo ( mcmc ) , for the purpose of both refining the parameter values , and estimating confidence intervals ( error bars ) .",
    "we ran ten mcmc chains , and removed a fraction of @xmath63 of the points from the head of each chain ( the  burn - in stage \" points ; i.e sensitive to the start values ) . to test the convergence of these chains , we compared the variance of the distribution of points in each chain to the variance of the combined distribution , following @xcite . after applying a smoothing technique , the combined chains provided 68% confidence intervals on the analytical parameters ( @xmath64 in the gaussian approximation ) .    throughout this work ,",
    "unless otherwise stated , for all the systems where we did not detect a quasar host galaxy , and which we fitted with a hostlens - produced analytical psf , we also checked the modelling results for consistency , with galfit . in order to produce with",
    "galfit error bars that account for the uncertainties of the analytical psf , we produced 500 realisations of the hostlens - produced psf , by drawing at random from the probability distribution of the analytical parameters of the psf , obtained during the mcmc runs above ; we then ran galfit with each of the 500 psfs , and took the standard deviations of the resulting parameters as an error estimate .",
    "we did not use galfit for the systems with host galaxy detections , as it lacks the functionality to fit this component ( see section [ section : hostfit ] ) .",
    "we note that hostlens and glafic measure the effective radius of a sersic profile using a circularised radius , while galfit measures the radius along the semi - major axis .",
    "the effective radii measured in this paper are reported following the galfit definition . for the lensing galaxies",
    ", we considered both an unconstrained sersic index @xmath65 and @xmath66 ( table [ tab : lensmorphology ] ) , in order to ease comparison with other samples of lenses where the light profile is modelled as a de vaucouleurs profile ( see * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "the observed systems can be classified into two categories , according to the degree in which the bright image a is separated from the other objects , and the visual appearance of the modelling residuals . for systems with small separation where the non - analytical residuals at the centre clearly overlap with a large fraction of the galaxy light ( e.g. sdss  j1254 + 2235 and sdss  j1334 + 3315 ) , as well as for objects where , due to the low s / n , no conspicuous core residuals are seen , data modelling stops as described above .",
    "for the other systems , it is possible to model away the faint quasar image and the lensing galaxy using the analytical hostlens profiles , and obtain a clean image a to be used as the `` actual psf '' ( panels a - g in figure [ fig : hybrid ] ) .",
    "the advantage in this approach is that the estimated psf is the `` true '' psf ( accounting for all non - analytical features ) , albeit a noisy one .",
    "next , we tested whether this psf produces better statistical results .",
    "a simple comparison with the analytical fit in terms of @xmath52 can not be used , as image a is fitted perfectly by design .",
    "therefore , we compared the standard deviation of the residual pixel values in a region containing the rest of the objects ( typically b and g ) .",
    "we found that in almost all cases , the analytical psf produced better results .",
    "this is due to large noise in the wing of the `` actual psf '' .",
    "therefore , we used another approach , previously employed by @xcite .",
    "this consists in using the observed brightness distribution of the bright image only in its central regions , and replacing the wings after a certain cut radius with analytical wings from the 2 moffat fit ( panels h - i in figure [ fig : hybrid ] ) .",
    "this `` hybrid psf '' approach succeeded in producing fits at least as good as the analytical psf in terms of the standard deviation of the residuals .",
    "we considered two sources of systematics for the hybrid psf approach .",
    "first , because the contributions from b and g are initially modelled using the analytical psf , they may be improperly subtracted at the location of a , and therefore affect the hybrid psf estimation .",
    "this can be checked by building the hybrid psf in an iterative approach , where in each subsequent step the hybrid psf is used to model away b and g , resulting in a better hybrid psf estimate .",
    "we did this for sdss  j1405 + 0959 and obtained that subsequent psfs are virtually identical .",
    "this is expected , as we applied the hybrid psf technique only to systems with isolated bright images .",
    "secondly , the final models may depend on the size of the hybrid cut region .",
    "we chose the original cut radius as the radius at which all non - analytical components disappear , of @xmath7 pixels .",
    "for all hybrid psf systems ( excluding the ones with a quasar host galaxy detection , as described below , or otherwise specified ) , we included into the error budget the scatter between the results obtained from this cut size , and another one @xmath67 larger .",
    "we used the analytical and/or hybrid psf approaches described above for all systems where a quasar host galaxy was not detected .",
    "table [ tab : morphologytechnique ] shows whether the analytical or the hybrid psf was used to model each system .",
    "a novel undertaking in this paper is the fitting of quasar host galaxies , for several systems , without an a - priori known psf .",
    "this is only possible for gravitationally lensed quasars , because the host galaxies are tangentially stretched around the critical curves by the lensing effect , resulting in arcs that are distinct from the psf shape , and can be modelled analytically ( figure [ fig : simulatedsystem ] ) .    in order to model the spatially extended flux distribution of the lensed images ,",
    "it is necessary to model both the lens mass distribution and the extended source distribution .",
    "this is done using the approach described in @xcite , and makes use of the fact that gravitational lensing conserves surface brightness .",
    "hostlens was designed with the functionality to fit host galaxies modelled with a sersic profile .",
    "when fitting a host galaxy with hostlens , the parameters typically used to model the individual images are replaced by a single source profile .",
    "this profile consists of the parameters of a sersic model , its flux as well as the flux of the central point source , and the lensing parameters : the einstein radius , shear / ellipticity and their orientation angles , where a singular isothermal mass model is assumed ( section [ section : lensmodels ] ) .",
    "the luminous lens galaxy is fitted simultaneously , as before , with a sersic profile .",
    "there are five cases where the quasar host galaxy was clearly detected and fitted .",
    "we define a clear detection as a system for which there are clear visible arcs similar in orientation to the critical curves of the lensing model , and which are convincingly removed by fitting a host galaxy . in the case of two systems with host detections , sdss  j0904 + 1512 and sdss  j1322 + 1052 ,",
    "there were outstanding residuals when using an analytical psf , and therefore we employed a hybrid psf .",
    "this was possible through an iterative process , where an analytical psf is initially used to obtain a first rough approximation of the host profile .",
    "the host galaxy is then subtracted from the original observed frame , and subsequently a hybrid psf is created as described in section [ subsection : hybrid ] .",
    "this hybrid psf is used in the next step of the iteration to refit the original system , and refine the host model .",
    "subsequent steps lead to new hybrid psfs .",
    "the iteration stops once the @xmath52 stops decreasing .    to summarise , the general approach to the morphological modelling of the imaging data in this paper , whether the quasar host galaxy is detected or not , is described in the flowchart of figure [ fig : flowchart ] .",
    "to test the reliability of the morphological fitting with hostlens using the analytical or hybrid psf methods , we performed a series of simulations for each system . in these simulations , we used a separately observed psf star , or a star in the fov that is the most similar in terms of analytical parameters to the psf of the respective system ( prioritising for the core fwhm parameter ) .",
    "table [ tab : morphologytechnique ] shows which star was used as psf template for each system . with hostlens and/or galfit",
    ", we simulated each system using this corresponding psf template , and the best - fit astrometry / morphology / photometry parameters we derived when modelling that particular observed system .",
    "such a simulated system is shown in figure [ fig : simulatedsystem ] . from the final science frame of each",
    "observed ( i.e. real ) system , we identified 100 blank sky cuts , and added them as noise realisations to the simulated system .",
    "we then remodelled each of the 100 simulated noisy systems in the same way as we did the observed system .",
    "the scatter in the resulting 100 values for each fitted parameter , with respect to the known input value , represents an error estimate .",
    "the only exception is for the case when we simulated the system using the best - fit parameters , but remodelled it using sersic index @xmath68 . in that case",
    ", we considered the scatter around the mean fitted value ( table [ tab : lensmorphology ] ) .",
    "we used two time - saving approximations in remodelling the simulated systems .",
    "first , we did not perform a search starting from random values in the parameter space for each individual simulated system , as we did for the original system , but instead we started the fit from the known ( correct ) values .",
    "second , in cases where we used a hybrid psf , we did not create it in each of the 100 simulations from that very same image , but created it from only one of the simulations , and then used it as the hybrid psf to model all simulated frames .",
    "also , for the few cases when a hybrid psf is used to fit a detected host galaxy , we only performed a small number of simulations , as these are time consuming .",
    "these simulations can account for the systematics introduced by the analytical modelling of a non - analytical psf , or the use of hybrid psfs .",
    "the orientation of the detector was typically the same for the science objects and the psf stars , therefore diffraction patterns due to the telescope spider are similar .",
    "the noise cuts from the actual science frames , previously employed by ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , account for how the model parameters would depend on the existence of background objects , too faint to be visible , and are more realistic than artificially - generated noise .    as final errors on astrometry / morphology / photometry",
    ", we used the largest error bars among those resulting from these simulations and all other methods described in the previous subsections .",
    "this is because the methods are not necessarily independent , and one typically dominates the error budget .",
    "this system is reported in @xcite as a two - image lensed quasar at @xmath69 , with an image separation @xmath70 . in the new ao data ,",
    "the inferred image separation is @xmath71 , making this system the smallest - separation lensed quasar in the sqls .",
    "however , the lensing galaxy is undetected in the new observations ( figure [ fig:1128resid ] ) , with the residuals being identical whether a lens galaxy is modelled or not . without visual confirmation of improvement in the residuals ,",
    "the extracted physical parameters of the lens are unreliable , as it is likely that noise is being fitted . considering the very small separation of this system and the fact that there are non - analytical residuals which can not be well fit , we conclude that the faint lensing galaxy , visible in @xcite , can not be reliably resolved from the bright quasar images with the current technique .",
    "the discovery of sdss  j1320 + 1644 and subsequent data analysis based on non - ao data is reported in @xcite .",
    "this is a large - separation quasar pair , likely to be images of a lensed quasar source at @xmath72 , by a lensing galaxy group / cluster at @xmath73 .",
    "however the lensing nature of this object is not secure .",
    "@xcite noted that the most efficient way to test the lensing hypothesis is by performing ao observations sensitive enough to detect the quasar host galaxy , and search for evidence of lensed arcs .",
    "the acquired ao data was affected by cloud coverage , and as such did not reach the intended depth , being in fact shallower than the original non - ao data . even after @xmath74 pixel binning to increase s / n , there are no visible signs of a host galaxy detection ( figure [ fig:1320resid ] ) . both an analytical psf and a psf built on image a were used , leading to clean residuals for image b.    the only new insight brought by the new ao data is on the quasar flux ratio .",
    "this is a / b @xmath75 , and is significantly larger than the values of 1.4 and 1.0 , considered in @xcite .",
    "while this has little impact on their inferred lens models , since the main model constraints were astrometric , it does impact their discussion on the intrinsic flux ratio .",
    "@xcite argued that , since typical changes due to intrinsic variability and microlensing are small in the near - infrared , the flux ratio @xmath76 observed in the spectra at long wavelengths and in the @xmath77bands is representative of the true flux ratio .",
    "an alternative hypothesis was that the flux ratio @xmath78 found at longer infrared wavelengths is more accurate , and the changes due to microlensing at shorter wavelengths occur on time scales longer than the @xmath79 year spanned by the observations available at that time .",
    "the new flux ratio supports this second hypothesis in the sense that larger flux variations do indeed occur on time scales of @xmath80 years , assuming , of course , that the gravitational lens hypothesis is correct for this system ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of an imaging observation campaign conducted with the subaru telescope adaptive optics system ( ircs+ao188 ) on 28 gravitationally lensed quasars and candidates ( 23 doubles , 1 quad , 1 possible triple and 3 candidates ) from the sdss quasar lens search . </S>",
    "<S> we develop a novel modelling technique that fits analytical and hybrid point spread functions ( psfs ) , while simultaneously measuring the relative astrometry , photometry , as well as the lens galaxy morphology . </S>",
    "<S> we account for systematics by simulating the observed systems using separately observed psf stars . </S>",
    "<S> the measured relative astrometry is comparable with that typically achieved with the hubble space telescope , even after marginalizing over the psf uncertainty . </S>",
    "<S> we model for the first time the quasar host galaxies in 5 systems , without a - priory knowledge of the psf , and show that their luminosities follow the known correlation with the mass of the supermassive black hole . for each system </S>",
    "<S> , we obtain mass models far more accurate than those previously published from low - resolution data , and we show that in our sample of lensing galaxies the observed light profile is more elliptical than the mass , for ellipticity @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> we also identify eight doubles for which the sources of external and internal shear are more reliably separated , and should therefore be prioritized in monitoring campaigns aimed at measuring time - delays in order to infer the hubble constant .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    adaptive optics  gravitationally lensed quasars  </S>",
    "<S> quasar host galaxies </S>"
  ]
}