{
  "article_text": [
    "modeling galaxy evolution based on observational data requires a method for linking galaxy populations between different epochs . establishing direct progenitor - descendant links",
    "would allow for reconstruction of the mass , size , star formation rate , color , and morphology evolution ( among other things ) of galaxies directly from observational data .",
    "however , formulating a method that accurately links progenitor and descendant galaxy populations is non - trivial .",
    "incorrectly linking observed galaxy populations between different epochs results in errors in the inferred evolutionary tracks .",
    "this effect has come to be known as `` progenitor bias ''  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and is a well - known effect that needs to be addressed in order to infer the mass  @xcite , size  @xcite , star formation rate  @xcite and morphology evolution  @xcite .",
    "several approximations have been employed to estimate progenitor - descendant linking of galaxy populations in order to minimize or remove progenitor bias .",
    "one method that has been applied is to select rare or distinct galaxy populations which one might reasonably be able to recover at different observational epochs .",
    "such analysis has been applied to examine the redshift - dependent properties of brightest cluster galaxies  ( bcgs ; e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) as well as to populations of massive early - type galaxies  ( etgs ; e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the premise behind this linking metric is that both massive etgs and bcgs observed at high redshift will remain massive etgs and bcgs into the low - redshift universe .",
    "this assumption is generally true .",
    "however , caution must be taken as the fraction of galaxies that are massive and quenched grows with time .",
    "this will drive an increase in the number of massive etgs and bcgs that exist in the local universe compared to the high - redshift universe , and therefore create contamination in the inferred progenitor - descendant galaxy populations .",
    "it has been argued in  @xcite that this effect alone can result in the inferred size evolution of massive etgs  ( but see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for careful analysis that indicates progenitor bias is insufficient to fully explain the observed size evolution ) .",
    "the current uncertainty that surrounds the size evolution of etgs is dominated by a lack of theoretical understanding of how to link high and low redshift galaxy populations .",
    "another approach  which is the focus of this paper  is to assume that progenitor and descendant galaxy populations can be linked based on their cumulative comoving number density  ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this method is appealing because it provides a straightforward way to infer information about galaxy evolution directly from multi - epoch cumulative stellar mass functions .",
    "because no assumptions about galactic characteristics ( e.g. , massive and quenched ) are required , this method has been employed to infer the mass evolution of milky way progenitors  @xcite , the evolution of red / quenched galaxy fractions  @xcite , and the size and morphological evolution of massive galaxies  @xcite .    linking galaxy populations in this fashion",
    "implicitly involves two assumptions : ( i ) that the total number ( density ) of galaxies is conserved and ( ii ) that galaxies maintain their rank order .",
    "if both of these assumptions are true , then the most(least ) massive galaxies at some initial redshift ( e.g. , @xmath4 ) will still be the most(least ) massive galaxies at any other redshift ( e.g. , @xmath2 ) .",
    "the two primary issues with this approach are that galaxies undergo merger events which can reduce their number density , and that individual galaxies may have scattered / stochastic growth histories which can break their rank ordering .",
    "mergers will drive an evolution in the number density of any given galaxy population by simply changing the number density of the total galaxy population with time , even if galaxies remain well rank - ordered .",
    "on the other hand , scattered growth rates will cause a population of galaxies with similar initial stellar mass at some initial redshift ( e.g. , @xmath4 ) to have some potentially wide distribution of masses by the time they evolve to some new observational epoch ( e.g. , @xmath2 ) . to avoid unnecessary biases when applying constant comoving number - density analysis to observational datasets , it is important to understand the extent to which galaxy mergers or variable galaxy growth rates impact number - density matching .",
    "capturing galaxy mass assembly , including both mergers and variable mass growth rates , can be done in detail by employing numerical galaxy formation simulations .",
    "the efficiency of constant comoving number - density selections has been studied using semi - analytic models  @xcite and with abundance matching  @xcite .",
    "@xcite employed the  @xcite semi - analytic models based on the millennium simulation  @xcite to compare tracked mass evolution against assumed mass evolution based on number - density selections .",
    "they found that a constant comoving number - density selection yielded inferred median descendant masses of high - redshift galaxy populations which differed by 40% from the actual descendant masses . by applying a correction to account for the scatter in galaxy growth rates and mergers they were able to reduce",
    "the mass offset error from a number - density selection to 12% .",
    "however , even with such a correction , significant scatter remains among the inferred growth rates .",
    "@xcite used several different semi - analytic models also based on the millennium simulation  @xcite to provide fitting functions that describe the  recovery fraction \" of galaxies with time .",
    "they found that for their lowest number - density bin ( corresponding to the most massive / rare haloes ) a constant number - density selection recovered roughly @xmath5 of available descendants , with the majority of the recovered galaxy population being contamination .",
    "@xcite used an abundance matching based on the bolshoi simulation  @xcite to infer the number - density evolution of galaxies .",
    "they found a median evolution in the number density for all galaxy mass bins , and provided fitting functions for the median evolution .",
    "these fitting functions have been applied in  @xcite , where the mass and star formation rate histories of massive galaxies were inferred using the prescribed number density evolution tracks .",
    "our work builds on these previous theoretical studies by examining the constant comoving number - density selection method using a full volume hydrodynamical simulation .",
    "multi - epoch constant comoving number - density selection method has only recently been examined using hydrodynamical simulations at high redshifts  @xcite , with limited study at @xmath6 . to the extent that both hydrodynamical simulations and semi - analytic methods accurately reproduce the evolution of the galaxy stellar mass function  ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a comparison and discussion ) , it is unlikely that full hydrodynamical simulations would yield very different results compared to their semi - analytic model counterparts .",
    "however , there are some subtle but important issues that we might expect to yield concrete differences between the previous analyses and what we present in this paper .",
    "specifically , the cosmology used in the original millennium simulation  @xcite was based on the wmap-1 data release  @xcite , and therefore applied a @xmath7 value that is higher than what is currently accepted .",
    "this has the consequence of boosting the halo - halo merger rate , which is of direct relevance to galaxy number - density analysis  @xcite .",
    "a direct comparison of the halo - halo merger rates between the millennium simulation and illustris shows that the merger rates are in good agreement despite differences in the adopted cosmological parameters  @xcite .",
    "the galaxy - galaxy merger rates used in semi - analytic models can be significantly offset from the galaxy - galaxy merger rates found in illustris  @xcite which could impose differences on the number density evolution .",
    "however , given that the results presented in  @xcite ( which used updated cosmological parameters ) generally agreed with  @xcite , it is unlikely that updated cosmological parameters alone would drive major differences in the number - density evolution of galaxies .    perhaps more importantly ,",
    "while semi - analytic models and hydrodynamical simulations both attempt to include a similar array of physical processes ( gas cooling , star formation , feedback , etc . ) , in detail the growth rates of galaxies are calculated in very different ways .",
    "it is therefore not guaranteed that the scattered growth rates that can contribute to breaking galaxy rank order will be equally realized in semi - analytic models and hydrodynamical simulations . moreover , while semi - analytic models are able to infer a wide range of internal galactic properties ( e.g. , galaxy size , bulge - to - disk ratio , etc . ) , all of these properties are managed and evolved at a sub - grid level . although the hydrodynamical simulations employed in this paper also apply sub - grid models to manage many aspects of galaxy formation physics ( e.g. , star formation , ism gas phase structure , etc . ) some important galactic characteristics such as stellar velocity dispersion can be self - consistently evolved .",
    "finally , the general analysis presented in this paper complements nicely the detailed studies of specific galaxy populations that form in our simulations and have been compared against observations , such as the formation and evolution of compact massive galaxies  @xcite .",
    "the paper is structured as follows : in section  [ sec : methods ] we discuss our methods including a description of the simulations that have been employed , the construction of galaxy property catalogs , and the merger trees that form the core of our analysis . in section  [ sec : results_cmf ] we present the simulated multi - epoch cumulative stellar mass function and the corresponding inferred stellar mass evolution .",
    "we compare this against the actual tracked stellar mass evolution found in the simulation .",
    "we introduce useful fitting formulae here , which describe the mass and number - density evolution for the explicitly tracked galaxy population . in section  [ sec : results_vdf ] we present the simulated multi - epoch cumulative velocity dispersion function and consider whether velocity dispersion might act as a better galactic parameter for linking galaxy populations . in section  [ sec : discussion ]",
    "we discuss our results , with a focus on understanding the empirical origin of the trends we find in our simulations and exploring implications for using number - density analyses on observational data sets .",
    "we conclude in section  [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "in this paper we use the illustris simulation to study the relationship between the stellar mass , dark matter mass , central stellar velocity dispersion , and number - density evolution of galaxies .",
    "full details of the illustris project can be found in  @xcite .",
    "briefly , the illustris simulation is a cosmological hydrodynamical simulation run in a periodic box of size @xmath8 mpc .",
    "illustris was run using the arepo simulation code  @xcite using a physical setup that includes gravity , hydrodynamics , radiative cooling of gas  @xcite , star formation with associated feedback  @xcite , mass and metal return to the interstellar medium from aging stellar populations  @xcite , and supermassive black hole growth with associated feedback  @xcite .",
    "the feedback models employed in the simulation were chosen to match the redshift @xmath2 galaxy stellar mass function and cosmic star formation rate history , and it has been subsequently shown that it broadly reproduces the observed evolving galaxy stellar mass function out to high redshift  @xcite .",
    "the relatively large volume allows for sampling across a range of galaxy environments  @xcite including rare objects  ( e.g. , compact massive galaxies , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) with diverse formation histories  @xcite , all of which is important for the present work .",
    "the illustris simulation contains roughly @xmath9 baryon and dark matter particles yielding a baryon mass resolution of @xmath10 and a dark matter mass resolution of @xmath11 ( the number of dark matter particles remains exactly fixed at @xmath9 for the whole run , but the number of baryonic resolution elements changes owing to cell ( de)refinement ) . the plummer - equivalent gravitational force softening lengths used in the simulation is @xmath12 ckpc for both dark matter and baryons until @xmath13 , at which time the baryonic gravitational softening length is capped at a maximum physical value of @xmath14 pkpc .",
    "( the dark matter gravitational softening length continues at a fixed comoving size to @xmath2 . )",
    "several steps have been taken to post - process the illustris data output to facilitate the present analysis .",
    "first , the simulation output is run through subfind to identify friends - of - friends ( fof ) haloes and bound sub - haloes  @xcite . throughout this paper ,",
    "we employ the subfind sub - halo catalog to identify galaxy populations , including both centrals and satellites . wherever we refer to galaxies or galaxy populations , we are in detail referring to the self - bound sub - halo structures identified by subfind .",
    "second , a wide range of physical properties  including stellar mass , star formation rate , half - mass radius , etc .",
    " of each structure identified with subfind have been tabulated .",
    "a catalog of galaxy properties is calculated for each galaxy and each redshift independently . throughout this paper",
    "we use stellar masses and dark matter halo masses . in both cases , we calculate the stellar ( dark matter halo ) masses as being the total mass of all gravitationally bound stellar ( dark matter ) particles of a given subfind subhalo . for this paper ,",
    "we have additionally calculated the stellar velocity dispersion for the galaxy population defined as the three dimensional standard deviation of stellar particle velocities calculated within the stellar half - mass radius .",
    "the third post - processing step is to link the galaxy catalogs together in time using merger trees . in this paper",
    "we adopt the sublink merger trees as described in  @xcite .",
    "the merger trees are constructed by identifying progenitor / descendant galaxy pairings based on overlapping particle compositions identified through particle identification numbers .",
    "the merger trees facilitate tracking of individual galaxies forward and backward in time while including in situ growth and contributions from mergers . when galaxy mergers occur , the progenitors are segregated into a single main branch and secondary progenitors .",
    "we define the main progenitor branch as being the most massive branch when summed over the entire formation history until that point  @xcite .",
    "other operational definitions of main progenitor branch are possible  ( e.g. , most massive halo at the previous snapshot , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and some of the results quoted in this paper depend on this assumption .",
    "however , we have verified that this choice has a very limited impact on our results , with all of our results being qualitatively invariant to this choice .",
    "the full data from the illustris simulation  including all data , post - processing subfind galaxy property catalogs , merger trees data , and basic scripts and procedures required to reproduce our analysis  have been made publicly available  @xcite .",
    "perhaps the most relevant aspect of our model for this paper is its ability to reproduce the ( cumulative ) galaxy stellar mass function at many observational epochs .",
    "it has also been shown that the feedback model employed by illustris  described in detail in  @xcite  is capable of producing a galaxy stellar mass function and star formation main sequence that broadly matches observations  @xcite .",
    "this agreement is achieved through a combination of star formation driven winds to moderate star formation in low mass galaxies , and agn feedback to regulate the growth of massive galaxies .",
    "this combination of feedback results in a multi - epoch galaxy stellar mass function that is similar to modern semi - analytic models and other hydrodynamical simulations  ( see * ? ? ? * for comprehensive review plots and discussion ) . here , we present fits to the redshift evolution of the cumulative galaxy stellar mass function as found in our simulations .",
    "this fit is important to the analysis that we carry out in subsequent sections of the paper .",
    "figure  [ fig : cum_number_density ] shows the cumulative mass function ( cmf ) at several redshifts as realized in the illustris simulation .",
    "we fit the simulated cumulative galaxy stellar mass function with a power law plus exponential dependence of the form @xmath15 where @xmath16 .",
    "the combined power - law , exponential form of equation  ( [ eqn : cummassfunc ] ) is adopted to be similar to the  @xcite function commonly used to describe galaxy stellar mass and luminosity functions .",
    "we allow all of the fit variables to vary with redshift according to @xmath17 where @xmath18 is redshift . adopting this fitting form results in 12 independent coefficients ( all variables on the rhs of equations  [ eqn : a]-[eqn : e ] ) that are set using an ordinary least squares regression on the cmfs over the redshift range @xmath2 to @xmath19 , mass range @xmath20 , and number density range @xmath21 .",
    "the resulting fits are shown in figure  [ fig : cum_number_density ] as dashed lines , which can be compared against the solid lines that trace the cmfs taken directly from the simulation . in the inset of figure  [",
    "fig : cum_number_density ] we also show @xmath22 which gives an impression for the level of fit accuracy . using the power law plus exponential fit described above we obtain a fit to the cmf that is valid from @xmath2 to @xmath19 with typical errors of order @xmath23 , which always remain well below @xmath24 .",
    "the best fit coefficients for the cmf in illustris in the redshift range @xmath25 are given in table  [ table : cmf_fit ] .",
    "the appropriate limits on this fitting function cover the mass range @xmath26 , cmf values @xmath27 , and redshift range @xmath25 .",
    "however , one should additionally bear in mind that the baryon particle mass in our simulations is @xmath28 , and so caution should be taken when considering the low - mass end of the mass function where only @xmath29 stellar particles are included in each galaxy .    despite its 12 free terms ,",
    "equation  ( [ eqn : cummassfunc ] ) is trivial to calculate . upon evaluation",
    ", one can easily identify the cumulative number density of galaxies over the full resolved mass range in illustris from @xmath25 .",
    "this is generally useful , including for comparisons with observed cumulative stellar mass functions  which is outside the scope of this paper . which is the more commonly adopted form for examining the galaxy stellar mass function .",
    "] the general form allows us to obtain useful fits to a wide variety of smoothly varying functions making it possible to use expressions that take a similar form to equation  ( [ eqn : cummassfunc ] ) at several points in this paper including the cumulative velocity dispersion function and tracked galaxy number - density evolution .",
    "we are additionally making available with this paper simple python scripts that allow one to evaluate equation  ( [ eqn : cummassfunc ] ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cumulative comoving number - density of galaxies as a function of stellar mass or central velocity dispersion is commonly used to link galaxy populations across different epochs . by assuming that galaxies preserve their number - density in time , </S>",
    "<S> one can infer the evolution of their properties , such as masses , sizes , and morphologies . </S>",
    "<S> however , this assumption does not hold in the presence of galaxy mergers or when rank ordering is broken owing to variable stellar growth rates . </S>",
    "<S> we present an analysis of the evolving comoving number density of galaxy populations found in the illustris cosmological hydrodynamical simulation focused on the redshift range @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> our primary results are as follows : 1 ) the inferred average stellar mass evolution obtained via a constant comoving number density assumption is systematically biased compared to the merger tree results at the factor of @xmath12(4 ) level when tracking galaxies from redshift @xmath2 out to redshift @xmath3 ; 2 ) the median number density evolution for galaxy populations tracked forward in time is shallower than for galaxy populations tracked backward in time ; 3 ) a similar evolution in the median number density of tracked galaxy populations is found regardless of whether number density is assigned via stellar mass , stellar velocity dispersion , or dark matter halo mass ; 4 ) explicit tracking reveals a large diversity in galaxies assembly histories that can not be captured by constant number - density analyses ; 5 ) the significant scatter in galaxy linking methods is only marginally reduced by considering a number of additional physical and observable galaxy properties as realized in our simulation . </S>",
    "<S> we provide fits for the forward and backward median evolution in stellar mass and number density for use with observational data and discuss the implications of our analysis for interpreting multi - epoch galaxy property observations as related to galaxy evolution .    </S>",
    "<S> methods : numerical  cosmology : theory  cosmology : galaxy formation  galaxies : abundances </S>"
  ]
}