{
  "article_text": [
    "in the present chapter we try to address some important open problems that may have strong impact on the transport of cargos in cells . though these problems are general for all cells , they are particularly relevant for axons , which are so long and so crowded that active transport is essential . therefore , our discussion will be oriented towards axonal transport but the reader should keep in mind that most problems that are considered here are also encountered in other cell types .",
    "the axon provides a crowded environment where a large variety of cargos has to be transported .",
    "a cargo is often not transported by a single but by teams of molecular motors .",
    "this is in particular true for large objects .",
    "we have seen in section  [ sec : tug ] that even the transport of a _ single _",
    "cargo by teams of motors is not fully understood yet . once the characteristics of bidirectional cargo transport will be established the next task will be to consider the _ collective effects _ of such cargo - motors complexes .",
    "these have been partially considered in chapter  [ sec : vivo ] , in which a particle can be seen as a coarse grained description for a whole motor - cargo complex",
    ". however , the bidirectional nature of the cargos trajectories and its role in collective motion has to be explored further .",
    "in particular , the tendency to have jamming can depend on the variability of trajectory bias between different cargo types .",
    "the dynamics of cargos can also be considered from a functional point of view .",
    "the cell needs a certain number of proteins to be synthesized , transported at the right place where they will be used , and then recycled or degradated .",
    "miller and heidemann @xcite list a number of open questions related to transport and synthesis of proteins .",
    "in particular , it is not clear yet how very long axons are supplied with proteins .",
    "it is also not known where protein degradation occurs along the axon , if it is relevant at all .",
    "the original picture was that all proteins were synthesized in the soma , and then transported where needed .",
    "but several experiments have indicated that mrna replication also occurs locally along the axon  @xcite .",
    "there are still many open questions about the spatial localization of axonal protein synthesis - e.g. , does it occur in specific axonal compartments ? - and about the triggering of mrna translation  @xcite . the tip of the axon in particular should be a place where the translation of mrna occurs , to comply with the needs of axonal growth .",
    "protein synthesis at the distal end can not be completely autonomous from the cell body , and some retrograde signaling transport is needed , for example to inform the cell body that the axon has been injured  @xcite .",
    "thus protein synthesis and transport are necessarily highly linked , and much more understanding of these coupled phenomena is needed .      the recent discovery that a large number of mt plus - ends are dynamic in axons , even in mature neurons , considerably changed the picture of the axonal mt network , as we already pointed out in the previous chapter .",
    "this finding immediately raises questions about the global dynamics of the axonal mt network .    in axons",
    "this question is not easy to answer , since the minus - ends are not bound to a mtoc as in other mammalian cells .",
    "therefore , it would be very interesting to visualize the spatio - temporal evolution of the mt network in axons .",
    "however , in contrast with cells where the mt network is very sparse and where a simple marking of tubulin allows to track the network structure and dynamics , this is not possible in axons due to the high density of mts . a possible solution to this problem",
    "would be labeling of the plus- and minus - ends rather than the entire mts . until now",
    ", most of the _ in vivo _ experiments concentrate on the growing ends of mts , which can be traced by a number of standard labels .",
    "by contrast , the information about the spatial and temporal distribution of microtubule minus - ends in axons is very sparse .",
    "indeed , it is still an experimental challenge to find how to track the minus - ends or the shrinking plus - ends of mts .",
    "the recent finding of families of proteins that specifically bind to the mt minus - ends opens new perspectives for the marking of minus - ends  @xcite . in the future",
    ", the simultaneous tracing of plus- and minus - ends would allow to get much more insight to the actual distribution of static and dynamic microtubules in axons .",
    "another issue is related to the role of steric interactions in mt network dynamics .",
    "it is known that obstacles can bend mts , or limit their growth by inducing catastrophes . as the axon is very crowded a better knowledge of its inner structure would be necessary to take these steric interactions into account in a model of mt networks dynamics in axons .",
    "the polymerization of mts relies obviously on the supply of tubulin subunits . as growing mt plus - ends",
    "have been observed in every part of the axon , there is a need to provide new material to sustain the mt - structure over the whole lifespan of the axon .",
    "there is , however , an ongoing debate about how and under which form tubulin is transported . in order to illustrate possible mechanisms of tubulin supply we discuss some of the mechanisms that are presently discussed .",
    "as already mentioned in section  [ sec : proteins ] , the historical view is that proteins can only be synthesized in the cell body , and then transported to a location where they are needed .",
    "the length of axons prevents transport to be performed only by diffusive means , and active transport has to be organized  @xcite .",
    "it is possible that short assembled mts are transported to the plus - end of growing mts in the axon .",
    "alternatively only tubulin subunits could be transported and then assembled at their arrival point .",
    "it is unclear whether there is a nucleating structure allowing for free tubulin to assemble into mts directly in the axon .",
    "however , it is known from in vitro experiments that tubulin can spontaneously assemble even in the absence of a nucleating site if the tubulin concentration is high enough  @xcite .",
    "more recently it was found that minus - ends can be stabilized even if not connected to any mt nucleating site , through decoration by a specific protein family ( camsap )  @xcite .",
    "some experiments seem to indicate that mts can be transported as a whole  @xcite . indeed , one knowns from other biological systems that molecular motors are able to displace mts ( e.g. in the mitotic spindle ) .",
    "the mechanism is the following : motors produce some relative motion between the cargo they carry and the mt they are stepping on . if the mt is strongly anchored , the cargo will move . however , if the cargo is fixed , for example if the cargo domain of the motor is attached to the actin cytomatrix of the axon , then it is the mt that could move  @xcite .",
    "under such a scenario , cytoplasmic dynein could move the mts either anterogradely or retrogradely depending whether its cargo domain is attached to the actin cytomatrix or to other mts , though anterograde motion should dominate .",
    "indeed , experiments have confirmed the crucial role of cytoplasmic dynein in mt movement  @xcite .",
    "the so - called _ cut - and - run _ model has been conceived by baas _",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite to explain the maintenance of the stationary state of the axonal mt network : mts nucleate and polymerize at the centrosome in the soma and are then cut by a mt - breaking protein such as katanin .",
    "katanin has indeed been shown to be located in higher concentrations near the centrosome  @xcite .",
    "short mt pieces are then transported through the axon with their plus - end pointing in distal direction  @xcite .",
    "the motility is achieved through molecular motors , which are anchored on actin filaments or longer mts and exert forces on the transported mt by walking on it .",
    "it has in fact been shown that dynein and the actin cortex are responsible for half of the anterograde mt transport in axons while the rest depends on kinesin  @xcite .",
    "one thus finds two populations of mts in the axon : short and mobile mts which are transported and perform bidirectional motion and long and immobile mts which serve as structures along which the short mts can be transported .",
    "the long mts are imagined to be immobile because of a large number of crosslinks to other axonal structures such as the neighboring mts via tau  @xcite , though actually they are still active at their plus - end and might depolymerize at any moment .",
    "experiments are contradictory whether the short mts undergo dynamic instability during transport  @xcite or whether they are stable  @xcite .",
    "furthermore , it is an open question if and how tubulin is transported retrogradely .",
    "such motion has not been observed yet , but might be needed to balance the constant influx of tubulin in form of anterogradely transported mts .",
    "alternatively , tubulin might degrade at the synapse or be released to the extracellular space from there  @xcite .",
    "the conclusion of this section is that we are still lacking some global image of the living cycle of mts in the axon , although it is confirmed that the plus - ends of axonal mts are dynamic  @xcite . a more conclusive picture of the axonal mt - network",
    "would greatly improve the understanding of motor - driven transport in axons and support the further development of transport models .",
    "we have seen in chapter  [ sec : vivo ] how the mt dynamics could play a role in motor transport .",
    "reciprocally , motors can influence mt dynamics .",
    "some other kinesins than kinesin-1 have been shown to be less implicated in intracellular transport but to have an influence on the mt dynamics .",
    "for example , members of the kinesin-8 and kinesin-13 family are able to find the plus - end of mts ( and are therefore considered as + tips  @xcite ) where they destabilize mts and promote depolymerization by using the energy from atp hydrolysis to deform the mt lattice until it breaks  @xcite .",
    "exclusion processes have been used to model the collective behavior of such depolymerases  @xcite .",
    "the model predicts some collective effects through the jamming of polymerases , that would affect the depolymerization speed .",
    "other exclusion process based models have demonstrated how the activity of plus - end tracking molecular motors acting as depolymerases can regulate the length of filaments , which becomes then less sensitive to variations of the surrounding medium .",
    "these length regulation mechanisms were found both for treadmilling filaments  @xcite , or for filaments attached to an mtoc  @xcite .",
    "molecular motors can also have a stabilizing effect .",
    "for example , cortical dynein can bind to mt plus - ends and stabilize them , with a length regulation effect , as was confirmed by several _ in vitro _",
    "experiments  @xcite .",
    "if mt network dynamics plays a crucial role in transport as proposed in chapter  [ sec : vivo ] , the features presented in this subsection provide a feedback loop on mt dynamics .",
    "the transport of tubulin by motors - needed for mt polymerisation - is another one .",
    "the mts that we have considered until now were ideal ones , without any defect or any variation in their surface structure .",
    "this is not the case _ in vivo _ , where enzymes can modify tubulins units  @xcite , or where maps can associate to the mt .",
    "the cell could possibly use inhomogeneities or mt decoration factors to control the motor transport properties .",
    "all these aspects should be integrated for a full description of the interplay between transport and tracks . in this section",
    "we shall discuss more thoroughly a specific type of protein that binds on the mts , namely tau proteins .",
    "a similar role is played in dendrites by map2 proteins  @xcite .",
    "the structure of both tau and map2 proteins has a mt binding domain and a hydrophobic part which extends into the surrounding cytosol  @xcite .",
    "the mt binding domain is able to bind at the outside of the mt cylinder as well as across protofilaments  @xcite .",
    "the interactions between the hydrophobic parts of maps induce constraints on the structure of mts ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : neuron_section ] ) .",
    "it is still debated whether these maps are `` crosslinkers or spacers of microtubules '' @xcite . on the one hand ,",
    "the hydrophobic parts of bound tau molecules are able to dimerize and to induce bundling of mts  @xcite .",
    "cross - links have been observed both _ in vitro _",
    "@xcite and _ in vivo _ @xcite . on the other hand steric constraints between mt - maps",
    "are responsible for repulsive forces between mts @xcite .",
    "the hydrophobic part is very flexible and can be described in terms of a polymer brush model @xcite .",
    "the interdistance between mts in the axon is directly related to the effective length of tau proteins @xcite .",
    "phosphorylation plays a key role to regulate the various functions of tau or map2 proteins .",
    "for example , highly phosphorylated tau or map2 proteins are more rigid .",
    "then , as a consequence of higher repulsive forces , the interdistance between mts is increased both in axons and dendrites @xcite , a feature which can even result in dendritic branching @xcite .",
    "it is also known that phosphorylation of tau may reduce its affinity to mts  @xcite .    since kinesins and tau proteins both bind on the outside of the mt cylinder , it is not unlikely that both proteins interfere with each other .",
    "in fact , it has been shown _ in vitro _ that kinesin s attachment to the mt is hindered by tau , whereas kinesin is not affected in its motion along the filament once it is bound , i.e. , processivity and walking speeds are unaffected  @xcite . on the other hand , another study found that kinesin had a higher probability of detachment when encountering tau patches on the mt  @xcite .    as a consequence of the fact that tau proteins may prevent locally kinesins to bind ,",
    "tau proteins have been also shown to favor switches of cargos from one microtubule to another one @xcite , a feature which may be helpful in crowded environments .",
    "the interaction of dyneins with tau proteins are similar to those reported for kinesin : run lengths are decreased at high concentrations of tau on the mt  @xcite .",
    "in contrast to kinesin , dynein does not detach at encounters of tau but tends to reverse direction , maybe by switching to the diffusive state of motion described above  @xcite . altogether",
    ", dynein is much less affected by the presence of tau than kinesin and is only seriously impeded in its motion at overexpression of tau  @xcite .",
    "tau furthermore has a stabilizing effect on mts by modifying parameters of the dynamic instability of mts  @xcite . in the presence of tau",
    ", the speed of polymerization is increased while that of depolymerization is decreased . also , the frequency of catastrophes is lowered and",
    "the frequency of rescues is increased . _ in vitro _ grown mts thus reach much higher maximum lengths as a consequence of the action of tau .",
    "still , in normal axons , the mt network is highly dynamic and it is only in some pathologies that the tau concentration becomes high enough to prevent network dynamics .",
    "mts in axons have been found to be particularly densely decorated by tau proteins at regions of high curvature , suggesting an influence of the mechanical properties  @xcite .",
    "it was also hypothesized that tau has a protective function for mts against the action of the mt - severing protein katanin  @xcite .      until now",
    ", we have not considered that , actually , structural defects of the mt network appear spontaneously in normal axons .",
    "though a large majority of mts are oriented with their plus - end pointing anterogradely , it seems that @xmath1 to @xmath2 % of the mts have their plus - end pointing retrogradely  @xcite .",
    "besides , the whole structure inside the axon includes not only mts but also neurofilaments and actin filaments .",
    "it is not clear whether a minority of filaments oriented differently could not have a strong effect on the overall transport properties , for example by allowing blocked vesicles to go backwards to try another path forward .",
    "structural defects and axonal transport failure also appear in many neurodegenerative diseases ( see  @xcite for a review ) .",
    "the most prominent example in this respect is alzheimer s disease  @xcite .",
    "axonal swellings caused by accumulations of maps , molecular motors , organelles and vesicles have been found in early stages of alzheimer s disease , suggesting failure of axonal transport to be linked to the progress of the disease  @xcite . in particular , tau accumulations in neurofibrillary tangles",
    "is a hallmark pathology of alzheimer s disease so that overexpression of tau is hypothesized to be implicated in the failure of axonal transport .    as mentioned in the previous section ,",
    "one of the effects of tau proteins is to lower the attachment rate of kinesins .",
    "we have discussed in section  [ sec : disorder ] that binding defects can affect collective motion of particles only if present at almost all sites .",
    "this remark may brings a first clue to explain why moderate tau concentrations are not deleterious while tau overexpression is .",
    "indeed , since tau has important stabilizing functions for mts , it has to be present in normal axons and thus it is desirable that its action as binding defect for kinesins does not affect the overall transport properties if tau is not expressed at extreme concentrations .",
    "a model of the cascade leading from tau overexpression to neuronal degeneration has been proposed by baas and qiang  @xcite , based on some experimental results by mandelkow _",
    "et al . _",
    "as already mentioned , mt - bound tau interferes with the attachment of both motor families , kinesin and dynein , but the effect is more pronounced for kinesin  @xcite . at normal tau concentrations , this may allow tau to regulate the directionality of axonal transport  @xcite . in the case of abnormal tau overexpression",
    ", this proposed regulation fails and anterograde transport is almost completely suppressed .",
    "baas and qiang  @xcite , following mandelkow _",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite , propose that the neuron reacts to this blocking of the anterograde transport by hyperphosphorylation of tau which causes it to dissociate from the mt filament and thus clears a path for kinesin - driven transport .",
    "the hyperphosphorylated tau eventually forms the abnormal filaments mentioned above as a hallmark of alzheimer s disease .",
    "additionally to restoring the axonal transport , the loss of tau on the mt makes it more susceptible to severing by katanin causing a disruption of the mt network and neuronal degeneration .    in line with this model ,",
    "a massive reorientation of the mt network was identified under overexpression of tau in _ aplysia _",
    "neurons  @xcite .",
    "the reorientation might be caused by the elongation of shorter mts which have been cut by katanin and are brought out of the parallel orientation by steric interaction or molecular motors which pull on the mt fragments . as a consequence of the mt network reorientation ,",
    "axonal transport is impaired in both directions as swirls in the mt network act as attractive regions for molecular motors so that accumulations of axonal cargos occur as is observed in alzheimer s disease .",
    "the fact that it is possible to reproduce in experiments some swellings similar to those of taupathies , either by using drugs  @xcite or mutations  @xcite that impair mt dynamics and vesicular transport , should allow learn more not only for the understanding of neuronal diseases , but more generally of the regulation of intracellular transport .",
    "the knowledge of how an axon regenerates itself when transected brings also some information about how the mt network organizes itself . in  @xcite ,",
    "an experiment shows the transformation of a transected axonal tip .",
    "the experiment allows to visualize the supply in vesicles - a crucial ingredient for the regeneration of the neuron - and the orientation of newly growing mts .",
    "the self - organization of a vesicle trap has been modeled in  @xcite , where the active transport of particles on a filament networks under confinement has been considered .",
    "it has been shown that , by applying confining boundary conditions , a self - organization of the network towards a polarized structure is induced , similar to the experimental one , even without explicit regulation and interactions .      to conclude this review",
    ", we would like to give a picture of the current interplay between modeling approaches and experiments .",
    "the aim is to understand transport in real cells , but intermediate steps are needed for that . fig .",
    "[ fig : scheme_conclusion ] summarizes various types of approaches to tackle this problem .",
    "[ fig : scheme_conclusion ]    _ in vitro _ assays are useful to fully characterize the elementary units of transport , for example motors and mts . compared to _ in vivo _",
    "experiments , they allow for a better control .",
    "one may argue that _ in vivo _",
    ", systems are much more complex and can not be reduced to a sum of elementary units . still , _ in vitro _",
    "experiments are ideal to test the predictive power of models : building blocks are controlled , and the resulting behavior can be compared between experiments and model simulations .    while motility assays have allowed to fully characterize purified kinesin since a long time , similar results should soon be available for dynein , as it has been recently discovered how to activate _ in vitro _ purified mammalian dynein  @xcite .",
    "this also opens the way for building simple cargo - motor complexes  @xcite on which tug - of - war models predictions could be tested .",
    "one may argue that _ in vivo _ , motors are not isolated but supplemented by many factors which may change their behavior . in order to include these factors",
    ", one may not start from purified motors , but directly work with the whole complexes obtained from cell extracts , as done for example in  @xcite or  @xcite in _ semi in vitro _ experiments .",
    "of course the final aim is to understand _ in vivo _ transport inside cells . though some measurements can be performed directly in the cell",
    ", the interpretation of such measurements is in general difficult as one can not fully control the setting .",
    "here we would like to suggest two directions where progress could be made .",
    "the first one concerns measurements of cargo trajectories .",
    "these trajectories are often cut into runs and pauses . a lot of information is then lost which is of particular relevance for the competition of motors in case of bidirectionally transported cargo .",
    "besides , the definition of runs and pauses requires some threshold - based sorting that may introduce some sensitivity of the results to unwanted features .",
    "another frequent bias of data analysis is to extract extreme events which in fact are rare and not representative .",
    "systematic unbiased statistical study as the one performed for melanosome velocity in  @xcite would be highly valuable .",
    "another promising direction of research is to link transport and functions in a more thorough way .",
    "logistics impose some constraints on transport and signaling .",
    "some cell regions may be specialized , e.g. , through specific decoration of mts having an impact on transport properties . more generally , even if models lack firm ground _ in vivo _",
    ", they may still help to orient experimental measurements by providing relevant questions .    another interesting perspective for the understanding of _ in vivo _",
    "systems is to modify them . a classical way to do",
    "it is _ via _ genetic manipulation , that allows either to test a mechanism by modifying one of the actors involved , or to produce cell lines mimicking for example the phenomenology of a given disease .",
    "genetics can also provide living systems with simpler characteristics , as for example the mutant filamentous fungus _",
    "ustilago maydis _ studied by g.",
    "steinberg s group  @xcite , which has a much simpler and sparse cytoskeleton than most cells , and besides is quasi one - dimensional ( a feature helpful for the modeling task ) .",
    "new types of engineered cells can now be obtained as well .",
    "l. kapitein et al  @xcite managed to control the attachment of motors to some cargo ( peroxisome ) , by inserting some molecular switch between the motor and the cargo .",
    "then a simple light exposure can induce attachment of given motors to the cargo . focusing light on a precise region",
    "allows to perform this attachment only locally .",
    "cargos can thus be displaced ( using kinesin or dynein ) or anchored ( using myosin v ) at will in specific regions .",
    "this opens the possibility to test _ in vivo _ various hypothesis , concerning transport itself or its relation with various functions .",
    "coming back to _ in vitro _",
    "systems , we finish our `` tour '' of the sketch of fig  [ fig : scheme_conclusion ] by noting that , aside the classical motility assays , it is now possible to build artificial cells , i.e. systems obtained from purified units that are combined to build a specific machinery . in m. dogterom s group for example , some _ in vitro _",
    "experiments have been realized , to study how dyneins attached to an artificial cortex can capture mt plus - ends , stabilize them , and mediate forces  @xcite .",
    "numerous experimental results of all the types described above are expected to come out in the coming years , generating a need for further modeling , and we hope this review will trigger more interest for these systems .",
    "the application of stochastic transport models to intracellular transport driven by molecular motors stimulated a new and very active branch of research .",
    "compared to typical applications of stochastic transport models , as for example vehicular traffic , several fundamental differences exist : the motion of motor proteins is stepwise such that lattice models are not an approximation but a natural description of the system . moreover , the number of particles is not conserved - a particle property which is influencing the macroscopic behavior of the system .",
    "while stochastic transport models are often defined on a one - dimensional lattice , intracellular transport requires a better understanding of transport on several parallel lanes and on a whole variety of networks . finally , the networks which carry the active particles themselves are dynamic , a feature that modifies the transport properties .",
    "conversely , the network dynamics and structure can be influenced by the activity of molecular motors .",
    "there is growing evidence that the interplay between the cytoskeletal structure and transport is crucial . implementing into theoretical models the aforementioned characteristics of intracellular transport systems",
    "has shown their large impact on the transport capacity and particle distribution .",
    "however , there is still a need to understand the mechanisms by which this occurs .    indeed , despite the progress already made",
    ", the theoretical understanding of intracellular transport is only in its infancy and still several open problems of fundamental interest exist .",
    "gaining insight in those would help to address questions of strong social impact .",
    "the most prominent one is perhaps the relation between perturbation of axonal transport and many neurodegenerative diseases ( see  @xcite for a review ) .",
    "perturbation of axonal transport may be induced by altering the structure of the mt network or the cargo dynamics .",
    "for example , mutations of the protein huntingtin , which influences the directionality of vesicles transport in neurons  @xcite , may cause huntington s disease  @xcite .",
    "similarly , transport defects have also been related to alzheimer s disease  @xcite .    in order to fully establish the mechanisms",
    "that are responsible for neuropathology observations it is necessary to gain a better understanding of unperturbed axonal transport or , to phrase it in a more focused way , of bidirectional motor - driven transport under strong confinement .",
    "we expect that the understanding of intracellular transport processes will dramatically increase by recent progress on the experimental characterization of single motor properties .",
    "it is now possible to design rather complex transport systems in vitro in a very controlled way .",
    "the results of these experiment can be used to parametrize and validate theoretical models of intracellular transport .    from our point of view",
    "the interplay between lattice dynamics and transport is a key issue for biological applications of stochastic transport .",
    "future contributions to this subject may have also strong impact beyond biological applications and involve systems as different as internet or electric networks  @xcite .",
    "we would like to thank our collegues that have contributed to our better knowledge of the field - we thank in particular philip greulich , sarah klein - and those who have accepted to spend their time to read the manuscript and help us with their valuable advises - in particular ksenia astanina , rosemary harris and gunther schtz .",
    "we also thank daniel bahr for his help , in particular for some of the figures .",
    "this work was supported by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) within the collaborative research center sfb 1027 and the research training group grk 1276 .",
    "378 natexlab#1#1url # 1`#1`urlprefix                                          arpag , g. , shastry , s. , hancock , w. , tzel , e. , 2014 .",
    "transport by populations of fast and slow kinesins uncovers novel family - dependent motor characteristics important for in vivo function .",
    "biophysical j. 107 , 18961904 .",
    "baas , p.  w. , deitch , j.  s. , black , m.  m. , banker , g.  a. , 1988 . polarity orientation of microtubules in hippocampal neurons : uniformity in the axon and nununiformity in the dendrite .",
    "85 , 8335 .",
    "bernhardt , r. , matus , a. , 1984 .",
    "light and electron microscopic studies of the distribution of microtubule - associated protein 2 in rat brain : a difference between dendritic and axonal cytoskeletons .",
    "226 , 203 .",
    "bieling , p. , kandels - lewis , s. , telley , i.  a. , van dijk , j. , janke , c. , surrey , t. , 2008 .",
    "clip-170 tracks growing microtubule ends by dynamically recognizing composite eb1/tubulin - binding sites .",
    "j. cell biol .",
    "183 , 1223 .",
    "bieling , p. , laan , l. , schek , h. , munteanu , l.  e. , sandblad , l. , dogterom , m. , brunner , d. , surrey , t. , 2007 .",
    "reconstitution of a microtubule plus - end tracking system in vitro .",
    "nature 450  ( 7172 ) , 1100 .",
    "brangwynne , c.  p. , mackintosh , f.  c. , kumar , s. , geisse , n.  a. , talbot , j. , mahadevan , l. , parker , k.  k. , ingber , d.  e. , weitz , d.  a. , 2006 .",
    "microtubules can bear enhanced compressive loads in living cells because of lateral reinforcement .",
    "journal of cell .",
    "173 , 733 .",
    "brankov , j. , papoyan , v. , poghosyan , v. , priezzhev , v. , 2006 . the totally asymmetric exclusion process on a ring : exact relaxation dynamics and associated model of clustering transition .",
    "physica a - statistical mechanics and its applications 368 , 471480 .",
    "brown , a. , li , y. , slaughter , t. , black , m.  m. , 1993 .",
    "composite microtubules of the axon : quantitative analysis of tyrosinated and acetylated tubulin along individual axonal microtubules .",
    "j. cell sci .",
    "104 , 339 .",
    "cash , a.  d. , aliev , g. , siedlak , s.  l. , nunomura , a. , fujioka , h. , zhu , x. , raina , a.  k. , vinters , h.  v. , tabaton , m. , johnson , a.  b. , paula - barbosa , m. , avla , j. , jones , p.  k. , castellani , r.  j. , smith , m.  a. , perry , g. , 2003 .",
    "microtubule reduction in alzheimer s disease and aging is independent of tau filament formation . am .",
    "162 , 1623 .",
    "colin , e. , zala , d. , liot , g. , rangone , h. , borrell - pags , m. , li , x .-",
    "j . , saudou , f. , humbert , s. , 2008 .",
    "huntingtin phosphorylation acts as a molecular switch for anterograde / retrograde transport in neurons .",
    "the embo journal 27 , 21242134 .",
    "dimitrov , a. , quesnoit , m. , moutel , s. , cantaloube , i. , pous , c. , perez , f. , 2008 .",
    "detection of gtp - tubulin conformation in vivo reveals a role for gtp remnants in microtubule rescues .",
    "science 322 , 13531356 .",
    "dragestein , k.  a. , van cappellen , w.  a. , van haren , j. , tsibidis , g.  d. , akhmanova , a. , knoch , t.  a. , grosveld , f. , galjart , n. , 2008 .",
    "dynamic behavior of gfp - clip-170 reveals fast protein turnover on microtubule plus ends .",
    "j. cell biol .",
    "180 , 729 .",
    "erez , h. , malkinson , g. , prager - khoutorsky , m. , zeeuw , c. i.  d. , hoogenraad , c.  c. , spira , m.  e. , 2007 .",
    "formation of microtubule - based traps controls the sorting and concentration of vesicles to restricted sites of regenerating neurons after axotomy .",
    "j. cell biol .",
    "176 , 497507 .",
    "gardner , m. , zanic , m. , gell , c. , bormuth , v. , howard , j. , 2011 . depolymerizing kinesins kip3 and mcak shape cellular microtubule architecture by differential control of catastrophe .",
    "cell 147 , 1092103 .",
    "gregoretti , i. , margolin , g. , alber , m. , goodson , h. , 2006 .",
    "insights into cytoskeletal behavior from computational modeling of dynamic microtubules in a cell - like environment .",
    "j. cell sci .",
    "119 , 47814788 .",
    "grishchuk , e. , 2014 .",
    "multiple reversible molecular events at the microtubule tip drive the age - dependent microtubule catastrophes . in : communication at the embo conference `` microtubules : structure , regulation and functions '' .",
    "p. n. 26 .",
    "jamison , d. , driver , j. , rogers , a. , constantinou , p. , diehl , m. , 2010 .",
    "two kinesins transport cargo primarily via the action of one motor : implications for intracellular transport .",
    "biophysical journal 99 , 29672977 .",
    "jiang , k. , hua , s. , mohan , r. , grigoriev , i. , yau , k. , liu , q. , katrukha , e. , , altelaar , a. , heck , a. , hoogenraad , c. , akhmanova , a. , 2014 .",
    "microtubule minus - end stabilization by polymerization - driven camsap deposition .",
    "developmental cell 28 , 295309 .",
    "kapitein , l. , schlager , m. , van  der zwan , w. , wulf , p. , keijzer , n. , hoogenraad , c. , 2010 .",
    "probing intracellular motor protein activity using an inducible cargo trafficking assay .",
    "j. 6 , 21432152 .",
    "kapitein , l. , van bergeijk , p. , lipka , j. , keijzer , n. , wulf , p. , katrukha , y. , akhmanova , a. , hoogenraad , c. , 2013 .",
    "myosin - v opposes microtuble - based cargo transport and drives directional motility on cortical actin .",
    "current biology 23 , 828834 .",
    "koenderink , g.  h. , dogic , z. , nakamura , f. , bendix , p.  m. , mackintosh , f.  c. , hartwig , j.  h. , stossel , t.  p. , weitz , d.  a. , 2009 . an active biopolymer network controlled by molecular motors .",
    "pnas 106 , 1519215197 .",
    "komarova , y.  a. , vorobjev , i.  a. , borisy , g.  g. , 2002 .",
    "life cycle of mts : persistent growth in the cell interior , asymmetric transition frequencies and effects of the cell boundary .",
    "journal of cell science 115 , 35273539 .",
    "kunwar , a. , tripathy , s.  k. , xu , j. , mattson , m.  k. , anand , p. , sigua , r. , vershinin , m. , mckenney , r.  j. , yu , c.  c. , mogilner , a. , gross , s.  p. , 2011 .",
    "mechanical stochastic tug - of - war models can not explain bidirectional lipid - droplet transport .",
    "pnas 108 , 1896018965 .",
    "laan , l. , pavin , n. , husson , j. , romet - lemonne , g. , van duin , m. , lopez , m. , vale , r. , julicher , f. , reck - peterson , s. , dogterom , m. , 2012 .",
    "`` cortical '' dynein controls microtubule dynamics and length , generating pulling forces that reliably position microtubule asters .",
    "cell 148 , 502514 .",
    "leidel , c. , longoria , r.  a. , gutierrez , f.  m. , shubeita , g.  t. , 2012 . measuring molecular motor forces in vivo : implications for tug - of - war models of bidirectional transport .",
    "biophysical journal 103 , 492500 .",
    "lewis , s.  a. , ivanov , i.  e. , lee , g .- h . ,",
    "cowan , n.  j. , 1989 .",
    "organization of microtubules in dendrites and axons is determined by a short hydrophobic zipper in microtubule - associated proteins map2 and tau .",
    "nature 342 , 498505 .",
    "luby - phelps , k. , 1999 .",
    "cytoarchitecture and physical properties of cytoplasm : volume , viscosity .",
    "diffusion , intracellular surface area .",
    "international review of cytology - a survey of cell biology 192 , 189221 .",
    "morfini , g. , burns , m. , stenoien , d. , brady , s. , 2012 .",
    "part i , chapter 8 : axonal transport . in : brady , s.  t. , siegel , g.  j. , albers , r.  w. , price , d.  l. ( eds . ) , basic neurochemistry ( eighth edition ) .",
    "elsevier inc . , pp .",
    "146164 .",
    "nishinari , k. , kanayama , y. , okada , y. , greulich , p. , schadschneider , a. , chowdhury , d. , 2007 .",
    "stochastic modelling and experiments on intra - cellular transport of single - headed molecular motors . in : schadschneider ,",
    "a. , poschel , t. , kuhne , r. , schreckenberg , m. , wolf , d. ( eds . ) , traffic and granular flow 05 .",
    "springer - verlag berlin , pp .",
    "263268 .",
    "pilling , a. , horiuchi , d. , lively , c. , saxton , w. , 2006 .",
    "kinesin-1 and dynein are the primary motors for fast transport of mitochondria in drosophila motor axons .",
    "molecular biology of the cell 17 , 20572068 .",
    "qiu , w. , derr , n. , goodman , b. , villa , e. , wu , d. , shih , w. , reck - peterson , s. , 2012 .",
    "dynein achieves processive motion using both stochastic and coordinated stepping .",
    "nature structural & molecular biology 19 , 193200 .",
    "reichenbach , t. , franosch , t. , frey , e. , 2008 .",
    "domain wall delocalization , dynamics and fluctuations in an exclusion process with two internal states .",
    "the european physical journal e : soft matter and biological physics 27 , 4756 .",
    "robert , d. , nguyen , t .- h .",
    ", gallet , f. , wilhelm , c. , 2010 . in vivo determination of fluctuating forces during endosome trafficking using a combination of active and passive microrheology .",
    "plos one 5 , e10046 .",
    "roos , w. , camps , o. , montel , f. , woehlke , g. , spatz , j. , bassereau , p. , cappello , g. , 2008 .",
    "dynamic kinesin-1 clustering on microtubules due to mutually attractive interactions .",
    "biol . 5 , 046004 .",
    "rosenberg , k.  j. , ross , j.  l. , feinstein , h.  e. , feinstein , s.  c. , israelachvili , j. , 2008 .",
    "complementary dimerization of microtubule - associated tau protein : implications for microtubule bundling and tau - mediated pathogenesis .",
    "105 , 7445 .",
    "rzadzinska , a. , schneider , m. , davies , c. , riordan , g. , kachar , b. , 2004 . an actin molecular treadmill and myosins maintain stereocilia functional architecture and self - renewal .",
    "j. cell biol .",
    "164 , 887897 .",
    "schuster , m. , kilaru , s. , fink , g. , collemare , j. , roger , y. , steinberg , g. , 2011 .",
    "kinesin-3 and dynein cooperate in long - range retrograde endosome motility along a nonuniform microtubule array .",
    "molecular biology of the cell 22 , 36453657 .",
    "shemesh , o. , spira , m. , 2010 .",
    "paclitaxel induces axonal microtubules polar reconfiguration and impaired organelle transport : implications for the pathogenesis of paclitaxel - induced polyneuropathy .",
    "acta neuropathologica 119 , 235248 .",
    "shubeita , g. , tran , s. , xu , j. , vershinin , m. , cermelli , s. , cotton , s. , welte , m. , gross , s. , 2008 .",
    "consequences of motor copy number on the intracellular transport of kinesin-1-driven lipid droplets .",
    "cell 135 , 10981107 .",
    "si , k. , giustetto , m. , etkin , a. , hsu , r. , janisiewicz , a. , miniaci , m.  c. , kim , j .- h . ,",
    "zhu , h. , kandel , e. , 2003 . a neuronal isoform of cpeb regulates local protein synthesis and stabilizes synapse - specific long - term facilitation in aplysia .",
    "cell 115 , 893904 .",
    "soppina , v. , rai , a.  k. , ramaiya , a.  j. , barak , p. , mallik , r. , 2009 .",
    "tug - of - war between dissimilar teams of microtubule motors regulates transport and fission of endosomes .",
    "proc natl acad sci u s a. 106 , 1938119386 .",
    "stepanova , t. , slemmer , j. , hoogenraad , c.  c. , lansbergen , g. , dortland , b. , zeeuw , c. i.  d. , van cappellen , f. g.  g. , akhmanova , a. , galjart , n. , 2003 .",
    "visualization of microtubule growth in cultured neurons via the use of eb3-gfp ( end - binding protein 3-green fluorescent protein ) .",
    "the journal of neuroscience 23 , 2655 .",
    "stiess , m. , maghelli , n. , kapitein , l.  c. , gomis - rth , s. , wilsch - bruninger , m. , hoogenraad , c.  c. , toli - norrelykke , i.  m. , bradke , f. , 2010 .",
    "axon extension occurs independently of centrosomal microtubule nucleation .",
    "science 327 , 704 .",
    "stokin , g.  b. , lillo , c. , falzone , t.  l. , brusch , r.  g. , rockenstein , e. , mount , s.  l. , raman , r. , davies , p. , masliah , e. , williams , d.  s. , goldstein , l. s.  b. , 2005 .",
    "axonopathy and transport deficits early in the pathogenesis of alzheimer s disease .",
    "science 307 , 1282 .",
    "trinczek , b. , ebneth , a. , mandelkow , e .-",
    "m . , mandelkow , e. , 1999 .",
    "tau regulates the attachment / detachment but not the speed of motors in microtubule - dependent transport of single vesicles and organelles .",
    "j. cell sci .",
    "112 , 2355 .",
    "vilfan , a. , frey , e. , schwabl , f. , thormhlen , m. , song , y .- h . , mandelkow , e. , 2001 .",
    "dynamics and cooperativity of microtubule decoration by the motor protein kinesin .",
    "journal of molecular biology 312 , 10111026 .",
    "wacker , i. , kaether , c. , kromer , a. , migala , a. , almers , w. , gerdes , h. , 1997 .",
    "microtubule - dependent transport of secretory vesicles visualized in real time with a gfp - tagged secretory protein .",
    "j. cell sci .",
    "110 , 14531463 .",
    "walker , r.  a. , obrien , e.  t. , pryer , n.  k. , soboeiro , m.  f. , voter , w.  a. , erickson , h.  p. , salmon , e.  d. , 1988 .",
    "dynamic instability of individual microtubules analyzed by video light microscopy : rate constants and transition frequencies .",
    "j. cell biol .",
    "107 , 1437 .",
    "wang , g. , sevick , e. , mittag , e. , searles , d. , evans , d. , 2002 .",
    "experimental demonstration of violations of the second law of thermodynamics for small systems and short time scales .",
    "89 , 050601 .",
    "watanabe , t. , thayil , a. , jesacher , a. , grieve , k. , debarre , d. , wilson , t. , booth , m. , srinivas , s. , 2010 .",
    "characterisation of the dynamic behaviour of lipid droplets in the early mouse embryo using adaptive harmonic generation microscopy .",
    "bmc cell biology 11 , 38 .",
    "waterman - storer , c. , salmon , e. , 1997 .",
    "actomyosin - based retrograde flow of microtubules in the lamella of migrating epithelial cells influences microtubule dynamic instability and turnover and is associated with microtubule breakage and treadmilling .",
    "139 , 417434 .",
    "wlki , m. , schadschneider , a. , schreckenberg , m. , 2007 .",
    "asymmetric exclusion processes with non - factorizing steady states . in : schadschneider ,",
    "a. , poschel , t. , kuhne , r. , schreckenberg , m. , wolf , d. ( eds . ) , traffic and granular flow  05 .",
    "473479 .",
    "zala , d. , hinckelmann , m .- v .",
    ", yu , h. , da  cunha , m. m.  l. , liot , g. , cordelires , f. , marco , s. , saudou , f. , 2013 .",
    "vesicular glycolysis provides on - board energy for fast axonal transport .",
    "cell 152 , 479491 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cells are the elementary units of living organisms , which are able to carry out many vital functions . </S>",
    "<S> these functions rely on active processes on a microscopic scale . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , they are strongly out - of - equilibrium systems , which are driven by continuous energy supply . </S>",
    "<S> the tasks that have to be performed in order to maintain the cell alive require transportation of various ingredients , some being small , others being large . </S>",
    "<S> intracellular transport processes are able to induce concentration gradients and to carry objects to specific targets . </S>",
    "<S> these processes can not be carried out only by diffusion , as cells may be crowded , and quite elongated on molecular scales . </S>",
    "<S> therefore active transport has to be organized .    </S>",
    "<S> the cytoskeleton , which is composed of three types of filaments ( microtubules , actin and intermediate filaments ) , determines the shape of the cell , and plays a role in cell motion . </S>",
    "<S> it also serves as a road network for a special kind of vehicles , namely the cytoskeletal motors . </S>",
    "<S> these molecules can attach to a cytoskeletal filament , perform directed motion , possibly carrying along some cargo , and then detach .    </S>",
    "<S> it is a central issue to understand how intracellular transport driven by molecular motors is regulated . </S>",
    "<S> the interest for this type of question was enhanced when it was discovered that intracellular transport breakdown is one of the signatures of some neuronal diseases like the alzheimer .    </S>",
    "<S> we give a survey of the current knowledge on microtubule based intracellular transport . </S>",
    "<S> our review includes on the one hand an overview of biological facts , obtained from experiments , and on the other hand a presentation of some modeling attempts based on cellular automata . </S>",
    "<S> we present some background knowledge on the original and variants of the tasep ( totally asymmetric simple exclusion process ) , before turning to more application oriented models . after addressing microtubule based transport in general , with a focus on _ in vitro _ </S>",
    "<S> experiments , and on cooperative effects in the transportation of large cargos by multiple motors , we concentrate on axonal transport , because of its relevance for neuronal diseases . some important characteristics of axonal transport is that it takes place in a confined environment ; besides several types of motors are involved , that move in opposite directions . </S>",
    "<S> it is a challenge to understand how this bidirectional transport is organized . </S>",
    "<S> we review several features that could contribute to the efficiency of bidirectional transport in the axon , including in particular the role of motor - motor interactions and of the dynamics of the underlying microtubule network . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we also discuss some open questions that may be relevant for future research in this field .    </S>",
    "<S> stochastic transport , intracellular transport , exclusion processes , molecular motors , cytoskeleton , dynamic networks    acronyms    [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]     table .  </S>",
    "<S> [ tab : summary ] summarizes the results that we found  @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm that , for modified attachment / detachment rates , lane formation is obtained both for grand canonical and canonical reservoir . </S>",
    "<S> lane formation implies efficient transport only in the case of a canonical reservoir , and if the number of motors is low enough so as to avoid the filaments to become crowded .    </S>",
    "<S> lane formation can be obtained only if the interaction strength @xmath0 is large enough . </S>",
    "<S> there is no direct measurement of this interaction strength yet . </S>",
    "<S> very crude estimates made from the experiments in  @xcite and @xcite would give too low values . </S>",
    "<S> however , more experimental data would be necessary before giving a conclusive statement .    the most important drawback of this scenario based on lane formation is that it does not seem to survive under confinement  @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> however , infinite diffusivity seems an unrealistic assumption for intracellular traffic . </S>",
    "<S> thus there is a interest in finding alternative scenarios that would work in confined environments . </S>",
    "<S> we explore in the next section some other kind of motor - motor interactions .      as seen in section  [ sec : exp_obs ] , dyneins may side - step to a neighboring proto - filament and it is likely that kinesin can also do so when meeting an obstacle , though it remains a rare event .     if it is blocked by ( a ) one or ( b ) two particles of the other species . </S>",
    "<S> the reservoirs are not shown . from  @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> , title=\"fig : \" ]   if it is blocked by ( a ) one or ( b ) two particles of the other species . </S>",
    "<S> the reservoirs are not shown . from  @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> , title=\"fig : \" ]    we consider a variant of the model of fig .  </S>",
    "<S> [ fig : standard_model ] with finite diffusion , with several parallel two - lane subsystems , and with the possibility for motors to change filament when they meet motors of another species ( see fig .  [ </S>",
    "<S> fig : side_steps ] for details of the rules )  @xcite .    when the rule of fig .  </S>",
    "<S> [ fig : side_steps](a ) is used , lane exchanges are too numerous , and no great current improvement is obtained . by contrast , the more constrained lane changing rule of fig .  </S>",
    "<S> [ fig : side_steps](b ) does lead to lane formation and efficient transport .    </S>",
    "<S> interestingly , when uncorrelated lattice dynamics is added to these side - stepping rules , it promotes lane formation such that lane formation can be obtained even for the rule of fig .  </S>",
    "<S> [ fig : side_steps](a ) . </S>",
    "<S> besides , as we already saw in section  [ sec : dyn_model_phase_transition ] , lattice dynamics by itself can improve current , with a higher efficiency than obtained by one - obstacle side - stepping .      the examination of the models in this chapter yields the general result that it is not trivial to observe bidirectional transport of particles which move along the same track , if motor exclusion and finite diffusion are taken into account .    </S>",
    "<S> though the nature of motor - motor interactions still has to be explored experimentally , we have shown that it is possible to find some interactions that make bidirectional transport efficient even under confinement - an appealing scenario as it proposes a very easy solution to achieve long - range transport by local interactions . </S>",
    "<S> it should be possible to design experiments with molecular motors and microtubules to demonstrate lane formation - if the interactions between molecular motors turn out to be strong enough .    </S>",
    "<S> we also reported in section  [ sec : dyn ] that a transition towards efficient transport is obtained when the underlying lattice itself is dynamical . </S>",
    "<S> this rather counter - intuitive result - transport is more efficient when parts of the roads are suppressed - still needs to be confirmed under more realistic modeling efforts of axonal transport .    </S>",
    "<S> however , several experimental observations seem to confirm the strong link between mt dynamics and axonal transport . in medicine , </S>",
    "<S> a possible neuropathy following the treatment of cancer by mt - stabilizing drugs such as paclitaxel or docetaxel is a well - known phenomenon  @xcite and presumably linked to the breakdown of axonal transport  @xcite . recently , _ in vivo _ experimental imaging has shown that the breakdown of mt dynamics induced by the injection of paclitaxel indeed coincides with the breakdown of vesicle transport  @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> though this does not prove that one is the cause of the other , these experiments are strong indications of an interplay between mt dynamics and transport .    </S>",
    "<S> an important remark is that scenarios for efficient transport based on motor - motor interactions or on lattice dynamics should not be thought as competing scenarios . on the contrary </S>",
    "<S> , we found in many cases that both contribute in a cooperative way to the global efficiency of transport .    in this chapter , we have discussed that efficient transport is based on the control of jammed configurations which naturally arise in bidirectional transport under strong confinement . </S>",
    "<S> a full modeling of motor driven transport in axons is not accessible yet since much information is still lacking , concerning for example motor interactions or the details of axonal mt dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> a few of the open questions will be listed in section  [ sec : challenges ] . </S>",
    "<S> however , many informations should become available in the coming years and allow for more accurate modeling . </S>"
  ]
}