{
  "article_text": [
    "barring significant modifications to known physical law , compelling evidence suggests that most of our universe is composed of missing dark energy and matter .",
    "the dark energy component is compatible with a cosmological constant @xmath5 , which effectively contributes a negative pressure , equal to the energy density in magnitude but reversed sign ( @xmath6 ) .",
    "dark matter on the other hand generally needs to be cold ( or at least warm ) , in the sense of having small enough streaming length at matter and radiation equality , so as to satisfy structure formation constraints , including lyman - alpha bounds ( e.g. , viel et .",
    "al . 2013 ) .",
    "the cold dark matter ( cdm ) scenario has developed over three decades into a remarkably successful model for structure formation , despite some problems on galactic scales ( e.g. , frenk & white 2012 for a review ) .    despite the successes of the @xmath5cdm cosmology , the origin of the missing components remains obscure . in the case of dark energy , particularly perplexing is the unexpectedly small value and its relatively recent domination of the energy budget of our universe .",
    "these issues have triggered much investigation , seeking a myriad of alternatives to the cosmological constant as the driver of late cosmic acceleration ( e.g. , li et .",
    "al . 2011 ; yoo & watanabe 2012 ) .",
    "dark energy and dark matter need not form separate components .",
    "in particular , if a single unified dark fluid obeys an equation of state such the magnitude of its ( negative ) pressure decreases rapidly enough with density , then it may behave as cdm at high densities and much like @xmath5 at low densities .",
    "this contention is appealing and plausible in principle , given the observation that the negative pressure contribution to the content of the universe only becomes important in recent cosmological epochs , when the total energy density has been significantly diluted by expansion ; and that the bulk of structure formation , including collapse leading to gravitationally bound structures , took place before dark energy became dominant .",
    "cdm - like hierarchical structure formation may then proceed naturally , as in @xmath5cdm prior to @xmath5 domination . in this picture , the bound structures , thus formed , remain at high density , impervious to later cosmological density dilution , when the unified dark matter gas acts as dark energy on large scales , playing the role of @xmath5 .",
    "most extensively studied among unified dark matter models has been the generalised chaplygin gas cosmology ( kamenshchik , moschella & pasquier 2001 ; bento , bertomlami & sen 2002 ) . here , the relevant fluid",
    "is endowed with the equation of state  , as a principal concern will be to compare typical speeds in galaxies with sound speeds in a unified dark matter fluid . ]",
    "@xmath7 the positive parameters @xmath8 and @xmath0 can be adjusted so that the associated solutions of the friedman equations match the expansion history of the universe , as revealed by supernovae type ia data .",
    "2010 ) find a preferred value of @xmath9 .",
    "this is remarkable , as this original chaplygin gas cosmological model ( with @xmath10 ) is particularly well motivated from a theoretical point of view ( gorini et al .",
    "2006 ; jackiw 2000 ) . however , this value of @xmath0 turns out to be in tension with the estimated age of the universe , and in catastrophic contradiction with probes of structure formation .",
    "indeed , it has long been known that the non - zero pressure associated with unified dark matter may significantly stem the growth of structure : perturbations can become jeans stable ; rather than collapse they oscillate , imprinting unobserved signatures on the matter density fluctuation power spectrum ( sandvik et al . 2004 ) . including",
    "the baryonic component in the analysis of the growth of fluctuations ameliorates the situation somewhat ( bea et al . 2003 ) .",
    "nevertheless , values of @xmath0 very close to zero or greater than one ( when sound speeds can become superluminal ) are still favoured ( gorini et .",
    "al . 2008a : fabris et",
    ". al . 2008 ; fabris , velten & zimdahl 2010 ) .",
    "a final apparent _ coup de grace _ comes from combining supernovae data with matter power spectrum constraints , as well as cosmic microwave background and baryon acoustic oscillations data .",
    "this seems to conclusively constrain @xmath0 to very small values near zero , with the implication that the ensuing model is virtually indistinguishable from @xmath5cdm ( e.g. park et .",
    "al . 2010 ; wang et .",
    "al . 2013 ) .",
    "the above constraints were deduced by considering linear growth of structure from adiabatic perturbations .",
    "non - adiabatic perturbations ( e.g. , reis et .",
    "al . 2003 ; zimdahl & fabris 2005 ; billic , tupper & viollier 2007 ) and nonlinearities were therefore considered .",
    "it is not clear whether initially non - adiabatic perturbations would remain impervious to pressure forces into the nonlinear regime , and thus whether invoking these solves the problem of structure formation in unified dark matter models .",
    "nonlinear collapse ( including pressure forces ) was investigated by billic et .",
    "2004 ) , starting from a homogeneous background and using a simple collapse model coupled to the press - schecter formalism .",
    "they found that only a small fraction of initial density perturbations lead to collapsed structures akin to dark matter haloes .",
    "their model is nevertheless open to refinement .",
    "another crucial issue concerns the fact that collapsed unified dark matter structures ( that form bound cdm - like haloes ) , decouple from the pressure budget , they therefore do not contribute to the dark energy content ( billic et .",
    "al . 2003 ; avelino et .",
    "al . 2004 ; avelino , bolejko & lewis 2014 ) .",
    "this component , already collapsed into bound systems , behaves as pressureless matter , and can thus cluster accordingly .",
    "clustering also affects the background evolution ( which is driven by a modified effective pressure ) , and it has been suggested that the resulting effective equation of state could allow chaplygin gas cosmologies to be compatible with available observations for all relevant values of the index @xmath0 , provided the clustering is efficient enough . this is a powerful argument , though accurately evaluating the effective equation of state would require detailed understanding of chaplygin gas hydrodynamics as the fluid forms structures in a cosmological context , or at least much more detailed modelling of the collapse and clustering process than has been hitherto available .",
    "nevertheless , whatever the intermediate evolution , if the final quasi - equilibrium haloes are to be indistinguishable from their largely successful cdm counterparts , it is required that they have similar density profiles in the outer regions . for this to happen",
    ", the pressure gradients associated with the chaplygin gas should either be negligible or somehow collude as to result in an empirically viable density profile , at least up to radii where direct discriminants ( such as rotation curves of galaxies and x - ray emissions from clusters ) are available .",
    "these requirements may not be easily satisfied , as the average density of cdm haloes within their virial radii is only @xmath11 times more dense than the average density of the universe ( by definition ) and is smaller in the outer regions ; pressure gradients could therefore be palpable in the outer parts of galaxies .",
    "on the other hand , the possibility that significant pressure gradients could collude so as to lead to profiles similar to those of cdm haloes is unlikely , given that  as opposed to the case of collisionless cdm  the existence of definite equation of state ensures a unique solution to the hydrostatic equilibrium ( and associated density profile ) , given the boundary conditions .    in this context",
    ", we consider the effect of pressure gradients on the outskirts of spherical unified dark matter haloes in hydrostatic equilibrium , showing that the effect of such gradients should be observable if present . in the case of the generalised chaplygin gas ,",
    "this restricts plausible values of @xmath0 .",
    "more generally , we provide constraints on possible values of the sound speed ( and therefore equation of state ) . section  [ sec : equi ] gives a brief introduction to the basic properties of chaplygin gas , then discusses its self - gravitating hydrostatic equilibrium and associated density distribution ; more general properties of any fluid with sound speed increasing with decreasing density are discussed in appendix  b. the transition from cdm - like behaviour is tackled in section  [ sec : trans ] , the resulting outer rotation curves are then compared with their observed counterparts . in section  [ sec : clus ] further , and more quantitative , constraints on plausible values of the generalised chaplygin index @xmath0 are obtained by comparing the density profiles of chaplygin haloes with observationally inferred cluster halo profiles . in section  [ sec : gen ] general constraints on the equation of state are derived from the general properties expected of dark matter haloes .",
    "the sound speed associated with the equation of state  ( [ eq : state ] ) is given by @xmath12 as we will see below @xmath8 takes values that are of the order of the present critical density to the power @xmath13 .",
    "thus we can immediately see that the sound speed will tend to zero if @xmath14 , for any @xmath15 , or at high densities ( relative to the critical density ) if @xmath0 is large enough .",
    "this property will be important in what follows as it will determine when pressure gradients are important in haloes .    using the equation of state , along with those governing the evolution of a homogeneous expanding universe ,",
    "one finds that the density of the homogeneous component in such a universe evolves with the scale factor as @xmath16 where @xmath17 is another positive constant , and the scale factor is chosen so that @xmath18 at the present cosmological epoch .",
    "a chaplygin gas dominated universe will therefore have @xmath19 for sufficiently small @xmath20 , as in the standard matter dominated case . with a present - epoch energy density @xmath21 , eventually @xmath22 , and",
    "the universe is entirely dark energy dominated .",
    "it is thus possible to associate the constant @xmath8 with the dark energy content , and the second term in the brackets of equation  ( [ eq : chapl ] with a matter contribution .",
    "this fixes the constant @xmath8 to @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the present matter contribution to the critical density .",
    "alternatively , one may leave @xmath8 as a free parameter to be determined by best - fitting models to observations ( e.g. , wu & yu 2007 ) , in which case one obtains @xmath25 ; that is , approximately the same values as obtained from equation  ( [ eq : a ] ) . in general ,",
    "@xmath26 for a universe that is on the verge of being dominated entirely by dark energy . in the following we use equation  ( [ eq : a ] ) with @xmath27 and @xmath28 [ eq : crit ] to determine @xmath8 .",
    "finally , we note that this determination assumed a homogeneous chaplygin gas with no clustering .",
    "the effect of clustering on fixing the values of the chaplygin gas parameters has not been studied in detail .",
    "the simple clustering model of avelino et .",
    "2014 ) predicts that the effective equation of state for the homogeneous component of a highly clustered system becomes , as @xmath29 , @xmath30 ( in units of @xmath31 ) , which implies that @xmath32 . at @xmath18 , their fig .",
    "1 suggests that @xmath33 if one starts with @xmath34 clustering and with @xmath35 .",
    "this means that @xmath36 , which is of the same order as the estimates above .      in the standard ( cdm ) scenario of structure formation",
    ", haloes are formed as primordial density fluctuations turn around , collapse , and virialise ( e.g. mo , van den bosch & white 2010 ) . during this process",
    "the dynamics is collisionless and so pressure forces are absent .",
    "pressure forces are important for the dynamics of the gaseous baryonic component , which obeys a conventional equation of state with positive pressure growing with density .",
    "this means that if pressure forces are non - negligible at the initial stage of a collapsing gaseous sphere , they can only increase as this sphere shrinks .",
    "the situation is reversed if the sphere is made of unified dark matter , where the magnitude of the pressure decreases with density . in this case , if the pressure forces are negligible at the initial stage of the collapse , they will remain so as the system shrinks .",
    "this property may facilitate the collapse , but could also render pressure forces important in the outer regions ( with small densities ) of the final structure that ensues from that collapse .    before examining the possible effects of pressure gradients on density distributions of outer parts of haloes , consider first the hydrostatic equilibrium of a sphere of generalised chaplygin gas .",
    "such an equilibrium can be achieved because , although the pressure @xmath37 is negative , it is more negative for smaller densities ; it is thus an increasing function of density , and so its radial derivative is negative when the equilibrium involves a negative radial density gradient .",
    "such a pressure gradient can thus act to balance self - gravity .   for velocites and densities expected in dark matter haloes , the equation for hydrostatic",
    "equilibrium reduces to the standard newtonian form , which equates the pressure gradient to the gravitational force at radius @xmath38 ( appendix  [ a : norel ] ) : @xmath39 where @xmath40 . using  ( [ eq : state ] )",
    ", one can derive @xmath41 which has a power law solution @xmath42 . for small @xmath0",
    "this density profile is similar to the central cusp of an nfw halo ( navarro , frenk & white 1997 ) . and",
    "it comes with a rising rotation curve for any positive @xmath0 .",
    "this is generic ; as shown in appendix  [ a : flatno ] , no flat or falling rotation curves  that is , ones associated with density distributions falling as @xmath43 or steeper can be associated with pressure supported systems with sound speed decreasing with density .",
    "thus , unless pressure gradients are negligible throughout the observable regions of galaxies and clusters , or the form of the equation of state is modified in the presence of significant density gradients , such models are conclusively incompatible with observations .",
    "most of the following is concerned with examining the conditions under which the first possibility can be realised . as pointed out in appendix  [ a : flatno ]",
    ", the second possibility does not appear viable .",
    "a unified dark fluid that behaves as pressureless dark matter on galactic scales would be governed by the jeans equations .",
    "that is , for spherical equilibrium structures with isotropic velocity dispersion @xmath44 this is the same as equation  ( [ eq : hydro ] ) , with @xmath45 replaced by @xmath46 , where where @xmath47 is to be associated with the one dimensional velocity dispersion supporting a collisionless equilibrium .",
    "however , whereas equation  ( [ eq : hydro ] ) has a unique solution , given the equation of state and boundary conditions , equation  ( [ eq : jeans ] ) supports an infinity of density and velocity dispersions pairs that solve it .",
    "it is indeed remarkable that out of all possible solutions , cosmological halo profiles fall into a highly constrained set , reasonably well approximated by the nfw fitting formula .",
    "this is not expected to be reproduced by the unique solution corresponding to the chaplygin gas at all radii ( as we saw in the previous section ) .    in general , both the effective pressure , born of the velocity dispersion of fluid elements , and the pressure emanating from the equation of state may contribute , so that @xmath48 as long as @xmath49 , this equation reduces to the jeans equation with associated cdm - like behaviour . however , if @xmath50 , one expects the solution to tend towards that of the hydrostatic equilibrium of the previous section , with its rising rotation curve . in the regions of flat rotation curve haloes",
    "are isothermal , so that @xmath51 is nearly constant .",
    "in such regions , the condition for collisionless behaviour becomes @xmath52 meaning that , for a given self gravitating mass density distribution , the speed of sound of the unified dark matter fluid making up the halo has to be much less than the equilibrium velocity dispersion that could support the density profile against gravity .",
    "this condition should also hold approximately in the outer parts of nfw haloes where the rotation curves are slowly falling with radius .",
    "flat rotation curves are are associated with density profiles falling as @xmath53 , and in a collsionless systems these are associated with constant velocity dispersion @xmath51 . in a system made of unified dark matter , additional pressure forces",
    "may contribute , corrupting the @xmath54 isothermal profile ; since , as we saw in the presbious section , when this pressure dominates , the density profiles fall less steeply with radius . to check",
    "if flat rotation curves remain uncorrupted over observable radii , one can solve equation  ( [ eq : gen ] ) with constant @xmath51 and look for deviations from an isothermal profile , born of non - negligible pressure gradient   may actually _ underestimate _ the density ( and overestimate the radius ) at which pressure gradients should have significant effect on the rotation curves . ] .",
    "if @xmath51 is constant and @xmath37 is solely a function of density , one can differentiate  ( [ eq : gen ] ) with respect to @xmath38 , while making use of the relation @xmath55 , to obtain @xmath56 here @xmath57 and @xmath58 . for a generalised chaplygin gas @xmath59 and @xmath60 .",
    "this procedure is similar to that used in obtaining the lane - embden equation for stellar polytropes , though we skip here the step of transforming to dimnensionless variables here , keeping the physical quantities which , for illustration , will be directly compared with the specific case of a milky way like galaxy counterparts .",
    "equation  ( [ eq : iso ] ) was thus integrated while fixing the parameters to values relevant to a milky way like galaxy . in the absence of pressure forces",
    ", the halo is assumed to be a singular isothermal sphere , with @xmath61 , and @xmath51 chosen so that the circular rotation speed ( @xmath62 ) is 220  km / s .",
    "the corresponding density at solar radius is consistent with the local dark matter density inferred from observations and expected from standard cdm halo profiles ( e.g. , salucci et .",
    "al 2010 ; bovy & tremaine 2012 ) ; if slightly on the higher end , as the asymptotic rotation speed is assumed here to arise entirely from the gravity of the dark matter component ( figures  16 and  17 of xu et .",
    "al . 2008 , for example , suggest that a baryon contribution to the rotation speed of @xmath63 at 60  kpc , which translates in a factor of about 1.4 in density ) . at @xmath64  kpc ,",
    "the pressure forces are negligible , so that one can use the density for the isothermal sphere ( and the associated radial derivative ) to define the initial value problem and integrate equation  ( [ eq : iso ] ) outwards .",
    "note that since equation  ( [ eq : iso ] ) is local , the fact that a singular isothermal sphere may not correctly reproduce the dark matter mass distribution at very small or large radii is not important , as long we are interested in a region where a collisionless dark matter density should fall off as @xmath54 .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dens ] for the chaplygin gas ( @xmath10 ) .",
    "condition  ( [ eq : pcond ] ) starts to be violated at @xmath65  kpc ; accordingly , the density profile starts deviating from isothermal as expected . the corresponding rotation curves are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : rot ] for several values of @xmath0 .",
    "as can be seen , unless @xmath0 is very small ( associated with a @xmath5cdm cosmology ) or greater than one ( and thus can correspond to superluminal sound speed ) , the rotation curve sharply deviates from flatness , rising steeply at radii significantly smaller than the expected milky way halo virial radius ( @xmath11  kpc ) .",
    "this is a consequence of the form of the sound speed as defined in equation  ( [ eq : sound ] ) ; the multiplicative factor @xmath0 ensures a small sound speed is relatively small at all densities for small @xmath0 , while the sound speed decreases steeply with density for large enough @xmath0 .",
    "for the milky way there is no evidence that the rotation curve takes to rising at such radii . indeed ,",
    "if anything , all the evidence suggests the contrary ( xue et .",
    "al . 2008 ; bhattacharjee , chaudhury & kundu 2014 ) .",
    "there are also many galaxies where direct measurements of the rotation curve exclude the possibility , while still exhibiting @xmath66 .",
    "some examples are shown on table  1 .",
    "( as in the case of the milky way above , the rotation curves are assumed to be entirely dominated by dark matter at the largest radii probed .",
    "we thus use @xmath67 , where @xmath68 is the observed circular velocity at the maximum radius probed .",
    "the sound speed is calculated from equation  [ eq : sound ] , using the expected dark fluid density of the isothermal sphere associated with @xmath51 .",
    "including a baryonic contribution would decrease the needed dark sector density , decreasing @xmath51 and further increasing @xmath69 ) .",
    ".examples of the velocity dispersions @xmath51 , required to support an isothermal halo profile with flat rotation curve , exceeded by the cahplygin gas ( @xmath35 ) sound speed @xmath69 at maximum radius , @xmath70 , probed observationally .",
    "data for ngc 3741 is taken from gentile et .",
    "al . ( 2006 ) ; malin 1 , from lelli , fraternali & sancisi ( 2010 ) ; u1230 and u5005 from de blok & mcgaugh ( 1997 ) ; u5750 from mcgaugh , rubin & de blok ( 2001 ) ; ngc5055 , from de blok et",
    "2008 ) ; ugc 11852 , from noordermeer et al.(2007 ) ; n3198 and d154 , from bottema & pestana ( 2015 ) [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the radially extended hot gas in clusters of galaxies allows for the probing of the gravitational potential up to large radii .",
    "when the density profile is decomposed , the dark halo density contribution can be reasonably fit using the standard nfw profile . given this , the pressure forces associated with chaplygin gas halo need to be negligible , contributing insignificantly to the support against self gravity out to the maximum radii probed ( so that the configuration behaves as a collisionless equilibrium that can be fit by nfw ) .",
    "this section is concerned with checking whether this is true for a sample of galaxy clusters .",
    "this will be done by using nfw fits inferred from observations , then calculating the pressure force associated with the nfw density at the maximal observed radius , then comparing it with the force of self gravity of the inferred halo at that radius .",
    "note that the nfw is employed here as a useful parametrisation ( as it has been extensively used in fitting cluster profiles ) ; the crucial point being that it fits steeply decreasing outer density profiles of observed clusters , while the profiles associated with a unified dark fluid with significant pressure gradient do not ( as they fall off too slowly with radius as seen in the previous sections ) .",
    "any profile that fits the observed mass distribution equally well would give similar constraints , within the errors associated with the particular empirical fit , as those deduced below .",
    "the nfw profile is given by @xmath71 where @xmath72 is a characteristic density and @xmath73 the radial scale length .",
    "for a halo concentration parameter @xmath74 @xmath75 where the function in the denominator is given by @xmath76 defining @xmath77 , the pressure gradient of a generalised chaplygin gas with this density distribution is given by @xmath78 while the self gravity term for such a configuration takes the form @xmath79    in this context , we define the ratio @xmath80 at large radiii , @xmath81 ",
    "@xmath82 , which can not be maintained if the pressure gradient is non - negligible , as we saw in the previous sections .",
    "therefore , it is necessary that , at the maximum radius probed by the observations , @xmath83 where @xmath84 , @xmath85 being the maximal radius probed by observations .",
    "we now wish to test where this is the case for actual clusters of galaxies . for that purpose",
    "we use the results of ettori et .",
    "2010 ) , averaging over the two methods they employed for deducing the nfw parameter and setting @xmath86 and @xmath87 , as given in their table  2 .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : eta ] . as can be seen ,",
    "unless the index @xmath0 is very small ( @xmath88 ) or large enough ( @xmath2 ) , the ratio @xmath89 can be of order one or larger .",
    "this is agreement with the results of the previous section , and also of linear analysis . as opposed to the linear case",
    ", however , the degree of clustering of the large scale chaplygin gas does not appear to be important , since the inferred value of @xmath8 does not seem to vary much with clustering ( c.f .",
    "section  2 ) .    as will be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : eta ] , for each value of @xmath0 there is significant scatter in @xmath89 .",
    "this includes intrinsic scatter in the values of the inferred halo parameters ; significant errors entering in the estimation of those parameter ; as well as systematics due to the variation of the maximum radius probed by the observations .",
    "we examine in more detail the important case of @xmath10 in fig .",
    "[ fig : xm ]  and  [ fig : xmc ] . from those figures",
    "one infers that there is systematic increase in @xmath89 for clusters that are observed out to larger radii .",
    "it is therefore safe to assume that despite the large errors in @xmath89 , stemming from the collusion of errors in estimates of nfw halo scale lengths and concentration parameters the constraints on @xmath0 are in fact rendered conservative by the limitations of maximum radii probed .",
    "probing to larger radii is likely to systematically increase the deduced values of @xmath89 , further constraining the model . in the next section",
    "we show that this is the case , as tighter constraints are inferred from nfw halo properties at the virial radius .",
    "direct observations of the internal dynamics of galaxies and clusters usually fall well short of the expected virial radii of the haloes believed to envelop these systems .",
    "nevertheless , weak lensing fields are also well fit by assuming that collapsed structures follow nfw - like density profiles ( e.g. , mandelbaum 2006 ; oguri & hamana 2011 ) ; if anything the fits are in fact better when these are truncated beyond the virial radius , so as to fall faster than the @xmath82 behaviour associated with an outer nfw profile .",
    "this is again incompatible with the slowly falling density profiles of pressure supported unified dark matter fluids . in this section",
    "we obtain further constraints , based on properties of nfw haloes derived from simulations , by requiring that the unified dark fluid pressure gradient be small up to the virial radius .    in the most general terms , in order for a unified dark matter fluid to behave as cdm , one requires that @xmath90 . for an nfw halo and from @xmath91 out to the virial radius , @xmath92 is a slowly varying function of @xmath38 and so the above condition reduces to that of equation  ( [ eq : pcond ] ) , meaning that the speed of sound must be much less that the isotropic equilibrium velocity dispersion that could support the density profile against gravity . at large radii",
    ", the velocity dispersion of an nfw halo tends to an asymptotic value such that @xmath93 ( e.g. , el - zant 2006 , appendix b ) , so that @xmath94 we can eliminate @xmath73 by using  ( [ eq : vir ] ) . in addition",
    "@xmath95 and @xmath96 are found to correlate in numerical simulations , namely through power law relations of the form @xmath97 the logarithmic slope @xmath98 is found to be of the order of @xmath99 , and the parameters @xmath100 and @xmath101 take values such that @xmath102 for a halo of @xmath103 solar masses .",
    "for example klypin , trujillo - gomez , & primack ( 2011 ) obtain @xmath104 and @xmath105 for @xmath106 .",
    "( there is also an apparent upturn in the mass concentration relation at high masses , though it has been argued that this is due to the inclusion of non - relaxed systems ; ludlow et .",
    "al . 2012 ) .    using these relations",
    "one finds that @xmath107 where @xmath108 @xmath109 and @xmath110 is the halo overdensity within the virial radius , such that ( at @xmath111 ) @xmath112 and @xmath113 . for @xmath114 , and values of @xmath100 , @xmath101 and @xmath98",
    "mentioned above , @xmath115 is of order @xmath116 .    at the virial radius @xmath117",
    "this is a general constraint that the equation of state of any unified dark matter fluid should obey .",
    "that is , the sound speed should either be small everywhere or decrease sufficiently with density so that the above relation is satisfied at the virial radius .",
    "for example , for the generalised chaplygin gas with an nfw profile the sound speed is @xmath118 ( where we have assumed large enough @xmath95 so that @xmath119 and @xmath120 ) . for a generalised chaplygin gas to behave as pressureless dark matter with an nfw profile up to the virial radius thus requires @xmath121 where we have used @xmath122 . for @xmath123 , @xmath124 , and for a milky way like galaxy @xmath125 , so that @xmath0 needs to be either very small or significantly larger than @xmath126 for the above inequality to be satisfied .",
    "for example , for @xmath95 one needs either @xmath127 or @xmath128 for the ratio to be less than one ; , for @xmath129 the index is further constrained to @xmath130 or @xmath131 .",
    "in unified dark matter models both dark energy and dark matter are reproduced by one component , which can behave as pressureless dark matter at high density and as negative pressure dark energy at low densities . in a cosmological context , past the radiation era",
    ", this implies a phase of matter domination followed by dark energy driven expansion .    in terms of halo structure , the unified dark matter scenario also has its appeal , in principle : bound object , if they form , should have density high enough so that the dark fluid they are made of behaves as pressureless dark matter , of the sort that the haloes harbouring galaxies are believed to be made of .",
    "nevertheless , the densities of dark matter haloes is not exceedingly large ; the average mass within the virial radius is by definition only @xmath11 times larger than the ambient density of the universe , it is smaller still in the outer regions .",
    "one may therefore ask if the pressure forces associated with the unified dark matter can have significant effect on the structure of such haloes at observable radii , and what that effect , if present , may be .",
    "in the prototypical case of the generalised chaplygin gas it was shown that  in order to reproduce the observed outer rotation curves in galaxies and inferred outer density profiles in clusters  the index @xmath0 of equation  ( [ eq : state ] ) should be constrained so that either @xmath2 or @xmath1 .",
    "cosmological models with small @xmath0 are quite close to @xmath5cdm .",
    "the sound speed in large @xmath0 models can be superluminal , though it has been argued that this does not necessarily violate causality ( gorini et .",
    "large @xmath0 models are also in principle observationally distinguishable from @xmath5cdm , as they have the interesting imprint of describing a background evolution that transitions rather abruptly from a matter dominated to a de stter phase ( piatella 2010 ) .",
    "the bounds derived here are similar to those obtained from studying the linear clustering regime ( e.g. , gorini et .",
    "al . 2008 ) , though in that latter case it appears that the constraints may be circumvented by invoking the effect of nonlinear clustering on the effective equation of state ( avelino et .",
    "al . 2014 ) .",
    "this effect has not been studied in detail , though the simplest model ( described in the aforementioned reference ) does not imply modifications that would affect the results presented here significantly ( cf . section  2.1 ) .",
    "the discrepancies , leading to the aforementioned constraints , are generic ; they stem from the observational requirement that the outer density profile of galaxies and clusters fall off at least as @xmath54 , while those unified dark matter systems have significantly shallower profiles when the pressure dominates .",
    "indeed , for a generalised chaplygin gas configuration with significant pressure gradient , the density falls as @xmath132 or slower ( section  2.2 ) .",
    "in general , it can be shown that , for any dark fluid with barotropic equation of state and sound speed decreasing with density , profiles associated with flat or falling rotation curves  and therefore also a density distribution characteristic of the outer parts of clusters  can not be supported when the unified dark fluid pressure forces are dominant ( appendix  b ) .",
    "that the sound speed decreases with increasing density is a necessary condition if the fluid is to behave as collsionless dark matter at high density .",
    "requiring that unified dark matter haloes conform to nfw profiles up to the virial radius leads to further , tighter , constraints on the sound speed and associated equation of state .",
    "although the range of empirical dynamical evidence prsented here mostly falls well short of the expected virial radii of the haloes of the systems examined , weak lensing signals , which probe the density distribution to mauch larger radii , are well modelled by invoking nfw - like halo density distributions ( e.g. , mandelbaum 2006 ; oguri & hamana 2011 ) .",
    "the nfw profile serves as a useful paramtrisation of the density profile of the gravitationally bound component of the mass distribution when fitting the lensing data ; it predicts an outer density profile falling as @xmath133 .",
    "if anything , better fits to the lensing data are achieved by truncating the halo profiles used so that the density falls off far faster than nfw beyond the virial radius .",
    "this is in stark contradiction with the slowly falling density profiles we find when a pressure contribution associated with a unified dark fluid is significant in the outer regions of self gravitating configurations .",
    "these shallow profiles should persist well beyond the virial radius typical of a cdm i halo , in fact they should continue until the unified dark matter fluid composing the halo reaches pressure equilibrium with the ambient homogeneous background representing the dark energy .",
    "such a situation would appear to be in clear contradiction with the lensing data . to fit that data one needs a rapidly falling desnsity distribution around in the outer parts of self gravitating configurations .",
    "i would like to thank gary tupper for useful discussions and adel awad form commenting on the manuscript .",
    "armendariz - picon c. , lim e.  a. , 2005 , jcap , 8 , 007    avelino p.  p. , bec ca l.  m. , de carvalho j.  p. , martins c.  j. , copeland e.  j. , 2004 , phys .",
    "rev d. , 69 , 041301    avelino p.  p. , bolejko k. , lewis g.  f. , 2014 , phys .",
    "d , 89 , 103004    bea l.  m. , avelino p.  p. , de carvalho j.  p. , , martins c.  j. , 2003 , phys .",
    "d , 67 , 101301    bento m.  c. , bertolami o. , sen a.  a. , 2002 , phys .",
    "d , 66 , 043507    bhattacharjee p. , chaudhury s. , kundu s. , 2014 , apj , 785 , 63    bilic n. , lindebaum r.  j. , tupper g.  b. , viollier r.  d. , 2003 , arxiv : astro - ph/0310181    bilic n. , lindebaum r.  j. , tupper , g.  b. , viollier , r.  d. , 2004 , jcap , 11 , 8    bilic n. , tupper g.  b. , viollier r.  d. , 2007 , journal of physics a , 40 , 6877    bottema r. , pestana j.  l.  g. , 2015 , arxiv:1501.06424    bovy j. , tremaine s. , 2012 , apj , 756 , 89    de blok w.  j.  g. , mcgaugh s.  s. , 1997 , mnras , 290 , 533    de blok w.  j.  g. , walter f. , brinks e. , et al . , 2008 , aj , 136 , 2648    diez - tejedor a. , gonzalez - morales a.  x. , 2013 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 88 , 067302    el - zant a.  a. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 1247    ettori s. , gastaldello f. , leccardi a. , et al . , 2010 , , a & a , 524 , aa68    fabris j.  c. , gonc calves s.  v.  b. , velte h.  e.  s. , zimdahl w. 2008 , phys .",
    "d , 78 , 103523    fabris j.  c. , velten h.  e.  s. , zimdahl w. , 2010 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 81 , 087303    frenk c.  s. , white s.  d.  m. , 2012 , annalen der physik , 524 , 507    gentile g. , salucci p. , klein u. , granato , g.  l. , 2007 , mnras , 375 , 199    gorini v. , kamenshchik a. , moschella u. , pasquier v. , 2006 , in novello m. , bergliaffa s. p. , ruffini r. , eds .",
    ", proceedings of the mg10 meeting held at brazilian center for research in physics ( cbpf ) , rio de janeiro , brazil , 20 - 26 july 2003 , world scientific publishing , singapore    gorini v. , kamenshchik a.  y. , moschella u. , piattella o.  f. , starobinsky a.  a. , 2008a , jcap , 2 , 016    gorini v. , moschella u. , kamenshchik a.  y. , pasquier v. , starobinsky a.  a. , 2008b , phys .",
    "d , 78 , 064064    gorini v. , kamenshchik a.  y. , moschella u. , piattella o.  f. , starobinsky a.  a. , 2009 , phys .",
    "d , 80 , 104038    jackiw r. , 2000 , a particle field theorist s lectures on supersymmetric , non - abelian fluid mechanics and d - branes , springer verlag , berlin .",
    "arxiv : physics/0010042    kamenshchik a. , moschella u. , pasquier v. , 2001 , physics letters b , 511 , 265    klypin a.  a. , trujillo - gomez s. , primack j. , 2011 , apj , 740 , 102    lelli f. , fraternali f. , sancisi , r. , 2010 , a & a , 516 , aa11    li m. , li x .- d . , wang s. , wang , y. , 2011 , communications in theoretical physics , 56 , 525    ludlow a.  d. , navarro j.  f. , li m. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 427 , 1322    mandelbaum r. , seljak u. , kauffmann g. , hirata c.  m. , & brinkmann j. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 715    mcgaugh s.  s. , rubin v.  c. , de blok w.  j.  g. , 2001 , aj , 122 , 2381    mo h. , van den bosch f. , white s. , 2010 , galaxy formation and evolution , cambridge university press    navarro j.  f. , frenk c.  s. & white s.  d.  m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493    noordermeer , e. , van der hulst j.  m. , sancisi r. , swaters r.  s. , van albada t.  s. , 2007 , mnras , 376 , 1513    oguri m. , hamana t. , 2011 , mnras , 414 , 1851    park c .- g . , hwang j .- c . , park j. , noh h. , 2010 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 81 , 063532    piattella o.  f. , 2010 , jcap , 3 , 012    reis r.  r. , waga i. , calvo m.  o. , jors s.  e. , 2003 , phys .",
    ", d68 , 061302    salucci p. , nesti f. , gentile g. , frigerio martins c. , 2010 , a & a , 523 , aa83    sandvik h.  b. , tegmark m. , zaldarriaga m. , waga , i. , 2004 , phys .",
    "d , 69 , 123524    viel m. , becker g.  d. , bolton j.  s. , & haehnelt m.  g. , 2013 , phys .",
    "d , 88 , 043502    wang y. , wands d. , xu l. , de - santiago j. , hojjati a. , 2013 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 87 , 083503    yoo j. , watanabe y. , 2012 , international journal of modern physics d , 21 , 1230002    weinberg s. , 1972 , gravitation and cosmology , john wiley & sons inc .",
    "wu p. , yu h. , 2007 , apj , 658 , 663    xue x.  x. , rix h.  w. , zhao g. , et al . , 2008 ,",
    "apj , 684 , 1143    zimdahl w. , fabris j.  c. , 2005 , classical and quantum gravity , 22 , 4311",
    "the equation for hydrostatic equilibrium of a relativistic spherical system composed of a perfect fluid with density @xmath15 , pressure @xmath37 and mass enclosed within radius @xmath134 enclosed within radius @xmath38 is ( e.g. weinberg 1972 ) @xmath135 in the case of generalised chaplygin gas with equation of state of the form  ( [ eq : state ] ) , the rich variety of behaviour in the relativistic self gravitating regime has been described for example by neven , tupper & viollier ( 2006 ) and by gorini et .",
    "al . ( 2008b ; 2009 ) . in this paper",
    "we consider the newtonian limit ; which , as we will see , should apply to configurations with properties akin to those of dark matter haloes .    in a dark halo",
    "the circular velocity @xmath68 is much smaller than the speed of light @xmath136 , so that @xmath137 also , using equation  ( [ eq : state ] ) and  ( [ eq : a ] ) , one finds that @xmath138 since the density within a halo is always much larger than the critical density of the universe .",
    "finally , @xmath139 since @xmath140 is of the same order of the mass of homogeneous distribution with density @xmath141 enclosed inside a sphere of radius @xmath38 , this is much smaller than the actual mass @xmath142 inside such a sphere .",
    "the term in brackets is also small ( as above ) , so that hand side is also much smaller than one .    under these conditions",
    "the condition for hydrostatic equilibrium reduces to the usual newtonian equation @xmath143",
    "it is possible to obtain flat rotation curves by deriving the equations of motion of the chaplygin gas from a scalar field while assuming that the latter possesses space - like gradients in the collapsed ( self gravitating ) phase , which is thus characterised by an accordingly modified equation of state ( e.g. , armendariz - picon & lim 2005 ) .",
    "however this comes at a hefty price .",
    "the gas is no longer an isotropic perfect fluid , the corresponding density distribution has poles and is undefined in the central regions of the self gravitating system , and it general no longer satisfies the positive definite energy condition ( diez - tejedor & gonzalez - morales 2013 ) . in this paper , as in the studies cited in the previous appendix , it is assumed that the equation of state remains unaltered in the collapsed phase .",
    "it will now be shown that , in this case , no flat or falling rotation curves can be obtained for a self gravitating system with non - negligible pressure gradient , if the sound speed is a decreasing function of density .",
    "cosmology requires that the unified dark fluid behaves as a pressureless matter component prior to dark energy domination .",
    "if the equation of state remains unmodified this implies that , at high enough density , that the unified dark matter fluid composing the halo behaves as pressureless dark matter at small radii . nevertheless , pressure forces can become dominant in the outer , low density , regions of the halo",
    ". as the rest of this paper shows , this will be the case , for example , for a generalised chaplygin gas , unless its index @xmath0 is very small or significantly larger than one .",
    "we will now show that in such cases it is not possible to sustain flat or falling outer rotation curves .",
    "when the pressure dominates the support against gravity , the circular speed ( @xmath144 ) in a halo with pressure obeying the equation an equation of state @xmath145 and associated sound speed @xmath146 , is ( using equation  [ eq : hydro ] ) @xmath147 assuming a real sound speed ( @xmath148 ) therefore implies that the density can not increase with radius . from the above we",
    "also have @xmath149 now , assume we have a flat rotation curve up to some radius @xmath150 ( so as to fit observations ) , the associated logarithmic slope around @xmath150 should then be @xmath151 ( so that @xmath43 , @xmath152 and @xmath153 is constant ) .",
    "if the rotation curve is to stay flat , or fall , the logarithmic slope should be @xmath154 for @xmath155 . in this case , the right hand side of equation  ( [ eq : logs ] ) is non - negative . on the other hand , for a flat or falling rotation curve",
    "the left hand side can only be positive if @xmath156 decreases with radius .",
    "but if the unified dark matter fluid is to behave as cdm for high density @xmath156 must decrease with density , and therefore _ increase _ with radius .",
    "thus it is impossible to have flat or falling rotation curves in this case ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> unified dark matter models are appealing in that they describe the dark sector in terms of a single component . </S>",
    "<S> they however face problems when attempting to account for structure formation : in the linear regime , density fluctuations can become jeans stable and oscillate rather than collapse , though it is possible that this difficulty may be circumvented by invoking nonlinear clustering . here </S>",
    "<S> we examine the behaviour in the fully nonlinear regime , of collapsed objects that should mimic standard dark matter haloes . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that the pressure gradient associated with the unified dark matter fluid should be significant in the outer parts of galaxies and clusters , and its effects obervable . in this case , no flat or falling rotation curve is possible for any ( barotropic ) equation of state with associated sound speed decreasing with density ( a necessary condition if the fluid is to behave as pressureless matter at high density ) . </S>",
    "<S> the associated density profile is therefore also incompatible with that inferred in the outer part of clusters . for the prototypical case of the generalised chaplygin gas </S>",
    "<S> , it is shown that this limits the values of the equation of state index @xmath0 that are compatible with observations to @xmath1 or @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> this is in line from what is deduced from linear analysis . </S>",
    "<S> more generally , from the expected properties of dark matter haloes , constraints on the sound speed are derived . </S>",
    "<S> for the particular case of the generalised chaplygin gas , this further constrains the index to @xmath3 or @xmath4 . for a unified dark matter fluid to mimic dark halo properties , therefore </S>",
    "<S> , it needs to have an equation of state such that the pressure gradients are either minimal or which decrease fast enough so as to be negligible at densities characteristic of the outer parts of haloes .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    dark energy  </S>",
    "<S> dark matter  galaxies : haloes  galaxies : clusters : general  cosmology : miscellaneous </S>"
  ]
}