{
  "article_text": [
    "the dynamic stability of steady - state homogeneous sliding between two macroscopic bodies in frictional contact is a basic problem of interest in various scientific disciplines such as physics , solid mechanics , materials science and geophysics .",
    "the emergence of instabilities may give rise to rich dynamics and play a dominant role in a broad range of frictional phenomena  @xcite .",
    "the response of a frictional system to spatiotemporal perturbations , and the accompanying instabilities , are governed by several physical properties and processes .",
    "generally speaking , one can roughly distinguish between bulk effects ( i.e.  the constitutive behavior and properties of the bodies of interest , their geometry and the external loadings applied to them ) and interfacial effects related to the frictional constitutive behavior .",
    "the ultimate goal of a theory in this respect is to identify the relevant physical processes at play , to quantify the interplay between them through properly defined dimensionless parameters and to derive the stability phase diagram in terms of these parameters , together with the growth rate of various unstable modes .    as a background and motivation for what will follow",
    ", we would like first to briefly discuss the various players affecting the stability of frictional sliding , along with stating some relevant results available in the literature .",
    "focusing first on bulk effects , it has been recognized that when considering isotropic linear elastic bodies , there is a qualitative difference between sliding along interfaces separating bodies made of identical materials and interfaces separating dissimilar materials . in the former case",
    ", there is no coupling between interfacial slip and normal stress variations , while in the latter case  due to broken symmetry  such coupling exists  @xcite .",
    "this coupling may lead to a reduction in the normal stress at the interface and consequently to a reduction in the frictional resistance .",
    "hence , bulk material contrast ( i.e.  the existence of a bi - material interface ) potentially plays an important destabilizing role in the stability of frictional sliding .",
    "another class of bulk effects is related to the finite geometry of any realistic sliding bodies and the type of loading applied to them ( e.g. velocity or stress boundary conditions ) . to the best of our knowledge ,",
    "the latter effects are significantly less explored in the literature ( but see  @xcite ) .    in relation to interfacial effects",
    ", it has been established that sliding along a bi - material interface described by the classical coulomb friction law , @xmath5 ( @xmath6 is the local friction stress , @xmath7 is the local compressive normal stress and @xmath8 is a constant friction coefficient ) , is unstable against perturbations at all wavelengths and irrespective of the value of the friction coefficient , when the bi - material contrast is such that the generalized rayleigh wave exists  @xcite .",
    "the latter is an interfacial wave that propagates along frictionless bi - material interfaces , constrained not to feature opening  @xcite .",
    "it is termed the generalized rayleigh wave because it coincides with the ordinary rayleigh wave when the materials are identical and it exists when the bi - material contrast is not too large .",
    "in fact , the response to perturbations in this case is mathematically ill - posed  @xcite .",
    "ill - posedness , which is a stronger condition than instability ( i.e.  all perturbation modes can be unstable , yet a problem can be mathematically well - posed ) , will be discussed later .",
    "it has been then shown that replacing coulomb friction by a friction law in which the friction stress @xmath6 does not respond instantaneously to variations in the normal stress @xmath7 , but rather approaches @xmath5 over a finite time scale , can regularize the problem , making it mathematically well - posed  @xcite .",
    "subsequently , the problem has been addressed within the constitutive framework of rate - and - state friction models , where the friction stress depends both on the slip velocity and the structural state of the interface . within this framework  @xcite ,",
    "the simplest version of the friction stress takes the form @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the difference between the local interfacial slip velocities of the two sliding bodies and @xmath11 is a dynamic coarse - grained state variable . under steady - state sliding conditions the state variable @xmath11 attains a steady - state value determined by @xmath10 , @xmath12 .",
    "within such a constitutive framework , the most relevant physical quantities for the question of stability , which will be extensively discussed below , are the instantaneous response to variations in the slip velocity , @xmath13 ( the so - called `` direct effect '' ) , and the variation of the steady - state frictional strength with the slip velocity , @xmath14  @xcite .",
    "note that here and below we use the following shorthand notation : @xmath15 and @xmath16 .",
    "previous studies have argued that an instantaneous strengthening response , i.e.  the experimentally well - established positive direct effect @xmath17 ( which is associated with thermally activated rheology  @xcite ) , is sufficient to give rise to the existence of a quasi - static range of response to perturbations at sufficiently small slip velocities  @xcite .",
    "the existence of such a quasi - static regime is non - trivial ( e.g. it does not exist for coulomb friction ) ; it implies that when very small slip velocities are of interest , one can reliably address the stability problem in the framework of quasi - static elasticity ( i.e.  omitting inertial terms to begin with ) , rather than considering the full  and more difficult  elastodynamic problem and then take the quasi - static limit .",
    "within such a quasi - static framework , it has been shown that @xmath17 can lead to stable response against sufficiently short wavelength perturbations , even if the interface is velocity - weakening in steady - state , @xmath18  @xcite .",
    "furthermore , it has been shown that sufficiently strong velocity - strengthening , @xmath19 , can overcome the destabilizing bi - material effect , leading to the stability of perturbations at all wavelengths in the quasi - static limit  @xcite .    despite this progress ,",
    "several important questions remain open .",
    "first , to the best of our knowledge the fully elastodynamic stability analysis of bi - material interfaces in the framework of rate - and - state friction models has not been performed .",
    "this is important since the quasi - static regime  when it exists  is expected to be valid only for very small slip velocities ( as was argued in  @xcite and will be explicitly shown below ) .",
    "second , a very recent compilation of a large set of experimental data for a broad range of materials  @xcite has revealed that dry frictional interfaces generically become velocity - strengthening over some range of slip velocities  @xcite . in other cases ,",
    "frictional interfaces are intrinsically velocity - strengthening  @xcite . as velocity - strengthening friction",
    "is expected to play a stabilizing role in the stability of frictional sliding , there emerges a basic question about the interplay between the stabilizing velocity - strengthening friction effect and the destabilizing bi - material effect , when elastodynamics is fully taken into account .",
    "finally , in almost all of the previous studies we are aware of , the sliding bodies were assumed to be infinite ( but see , for example , @xcite ) . yet",
    ", realistic sliding bodies are of finite extent and the interaction with the boundaries may be of importance .    to address these issues we analyze in this paper the linear stability of a deformable solid of height @xmath0 steadily sliding on top of a rigid solid within a generic rate - and - state friction constitutive framework , fully taking into account elastodynamic effects .",
    "the rate - and - state friction constitutive framework includes a single state variable @xmath11 , but is otherwise general in the sense that no special properties of @xmath20 are being specified and rather generic dynamics of @xmath11 are considered .",
    "nevertheless , we will be mostly interested in the physically relevant case in which the interface exhibits a positive instantaneous response to velocity changes , @xmath17 ( positive direct effect )  @xcite , and is steady - state velocity - strengthening , @xmath21 , over some range of slip velocities  @xcite .",
    "in addition , we will consider two variants of the constitutive model , each of which incorporates a regularized response to normal stress variations  @xcite .    while our analysis remains rather general ,",
    "the main simplification we adopt is that we consider the limit of strong material contrast , i.e.  we take one of the solids to be non - deformable . the motivation for this is two - fold .",
    "first , we know that the bi - material effect that emerges from the coupling between interfacial slip and normal stress variations becomes stronger as the material contrast increases  @xcite .",
    "we are interested here in exploring the ultimate range of stability and consequently we focus on strongly dissimilar materials , which will allow us to extract upper bounds on the stability of bi - material frictional interfaces .",
    "second , the strong dissimilar materials limit somewhat reduces the mathematical complexity involved and makes the problem more amenable to analytic progress , as will be shown below .",
    "we suspect that this simplification does not imply qualitative differences compared to the finite material contrast case , though interesting quantitative differences may emerge and will be explored elsewhere .",
    "the finite material contrast case can be studied along the same lines , though it is more technically involved .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows ; in sect .",
    "[ sec : executivesummary ] the main results of the paper are listed . in sect .",
    "[ sec : math ] the basic equations and the constitutive framework are introduced . in sect .",
    "[ sec : spectrum ] the linear stability spectrum for finite height @xmath0 systems is derived , with a focus on standard rate - and - state friction . in sect .  [",
    "sec : finiteh ] the linear stability spectrum is analyzed in the small wave - number @xmath1 limit , demonstrating the existence of a universal instability ( independent of the details of the friction law ) with a fastest growing mode characterized by a wave - number satisfying @xmath2 and a growth rate that scales with @xmath3 . in sect .",
    "[ sec : infiniteh ] the linear stability spectrum is analyzed in the large systems limit , @xmath4 .",
    "we derive the stability phase diagram in terms of a relevant set of dimensionless parameters that quantify the competing physical effects involved .",
    "we show that the dominant instability mode travels at nearly the dilatational wave - speed ( super - shear ) in the opposite direction to the sliding motion . in a certain parameter range this instability is manifested through unstable modes at all wave - numbers , yet the frictional response is shown to be mathematically well - posed .",
    "instability modes which travel at nearly the shear wave - speed in the sliding direction are shown to exist in a relatively small region of the parameter space .",
    "finally , previous results obtained in the quasi - static regime  @xcite are shown to be relevant within a narrow region of the parameter space . in sect .",
    "[ sec : modified - models ] a finite - time regularized response to normal stress variations , within the framework of generalized rate - and - state friction models , is studied .",
    "we show that this regularized response tends to promote stability .",
    "section  [ sec : summary ] offers a brief discussion and some concluding remarks .",
    "the analysis to be presented below is rather extensive and somewhat mathematically involved .",
    "yet , we believe that it gives rise to a number of physically significant and non - trivial results . in order to highlight the logical structure of the analysis and its major outcomes , we list here the main results to be derived in detail later on :    * the stability of a deformable body of finite height @xmath0 steadily sliding on top of a rigid solid is studied .",
    "the linear stability spectrum is derived in the constitutive framework of velocity - strengthening rate - and - state friction models and an instantaneous response to normal stress variations . *",
    "the spectrum takes the form of a complex - variable equation implicitly relating the real wave - number @xmath1 and the complex growth rate @xmath22 of interfacial perturbations .",
    "physically , it represents the balance between the perturbation of the elastodynamic shear stress at the interface and the perturbation of the friction stress ( the latter includes the elastodynamic bi - material effect and constitutive effects )",
    ". the spectrum can feature several distinct classes of solutions . * the linear stability spectrum is first analyzed in the small @xmath23 limit and the existence a universal instability ( independent of the details of the friction law ) is analytically demonstrated .",
    "the instability is shown to be related to waveguide propagating modes , which are strongly coupled to the height @xmath0 .",
    "they are characterized by a wave - number satisfying @xmath2 and a growth rate that scales with @xmath3 .",
    "* as the growth rate of the waveguide - like instability vanishes in the @xmath24 limit , the linear stability spectrum is analyzed also in the large @xmath23 limit , where additional instabilities are sought for .",
    "two classes of new instabilities , qualitatively different from the waveguide - like instability , are found : ( i ) a dynamic instability which is mediated by modes propagating at nearly the dilatational wave - speed ( super - shear ) in the opposite direction to the sliding motion and features a vanishingly small wave - number at threshold ( ii ) a dynamic instability which is mediated by modes propagating at nearly the shear wave - speed in the direction of sliding motion and features a finite wave - number at threshold . * in addition , a third type of instability  which was previously discussed in the literature  exists in the quasi - static regime .",
    "* in all cases , even when all wave - numbers become unstable in a certain parameter range , the frictional response is shown to be mathematically well - posed . * a comprehensive stability phase diagram in the large @xmath23 limit",
    "is derived , presented and physically rationalized .",
    "the stability phase diagram is expressed in terms of relevant set of dimensionless parameters that quantify the competing physical effects involved . * a regularized , finite - time , response of the friction stress to normal stress variations",
    "is analyzed in detail and is shown to promote stability .",
    "that is , the instabilities mentioned above still exist , but their appearance is delayed and the range of unstable wave - numbers is reduced as compared to the case of an instantaneous response to normal stress variations . *",
    "the results may have implications for understanding the failure / rupture dynamics of a large class of bi - material frictional interfaces .",
    "the problem we study involves an isotropic linear elastic solid , of infinite extent in the @xmath25-direction and height @xmath0 in the @xmath26-direction , homogeneously sliding at a velocity @xmath27 in the @xmath25-direction on top of a rigid ( non - deformable and stationary ) half space .",
    "two - dimensional plane - strain deformation conditions are assumed and the geometry of the problem is sketched in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] .       in fig .",
    "[ fig : gaps ] we present numerical solutions of eqs .",
    "and for the very same set of parameters .",
    "it is observed that while each of these solutions is discontinuous in itself , superposing the two solutions generates two _ continuous _ functions , each of which is composed of two segments from different solutions .",
    "we thus propose that the gap observed in fig .",
    "[ fig : comparison ] is related to the solution in eq .  , which features a non - physical exponential divergence as @xmath28 .",
    "in a real system , with a finite height @xmath0 ( however large ) , increasing solutions always exist and will naturally lead to the regularization of the discontinuities that emerge in the strict @xmath24 limit .",
    "ampuero , j .-",
    "p . , ben - zion , y. , 2008 .",
    "cracks , pulses and macroscopic asymmetry of dynamic rupture on a bimaterial interface with velocity - weakening friction .",
    "geophysical journal international 173  ( 2 ) , 674692 .",
    "ben - zion , y. , 2008 .",
    "collective behavior of earthquakes and faults : continuum - discrete transitions , progressive evolutionary changes , and different dynamic regimes .",
    "reviews of geophysics 46  ( 4 ) , rg4006 .",
    "hawthorne , j.  c. , rubin , a.  m. , 2013 .",
    "tidal modulation and back - propagating fronts in slow slip events simulated with a velocity - weakening to velocity - strengthening friction law .",
    "journal of geophysical research : solid earth 118  ( 3 ) , 12161239 .",
    "martins , j. , simes , f. m.  f. , 1995 .",
    "on some sources of instability / ill - posedness in elasticity problems with coulomb s friction . in : raous , m. , jean , m. , moreau , j. ( eds . ) , contact mechanics .",
    "springer us , pp .",
    "95106 .",
    "prakash , v. , clifton , r. , 1993 .",
    "time resolved dynamic friction measurememts in pressure - shear . in : ramesh , k. ( ed . ) , experimental techniques in the dynamics of deformable solids .",
    "american society of mechanical engineers . applied mechanics division , pp .",
    "prakash , v. , clifton , r.  j. , 1992 .",
    "pressure - shear plate impact measurement of dynamic friction for high speed machining applications . in : proceedings of the 7th international congress on experimental mechanics .",
    ". 811 .",
    "rice , j.  r. , lapusta , n. , ranjith , k. , 2001 . rate and state dependent friction and the stability of sliding between elastically deformable solids .",
    "journal of the mechanics and physics of solids 49  ( 9 ) , 18651898 .",
    "teufel , l.  w. , logan , j.  m. , 1978 .",
    "effect of displacement rate on the real area of contact and temperatures generated during frictional sliding of tennessee sandstone .",
    "pure and applied geophysics 116  ( 4 - 5 ) , 840865 .",
    "tonazzi , d. , massi , f. , culla , a. , baillet , l. , fregolent , a. , berthier , y. , 2013 .",
    "instability scenarios between elastic media under frictional contact . mechanical systems and",
    "signal processing 40  ( 2 ) , 754766 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> understanding the dynamic stability of bodies in frictional contact steadily sliding one over the other is of basic interest in various disciplines such as physics , solid mechanics , materials science and geophysics . </S>",
    "<S> here we report on a two - dimensional linear stability analysis of a deformable solid of a finite height @xmath0 , steadily sliding on top of a rigid solid within a generic rate - and - state friction type constitutive framework , fully accounting for elastodynamic effects . </S>",
    "<S> we derive the linear stability spectrum , quantifying the interplay between stabilization related to the frictional constitutive law and destabilization related both to the elastodynamic bi - material coupling between normal stress variations and interfacial slip , and to finite size effects . </S>",
    "<S> the stabilizing effects related to the frictional constitutive law include velocity - strengthening friction ( i.e.  an increase in frictional resistance with increasing slip velocity , both instantaneous and under steady - state conditions ) and a regularized response to normal stress variations . </S>",
    "<S> we first consider the small wave - number @xmath1 limit and demonstrate that homogeneous sliding in this case is universally unstable , independently of the details of the friction law . </S>",
    "<S> this universal instability is mediated by propagating waveguide - like modes , whose fastest growing mode is characterized by a wave - number satisfying @xmath2 and by a growth rate that scales with @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> we then consider the limit @xmath4 and derive the stability phase diagram in this case . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the dominant instability mode travels at nearly the dilatational wave - speed in the opposite direction to the sliding direction . in a certain parameter </S>",
    "<S> range this instability is manifested through unstable modes at all wave - numbers , yet the frictional response is shown to be mathematically well - posed . </S>",
    "<S> instability modes which travel at nearly the shear wave - speed in the sliding direction also exist in some range of physical parameters . </S>",
    "<S> previous results obtained in the quasi - static regime appear relevant only within a narrow region of the parameter space . finally , we show that a finite - time regularized response to normal stress variations , within the framework of generalized rate - and - state friction models , tends to promote stability . </S>",
    "<S> the relevance of our results to the rupture of bi - material interfaces is briefly discussed .    </S>",
    "<S> friction , bi - material interfaces , dynamics instabilities , rupture , elastodynamics </S>"
  ]
}