{
  "article_text": [
    "transiting extrasolar planets ( teps ) are key objects in determining physical ( masses and radii ) and atmospheric properties with high accuracy when their spectroscopic and photometric observations are combined .",
    "more than 1000 teps have been discovered so far in over 600 planetary systems , many of which do not have high - quality follow - up light curves . deriving absolute parameters of an exoplanet is a difficult task , which relies on high quality photometric and spectroscopic data . in order to achieve the desired photometric precision , a very high signal - to - noise ratio ( hereafter snr )",
    "is essential .",
    "defocused observations of bright targets is a well established technique based on collecting more photons and controlling the systematic affects arising mainly from imperfections of the detector and atmospheric seeing conditions @xcite .",
    "we aim to present the transit light curves of four selected exoplanets obtained by heavily defocusing the 1 m turkish telescope t100 located in tug with this contribution .",
    "we make use of the defocusing technique to achieve high snr by distributing the point spread function ( hereafter psf ) over many pixels which allow us to expose for longer durations , therefore diminish poisson noise since the large psfs are insensitive to focus or seeing changes @xcite .",
    "the systemmatic errors brought about by flat - fielding is also reduced by two orders of magnitude with this technique . + we performed our observations with the 1 meter turkish telescope , t100 , using an r@xmath0 filter in close accordance with the johnson - cousins photometric system .",
    "the weather conditions were suboptimal in the observations of hatnet project planets while we had extremely stable conditions during the observations of kelt-3b on the night of february 18 , 2014 letting us reach one of the best precision values ever acheived with this telescope in spite of a @xmath1  90% waning moon s phase .",
    "we give a log of our observations in table  [ tab : table1 ] .",
    "+       our results show that t100 has a decent potential for follow - up transit observations of exoplanet transits , with the defocusing method in particular , giving a sub - milimagnitude photometric precision .",
    "we aim to accumulate additional data in the future and we are willing to share the data presented here with other researchers for them to carry out a more detailed / robust analysis .",
    "we thank to tbitak for the partial support in using t100 telescope with project number 12ct100 - 378 . authors from ankara university also acknowledge the support by the research fund of ankara university ( bap ) through the project 13b4240006 .",
    "tch is supported via the korea young scientist research fellowship ( krcf ) carried out at the korea astronomy and space science institute ( kasi ) and acknowledges financial support under kasi grant number 2013 - 9 - 400 - 00 .",
    "batrk , . , hinse , t.  c. , zavci , i. , tezcan , c.  t. , enavci , h.  v. , burdanov , a. , yrkolu , o. , orhan , r. , selam , s.  o. , 2014 , coska , 43 , 402 popper , d. m. , etzel , p. b. , 1981 , aj , 86 , 102 southworth , j. , 2008 , mnras , 386 , 1644 southworth , j. , hinse , t.  c. , jrgensen , u.  g. , dominik , m. , and 18 coauthors , 2009 , mnras , 396 , 1023"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> it is crucial to determine masses and radii of extrasolar planets with high precision to have constraints on their chemical composition , internal structure and thereby their formation and evolution . in order to achieve this goal </S>",
    "<S> , we apply the defocus technique in the observations of selected planetary systems with the 1 m turkish telescope t100 in tbitak national observatory ( tug ) . with this contribution </S>",
    "<S> , we aim to present preliminary analyses of transit light curves of the selected exoplanets kelt-3b , hat - p-10b / wasp-11b , hat - p-20b , and hat - p-22b , observed with this technique using t100 . </S>"
  ]
}