{
  "article_text": [
    "plages are regions of the solar atmosphere with strong unipolar magnetic field .",
    "the interface region imaging spectrograph mission ( iris ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , provides new diagnostics for the properties of plage in the form of the  lines , the  subordinate uv lines , which are sensitive to heating in the low chromosphere @xcite ; and the line at 135.56@xmath1 nm that samples the chromosphere but forms under optically thin conditions @xcite . in this letter",
    "we investigate what the iris observations , together with observations from the swedish 1-m solar telescope ( sst ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the atmospheric imaging assembly ( aia ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on board the _ solar dynamics observatory ( sdo ) _ can tell us about the heating of the chromosphere and the neighboring regions ( transition region ( tr ) and corona ) .    understanding the physical mechanisms driving the formation of  is of great interest , not only for understanding the heating in the chromosphere , but also because these lines are used extensively as a proxy for the sun s cyclical variability over the entire uv spectral domain ( i.e. , the   index  ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "we used four data sets of active regions ( including sunspots , pores , and plage regions ) obtained with iris , one of which ( 2014 june 11 at 07:36 ut ) was coordinated with  and  spectral line scans from the crisp imaging spectrapolarimeter mounted on the sst .",
    "all iris raster scans were dense ( @xmath2 steps ) with a spatial sampling of @xmath3 along the slit ( unless otherwise noted ) .",
    "the 2014 june 11 data set focused on noaa active region ( ar ) 12080 and consists of 20 large dense rasters with 96 raster steps resulting in a field of view of 335@xmath4182  centered at @xmath5 .",
    "the exposure time per raster step was 4@xmath1s .",
    "the raster cadence was 516@xmath1s .",
    "the other iris data sets are similar large dense rasters with 400 raster steps and a resulting field of view of 140@xmath4182 .",
    "they have different exposure times , raster durations , and pointings of , respectively , 30s , 3.5 hr , @xmath6 ( noaa ar 12104 ) for the 2014 july 4 , 11:40 ut data set ; 8s , 1 hr , @xmath7 ( noaa ar 12139 ) for the 2014 august 16 , 21:17 ut data set ; and 30s , 3.5 hr , @xmath8 ( noaa ar 12187 ) for the 2014 october 18 , 06:45 ut data set . the last data set included spatial binning by two along the slit to improve the signal - to - noise of the weak  135.6@xmath1 nm line .",
    "all data sets were co - aligned with images in the 17.1 and 19.3 nm aia passbands .",
    "the  shows a wide range of profiles throughout ar 12104 ( fig .  [ fig : images ] ) . while the average profile of the field of view shows the typical central reversal ( although significantly reduced compared to the quiet sun ) , this average hides a wide range of types of profiles .",
    "quiet - sun regions in the vicinity of a plage ( which is bright in  wing ; fig .",
    "[ fig : images](a ) ) show deep central reversals with typically fainter  peaks ( for a definition of spectral features , see * ? ? ? * ) and mostly narrower profiles ( blue , cyan , and green profiles / locations in fig .  [",
    "fig : images](b),(e ) ) .",
    "sunspots ( green in fig .",
    "[ fig : images](a),(d ) ) and pores ( yellow in fig .",
    "[ fig : images](b),(e ) ) are fainter , much narrower than the average ar profile ( dashed lines in fig .  [",
    "fig : images](d)(f ) ) and typically show a single - peak profile .",
    "profiles in plage are very different from quiet - sun and sunspot / pore profiles : they are brighter , wider , and typically either single - peak ( yellow , fig .",
    "[ fig : images](a),(d ) ) , flat - topped ( blue , fig .  [ fig : images](a),(d ) ) or with a very small central reversal ( cyan , fig .  [ fig : images](a),(d ) ) .    figure  [ fig : images](c ) shows that  279.88 nm is indeed sensitive to the chromosphere with many morphological features similar to those seen in ( b ) . while some locations show this subordinate blend in emission ( light blue contours in ( c ) ; black square / profile in ( c)/(f ) ) , they are typically in sunspots , explosive events such as bombs @xcite or locations in the canopy that surround the plage .",
    "the subordinate blend almost never goes into emission in the plage regions .",
    "this appears to provide strong constraints on the chromospheric temperature profile ( see   [ sec : modeling ] ) .        while plage profiles without a central reversal are common , not all plage regions show such profiles . on large , active - region - size , spatial scales , most plage regions are bright in ( defined as average brightness in two fixed wavelength ranges to the blue / red of the line - center wavelength , as derived from the average profile ; fig  [ fig : correlation](a ) ) . on the same scales ,",
    "the  map ( brightness at the wavelength of line center of the average profile ; fig  [ fig : correlation](b ) ) shows more variability with some bright  regions associated with fainter  intensity , and others showing very bright .",
    "this is illustrated by panel ( c ) : for single - peak profiles intensity is larger than , so regions with many single - peak profiles appear dark in panel ( c ) . in summary , most plage regions are bright in , but only a subset show more single - peak profiles .",
    "comparison with the _",
    "sdo_/aia 19.3 passband ( dominated by , @xmath9 ; fig .",
    "[ fig : correlation](d ) ) shows that such single - peak regions have a spatial correlation , on large spatial scales , with regions of enhanced moss emission .",
    "this aia passband contains both bright coronal loops , dark absorbing features , and bright , low - lying moss ( e.g. , ( 100 , 95 ) ) .",
    "moss regions are the upper tr footpoints of high pressure coronal loops that are so hot that their tr emission is formed at 1 mk , so that the _ sdo_/aia 19.3@xmath1 nm emission originates from low - lying plasma that occurs at the same heights as chromospheric jets or dynamic fibrils @xcite that absorb some of the euv emission and give the mottled appearance typical for moss regions ( see , e.g. , bottom row of fig .",
    "[ fig : correlation ] ) .    the brightness of moss is thought to be a good proxy for and linearly related to the pressure in the overlying hot coronal loops @xcite .",
    "we thus find that the brightest moss regions , i.e. , locations with high coronal pressure , and thus tr at higher column mass , typically show more single - peak profiles .",
    "we also find correlations on the smallest observable spatial scales ( bottom row of fig .",
    "[ fig : correlation ] ) .",
    "we find that on sub - arcsecond scales the brightness in a small mossy plage region of ,  line center , and  are well correlated .",
    "this correspondence is in part due to the small dark features visible in all three lines that are associated with dynamic fibrils @xcite .",
    "this indicates that these diagnostics are all sensitive to upper chromospheric conditions , including velocity fields .",
    "the  brightness and  width have been proposed as a proxy for chromospheric temperatures in more quiescent conditions .",
    "this relationship seems doubtful in plage : ( 1 ) the  width is not well correlated with  brightness ( see the animation of fig .",
    "[ fig : correlation ] ) ; ( 2 )  is well correlated with  brightness , which as shown below appears to be more sensitive to the tr rather than chromospheric conditions .    at small spatial scales",
    ", there is also a good , though not perfect , correspondence with aia 19.3 nm moss emission , especially with dark moss features .",
    "this is perhaps not surprising as these features have been previously associated with bound - free absorption from dynamic fibrils @xcite . on the other hand , many of the bright moss locations have an equivalent bright region in ,  line center , and  line center .",
    "these findings expand on the previously found relationship between upper tr moss emission and  line center @xcite or lyman-@xmath0 emission @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig : raster ] shows various observables of ar 12187 .",
    "panel ( a ) shows context by showing the intensity at 280 nm , a wavelength between the  lines where the intensity is formed in the upper photosphere .",
    "magnetic areas are clearly seen as increased intensity , and there is a large plage area in the left part .",
    "we use this intensity to determine a mask for plage ( green contours ) .",
    "the width of the  ( panel ( b ) ) in the plage area is remarkably constant , around 7.8  with a small spread ( panel ( g ) ) , and is larger than in internetwork areas .",
    "the  is optically thin , and the width gives a direct measure of the width of the atomic absorption profile @xcite . at a temperature of 7kk the thermal 1/e width of the  is 2.7  leading to a mean non - thermal width of 7.3 .",
    "the wing width of the  ( panel ( c ) ) is similarly larger in the plage area than in non - plage areas with a mean 1/e width of 30   with a small spread ( g ) .",
    "the large wing width of the  comes from a large `` opacity broadening factor '' ( see @xcite for a discussion ) .",
    "the wings outside the  peaks sample the velocity field in a similar region as the .",
    "there is a clear correlation between the widths of the two lines but not one - to - one , showing that the  width is not only influenced by the velocity field in the chromosphere but also by a varying opacity broadening factor .",
    "the radiation temperature of the  peak intensity is around 6400  k in plage with a smaller spread compared with the full field of view ( panels ( d),(h ) ) .",
    "the plage area shows a mottled appearance with very little correlation with the intensity at 280@xmath1 nm on small scales .",
    "there is some correlation with the  width ( c ) .",
    "panel ( e ) shows how the central reversal of the  is filled in by showing the difference in radiation temperature between the peak intensity and the  intensity .",
    "single - peak profiles thus have a difference of zero .",
    "most of the central part of the plage has a very weak central reversal or single - peak profiles .",
    "these locations also have larger maximum intensity ( d ) and larger  width ( c ) .",
    "stronger self - reversals occur in small patches outside the central part of the plage .",
    "these patches are correlated with asymmetric peaks , larger peak intensity , and larger  peak separation ( panel ( f ) ) but smaller  width ( c ) .",
    "the  peak separation ( panel ( f ) ) shows a lot more structure than the  width ( c ) .",
    "the separation is large for the asymmetric profiles that have a rather deep central reversal ( bright patches in the non - central part of the plage in panel ( e ) ) .",
    "the  line profiles from plage regions show some common features : their emission cores are wider than in other atmospheric regions , they are brighter , and their central depressions are shallower or absent .    by trial and error we constructed a model that matches the observed average  profile reasonably well by simultaneously solving the non - lte problem for hydrogen , calcium , and magnesium , including charge conservation and enforcing hydrostatic equilibrium using the rh code @xcite . for hydrogen and calcium , we used the standard 5-level - plus - continuum  and  models that come with rh ; for magnesium , we used the 10-level - plus - continuum  atom from @xcite .",
    "the , , h&k and  lines were computed including partial redistribution ; all other lines were computed assuming complete redistribution .",
    "the model is constructed from the photosphere and tr of the one - dimensional static falp model @xcite .",
    "compared to falp , our model has an extended temperature minimum , a steeper chromospheric temperature rise , a constant chromospheric temperature plateau , and the tr located at a larger column mass .",
    "in addition , we replaced the falp non - constant microturbulence in the temperature plateau with a constant value . in figure",
    "[ fig : model1 ] and  [ fig : model2 ] we show the main parameters of our model and compare the synthetic core and the subordinate blend at 279.88  nm with the average observed plage spectrum .",
    "we do not propose this model as a realistic model of the atmospheric structure of plage ; it is a numerical experiment exploring the constraints that the  profiles set on the structure of plage chromospheres .",
    "we therefore explored the sensitivity of the  lines to variations of our model by varying the column mass of the tr ( panels ( a)(c ) in figure  [ fig : model1 ] ) , the temperature of the chromospheric plateau ( panels ( d)(f ) in figure  [ fig : model1 ] ) , the microturbulence in the chromospheric plateau ( panels ( a)(c ) in figure  [ fig : model2 ] ) , and the column mass of the chromospheric temperature rise ( panels ( d)(f ) in figure  [ fig : model2 ] ) .",
    "varying the location in column mass of the tr has a large effect on  and : the emission peaks get higher , and the  minimum fills up as the tr is moved toward larger column mass , but even the best - fit model still has some central reversal .",
    "the subordinate blend gets shallower .",
    "the temperature of the chromospheric plateau has a significant effect on the  core - width : larger temperatures mean larger widths . for temperatures above 6.5  kk the  intensity increases .",
    "the subordinate blend reacts strongly to changes in temperature . for temperatures below 6.5  kk ,",
    "it is in absorption ; for higher temperatures , it gets marked emission peaks .",
    "varying the microturbulence in the chromospheric temperature plateau changes the width of the , and the width of the absorption line caused by the uv subordinate transitions .            changing the location of the chromospheric temperature rise has two effects .",
    "first , the deeper in the atmosphere it is located , the wider is the .",
    "second , deeply located temperature rises lead to emission in the wings of the subordinate blend .",
    "our results on the peculiar  found in plage provide an intriguing picture of heating in the plage chromosphere and hotter layers above .",
    "our numerical experiments suggest that single - peaked or flat - topped profiles found in plage arise naturally if the chromosphere is hot and dense , thus ensuring coupling of the source function to the temperature , and if the column mass of the tr is high so that  and  form at the base of the tr .",
    "the latter occurs naturally at the footpoints of hot , dense coronal loops in which a strong thermal conductive flux pushes the tr to high column mass .",
    "this scenario is supported by the observed large - scale correlation between moss brightness ( a proxy for coronal pressure ) and filled - in profiles with very little or absent self - reversal .",
    "the correlation is not perfect since it depends on both chromospheric and coronal conditions .",
    "for example , cooler ( @xmath10 mk ) but dense coronal loops can also have high coronal pressures ( and thus tr at high column mass ) , yet they would lack signatures of aia 19.3 nm `` moss '' .",
    "in addition , locations with tr at high column mass may occur even for a chromosphere that is lower density or cooler ( leading to centrally reversed profiles ) . despite these caveats ,",
    "we often do find a reasonable correlation on small , arcsecond spatial scales between  brightness and upper tr moss emission . at these small scales ,",
    "the  width does not correlate with  brightness , but the  brightness does .",
    "this is unlike the quiet - sun .",
    "we find that , contrary to quiet sun profiles @xcite , the  and properties in plage are sensitive to conditions higher up , at the very top of the chromosphere .",
    "the  sensitivity to chromospheric conditions can be found in the width of the wing , the ( lack of ) emission of the subordinate blend at 279.88 nm and the  peak separation . compared to quiet sun ,",
    "the  width is significantly higher ( but remarkably constant around @xmath11  ) in plage regions .",
    "comparison with non - thermal line broadening of the shows that it is smaller than 10  and that there is a general correspondence on large spatial scales , but not on small spatial scales .",
    "this suggests that both increased microturbulence as well as so - called opacity broadening must play a role in the large wing widths of .",
    "the opacity broadening comes about because  is an optically thick line , with the peak separation of  strongly influenced by the chromospheric column mass .",
    "there is a significant sensitivity of the wing width to chromospheric temperatures ( as well as microturbulence ) .",
    "the combination of these diagnostics with our numerical experiments indicates that the chromospheric temperatures in plage are remarkably constant and likely of the order of 6,000 - 6,500 k. this is compatible with the observed radiation temperatures of , and further confirmed by the fact that the subordinate blend at 279.88 nm is rarely found to be in emission , something that would be expected for higher temperatures .",
    "the nature of the significant microturbulence in plage remains unknown , but clearly the presence of strong shocks ( driving dynamic fibrils and affecting line broadening ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , torsional motions @xcite in and around plage , and alfvn wave turbulence @xcite are candidates .",
    "currently ongoing numerical experiments suggest that the observed  in plage can only be explained by the combination of a tr at high column mass ( i.e. , hot , dense corona above ) as well as strong chromospheric heating . without the latter , densities at elevated chromospheric temperatures would be lower , thus leading to narrower profiles and a lack of filled - in .",
    "more work is required to better understand the coupling between chromospheric and coronal conditions in plage , as well as the apparent difficulty of reconciling the plage atmosphere considered here with observations in  and , which may necessitate models with multiple atmospheric components , perhaps similar to those found from modeling of and @xcite .",
    "this research has received funding from the european research council ( fp7/2007 - 2013)/erc grant agreement no .  291058 , the research council of norway , the swedish knut and alice wallenberg foundation , and nasa contract nng09fa40c ( iris ) , and has benefited from discussions at the international space science institute ( issi ) .",
    "thanks to luc rouppe van der voort for support with the sst observations .",
    "iris is a nasa small explorer developed and operated by lmsal with mission operations executed at nasa ames and major contributions to downlink communications funded by esa and the norwegian space centre .",
    "the swedish 1-m solar telescope is operated by the institute for solar physics of stockholm university in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .                                                  , g.  b. , bjelksjo , k. , korhonen , t.  k. , lindberg , b. , & petterson , b. 2003 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , vol .",
    "4853 , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , ed .",
    "s.  l. keil & s.  v. avakyan , 341350"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze observations from the interface region imaging spectrograph ( iris ) of the , the  uv subordinate lines , and the  to better understand the solar plage chromosphere . </S>",
    "<S> we also make comparisons with observations from the swedish 1-m solar telescope ( sst ) of the h@xmath0 line , the 8542 line and _ solar dynamics observatory_/atmospheric imaging assembly observations of the coronal 19.3@xmath1 nm line . to understand the observed  profiles , we compare these observations to the results of numerical experiments . </S>",
    "<S> the single - peaked or flat - topped  found in plage imply a transition region at a high column mass and a hot and dense chromosphere of about 6500 k. this scenario is supported by the observed large - scale correlation between moss brightness and filled - in profiles with very little or absent self - reversal . </S>",
    "<S> the large wing width found in plage also implies a hot and dense chromosphere with a steep chromospheric temperature rise . </S>",
    "<S> the absence of emission in the  subordinate lines constrain the chromospheric temperature and the height of the temperature rise while the width of the  sets a limit to the non - thermal velocities to around 7 . </S>"
  ]
}