{
  "article_text": [
    "many researchers have tried to understand the connection between spear phishing adversaries and their targets of interest .",
    "van nguyen of the australian government department of defense provided a literature survey outlining the many machine - learning techniques that could be used to identify and characterize an adversary @xcite .",
    "those techniques include the latent semantic analysis ( lsa ) applied in our own effort .",
    "while this reference is an exceptional summary of the tools and approaches best suited for characterization , it does not provide examples of the techniques in practice .",
    "it is commonly understood that social media sites such as facebook , twitter , and linkedin can provide an adversary a wealth of information on a target s work interests and expertise .",
    "as such , many researchers have examined whether there are any connections between a target s online presence and the phishing emails he or she received .",
    "dewan et al .",
    "@xcite studied a set of over 4,000 targeted and 9,000 non - targeted emails and concluded that the information in the targets linkedin profiles did not indicate whether the emails they received were spear phishing attempts .",
    "however , dewan et al . only analyzed the word and character counts of the linkedin profiles , ignoring the semantic information they provide . in our work , we focus on a semantic analysis of the targets linkedin profiles in order to better understand how their topical information matches that of the phishing emails .",
    "similar topical analyses were performed by le blond et al .",
    "@xcite and debarr et al .",
    "when examining nearly 1,500 emails involved in a politically sensitive attack , le blond et al . compared the roles and identies of the phishers to those of the targets .",
    "the targets characteristics were pulled from various sources of social media data .",
    "this work succeeded in identifying several correlations between the adversaries and targets , but the characterizations of both sides were performed by manually examining all available text data and assigning individuals to pre - defined groups .",
    "our analysis , in contrast , compares the targets and adversaries automatically , which is necessary if our techniques are to be of any use to organizations facing incredible volumes of spear phishing attempts . in their work ,",
    "debarr et al .",
    "successfully applied nlp methods similar to our own to identify spear phishing emails . however , their comparison was only between their phishing emails of interest and a previously compiled training set of known spear phishing emails .",
    "this provides no measure of how well - matched the phishing emails were to their recipients . by comparing the phishing emails to the targets social media profiles , we are able to determine not only the presence of a spear phishing threat , but the degree of reconnaissance performed by the adversaries .    to the best of the authors knowledge ,",
    "our work in this paper is the first to quantitatively characterize how much effort adversaries devoted to researching their potential victims .",
    "we use well - established spear phishing analysis techniques , such as lsa and characterizing targets via their social media profiles . while our data set is not as extensive as many other analyses in this field , we provide a crucial first step towards measuring spear phishers interest in an organization and its employees , which will certainly be of use to companies and institutions facing today s attacks with increased focus on in - depth reconnaissance @xcite .",
    "there are three data corpora used in this analysis : an adversary dataset comprised of cv attachments to the phishing emails ; a target dataset comprised of linkedin @xcite profile information harvested on the intended victims at mit lincoln laboratory ; and a benchmark dataset downloaded from http://indeed.com @xcite , used to validate the interpretation of our results .",
    "our sample of email attacks comprises 647 messages delivered between august 2013 and july 2014 .",
    "these attacks were sent from foreign ip address space , and each message was sent from one of 60 unique email accounts .",
    "a total of 274 individuals in our organization were contacted . in our sample ,",
    "596 emails connected a unique phisher / recipient pair and 51 were repeated messages .",
    "this specific adversarial group was sending attacks before august 2013 and is still active at the time of this writing .",
    "these messages were initially brought to our attention due to a suspicious web bug included in many of the emails .",
    "each phishing email is disguised as a job application sent by a foreign research scientist .",
    "the salutations of the emails explicitly address the phishing target by name , but there is no further mention of the target or lincoln laboratory in the body text . while the messages are often written in broken english , each individual seems to have a unique writing style and cites specific research experiences .    attached to each email",
    "is a cv ( formatted as a pdf ) outlining the educational and research experiences of the supposed applicants .",
    "though two of the phishing identities cvs were corrupted and unreadable , the remaining 58 all had unique content , formatting styles , and academic fields of focus .",
    "we extracted the plain text of the documents using the apache tika @xcite parsing software .",
    "we cross - referenced the citations listed in these cvs against online databases and verified that the papers were actually published by the specified authors . furthermore",
    ", the research experiences discussed in the cvs match those discussed within the body of the email . although the email address from which the attack was sent does not match the address listed in any of the cvs , some attempt is made to make the email look legitimate ; the email handle is usually some version of the supposed job candidate s name .",
    "given the apparent legitimacy of the candidates themselves , we infer that an adversary is harvesting cvs and cover letters from research experts without their knowledge , adding easily faked salutations addressed to specific individuals , and sending phishing attacks from falsified email addresses .",
    "the data used in our analysis are simply the words used within these cvs .",
    "if some adversarial party has harvested a large , varied corpus of professional cvs and cover letters , they could feasibly attack a phishing target under the guise of an individual who shares the target s research interests and experiences .",
    "the adversary and target would thus be identified as similar if their respective research profiles contain many of the same words or phrases .",
    "we convert the cvs ( and the target profiles discussed in the following section ) into  bag - of - words \" models , wherein a document is characterized only by the presence or absence of terms from a vocabulary , not by the organization of those terms .      to determine if the adversaries were actively researching their targets , we first examined the demographics of the phishing recipients .",
    "mit lincoln laboratory is divided into 9 distinct groups , each of which has its own field of expertise .",
    "figure [ fig : pie ] illustrates that most groups were targeted roughly evenly by the adversary ( group names have been anonymized for security reasons ) .",
    "group i received only 0.6% of the emails because it only contains a few members .",
    "however , groups g and h are disproportionately under - represented for reasons we have not yet uncovered .",
    "figure [ fig : jobs ] illustrates how the targets are distributed by job role and hierarchical position (  research 1 \" has fewer responsibilities than  research 2 \" , and so on ) .",
    "we see that all of the targets worked as either technical research staff or as group leaders .",
    "none of the targets were employed as secretaries , information technology professionals , or members of the security team .",
    "this is especially unusual given the recent findings of the symantec corporation s internet security threat report : 39% of employees who received a spear phishing email in 2014 were either interns or support staff @xcite .",
    "either the adversary s source of lincoln emails contained exclusively technical personnel , or the adversary performed sufficient background research on their targets to determine whether or not they played a research role within the organization .    _",
    ", scaledwidth=50.0% ]    our sample of phishing cvs provides us with textual information highlighting the interests and experiences of a group of individuals .",
    "if the research background of the bait matches that of the targets , we conclude that this foreign group is performing reconnaissance on members of our organization , and their attacks constitute a spear phishing campaign . to characterize the threat",
    ", we require a text - based research profile on each of the targets of this campaign , as well as some metric for comparing such a profile against a phishing cv and quantifying their similarity .",
    "because we did not have access to a cv for each of the 274 attack recipients , we built our sample of research profiles using publicly available information on the internet .",
    "this method is not without downfalls , as searching for and gathering this information was a time - consuming manual process . the clear advantage of this approach , however , is that it prohibits us from using any information which the adversaries can not access , so our profiles are similar to what the adversaries themselves may have gathered .",
    "while we were able to identify several online sources of research summaries ( such as personal websites and employee web pages ) , it was vital that the profiles in our sample be uniformly formatted .",
    "otherwise , our methods prioritize similarity of data source over similarity of research interests , an artifact that arises because the vocabularies used by different sources all contain uniquely identifiable traits .",
    "we determined that the research profiles provided by the career networking website linkedin @xcite provided the most detailed information on the largest number of targets . much like a cv , linked - in profiles often list an individual s educational history , work experience , skills , and sometimes publications .",
    "after removing those which were too sparse to analyze , our final sample of research profiles contained the copied text of the linkedin pages for 100 of the 274 phishing targets .",
    "it is critical that we benchmark the nlp characterization techniques used in our analysis against a data set with known topical relationships . to perform benchmark analyses",
    ", we obtained a marked sample of cv data from the rsum database of http://indeed.com @xcite .",
    "these cvs were divided into three career categories : postdoctoral researchers ( from any field ) , managers , and software engineers .",
    "we repeat every analytic test on this benchmark dataset to help interpret the significance of our findings about the phishing campaign .",
    "in this section we investigate the phishing threat posed by this campaign using well - known nlp techniques .",
    "we have relied heavily on the tools provided in the scikit - learn python package @xcite for our analysis .",
    "we need a method of quantifying the similarity between two documents to determine whether the adversaries are selectively matching their cvs to the research backgrounds of their targets . one common method of comparing documents in natural language processing is known as an _ n - gram model_. an n - gram is defined as a sequence of @xmath1 consecutive words within a document . if a corpus of documents contains @xmath2 unique n - grams , then an n - gram model would represent each individual document as a vector of length @xmath2 .",
    "each element of the vector represents a different n - gram , and the value of the element is a weight which represents how strongly that n - gram characterizes the document .     for the blue histogram and @xmath3 for the red , indicating that the email pairs share significantly more similarities than expected from a random spamming attack .",
    "[ fig : twohist]_,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    for our analysis , we limit the value of @xmath1 for our n - grams to 1 , 2 , or 3 ( unigrams , bigrams , and trigrams ) and omit a pre - defined list of extremely common terms known as _ stop words_. if our document was the simple sentence  the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog , \" we would identify the words  the \" and  over \" as stop words , and our list of bigrams would be  quick brown , \"  brown fox , \"  fox jumped , \"  jumped lazy , \" and  lazy dog . \"    to quantify the weight of each n - gram , we use the _ term frequency - inverse document frequency _ value , or _ tf - idf _ @xcite .",
    "if our corpus contains @xmath4 documents and @xmath2 n - grams , the tf - idf n - gram model is best represented as an @xmath5 matrix where the value of element ( @xmath6,@xmath7 ) is @xmath8 where tf@xmath9 is the term frequency of the @xmath10 n - gram within the @xmath11 document and @xmath12 is the number of documents within the corpus which contain the @xmath10 n - gram .",
    "while some tf - idf models define tf@xmath9 as the number of times n - gram @xmath7 appears in document @xmath6 , we restrict the term frequency to only boolean values . if document @xmath6 contains n - gram @xmath7 , then tf@xmath13 ; otherwise , tf@xmath9=0 .",
    "our boolean approach is recommended for a corpus containing relatively short documents , such as those in our corpus of cvs and research profiles @xcite .",
    "the second factor in equation  [ eqn : tfidf ] is known as the _ inverse document frequency _ , or idf@xmath14 . because this factor increases as @xmath12 decreases",
    ", n - grams which appear within relatively few documents in our corpus will have large tf - idf weights .",
    "an underlying assumption of our n - gram model , therefore , is that a document is best characterized by its most uncommon words .",
    "if a word appears in only a few documents of our corpus , we would expect that the individuals described by those documents must have some similar trait which distinguishes them from the rest of the population .",
    "the @xmath5 tf - idf matrix characterizes the documents of the corpus , but we require a metric to quantify the similarity between any two individual documents .",
    "two @xmath2-element column vectors from the matrix , @xmath15 and @xmath16 , can be extracted to form feature vectors that describe documents @xmath17 and @xmath18 .",
    "the similarity between the two documents is @xmath19 if two documents are very similar , we expect they share a large number of n - grams in common , and the value of their similarity will be near 1",
    ". two very dissimilar documents will contain mostly separate sets of n - grams , and their similarity will be approximately 0 . geometrically , the similarity between two documents is the cosine of the interior angle between their two feature vectors in the @xmath2-dimensional tf - idf space .    .",
    "each curve is a cumulative probability distribution , and the black arrow marks their supremum difference of 0.224 , which corresponds to a probability of @xmath200.01% that the set of emails is a random sample of the set of all possible phisher / target pairs .",
    "[ fig : kstest]_,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    to determine if the adversary is conducting a spear phishing campaign , we study certain distributions of these similarity values .",
    "we compare two cases : the distribution of similarity values arising from the phishing campaign , and the distribution we would expect if cvs were sent to random recipients .",
    "we generate the latter distribution by computing the similarity between all possible phisher / recipient pairings .",
    "since we have 58 adversary cvs and 100 target research profiles , we can calculate 5800 similarity values for this set .",
    "the distribution of those values is shown in figure  [ fig : twohist ] as the blue histogram .",
    "if the adversary were haphazardly spamming our organization with emails , they would effectively select a random subset of these 5800 possible pairs , and the resulting similarity distribution would be drawn from the blue histogram .",
    "in contrast , the translucent red histogram in figure  [ fig : twohist ] shows the distribution recovered when each adversary persona is paired only with the targets to whom he sent an email . from the phishing identities and subset of targets with identifying documentation , we are able to calculate the similarities for 252 of these email pairs .",
    "it is immediately clear in figure  [ fig : twohist ] that the distribution of email pairs is skewed towards higher values than the distribution of all possible pairs .",
    "the median and standard deviation of the mean for the all - pair distribution is @xmath21 , while those values for the email distribution are @xmath3 .     for the gray histogram and @xmath22 for the red .",
    "[ fig : benchhist]_,scaledwidth=50.0% ]    to confirm that the set of email pairs is not consistent with random spamming , we compared our observed and random email similarity distributions using a two - sample kolmogorov - smirnov test .",
    "the null hypothesis of this test is that two probability distributions were derived from the same distribution function .",
    "the k - s statistic ( the supremum difference between two cumulative probability functions , as illustrated in figure   [ fig : kstest ] ) for our two sets was 0.224 , which allows us to reject the null hypothesis with a @xmath23-value less than @xmath24 .    based on this result , we are certain that the adversaries did not randomly match their phishing cvs to their targets .",
    "this implies they were instead profiling members of our institution and conducting a spear phishing campaign . but how in - depth was their reconnaissance , and how effectively were the adversaries able to match their targets research interests with the bait ? to gain insight into these questions , we repeated our similarity analysis on the indeed.com benchmark dataset .",
    "the grey histogram in figure  [ fig : benchhist ] is the distribution of similarity values arising from an all - to - all comparison of every document in the benchmark corpus , whereas the red histogram is the distribution of similarity values arising only from pairs of software engineers .",
    "just as in the case of the email campaign , the distribution of similarity values in the matched sample is skewed high compared to the random sample . the median and standard deviation of the mean for the all - pair distribution is @xmath25 , while those values for the email distribution are @xmath26 .    in both the benchmark case and the case of the phishing campaign ,",
    "the median similarity of the observed pairings is significantly higher than expected for random selections .",
    "however , it is clear that the separation between our observed email distribution and the random spamming distribution ( figure  [ fig : twohist ] ) is much less pronounced than the separation between the software engineer distribution and the all - career distribution ( figure  [ fig : benchhist ] ) .",
    "we could say that the email campaign separation is roughly @xmath27 standard deviations , while the benchmark separation is @xmath28 standard deviations .",
    "future application of our similarity analysis to a wide variety of spear phishing and spam campaigns could possibly define a formal metric from these measurements , but for now we simply state that the degree of reconnaissance in our case study seems to be low .",
    "we can further characterize the adversaries reconnaissance efforts by analyzing instances when a single cv was sent to a single target . for the set of all recipients who received only one email ,",
    "the median similarity was @xmath29 with standard deviation of the mean @xmath30 .",
    "for the set of all phishers who sent only one email the median similarity value was @xmath31 with standard deviation @xmath32 . note that some of these phishers could have sent more than one email , but we lack any documentation on their other recipients . in general , these singleton instances appear to be significantly more targeted than the pairings with multiple senders or recipients .",
    "given that we already suspect the adversaries profiling efforts as a whole were cursory , it is possible that their reconaissance efforts were focused on only a few specific individuals .    the results of this section strongly indicate that the adversary did not randomly spam laboratory employees with emails . instead , we have found conclusive evidence that they have selected at least a portion of their phisher / target pairs on the basis of similar research or career experiences .",
    "we deduce that the adversaries are conducting reconnaissance on employees of mit lincoln laboratory , though our characterizaion of the reconnaissance suggests a limited profiling effort .      after discovering that our adversaries are conducting a spear phishing campaign against our organization",
    ", we wanted to learn more about how they selected their targets .",
    "such information could help reveal what sort of reconnaissance this foreign group is conducting .",
    "for instance , we could imagine a scenario in which one phishing identity is matched to a sub - group of targets , all of whom are semantically similar .",
    "this could indicate the adversaries are less interested in attacking specific individuals and more interested in reaching any member of a specific research group .",
    "alternatively , the adversaries could identify a single target of interest and contact that individual with many phishing identities who share his or her background .",
    "this may imply the adversaries are conducting in - depth research on a few individuals in our organization , or perhaps that the phishing identities are sorted into pre - determined attack groups .",
    "_ ]    since each row of the tf - idf matrix represents a separate n - gram , and because most n - grams will not appear in any given document , our matrix has over 100,000 rows and contains mostly zeroes .",
    "we need to reduce the rank of our tf - idf matrix to a dimensional space we can visualize , to determine if the phishing cvs and the target profiles are topically clustered .",
    "this will indicate whether the scenarios discussed above apply to our problem .",
    "we achieve this approximation using truncated singular value decomposition ( svd ) @xcite .",
    "svd is a technique by which an @xmath33 matrix @xmath34 is factored as @xmath35 , where @xmath36 and @xmath37 are unitary matrices and @xmath38 is an @xmath33 rectangular diagonal matrix .",
    "the diagonal values of @xmath38 , conventionally ordered from greatest to least , are non - negative real numbers known as singular values . according the the eckart - young theorem @xcite , the closest possible @xmath7-rank approximation to @xmath39 can be calculated by using only the @xmath7 columns of @xmath36 and @xmath7 rows of @xmath37 corresponding to the @xmath7 greatest singular values , yielding the matrix @xmath40 .",
    "this process is known as truncated svd , and the application of truncated svd upon a tf - idf matrix is known as _ latent semantic analysis _ ( lsa ) @xcite .    before applying this method to analyze the phishing campaign",
    ", we tested how effectively lsa could separate a corpus of cvs into topical clusters . to perform this benchmark",
    ", we used the marked sample of cv data from http://indeed.com @xcite , divided into three categories : postdocs , managers and software engineers .",
    "figure [ fig : lsademo ] demonstrates that cvs with a known relationship are significantly clustered in at least one projection onto the singular vectors ( principle components or pcs ) .    returning to the analysis of the phishing campaign , after performing lsa with @xmath41 on our tf - idf matrix",
    "we obtain a matrix with 158 columns ( one for each phishing cv and target research profile ) and 100 rows .",
    "each row is now a principal component vector which represents a linear combination of n - grams .",
    "for instance , the first component ( pc1 ) assigns strong negative weights to n - grams such as  lincoln laboratory \" and  greater boston area \" and strong positive weights to terms such as  curriculum vitae \" and the name of the phishing group s home country . as a result ,",
    "pc1 efficiently groups documents into adversary and target groups . by plotting two principal components against each other",
    ", we can visualize how each of the 158 documents are related in that two - dimensional cross - section of semantic space .",
    "if any given group of documents share strong similarities , they will tend to form clusters in at least some of these plots .",
    "in figures [ fig : lsaphish ] and [ fig : lsarecip ] , we plot pc5 against pc3 .",
    "we selected this subspace because it spanned a semantically interesting subset of terms . for pc3 ,",
    "strong negative weight is assigned to n - grams such as  artificial intelligence , \"  machine learning , \" and  statistical , \" while strong positive weight is given to terms like  optics , \"  molecular , \" and  quantum . \"",
    "so among other things pc3 seems to distinguish computer science from physics .",
    "likewise pc5 positively weights the terms  computer science \" and  national laboratory research \" and negatively weights  radar \" and  sensor . \"",
    "it s important to note , however , that these are just a few example terms , and each principle component is actually a mixture of several different research areas .",
    "each data point in figures [ fig : lsaphish ] and [ fig : lsarecip ] represents a single document , with orange or red markers for phishing cvs and blue or cyan markers for target profiles . each subplot in figure [ fig : lsaphish ] highlights one of the six targets who received the largest number of phishing emails ( blue marker ) and the group of phishing cvs with which they were targeted ( red markers ) . figure [ fig : lsarecip ] uses the same highlighting scheme to show the 6 phishing cvs which were most frequently sent out and the targets who received them .",
    "we see in figure [ fig : lsarecip ] that the targets of these high - volume phishers seem to be randomly scattered about this principal component space with no apparent clustering . on the other hand , the phishing groups targeting single individuals in each subplot of figure [ fig : lsaphish ] tend to form tight clusters .",
    "most notably , the tail of phishing cv data points that stretches out towards positive values of pc3  _ away _ from the targets  does not include a single red data point in any plot .",
    "these clustering observations are further supported by figures [ fig : whiskers1 ] and [ fig : whiskers2 ] , where we focus on one principal component at a time .",
    "the dashed horizontal line in each plot represents the median pc value of _ all _ phishing cvs ( orange ) or _ all _ target profiles ( cyan ) .",
    "the shaded areas around the dashed lines show the standared error of the mean . each data point and",
    "error bar shows the median and standard error of the mean for the phishing groups attacking a single target ( red ) or the group of recipients of a single phisher ( blue ) . in decreasing order from left to right ,",
    "the data points represent the twelve largest groups attacking one recipient or the twelve largest target groups attacked by a single phisher . for both pc3 and pc5 in figure [ fig : whiskers2 ] , we see that no points are significantly removed from the population median , and their errors are similar to or larger than the population error .",
    "these observations are in agreement with the lack of clustering seen in figure [ fig : lsarecip ] .",
    "however , the data points in figure [ fig : whiskers1 ] show systematic removal from the population median , often with small deviations in pc3 .",
    "the groups of red data points in figure [ fig : lsaphish ] are indeed forming clusters which are not representative samples of the population .",
    "these findings reveal the adversaries general plan of attack : any single phisher may attack a large number of unrelated targets by itself , but groups of phishing cvs are often selected to make a coordinated attack on a target with whom they share greater - than - average similarity",
    ". this approach could be effective if the adversaries plan is to maximize the probability that a specific target will eventually respond to a message .",
    "the clustering observed in pc3 and pc5 is not observed in all principal components , which is in agreement with figure [ fig : twohist ] s demonstration that even the most similar phisher / target pairs are still quite different .",
    "nonetheless , the clustering evident in figure [ fig : lsaphish ] is apparently sufficient to explain the statistically significant similarity distribution separations we found in the previous section .",
    "through the application of natural language processing , we successfully identified and characterized a particular spear phishing campaign against our organization .",
    "our data sample comprised a set of 58 curriculum vitae received from the adversary , and the text from linked - in profiles belonging to 100 of the targeted individuals .",
    "we demonstrated with a high degree of statistical certainty ( @xmath0 ) that the phishing identities used to contact the targets were , on average , more similar to their respective recipients than expected if the pairings were randomly chosen .",
    "we found that the median of the email pair similarities was removed from the median of all - possible - pair similarities by 6.75 standard deviations , which is relatively minor compared to our benchmark analysis ( 28.2 standard deviations ) , implying the adversary s reconnaissance capabilities were somewhat limited .",
    "finally , we applied latent semantic analysis to explore the clustering of the phishing identities and their targets in one principal component subspace , finding clear evidence that individual recipients were often contacted by a sub - group of semantically similar attackers .",
    "our analysis has revealed that an adversarial group is performing reconnaissance on our colleagues , and we have a basic understanding of this phishing group s plan of attack .",
    "however , our work could be improved upon in many aspects .",
    "first , our data sample could be expanded , both by retrieving phishing cvs from earlier time periods and by obtaining research profiles for more of the targets .",
    "furthermore , we would like to investigate further to determine if the adversaries have a specific algorithm for selecting which targets to contact using which identities .",
    "we may be able to achieve this by analyzing if and how the relationships between adversary and target change over time and across principal component space . repeating our analysis over time",
    "could also detect if the adversary s interest is escalating , as indicated by increasing similarity between the target profiles and the bait .",
    "nonetheless , our work provides the first quantitative characterization of a spear phishing adversary s reconnaissance efforts .",
    "our tools are highly automated , and none of our techniques or methods were exclusively applicable to our case study . as long as an analyst is able to obtain text - based profiles characterizing both the phishing identities and their targets ,",
    "this similarity analysis and latent semantic analysis could be applied to any spear phishing problem to identify the adversaries intent and capabilities .",
    "the authors wish to thank kara greenfield , bill campbell , robert hall , and sean cavanaugh for their sage advice and suggestions .",
    "this work is sponsored by the assistant secretary of defense for research & engineering under air force contract # fa8721 - 05-c-0002 .",
    "opinions , interpretations , conclusions and recommendations are those of the authors and are not necessarily endorsed by the united states government .",
    "p.  kumaraguru , s.  sheng , a.  acquisti , l.  f. cranor , and j.  hong , `` lessons from a real world evaluation of anti - phishing training , '' in _ ecrime researchers summit , 2008_.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emieee , 2008 , pp .",
    "m.  song , j.  seo , and k.  lee , `` study on the effectiveness of the security countermeasures against spear phishing , '' in _",
    "information security applications_.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emspringer , 2014 , pp .",
    "394404 .",
    "p.  dewan , a.  kashyap , and p.  kumaraguru , `` analyzing social and stylometric features to identify spear phishing emails , '' in _ electronic crime research ( ecrime ) , 2014 apwg symposium on_.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emieee , 2014 , pp .",
    "s.  le  blond , a.  uritesc , c.  gilbert , z.  l. chua , p.  saxena , and e.  kirda , `` a look at targeted attacks through the lense of an ngo , '' in _ proceedings of the 23rd usenix conference on security symposium_.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emusenix association , 2014 , pp .",
    "543558 .",
    "d.  debarr , v.  ramanathan , and h.  wechsler , `` phishing detection using traffic behavior , spectral clustering , and random forests , '' in _ intelligence and security informatics ( isi ) , 2013 ieee international conference on_. 1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emieee , 2013 , pp .",
    "6772 .",
    "f.  pedregosa , g.  varoquaux , a.  gramfort , v.  michel , b.  thirion , o.  grisel , m.  blondel , p.  prettenhofer , r.  weiss , v.  dubourg , j.  vanderplas , a.  passos , d.  cournapeau , m.  brucher , m.  perrot , and e.  duchesnay , `` scikit - learn : machine learning in python , '' _ journal of machine learning research _ , vol .  12 , pp .",
    "28252830 , 2011 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> spear phishing is a widespread concern in the modern network security landscape , but there are few metrics that measure the extent to which reconnaissance is performed on phishing targets . </S>",
    "<S> spear phishing emails closely match the expectations of the recipient , based on details of their experiences and interests , making them a popular propagation vector for harmful malware . in this work we use natural language processing techniques to investigate a specific real - world phishing campaign and quantify attributes that indicate a targeted spear phishing attack . </S>",
    "<S> our phishing campaign data sample comprises 596 emails  all containing a web bug and a curriculum vitae ( cv ) pdf attachment  sent to our institution by a foreign ip space . </S>",
    "<S> the campaign was found to exclusively target specific demographics within our institution . performing a semantic similarity analysis between the senders cv attachments and the recipients linkedin profiles , we conclude with high statistical certainty ( @xmath0 ) that the attachments contain targeted rather than randomly selected material . </S>",
    "<S> latent semantic analysis further demonstrates that individuals who were a primary focus of the campaign received cvs that are highly topically clustered . </S>",
    "<S> these findings differentiate this campaign from one that leverages random spam .    </S>",
    "<S> spear phishing has grown to be the predominant vector used to compromise an organization @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> federally funded research and development centers ( ffrdcs ) and university affiliated research centers ( uarcs ) have seen an uptick in a specific form of phishing attempt in which rsums or curriculum vitae ( cvs ) are sent directly to researchers by supposed job candidates . over the last few years mit </S>",
    "<S> lincoln laboratory has become interested in one such campaign originating from a foreign ip space . on the surface , these messages are job applications from seemingly distinguished researchers , and each email contains a cover letter and cv . while it is certainly unusual that our institution - which hires exclusively us citizens - would receive applications en masse from a foreign source , the main point of concern in these emails is a 1-pixel image containing a malicious link . </S>",
    "<S> this web bug suggests the individual or group behind these messages is acting in a purposefully adversarial manner .    </S>",
    "<S> if these emails are random spam - that is , if messages are sent randomly to targets without forethought - the situation poses little threat . </S>",
    "<S> however , the adversary may be directing specific cvs to specific recipients in order to maximize the probability that the target will respond to the message . </S>",
    "<S> if our organization is the target of such a spear phishing campaign , it implies the adversary is conducting reconnaissance on our colleagues in order to determine their research backgrounds or interests . </S>",
    "<S> such foreign interest in the employees of an ffrdc constitutes a security threat and merits further investigation .    according to a recent security report published by symantec corporation , </S>",
    "<S> the number of observed spear phishing campaigns doubled between 2012 and 2014 , while the average number of spear phishing emails detected per day fell sharply in the same time range @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> this seemingly contradictory phenomenon has dangerous implications : adversaries are possibly abandoning high - volume spear phishing in favor of more focused attacks with a heavy emphasis on detailed reconnaissance . </S>",
    "<S> given that most organizations main line of defense against spear phishing attempts is training their employees to recognize and avoid the attacks @xcite , an increase in the number of well - researched and convincing spear phishing emails would pose severe security risks in the near future . </S>",
    "<S> it is therefore vital that we develop a means of characterizing the extent to which adversaries are profiling their phishing targets .    </S>",
    "<S> we seek to characterize the phishing threat in this case - study using the techniques of natural language processing ( nlp ) . </S>",
    "<S> nlp provides powerful tools which are often used to compare documents or classify them into topical groups based on the terms in their respective vocabularies . </S>",
    "<S> the adversaries provided us with a set of documents describing the research interests of their phishing identities . </S>",
    "<S> if we obtain similar documents describing the targets , nlp allows us to visualize and quantify the similarities between adversaries and targets to determine if the attacks are more aligned with random spam or spear phishing .    </S>",
    "<S> the unique contribution of our work is that we provide a measure of the adversary s reconnaissance efforts and capabilities , and we use latent semantic analysis ( lsa ) to gain insight into the adversary s spear phishing plan of attack . </S>",
    "<S> we present nlp - based tools which can compare phishing agents to the recipients they have targeted . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate the efficacy of our techniques using our case - study , which we are able to characterize to very high degrees of statistical certainty . </S>",
    "<S> we outline strategies to improve our current methods , but maintain that these tools could identify adversaries intent in similar phishing scenarios . </S>"
  ]
}