{
  "article_text": [
    "ultracold neutrons ( ucn ) are defined via their unique property of being reflected under any angle of incidence from the surface of suitable materials with high material optical potential @xmath0 ( fermi potential ) @xcite .",
    "this is only occurring for neutrons with very low kinetic energies in the nev range , corresponding to velocities below 7 m/s or temperatures below 3mk . hence their name  ultracold  .",
    "well - suited materials are e.g. stainless steel , be , ni , nimo alloys or diamond - like carbon which display total ucn reflection up to their respective @xmath0 of 190 , 252 , 220 or 210 - 290nev , respectively @xcite . closed containers of such materials can confine ucn and serve as ucn storage vessels .",
    "evacuated tubes or rectangular shaped guides made of or coated with materials of high @xmath0 can be used to transport ucn over distances of several meters .",
    "the ultracold neutron source at psi @xcite is now in normal operation .",
    "about ten meters of neutron guides are necessary to transport ucn from the intermediate storage vessel to one of the three beam ports , traversing the several meter thick biological shield .",
    "the ucn guides , made from coated glass or coated stainless steel , are housed inside a stainless steel vacuum system .",
    "high vacuum conditions are required in order not to affect the ucn storage and transport properties .",
    "the main thrust for the construction and operation of high intensity ucn sources @xcite comes from the needs of high precision experiments like the search for a permanent electric dipole moment of the neutron @xcite .",
    "efficient transport of ucn from production to the experiment is a necessity .",
    "in addition , installation of the guides is a complex and lengthy procedure .",
    "moreover , the replacement of a guide would cause a long shutdown .",
    "therefore , it was decided to install only ucn guides tested with ucn and with known good ucn transmission .",
    "we have developed the prestorage method , described in section  [ sec : prestorage ] , which allowed us to perform a quality check on ucn guides and a quantification of the ucn transmission properties before final installation .",
    "ignatovich @xcite dedicates a long chapter in his book to `` transporting ucn '' and gives the definition of ucn transmission as `` the transmission of a neutron guide is the ratio of ucn flux at the output to the flux at the input '' .",
    "this is applicable when regarding continuous ucn sources and continuous experiment operation . in storage type experiments ,",
    "when an experimental chamber has to be filled within a given time period and using a ucn source with ucn intensity decreasing with time , the integrated number of ucn and the ucn passage time is relevant . in our method",
    "the transmission of the time - integrated counts will be studied instead of the flux transmission .",
    "independent of the materials used , ucn transmission increases with guide diameter and decreases with guide length l. for comparison between different types of guides the normalized transmission per meter ( t@xmath1 ) is used .",
    "the total guide transmission t then follows as : @xmath2}.\\ ] ] fig .",
    "[ transmission - simulation ] shows the calculated behavior of the ucn transmission with increasing guide length for normalized ucn transmissions in a realistic range for good ucn guides .",
    "a length of about 10 m is necessary at the psi source to pass the biological shielding .",
    "[ transmission - simulation ] demonstrates the importance of even small improvements in ucn transmission for such long installations . in general , the properties of the materials and ucn exposed surfaces , are decisively separating the good and the bad guides .        in the past",
    ", various measurements have been made to define and measure the properties of ucn guides with early attempts summarized in @xcite .",
    "the topic is also treated in recent publications @xcite , but experiments have notoriously been difficult with results not - necessarily transferable to other measurements .",
    "problematic issues were necessary assumptions on neutron flux , neutron energy distribution , detector efficiencies , and reproducibility of installations concerning e.g. small gaps in the setup causing ucn losses .    assuming a single number for ucn transmission is a simplification as the transmission probability depends on the kinetic energy and angular distribution of the neutrons .",
    "furthermore , it is important to know how fast ucn traverse the guide , i.e.  how fast one can fill an experiment on the exit side , which directly correlates to specular reflectivity and integral transmission . in principle it would be possible to repeat our measurements with monoenergetic ucn with a more complicated setup .",
    "the main parameters which define the neutron transmission of a ucn guide can be summarized as follows :    * surface roughness : the total reflections of neutrons from surfaces can be classified in specular reflections , where the angle of incidence is co - planar and equals the reflection angle and diffuse reflections , where the reflection angle is independent of the incident angle and follows a cosine distribution with respect to the perpendicular direction @xcite .",
    "this simple view is valid for roughness values much larger than the neutron wavelength .",
    "for very low roughness , e.g. for highly polished copper or coated glass surfaces @xcite , diffraction effects become important and the probability of diffuse reflections will depend on the incident angle and neutron elocity ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "the influence of surface roughness on ucn reflection has been studied recently in detail using flat plates as reflector @xcite .",
    "high ucn transmission is obtained with negligible diffuse reflections . which results in a short passage times for the ucn through the guide .",
    "hence , low surface roughness is a main quality criterion with glass being the preferential material .",
    "* material optical potential @xmath0 : the coherent neutron scattering length and material density defines the absolute value of @xmath0 which determines the energy range where total ucn reflection under any angle of incidence occurs @xcite . a high value of @xmath0 therefore allows to transmit ucn with higher energies and hence increases the ucn intensity . * neutron losses via material interaction : ucn reflect from surfaces at any angle of incidence in case their kinetic energy is below @xmath0 .",
    "as described by an imaginary part of the potential @xcite , there is a small probability that the ucn undergoes nuclear capture during reflection due to the neutron wave - function which slightly penetrates the surface barrier .",
    "the ucn losses are therefore energy dependent .",
    "+ in addition , the ucn can also inelastically scatter from surface atoms or impurity atoms sticking to the surface @xcite",
    ". wall temperatures always exceed ucn temperatures , causing ucn acceleration out of the ucn regime via phonon scattering . the overall loss due to these surface effects",
    "can be parametrized by a `` loss - per - bounce '' coefficient as a ratio of the imaginary and real parts of the optical potential .",
    "this coefficient is independent on kinetic energy . from this and the kinetic energy of the ucn",
    "one can calculate the loss per bounce probability @xmath3 by using eq .",
    "( 2.68 ) in @xcite .",
    "an energy - averaged loss per bounce probability @xmath4 can be estimated by transmission measurements . for the extraction of the loss - per",
    "bounce coefficient one needs to know the energy spectrum and the angular distribution of the ucn . *",
    "gaps : the passage of ucn through a guide can be regarded similar to the propagation of an ideal gas .",
    "gaps and holes , necessary e.g. for vacuum pumping , represent direct loss channels during ucn transport according to their relative surface area .",
    "in addition , areas of low @xmath0 which are directly visible to ucn also represent leaks , e.g.  at positions where surface coating is missing . avoiding gaps and holes",
    "is therefore of great importance in order to achieve a high ucn transmission .",
    "the setup for the prestorage measurement is sketched in fig.[setup ] .",
    "a prestorage vessel is filled with a defined and known number of ucn in a vessel prior to their release into a sample guide or directly into the detector .",
    "these stored ucn can then be directly measured with a detector mounted onto the vessel and hence be used as calibration .",
    "then , an additional ucn guide - the one to be tested - is mounted between the prestorage vessel and the detector and the measurement is repeated .",
    "the comparison of the integrated ucn counts in the two measurements is defined as the ucn transmission through the test guide for the given ucn energy spectrum .",
    "this measurement setup resembles a small version of the psi ucn source setup , where the neutrons may also be stored in an intermediate storage vessel .",
    "all ucn with kinetic energies above the material optical potential will be rapidly lost during storage , defining a reproducible energy spectrum .",
    "the prestorage vessel also influences the momentum direction distribution due to diffuse reflections .",
    "ucn passing long ucn guides have momenta peaked along the direction of the guide axis @xcite .",
    "after a sufficiently long storage period  of tens of seconds  this peak is largely reduced .",
    "a similar approach to determine guide transmission was followed by @xcite for a longer and geometrically more complicated ucn guide .",
    "this measurement and analysis was criticized by @xcite as an invalid method .",
    "the criticism is based on the fact that the prestorage vessel in the experiment was emptied through a small orifice , thus , the experiment was mainly comparing the storage time of the vessel , the outflow time and the measurement time . the fact that in our case the geometry is much simpler , i.e. the diameter of the ucn guide",
    "is not reduced in comparison to the storage vessel and there are no bends in the setup , makes the method primarily sensitive to the ucn transmission of the guide .",
    "besides a simple analysis , our measurements can be used to tune monte carlo simulations in order to describe realistic guide performances @xcite .",
    "our experiment was carried out at the pf2 facility of the institut laue - langevin ( ill ) using the edm beamline of the ucn - turbine @xcite .",
    "ucn are typically guided from the turbine port towards the experiment using electro - polished stainless steel tubes manufactured by nocado .",
    "the filling line included two 90 bends , which allow for an accurate setup alignment and significantly decrease the amount of ucn with kinetic energies above the material optical potential of steel .",
    "the nocado tubes used have an inner diameter of 66 mm . at the end of the guides ,",
    "the ucn enter the prestorage vessel through a stainless steel adapter flange mounted on customized vacuum shutters , special din-200 shutters from vat with inside parts coated with diamond - like carbon @xcite ( see sec.[vat : section ] ) .",
    "these shutters were later installed as beam ports of the psi ucn source .",
    "the measurement setup consists of a prestorage unit and a detection unit , which both remain unchanged during the measurements . in the calibration measurement",
    "a stainless steel adapter connects these two units ( fig.[setup]a ) .",
    "an additional test guide is mounted between these units in a transmission measurement .",
    "( fig.[setup]b ) .",
    "the prestorage unit is confined by shutter  1 and shutter  2 .",
    "the storage vessel is a tube made from duran@xmath5 , a borosilicate glass , with 180 mm inside diameter , 5 mm wall thickness .",
    "the tubes are sputter - coated on the inside with about 400 nm of nickel - molybdenum ( nimo ) , at a weight ratio of 85 to 15 , an alloy with a curie temperature well below room temperature @xcite .",
    "the use of the same surface coating in the prestorage vessel as in the guides shapes the ucn energy spectrum in a suitable way .",
    "the detector unit consists of a similar vat shutter ( no .  3 ) which is only used as a connector unit to the 2d-200 cascade - u detector via a 150 mm long nimo coated glass guide contained in a vacuum housing .",
    "the cascade - u detector is a gas electron multiplier ( gem)-based ucn detector using a 200 nm thin - film of @xmath6b deposited on the inside of the 0.1 mm almg3 entrance window of the detector to convert ucn to two charged particles ( @xmath7 and @xmath8li ) .",
    "these particles ionize the detector gas and 82% ar . ] .",
    "the charge is amplified by the gem foils and detected by a pixelated readout structure .",
    "the sensitive area of the detector covers the inner diameter of the glass guides @xcite .",
    "our standard sequence for transmission measurements has the following scheme:- wait for the ucn turbine signal ( shutter  1 open , shutter  2 closed);- fill the storage vessel for an optimized filling time of 30s;- close shutter  1;- store ucn for a preset storage time of 5s;- open shutter  2;- count ucn as a function of arrival time in the detector;- close shutter  2 after the measurement time;- open shutter  1 and wait again for ucn.shutter  3 stays permanently open during the entire measurement sequence and functions in transmission measurements only as connector piece .",
    "however , it is used in storage measurements .",
    "the large vat shutters used have opening / closing times of about 1s .",
    "the prestorage method is sensitive to the precise timing of shutter operations .",
    "we therefore measured the timing properties and the shutter opening function which influences the path of the ucn and their arrival at the detector .",
    "the shutter body is made of aluminum containing a moving part with a round opening and closing disc .",
    "all parts seen by ucn in the open and closed position , or during movement are coated with dlc .",
    "when the closing disc is retracted , the 25 mm gap at the center of the shutter is covered by an expanding ring to close the gap .",
    "[ vat - image - moving ] shows the vat opening displaying the frame of the moving part in an intermediate position .",
    "the shutter is air - actuated and controlled with electric valves .",
    "we have measured the timing between the closing of shutter  1 and opening of shutter  2 .",
    "this time defines the ucn storage time and hence the number of neutrons released into the sample .",
    "its accuracy is crucial for the reproducibility of the measurements .    in a separate measurement with similar conditions concerning actuating pressure and",
    "environmental temperature we determined without neutrons the relative timing stability of shutter  1 and 2 .",
    "the time of the shutter end - switch signals with respect to the slow control start signal was measured .",
    "the resulting time differences were filled into a histogram with 1ms bins , shown in fig  [ vat : jitter ] .",
    "note that the experiment was set to have exactly 5s time difference which was accurate on the 10@xmath9 level .",
    "the standard deviation @xmath10 of a gaussian fit is 3.2ms , reflecting an excellent reproducibility of the opening and closing times .",
    "the opening of the shutter also partially obstructs the path of the ucn during the movement , which is reflected in the opening function .",
    "we used a bright lamp and a camera for the measurement of the light transmission passing or deflecting on the intercepting shutter parts , supposing a comparable opening function for light and ucn .",
    "fig.[vat - opening - frames ] shows a selected sequence of pictures showing the shutter during opening .",
    "fig.[vat - opening ] shows the resulting opening function measured with three different actuator pressure settings of 3 , 5 , and 7bar .",
    "no significant difference was observed for the different pressures .",
    "the standard calibration setup is used to determine the ucn transmission through the setup without a test guide .",
    "the detection unit is connected to the prestorage vessel using a special adapter , a 60 mm short stainless steel piece . in order to optimize the transmission properties for the ucn and to minimize the influence of this adapter on the measurement , it was made as short as possible and the inner surface was hand - polished .",
    "in addition , the standard setup was modified in such a way that shutter 3 and the stainless steel adapter were removed . by comparing the results from the standard calibration measurement and the modified calibration measurement one obtains the influence of the stainless steel flange on the total count rate . in section  [ calibration : section ] we show these measurements agree within statistical uncertainties . hence , the influence of the adapter can safely be neglected .",
    "a photo of the setup installed at the ill edm beamline for the transmission measurements is shown in fig.[ill - setup - foto ] .",
    "the test guides were mounted in a custom vacuum housing between shutters  2 and 3 .",
    "as all the guides were designed to be installed at the psi ucn source short adapter pieces had to be manufactured in order to connect the guides to the vat shutters in the transmission measurements .",
    "all adapter pieces were made of stainless steel with a maximal length of 40 mm .",
    "the inside surfaces which act as neutron guides were hand polished to have negligible influence on the transmission measurements .",
    "care was taken to minimize any possible gaps between guides and adapters .",
    "two flexible bellows at both ends of the vacuum housing setup allowed to adapt the vacuum housing length to the total guide and adapter length .",
    "table  [ guide : lengths ] states names , lengths and materials of the measured guides .",
    "their names refer to the subsequent placement at the psi ucn source which is shown in fig.[fig : guide - names ] .",
    "the given guide lengths include the stainless steel end flanges which are permanently glued to the glass guide @xcite to allow for a stable connection and minimal gap widths between various parts in the final installation at psi .",
    "in addition , the total length includes the additional stainless steel adapter .",
    "all guides have inner diameters of 180 mm , only the guides 2w1 and ta - w2 have inner diameters of 160 mm .",
    "all guides , glass and stainless steel , were coated on the inside with the same nimo coating with a weight ratio of 85 to 15 percent which is non - magnetic at room temperature .",
    "the small section with the ucn butterfly valve shown in fig .",
    "[ butterfly - valve ] is coated with diamond - like carbon ( dlc ) .",
    "guides 1s1 and 1w3 are similar guides with identical dimensions and properties .        .",
    "guide names and corresponding lengths .",
    "names refer to locations for final mounting in the ucn source setup .",
    "the given guide lengths include the nimo coated stainless steel flanges glued onto the glass guides .",
    "the total lengths include also the stainless steel adapter pieces necessary to mount the guides in the setup .",
    "the material column defines the material of the tube , namely glass or stainless steel .",
    "the stainless steel guides include the part with the neutron valve . 1s1 and 1w3 are similar guides with identical dimensions and properties . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we have developed and used a prestorage method to determine ucn transmission of tubular ucn guides .",
    "most importantly , the measurements provided a quality control for the ucn guides prior to their installation at the psi ucn source .",
    "the results show excellent ucn transmission of the investigated guides .",
    "the measurements have shown that all guide tubes have transmission values above 95@xmath11 per meter .",
    "the glass guides , which are dominantly used in the psi ucn source , have transmissions above 98@xmath11 per meter .",
    "this work is part of the ph.d .",
    "thesis of l.  gltl .",
    "we would like to thank all people which contributed to design and construction of our experiment .",
    "anghel , p.  bucher , u.  bugman , m.  mhr and the ami shop , f.  burri , m.  dubs , j.  ehrat , m.  horisberger , r.  knecht , m.  meier , m.  mller and his shop , t.  rauber , p.  rttimann , r.  schelldorfer , t.  stapf , j.  welte ( all psi ) ; t.  brenner ( ill ) ; f.  lang , h.  hse ( s - dh ) ; j.  stdler ( glasform gossau ) ; m.  klein ( c - dt ) .",
    "tu munich ( e18 ) allowed the use of their table installed at pf2 .",
    "support by the swiss national science foundation projects 200020_137664 and 200020_149813 is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "= 10000          a.  anghel , f.  atchison , b.  blau , b.  van  den brandt , m.  daum , r.  doelling , m.  dubs , p .- a .",
    "duperrex , a.  fuchs , d.  george , l.  gltl , p.  hautle , g.  heidenreich , f.  heinrich , r.  henneck , s.  heule , t.  hofmann , s.  joray , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , a.  knecht , j.  konter , t.  korhonen , m.  kuzniak , b.  lauss , a.  mezger , a.  mtchedlishvili , g.  petzoldt , a.  pichlmaier , d.  reggiani , r.  reiser , u.  rohrer , m.  seidel , h.  spitzer , k.  thomsen , w.  wagner , m.  wohlmuther , g.  zsigmond , j.  zuellig , k.  bodek , s.  kistryn , j.  zejma , p.  geltenbort , c.  plonka , s.  grigoriev , the psi ultra - cold neutron source , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 611 ( 2009 ) 272275 .              c.  baker ,",
    "g.  ban , k.  bodek , m.  burghoff , z.  chowdhuri , m.  daum , m.  fertl , b.  franke , p.  geltenbort , k.  green , m.  van  der grinten , e.  gutsmiedl , p.  harris , r.  henneck , p.  iaydjiev , s.  ivanov , n.  khomutov , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , s.  kistryn , s.  knappe - gruneberg , a.  knecht , p.  knowles , a.  kozela , b.  lauss , t.  lefort , y.  lemiere , o.  naviliat - cuncic , j.  pendlebury , e.  pierre , f.  piegsa , g.  pignol , g.  quemener , s.  roccia , p.  schmidt - wellenburg , d.  shiers , k.  smith , a.  schnabel , l.  trahms , a.  weis , j.  zejma , j.  zenner , g.  zsigmond , the search for the neutron electric dipole moment at the paul scherrer institute , physics procedia 17  ( 0 ) ( 2011 ) 159  167 , 2nd international workshop on the physics of fundamental symmetries and interactions - psi2010 .",
    "s.  afach , c.  baker , g.  ban , g.  bison , k.  bodek , m.  burghoff , z.  chowdhuri , m.  daum , m.  fertl , b.  franke , p.  geltenbort , k.  green , m.  van  der grinten , z.  grujic , p.  harris , w.  heil , v.  helaine , r.  henneck , m.  horras , p.  iaydjiev , s.  ivanov , m.  kasprzak , y.  kermaidic , k.  kirch , a.  knecht , h .- c .",
    "koch , j.  krempel , m.  kuzniak , b.  lauss , t.  lefort , y.  lemiere , a.  mtchedlishvili , o.  naviliat - cuncic , j.  pendlebury , m.  perkowski , e.  pierre , f.  piegsa , g.  pignol , p.  prashanth , g.  quemener , d.  rebreyend , d.  ries , s.  roccia , p.  schmidt - wellenburg , a.  schnabel , n.  severijns , d.  shiers , k.  smith , j.  voigt , a.  weis , g.  wyszynski , j.  zejma , j.  zenner , g.  zsigmond , a measurement of the neutron to 199hg magnetic moment ratio , physics letters b 739 ( 2014 ) 128132 .",
    "s.  afach , g.  ban , g.  bison , k.  bodek , m.  burghoff , m.  daum , m.  fertl , b.  franke , z.  grujic , v.  helaine , m.  kasprzak , y.  kermaidic , k.  kirch , p.  knowles , h .- c .",
    "koch , s.  komposch , a.  kozela , j.  krempel , b.  lauss , t.  lefort , y.  lemiere , a.  mtchedlishvili , o.  naviliat - cuncic , f.  piegsa , g.  pignol , p.  prashanth , g.  quemener , d.  rebreyend , d.  ries , s.  roccia , p.  schmidt - wellenburg , a.  schnabel , n.  severijns , j.  voigt , a.  weis , g.  wyszynski , j.  zejma , j.  zenner , g.  zsigmond , constraining interactions mediated by axion - like particles with ultracold neutrons , physics letters b 745 ( 2015 ) 5863 .",
    "v.  nesvizhevsky , polished sapphire for ultracold - neutron guides , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a : accelerators , spectrometers , detectors and associated equipment 557  ( 2 ) ( 2006 ) 576579 .    c.  plonka , p.  geltenbort , t.  soldner , h.  haese , replika mirrors - nearly loss - free guides for ultracold neutrons - measurement technique and first preliminary results , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 578  ( 2 ) ( 2007 ) 450452 .",
    "i.  altarev , a.  frei , p.  geltenbort , e.  gutsmiedl , f.  hartmann , a.  mueller , s.  paul , c.  plonka , d.  tortorella , a method for evaluating the transmission properties of ultracold - neutron guides , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 570  ( 1 ) ( 2007 ) 101106 .",
    "a.  frei , k.  schreckenbach , b.  franke , f.  hartmann , t.  huber , r.  picker , s.  paul , p.  geltenbort , transmission measurements of guides for ultra - cold neutrons using ucn capture activation analysis of vanadium , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 612  ( 2 ) ( 2010 ) 349353 .",
    "m.  daum , b.  franke , p.  geltenbort , e.  gutsmiedl , s.  ivanov , j.  karch , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , a.  kraft , t.  lauer , b.  lauss , a.  mueller , s.  paul , p.  schmidt - wellenburg , t.  zechlau , g.  zsigmond , transmission of ultra - cold neutrons through guides coated with materials of high optical potential , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 741  ( 0 ) ( 2014 ) 7177 .",
    "f.  atchison , m.  daum , r.  henneck , s.  heule , m.  horisberger , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , a.  knecht , m.  kuzniak , b.  lauss , a.  mtchedlishvili , m.  meier , g.  petzoldt , c.  plonka - spehr , r.  schelldorfer , u.  straumann , g.  zsigmond , diffuse reflection of ultracold neutrons from low - roughness surfaces , the european physical journal a 44  ( 1 ) ( 2010 ) 2329 .",
    "f.  atchison , t.  brys , m.  daum , p.  fierlinger , p.  geltenbort , r.  henneck , s.  heule , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , a.  pichlmaier , c.  plonka , u.  straumann , c.  wermelinger , g.  zsigmond , loss and spinflip probabilities for ultracold neutrons interacting with diamondlike carbon and beryllium surfaces , phys .",
    "c 76  ( 4 ) ( 2007 ) 044001 .",
    "a.  steyerl , h.  nagel , f .- x .",
    "schreiber , k .- a .",
    "steinhauser , r.  gaehler , w.  glaeser , p.  ageron , j.  astruc , w.  drexel , g.  gervais , w.  mampe , a new source of cold and ultracold neutrons , physics letters a 116  ( 7 ) ( 1986 ) 347  352 .",
    "f.  atchison , t.  brys m.  daum , p.  fierlinger , p.  geltenbort , r.  henneck , s.  heule , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , a.  pichlmaier , c.  plonka , u.  straumann , c.  wermelinger , first storage of ultracold neutrons using foils coated with diamond - like carbon , physics letters b 625 ( 2005 ) 1925 .",
    "f.  atchison , b.  blau , m.  daum , p.  fierlinger , a.  foelske , p.  geltenbort , m.  gupta , r.  henneck , s.  heule , m.  kasprzak , m.  kuzniak , k.  kirch , m.  meier , a.  pichlmaier , c.  plonka , r.  reiser , b.  theiler , o.  zimmer , g.  zsigmond , diamond - like carbon can replace beryllium in physics with ultracold neutrons , phys .",
    "b 642 ( 2006 ) 2427 .",
    "f.  atchison , a.  bergmaier , m.  daum , m.  doebeli , g.  dollinger , p.  fierlinger , a.  foelske , r.  henneck , s.  heule , m.  kasprzak , k.  kirch , a.  knecht , m.  kuzniak , a.  pichlmaier , r.  schelldorfer , g.  zsigmond , surface characterization of diamond - like carbon for ultracold neutron storage , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 587  ( 1 ) ( 2008 ) 8288 .",
    "j.  bertsch , l.  gltl , k.  kirch , b.  lauss , r.  zubler , neutron radiation hardness of vacuum compatible two - component adhesives , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research section a 602  ( 2 ) ( 2009 ) 552556 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> there are worldwide efforts to search for physics beyond the standard model of particle physics . </S>",
    "<S> precision experiments using ultracold neutrons ( ucn ) require very high intensities of ucn . </S>",
    "<S> efficient transport of ucn from the production volume to the experiment is therefore of great importance . </S>",
    "<S> we have developed a method using prestored ucn in order to quantify ucn transmission in tubular guides . </S>",
    "<S> this method simulates the final installation at the paul scherrer institute s ucn source where neutrons are stored in an intermediate storage vessel serving three experimental ports . </S>",
    "<S> this method allowed us to qualify ucn guides for their intended use and compare their properties .    </S>",
    "<S> ultracold neutron , neutron transmission , neutron transport , neutron guide , ultracold neutron source 28.20.gd,28.20.-v,29.25.dz,61.80.hg </S>"
  ]
}