{
  "article_text": [
    "non - structural protein 3 ( ns3 ) is a molecular motor encoded by hepatitis c virus ( hcv ) consisting of a n - terminal region with a serine protease domain and a c - terminal superfamily 2 ( sf2 ) helicase that unwinds and translocates on nucleic acids .",
    "this protein translocates on single - stranded ribonucleic acid ( ssrna ) in the 3@xmath05 direction through a periodic stepwise mechanism @xcite .",
    "translocation is atp dependent , so that this enzyme has been also classified as a dexh box atpase @xcite .",
    "understanding the mechanism of action of this molecular motor at the atomistic level is fundamental since the ns3 helicase domain has been proposed as a target for the development of a antiviral agents @xcite .",
    "ns3 helicase has been characterized by single - molecule experiments @xcite and biochemical essays @xcite . although sometime acting as a dimer or as an oligomer @xcite , ns3 also functions as a monomer , similarly to other sf1 and sf2 helicases @xcite .",
    "the n - terminal protease domain affects the binding of ns3 to rna and plays an important role for the reaction kinetics @xcite .",
    "however , the protease domain is not essential for the helicase activity @xcite , thus the helicase domain ( ns3h ) can be characterized in isolation .",
    "interestingly , optical tweezer experiments have provided estimates of the number of substeps per cycle , up to a resolution of single base pair @xcite .    fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( fret ) @xcite on the ns3-dna complex suggested a step of 3 bp with 3 hidden substeps where 1 bp is unwound per 1 atp molecule consumed following an inchworm mechanism . however , although single molecule experiments allow the kinetics of the mechanism to be captured , they can not provide detailed structural information .",
    "additionally , the force applied during mechanical manipulation is often much larger than the actual force felt by biopolymers _ in vivo _ @xcite . on the other hand , x - ray crystallography can provide detailed snapshots at atomistic resolution .",
    "only a few intermediate snapshots have been reported so far related to ns3h translocation on rna @xcite , and conformational differences between these snapshots have been interpreted using elastic network models @xcite . in this",
    "context , molecular dynamics simulations @xcite with accurate force fields could add dynamical information to the available crystal structures providing a new perspective on the mechanism of action of this important molecular motor .    in this paper",
    ", we describe atomistic molecular dynamics ( md ) simulations in explicit solvent of ns3-ssrna complex in the absence ( apo ) and presence of atp / adp . in order to understand the stability of the intermediates along the translocation cycle we constructed putative intermediate structures .",
    "we used a recent version of the amber force field and performed microsecond time scale simulations so as to provide statistically meaningful results .",
    "results are complemented with non - equilibrium targeted molecular dynamics so as to assess the relative stability of the apo , adp , and atp structures .",
    "experimentally determined structures are shown to be stable within this timescale .",
    "both the experimental structures and the putative intermediate ones are analyzed in details .",
    "only a handful of md simulations have been reported on nucleic - acid / helicase complexes so far @xcite , all of them on a much shorter time scale . to the best of our knowledge",
    ", only a few md simulations have been performed on the microsecond timescale for rna - protein complexes of comparable or larger size @xcite , and thus our results provide a valuable benchmark for state - of - the - art molecular dynamics of these systems .",
    "atomistic molecular dynamics simulations in explicit solvent were performed for the ns3h - ssrna complex for three different molecular systems ( apo , with adp and with atp ) starting from two different conformations ( open and closed ) , for a total of six simulations . in the open form",
    "the distance between domains d1 and d2 is larger than in the closed form .",
    "crystal structures are available in the protein data bank ( pdb ) for the apo open form ( pdb : 3o8c ) and for the holo ( atp ) closed form ( pdb:3o8r )  @xcite .",
    "the four missing combinations , namely open - atp , open - adp , closed - adp , and closed - apo , were constructed as described below .",
    "a superimposed representation of open - apo and closed - atp crystal structures can be seen in figure  [ fig : peptide ] .",
    "the molecular visualizations were generated using vmd @xcite .",
    "the missing intermediate states were built based on other experimental structures available from the pdb .",
    "the closed - apo form was constructed by atp removal from the available closed - atp structure ( pdb : 3o8r )  @xcite .",
    "the open - atp / adp form was constructed by means of a structural alignment procedure , adding the atp / adp to the available open - apo structure ( pdb : 3o8c )  @xcite . to properly place the atp",
    ", we used the atp coordinates from the closed - atp structure ( pdb : 3o8r ) after structural alignment of the binding pocket site , motif i ( walker a , residues 204 to 211 ) . due to the lack of a crystal structure for the ns3h hcv - ssrna - adp complex",
    ", other ns3 helicases of flaviviridae virus were analyzed to characterize the adp binding on the protein .",
    "the possible candidates that belong to this family of viruses are dengue and yellow fever proteins .",
    "crystal structures of complex protein - ssrna - atp / adp are available for dengue virus ( pdb : 2jlv and 2jlz respectively )  @xcite .",
    "walker a is a well conserved motif across sf2 ns3 helicases , and a structural alignment showed that atp and adp placement is virtually identical in pdb : 2jlv and pdb : 2jlz of dengue virus .",
    "we thus used coordinates of adp taken from pdb : 3o8r in the closed ns3h , replacing atp , and in the open ns3h ( pdb : 3o8c ) .",
    "we observe that in reference @xcite the open - atp form was constructed by performing a targeted md starting from the closed - apo structure .",
    "we preferred here to use the structural alignment procedure discussed above to avoid potential artifacts resulting from the non - equilibrium pulling in the generation of the starting points for our long md simulations .",
    "29   in the open structure and @xmath126   in the closed one .",
    "water and ions are not shown . ]",
    "each of the starting structures consisting of ns3 peptide ( 436 aminoacids ) , polyuracil ssrna ( 6 nucleotides ) , and , when present , atp / adp@xmath2mg@xmath3 , was solvated in a box containing 31058 water molecules , 70 na@xmath4 ions , corresponding to a 0.1 m concentration , and the missing cl@xmath5 ions to neutralize the total charge , for a total of @xmath1100000 atoms ( see table sd1 for details ) .",
    "gromacs 4.6 program @xcite with amber99sb*ildn - parmbsc0-@xmath6 + amber99atp / adp force fields were used . this force field",
    "is based on amber99 force field  @xcite , and additionally implements corrections to protein backbone  @xcite , protein side - chain @xcite , rna backbone @xcite , and glycosidic torsions @xcite as well as parameters for atp and adp @xcite and mg@xmath3 @xcite .",
    "water molecules were described by the tip3p model  @xcite .",
    "all the molecular dynamics simulations were performed on the isothermal - isobaric ensemble , using the stochastic velocity rescaling thermostat at 300 k  @xcite and the berendsen barostat with an isotropic pressure coupling of 1 bar  @xcite .",
    "the systems were simulated for 1@xmath7s each , with a 2 fs time step , using periodic boundary conditions , the lincs algorithm @xcite to constrain bonds , and the particle - mesh ewald method  @xcite to account for long - range electrostatics .",
    "the resulting setup for the apo simulations is thus similar to the one used in @xcite .",
    "the conformations obtained after 200 ns were extracted and used with randomized velocities as starting points for further control simulations of 200 ns length each . the root - mean - square deviations after structural alignment ( rmsd ) @xcite of the long md and of the control simulations were used to verify the stability of the simulated systems .      to monitor structural fluctuations we used two order parameters based on a combination of rmsds from the crystal structures . in reference",
    "@xcite the difference between squared rmsd from open and closed structure was used to monitor the conformational change .",
    "we here used a similar procedure but we considered a subset of atoms from the peptide and the ssrna that are mainly involved in the conformational change . the full list of atoms is provided in supplementary data ( figure sd1 and table sd2 ) .",
    "we observe that the difference between squared rmsds is closely related to the progression variable @xmath8 used in the context of path collective variables @xcite .",
    "we thus also introduce a variable @xmath9 that measures the distance from a hypothetical transition path obtained as a linear interpolation between the two experimental structures . @xmath8 and @xmath9 are thus defined as @xmath10 and @xmath11 here @xmath12 and @xmath13 are the rmsds from the open ( pdb : 3o8c ) and closed ( pdb : 3o8r ) structures respectively , and @xmath14 is the rmsd between the open and the closed structure .    additionally , we performed a principal components analysis ( pca ) using the same set of atoms @xcite .",
    "the pca was made based on a single trajectory obtained by concatenating all the 6 simulations .",
    "individual simulations were then projected on the eigenvectors corresponding to the two largest eigenvalues .",
    "hydrogen bonds are computed based on distance - angle geometric criteria @xcite .",
    "the cut - off radius for the distance donor - acceptor is of 3.5   and the cut - off angle between acceptor - donor - hydrogen ( 0@xmath15 is the strongest interaction ) is 30@xmath15 .",
    "the _ g_hbond _ tool of gromacs 4.6 program was used for the calculations , and the standard errors were estimated through a binning analysis .",
    "in order to monitor stacking interactions between nucleobases and between aromatic aminoacids and nucleobases we used two different procedures .",
    "intra rna stacking was annotated by the barnaba tool  @xcite , which assigns one oriented bead to each nucleotide to describe rna structural properties . for stacking between aromatic aminoacids and nucleobases we used a geometric criterion where the two residues were considered as stacked",
    "if the distance between their center of mass was less than 5  and the angle between the two planes was less than 30@xmath15 .",
    "this latter analysis has been performed for selected interactions that are observed in the crystal structure , namely y241 with ligand adenine and for w501 with u7 .",
    "distances and angles were computed with plumed  @xcite .",
    "electrostatic interactions between protein - rna and protein - ligand were monitored by computing the debye - hckel interaction energy @xcite .",
    "the calculation was made using plumed  @xcite with the implementation described in ref  @xcite .",
    "an ionic strength of 0.1 m was selected that corresponds to a screening length of @xmath16 10  .",
    "enthalpy is defined in the isothermal - isobaric ensemble as @xmath17 . here",
    "@xmath18 is the potential energy , @xmath19 the external pressure , and @xmath20 the volume of the simulated box .",
    "the enthalpy values were computed here with the _ g_energy _ tool of gromacs 4.6 program . for energy differences to be meaningful",
    ", simulations corresponding to different conformations ( open or closed ) of the same system were prepared so as to contain exactly the same number and types of atoms . since",
    "total energy can be affected by numerical details , all simulations were performed using identical settings on identical computers .",
    "the first 200 ns of md were performed using gpus+cpus , and the remaining 800 ns using cpus only .",
    "we obseved no significant difference between results obtained with gpus+cpus and results obtained with cpus only .",
    "we also recall that total energy calculation can be affected by statistical errors mostly due to fluctuations of solvent contributions .",
    "we here computed errors using a binning analysis , and run simulations long enough for this error to be @xmath21 kcal / mol .      to estimate the relative stability of the closed and open conformations for the apo / adp / atp structures ,",
    "we performed short targeted md starting from the closed structures @xcite following a protocol similar to the one used in ref @xcite .",
    "namely , we applied a time dependent harmonic restraint of stiffness 500 kcal/(mol @xmath22 ) to the rmsd from the corresponding open structures .",
    "rmsd was computed using all heavy atoms of protein and rna .",
    "the center of the restraint was moved from a given initial value to zero during a 20 ns long simulation .",
    "during the first ns the center was left at its original value , whereas during the following 19 ns the center was moved linearly in time to zero . to avoid any bias , we chose the initial value to be equal to rmsd between the closed structure after equilibration and the open crystal in all the three cases , and we repeated every simulation three times using a different random seed .",
    "this resulted in a total of 27 independent simulations , corresponding to 3 different systems ( apo / adp / atp ) , 3 different steering protocols ( starting from the initial rmsd of apo / adp / atp structures ) and 3 different random seeds .",
    "the relative stability of the closed and open structures was estimated by measuring the work performed during the pulling .",
    "the linearized path variables @xmath8 and @xmath9 are used here to monitor conformational changes in our md trajectories .",
    "as it can be observed in figure  [ fig : sz ] , all the simulations are stable ( see also figure sd2 and the time series of rmsd in figure sd3 ) and remain near to the starting experimental structure ( @xmath23 ) without undergoing significant transitions to the other conformation .",
    "the protein / rna complex is more flexible in the open structure than in the closed one , as it can be appreciated by the larger fluctuations of the @xmath9 value .",
    "moreover , one can observe that , in presence of the ligand , fluctuations are partly reduced both in the open and in the closed structure .",
    "the distribution of the @xmath8 variable indicates that both the apo and the adp open systems explore regions that are slightly towards the closed reference structure . for the apo system a bimodal distribution is observed ( figure  [ fig : sz ] ) with one peak corresponding to a lower distance from the closed structure .",
    "this peak is however sampled only transiently in the first half of the simulation , as it can be seen from figure sd2 . in the second half of the trajectory",
    "the protein opens again .",
    "we also computed the gap between d1 and d2 as the distance between the centers of mass of d1 and d2 ( see table sd3 ) .",
    "the interdomain gap is @xmath128   for the open conformations and @xmath126   for the closed ones .",
    "similar results were obtained by the pca and can be seen in figure sd4",
    ".          .average number of intra - solute hydrogen bonds for each of the six reported simulations .",
    "detailed counts between selected solute groups are reported in table sd4 - 6 . [ cols=\"^,<,<,^ \" , ]     enthalpy values are important to describe internal interactions @xcite",
    ". differences of enthalpy thus provide an indication of relative stability of different conformations , at least when their contribution is dominant in the free - energy difference . in the present context",
    ", enthalpy calculations suggest that the atp stabilizes the open structure , in contrast with the observed number of intra - solute hydrogen bonds , the structural analysis of the binding pocket , and the electrostatic interactions estimated within the debye - hckel model .",
    "the work performed during the targeted molecular dynamics was used as a proxy for the relative stability of the closed and open structure in the presence and the absence of the ligand .",
    "one should consider here that the average work only provides an upper estimate of the free - energy change , and that in principle simulations should be combined using the jarzynski s equality @xcite .",
    "however , a very large number of simulations would be required to provide a converged estimate of the free - energy change for this complex rearrangement . additionally , since in the targeted md an increasingly strong restraint",
    "is applied to a large number of atoms , the absolute value of the free - energy change would be largely affected by the decrease in the entropy of the restrained atoms . in spite of these quantitative limitations , the average work can be used as a qualitative tool to rank the free - energy differences for apo , adp , and atp structures .",
    "the results for the different steering protocols are shown in figure sd8 . here",
    ", it can be appreciated that the work required to open the apo form is systematically lower than the one required to open the adp and atp forms .",
    "this result is compatible with the structural analysis of the binding pocket , the hydrogen bonds between solute molecules , and the electrostatic interactions discussed above , indicating that the enthalpy is compensated by a large entropic change .",
    "the ligand - induced stabilization of the closed form is also compatible with the fact that the atp form was crystallized in this conformation .",
    "we here presented a detailed analysis of conformational properties of ns3 helicase from hcv in complex with ssrna , with atp / adp , and in the apo form .",
    "for each of these three systems , we performed md simulations starting from both the open and the closed conformation , for a total of 6 simulations of 1 @xmath7s length each . for two of these simulations",
    "the starting structure was already available as obtained from x - ray cristallography , whereas the remaining four systems were built by structural alignment .",
    "although this protein / rna complex has only been crystallized either in the apo form or with atp , we also analyzed the effect of atp replacement by adp .",
    "an intermediate structure with adp has been reported for ns3 from dengue virus @xcite , but has never been characterized for the hcv ns3 .",
    "the atp hydrolysis reaction was not explicitly analyzed here , but has been addressed in the literature for the pcra helicase @xcite and for other motor proteins ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the present work is not aimed at giving a mechanistic understanding of hydrolysis itself , but rather at providing an insight on the system s behavior after the hydrolysis reaction has occurred .",
    "overall , all the observed trajectories were stable on this timescale and did not experience any significative structural change .",
    "this provides a validation for the protocol employed to build the four structures not obtained from x - ray .",
    "in particular , structural stability was assessed by monitoring combinations of rmsd from the open and closed pdb structures , where it can be appreciated that all systems remained near to the experimental structure on this timescale .",
    "interestingly , the atp and adp open structures have a lower enthalpy than the corresponding closed structures , indicating that they have been properly equilibrated . additionally , we observed that in the presence of atp the closed structure fluctuated less compared with closed - apo / adp and its open analogue , suggesting that the closed comformation is stabilized by the presence of atp .",
    "this is consistent with the fact that the crystallized structure with atp is in its closed conformation @xcite . on the other hand , the simulations from the open structure displayed larger fluctuations",
    "this holds also for the open - apo structure , which has been crystallized @xcite .",
    "it is possible that crystal contact or interactions with the protease domain stabilize the open - apo structure in the experiments .    when atp is present , the total number of hydrogen bonds formed by the solute is significantly larger in the closed structure when compared with the open one",
    "this is also consistent with the fact that atp stabilizes the closed conformation .",
    "interestingly , for both the apo and the adp complex this is not observed , and the number of hydrogen bonds is equivalent in the open and closed structures .",
    "this indicates that the free - energy difference @xmath24 between the open and the closed structures should be larger in the atp case , as confirmed also by the targeted md simulations .",
    "this @xmath24 is related to the differential affinity of the ligand in the two structures .",
    "indeed , @xmath25 , where @xmath26 is the boltzmann constant , @xmath27 is the temperature , and @xmath28 and @xmath29 are the atp dissociation constants in the open and closed conformation respectively .",
    "thus , our result implies that the atp affinity is larger in the closed form .",
    "the difference in the protein - adp / atp interaction estimated by a debye - hckel model is also consistent with this picture .",
    "surprisingly , enthalpy calculations has an opposite trend , suggesting that open - atp is dramatically more stable than closed - atp .",
    "we observe that this difference ( @xmath30kcal / mol ) is much larger than its statistical error ( @xmath31kcal / mol ) so that the reported md simulations are sufficiently converged to estimate this trend .",
    "we recall that , although enthalpy provides a very important contribution to free - energy changes , it might be not sufficient to evaluate the relative stability of two conformers . indeed , entropic contributions have been reported to cancel enthalpic ones in several cases  @xcite . from our simulations , it is not possible to properly estimate the entropic difference which should be ascribed not only to the changes in solute flexibility but also to non trivial changes in water entropy which are connected with e.g. hydrophobic effects in the cavity between d1 and d2 .",
    "although it is in principle possible to use enhanced sampling methods to directly compute free - energy differences  @xcite , this is a complex procedure for concerted conformational changes and is left as a subject of further investigation . from the presented results , it can be inferred that a strong entropic compensation stabilizes the experimentally observed closed - atp structure .",
    "we also analyzed carefully the pattern of rna - protein interactions . in our simulations",
    "the protein does not interact with sugars in the rna backbone .",
    "this is consistent with the empirical observation that this helicase can also process dna @xcite .",
    "contacts between t269 and t411 with the phosphate oxygens are different according to the protein conformation and act like hooks with the rna chain during the translocation mechanism .",
    "this feature has been reported for other sf2 rna - binding helicases such as vasa drosophila and elf4a , suggesting a possible common mechanism among several helicases of this superfamily @xcite . besides confirming the contacts that were already seen in the experimental structures , our simulations provide an insight on the possible conformations available for the open - atp and closed - apo structures .",
    "indeed , in the atp complex we observe different contacts with residues r393 and n556 , which should be likely ascribed to an allosteric change induced by the ligand .",
    "we notice that the contact network of the ligand binding pocket is affected to the largest extent by the addition of atp / adp or by opening and closing",
    ". the closed - atp complex preserves the contacts between the motifs i , vi and the atp observed in the crystal structures . on the contrary",
    ", the open - atp complex presents a rearrangement due to the missing contacts with d2 .",
    "the above effect is probably an underlying reason for the atp - dependent stabilization of the closed form . upon the replacement of the atp by adp , which mimics the result of the hydrolysis reaction",
    ", more interactions are observed between the ligand and d2 .",
    "this suggests that the stabilizing effect of adp on the open form is significantly larger than that of atp .",
    "in other words , after hydrolysis has occurred the closed conformation is destabilized with respect to the open one and a conformational transition towards to open structure could be favored . as a final remark , we observe that performing molecular dynamics of rna / protein complexes is a non trivial task , and only a few studies have been published so far ( see ref .",
    "@xcite for a recent overview ) . in this work , we tested molecular dynamics on a biologically relevant complex including a medium sized protein , a short ssrna , and a nucleotide ligand using recent force fields on the @xmath7s time scale , which is the state of the art for classical molecular dynamics .",
    "the total time including all the systems and all the control simulations is approximately 9 @xmath32 .",
    "this simulation time allowed us to compute averages with relatively small statistical errors and to perform several consistency checks indicating that our simulations provide a converged conformational ensemble around the equilibrium structures .",
    "the experimental snapshots are stable within the investigated time scale , indicating that these force fields might be able to properly characterize such heterogenous complexes .",
    "although enhanced sampling techniques should be used to quantify the relative stability of the simulated conformations , this work provides an extensive characterization of the possible intermediates sampled during ns3 translocation on rna at atomistic details .",
    "the research leading to these results been funded by the european research council under the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp/2007 - 2013 ) / erc grant agreement n. 306662 , s - rna - s .",
    "we acknowledge the cineca award no .",
    "hp10bl6xfz , 2013 , under the iscra initiative for the availability of high performance computing resources .",
    "none declared .",
    "anna marie pyle is acknowledged for useful discussions and for providing enlightening suggestions .",
    "petr stadlbauer and jiri sponer are also acknowledged for useful discussions .",
    "cheng , w. , arunajadai , s.  g. , moffitt , j.  r. , tinoco , i. , and bustamante , c. ( 2011 ) single  base pair unwinding and asynchronous rna release by the hepatitis c virus ns3 helicase _ science _ * 333 * , 17461749 .",
    "dumont , s. , cheng , w. , serebrov , v. , beran , r.  k. , tinoco , i. , pyle , a.  m. , and bustamante , c. ( 2006 ) rna translocation and unwinding mechanism of hcv ns3 helicase and its coordination by atp _ nature _ * 439 * , 105108 .",
    "cheng , w. , dumont , s. , tinoco , i. , and bustamante , c. ( 2007 ) ns3 helicase actively separates rna strands and senses sequence barriers ahead of the opening fork _ proc .",
    "natl . acad .",
    "u. s. a. _ * 104 * , 1395413959 .",
    "mukherjee , s. , hanson , a.  m. , shadrick , w.  r. , ndjomou , j. , sweeney , n.  l. , hernandez , j.  j. , bartczak , d. , li , k. , frankowski , k.  j. , heck , j.  a. , arnold , l.  a. , schoenen , f.  j. , and frick , d.  n. ( 2012 ) identification and analysis of hepatitis c virus ns3 helicase inhibitors using nucleic acid binding assays _ nucleic acids res .",
    "_ * 40 * , 86078621 .",
    "ventura , g.  t. , costa , e. c. b.  d. , capaccia , a.  m. , and mohana - borges , r. ( 2014 ) ph - dependent conformational changes in the hcv ns3 protein modulate its atpase and helicase activities _ plos one _ * 9 * , e115941 .",
    "jennings , t.  a. , mackintosh , s.  g. , harrison , m.  k. , sikora , d. , sikora , b. , dave , b. , tackett , a.  j. , cameron , c.  e. , and raney , k.  d. ( 2009 ) ns3 helicase from the hepatitis c virus can function as a monomer or oligomer depending on enzyme and substrate concentrations _",
    "chem . _ * 284 * , 48064814 .",
    "sikora , b. , chen , y. , lichti , c.  f. , harrison , m.  k. , jennings , t.  a. , tang , y. , tackett , a.  j. , jordan , j.  b. , sakon , j. , cameron , c.  e. , and raney , k.  d. ( 2008 ) hepatitis c virus ns3 helicase forms oligomeric structures that exhibit optimal dna unwinding activity in vitro",
    "_ j. biol .",
    "chem . _ * 283 * , 1151611525 .",
    "rajagopal , v. , gurjar , m. , levin , m.  k. , and patel , s.  s. ( 2010 ) the protease domain increases the translocation stepping efficiency of the hepatitis c virus ns3 - 4a helicase",
    "_ j. biol .",
    "chem . _ * 285 * , 1782117832 .",
    "beran , r. k.  f. , serebrov , v. , and pyle , a.  m. ( 2007 ) the serine protease domain of hepatitis c viral ns3 activates rna helicase activity by promoting the binding of rna substrate _ j. biol",
    ". chem . _ * 282 * , 3491334920 .",
    "liphardt , j. , dumont , s. , smith , s.  b. , tinoco , i. , and bustamante , c. ( 2002 ) equilibrium information from nonequilibrium measurements in an experimental test of jarzynski s equality _ science _ * 296 * , 18321835 .",
    "yao , n. , reichert , p. , taremi , s.  s. , prosise , w.  w. , and weber , p.  c. ( 1999 ) molecular views of viral polyprotein processing revealed by the crystal structure of the hepatitis c virus bifunctional protease ",
    "helicase _ structure _ * 7 * , 13531363 .    appleby , t.  c. , anderson , r. , fedorova , o. , pyle , a.  m. , wang , r. , liu , x. , brendza , k.  m. , and somoza , j.  r. ( 2011 ) visualizing atp - dependent rna translocation by the ns3 helicase from hcv _ j. mol",
    ". biol . _ * 405 * , 11391153 .",
    "flechsig , h. and mikhailov , a.  s. ( 2010 ) tracing entire operation cycles of molecular motor hepatitis c virus helicase in structurally resolved dynamical simulations _ proc .",
    "u. s. a. _ * 107 * , 2087520880 .",
    "bock , l.  v. , blau , c. , schrder , g.  f. , davydov , i.  i. , fischer , n. , stark , h. , rodnina , m.  v. , vaiana , a.  c. , and grubmller , h. ( 2013 ) energy barriers and driving forces in trna translocation through the ribosome _ nat .",
    "biol . _ * 20 * , 13901396 .",
    "krepl , m. , havrila , m. , stadlbauer , p. , ban , p. , otyepka , m. , pasulka , j. , tefl , r. , and sponer , j. ( 2015 ) can we execute stable microsecond - scale atomistic simulations of protein - rna complexes ?",
    "_ j. chem .",
    "theory comput . _",
    "* 11 * , 12201243 .",
    "wang , j. , cieplak , p. , and kollman , p.  a. ( 2000 ) how well does a restrained electrostatic potential ( resp ) model perform in calculating conformational energies of organic and biological molecules ? _",
    "j. comput .",
    "* 21 * , 10491074 .",
    "hornak , v. , abel , r. , okur , a. , strockbine , b. , roitberg , a. , and simmerling , c. ( 2006 ) comparison of multiple amber force fields and development of improved protein backbone parameters _ proteins : struct .",
    ", bioinf . _ * 65 * , 712725 .",
    "lindorff - larsen , k. , piana , s. , palmo , k. , maragakis , p. , klepeis , j.  l. , dror , r.  o. , and shaw , d.  e. ( 2010 ) improved side - chain torsion potentials for the amber ff99sb protein force field _ proteins : struct .",
    ", bioinf . _ * 78 * , 19501958 .",
    "prez , a. , marchn , i. , svozil , d. , sponer , j. , cheatham  iii , t. , laughton , c. , and orozco , m. ( 2007 ) refinement of the amber force field for nucleic acids : improving the description of [ alpha]/[gamma ] conformers _ biophys . j. _ * 92 * , 38173829 .",
    "zgarbov , m. , otyepka , m. , poner , j. , mldek , a. , ban , p. , cheatham , t.  e. , and jureka , p. ( 2011 ) refinement of the cornell et al .",
    "nucleic acids force field based on reference quantum chemical calculations of glycosidic torsion profiles _",
    "theory comput .",
    "_ * 7 * , 28862902 .",
    "schlitter , j. , engels , m. , krger , p. , jacoby , e. , and wollmer , a. ( 1993 ) targeted molecular dynamics simulation of conformational change - application to the t  r transition in insulin _ mol .",
    "* 10 * , 291308 .",
    "branduardi , d. , marinelli , f. , and faraldo - gmez , j.  d. ( 2015 ) atomic - resolution dissection of the energetics and mechanism of isomerization of hydrated atp - mg2 + through the soma string method _ j. comput",
    ". chem . _ * doi : 10.1002/jcc.23991*.      hilser , v.  j. , gmez , j. , and freire , e. ( 1996 ) the enthalpy change in protein folding and binding : refinement of parameters for structure - based calculations _ proteins : struct .",
    ", bioinf . _",
    "* 26 * , 123133 .",
    "hayashi , s. , ueno , h. , shaikh , a.  r. , umemura , m. , kamiya , m. , ito , y. , ikeguchi , m. , komoriya , y. , iino , r. , and noji , h. ( 2012 ) molecular mechanism of atp hydrolysis in f1-atpase revealed by molecular simulations and single - molecule observations _",
    "soc . _ * 134 * , 84478454 .",
    "mcgrath , m.  j. , kuo , i .- f .  w. , hayashi , s. , and takada , s. ( 2013 ) adenosine triphosphate hydrolysis mechanism in kinesin studied by combined quantum - mechanical / molecular - mechanical metadynamics simulations _ j. am .",
    "_ * 135 * , 89088919 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> non structural protein 3 ( ns3 ) helicase from hepatitis c virus is an enzyme that unwinds and translocates along nucleic acids with an atp - dependent mechanism and has a key role in the replication of the viral rna . an inchworm - like mechanism for translocation has been proposed based on crystal structures and single molecule experiments . </S>",
    "<S> we here perform atomistic molecular dynamics in explicit solvent on the microsecond time scale of the available experimental structures . </S>",
    "<S> we also construct and simulate putative intermediates for the translocation process , and we perform non - equilibrium targeted simulations to estimate their relative stability . for each of the simulated structures we carefully characterize the available conformational space , the ligand binding pocket , and the rna binding cleft . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis of the hydrogen bond network and of the non - equilibrium trajectories indicates an atp - dependent stabilization of one of the protein conformers . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , enthalpy calculations suggest that entropic effects might be crucial for the stabilization of the experimentally observed structures . </S>"
  ]
}