{
  "article_text": [
    "distance and velocity measurements of millisecond pulsars can be used to constrain models of supernova dynamics , binary star evolution , pulsar emission physics , and the ionized interstellar medium .",
    "they can characterize the millisecond pulsar population as a whole , and they can be used to probe the kinematic evolution of the millisecond pulsar population in the galaxy and its relation to other stellar populations .",
    "pulsar timing allows for high precision measurement of millisecond pulsar positions , parallaxes , and proper motions .",
    "pulse times of arrival ( toas ) measured over the course of a year vary in part due to the changing time - of - flight of the pulses across the solar system , i.e. , the roemer delay .",
    "this variation is approximately sinusoidal with a period of one year .",
    "the phase and amplitude of this pattern can be used to infer the ecliptic longitude and latitude of the pulsar , respectively . for many millisecond pulsars",
    ", toas can be measured to a precision well under a microsecond , yielding position measurements with precision of order milliarcseconds or better .",
    "measurements of positions over several years can be used to infer proper motions with precision of milliarcseconds per year .",
    "such highly precise toa measurements can also be used to infer pulsar parallaxes , and hence distances , out to distances of order a kiloparsec .",
    "proper motions and distances combine to yield two components of the pulsar velocity vectors .",
    "canonical ( non - millisecond ) pulsars are well known to be high velocity objects .",
    "for example , the proper motion study of @xcite found that canonical pulsars have mean speeds of @xmath8  km  s@xmath4when measured in one dimension and @xmath9  km / s when measured in two dimensions ; from this they inferred that pulsars are formed in a thin disk with a mean birth speed of @xmath10  km / s .",
    "these high velocities presumably result from asymmetries in supernova explosions , possibly combined with pre - supernova orbital and space motion of the pulsar progenitor .",
    "in contrast , early studies of millisecond pulsars showed their space velocities to be much lower than those of canonical pulsars @xcite .",
    "this has been confirmed by , among others , @xcite , whose analysis of recycled pulsars ( which they defined as having spin periods @xmath11  ms and spin - down rates @xmath12 ) found their one - dimensional and two - dimensional mean speeds to be @xmath13  km  s@xmath4and @xmath14  km  s@xmath4 , respectively .",
    "@xcite , whose analysis of millisecond pulsars ( which they defined to have spin periods @xmath15  ms ) found their mean two - dimensional speed to be @xmath16km / s .",
    "the relatively small space velocities of millisecond pulsars are likely a byproduct of their formation process . according to the conventional scenario ,",
    "a millisecond pulsar is formed as a canonical pulsar and then spun - up to its millisecond rotational period via mass accretion from a binary companion , @xcite .",
    "if a neutron star in a binary system is formed with a large kick , the binary is likely to be disrupted , and the binary accretion needed to form a millisecond pulsar can not take place . only binary systems with small or fortuitously oriented kicks survive and allow formation of millisecond pulsars .",
    "alternatively , low - velocity kicks may result from electron - capture supernovae , and the millisecond pulsars may be formed via accretion - induced collapse of a white dwarf during mass transfer in a binary ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    one might expect correlations between millisecond pulsar kinematics and orbital properties , i.e. , different velocity distributions for isolated and binary millisecond pulsars ; and , among binary millisecond pulsars , a dependence of velocity on orbital period or mass function ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "indeed , @xcite found greater galactic heights for lower - mass binary millisecond pulsar systems .",
    "@xcite compared isolated and binary millisecond pulsars and found that they had indistinguishable velocity distributions , but that observed binary pulsars had a larger galactic scale height , leading to speculation that the two populations have different luminosity distributions , with isolated pulsars weaker and therefore more difficult to detect at large distances ; however , @xcite argue that this could arise from selection effects in pulsar searches . @xcite , analyzing a larger sample of millisecond pulsars , also found the velocity distributions of binary and isolated millisecond pulsars to be indistinguishable .",
    "stellar populations in the solar neighborhood have ellipsoidal velocity distributions .",
    "@xcite show that analysis of these velocity distributions can give insight into the dynamical history of millisecond pulsars , including both the magnitudes of any kicks received at formation and the diffusion of these pulsars through the galaxy .",
    "we adopt galactocentric coordinates , with @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 in the direction of the galactic center , the direction of galactic rotation , and the direction perpendicular to the galactic disk , respectively , , @xmath20 , and @xmath21 in the solar neighborhood .",
    "we use alternate notation to acknowledge that some pulsars in our analysis are far from the solar neighborhood . ] and we denote their velocity dispersions by @xmath22 , @xmath23 , and @xmath24 . it is well established theoretically and observationally that , for any given stellar population , @xmath25 , with typical ratios @xmath26 and @xmath27 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; for simplicity , we ignore vertex deviation ) .",
    "analyzing millisecond pulsar velocities in galactocentric coordinates has three advantages .",
    "( i ) it facilitates comparisons with other stellar populations .",
    "( ii ) the consistency of the magnitudes of the different components can be used to cross - check the measured velocity distributions .",
    "( iii ) if a component were biased by selection effects  in particular , pulsar searches are preferentially made along the galactic plane , and one could imagine this biasing the distribution of @xmath19the other components might still give unbiased results",
    ".    the nanograv collaboration is undertaking long - term timing of several dozen millisecond pulsars for the purpose of detecting and characterizing gravitational waves via their perturbation of millisecond pulsar toas on time scales of tens of years ( frequencies of nanohertz ) .",
    "the detection of gravitational wave signals requires the modeling and removal of all other phenomena that influence pulse arrival times , including solar system time - of - flight effects which yield the astrometric measurements described above . the nanograv nine - year data release @xcite reports timing observations of 37 pulsars collected over nine years , and includes pulse timing models for all of these pulsars . in the present paper , we analyze the astrometric parameters from that work .    in   [ sec : obs ] , we summarize the observations . in   [ sec : measurements ] , we list the parameters resulting from the timing analysis . in   [ sec : distances ] , we discuss the distances inferred from the timing measurements . in   [ sec : mspvelocities ] , we combine our newly measured millisecond pulsar velocities with previous measurements to analyze the kinematics of the millisecond pulsar population as a whole . in   [ sec : conclusion ] , we summarize our results .    except where otherwise specified",
    ", we define a millisecond pulsar to be a pulsar with rotational period of 20  ms or less , and a spin - down rate of less than @xmath28 , a definition that includes all pulsars observed in the nanograv program .",
    "we exclude pulsars in globular clusters from our study , because no nanograv sources are in globular clusters , and because the formation and dynamics of millisecond pulsars in globular clusters are different than those of millisecond pulsars in the galactic disk .",
    "we use data from the nanograv nine - year data set , which we briefly summarize here . for full details see @xcite . observations of 37 millisecond pulsars were made using the arecibo observatory ( ao ) and the green bank telescope ( gbt ) .",
    "the project began with 15 pulsars in 2004 , and new pulsars were added to the project as they were discovered or when wide - band data acquisition systems enabled sources previously deemed unreliable to be precisely timed .",
    "pulsars were chosen based on high timing precision , detectability over a wide frequency range , and expected timing stability .",
    "the nine - year data set includes observations through 2013 . observed time spans of individual pulsars range from 0.6  yr to 9.2  yr .",
    "each pulsar was observed at approximately monthly intervals . at every epoch ,",
    "each pulsar was observed for approximately @xmath29 minutes each using two different radio telescope receivers at widely separated frequencies .",
    "such dual - receiver observations allow for measurement and removal of interstellar and solar - system dispersive effects .",
    "( in a small number of cases , dual - receiver observations were not available , but single - receiver observations were made over a wide observing band . )",
    "observations in early years of the project used the astronomical signal processor ( asp ) at ao and the green bank astronomical signal processor ( gasp ) at the gbt ; each sampled up to 64  mhz bandwidth , depending on telescope receiver capability . in the later years",
    ", observations used the puerto rican ultimate pulsar processor ( puppi ) at ao and the green bank ultimate pulsar processor ( guppi ) at the gbt ; each provided up to 800  mhz bandwidth , again depending on telescope receiver capability .",
    "the data were polarization - calibrated , cleaned of radio frequency interference , and analyzed to produce toas using a standardized pipeline ] that made extensive use of the psrchive software package @xcite .",
    "the sets of toas were fit to timing models using the tempo and tempo2 packages .",
    "we found that these packages yielded essentially identical results , and we used tempo for the work in the present paper .",
    "the timing models contain standard spin - down , astrometric , and ( where appropriate ) binary models .",
    "the astrometric parameter measurements are the basis for the present paper and are described in more detail in ",
    "[ sec : measurements ] .",
    "criteria for inclusion of specific parameters in the timing model for each pulsar are given in @xcite .",
    "in the timing analysis , earth motion around the solar - system barycenter was modeled using the jpl de421 planetary ephemeris @xcite .",
    "toas were measured using hydrogen - maser clocks at the observatories and were transformed to universal time and then to barycentric dynamical time using standard techniques .",
    "separate values of dispersion measure were fit independently at every observing epoch , with a few exceptions ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "this results in timing parameter uncertainties that are larger than would be found using smoothed dispersion measure models , but is necessary to avoid contamination of our results by variations in interstellar and solar wind dispersion .",
    "the latter , in particular , is not easily modeled , and is highly covariant with the astrometric parameters of interest to this paper .",
    "a novel noise model was used to account for any aspects of the timing data that did not fit the standard timing model within the expected measurement uncertainties .",
    "the noise model incorporated white noise , correlated noise in simultaneously collected toas , and red noise ( as needed for a few sources ) .",
    "details are given in @xcite .",
    "the full data set , including toas and timing parameters of all pulsars , is available online .",
    "we made a small number of modifications to the nanograv nine - year data set for the present work .",
    "the data sets of psrs j1741 + 1351 , j1853 + 1303 , j1910 + 1256 ,",
    "j1944 + 0907 , and b1953 + 29 contain lengthy spans in which observations were made using only a single , narrow - band receiver , eliminating the possibility of monitoring and correcting for dispersion measure variation over those spans .",
    "we excised the toa measurements from those data spans .",
    "we re - evaluated the timing models for these pulsars using the remaining toas , following the same guidelines used by @xcite for noise models , parameter inclusion , etc .",
    "the timing solution for psr j2317 + 1439 in the nanograv nine - year data release included secular variations of the laplace - lagrange orbital elements , which are formally significant in the fit , but which are physically implausible .",
    "we removed those parameters from the timing solution .",
    "we then re - evaluated the timing model using the guidelines of @xcite , following which we added shapiro delay parameters ( now significant ) and eliminated the secular variation in the projected orbital semi - major axis ( now not significant ) .",
    "details of the analysis of this and other binaries will be given in a forthcoming paper ( fonseca et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "the modified timing solutions used for this paper are bundled with the nanograv nine - year data release files .",
    "the timing analysis of the nanograv nine - year data set parameterizes pulsar positions in ecliptic coordinates .",
    "these are natural coordinates for pulsar timing astrometry , as ecliptic longitude and latitude are nearly orthogonal parameters in the timing fit .",
    "table  [ tab : equatorial ] lists the ecliptic and equatorial positions of all of the pulsars in the data set .",
    "the epoch of each position was chosen near the middle of its data set in order to minimize covariance between position and proper motion parameters .",
    "the reference frame for these position measurements is the reference frame of jpl planetary ephemeris de421 , which is oriented to the international celestial reference frame @xcite .",
    "the ephemeris coordinates were transformed into ecliptic coordinates by a rotation of @xmath30 , the iers2010 obliquity of the ecliptic .    for observational convenience , table  [ tab : equatorial ]",
    "also lists the positions in equatorial coordinates .",
    "the equatorial positions were determined by fitting timing solutions without rotating the planetary ephemeris into ecliptic coordinates .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : position_covariance ] , uncertainties in equatorial coordinates are generally larger than uncertainties in ecliptic coordinates .",
    "this is particularly true when one ecliptic coordinate is measured much more precisely than the other ( e.g. , for pulsars along the ecliptic ) .      proper motion , @xmath31 and @xmath32 ,",
    "was included in the timing model for 35 of the 37 pulsars in our data set .",
    "the two pulsars for which proper motion was excluded have less than one year of timing measurements in our data set , making it impossible to measure their proper motions .",
    "lengths of all of the data sets are given in table  [ tab : propmo ] .",
    "the proper motions from timing analyses in both ecliptic and equatorial coordinates are listed in table  [ tab : propmo ] . as with the position measurements ,",
    "ecliptic coordinates provide the best separation of proper motion into orthogonal components , and hence the smallest uncertainties .",
    "the table also includes proper motions in galactic coordinates .",
    "the best previous proper motion measurements in ecliptic coordinates are listed in table  [ tab : propmo ] .",
    "all the new and previous measurements agree to within @xmath33 except for two pulsars ( psrs  j1909@xmath03744 and j2145@xmath00750 ) which have discrepancies between @xmath33 and @xmath34 for at least one component of proper motion .",
    "the proper motions of these two pulsars are known to high precision , and these small discrepancies have little practical impact . we speculate that the differences may be due to differences in dispersion measure variation models ( as we discuss for parallax measurements in   [ sec : pxcomparison ] ) , or differences in solar system ephemerides used in the timing analysis .",
    "our measured proper motions are illustrated in figure  [ fig : galactic_velocity ] .",
    "we discuss the derivation of two- and three - dimensional space velocities from these proper motions in ",
    "[ sec : mspvelocities ] .",
    "we included parallax , @xmath35 , as a free parameter in the timing model for each pulsar , whether or not the measurement was statistically significant .",
    "the timing analysis allowed both negative and positive parallaxes .",
    "although negative parallaxes are non - physical , allowing them in the timing solutions provides a useful a check on the reliability of the measurements (  [ sec : pxlowsignificance ] ) .",
    "the measured parallax values are listed in table  [ tab : px ] and shown in figure  [ fig : px ] .",
    "previous measurements for these pulsars are also included in the table and figure .",
    "there were no previously reported parallax measurements or limits for 20 of the 37 pulsars .",
    "of these 20 sources , two provided significant new parallax measurements : psr  j1918@xmath00642 , @xmath36mas ; and psr  j2043 + 1711 , @xmath37mas .      of the 17 pulsars with previous measurements or limits , we improved the precision of four measurements by a factor of two or better : psrs j0030 + 0451 , j0613@xmath00200 , j1600@xmath03053 , and j1614@xmath02230 .    for psr  j1713",
    "+ 0747 , in addition to the previous timing parallax value of 0.94(5 ) given in table  [ tab : px ] , there are two other previous measurements of interest .",
    "one is from an analysis of 21 years of data from this pulsar by @xcite , which obtained a parallax of @xmath38 mas , identical to our own measurement .",
    "this is not surprising , as the vast majority of the toas in the @xcite analysis were from the same nanograv nine - year data set that is being used for the present work .",
    "the other previous parallax measurement of j  1713 + 0747 is from the interferometric vlba measurements of @xcite , which obtained @xmath39 mas , in reasonable agreement ( @xmath40 ) with our value .    in most other cases",
    ", our parallax values also agree with previous measurements . however , there are discrepancies of 2@xmath41 or more ( i.e. , disagreement at 95% confidence ) between our measurements and the previous measurements for three sources : psrs j1643@xmath01224 , b1855 + 09 , and j1909@xmath03744 .",
    "a possible explanation for these discrepancies is the difference in treatment of dispersion measure ( dm ) variations .",
    "small variations in the ionized component of the interstellar medium and the solar wind along the pulsar ",
    "earth line - of - sight significantly affect toas . to minimize contamination of the timing analysis from dm variations on the half - yearly time scale of the parallax signal ( as well as other time scales of interest to pulsar modeling ) , we fit for dm at every epoch of observation .",
    "since the dm variations are covariant with the parallax signal in the timing fit , this increases formal uncertainties on our parallax measurements , but it also makes the measurements more robust .    the previous parallax analysis of two of the discrepant sources  psrs",
    "j1643@xmath01224 , and b1855 + 09assumed a constant value of dm over the entire data set ( see references in table  [ tab : px ] ) .",
    "the third , psr  j1909@xmath03744 @xcite , used the smoothed dm time series model of @xcite , which includes a smoothing time scale longer than the half - year period of the parallax signature in the timing model . to test the effect of using constant or smoothed dm variation models , we ran trials of timing analyses of these sources fitting ( i ) a constant dm and ( ii ) a model of dm as a up - to - fifth - order polynomial in time over the entire data sets .",
    "these tests yielded changes in measured parallax values by amounts ranging from @xmath42 to @xmath43 , with three of the four values moving by at least @xmath44 .",
    "we therefore believe that limited dm variation modeling is a plausible explanation for the discrepancies between previously measured parallax values and our measurements .",
    "the timing analyses of a majority of the pulsars we analyzed did not yield significant parallax detections . to illustrate the nature of these non - detections , we sorted the pulsars by parallax measurement significance , @xmath45 , and plotted the cumulative distribution of these values in figure  [ fig : px_cdf ] .",
    "of the 37 parallax measurements , 12 are significant positive detections of parallax , @xmath46 .",
    "no sources had significant negative detections of parallax , @xmath47 .",
    "( although negative parallax values are unphysical , corresponding to pulse wavefronts with concave rather than convex curvature relative to the pulsar , they were allowed in the timing analysis .",
    "a significant negative parallax measurement would indicate a problem with the data or the timing model . ) of the 25 pulsars with non - detections , only 7 measurements are negative , all but two within @xmath44 of zero , and the remaining 18 are positive .",
    "this bias toward positive values indicates that most of these are indeed real , physical measurements , and significant parallax values should be attainable for many of them with only moderately larger data sets .",
    "we now use the parallaxes in table  [ tab : px ] to analyze distances to 30 of the 37 pulsars .",
    "the timing data sets of the other 7 pulsars span less than 2 years , which is typically not sufficient time to disentangle position , proper motion , and parallax in the timing analysis .",
    "indeed , none of these sources had nominally significant parallax measurements , and 3 of them had negative parallaxes .    for the 12 pulsars with significant parallax measurements , @xmath48 , we calculated distances as listed in the upper portion of table  [ tab : pxlimits ] . for each of these pulsars ,",
    "the central distance value , upper limit , and lower limit given in the table were calculated using @xmath49 , where @xmath35 was the 84% , 50% , and 16% points in the measured parallax distribution , respectively , corresponding to the 16% , 50% and 84% points in the distance distribution .",
    "for the 18 remaining pulsars , we used 95% confidence upper limits on parallax to compute 95% confidence lower limits on distance . to find the upper limits on parallax",
    ", we first verified that changes in assumed parallax values in the timing solution yielded changes in goodness - of - fit @xmath50 values appropriate for parallax values drawn from a gaussian distribution .",
    "we then found the 95% confidence upper limits on @xmath35 by calculating the value of @xmath35 at which 95% of the area under the gaussian distribution of the parallax was at lower values , but restricting the integral to positive values of parallax .",
    "the resulting parallax limits are listed in table [ tab : pxlimits ] . the corresponding @xmath51 confidence lower limit on distance for each source",
    "was then calculated to be the reciprocal of this value .",
    "these are also listed in table [ tab : pxlimits ] .",
    "the lutz - kelker bias @xcite may be significant for the distance measurements of pulsars with large uncertainties on parallax .",
    "the bias can be incorporated as a correction to parallax and distance values through methods outlined by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the bayesian analysis used under these methods assumes a uniform prior distribution of a pulsar s position throughout three - dimensional space .",
    "since there is more three - dimensional space at larger distances than at smaller distances , this has the effect of moving the posterior distribution of a pulsar s distance to values larger than that calculated from @xmath49 .",
    "this is problematic for pulsars for which there are only upper limits on parallax , as this allows a finite probability of @xmath52 , which corresponds to infinitely large distances , at which there is infinite parameter space . to achieve a tractable result ,",
    "some additional prior must be invoked to cut off the likelihood of the pulsar being at a large distance .",
    "one possibility is to use a model of the galactic distribution of millisecond pulsars , but we want our results to stand independent of _ a priori _ beliefs about the galactic distribution of millisecond pulsars ; further , we found that attempts to use prior galactic distribution models tended to give results that were dominated by the details of the model .",
    "another possibility is to model the sensitivity of pulsar search programs , which find nearby pulsars more readily than distant pulsars ; however , we found that use of such a prior gave results that were highly dependent on the choice of millisecond pulsar luminosity distribution , which is not well known .    for these reasons , we elected not to apply any corrections to the distances in table  [ tab : pxlimits ] . for sources for which we give lower limits on distances ( lower portion of table  [ tab : pxlimits ] ) , this is a conservative approach from a lutz - kelker perspective , in the sense that the lutz - kelker bias would place these pulsars still further than our lower - limit distances .",
    "for the twelve sources for which we give distance measurements ( upper portion of table  [ tab : pxlimits ] ) , we tested the effect of lutz - kelker corrections by running the measurements through the lutz - kelker bias code from @xcite .",
    "we found the differences in calculated distances to be small ; for example , six of the central distance measurement values were unchanged , and the other six all changed by less than @xmath44 ( typically much less ) .",
    "in addition to timing parallax , there are other means by which distances can be inferred from pulsar timing .",
    "one such approach uses the observed properties of binary pulsars .",
    "the observed orbital period , @xmath53 , of a binary pulsar undergoes a time change @xmath54 due to mass loss from the system ( negligible here ) , general relativistic phenomena , and kinematic effects @xcite , @xmath55 the relativistic term , @xmath56 , is the orbital decay due to emission of gravitational radiation , which depends on the component masses and other orbital elements .",
    "the kinematic term , @xmath57 , is due to the relative acceleration of the binary system and the sun , which causes changes in the doppler shift of the observed period .",
    "the relevant expression from @xcite , here modified to apply to pulsars off the galactic plane @xcite , is @xmath58 where the terms on the right hand side are as follows .",
    "the first term is the acceleration of the binary system in the galactic potential perpendicular to the disk , @xmath59 , which depends on the perpendicular distance @xmath60 , where @xmath61 is the galactic latitude , and @xmath62 is the speed of light .",
    "the second term is the line - of - sight acceleration due to differential rotation in the galaxy ; here @xmath63 is the galactocentric distance of the solar system ; @xmath64 is the circular rotation speed of the galaxy at @xmath63 ; @xmath65 is the galactic longitude ; and @xmath66 .",
    "the third term is the apparent acceleration due to proper motion @xcite .",
    "each of these terms depends on the distance to the pulsar ; as @xcite pointed out , given a measurement @xmath67 and a calculated @xmath68 , one can solve equations  [ eqn : pbdot1 ] and  [ eqn : pbdot2 ] to infer the distance to the pulsar .",
    "this method has been used to compute high - precision distances to psrs j0437 - 4715 @xcite and b1534 + 12 @xcite . in cases where the measurement of @xmath54 is marginal or not significant",
    ", this method can be used to place an upper limit on the pulsar distance .",
    "there are 25 binary pulsars in the nanograv nine - year data set .",
    "a full analysis of these systems will be presented in fonseca et al .",
    "( in preparation ) . for the present work",
    ", we considered 22 of these pulsars which have been observed for at least two years .",
    "for each of these ,",
    "we ( i ) fit for @xmath69 in the timing solution of the pulsar , ( ii ) calculated the expected @xmath69 as a function of distance according to equations  [ eqn : pbdot1 ] and  [ eqn : pbdot2 ] , ( iii ) compared the calculated @xmath69 values with the measured value and its uncertainty to find a probability associated with that distance , and ( iv ) used the probabilities to calculate either the distance and its uncertainty or a 95% upper limit on the distance . for the @xmath69 calculations ,",
    "the gr term is negligible for wide binary systems ; for tight binaries , we estimated @xmath70 using masses from analysis of the shapiro delay in each system ( fonseca et al .",
    ", in prep ) , except for the case of psr  j1012 + 5307 , where we used masses derived from the optical measurements of @xcite . for the acceleration toward the galactic disk , @xmath71",
    ", we used the model of the galactic potential given in equation 17 of @xcite , based on the galactic potential of @xcite ; other galactic potential models , such as that of @xcite , give essentially identical results .",
    "we used @xmath72  kpc and @xmath64=240  km  s@xmath4  @xcite . for the proper motion term in the @xmath69 calculations",
    ", we used the proper motions given in table  [ tab : propmo ] .",
    "we found that 15 of the 22 pulsars had distance upper limits greater than 15  kpc .",
    "since such limits are of little interest , and since this is beyond any reasonable extrapolation of the galactic rotation and acceleration models , we did not analyze these further .",
    "of the seven remaining pulsars , we measured significant distance constraints ( at least @xmath73 ) for two sources , and we placed distance upper limits on the other five sources ( @xmath74 in table  [ tab : pbdotdistances ] . ) in all cases , these measurements are consistent with the distance measurements or limits we found via parallax measurement ( table  [ tab : pxlimits ] ) .",
    "the most precise @xmath69 distance measurement is that of psr  j1909@xmath03744 , @xmath75  kpc .",
    "this is a good match for our parallax distance of @xmath76  kpc . the best previous parallax measurement , @xmath77  mas ( @xmath73 , * ? ?",
    "* ) gave a somewhat larger distance of @xmath78  kpc ( @xmath44 , * ? ? ?",
    "as discussed above , we suggest the difference between previous and presently measured parallaxes may result from differences in the dispersion measure model used in the timing analysis .",
    "the distance derived from @xmath69 is relatively impervious to changes in the dispersion measure model , so it provides a good verification of our parallax distance measurement .",
    "finally , we note that @xmath69 values of two sources , psrs j1012 + 5307 and j1713 + 0747 , have been measured more precisely than in the present paper @xcite . those works focused on the use of @xmath69 measurements to test relativistic gravity rather than measuring distances .",
    "using those @xmath69 measurements in our distance algorithms above gives distance upper limits of @xmath79  kpc and @xmath80  kpc , for psrs  j1012 + 5307 and j1713 + 0747 , respectively .",
    "these constraints , while weak , are consistent with our parallax distance measurements and limits .",
    "another set of constraints on pulsar distances arises from their spin - down rates @xcite .",
    "a variant on equation  [ eqn : pbdot1 ] can be applied to a pulsar rotation period , @xmath81 , and spin - down rate , @xmath82 . the observed spin - down rate , @xmath83 depends on both the intrinsic spin - down rate , @xmath84 , and kinematic corrections : @xmath85 the kinematic term , @xmath86 , obeys the same expression as equation  [ eqn : pbdot2 ] , substituting rotational for orbital parameters , @xmath87 if we presume that millisecond pulsars are powered by rotational energy loss , then @xmath88 . from this",
    ", equation  [ eqn : pdot1 ] implies @xmath89 , so the observed spin parameters place an upper limit on this kinematic term .",
    "the right hand side of equation  [ eqn : pdot2 ] is generally a monotonically increasing function of distance , so the upper limit on @xmath86 sets an upper limit on distance .",
    "we used equations  [ eqn : pdot1 ] and  [ eqn : pdot2 ] to place upper limits on distances to the 30 pulsars in the nanograv nine - year data set that have been observed for at least 2 years , so that they have well - measured proper motions .",
    "we used the galactic rotation and acceleration parameters described in  [ sec : pbdotdistances ] .",
    "we found that 12 of these pulsars had distance limits greater than 15  kpc ; we did not pursue these further .",
    "the spin - down distance limits , @xmath90 , of the remaining 17 pulsars are listed in table  [ tab : pdotdistances].3744 , in addition to the distance range allowed by the entry in the table  [ tab : pdotdistances ] , 0 to 1.375  kpc , there are additional allowed solutions at @xmath91  kpc , where the flat galactic rotation curve model implies very large accelerations . since this pulsar",
    "is well established to be much closer than 9  kpc , we do not include this solution in the table . ]",
    "most of the spin - down distance constraints agree with the distances derived from parallax measurements .",
    "indeed , all of the parallax distances measured with at least 3@xmath41 precision ( table  [ tab : pxlimits ] ) fall within the spin - down distance limit constraints ( table  [ tab : pdotdistances ] ) .",
    "the pulsar for which the spin - down distance limit comes closest to the parallax distance is psr  j1909@xmath92 , for which the spin - down limit is @xmath93  kpc and the parallax distance is @xmath94  kpc , providing a good check on the parallax distance .    for the pulsars for which we have only an upper limit on parallax , and therefore a lower limit on distance ( table  [ tab : pxlimits ] ) , all but one are in agreement with the spin - down distance limits .",
    "in these cases , the pair of distance constraints bracket the actual distance to the pulsar .    for psr  j1024@xmath00719 ,",
    "the spin - down distance upper limit , @xmath95  kpc , disagrees with the parallax distance lower limit , @xmath96  kpc .",
    "this is perplexing .",
    "the spin - down distance limit should be robust , presuming that the pulsar is losing energy and not subject to external acceleration .",
    "we have run several tests on our parallax measurement , and we consistently find low parallax upper limits ( i.e. , large distance lower limits ) .",
    "we discuss this source further in appendix  [ app : j1024 ] .",
    "in figures [ fig : sigpxvsdm ] and [ fig : pxlimitvsdm ] , we compare our measured distances and limits with the predictions of the ne2001 galactic electron density model @xcite given the measured dms of these pulsars .",
    "note that previous parallax measurements or limits for psrs  j1713 + 0747 , j1744 - 1134 ,",
    "b1855 + 09 , and b1937 + 21 were used as input data to the ne2001 model , generally with much larger uncertainties than in the present work ( j. cordes , private communication ) .",
    "we find that , in large part , distances predicted based upon dispersion measure and the ne2001 model were in agreement with parallax derived distances and limits . among the pulsars for which we have distance measurements ( not just limits ) ,",
    "there were only two pulsars for which there is no possible distance that is both within the @xmath73 parallax distance measurement range and within @xmath97 of the ne2001 distance prediction , psrs j1614@xmath02230 and j1909@xmath03744 ( figure  [ fig : sigpxvsdm ] ) .",
    "in the case of parallax distance lower limits , the ne2001 electron density model fared equally as well .",
    "apart from a few outlying pulsars , the limits were not too far from the distance derived via dispersion measure and the ne2001 model .",
    "we calculated the dispersion measures for which the ne2001 model yields the distance measurements we derived from parallax . for psr j1614@xmath02230 , the dispersion measure required for agreement would shift from @xmath98 to @xmath99 , and for psr j1909@xmath03744 it would shift from @xmath100 to @xmath101 .",
    "recent work on the galactic electron distribution can be found in , e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , and references therein .",
    "new and refined pulsar distance measurements can contribute to this effort .",
    "for example , @xcite reported that ne2001 underestimated distances to some pulsars at high galactic latitudes , implying the need for a larger disk scale height or disk electron density ( see also * ? ? ? * ) . in figure",
    "[ fig : pxdm_gb ] , we plot @xmath102 vs. galactic latitude .",
    "no trends are apparent in our measurements , though we have fewer high galactic latitude sources than @xcite and are limited by small number statistics . for those pulsars with dispersion distances that did not agree within two standard deviations of the parallax - derived measurements",
    ", we find no correlation between their sky positions .",
    "the sources that disagree are at varying galactic longitudes , although all are greater than @xmath103 from the galactic plane .",
    "to analyze the kinematics of the millisecond pulsars , we used the measured proper motions and distances to calculate velocity vectors in galactocentric coordinates at the pulsars standards of rest . because there are not line - of - sight velocity measurements for most pulsars , complete three - dimensional velocity vectors are not obtainable , and our analysis for such pulsars uses only velocity components that are close to orthogonal to the line - of - sight",
    "; we describe this further below .    for this analysis , we used both measurements from the present work and previously reported measurements found in the literature .",
    "we included all millisecond pulsars for which proper motions were available with 5@xmath41 significance in two orthogonal components .",
    "when available , we used our proper motion measurements ( table  [ tab : propmo ] ) ; for psrs  j1012 + 5307 , j1738 + 0333 , and j1949 + 3106 , although they are included among our measurements , higher - precision measurements are available in the literature . for these and other pulsars",
    ", we used the values listed in table  [ tab : propmo_nonnanograv ] .    for distances , we used measured parallax distances with 3@xmath41 or greater significance from our measurements ( table  [ tab : pxlimits ] ) or from the literature ( table  [ tab : px_nonnanograv ] ) . for pulsars without parallax distances , we estimated distances from dispersion measures and the ne2001 electron density model .    for each pulsar , we calculated a two - dimensional velocity in the reference frame of the sun and transformed it to the galactocentric coordinates at the location of the pulsar . for this transformation , we used solar motion @xmath104 , @xmath105 , and @xmath106 , @xcite , and we used solar galactocentric distance @xmath107 and galactic rotation velocity @xmath108 @xcite .",
    "the line - of - sight ( los ) velocity has been measured via optical observations for three pulsars of interest ( table  [ tab : los_velocity ] ) , allowing three - dimensional galactocentric velocities to be calculated for these pulsars . for the remaining pulsars , we calculated and removed the line - of - sight velocity expected for the pulsar if at rest in its standard of rest .",
    "this los correction is only a reasonable approximation for components of the galactocentric velocity that are nearly perpendicular to the los . in the calculations below",
    ", we only include measurements of galactocentric velocity components that are at least @xmath109 from the direction of the los to the pulsar .",
    "using the algorithm and criteria describe above , we calculated galactic radial velocities of 18 pulsars ( figure  [ fig : rv_los ] ) , azimuthal velocities of 12 pulsars ( figure  [ fig : azimuthv_los ] ) , and perpendicular velocities of 28 pulsars ( figure [ fig : zv_los ] ) .",
    "the component values included in each velocity dispersion calculation are listed in table  [ tab : velocity ] .",
    "using the values in table  [ tab : velocity ] , we find the dispersions of these velocity measurements to be : @xmath110 visual examination suggests that there are four outliers in the velocity component distributions : psrs b1957 + 20 ( @xmath17 , figure  [ fig : rv_los ] ) ; j1909@xmath03744 ( @xmath111 , figure  [ fig : azimuthv_los ] ) ; and j1944 + 0907 and j0610 - 2100 ( @xmath19 , figure  [ fig : zv_los ] ) .",
    "we used the median absolute deviation as a robust method , under the assumption of a gaussian velocity distribution , to test whether these points are outliers @xcite . for each pulsar",
    ", we calculated @xmath112 , where @xmath113 is the velocity component of the pulsar of interest , @xmath114 is the median of all such measurements , and mad is the median absolute deviation .",
    "we obtained values of @xmath115 , @xmath116 , @xmath117 , and @xmath118 for psrs  b1957 + 20 , j1909@xmath03744 , j1944 + 0907 , and j0610 - 2100 , respectively .",
    "based on the criterion @xmath119 , we argue that these are indeed outliers .",
    "we discuss possible physical mechanisms for such outliers in section [ sec : conclusion ] .",
    "if we exclude these three outlier pulsars from all velocity dispersion calculations , the dispersions of the velocity measurements are : @xmath120 using these dispersions , psr  b1957 + 20 is @xmath121 sigma from the mean , psr  j1909@xmath03744 is @xmath116 sigma from the mean , psr  j1944 + 0907 is @xmath122 sigma from the mean , and psr  j0610 - 2100 is @xmath123 sigma from the mean , reinforcing their status as outliers .    a possible concern with the velocity dispersion measurements is selection effects due to non - uniform sky coverage of pulsar surveys .",
    "search programs such as the palfa @xcite and pmb @xcite surveys have concentrated on low galactic latitudes . as an old population ,",
    "millisecond pulsars found close to @xmath124 are more likely to have smaller velocities in the direction away from the plane .",
    "thus , surveys focusing on the galactic plane might be susceptible to biased velocity distributions . however , there is no similar reason to expect azimuthal or radial velocity distributions to be susceptible to such selection effects , so the latter components are more robust measurements of the true underlying kinematics of the millisecond pulsar population .",
    "velocity dispersions of other stellar populations in the galaxy are observed to have @xmath125 , with typical ratios",
    "@xmath26 and @xmath27 @xcite .",
    "the velocity dispersions of equation  [ eqn : disp_exclude ] ( outliers excluded ) follow this pattern , suggesting that these calculated dispersions are relatively free of bias due to pulsar search selection effects and hence represent the intrinsic velocity dispersions of this population .",
    "the velocity dispersions of equation  [ eqn : disp_all ] ( all measurements ) do nt strictly follow these patterns : they have @xmath126 , and @xmath127 is a bit higher than for typical stellar populations .",
    "however , this could easily be a case of small - number statistics : removing a single high - velocity source from the @xmath24 calculation would bring these numbers into alignment with other stellar populations .",
    "previous works have studied the velocities distributions for isolated and binary millisecond pulsars and found no significant difference @xcite . to test whether there exists a difference in velocities between isolated and binary millisecond pulsars with our new proper motion values , we calculated the radial , azimuthal and perpendicular velocity dispersions for each subpopulation , recognizing that small number statistics allow only a rough comparison .",
    "we obtained velocity dispersions of 55 and 43  km  s@xmath4  for the radial velocity dispersions of isolated and binary millisecond pulsars , respectively .",
    "we obtained dispersions of 33 and 42  km  s@xmath4  for the isolated and binary azimuthal velocity dispersions and 18 and 25  km  s@xmath4  for the isolated and binary perpendicular velocity dispersions . in all cases",
    "the similarities between the isolated and binary dispersion values imply there is little to no difference between the two subpopulations .",
    "these calculations excluded the outliers described above . including the outliers for each velocity component significantly changes the dispersions .",
    "since the binary and isolated dispersions are calculated separately , including an outlier only affects either isolated or binary pulsar dispersion for a given component . for the radial component ,",
    "the binary dispersion becomes 87  km  s@xmath4 .",
    "for the azimuthal component , the binary dispersion becomes 63  km  s@xmath4 .",
    "for the perpendicular component , the isolated dispersion becomes 72  km  s@xmath4and the binary dispersion becomes 55  km  s@xmath4 .",
    "the consistency between the binary and isolated dispersions when the outliers are excluded , and the inconsistency ( with no underlying pattern ) when the outliers are included lends itself well to arguing that these pulsars are indeed outliers .",
    "millisecond pulsars are an old population .",
    "characteristic spin - down ages , @xmath128 , of the pulsars in the nanograv nine - year data set calculated using the observed spin parameters range from 0.2 to 29  gyr , with a median of 5  gyr . correcting for kinematic effects to estimate intrinsic spin - down ages (  [ sec : pdotdistances ] )",
    "gives larger ages : 0.2 to 46  gyr with a median of 8  gyr for the 30 of our pulsars with more than two years of data ( and hence well - measured proper motions , as needed for the kinematic correction ) .",
    "obviously , pulsars can not be older than a hubble time ; some , perhaps all of these ages must be overestimates , which is easily explained if millisecond pulsar spin periods at formation are not much shorter than their present - day spin periods ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "nevertheless , it seems reasonable to assume that millisecond pulsars are typically at least several gyr old .",
    "we will use ages of @xmath129 and 10  gyr in the comparisons below .",
    "velocity dispersions of stellar populations are well known to correlate with age ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , with younger stars described as a thin disk and older stars described as a thick disk , although the mechanism behind the correlation is not well established ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite pointed out that the diffusion of millisecond pulsars into a thick disk contributes a significant portion of their observed velocities . here",
    "we consider our millisecond pulsar velocity dispersion measurements in the context of dispersion - age relations developed from studies of optical stellar populations .",
    "a caveat to this comparison is that optical stellar population modeling tends to use stars in the solar neighborhood , whereas our millisecond pulsar population is spread over a larger volume .",
    "nevertheless , we have already seen that the ratios @xmath130 for millisecond pulsars follow those of other stellar populations , so it seems plausible that the magnitudes of the dispersions may be comparable as well .",
    "@xcite use local stellar data to fit equations of the form @xmath131^{\\beta}$ ] for each component of velocity dispersion . for radial , azimuthal , and perpendicular components",
    ", they found @xmath132 , 0.430 , and 0.445 ; @xmath133 , 0.715 , and 0.001 ; and @xmath134 , 28.823 , and 23.831  km  s@xmath4 , respectively .",
    "for an age of @xmath135 , this gives @xmath136  km  s@xmath4 , @xmath137  km  s@xmath4 , and @xmath138  km  s@xmath4 .",
    "for an age of @xmath139 , it gives @xmath140  km  s@xmath4 , @xmath141  km  s@xmath4 , and @xmath142  km  s@xmath4 .",
    "@xcite , fit an equation to binned @xmath143-velocity vs.  age data and find an empirical relation @xmath144  km  s@xmath4 . for ages of @xmath129 and 10  gyr , this gives @xmath145  km  s@xmath4and 30  km  s@xmath4respectively .    for typical millisecond pulsar ages ,",
    "then , the velocity dispersions from the model of @xcite are only modestly different than our velocity dispersions in the measurements that exclude outliers ( equation  [ eqn : disp_exclude ] ) , and the velocity dispersions of @xcite are a nearly perfect match .    we conclude that , if this characterization of millisecond pulsar kinematics as a gaussian velocity distribution with a small number of outliers is correct , then the bulk of these objects need essentially no velocity boost to reach their observed velocities , since they are comparable to other stars of similar ages .",
    "it is generally accepted that most neutron stars receive a kick at birth ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "when the neutron star has a stellar - mass companion , the resulting space motion of the center of mass will generally be smaller than in the case of an isolated neutron star due to the mass of the binary .",
    "however , the observed outliers in our sample could be the result of fortuitously directed kicks that produce significant center - of - mass velocities .",
    "furthermore , it has been proposed that o - ne - mg - core stars undergo electron capture supernovae with small velocity kicks , whereas iron - core stars undergo supernovae with large velocity kicks @xcite .",
    "this dichotomy may also contribute to our observed velocity distribution .",
    "on the other hand , if the outlier model is incorrect , and the velocity dispersions in equation  [ eqn : disp_all ] are a more appropriate measure of the millisecond pulsar population , then their velocities are moderately larger than other stars of similar ages , but a significant portion of their velocities must still be attributable to the same mechanism that increases other stellar velocities over time ( whatever that mechanism is ) .    in either model ,",
    "unlike canonical pulsars , millisecond pulsar velocities are very low , and require small velocity boosts at most during their formation .",
    "we have measured and refined distances to twelve millisecond pulsars and found distance limits on eighteen more ( table [ tab : pxlimits ] ) .",
    "these distances will find uses in a variety of applications , from the physics of pulsars themselves ( e.g. , the distance is needed if using a measured flux density to calculate its luminosity ) , to the analysis of the ionized interstellar medium . in  [ sec : ne2001 ] we focused on the latter application and found the distances predicted by the ne2001 electron density model in general agreement with those calculated from parallax .    for 7 of the 37 nanograv millisecond pulsars , we also calculated distance or a @xmath51 upper limit on distance from the change in orbital period , @xmath69 .",
    "this independent calculation of distance is in good agreement with the distances derived from parallax . as an additional independent method of calculating distances , we derived upper limits on distance for 17 of the nanograv millisecond pulsars from the rotational spin down rate , @xmath146 .",
    "apart from psr j1024@xmath00719 (  [ app : j1024 ] ) , these upper limits are in agreement with the parallax distances and @xmath51 lower limits .",
    "we have measured proper motions of 35 millisecond pulsars .",
    "we used 30 of these ( from pulsars observed for more than two years ) , in combination with distance estimates and measurements found in the literature , to analyze pulsar motion in galactocentric coordinates .",
    "we found the velocity dispersion components to follow similar proportions as other stellar populations ( equations  [ eqn : disp_all ] and  [ eqn : disp_exclude ] ) .",
    "we propose two mathematical models of the velocity dispersion magnitudes . in one model",
    ", the bulk of the millisecond pulsar population has essentially the same velocity distribution as other stellar populations with ages of several gyr , and a small number of pulsars are high - speed outliers .",
    "we speculate that the outlier velocities could be due to fortuitously directed kicks during neutron - star formation , though we can not rule out either a different formation mechanism than the bulk of the millisecond pulsar population or an origin in a different dynamical population ( e.g. , halo stars ) . in the other model ,",
    "the millisecond pulsars come from a single velocity distribution , which has dispersion much smaller than canonical pulsars , but moderately larger than other stellar populations with ages of several gyr . in this model ,",
    "the pulsar velocities derive from a combination of their dynamical origin as thick disk objects and from modest velocity boosts during millisecond pulsar formation , presumably at the time they were formed as neutron stars in supernovae .",
    "our goal has been to develop an empirical description of millisecond pulsar dynamics based on measured pulsar parameters alone .",
    "a more comprehensive study would take into account the directions and sensitivities of pulsar search programs , the luminosity distribution of millisecond pulsars , millisecond pulsar birth locations and dynamical evolution , lutz - kelker bias , uncertainties in the dispersion distance model , and so on .",
    "such studies are typically done via monte carlo simulations ; see @xcite for an overview and further references .",
    "a conclusion from the present work is that the analysis of velocities in such studies should take into account the significant dispersion in millisecond pulsar velocities due simply to their large ages , and that the separation of velocities into galactocentric components ( not just total velocities ) is important .    _",
    "author contributions . _",
    "the paper evolved from the undergraduate senior thesis of amm , supervised by djn .",
    "amm undertook the bulk of the calculations ; generated most of the text , figures , and tables ; and coordinated the development of the paper .",
    "djn contributed additional text , figures , tables , and analysis , including the appendix on psr  j1024@xmath00719 .",
    "ef contributed text and calculations to the binary distance analysis section .",
    "this paper is based on positions , proper motions , and parallaxes derived from the nanograv nine - year data set @xcite .",
    "za , kc , pbd , td , rdf , ef , meg , gj , mj , mtl , ll , mam , djn , ttp , smr , ihs , ks , jks , and wwz all ran observations and analyzed timing models for this data set .",
    "additional specific contributions to the data set are summarized in @xcite ; here we note the particularly critical contributions of pbd , who generated the toas and developed novel techniques for removing systematics from the data , and jae , who developed and implemented the noise model used in the timing analysis .",
    "we thank s.  chatterjee , j.  cordes , j.  verbiest , j.  lazio , and c.  ng for useful discussions and comments on the manuscript .",
    "the atnf pulsar catalogue @xcite , was an invaluable resource for this project , as was s.  chatterjee s online pulsar parallax list .",
    "the nanograv project receives support from national science foundation ( nsf ) pire program award number 0968296 and nsf physics frontier center award number 1430284 .",
    "nanograv research at ubc is supported by an nserc discovery grant and discovery accelerator supplement and the canadian institute for advanced research .",
    "part of this research was carried out at the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under a contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "tp was a student at the national radio astronomy observatory while this project was undertaken .",
    "mtl was partially supported by nasa new york space grant award number nnx15ak07h .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the nsf operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "the arecibo observatory is operated by sri international under a cooperative agreement with the nsf ( ast-1100968 ) , and in alliance with ana g. mndez - universidad metropolitana , and the universities space research association .",
    "natexlab#1#1    , a.  a. , ackermann , m. , atwood , w.  b. , et  al .",
    "2009 , , 699 , 1171    , a.  a. , ajello , m. , allafort , a. , et  al .",
    "2013 , , 208 , 17    , m.  a. , cheng , a.  f. , ruderman , m.  a. , & shaham , j. 1982 , , 300 , 728    , j. , van kerkwijk , m.  h. , koester , d. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 423 , 3316    , z. , fruchter , a.  s. , & taylor , j.  h. 1994 , , 426 , l85    , z. , brazier , a. , burke - spolaor , s. , et  al .",
    "2015 , arxiv e - prints , arxiv:1505.07540    , m. , & binney , j.  j. 2009 , , 397 , 1286    , e.  d. , guillemot , l. , champion , d.  j. , et  al .",
    "2013 , , 429 , 1633    bell , j.  f. , & bailes , m. 1996 , apj , 456 , l33    , j. , & merrifield , m. 1998 , galactic astronomy ( princeton university press )    , p.  j. , garnavich , p.  m. , & koester , d. 1998 , , 298 , 207    , f. , nice , d.  j. , shrauner , j.  a. , & taylor , j.  h. 1996 , , 469 , 819    , d.  j. , lorimer , d.  r. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , et  al .",
    "2005 , , 363 , 929    , s. , brisken , w.  f. , vlemmings , w.  h.  t. , et  al .",
    "2009 , , 698 , 250    , j.  m. 2013 , in iau symposium , vol .",
    "291 , iau symposium , ed .",
    "j.  van leeuwen , 211216    , j.  m. , & chernoff , d.  f. 1997 , , 482 , 971    , j.  m. , & lazio , t.  j.  w. 2002 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , astro - ph/0207156    damour , t. , & taylor , j.  h. 1991 , apj , 366 , 501    , s.  a. , & schrder , k .- p .",
    "2010 , , 404 , 917    , w. , & binney , j.  j. 1998 , , 298 , 387    , a.  t. , verbiest , j.  p.  w. , tingay , s.  j. , & bailes , m. 2008 , , 685 , l67    , a.  t. , archibald , a.  m. , brisken , w.  f. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 756 , l25    , j.  s. , freire , p.  c.  c. , cordes , j.  m. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 757 , 89    , y. , yang , j. , campbell , r.  m. , et  al .",
    "2014 , , 782 , l38    , c.  m. , guillemot , l. , elik , . , et  al .",
    "2013 , , 430 , 571    , w.  m. , williams , j.  g. , & boggs , d.  h. 2009 , interplanetary network progress report , 178 , c1    , e. , stairs , i.  h. , & thorsett , s.  e. 2014 , , 787 , 82    , p.  c.  c. , & tauris , t.  m. 2014 , , 438 , l86    , p.  c.  c. , bassa , c.  g. , wex , n. , et  al .",
    "2011 , , 412 , 2763    , p.  c.  c. , wex , n. , esposito - farse , g. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 423 , 3328    , m.  e. , stairs , i.  h. , ferdman , r.  d. , et  al .",
    "2011 , , 743 , 102    , l. , freire , p.  c.  c. , cognard , i. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 422 , 1294    , g. , lorimer , d.  r. , lyne , a.  g. , & kramer , m. 2005 , , 360 , 974    , j. , & flynn , c. 2004 , , 352 , 440    , a.  w. , bailes , m. , & ord , s.  m. 2006 , , 369 , 1502    , x. , smith , d.  a. , guillemot , l. , et  al . 2014 , , 570 , a44    , g.  h. , stappers , b.  w. , bassa , c.  g. , et  al .",
    "2010 , , 514 , a74    , m. , camilo , f. , johnson , t.  j. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 748 , l2    , j. , stocke , j.  t. , froning , c.  s. , gopakumar , a. , & joshi , b.  c. 2012 , , 744 , 183    , b. , & thorsett , s.  e. 2010 , , 715 , 335    , m. , & wolszczan , a. 2003 , , 591 , l147    kuijken , k. , & gilmore , g. 1989 , mnras , 239 , 571    , k. , wex , n. , jessner , a. , et  al .",
    "2009 , , 400 , 805    , p. , brazier , a. , hessels , j.  w.  t. , et  al .",
    "2015 , arxiv e - prints , arxiv:1504.02294    leys , c. , ley , c. , klein , o. , bernard , p. , & licata , l. 2013 , journal of experimental social psychology , 49 , 764    , o. , lewandowski , w. , wolszczan , a. , & wielebinski , r. 2005 , , 621 , 388    , a.  n. , kipphorn , r.  a. , nice , d.  j. , et  al .",
    "2006 , , 642 , 1012    , d.  r. 2013 , in iau symposium , vol . 291 , iau symposium , ed . j.  van leeuwen , 237242    , d.  r. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , champion , d.  j. , & stairs , i.  h. 2007 , , 379 , 282    , d.  r. , faulkner , a.  j. , lyne , a.  g. , et  al .",
    "2006 , , 372 , 777    , t.  e. , & kelker , d.  h. 1973 , , 85 , 573    , r.  s. , boyles , j. , ransom , s.  m. , et  al .",
    "2013 , , 763 , 81    , r.  n. , hobbs , g.  b. , teoh , a. , & hobbs , m. 2005 , , 129 , 1993    , c. , bailes , m. , bates , s.  d. , et  al .",
    "2014 , , 439 , 1865    , d.  j. , splaver , e.  m. , & stairs , i.  h. 2001 , , 549 , 516    , d.  j. , & taylor , j.  h. 1995 , , 441 , 429    , p. , langer , n. , poelarends , a.  j.  t. , et  al . 2004 , , 612 , 1044    press , w.  h. , teukolsky , s.  a. , vetterling , w.  t. , & flannery , b.  p. 2007",
    ", numerical recipes : the art of scientific computing , 3@xmath147 edition ( cambridge : cambridge university press )    , m.  j. , menten , k.  m. , brunthaler , a. , et  al .",
    "2014 , , 783 , 130    , d.  h.  f.  m. 2012 , , 427 , 664    , r. , binney , j. , & dehnen , w. 2010 , , 403 , 1829    , s. , bland - hawthorn , j. , binney , j. , et  al .",
    "2014 , , 793 , 51    shklovskii , i.  s. 1970 , sov .",
    "astron . , 13 , 562    , e.  m. 2004 , phd thesis , princeton university    , k. , lynch , r.  s. , ransom , s.  m. , et  al .",
    "2014 , , 791 , 67    , f.  k. , ray , a. , reisenegger , a. , et  al .",
    "2003 , , 406 , 245    , t.  m. , & bailes , m. 1996 , , 315 , 432    , t.  m. , langer , n. , & kramer , m. 2012 , , 425 , 1601    , t.  m. , sanyal , d. , yoon , s .- c . , & langer , n. 2013 , , 558 , a39    , m. , sandhu , j.  s. , bailes , m. , et  al . 1999 , , 307 , 925    , e.  p.  j. 2011 , bulletin of the astronomical society of india , 39 , 1    , m.  h. , breton , r.  p. , & kulkarni , s.  r. 2011 , , 728 , 95    , w. , demorest , p. , & oslowski , s. 2012 , astronomical research and technology , 9 , 237    , j.  p.  w. , lorimer , d.  r. , & mclaughlin , m.  a. 2010 , , 405 , 564    , j.  p.  w. , weisberg , j.  m. , chael , a.  a. , lee , k.  j. , & lorimer , d.  r. 2012 , , 755 , 39    , j.  p.  w. , bailes , m. , van straten , w. , et  al . 2008 , , 679 , 675    , j.  p.  w. , bailes , m. , coles , w.  a. , et  al . 2009 , , 400 , 951    ,",
    "a. , hoffman , i.  m. , konacki , m. , anderson , s.  b. , & xilouris , k.  m. 2000 , , 540 , l41    , x.  p. , hobbs , g. , coles , w.  a. , et  al .",
    "2007 , , 378 , 493    , v.  e. 2006 , , 638 , 951    , w.  w. , stairs , i.  h. , demorest , p.  b. , et  al .",
    "2015 , arxiv e - prints , arxiv:1504.00662",
    "as described in   [ sec : pdotdistances ] , we have derived two distance limits for psr  j1024@xmath00719 that contradict one other : an upper limit on distance from spin - down , @xmath95  kpc , and a lower limit on distance from parallax , @xmath96  kpc . to quantify this discrepancy , note that if the pulsar lies within the bound established by the spin - down distance , then the parallax measurement , @xmath148  mas is in error by at least @xmath149 .",
    "the resolution of this conflict is not clear . in this appendix",
    ", we summarize the reasons the spin - down distance measurement is robust , we describe tests of our parallax measurement , we summarize other observations of this pulsar , and we present an orbital model which is a candidate for resolving this discrepancy .",
    "psr  j1024@xmath00719 is isolated ( non - binary ) and has rotation properties typical of millisecond pulsars .",
    "it has the largest proper motion among the sources in this paper , and one of the smallest dispersion measures .      in  [ sec : pdotdistances ] , the spin - down distance was calculated from equation  [ eqn : pdot2 ] assuming the observed spin - down , @xmath150 , is entirely due to kinematic effects .",
    "similar spin - down distance upper limits have been previously calculated for this pulsar @xcite .    at the upper limit distance , 0.427  kpc ,",
    "the contributions to @xmath146 of the three terms of the right hand side of equation  [ eqn : pdot2 ] are @xmath151 for the @xmath59 term ; @xmath152 for the galactic rotation term ; and @xmath153 for the proper motion term , where we have used the pulsar period @xmath154  ms .",
    "the proper motion term dominates the calculation , so the calculation is robust against uncertainties in the galactic potential and rotation and we can write , with error of no more than 2% , @xmath155 . as shown in table",
    "[ tab:1024_previous ] , our measurements of @xmath146 and @xmath156 are in agreement with two previously published timing solutions for this pulsar . for these reasons ,",
    "this upper limit determination is robust , as long as the pulsar is spinning down .",
    "our parallax measurement for psr  j1024@xmath00719 is @xmath148  mas .",
    "there was one previously reported measurement , @xmath158  mas @xcite , which differs by @xmath40 from our value .",
    "while this previous value is compatible with the parallax implied by the @xmath146 measurement , it has a large uncertainty and is only marginally significant .    to test the validity of our parallax measurement",
    ", we performed a series of tests on the data set as detailed below and as summarized in table  [ tab:1024_px ] . for each test , the table shows the best - fit parallax ; the @xmath50 of the fit ; the number of degrees of freedom , @xmath159 ; and the reduced @xmath50 .",
    "each of our tests used the noise model values for this source as determined by @xcite , which consists only of white - noise terms . in all tests",
    ", we found the parallax to be consistent with our standard measured value and to be lower than that implied by the @xmath146  distance limit .    _ data subset tests .",
    "_ our data set consists of measurements taken with two instruments , gasp and guppi (  [ sec : obs ] ) .",
    "gasp data were collected at three epochs , in years 2009.8 through 2010.1 , and guppi data were collected at 49 epochs , 2010.2 through 2013.8 .",
    "( there are also a very small number of gasp toas within the guppi date range covering frequencies without good guppi toas . )",
    "we ran independent timing solutions on ( i ) the guppi data only ; ( ii ) the first half of the data set , 2009.8 through 2011.8 ; and ( iii ) the second half of the data set , 2011.8 through 2013.8 .    _ timing noise tests .",
    "_ @xcite found no evidence for red noise in this data set . nevertheless , as a test , we ran independent timing solutions with extra spin frequency derivatives as a proxy for timing noise .",
    "defining @xmath160 , we ran tests fitting for all the usual parameters and additionally ( i ) @xmath161 ; ( ii ) @xmath161 and @xmath162 ; ( iii ) @xmath161 through @xmath163 .",
    "_ dispersion measure tests .",
    "_ our standard solution fits for independent values of dispersion measure at every epoch .",
    "these dispersion measure values are dominated by a linear trend ( * ? ? ?",
    "we ran two tests in which we fit dispersion measure as a linear trend combined with a solar wind electron density with a @xmath164 falloff , with electron density at 1  au of @xmath165 of 0 and 10  @xmath166 in the two tests .",
    "in such models , the solar wind electron density is highly covariant with the best - fit parallax value , so in principle one can adjust @xmath165 to attain any derived parallax value ; however , we found that the quality of the fit diminished significantly if @xmath165 was increased beyond 10  @xmath166 .",
    "@xcite noted that the gamma - ray emission of this pulsar would be unusually high at this distance ( they used 0.410kpc ) , and that a closer distance ( 0.350  kpc ) would be needed for its gamma - ray luminosity to be similar to other millisecond pulsars .",
    "this pulsar has also been detected in x - rays @xcite .",
    "@xcite presented optical observations of the field of psr  j1024@xmath00719 .",
    "they detected two sources near the pulsar .",
    "one was bright ( @xmath167 , @xmath168 , @xmath169 , @xmath170 ) , with a spectrum similar to a k - type dwarf star .",
    "one was faint ( @xmath171 , @xmath172 , @xmath173 , @xmath174 ) .",
    "the bight star may have a proper motion in a direction similar to the pulsar , although uncertainties are large .",
    "since the pulsar is isolated , the bright source may be unassociated with the pulsar , but its presence is an interesting coincidence .",
    "here we speculate what circumstances could reconcile the measurements if the pulsar is at the parallax lower limit distance , @xmath176  kpc . at this distance , according to equation  [ eqn : pdot2 ] , the observed period derivative would be biased upward by @xmath177 , i.e. , this is a lower limit to the observed period derivative if equation  [ eqn : pbdot2 ] fully describes the biases to the observed period derivative .",
    "since the actual observed period derivative is @xmath178 , under this model , the terms of equation  [ eqn : pbdot2 ] are not sufficient to explain the observed value .",
    "an additional bias of @xmath179 is needed , which could arise from an additional acceleration of order @xmath180 .",
    "such an acceleration could be caused by the potential of a globular cluster  indeed , millisecond pulsars in globular cluster cores have a wide range of observed positive and negative @xmath146 values . however , there is no cluster in the direction of psr  j1024-@xmath181 .",
    "such an acceleration could also be caused by binary motion in a wide orbit .",
    "the acceleration would change over the course of the orbit , causing a change in the observed @xmath146 , i.e. , a nonzero @xmath182 .",
    "the difference in observed @xmath146 between @xcite and the nanograv nine - year value is @xmath183 over a time span of 9.6  yr ( using the centers of the observing data spans ) ; this corresponds to an approximate upper limit @xmath184 .",
    "an orbit would have to involve @xmath146 values that varied on the scale of @xmath179 , so the time scale of such variations would be @xmath185  yr , or an orbital period of @xmath186  yr . for acceleration @xmath187 , where @xmath188 , this gives pulsar orbital radius @xmath189 .",
    "for a 1.4  m@xmath190 pulsar , this would require a companion star of mass @xmath191 .",
    "much larger masses would also satisfy the constraints ; intriguingly , this includes the mass of a k - type star as observed by @xcite (  [ sec:1024_other ] ) .",
    "placing the pulsar at this large distance would present challenges , though .",
    "its two - dimensional space velocity derived from proper motion would be 260  km  s@xmath4 , higher than typical millisecond pulsars ; its dm would be much lower than that predicted by the ne2001 electron density model ; and its gamma - ray efficiency would be very high , much greater than the value calculated in  @xcite .",
    "lcccllc j@xmath192 & @xmath193 & @xmath194 & & 00:23:16.87910(3 ) & 09:23:23.871(1 ) & @xmath195 + j@xmath196 & @xmath197 & @xmath198 & & 00:30:27.42826(5 ) & 04:51:39.711(2 ) & @xmath199 + j@xmath200 & @xmath201 & @xmath202 & & 03:40:23.28818(2 ) & 41:30:45.2903(5 ) & @xmath203 + j@xmath204 & @xmath205 & @xmath206 & & 06:13:43.975631(3 ) & @xmath002:00:47.2223(1 ) & @xmath207 + j@xmath208 & @xmath209 & @xmath210 & & 06:45:59.081898(9 ) & 51:58:14.9208(1 ) & @xmath211 + j@xmath212 & @xmath213 & @xmath214 & & 09:31:19.1180(4 ) & @xmath019:02:55.015(6 ) & @xmath215 + j@xmath216 & @xmath217 & @xmath218 & & 10:12:33.43745(6 ) & 53:07:02.3071(7 ) & @xmath219 + j@xmath220 & @xmath221 & @xmath222 & & 10:24:38.670189(9 ) & @xmath007:19:19.5396(3 ) & @xmath223 + j@xmath224 & @xmath225 & @xmath226 & & 14:55:47.97069(2 ) & @xmath033:30:46.3833(6 ) & @xmath227 + j@xmath228 & @xmath229 & @xmath230 & & 16:00:51.903261(4 ) & @xmath030:53:49.3830(2 ) & @xmath231 + j@xmath232 & @xmath233 & @xmath234 & & 16:14:36.50708(2 ) & @xmath022:30:31.233(2 ) & @xmath235 + j@xmath236 & @xmath237 & @xmath238 & & 16:40:16.744825(3 ) & 22:24:08.84178(6 ) & @xmath239 + j@xmath240 & @xmath241 & @xmath242 & & 16:43:38.16140(2 ) & @xmath012:24:58.676(1 ) & @xmath219 + j@xmath243 & @xmath244 & @xmath245 & & 17:13:49.5331505(5 ) & 07:47:37.49284(2 ) & @xmath239 + j@xmath246 & @xmath247 & @xmath248 & & 17:38:53.96744(2 ) & 03:33:10.8824(5 ) & @xmath223 + j@xmath249 & @xmath250 & @xmath251 & & 17:41:31.144770(5 ) & 13:51:44.12241(15 ) & @xmath252 + j@xmath253 & @xmath254 & @xmath255 & & 17:44:29.407190(3 ) & @xmath011:34:54.6925(2 ) & @xmath256 + j@xmath257 & @xmath258 & @xmath259 & & 17:47:48.71665(1 ) & @xmath040:36:54.7795(7 ) & @xmath260 + j@xmath261 & @xmath262 & @xmath263 & & 18:32:27.5936(2 ) & @xmath008:36:54.98(4 ) & @xmath264 + j@xmath265 & @xmath266 & @xmath267 & & 18:53:57.318423(7 ) & 13:03:44.0596(3 ) & @xmath268 + b@xmath269 & @xmath270 & @xmath271 & & 18:57:36.390614(4 ) & 09:43:17.2075(1 ) & @xmath272 + j@xmath273 & @xmath274 & @xmath275 & & 19:03:05.79287(3 ) & 03:27:19.194(1 ) & @xmath276 + j@xmath277 & @xmath278 & @xmath279 & & 19:09:47.434674(1 ) & @xmath037:44:14.46667(7 ) & @xmath280 + j@xmath281 & @xmath282 & @xmath283 & & 19:10:09.70147(1 ) & 12:56:25.4727(2 ) & @xmath284 + j@xmath285 & @xmath286 & @xmath287 & & 19:18:48.033256(5 ) & @xmath006:42:34.8877(3 ) & @xmath288 + j@xmath289 & @xmath290 & @xmath291 & & 19:23:22.49331(2 ) & 25:15:40.6164(5 ) & @xmath292 + b@xmath293 & @xmath294 & @xmath295 & & 19:39:38.561227(2 ) & 21:34:59.12567(5 ) & @xmath296 + j@xmath297 & @xmath298 & @xmath299 & & 19:44:09.329903(7 ) & 09:07:23.0362(3 ) & @xmath252 + j@xmath300 & @xmath301 & @xmath302 & & 19:49:29.6379(4 ) & 31:06:03.795(5 ) & @xmath303 + b@xmath304 & @xmath305 & @xmath306 & & 19:55:27.87546(5 ) & 29:08:43.4464(5 ) & @xmath252 + j@xmath307 & @xmath308 & @xmath309 & & 20:10:45.920937(8 ) & @xmath013:23:56.0755(5 ) & @xmath310 + j@xmath311 & @xmath312 & @xmath313 & & 20:17:22.70503(1 ) & 06:03:05.5686(4 ) & @xmath314 + j@xmath315 & @xmath316 & @xmath317 & & 20:43:20.882230(3 ) & 17:11:28.92694(9 ) & @xmath318 + j@xmath319 & @xmath320 & @xmath321 & & 21:45:50.46089(3 ) & @xmath007:50:18.491(1 ) & @xmath322 + j@xmath323 & @xmath324 & @xmath325 & & 22:14:38.85097(2 ) & 30:00:38.1976(2 ) & @xmath326 + j@xmath327 & @xmath328 & @xmath329 & & 23:02:46.97878(3 ) & 44:42:22.0928(3 ) & @xmath203 + j@xmath330 & @xmath331 & @xmath332 & & 23:17:09.236644(9 ) & 14:39:31.2557(2 ) & @xmath333      j@xmath334 & 2.3 & @xmath335 & @xmath336 & @xmath337 & @xmath338 & @xmath339 & @xmath340 & & & + j@xmath341 & 8.8 & @xmath342 & @xmath343 & @xmath344 & @xmath345 & @xmath346 & @xmath347 & @xmath348 & @xmath349 & 1 + j@xmath350 & 1.7 & @xmath351 & @xmath352 & @xmath353 & @xmath354 & @xmath355 & @xmath356 & & & + j@xmath357 & 8.6 & @xmath358 & @xmath359 & @xmath360 & @xmath361 & @xmath362 & @xmath363 & @xmath364 & @xmath365 & 2 + j@xmath366 & 2.4 & @xmath367 & @xmath368 & @xmath369 & @xmath370 & @xmath371 & @xmath372 & @xmath373 & @xmath374 & 3 + j@xmath375 & 0.6 & & & & & & & & & + j@xmath376 & 9.2 & @xmath377 & @xmath378 & @xmath379 & @xmath380 & @xmath381 & @xmath382 & @xmath383 & @xmath384 & 4 + j@xmath385 & 4.0 & @xmath386 & @xmath387 & @xmath388 & @xmath389 & @xmath390 & @xmath391 & @xmath392 & @xmath393 & 2 + j@xmath394 & 9.2 & @xmath395 & @xmath396 & @xmath397 & @xmath398 & @xmath399 & @xmath400 & @xmath401 & @xmath402 & 5 + j@xmath403 & 6.0 & @xmath404 & @xmath405 & @xmath406 & @xmath407 & @xmath408 & @xmath409 & @xmath410 & @xmath411 & 2 + j@xmath412 & 5.1 & @xmath413 & @xmath414 & @xmath415 & @xmath416 & @xmath417 & @xmath418 & & & + j@xmath419 & 8.9 & @xmath420 & @xmath421 & @xmath422 & @xmath423 & @xmath424 & @xmath425 & @xmath426 & @xmath427 & 6 + j@xmath428 & 9.0 & @xmath429 & @xmath430 & @xmath431 & @xmath432 & @xmath433 & @xmath434 & @xmath435 & @xmath436 & 2 + j@xmath437 & 8.8 & @xmath438 & @xmath439 & @xmath440 & @xmath441 & @xmath442 & @xmath443 & @xmath444 & @xmath445 & 7@xmath446 + j@xmath447 & 4.0 & @xmath448 & @xmath449 & @xmath450 & @xmath451 & @xmath452 & @xmath453 & @xmath454 & @xmath455 & 8 + j@xmath456 & 2.3 & @xmath457 & @xmath458 & @xmath459 & @xmath460 & @xmath461 & @xmath462 & & & + j@xmath463 & 9.2 & @xmath464 & @xmath465 & @xmath466 & @xmath467 & @xmath468 & @xmath469 & @xmath470 & @xmath471 & 2 + j@xmath472 & 1.7 & @xmath473 & @xmath474 & @xmath475 & @xmath476 & @xmath477 & @xmath478 & & & + j@xmath479 & 0.6 & & & & & & & & & + j@xmath480 & 2.3 & @xmath481 & @xmath482 & @xmath483 & @xmath484 & @xmath485 & @xmath486 & @xmath487 & @xmath488 & 9@xmath446 + b@xmath489 & 8.9 & @xmath490 & @xmath491 & @xmath492 & @xmath493 & @xmath494 & @xmath495 & @xmath496 & @xmath497 & 2 + j@xmath498 & 4.0 & @xmath499 & @xmath500 & @xmath501 & @xmath502 & @xmath503 & @xmath504 & @xmath505 & @xmath506 & 10 + j@xmath507 & 9.1 & @xmath508 & @xmath509 & @xmath510 & @xmath511 & @xmath512 & @xmath513 & @xmath514 & @xmath515 & 2 + j@xmath516 & 4.7 & @xmath517 & @xmath518 & @xmath519 & @xmath460 & @xmath520 & @xmath521 & @xmath522 & @xmath523 & 9@xmath446 + j@xmath524 & 9.0 & @xmath525 & @xmath526 & @xmath527 & @xmath528 & @xmath529 & @xmath530 & @xmath531 & @xmath532 & 11 + j@xmath533 & 2.2 & @xmath534 & @xmath535 & @xmath536 & @xmath537 & @xmath538 & @xmath539 & @xmath540 & @xmath541 & 12 + b@xmath542 & 9.1 & @xmath543 & @xmath544 & @xmath545 & @xmath546 & @xmath547 & @xmath548 & @xmath549 & @xmath550 & 2 + j@xmath551 & 2.3 & @xmath552 & @xmath553 & @xmath554 & @xmath555 & @xmath556 & @xmath557 & @xmath558 & @xmath559 & 13 + j@xmath560 & 1.2 & @xmath561 & @xmath562 & @xmath563 & @xmath564 & @xmath565 & @xmath566 & @xmath488 & @xmath567 & 14 + b@xmath568 & 2.3 & @xmath569 & @xmath570 & @xmath571 & @xmath572 & @xmath573 & @xmath574 & @xmath575 & @xmath576 & 9@xmath446 + j@xmath577 & 4.1 & @xmath578 & @xmath579 & @xmath580 & @xmath581 & @xmath582 & @xmath583 & & & + j@xmath584 & 1.7 & @xmath585 & @xmath586 & @xmath587 & @xmath588 & @xmath589 & @xmath590 & & & + j@xmath591 & 2.3 & @xmath592 & @xmath593 & @xmath594 & @xmath595 & @xmath596 & @xmath597 & @xmath598 & @xmath599 & 15 + j@xmath600 & 9.1 & @xmath601 & @xmath602 & @xmath603 & @xmath604 & @xmath605 & @xmath606 & @xmath607 & @xmath608 & 2 + j@xmath609 & 2.1 & @xmath610 & @xmath611 & @xmath612 & @xmath613 & @xmath614 & @xmath615 & & & + j@xmath616 & 1.7 & @xmath617 & @xmath618 & @xmath619 & @xmath620 & @xmath621 & @xmath622 & & & + j@xmath623 & 8.9 & @xmath624 & @xmath625 & @xmath626 & @xmath627 & @xmath628 & @xmath629 & @xmath630 & @xmath631 & 16    lccc j@xmath334 & @xmath632 & & + j@xmath341 & @xmath633 & @xmath634 & 1 + j@xmath350 & @xmath635 & & + j@xmath357 & @xmath636 & @xmath637 & 2 + j@xmath366 & @xmath638 & @xmath639 & 3 + j@xmath375 & @xmath640 & & + j@xmath376 & @xmath641 & @xmath642 & 4 + j@xmath385 & @xmath643 & @xmath644 & 5 + j@xmath394 & @xmath645 & & + j@xmath403 & @xmath646 & @xmath647 & 2 + j@xmath412 & @xmath648 & @xmath649 & 6 + j@xmath419 & @xmath650 & @xmath651 & 7 + j@xmath428 & @xmath652 & @xmath653 & 2 + j@xmath437 & @xmath654 & @xmath655 & 2 + j@xmath447 & @xmath656 & @xmath657 & 8,9 + j@xmath456 & @xmath658 & & + j@xmath463 & @xmath659 & @xmath660 & 2 + j@xmath472 & @xmath661 & & + j@xmath479 & @xmath662 & & + j@xmath480 & @xmath663 & @xmath664 & 10 + b@xmath489 & @xmath665 & @xmath666 & 2 + j@xmath498 & @xmath667 & & + j@xmath507 & @xmath668 & @xmath669 & 2 + j@xmath516 & @xmath670 & @xmath671 & 10 + j@xmath524 & @xmath672 & & + j@xmath533 & @xmath673 & & + b@xmath542 & @xmath674 & & + j@xmath551 & @xmath675 & & + j@xmath560 & @xmath676 & & + b@xmath568 & @xmath677 & & + j@xmath577 & @xmath678 & & + j@xmath584 & @xmath632 & & + j@xmath591 & @xmath679 & & + j@xmath600 & @xmath680 & @xmath681 & 2 + j@xmath609 & @xmath682 & & + j@xmath616 & @xmath683 & & + j@xmath623 & @xmath684 & &        j@xmath196 & @xmath685 & @xmath686 & @xmath687 + j@xmath204 & @xmath688 & @xmath689 & @xmath690 + j@xmath208 & @xmath691 & @xmath692 & @xmath693 + j@xmath228 & @xmath694 & @xmath695 & @xmath696 + j@xmath232 & @xmath697 & @xmath698 & @xmath699 + j@xmath243 & @xmath700 & @xmath701 & @xmath702 + j@xmath253 & @xmath703 & @xmath704 & @xmath705 + j@xmath277 & @xmath706 & @xmath707 & @xmath708 + j@xmath285 & @xmath709 & @xmath710 & @xmath711 + j@xmath315 & @xmath712 & @xmath713 & @xmath714 + j@xmath319 & @xmath715 & @xmath716 & @xmath717 + j@xmath330 & @xmath718 & @xmath719 & @xmath720 + j@xmath192 & @xmath721 & @xmath722 & @xmath693 + j@xmath216 & @xmath723 & @xmath724 & @xmath725 + j@xmath220 & @xmath726 & @xmath727 & @xmath728 + j@xmath224 & @xmath729 & @xmath730 & @xmath731 + j@xmath236 & @xmath732 & @xmath733 & @xmath734 + j@xmath240 & @xmath735 & @xmath736 & @xmath737 + j@xmath246 & @xmath738 & @xmath739 & @xmath740 + j@xmath249 & @xmath741 & @xmath742 & @xmath743 + j@xmath265 & @xmath744 & @xmath745 & @xmath746 + b@xmath269 & @xmath747 & @xmath748 & @xmath749 + j@xmath273 & @xmath750 & @xmath751 & @xmath752 + j@xmath281 & @xmath726 & @xmath727 & @xmath753 + j@xmath289 & @xmath754 & @xmath755 & @xmath696 + b@xmath293 & @xmath756 & @xmath757 & @xmath758 + j@xmath297 & @xmath759 & @xmath760 & @xmath761 + b@xmath304 & @xmath762 & @xmath763 & @xmath764 + j@xmath307 & @xmath765 & @xmath766 & @xmath767 + j@xmath323 & @xmath768 & @xmath769 & @xmath770        j@xmath412 & 8.687 & @xmath771 & @xmath772 + j@xmath507 & 1.533 & @xmath773 & @xmath774 + j@xmath357 & 1.199 & @xmath775 & @xmath776 + j@xmath376 & 0.604 & @xmath777 & @xmath778 + j@xmath419 & 175.461 & @xmath779 & @xmath780 + j@xmath524 & 10.913 & @xmath781 & @xmath782 + j@xmath600 & 6.839 & @xmath783 & @xmath784    lccc j0023 + 0923 & 3.050 & 11.421 & @xmath785 + j0030 + 0451 & 4.865 & 10.174 & @xmath786 + j0613 - 0200 & 3.062 & 9.590 & @xmath787 + j0645 + 5158 & 8.853 & 4.920 & @xmath788 + j1012 + 5307 & 5.256 & 17.127 & @xmath789 + j1024 - 0719 & 5.162 & 18.552 & @xmath790 + j1614 - 2230 & 3.151 & 9.624 & @xmath791 + j1640 + 2224 & 3.163 & 2.818 & @xmath792 + j1744 - 1134 & 4.075 & 8.934 & @xmath793 + j1909 - 3744 & 2.947 & 14.025 & @xmath794 + j1923 + 2515 & 3.788 & 9.553 & @xmath795 + j1944 + 0907 & 5.185 & 17.339 & @xmath796 + j2010 - 1323 & 5.223 & 4.824 & @xmath797 + j2043 + 1711 & 2.380 & 5.243 & @xmath798 + j2145 - 0750 & 16.052 & 29.790 & @xmath799 + j2214 + 3000 & 3.119 & 14.701 & @xmath800 + j2317 + 1439 & 3.445 & 2.430 & @xmath801      j@xmath802 & @xmath803 & @xmath804 & @xmath805 & @xmath806 & @xmath807 + j@xmath808 & @xmath809 & @xmath810 & @xmath811 & @xmath812 & @xmath813 + j@xmath814 & @xmath815 & @xmath816 & @xmath817 & @xmath818 & @xmath819 + j@xmath820 & @xmath821 & @xmath822 & @xmath823 & @xmath824 & @xmath825 + j@xmath826 & @xmath827 & @xmath828 & @xmath829 & @xmath830 & @xmath831 + j@xmath832 & @xmath833 & @xmath834 & @xmath835 & @xmath836 & @xmath837 + j@xmath376 & @xmath838 & @xmath839 & @xmath840 & @xmath841 & @xmath842 + j@xmath843 & @xmath844 & @xmath845 & @xmath846 & @xmath847 & @xmath848 + j@xmath849 & @xmath850 & @xmath851 & @xmath852 & @xmath853 & @xmath854 + j@xmath855 & @xmath856 & @xmath857 & @xmath858 & @xmath859 & @xmath831 + j@xmath860 & @xmath861 & @xmath862 & @xmath863 & @xmath864 & @xmath848 + j@xmath865 & @xmath866 & @xmath867 & @xmath868 & @xmath869 & @xmath825 + b@xmath870 & @xmath871 & @xmath872 & @xmath873 & @xmath874 & @xmath875 + j@xmath876 & @xmath877 & @xmath878 & @xmath879 & @xmath880 & @xmath848 + j@xmath881 & @xmath882 & @xmath883 & @xmath884 & @xmath885 & @xmath831 + j@xmath447 & @xmath886 & @xmath887 & @xmath888 & @xmath889 & @xmath890 + j@xmath891 & @xmath892 & @xmath893 & @xmath894 & @xmath895 & @xmath896 + j@xmath897 & @xmath898 & @xmath899 & @xmath900 & @xmath901 & @xmath902 + j@xmath903 & @xmath904 & @xmath905 & @xmath906 & @xmath880 & @xmath837 + j@xmath560 & @xmath907 & @xmath908 & @xmath909 & @xmath910 & @xmath911 + b@xmath912 & @xmath913 & @xmath914 & @xmath915 & @xmath916 & @xmath917 + j@xmath918 & @xmath919 & @xmath920 & @xmath921 & @xmath922 & @xmath923 + j@xmath924 & @xmath925 & @xmath926 & @xmath927 & @xmath928 & @xmath929 + j@xmath930 & @xmath931 & @xmath932 & @xmath933 & @xmath934 & @xmath825 + j@xmath935 & @xmath936 & @xmath937 & @xmath938 & @xmath939 & @xmath831 + j@xmath940 & @xmath941 & @xmath942 & @xmath943 & @xmath944 & @xmath945    lcc j@xmath814 & @xmath946 & @xmath807 + j@xmath947 & @xmath948 & @xmath813 + j@xmath376 & @xmath949 & @xmath819 + j@xmath843 & @xmath950 & @xmath825 + j@xmath849 & @xmath951 & @xmath831 + b@xmath952 & @xmath953 & @xmath837 + j@xmath447 & @xmath954 & @xmath842 + j@xmath930 & @xmath955 & @xmath848          j@xmath334 & @xmath959 & & + j@xmath357 & & & @xmath960 + j@xmath366 & & @xmath961 & + j@xmath385 & @xmath962 & & + j@xmath403 & & & @xmath963 + j@xmath412 & & @xmath964 & + j@xmath428 & & @xmath965 & + j@xmath463 & & @xmath966 & @xmath967 + j@xmath480 & & & @xmath968 + b@xmath969 & & & @xmath970 + j@xmath498 & @xmath971 & @xmath972 & @xmath973 + j@xmath507 & & @xmath974 & @xmath975 + j@xmath524 & & & @xmath976 + j@xmath533 & & & @xmath977 + b@xmath978 & @xmath979 & & @xmath980 + j@xmath551 & & & @xmath981 + j@xmath591 & @xmath982 & & @xmath983 + j@xmath623 & @xmath984 & & + j@xmath802 & @xmath985 & & + j@xmath808 & & & @xmath986 + j@xmath814 & @xmath987 & & + j@xmath820 & & & @xmath988 + j@xmath826 & @xmath989 & & + j@xmath832 & & @xmath990 & + j@xmath376 & @xmath991 & @xmath992 & @xmath993 + j@xmath843 & @xmath994 & & @xmath995 + j@xmath855 & @xmath996 & & @xmath997 + j@xmath860 & @xmath998 & & @xmath999 + b@xmath870 & @xmath1000 & @xmath1001 & + j@xmath876 & & & @xmath1002 + j@xmath881 & & & @xmath1003 + j@xmath447 & & & @xmath1004 + j@xmath891 & & & @xmath1005 + j@xmath897 & & & @xmath1006 + j@xmath903 & & & @xmath1007 + j@xmath560 & & & @xmath1002 + b@xmath912 & @xmath1008 & @xmath1009 & @xmath1010 + j@xmath918 & @xmath1011 & & @xmath1012 + j@xmath924 & @xmath1013 & & @xmath1014 + j@xmath930 & & @xmath1015 & + j@xmath935 & & @xmath1016 & + j@xmath940 & @xmath1017 & &    lrrrrc @xcite & 1.853(6 ) & -34.9(4 ) & -47(1 ) & 2003.0 - 2005.3 + @xcite & 1.852(8 ) & -35.2(2 ) & -48.2(3 ) & 1996.1 - 2008.2 + nanograv nine - year release ( this work ) & 1.8551(1 ) & -34.2(1 ) & -48.0(3 ) & 2009.8 - 2013.8                                              ) .",
    "parallax distances are plotted as @xmath73 uncertainties ; ne2001 dispersion model distances are plotted with 25% uncertainties .",
    "two pulsars for which there is no distance that is both within @xmath73 of the parallax distance and within 25% of the ne2001 distance are indicated by name and by light blue uncertainty boxes .",
    "previous parallax measurements of psrs  j1713 + 0747 and j1744 - 1134 were used as input data to the ne2001 model ; our measurements of these pulsars are shown in blue .",
    "all of our other measurements are shown in green .",
    "[ fig : sigpxvsdm ] ]    ) .",
    "lower limit parallax distances are plotted as 95% confidence values ; ne2001 dispersion model distances are plotted with 25% uncertainties .",
    "previous parallax measurements or limits for psrs  b1855 + 09 and b1937 + 21 were used as input data to the ne2001 model ; our limits for these pulsars are shown in blue .",
    "all of our other limits are shown in green .",
    "[ fig : pxlimitvsdm ] ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using the nine - year radio - pulsar timing data set from the north american nanohertz observatory for gravitational waves ( nanograv ) , collected at arecibo observatory and the green bank telescope , we have measured the positions , proper motions , and parallaxes for 37 millisecond pulsars . </S>",
    "<S> we report twelve significant parallax measurements and distance measurements , and eighteen lower limits on distance . </S>",
    "<S> we compare these measurements to distances predicted by the ne2001 interstellar electron density model and find them to be in general agreement . </S>",
    "<S> we use measured orbital - decay rates and spin - down rates to confirm two of the parallax distances and to place distance upper limits on other sources ; these distance limits agree with the parallax distances with one exception , psr  j1024@xmath00719 , which we discuss at length . using the proper motions of the 37 nanograv pulsars in combination with other published measurements , we calculate the velocity dispersion of the millisecond pulsar population in galactocentric coordinates . </S>",
    "<S> we find the radial , azimuthal , and perpendicular dispersions to be @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3  km  s@xmath4 , respectively , in a model that allows for high - velocity outliers ; or @xmath5 , @xmath6 , and @xmath7  km  s@xmath4  for the full population . </S>",
    "<S> these velocity dispersions are far smaller than those of the canonical pulsar population , and are similar to older galactic disk populations . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that millisecond pulsar velocities are largely attributable to their being an old population rather than being artifacts of their birth and evolution as neutron star binary systems . </S>",
    "<S> the components of these velocity dispersions follow similar proportions to other galactic populations , suggesting that our results are not biased by selection effects . </S>"
  ]
}