{
  "article_text": [
    "various chromospheric jets are observed in the solar atmosphere . in quiet regions and coronal holes ,",
    "we observe classical ( type i ) spicules at the limb , which have maximum lengths of 410 mm , lifetimes of 17 min , and maximum upward velocities of 20100 km / s .",
    "recently , the existence of more violent `` type ii '' spicules is reported @xcite .",
    "the type i and ii spicules are considered to have their on - disk counterparts of mottles @xcite and the rapid blue - shifted events ( rbes ) @xcite , respectively .",
    "the dynamic fibrils observed on the disk in active regions have maximum lengths of several mm , lifetimes of 28 min , and maximum velocities of 1040 km / s @xcite . @xcite reported that the dynamic fibrils are considered to be the active region counterpart of the quiet - sun mottles .",
    "theoretical studies have suggested various models for these chromospheric jets ( see * ? ? ? * for a review ) . for the dynamic fibrils ,",
    "the periodic acoustic wave model is in agreement with observations @xcite , particularly in terms of the correlation between deceleration and maximum velocity .",
    "the origin of spicules ( types i and ii ) is still under debate .",
    "many candidates , such as acoustic waves ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , alfvn waves ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and magnetic reconnection ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have been suggested .",
    "most of these models include a process by which the transition region is lifted by the shock wave propagating upward into the corona .",
    "this process is called the shock - transition region interaction @xcite .",
    "several multi - dimensional simulations with the sophisticated modeling of convective motion have been reported @xcite . although some of these studies is intended to be the representative for quiet regions , the simulated chromospheric jets was significantly shorter than the observed spicules . using idealized one - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations",
    ", @xcite explained why the spicules are long in the coronal hole .",
    "the key process is the amplification of the strength of the shock wave in the solar chromosphere .",
    "based on their idea , we investigate the effect of the coronal temperature on the scale of the solar chromospheric jets using two - dimensional magnetohydrodynamic simulations with more realistic physical processes , to provide a unified perspective on the quiet region spicules , the coronal hole spicules , and the active region dynamic fibrils .",
    "we develop a new radiation magnetohydrodynamic code for the dynamical modeling of the solar atmosphere .",
    "the equations solved by this code include gravity , a lte equation of state , the radiative cooling , and thermal conduction along the magnetic field line .",
    "the solar atmosphere is filled with strong shock waves with a wide range of plasma beta .",
    "a robust numerical scheme is required for the simulation of these regions .",
    "we employ a higher - order magnetohydrodynamic scheme based on the constrained transport method @xcite with divergence - free magnetic field reconstruction @xcite .",
    "the equations are solved in the conservative form .",
    "we do not consider explicit viscosity or magnetic diffusivity .",
    "we assume the local thermodynamic equilibrium for the equation of state .",
    "the six most abundant elements are accounted with the metal mass fraction of @xcite .",
    "the formation of molecular hydrogen is not considered .",
    "the radiative cooling term is evaluated as a combination of the two different approximations . in the photosphere and lower chromosphere ,",
    "the radiative transfer equation is solved directly for the better modeling of the convective motion .",
    "the short characteristic method @xcite is employed with the a4 quadrature in @xcite .",
    "the gray approximation is assumed with the opal rosseland mean opacity @xcite in the high - temperature region and the opacity of @xcite in the low - temperature region . in the upper chromosphere and corona , the optically thin radiative loss function",
    "is employed to estimate the radiative cooling .",
    "the loss function is calculated from the chianti atomic database @xcite , with the extension by @xcite for the chromospheric temperature .",
    "these photospheric and chromospheric cooling terms are switched by the function of the column mass density .",
    "in addition to these terms , we include an artificial heating term which becomes active only when the temperature falls below 2,500 k. spitzer - type anisotropic thermal conduction is treated by second - order operator splitting and the second - order super - time - stepping method @xcite . the flux - limiting method @xcite is employed to maintain the monotonicity of the temperature .    the two - dimensional numerical domain in the @xmath0-plane extends from 2 mm below the surface to 14 mm above .",
    "the horizontal extent is 18 mm .",
    "the uniform grid size is 42 km in the horizontal direction and 32 km in the vertical direction .",
    "the bottom boundary condition is the `` open '' boundary . the total ( gas plus magnetic ) pressure equilibrium is assumed .",
    "the entropy of the upward plasma is fixed .",
    "the upward velocity field is slowly damped to the horizontally uniform upflow which complements the mass flux by the downward flow ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this weak damping is not important in the present results but able to suppress the unrealistic instability which appears after the long time integration .",
    "the downward plasma evolves adiabatically and freely .",
    "the top boundary has a free - slip condition and is open for vertical flow .",
    "the density is extrapolated exponentially by the scale height at the boundary .",
    "our two - dimensional simulation with a top boundary at the lower corona can not maintain the 1 mk coronal temperature . to prevent the corona from being cooled by radiation and thermal conduction , the conductive flux is introduced through the top boundary to heat the corona . in this study",
    ", the conductive flux is adjusted to preserve the different coronal temperature at the top boundary , @xmath1 .",
    "the magnetic field is assumed to be vertical at the top and bottom boundaries .",
    "the periodic boundary condition is employed horizontally .",
    "the initial condition is the plane - parallel atmosphere with a uniform vertical magnetic field of 3 g. the sufficiently relaxed convection is obtained after the integration of 5 solar hours with a temperature at the top boundary , @xmath1 , of 1 mk .",
    "we impose the uniform vertical magnetic field of 30 g on the relaxed atmosphere and integrate another 3 solar hours with the same @xmath1 .",
    "next , we change the temperature at the top boundary , @xmath1 , to 2 , 1 , and 0.4 mk to imitate the conditions of the active region , the quiet region , and the coronal hole , respectively .",
    "the simulations are integrated for another 1 solar hour after the change of @xmath1 .",
    "we find that the coronal density and temperature reach statistical equilibrium within 20 min .",
    "the data analyzed below is the last 30 min of each simulation .",
    "figure [ fig01 ] shows snapshots from three simulations with the temperature at the top boundary , @xmath1 , set to 2 , 1 , and 0.4 mk .",
    "we find the strong magnetic field concentration near @xmath2 mm .",
    "because the magnetic field structure is essentially the same among these three simulations , we can concentrate on the effect of the coronal temperature .",
    "the jet - like structures with various scales are formed in the chromosphere .",
    "these structures are basically driven by the shock waves , arising from convective motion , which pass through the transition region .",
    "this process is consistent with both the one - dimensional simulations @xcite and multi - dimensional simulations @xcite .",
    "we clearly find that the simulation with a lower coronal temperature produces higher chromospheric jets .",
    "the density near the top of each jet and over the entire corona is smaller when @xmath1 is lower .",
    "the widths of the produced jets in these simulations are approximately independent of @xmath1 if measured at a specific height like @xmath3 mm , but the jets become sharper near their tops in the lower @xmath1 simulations .",
    "we automatically detect the chromospheric jets in the simulations for the purpose of quantitative comparison .",
    "the procedure is basically same as that in @xcite .",
    "the vertical motion of the transition region along the magnetic field line is fitted by a parabola .",
    "the maximum length ( i.e. , the maximum height of transition region evaluated from the initial height ) , the lifetime , the maximum upward velocity , and the deceleration for each jet are calculated from the fitting . the result of the statistical analysis is shown in figure [ fig02 ] .",
    "we find a clear correlation between maximum length and maximum upward velocity for all three simulations ( panels ( a)(c ) ) .",
    "the lifetime roughly correlates with the maximum velocity for each simulation ( panels ( d)(f ) ) .",
    "the lifetime becomes longer and the correlation between lifetime and maximum velocity becomes stronger when the coronal temperature is lower .",
    "the correlation between deceleration and maximum velocity is relatively weak ( panels ( g)(i ) ) .",
    "the deceleration for @xmath4 mk ( panel ( g ) ) is distributed over a relatively broad range , exceeding the gravitational deceleration on the solar surface .",
    "the deceleration for @xmath5 mk ( panel ( i ) ) is concentrated below the gravitational deceleration .",
    "the abovementioned dependence on the temperature at the top boundary , @xmath1 , can be explained as follows .",
    "when @xmath1 is high ( i.e. , 2 mk ) and the chromospheric jets are small , as in panels ( a ) , ( d ) , and ( g ) in figure [ fig02 ] , the obtained correlations are consistent with the `` shock deceleration hypothesis '' suggested by @xcite . according to this hypothesis , the deceleration is determined by the periodicity of the slow - mode shock wave and can exceed the gravitational deceleration ( see eq .",
    "( 1 ) in * ? ? ?",
    ". the lifetime of the jet is determined by the period of the driving shock wave .",
    "the dotted lines in panels ( a ) , ( d ) , and ( g ) are the theoretical lines of parabolic motion with lifetimes of 2 , 3 , and 5 min . these lines are well - consistent with the results from the simulation with @xmath4 mk . because the lifetime of chromospheric jet is equal to the period of driving acoustic wave in the `` shock deceleration hypothesis '' , the long lifetime in @xmath5 mk case ( panels ( f ) ) requires long period of driving waves , which is not expected under the short acoustic cutoff period in the lower solar atmosphere ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the deceleration by the gravity becomes more important in this case .",
    "the resulting motion of taller chromospheric jets approaches free - fall .",
    "the dashed lines in panels ( c ) , ( f ) , and ( i ) indicate the theoretical lines of ballistic motion , which approximately explain the properties of simulated jets .",
    "since the simulated jets in the case of @xmath6 mk do not exactly follow ballistic paths , both of the gravitational and gas pressure gradient forces play a role in addition to the inclination of the magnetic field line .",
    "the case of @xmath7 mk , shown in panels ( b ) , ( e ) , and ( h ) , exhibits intermediate properties between these two extremes .    to consider the abovementioned view on the determination of deceleration",
    ", we investigate the vertical force near the top of the chromospheric jets .",
    "the vertical component of the equation of motion can be written as follows .",
    "@xmath8 here , @xmath9 is the gravitational acceleration at the solar surface , @xmath10 is the gas pressure , @xmath11 is the magnetic flux density , @xmath12 is the current density , @xmath13 is the lagrangian derivative , and @xmath14 is a unit vector parallel to the magnetic field . if we assume that the transition region at the top of the chromospheric jets is the contact discontinuity , the deceleration of the jets can be approximated by @xmath15 near the transition region .",
    "the result is shown in figure [ fig03 ] .",
    "panels ( a)(c ) show the deceleration produced by the total force parallel to the magnetic field @xmath16 versus the deceleration calculated by the motion of the chromospheric jets .",
    "although there is some level of dispersion , the motion of the transition region is roughly explained by the forces parallel to the magnetic field .",
    "the possible candidates of the discrepancy are the effect of the forces perpendicular to the magnetic field ( @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 ) , the deviation of the transition region from the contact discontinuity by the thermal conduction and waves , and the fitting and discretization errors .",
    "panels ( d)(f ) show the deceleration produced by the gravity parallel to the magnetic field @xmath20 .",
    "@xmath20 is more concentrated near the value of gravitational acceleration in the lower coronal temperature . because the structure of the magnetic field is nearly independent of the coronal temperature , the temperature dependence in these panels are caused by the difference of the height of produced jets . when the coronal temperature is higher , the maximum length of jets becomes small and the transition region moves near the root of the magnetic field where the magnetic field is more inclined .",
    "panels ( g)(i ) show the deceleration produced by the gas pressure gradient force parallel to the magnetic field @xmath21 . in @xmath6 mk case",
    ", the pressure gradient force always decreases the deceleration of the jets .",
    "however , in @xmath22 and @xmath23 mk cases , a part of the jets is decelerated by the pressure gradient force .",
    "this is consistent with the `` shock deceleration hypothesis '' where the deceleration is determined by the periodic shock wave .    to understand why the scale of the chromospheric jets depends on the coronal temperature",
    ", we investigate the relationship between the coronal gas pressure and the maximum velocity of the produced jets as shown in figure [ fig04 ] .",
    "the scale height of the gas pressure in the corona is sufficiently long and the gas pressure is almost constant across the transition region .",
    "thus , we can use the coronal gas pressure , @xmath24 , as the representative value of the gas pressure near the transition region .",
    "@xcite suggest that the density difference at the transition region causes the differences in the amplitude of the chromospheric shock wave and in the size of the chromospheric jets . for a linear wave ,",
    "the energy flux of the slow magneto - acoustic wave is conserved during the propagation as @xmath25 . here",
    "@xmath26 is the cross - section of the magnetic flux tube , @xmath27 is the speed of the slow magneto - acoustic wave , and @xmath28 is the velocity parallel to the magnetic field .",
    "this relation is reduced to @xmath29 .",
    "the dependence on @xmath26 does not appear in our current results because the magnetic field structure is almost the same in each of our three simulations .",
    "in fact , the shock wave is strong in the upper chromosphere , and the energy dissipation near the shock front violates the energy flux conservation .",
    "@xcite analytically derived the relation of @xmath30 for a strong shock wave with the constant chromospheric temperature and an adiabatic heat ratio of @xmath31 .",
    "@xcite reported the relation of @xmath32 in their one - dimensional adiabatic hydrodynamic simulation , which is very close to the analytic estimate for strong shock wave .",
    "we obtain the relation of @xmath33 from the three simulations with different coronal temperatures .",
    "this result indicates that another energy - loss process contributes to the formation of chromospheric jets in our simulations .",
    "the possible candidates are the radiative energy loss , the energy leakage by multidimensional effects , the thermal conduction , and the latent heat of ionization .",
    "the shock - transition region interaction @xcite and the dynamic variation of the chromospheric temperature will also affect the result .",
    "we note that the amplitude of the maximum upward velocity depends only on the nonlinear propagation of acoustic waves in the photosphere and chromosphere and does not depend on the deceleration models discussed in the preceding paragraphs .",
    "we can compare our three simulations with different temperatures at the top boundary ( @xmath34 and @xmath35 mk ) to the observations of the active region dynamic fibrils , the quiet region spicules , and the coronal hole spicules , respectively .",
    "panels ( a ) , ( d ) , and ( g ) in figure [ fig02 ] show behavior similar to the observation of the active region dynamic fibrils by @xcite .",
    "the properties of the spicules in quiet regions and coronal holes were investigated by @xcite and @xcite . both studies",
    "reported that the spicules became longer in the coronal hole and shorter in the quiet region , which was consistent with our results .",
    "we note that the parabolic trajectory of jets in our study are consistent with the type i spicules but inconsistent with the type ii spicules , which exhibit linear trajectory . because the top of the spicule was considerably affected by the observed wavelength @xcite , further studies are required for the more quantitative comparison .",
    "we also note that @xmath6 mk is too low for coronal holes and @xmath22 mk is also too low for active regions .",
    "the regional difference of density and the spatial inhomogeneity of temperature and density will explain at least a part of this discrepancy .",
    "the magnetic field strength is also not the typical value for these regions .",
    "however , if the chromospheric jets are driven by the acoustic waves from the lower atmosphere , we expect that the magnetic field does not affect the scale of the jets strongly .",
    "the numerical setting of the two - dimensional simulation by @xcite was very similar to that in our study .",
    "the simulation with @xmath7 mk is consistent with case b in their study .",
    "their simulation employed the bifrost code with more sophisticated treatment of radiation .",
    "this agreement supports the validity of our simulations .",
    "@xcite investigated the chromospheric jets in three - dimensional domain with the emerging magnetic flux .",
    "the typical length of their jets was approximately 1 mm .",
    "the high coronal temperature produced by the energy release of the flux emergence , in addition to the rapid expansion of the magnetic field lines in the corona , is a possible explanation for why these jets were small .    in this study",
    ", we neglect some physical processes which are important to the chromosphere , including non - equilibrium hydrogen ionization @xcite , more sophisticated treatments of radiation , and three - dimensionality .",
    "we believe that the qualitative picture is not affected .",
    "the dependence on the grid size is investigated and we find that the qualitative picture is not affected .",
    "this work was supported by jsps kakenhi grant number 15h03640 , `` joint usage / research center for interdisciplinary large - scale information infrastructures '' , `` high performance computing infrastructure '' , and the program for leading graduate schools , mext , in japan .",
    "numerical computations were carried out on the cray xc30 supercomputer at center for computational astrophysics , national astronomical observatory of japan .",
    "the page charge of this paper is supported by center for computational astrophysics , national astronomical observatory of japan ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the effect of coronal temperature on the formation process of solar chromospheric jets using two - dimensional magnetohydrodynamic simulations of the region from the upper convection zone to the lower corona . </S>",
    "<S> we develop a new radiative magnetohydrodynamic code for the dynamic modeling of the solar atmosphere , employing a lte equation of state , optically thick radiative loss in the photosphere , optically thin radiative loss in the chromosphere and the corona , and thermal conduction along the magnetic field lines . </S>",
    "<S> many chromospheric jets are produced in the simulations by shock waves passing through the transition region . </S>",
    "<S> we find that these jets are projected farther outward when the coronal temperature is lower ( similar to that in coronal holes ) and shorter when the coronal temperature is higher ( similar to that in active regions ) . </S>",
    "<S> when the coronal temperature is high , the deceleration of the chromospheric jets is consistent with the model in which deceleration is determined by the periodic chromospheric shock waves . however , when the coronal temperature is low , the gravitational deceleration becomes more important and the chromospheric jets approach ballistic motion . </S>"
  ]
}