{
  "article_text": [
    "the south galactic cap @xmath0-band sky survey ( scuss ; see x. zhou et al .",
    "2015 , in preparation for more detail ) is a deep imaging survey in the south galactic cap in @xmath0-band with an effective wavelength of 3538  .",
    "it is an international cooperative project between the national astronomical observatories of china and the steward observatory of the university of arizona .",
    "the survey utilizes the 2.3 m bok telescope at kitt peak .",
    "the camera , installed at the prime focus , provides a field of view ( fov ) of about 1 deg@xmath1 .",
    "the adopted filter is similar to the @xmath0 band of the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; * ? ? ?",
    "the scuss project started in the summer of 2009 and began its observations in fall 2010 .",
    "survey observations were completed in the fall of 2013 .",
    "the final survey area is about 5000 deg@xmath1 with uniform imaging depth , of which more than 75% is covered by the sdss footprint .",
    "the median imaging depth for point sources is about 23.2 mag at a signal - to - noise ratio ( s / n ) of 5 with a 5 minute exposure time . table [ tab1 ] gives the basic characteristics of scuss .    .survey",
    "summary[tab1 ] [ cols= \" < ,",
    "< \" , ]      the canada - france - hawaii telescope legacy survey ( cfhtls ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) used the wide - field optical imaging camera on cfht to obtain deep multicolor photometry over wide areas over 5 years.the photometric system is similar to that of the sdss , except the @xmath0 filter . as one component of the cfhtls , the wide synoptic survey covers 155 square degrees in four patches down to @xmath424.5 .",
    "the @xmath0-band magnitude limit in the wide survey reaches 25.2 mag , which is much deeper than the scuss @xmath0 band .",
    "thus , the catalogs of the wide survey can be regarded as a reference when comparing the scuss photometry with that of the sdss .",
    "there are two cfhtls wide regions , w1 and w4 , overlapping with the scuss footprints .",
    "the w4 field ( @xmath5 ) has an area of 25 deg@xmath1 fully covered by the scuss and it is located at a higher declination , where the scuss data quality is more typical than it is in the w1 field .",
    "we make some photometric comparisons by using the w4 catalogs .",
    "figure [ fig20 ] shows the photometric comparisons of point sources between the scuss and sdss with the cfhtls wide data as a reference .",
    "the left panels in this figure present the magnitude difference between the sdss ( in blue points ) or scuss @xmath0-band magnitude ( in red points ) and the cfhtls automatic magnitude as a function of the cfhtls @xmath0 magnitude .",
    "the sdss magnitude is the psf magnitude and the scuss magnitudes are automatic , co - added psf , and co - added aperture ( 2.27 ) magnitudes from top to bottom , respectively .",
    "these three types of scuss magnitudes are considered to be the best flux measurements for point sources .",
    "the number of objects for the automatic magnitude is less than those of the other two magnitude types ( mainly at the faint end ) due to different source detection by sextractor itself .",
    "both the scuss and sdss @xmath0-band magnitudes are converted to the cfhtls photometric system by the color term as indicated in the cfhtls webpage : @xmath6 .",
    "the sdss scatter for brighter sources is similar to the scuss scatter , while it is much larger than the scuss scatter at the faint magnitude ends .",
    "the histograms in the right panels of figure [ fig20 ] show the magnitude difference distributions with @xmath7 .",
    "the scatter for the scuss and sdss are also presented in these panels .",
    "the photometric accuracy of the scuss is much better than that of the sdss for fainter sources due to deeper imaging .",
    "extended sources are much more complicated , especially in ultraviolet bands , since their morphologies look much more fragmented than in redder bands . by comparing different magnitude measurements on stacked images with the sdss model magnitude",
    ", we calculate a scatter at @xmath8 of about 0.2 , 0.31 , 0.4 , 0.23 for automatic , aperture ( 2.27 ) , psf , and model magnitudes , respectively . the co - added photometric magnitudes give similar results .",
    "the automatic magnitudes seems to be the best for extended sources , but they only describe the brightnesses of scuss - detected objects .",
    "the model and aperture magnitudes are also adequate .",
    "the psf photometry fails to measure the magnitudes of galaxies .",
    "the choice of photometric technique is dependent on the science one wants to do .",
    "here we present some general guidelines .",
    "more than 90% of the stacked images are assembled from single - epoch images with consistent image quality .",
    "the photometry on these images is as good as the corresponding co - added photometry .",
    "however , as the background noise in single - epoch images is larger than that in stacked images , there are about 23% more objects with available magnitude measurements in stacked images than with available co - added magnitudes .",
    "the automatic magnitude performs as well as the psf and model magnitudes because it can adaptively fit elliptical apertures to both point and extended sources with similar flux loss .",
    "it can be regarded as a universal magnitude for both point - like and extended sources .",
    "but unlike other photometric methods , the automatic photometry is based on the objects detected on scuss images , which are about 35% of sdss objects with available scuss @xmath0-band fixed - parameter measurements . for point sources like quasars and stars ,",
    "the psf and aperture magnitudes with appropriate aperture sizes are recommended .",
    "the aperture size needs to be determined based on scientific objectives . for nearby galaxies with extended morphological structures ,",
    "the automatic magnitude and aperture magnitude are good choices .",
    "the scuss model magnitude is defined the same as the sdss `` modelmag '' . when combining magnitudes of other sdss bands to measure the colors of extended sources , it is better to use the model magnitude .",
    "the scuss survey is a wide - field @xmath0-band sky survey in the southern galactic cap .",
    "the survey used the bok telescope on kitt peak and the filter is close to the sdss @xmath0 band .",
    "the survey observations were completed by the end of 2013 and the total area is about 5000 deg@xmath1 .",
    "this paper describes the detailed data reduction dedicated to the survey , including basic image processing which has some special features related to the detectors , astrometric and photometric calibrations , and photometry .",
    "the general astrometric error is about 0.13 .",
    "the scuss photometric calibration is tied to the sdss catalogs and is performed for each amplifier of a ccd due to gain and weather variations .",
    "we apply different photometric techniques to the stacked images , including automatic photometry by sextractor , aperture photometry by daophot , psf photometry , and model photometry .",
    "our psf photometry with more controllable parameters is consistent with daophot .",
    "the model photometry is similar to the sdss `` modelmag '' , which uses the sdss @xmath9-band model - derived shape parameters and scuss psf profiles to make consistent and unbiased model magnitude measurements .",
    "we perform photometry on stacked images and also on single - epoch images , from which co - added photometry is derived .",
    "more than 90% of stacked images are assembled from single - epoch images with consistent quality .",
    "there are about 23% more objects with available magnitudes on stacked images than with available co - added magnitudes .",
    "the photometry on these stacked images is as good as the co - added photometry .",
    "however , for the rest of the stacked images , their photometry is worse than the co - added photometry due to uneven image quality .",
    "we thank the referee for his / her thoughtful comments and insightful suggestions that greatly improved our paper .",
    "this work is supported by the national natural science foundation of china ( nsfc , nos .",
    "11203031 , 11433005 , 11073032 , 11373035 , 11203034 , 11303038 , 11303043 ) and by the national basic research program of china ( 973 program , nos .",
    "2014cb845704 , 2013cb834902 , and 2014cb845702 ) .",
    "z.y.w . was supported by the chinese national natural science foundation grant no .",
    "this work was also supported by the joint fund of astronomy of the national nature science foundation of china and the chinese academy of science , under grant u1231113 .",
    "the scuss is funded by the main direction program of knowledge innovation of chinese academy of sciences ( no .",
    "kjcx2-ew - t06 ) .",
    "it is also an international cooperative project between national astronomical observatories , chinese academy of sciences , and steward observatory , university of arizona , usa .",
    "technical support and observational assistance from the bok telescope are provided by steward observatory .",
    "the project is managed by the national astronomical observatory of china and shanghai astronomical observatory .",
    "data resources are supported by chinese astronomical data center ( casdc ) .",
    "sdss - iii is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions of the sdss - iii collaboration including the university of arizona , the brazilian participation group , brookhaven national laboratory , carnegie mellon university , university of florida , the french participation group , the german participation group , harvard university , the instituto de astrofisica de canarias , the michigan state / notre dame / jina participation group , johns hopkins university , lawrence berkeley national laboratory , max planck institute for astrophysics , max planck institute for extraterrestrial physics , new mexico state university , new york university , ohio state university , pennsylvania state university , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the spanish participation group , university of tokyo , university of utah , vanderbilt university , university of virginia , university of washington , and yale university .    based on observations obtained with megaprime / megacam , a joint project of cfht and cea / irfu , at the canada - france - hawaii telescope ( cfht ) which is operated by the national research council ( nrc ) of canada , the institut national des science de lunivers of the centre national de la recherche scientifique ( cnrs ) of france , and the university of hawaii .",
    "this work is based in part on data products produced at terapix available at the canadian astronomy data centre as part of the canada - france - hawaii telescope legacy survey , a collaborative project of nrc and cnrs .",
    "ahn , c.  p. , alexandroff , r. , allende prieto , c. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 203 , 21 astier , p. , guy , j. , regnault , n. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 447 , 31 bertin , e.  2011 , astronomical bertin , e. , & arnouts , s.  1996 , , 117 , 393 data analysis software and systems xx , 442 , 435 betoule , m. , marriner , j. , regnault , n. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 552 , a124 cui , x .- q . , zhao , y .- h . , chu , y .- q . , et al .",
    "2012 , research in astronomy and astrophysics , 12 , 1197 doi , m. , tanaka , m. , fukugita , m. , et al .",
    "2010 , , 139 , 1628 freyhammer , l.  m. , andersen , m.  i. , arentoft , t. , sterken , c. , & nrregaard , p.  2001 , experimental astronomy , 12 , 147 kron , r.  g.  1980 , , 43 , 305 kaiser , n.  2004 , , 5489 , 11 regnault , n. , conley , a. , guy , j. , et al .",
    "2009 , , 506 , 999 stetson , p.  b.  1987 , , 99 , 191 york , d.  g. , adelman , j. , anderson , j.  e. , jr . , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579 zacharias , n. , finch , c.  t. , girard , t.  m. , et al .  2013 , , 145 , 44"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the south galactic cap @xmath0-band sky survey ( scuss ) is a deep @xmath0-band imaging survey in the southern galactic cap , using the 90prime wide - field imager on the 2.3 bok telescope at kitt peak . </S>",
    "<S> the survey observations started in 2010 and ended in 2013 . </S>",
    "<S> the final survey area is about 5000 deg@xmath1 with a median 5@xmath2 point source limiting magnitude of @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> this paper describes the survey data reduction process , which includes basic imaging processing , astrometric and photometric calibrations , image stacking , and photometric measurements . </S>",
    "<S> survey photometry is performed on objects detected both on scuss @xmath0-band images and in the sdss database . </S>",
    "<S> automatic , aperture , point - spread function ( psf ) , and model magnitudes are measured on stacked images . </S>",
    "<S> co - added aperture , psf , and model magnitudes are derived from measurements on single - epoch images . </S>",
    "<S> we also present comparisons of the scuss photometric catalog with those of the sdss and canada  france  </S>",
    "<S> hawaii telescope legacy surveys . </S>"
  ]
}