{
  "article_text": [
    "chemical reaction networks ( crns ) obeying the mass action law can be originated from the dynamical modelling of chemical and biochemical processes . however , these models are also capable of describing all important phenomena of nonlinear dynamical behaviour and have several applications in different fields of science and engineering @xcite .",
    "kinetic systems , which describe the dynamical behaviour of the crns have a simple algebraic characterization , which makes it possible to develop effective computational methods for dynamical analysis , and even control @xcite .    the graph representation of reaction networks , especially the exploration of the relation between the reaction graph structure and the dynamics of the network (",
    "preferably without the precise knowledge of the reaction rate coefficients ) has become an important research area in chemical reaction network theory since the 1970 s .",
    "there is a significant extension of dynamical equivalence called linear conjugacy , where the kinetic model is subject to a positive definite linear diagonal state transformation @xcite .",
    "obviously , linear conjugacy preserves the main qualitative dynamical properties of crns like stability and multiplicities or the boundedness of solutions .",
    "however , due to the larger degree of freedom introduced by the transformation parameters , it allows a wider variety of possible reaction graph structures than dynamical equivalence does .    after treating",
    "the above mentioned important special cases , a question arises naturally : is it possible to give a computationally efficient algorithm for determining all possible reaction graph structures corresponding to linearly conjugate crn realizations of a given kinetic system ?",
    "the aim of this paper is to give a solution to this problem . of course",
    ", we can not expect to find a polynomial - time algorithm for the overall problem , since exponentially many different realizing graph structures may exist for a kinetic model .",
    "however , as it will be shown , it is possible to achieve that each computation step ( i.e. finding and displaying the next realization after the previous one ) is performed in polynomial time .",
    "in this section , we summarize the basic notions and results for both algebraic and graph - based representations of crns",
    ". we will use the following notations :    [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]",
    "an algorithm was proposed in this paper for computing all linearly conjugate realizations of a given kinetic polynomial system . to the best of the authors knowledge",
    "this method is the first provably correct solution for the exhaustive search of crn structures realizing a given dynamics .",
    "the inputs of the algorithm are the complex composition matrix and the coefficient matrix of the studied polynomial system .",
    "the output is the set of all possible reaction graphs encoded by binary sequences .",
    "the correctness of the method is proved using a recent result saying that the linearly constrained dense realization determines a super - structure among all realizations fulfilling the same constraints @xcite .",
    "although exponentially many different reaction graphs may exist , it is shown that polynomial time is elapsed between displaying ( storing ) two consecutive reaction graphs .",
    "the computation starts with the determination of the dense realization and different stacks are maintained for storing realizations with the same number of reactions .",
    "the number of stacks depends linearly on the number of reactions in the dense realization , although the entire bookkeeping may require exponential storage space due to the possible large number of different structures .",
    "this organization allows that the optimization tasks for processing the actual realization ( i.e. computing its constrained immediate ` successors ' ) can be implemented parallely .",
    "the applicability of the algorithm is illustrated on two examples taken from the literature .",
    "this project was developed within the phd program of the roska tams doctoral school of sciences and technology , faculty of information technology and bionics , pzmny pter catholic university , budapest .",
    "the authors gratefully acknowledge the support of the hungarian national research , development and innovation office ",
    "nkfih through grants otka nf104706 and 115694 .",
    "the support of pzmny pter catholic university is also acknowledged through the project kap15 - 052 - 1.1-itk .",
    "the authors thank dr .",
    "istvn reguly for his help in evaluating the computation results of the parallel implementation of the algorithm .",
    "v.  hrs and j.  tth . on the inverse problem of reaction kinetics . in m.",
    "farkas and l.  hatvani , editors , _ qualitative theory of differential equations _ , volume  30 of _ coll .",
    "j. bolyai _ , pages 363379 .",
    "north - holland , amsterdam , 1981 .",
    "s.  schnell , m.  j. chappell , n.  d. evans , and m.  r. roussel .",
    "the mechanism distinguishability problem in biochemical kinetics : the single - enzyme , single - substrate reaction as a case study .",
    ", 329:5161 , 2006 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper an algorithm is given to determine all possible structurally different linearly conjugate realizations of a given kinetic polynomial system . </S>",
    "<S> the solution is based on the iterative search for constrained dense realizations using linear programming . since there </S>",
    "<S> might exist exponentially many different reaction graph structures , we can not expect to have a polynomial - time algorithm , but we can organize the computation in such a way that polynomial time is elapsed between displaying any two consecutive realizations </S>",
    "<S> . the correctness of the algorithm is proved , and are discussed . </S>",
    "<S> the operation of the method is shown on two illustrative examples .    * keywords * : reaction networks , reaction graphs , linear conjugacy , linear programming </S>"
  ]
}