{
  "article_text": [
    "we present initial results from our study of the outer halo of the milky way ( mw ) using a large sample of rr lyr(@xmath0 ) variables datamined for the archives of the palomar transient facility ( ptf ) ( law et al , 2009 , rau et al 2009 ) ( p.i .",
    "s.  r. kulkarni of caltech ) .",
    "rr lyr are old low - mass pulsating stars with distinctive light curves , amplitudes at @xmath4 of @xmath5  mag , and periods of @xmath60.5  days .",
    "these characteristics makes them fairly easy to distinguish in a wide field , multi - epoch optical imaging survey of moderate duration if the survey cadence is suitable .",
    "their most desirable characteristic is that they can be used as standard candles .",
    "accurate luminosities , which have only a small metallicity dependence , can be inferred directly from the light curves , and these stars , with @xmath7  mag , are fairly luminous and hence can be detected at large distances .",
    "using machine learning techniques we have isolated a sample of 464 rr lyr from the ptf .",
    "these were found by searching for ptf fields which had enough epochs of observation ( 25 minimum ) in the r filter .",
    "a total of roughly 10,000  deg@xmath8 on the sky met this requirement and was searched .",
    "the regions of known outer halo objects ( i.e. dwarf galaxies , globular clusters , and known halo streams ) were excluded .",
    "the search criterion was variability , and the sample was refined by requiring the derived period and amplitude to have values appropriate for rr lyr . since no observing time",
    "was assigned for this purpose , we are effectively datamining the ptf archive , and our sample lies in random pencil beams through the halo , each a ptf tile ( area on sky : 7.6  deg@xmath8 ) .",
    "our sample begins at a brightness corresponding to a distance of 50  kpc , and extends out to @xmath6110  kpc , after which rr lyr are too faint to pick out with ptf data .",
    "the selection procedure was carried out in 2012 ; at present the ptf+iptf variable star database contains photometry through dec 2014 , i.e. two more years of data , none of which was used to select the current sample .",
    "a more detailed description of the search method is given in sesar et al ( 2014 ) .",
    "given this is a variability search , the only contaminants with colors similar to those of rr lyr are quasars ( qsos ) .",
    "1 ( top ) shows the light curve of one of the brighter rr lyr in our sample ( @xmath9  kpc ) as well as that of one of the most distant rr lyr found to date ( @xmath10  kpc ) ( bottom ) .",
    "a spectroscopic campaign to obtain radial velocities for rr lyr candidates began at the keck observatory with the deimos spectrograph ( faber et al 2003 ) in the spring of 2014 .",
    "rr lyr are pulsating variable stars , hence their observed radial velocities need to be corrected for the motion of the atmosphere .",
    "to measure the center - of - mass velocity @xmath1 of rr lyr stars , we use the balmer h@xmath11 line and the method described by sesar ( 2012 ) .",
    "typical uncertainties in center - of - mass velocities , including both observational and phase correction , are 15 to 20  km / s for a single deimos spectrum .",
    "2 shows @xmath1 vs @xmath12 for the 62 rr lyr with keck / deimos spectra .",
    "we cut the sample at 85  kpc , and assume an uncertainty in each individual measurement of 20  km / s .",
    "we find a mean @xmath1 for the inner 41 rr lyr of @xmath13  km / s with @xmath14  km / s , while for the outer 21 stars , the mean is @xmath15  km / s with @xmath16  km / s .",
    "the mean of @xmath1 falls close to 0 , suggesting that our corrections to observed radial velocities are appropriate .",
    "when 4 major outliers ( 2 high and 2 low ) are deleted from the inner sample , @xmath17 falls to 90  km / s for the inner sample .",
    "deleting three high outliers from the outer sample leaves 18 r lyr beyond 85  kpc , and @xmath17 falls to 57  km / s , a remarkably low dispersion .",
    "we are not yet certain whether the outliers arise from substructures within the outer halo .    the velocity dispersion as a function of radius for the milky way halo is shown in fig .  3 , where we compare our work to selected values from the recent literature .",
    "the small stars denote our entire sample , cut at 85  kpc , and the larger stars show our sample of outer halo rr lyr cleaned of outliers ; recall that the outliers comprise only about 10% of our total sample .",
    "the star symbols are plotted at the median distance of the inner and of the outer sample .",
    "the velocity dispersions found for the inner halo from recent studies are also shown : from sdss blue horizontal branch ( bhb ) stars ( xue et al 2004 ) , from sdss k giants ( xue et al 2014 ) as well as a sample of halo high velocity stars from brown et al ( 2010 ) .",
    "most of these other samples are confined to distances less than 80 kpc .",
    "the only attempt to reach the distances probed by the outer part of our sample is that of deason et al ( 2012 ) .",
    "our results agree quite well with the value they published of @xmath2 of 50 to 60  km / s at distances of @xmath6110  kpc , rising to @xmath690  km / s at distances of 70  kpc .",
    "we agree reasonably well with the result of brown et al ( 2010 ) for @xmath2 as a function of @xmath12 from the mmt high velocity star survey , extending out to 75  kpc , when their non - parametric method to eliminate outliers is used ( see their fig .",
    "one of our goals is to determine the radial distribution of the outer halo of the milky way using rr lyrae as tracers of its stellar population , and to use this information to derive the total mass of the mw .",
    "we calculate distances assuming a fixed @xmath18 of + 0.6  mag as the flux - averaged mean over the period , then correct for interstellar reddening assuming that the variable is so distant that the full reddening from the maps of schlegel , finkbeiner & davis ( 1998 ) applies .",
    "4 shows a histogram of the full sample of 464 candidate rr lyr beyond 50  kpc as a function of log(@xmath12 ) , where @xmath12 is the heliocentric distance .",
    "both axes have logarithmic scales .",
    "the vertical axis is the number of variables in bins equally spaced in distance starting at 50  kpc , with 2.8  kpc / bin .",
    "these counts , accumulated over a solid angle on the sky of @xmath19  deg@xmath8 , represent @xmath20 .",
    "we fit a power law @xmath21 , over the range of @xmath12 we cover , i.e. out to just over 100 kpc . therefore a linear fit of the log(counts ) vs log(@xmath22 ) will yield a slope that is @xmath23 .",
    "our best fit slope is @xmath24 .",
    "the completeness corrections are very difficult to calculate because the number of epochs observed varies greatly among the ptf fields , depending on which ( other ) project requested observations of the field ; the galactic halo project has until recently been allocated no p48 imaging time at all ; we have simply used observations acquired for other ptf subprojects and thus have no control over the cadence of observing nor the fields observed .",
    "furthermore , ptf observations at the p48 are carried out as long as the dome can safely remain open irrespective of clouds .",
    "thus the limiting magnitude of each exposure of a given field has a very wide range , with clouds ( i.e. a bright limiting magnitude ) more common than exceptional nights which are perfectly clear and with good seeing , which have the faintest limiting magnitudes .",
    "an rr lyr at 100  kpc has a mean r of 20.6 , close to the limit of the ptf survey , so that in many ptf images it will not be detected . to aquire a specified minimum number @xmath25 of r detections , where @xmath25 is set by our search procedure to identify a candidate rr lyr ,",
    "will thus require many more epochs of observation with ptf of its field than would be the case for a rr lyr at 50  kpc in the same field .",
    "we indicate our best guess of a lower limit to the completeness correction arising from this issue at 100  kpc by the vertical arrow in fig .  4 .",
    "other such issues will further increase the completeness correction above 90  kpc .",
    "the only effort that reaches out to the radial range covered by our rr lyr sample is that of deason et al ( 2014 ) , who claim there is a very steep outer halo profile , with @xmath26 beyond @xmath27  kpc and even steeper slopes @xmath28 at larger radii .",
    "their sample of @xmath65200 stars is contaminated by qsos ; a photometric separation is not sufficient and cuts out many bhb stars .",
    "we can not reproduce the extremely steep decline in @xmath29 that they claim to observe .",
    "we believe that with our rr lyr sample selected through variability , the precise distances we obtain for our rr lyr stars , and our low qso contamination , that our result that @xmath30 for @xmath31  kpc is correct .",
    "most other recent analyses , i.e. xue et al ( 2015 ) , brown et al 2010 , find @xmath32 between 3.5 and 4.5 from @xmath33  kpc out to the limit of their data , between 60 and 80  kpc ; see e.g. fig .  1 of gnedin et al ( 2010 ) .",
    "as a rough indication of the total mass of the mw , we assume a spherical halo , ignoring the subtleties in the inner part of the mw of the thick and thin disk .",
    "we also ignore the difference between our heliocentric distances and galactocentric distances . the standard way to obtain the total enclosed mass given a set of tracers , be they globular clusters or rr lyr or any other low mass objects in the outer halo of a massive galaxy , is to solve the jeans equation .",
    "watkins , evan & an ( 2010 ) have solved the jeans equation for the case of set of mass tracers with both distances ( not projected distances ) and radial velocities located in the outer halo of a massive galaxy such as the milky way . to accomplish this",
    "they assume that the tracers follow a power - law density distribution @xmath21 .",
    "they further assume that a nfw halo ( navarro , frenk & white 1996 ) is an adequate representation of the outer part of the milky way halo .",
    "lacking proper motions , we can not evaluate the velocity anisotropy @xmath35 ; we assume isotropic orbits ( @xmath36 ) for the outer halo rr lyr .",
    "attempts to measure @xmath35 in the inner halo are more successful as much larger samples of tracers can be assembled , usually sdss bhb stars .",
    "kafle et al ( 2012 ) , among others , suggest @xmath37 from @xmath625  kpc out to the limit of their sample at @xmath660  kpc , a value similar to that deduced by williams & evans ( 2015 ) , who apply a new theoretical analysis to previously published data , while deason et al ( 2011 ) suggest from cdm simulations that @xmath36 .    using the above formula with @xmath38",
    "we find a total mass out to 110  kpc of @xmath3 , where the uncertainty corresponds to a range in @xmath35 from @xmath39 to + 0.5 .",
    "this suggests a rather low total mass for the mw , but is in reasonable agreement with several recent determinations based on studying halo stars at smaller radii ( see the compiled recent measurements in fig .  5 of williams & evans 2015 ) , although analyses including the outermost mw satellites and m31 timing arguements continue to suggest a higher total mass .",
    "future work should expand our sample of outer halo rr lyr significantly .",
    "another two years of ptf imaging ( 20122014 ) has recently been added to the ptf variable star database , suggesting it is time to conduct another search for candidate rr lyr in the ptf+iptf database , which is a rather daunting task given the limited available human resources .",
    "xue , x.  x. , rix , h .- w .",
    ", yanny , b. et al , 2011 , , 738 , a79 xue , x.  x. , ma , z. , rix , h .- w .",
    "et al , 2014 , , 784 , 170 xue , x.  x. , rix , h.  w. , ma , z. , morrison , h. , bovy , j. , sesar , b. & janesh , h. , 2015 , , in press ( see arxiv:1506.06144 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present initial results from our study of the outer halo of the milky way using a large sample of rr lyr(@xmath0 ) variables datamined from the archives of the palomar transient facility . of the 464 rr lyr in our sample with distances exceeding 50  kpc , 62 </S>",
    "<S> have been observed spectroscopically at the keck observatory . @xmath1 and @xmath2 </S>",
    "<S> are given as a function of distance between 50 and 110  kpc , and a very preliminary rather low total mass for the milky way out to 110  kpc of @xmath3 is derived from our data . </S>"
  ]
}