{
  "article_text": [
    "the ligo detection of gw150914 from the inspiral and merger of a pair of black holes has ignited a new era of astronomy @xcite . to fully exploit this new frontier",
    "it has been expected that triggered follow - ups by facilities operating outside the gw spectrum will become common place . during this new multi - messenger era , prompt electromagnetic follow - ups from low - latency gw",
    "triggers can provide a pan - spectral pathway of understanding into the inner engines and underlying mechanisms behind a multitude of gw sources .",
    "+ the advanced ligo ( aligo ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) detector launched its first science operations at sensitivities that would allow the detection of coalescing systems of binary neutron stars ( bnss ) in the range of 40 - 80mpc .",
    "it is approximately 1/2.26 of the horizon distance - the range for optimally oriented and located sources . ] ; aligo will be followed by advanced virgo ( adv ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) later this year ( 2016 ) . by 2019 aligo",
    "is expected to reach design sensitivity , with a bns detection range of 200mpc .",
    "adv is expected to reach this milestone by 2018 with bns observations out to a distance of 130mpc  @xcite .",
    "other second - generation detectors are also planned or undergoing construction .",
    "kagra , a japanese instrument , is envisioned to begin operation in 2017  @xcite and fulfill its baseline design around 2018 - 2019  @xcite .",
    "ligo - india  @xcite has obtained approval and is expected to be operational from 2020 , reaching a design sensitivity at the same level as aligo no earlier than 2022  @xcite .",
    "coalescing systems of bnss are promising sources of gws due to the fact that the inspiral phase is well modelled by the post - newtonian ( pn ) approximation .",
    "the relatively low masses of bns systems mean that these events will span most of the frequency band of aligo detectors . at design sensitivity , aligo is predicted to make 0.4 to 400 bns detections per year according to current rate predictions @xcite",
    ". the coalescence rate of of binary systems comprising of neutron stars and black holes ( ns / bh ) and binary black holes ( bbh ) are less confidently predicted due to a sparsity of observational data .",
    "studies have predicted yearly detection rates of order 0.2  300 detections for ns / bh events and 0.4  1000 for bbh events",
    "@xcite . for systems including at least one",
    "bh the detection of gw150914 is important as it proved that bh birth kicks do not always break up the evolutionary formation channels for these sources @xcite .",
    "multi - messenger astronomy is one of the highly prioritized research areas in the gw community @xcite .",
    "complementary observations from electromagnetic ( em ) , neutrino or high energy particle facilities would not only improve the confidence of a gw detection , but also maximise the science return by providing a wealth of additional astrophysical information .",
    "a number of plausible em emission mechanisms and end products that could be produced during the inspiral and merger phase of coalescing compact objects have been proposed .",
    "we summarise some of the popular scenarios in figure  [ fig_mm_scenarios ] ; predictions are highly uncertain as illustrated by the various pathways and end products and could involve combinations of bhs and/or magnetar formation or fast radio bursts ( frbs ) . the anticipated onset time , duration , and observable wavelengths shown suggest that transient em emission could possibly occur within a few seconds after the binary merger @xcite . to catch these events , generating gw event triggers without delay ( thus low - latency ) and obtaining prompt em follow - ups are crucial . achieving joint gw - em observations of these events could reveal the major processes and interactions at play during the binary merger process ( see detailed discussion in section  [ sec_astro ] ) .",
    "+    a significant effort from both gw and em astronomy community has been undertaken to achieve prompt gw - triggered em followup observations @xcite , though as yet , no joint gw - em detections have been made .",
    "recent developments in the areas of astronomical and computing technologies in the following three fronts will further improve the chance of catching em transients during the binary coalescence :    1 .",
    "advances in low - latency gw search pipelines that are capable of generating event triggers within minutes upon the arrival of a detectable signal .",
    "localisations are likely to improve as more gw detectors are constructed .",
    "3 .   development of wide - field em telescopes capable of rapid response within tens of seconds and with fields of view ( fov ) comparable to the error area of gw source sky direction ( typically tens of square degrees for the aligo / adv network ) .",
    "the first point has been studied since the initial ligo era and a number of low - latency gw trigger - generation pipelines have been proposed and tested  @xcite ; the prospects of rapid alerts from gw events are discussed in  @xcite .",
    "the benefits of a larger network given in the second point have prompted studies of source localization by advanced networks by a number of authors  ( see the studies of : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite have investigated key aspects of source localisation and estimation of localisation accuracy . for low - latency detections , studies of the early localization of bns sources",
    "when their gws are detected 10s of seconds before the merger can be found in @xcite .",
    "a recent study of the sky localization  @xcite for the early detector network expected in 2016 - 17 indicate that the error in gw localization will be of order 200 deg@xmath2 .",
    "methods of identifying gw sources from a large sky error regions will therefore have great importance and have been proposed by @xcite .    to combat the large error regions the range of wide - field em instruments that are in operation or",
    "are being developed across the entire range of the em spectrum will be important .",
    "additionally , the possibility of capturing the early em emissions can be provided through low - latency alerts ; this will require fast response em instruments",
    ". a range of such instruments from high to low energy will be fully discussed in section 4 .",
    "this paper will investigate the types of breakthrough science that will be possible through the low - latency detection and localisation of bns gw events , in particular , how these will enable prompt gw - em observations of bns coalescence in the era of advanced detectors . while the science of gw - em astronomy has been widely investigated previously for longer time scale em emissions ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* e.g. ) the feasibility to capture prompt and early em emissions from binary mergers has not been studied before . to examine the possible em responses , we use a comprehensive simulation that extends on previous investigations of the early detection and localization of compact binary coalescence ( cbc ) sources by extensively sampling a range of parameters of the ns waveform and sky localisation .",
    "we produce statistics showing the expected number of detections and their sky localisation error regions at different times before merger .",
    "based on these results , we for the first time extrapolate the temporally complete em data currently available for sgrbs to investigate the capacity of em instruments for short time scale em follow - up observations through the @xmath0-ray , x - ray , optical , and radio .",
    "we consider a range of possible emission mechanisms for bns mergers ; some of the possible pathways and end products are illustrated in figure  [ fig_mm_scenarios ] .",
    "furthermore , our investigation uses the full compliment of gw detector network configurations that will be available through the advanced detector era by including kagra , ligo - india and a proposed southern hemisphere detector aigo .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : in section  [ method ] we describe the framework we use to simulate the gw detection and localization and provide these results in section  [ result ] . in section  [ telescope ]",
    "we discuss the potential of em telescopes for rapid follow up observations and in section [ sec_astro ] provide a review of some of the possible em emissions that could be captured by prompt observations . then",
    "in section [ sec_astro_flux ] we use our simulated detection and localisation statistics with observational data to determine the astrophysical implications of low - latency gw detection and prompt em follow up .",
    "we then summarise our findings in section  [ concl ] .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ table_fluxes ]    the x - ray , @xmath0-ray and radio flux estimates are obtained by extrapolating to the required observation time from broken power law fits to the lightcurves of the grbs , which are converted into rest - frame luminosities using a k - correction and the observed spectral slope @xcite .",
    "the observed flux at a distance of 200 mpc is calculated by converting the rest - frame luminosities using an inverted k - correction for the new distance .",
    "the standard @xmath0-ray emission is extrapolated from grb 130603b @xcite , while the long lasting vhe @xmath0-ray emission is extrapolated from _ fermi _ lat observations of grb 090510 @xcite . in sections 5.2.2 and 5.4",
    ", we consider three different x - ray counterparts and use three sgrbs with reasonable redshift constraints to quantify the typical fluxes given in table [ table_fluxes ] , namely : grb 050509b for a sgrb without energy injection in the x - ray afterglow @xcite , grb 130603b for a long lived afterglow showing a clear signature of energy injection associated with a stable magnetar central engine @xcite and grb 080905a for an x - ray lightcurve with the signature of energy injection from a short - lived central engine , such as an unstable magnetar central engine @xcite .",
    "the radio fluxes given in table [ table_fluxes ] are extrapolated from grb 130603b @xcite .",
    "the optical magnitudes are determined at 200 mpc using the standard formalism , with @xmath3 the apparent magnitude , @xmath4 is the absolute magnitude and @xmath5 is the luminosity distance in parsecs ] .",
    "the optical afterglows are considered in section 5.2.2 ; we typically observe very faint and rapidly fading optical afterglows to sgrbs and we represent these counterparts in table [ table_fluxes ] by extrapolating the optical counterpart to grb 080905a @xcite .",
    "grb 130603b had an unusually bright optical counterpart and we use this grb to represent the bright optical afterglow in table [ table_fluxes ] .",
    "additionally , in section 5.3 , we consider the isotropic kilonova counterpart to grb 130603b which would have an observed magnitude of @xmath621 in the j band , but undetected in the r - band to @xmath723.7 , at a distance of 200 mpc .    in the following sections , by combining the results from tables [ table_high_energy]-[table_fluxes ] we discuss some possible observational opportunities and implications provided through a low - latency window .",
    "coincident em / gw observations of sgrbs can prove without doubt that bns mergers are the progenitors behind these bursts .",
    "it is quite possible that 1 - 2 coincident events a year may be accessible at full aligo / adv sensitivity using grb satellites @xcite .",
    "such a verification could be provided by a wide fov instrument such as _ fermi_. low - latency follow - ups could also enable _ multi - wavelength _ measurements of the prompt emission allowing the underlying central engine and emission mechanism to be probed .    a particular obstacle faced by _",
    "swift_-led observations of sgrbs is that the observed @xmath0-ray emissions typically have observed durations shorter than 2 seconds",
    ". therefore even a gw trigger with a latency as short as 10s wold not be sufficient to allow optical telescopes to recover emission during the prompt phase .",
    "however , a gw trigger sent out during the inspiral phase would allow multi - wavelength telescopes be on target before the sgrb .",
    "such a scenario could potentially provide a breakthrough in our understanding sgrb prompt emission physics .",
    "in fact a number of foreseeable opportunities to study sgrb physics exist that could be plundered through low - latency follow - ups . within the grb theoretical framework , panchromatic emission during the prompt phase and early afterglow phase",
    "is predicted , including the emission from the prompt emission site through internal shocks ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "indeed , for long duration grbs , panchromatic emission has been observed in a handful of _ swift _ grbs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) thanks to their long durations or the existence of a precursor that triggered the _ swift _ bat . in particular , prompt optical flashes have been observed in a handful of long grbs : e.g. the _ naked eye burst _",
    "grb 080319b @xcite , grb 990123 @xcite , grb 041219a @xcite , and grb 130427b @xcite .",
    "however , so far no emission outside the @xmath0-ray band has been detected during the prompt emission phase of sgrbs .",
    "low - latency gw triggers 10s of seconds before merger could make this possible for the first time . as noted in section 4.2",
    ", such observations will become more feasible once the error region is decreased through an expanded gw network in the latter part of the advanced gw detector era . for a particularly bright or close counterpart , the wide fov and fast response of an instrument such as gwac could prove to be highly valuable .",
    "the high energy reach of fermi has allowed access to photons with energies in access of 10 gev in both long and sgrbs .",
    "the fact that fermi lat discovered a photon of energy 31 gev during the prompt phase of sgrb 090510 @xcite is quite significant for low - latency follow - ups at vhe . in table",
    "[ table_fluxes ] , we provide the expected vhe ( @xmath8 gev ) @xmath0-ray flux and @xmath0-ray flux for a putative sgrb at 200 mpc coincident with a gw source .",
    "a low latency trigger gw trigger would alert vhe and @xmath0-ray detectors to search for prompt em counterparts . in the @xmath0-ray band",
    "the wide fov of an instrument such as fermi would be advantageous for such rapid follow - ups . at higher energies",
    ", instruments such as cta could provide follow - ups in wide - field mode @xcite ; such observations would be very rich in high energy photons and could provide valuable clues on the prompt emission mechanisms of sgrbs @xcite .",
    "additionally , we note that there are a small population of sgrbs that exhibit extended @xmath0-ray emission for hundreds of seconds following the initial short burst ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this sub - population of sgrbs are also believed to originate from compact binary mergers , and hence we might expect to observe this extended emission in some of the triggers even if the bright short - hard emission is missed by the @xmath0-ray detectors due to the inadequate time for slew from the gw trigger .",
    "the possible response times provided for cta in table 3 suggest that vhe follow ups of these emissions are quite possible .",
    "such observations could potentially unravel the exact nature of this extended activity @xcite .      by comparing the expected x - ray counterparts given in table [ table_fluxes ] to the instruments described in table [ table_high_energy ] , we show that existing x - ray instruments such as _ swift _ xrt or _",
    "mxt could detect the early x - ray afterglow for the sgrbs even without energy injection .",
    "unfortunately , if the x - ray observations start with a latency longer than @xmath610 minutes following the bns merger , or they require a long time to tile out regions of the sky due to having a small fov , we are likely to miss the x - ray counterparts for sgrbs without prolonged energy injection in their lightcurves ( such as those described in section 5.4 ) .",
    "we consider both bright and faint optical afterglows in table [ table_fluxes ] and note all of the optical instruments would be capable of observing the earliest onset ( or the rise ) of the optical afterglow assuming the 17th magnitude extrapolation based on a burst like grb 130603b .",
    "however , grb 130603b was unusually bright at early times , with a likely optical plateau phase , so the optical emission may have been contaminated with energy injection from the central engine @xcite . hence , these values are optimistic limits .",
    "most sgrbs typically have a fainter counterpart , such as grb 080905a , so will require deeper optical observations .",
    "the short optical reach and short exposure times of pan - starrs and ztf suggest these instruments could be valuable in such endeavors",
    ". the larger fov of ztf would be more suited to searching the error regions from earlier gw triggers and could facilitate a co - ordinated search strategy with an instrument such as pan - starrs capable of deeper searches but more limited by fov .    in the radio domain ,",
    "there have been 3 detections of radio emission associated with sgrbs ( grb 050724,grb 051221a and grb 130603b ) as well as a forth case , grb 120804a , due to host galaxy emission . in table [ table_fluxes ] , we provide fluxes based on the radio counterpart of grb 130603b .",
    "all of these detections have been at late times ( @xmath9 7 hours ) in the high frequency domain ( @xmath10 ghz ) with fluxes around the mjy level .",
    "these fluxes could be observed by instruments such as askap or apertif .",
    "the peak in the radio afterglow would be expected to occur on typical timescales of days - years . at low radio frequencies",
    ", we may also expect to observe the afterglow on months - years timescales using facilities such as mwa and lofar although this emission has not been observed to date for a sgrb .    during the early afterglow phase , a short - lived backward propagating _",
    "reverse shock _ component can occur once the shocked matter encounters the interstellar medium .",
    "this may dominate the optical and radio band under certain conditions , e.g. if the reverse shock region is more magnetized than the forward shock region @xcite .    on short timescales , an early radio flash ( @xmath1 1 day ) originating from a reverse shock",
    "may be expected .",
    "reverse shocks have been observed for a number of long grbs , peaking a few hours after the grb , ( e.g. grb 130427a * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and may already have been observed in some sgrb radio afterglows ( e.g. a radio excess was potentially observed at early times for grb 130603b ; * ? ? ?",
    "early radio observations , within the first hours of the bns merger , capturing the rise of the reverse shock at different radio frequencies would allow detailed modeling of this mechanism and would be a valuable probe of the jet models , macrophysics within the jet and the surrounding environment of the grb ( as conducted for the long grb 130427a by , e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) . with its expected rapid triggering capabilities , askap has the capability to detect an early reverse shock .",
    "the peak frequency and brightness of a kilonova critically depend on the amount of ejected materials , and more importantly , the opacity of the ejecta .",
    "early calculations adopted a relatively small opacity ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and predicted an optical transient with a peak flux about 1000 times of nova luminosity ( and hence , the term `` kilonova '' is coined ) @xcite .",
    "@xcite pointed out that the existence of heavy elements , especially lanthanides , greatly increase the opacity , so that the kilonova signature would peak at a later time and in a softer frequency , typically in ir ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "the properties of the kilonova depend on the properties of the post - merger compact object .",
    "the calculations of @xcite are relevant for the case of prompt formation of a black hole .",
    "if the merger product is a supra - massive neutron star ( sustained by rigid rotation for 100s of seconds or even longer , smns ) or even a hyper - massive neutron star ( sustained by differential rotation for 100s of milliseconds , hmns ) , neutrinos from the ns would raise the electron fraction and reduce the opacity , so that the kilonova signature is bluer and earlier @xcite .    as discussed earlier , an observational candidate for a kilonova",
    "was claimed for sgrb 130603b @xcite with one hst excess data point in the near ir band 9 days after the sgrb . as shown in section 5.1 , this kilonova is equivalent to a j band magnitude of 21 at 200 mpc and an r band magnitude of @xmath723.7 .",
    "none of the optical telescopes given in table 4 have near ir capabilities and are not expected to detect an r - band counterpart at this observation time .",
    "detailed modelling will be required to estimate the r band fluxes and peak timescales for these instruments ( see the work by * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "besides this one case , two other candidates have been reported .",
    "one is an excess around 13.6 days in the hst f814w - band following grb 060614 @xcite ; another is a significant optical rebrightening feature around 1 day following grb 080503 @xcite .",
    "more data are needed to reveal the diverse kilonova phenomenology .",
    "a low latency trigger would facilitate broad - band follow up observations to catch the kilonova signals , especially the early ones due to the small opacity in the ejecta .",
    "this will be a challenge due to the lack of sensitive instruments in the nir band with fovs large enough to survey the error regions @xcite .",
    "as discussed in the next section , an associated x - ray emission could be possible ; this would allow a wide field instrument such as iss - lobster to narrow down the search area .      the x - ray plateaus attributed to a millisecond magnetar central engine",
    "are observed up to 100 - 10000s after the bursts .",
    "the estimates in table [ table_fluxes ] show that if a stable magnetar is produced , gw triggers with a moderate latency could easily allow an x - ray instrument such as _ swift _ to detect the plateau emission .",
    "however , should an unstable magnetar be produced , a gw trigger with a 40s latency would be required enable an em follow up within a few 100s .",
    "such observations of the platau phase in combination with gw information could provide important clues of the ns equation of state @xcite .",
    "in addition to the x - ray plateaus , x - ray flares observed in the first few hundred seconds following short grbs have also been interpreted as resulting from magnetic activity in a post merger differentially rotating supramassive ns @xcite .",
    "prompt follow ups of the gw signals from ns mergers would provide significant evidence for this formation channel of magnetars .    in the massive proto - magnetar central engine model",
    ", the potentially wide - beamed magnetar wind is expected to produce a bright broadband afterglow @xcite .",
    "this could result in an early afterglow in the optical ( possibly as bright as 17th magnitude in r band ) and x - ray bands ( up to @xmath11 erg s@xmath12 @xmath13 ) for a source at @xmath14 mpc @xcite .",
    "the existence of a supra - massive ns can also supply continuous heating to the ejecta which can , depending on the spindown parameters of the neutron star , greatly enhance the kilonova signal @xcite .",
    "the detectability also depends on the observational geometry . for an on - axis binary merger",
    ", the signal may be fainter than the sgrb optical afterglow .",
    "however , for off - axis mergers , this would be the main uv / optical / ir signal from the event .",
    "the radio emission is also expected to peak earlier and brighter in this central engine model ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these predicted optical and radio counterparts are potentially within the sensitivity and field of view capabilities of many of the optical and radio telescopes described in tables 4 and 5 .",
    "additionally , recent suggestions that the observed prompt emission does not necessarily signal the start of the x - ray emission could have important consequences for low latency follow - ups .",
    "@xcite have postulated that the x - ray emission could start before the observed short hard spike emission of short grbs .",
    "these models predict that x - ray emission from a proto - magnetar could occur 100 - 1000s prior to the prompt grb .",
    "it is clear that low latency observations will play a major part in testing these models , but these will require more rapid triggering pipelines than those achievable by facilities such as _ swift _ and svom - mxt ( see table 3 ) .",
    "the employment of a wide fov x - ray instrument with rapid pointing capabilities such as iss - lobster @xcite would be very timely for the advanced gw detector era .",
    "the possibility of associations with frbs and sgrbs and/or bns mergers is still highly speculative .",
    "@xcite has suggested that the event rate of frbs ( @xmath15 gal@xmath12yr@xmath12 ) is inconsistent with grbs and compact star mergers , but could be in agreement with soft gamma - ray repeaters or core - collapse supernovae .",
    "@xcite argued that including the effects of cosmological time dilation and merger rate evolution would make the frb event rate in agreement with the optimistic double ns merger event rate @xcite .",
    "one caveat is that these models suggest an essentially isotropic emission of frbs .",
    "however , due to the existence of the r - process ejecta launched before the coalescence , the frb signal may not be able to escape the merger environment in most of the solid angles .",
    "@xcite acknowledged this and propose that the grb- or merger - associated frbs only account for a small fraction of the entire frb population , and only those mergers whose jet direction coincides the observer s viewing direction ( i.e. the short grb direction ) would be associated with frbs .",
    "the majority of frbs are attributed to those smnss whose delay time scale to collapse into a black hole is much longer , and therefore not associated with grbs or supernovae @xcite .",
    "this is certainly an area where investments in gw low - latency trigger and prompt radio follow - up observations could provide significant scientific insight .",
    "as discussed earlier , a particular obstacle for short duration events of order a few seconds , is that even a latency as short as 10s would not be sufficient to alert a @xmath0-ray instrument in time to recover the prompt emission .",
    "this however can be circumvented in the radio band , by electronically steered radio arrays such as lofar , mwa and , in the future , ska - low .",
    "an instrument such as mwa could cover the entire gw error region in less than a minute of receiving a trigger .",
    "although lofar typically has a smaller field of view than mwa ( this is dependent upon observing configuration and frequency ) , it is also capable of tiling out large regions of the gw error box using multiple simultaneous pointing directions and can conduct commensal beam - formed observations to probe higher time resolutions .",
    "in addition , as mwa and lofar operate at low frequencies the signal will be delayed by propagation through the ionised intergalactic / interstellar media . assuming a dispersion measure of 1000 pc@xmath16 ,",
    "the delay could be of order 3 minutes at 150 mhz - sufficient time to point the telescope at the error region . with the voltage capture system on mwa and the transient buffer boards on lofar , in combination with the low latency triggers and signal delay time",
    ", it will be possible for data to be obtained that can constrain emission from seconds to minutes prior to the merger .",
    "ska - low is expected to have many of the capabilities of lofar and mwa but with a much higher sensitivity , making it the ideal future instrument for these triggers . for higher frequency instruments such as askap and apertif",
    ", the delay would be significantly shorter - of order 8s at 700 mhz - requiring much more rapid response times .",
    "once on target , these radio telescopes would ideally continuously monitor the entire field for several hours as the different predicted frb mechanisms cover a range of timescales , both a few seconds prior to the merger and hours following it , and these observations would also be able to constrain the occurance of other types of coherent radio emission .",
    "+     +    the first gravitational wave observation has provided a pathway to the highest energy density events in the universe and transform our understanding of the behaviour of matter and space - time under the most extreme conditions .",
    "coalescing systems of nss are widely expected to be the progenitors of short grbs .",
    "early multiwavelength follow - up observations of these sources would allow one to probe and unravel the mechanisms behind these events beyond the gw regime ; the potential for breakthough science is without doubt .",
    "in this study we have simulated the expected localisation error regions corresponding to different times before the merger of a coalescing system of nss . to examine the most probable low - latency em observations we have considered the benefit provided by : a ) larger networks of gw detectors , corresponding with improved localisation ;",
    "b ) improved gw triggering latencies for sending out gw triggers .",
    "the tables shown in figures [ fig_mm_scenarios1 ] and [ fig_mm_scenarios2 ] illustrate some of the multi - messenger observations that could be achieved through low latency gw triggers assuming a detection 40s before merger .",
    "we note here that these tables may well be riddled with caveats due to the different operating scenarios and evolution of the different wavelength instruments .",
    "furthermore , it would require very detailed modelling to predict exact fluxes of the different em emission mechanisms ; well beyond the scope of this work .",
    "the goal of this study is to highlight the type of breakthrough science that could be realised through the low - latency domain and , using a wide selection of em instruments with agreements in place with aligo / adv for follow - up observations , determine the most likely avenues for success .",
    "figure [ fig_mm_scenarios1 ] presents a conservative scenario ; that of a lhv network corresponding with a 1000 deg@xmath17 error region ( assuming the 50% case provided in table [ early_loc ] ) and a 40s gw triggering latency to send out the alert . at low frequency radio and both high and low - energy @xmath0-ray ,",
    "the large fov and fast response potential show that post - prompt ( @xmath9 5s ) breakthrough observations could be realised .    in the optical , even for pan - starrs and ztf ,",
    "both large fov instrument with fast responses , to cover the 1000 deg@xmath17 error region with an exposure times of 30s would require @xmath9 ( 4000;600)s respectively .",
    "for longer latency follow - ups , optical instruments available in the latter stages of the aligo / adv era include blackgem which has a 40 deg@xmath17 fov and a depth of 22 mag and a possible future configuration of goto , which could employ a 40 - 50 deg@xmath17 instantaneous fov and sensitivity to 20 - 21.5 mag @xcite .",
    "to catch the early prompt stage , assuming a a 40s gw triggering latency , even instruments with a large fov will be challenged ; this scenario certainly provides motivation for speeding up the trigger pipelines of both the gw observatories as well as the high energy satellites .",
    "we note that for the low - frequency radio , one bonus in regards to em follow - ups is that the dispersion of coherent radio signals can introduce a significant delay of up to minutes ( as discussed in section [ section_frbs ] ) ; as the existence of early time counterparts to coalesing bnss in the radio band are still highly speculative , we have taken a conservative approach and neglected this effect , assuming only the physical time in our estimates .",
    "a more optimistic scenario is presented in figure [ fig_mm_scenarios2 ] which shows how breakthrough science can be achieved with an almost instantaneous 1s gw triggering latency and a fully expanded advanced detector network , lhvjia .",
    "for the 182 deg@xmath17 error region the post - prompt ( @xmath9 5s ) situation is much more optimistic in the optical and high - frequency radio bands due to the fovs of radio instruments with responses @xmath1mins and wide fov telescopes such as ztf that could survey this error region in around 2 mins . in the x - ray ,",
    "small fov instruments such as _ swift _ are hindered by the large gw error region .",
    "although considerable efforts have been undertaken to remedy this situation through the use a requirement for reconstructed sky locations to overlap with nearby galaxies @xcite , this coupled with the slow response of high - energy satellites presents a significant bottleneck in a band for which many of the post merger em emissions are known to exist .",
    "it emphasises the importance to have a wide fov x - ray instrument capable of rapid pointing ; one potential instrument that could remedy the situation is the nasa proposed 30 deg@xmath17 fov soft x - ray instrument iss - lobster @xcite .    for prompt",
    "( @xmath1 5s ) observations the wide fov of fermi means this instrument could provide a coincident observation with a gw trigger - this scenario is considered in the low gamma - ray ( @xmath1 10 mev ) region of figures [ fig_mm_scenarios1 ] and [ fig_mm_scenarios2 ] .",
    "however , we note the slow response of other satellites operating at the low-@xmath0 will hinder prompt follow - ups .",
    "if such a low gw triggering latency could be achieved and instruments such as _ swift_/fermi could employ fast triggering pipelines , and a wide fov x - ray instrument could be employed , low - latency em followups with a full gw global network would enjoy almost complete coverage for the models we have considered .",
    "we note that the scenarios we have outlined in figures [ fig_mm_scenarios1 ] and [ fig_mm_scenarios2 ] assume the gw error regions 40s before merger ; this choice was to provide the em facilities with the maximum time for response .",
    "however , as shown in table [ early_loc ] , closer to the merger both the error regions contract and the percentage of detections sources increases . for sources detected early in the inspiraling stage",
    ", subsequent alerts would most likely be sent out as the error box decreases in size ; this suggests that a co - ordinated observational and alerting strategy involving both the gw network and both wide and narrower fov instruments would be optimal procedure for maximising gw detections .",
    "our results support the argument that much breakthrough science can be achieved though a fast response .",
    "this has been evidenced in the post-_swift _ era with prompt follow - up of grb triggers producing such unexpected phenomena as flares , plateaus , optical flashes and reverse shocks .",
    "history therefore suggests that the lasting legacy from the era of prompt multi - wavelength gw follow - ups will undoubtedly be provided by the unexpected surprises we encounter .",
    "much of the analysis and discussion in this paper would not have been possible without the valuable input from members of the various em facilities . in",
    "particularly we would like to thank : david kaplan , shami chatterjee , lisa harvey - smith ( askap ) , dipankar bhattacharya ( astrosat / czti ) , imre bartos ( columbia u ) , paul obrien , jim hinton and gavin rowell ( cta ) , peter jonker ( lofar ) , julie mcenery and valerie connaughton ( fermi ) , weiming yuan , chao wu and jianyan wei ( naoc ) , fang yuan ( skymapper ) , duncan galloway and danny steeghs ( goto ) and david coward ( zadko ) .",
    "we are particularly grateful to julie mcenery ( nasa / gsfc ) who contributed some valuable suggestions for section 4.1 and to paul laskey ( monash university ) who provided some useful comments to improve the manuscript .",
    "we acknowledge support from wa s pawsey supercomputing center .",
    "ejh acknowledges support from a uwa research fellowship .",
    "lw is supported by the australian research council .",
    "bz acknowledges nasa nnx14af85 g and nnx15ak85 g for partial support .",
    "the authors gratefully thank leo singer , the assigned reviewer for the ligo scientific collaboration , for conducting a thorough review of the manuscript which included a number of insightful suggestions .",
    "finally , the authors thank the anonymous referee whose valued comments have vastly improved the structure of the manuscript .",
    "d.  m. , todd m. , vaalsta t.  p. , laas - bourez m. , klotz a. , imerito a. , yan l. , luckas p. , fletcher a.  b. , zadnik m.  g. , burman r.  r. , blair d.  g. , zadko j. , bor m. , thierry p. , howell e.  j. , gordon s. , ahmat a. , moore j.  a. , frost k. , 2010 , , 27 , 331                                                w. , berger e. , metzger b.  d. , margutti r. , chornock r. , migliori g. , foley r.  j. , zauderer b.  a. , lunnan r. , laskar t. , desch s.  j. , meech k.  j. , sonnett s. , dickey c. , hedlund a. , harding p. , 2014 ,",
    "apj , 780 , 118                        d. , et  al . , 2014 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series vol .",
    "9144 of society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , the microchannel x - ray telescope for the gamma - ray burst mission svom .",
    "k.  w. , siegmund w.  a. , kaiser n. , chambers k.  c. , laux u. , morgan j. , mannery e. , 2004 , in oschmann jr . j.  m. , ed . , ground - based telescopes vol .",
    "5489 of society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , optical design of the pan - starrs telescopes .",
    "pp 667678    hooper s. , chung s.  k. , luan j. , blair d. , chen y. , wen l. , , 2011 , summed parallel infinite impulse response ( spiir ) filters for low - latency gravitational wave detection , phys . rev .",
    "d 86 , 024012 ( 2012 )                                                                                                    d.  a. , cenko s.  b. , bloom j.  s. , chen h .- w . , butler n.  r. , kocevski d. , prochaska j.  x. , brodwin m. , glazebrook k. , kasliwal m.  m. , kulkarni s.  r. , lopez s. , ofek e.  o. , pettini m. , soderberg a.  m. , starr d. , 2009 , , 138 , 1690                                  p.  s. , 2012 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series vol .  8448 of society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , rapid alerts for following up gravitational wave event candidates . p.  0",
    "r.  m. , dekany r.  g. , bebek c. , bellm e. , bui k. , cromer j. , gardner p. , hoff m. , kaye s. , kulkarni s. , lambert a. , levi m. , reiley d. , 2014 , in society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series vol .",
    "9147 of society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series , the zwicky transient facility observing system .",
    "p.  79",
    "r.  l. , levan a.  j. , tanvir n.  r. , rowlinson a. , perley d.  a. , bloom j.  s. , cenko s.  b. , obrien p.  t. , cobb b.  e. , wiersema k. , malesani d. , de ugarte postigo a. , hjorth j. , fynbo j.  p.  u. , jakobsson p. , 2014 ,",
    "mnras , 437 , 1495            m.  a.  w. , oosterloo t.  a. , van cappellen w.  a. , bakker l. , ivashina m.  v. , van der hulst j.  m. , 2008 , in minchin r. , momjian e. , eds , the evolution of galaxies through the neutral hydrogen window vol .  1035 of american institute of physics conference series , apertif , a focal plane array for the wsrt ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the prospects for joint low - latency gravitational wave ( gw ) detection and prompt electromagnetic ( em ) follow - up observations of coalescing binary neutron stars ( bnss ) . for bns mergers associated with short duration gamma - ray bursts ( sgrbs ) </S>",
    "<S> , we for the first time evaluate the feasibility of rapid em follow - ups to capture the prompt emission , early engine activity or reveal any potential by - products such as magnetars or fast radio bursts . to achieve our goal , </S>",
    "<S> we first simulate a population of coalescing bnss using realistic distributions of source parameters and estimate the detectability and localisation efficiency at different times before merger . </S>",
    "<S> we then use a selection of facilities with gw follow - up agreements in place , from low - frequency radio to high energy @xmath0-ray to assess the prospects of prompt follow - up . </S>",
    "<S> we quantify our assessment using observational sgrb flux data extrapolated to be within the horizon distances of the advanced gw interferometric detectors ligo and virgo and to the prompt phase immediately following the binary merger . </S>",
    "<S> our results illustrate that while challenging , breakthrough multi - messenger science is possible with em follow - up facilities with fast responses and wide fields - of - view . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the opportunity to catch the prompt stage ( @xmath1 5s ) of sgrbs , can be enhanced by speeding up the detection pipelines of both gw observatories and em follow - up facilities . </S>",
    "<S> we further show that the addition of an australian instrument to the optimal detector network could possibly improve the angular resolution by a factor of two and thereby contribute significantly to gw - em multi - messenger astronomy .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    binaries : close  gravitational waves  </S>",
    "<S> gamma - ray burst : general  methods : observational  stars : neutron </S>"
  ]
}