{
  "article_text": [
    "verbs taking clausal and non - finite arguments add a further meaning component to their embedded argument .",
    "for example , the embedded argument is realized as _",
    "that_-clause in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , but _ understand _ in ( 1 ) marks it as factual and _ hope _ in ( 2 ) as uncertain .",
    "the verb _ pretend _ in ( 3 ) realizes its embedded argument as non - finite construction and marks it as non - factual .",
    "\\(1 ) _ he * that his computer has a hardware problem*. _    \\(2 ) _ she * that her experience will help others*. _",
    "\\(3 ) _ he * to take notes on his laptop * , but really is updating his facebook profile . _    the entities expressed by embedded clausal and non - finite arguments are also called `` abstract object '' ( ao ) in the rest of this paper ( following ) ; we will use the linguistic term `` modality '' @xcite to subsume the meanings ( such as factuality , non - factuality and uncertainty ) denoted by ao - selecting verbs .    as ao - selecting verbs can change the meaning of a text in important ways",
    ", text understanding systems should be sensitive to them .",
    "in particular , classifications of ao - selecting verbs according to semantic criteria are important knowledge sources for a wide range of nlp applications , such as event tagging @xcite , commited belief tagging @xcite , reported speech tagging @xcite , the detection of uncertainty @xcite and future - oriented content @xcite , textual entailment @xcite , or determining the degree of factuality of a given text @xcite .",
    "accordingly , various semantic classifications of ao - selecting verbs have been developed , e.g. , @xcite , some of them explicitly in the context of nlp @xcite .",
    "however , these classifications are constructed manually and often quite limited in coverage .",
    "consequently , extending or adapting them to specific domains or other languages is a major issue .",
    "we propose to address this issue by exploiting the relationship between the syntactic behavior of verbs and their meaning following levin s theory @xcite .",
    "this has not been done yet for verbs signaling modality , as far as we are aware . for the particular category of ao - selecting verbs ,",
    "levin s theory allows constructing verb classifications in a purely syntax - driven way , i.e. inducing semantic classes from syntactically defined classes , and thus possibly also extending given classes using large corpora .",
    "while the appeal of levin s hypotheses is clear , we are aware of a major difficulty , making our approach a challenging research problem : it is very hard to grasp the precise meaning components which are to be associated with a syntactic `` levin '' class . at the same time",
    ", it is vital to have a good semantic characterization of the meaning components in order to apply such classes to nlp tasks in an informed way .",
    "we address these issues and make the following contributions : ( i ) we consider a purely syntactic classification of more than 600 german ao - selecting verbs and induce semantic classes based on findings from formal semantics about correspondences between verb syntax and meaning .",
    "this yields an initial description of the meaning components associated with the classes , along with a tentative class name .",
    "( ii ) in a second step , we refine and extend the semantic characterization of the verb classes by translating it to english and linking it to existing semantic classes in lexical resources at the word sense level : we consider the coarse semantic fields in the german wordnet germanet @xcite , the verb classes in the english lexicon verbnet @xcite , and the semantic frames in the english lexicon framenet @xcite . as a result",
    ", we obtain a detailed semantic characterization of the verb classes , as well as insights into the validity of levin s theory across the related languages german and english .",
    "( iii ) we also perform a task - oriented evaluation of the verb classes in textual entailment recognition , making use of insights from the previous two steps .",
    "the results suggest that the verb classes might be a promising resource for this task , for german and for english .",
    "this section summarizes related work about the correspondence between verb meaning and syntax and discusses related work on modality in nlp .    * syntactic reflections of verb meaning * semantic verb classifications that are grounded in lexical - syntactic properties of verbs are particularly appealing , because they can automatically be recovered in corpora based on syntactic features .",
    "the most well known verb classification based on correspondences between verb syntax and verb meaning is levin s classification @xcite . according to , verbs that share common syntactic argument alternation patterns also have particular meaning components in common ,",
    "thus they can be grouped into a semantic verb class .",
    "for example , verbs participating in the dative alternation can be grouped into a semantic class of verbs sharing the particular meaning component `` change of possession '' , thus this shared meaning component characterizes the semantic class .",
    "recent work on verb semantics provides additional evidence for this correspondence of verb syntax and meaning : report that the syntactic behavior of some verbs can be predicted based on their meaning .",
    "verbnet is a broad - coverage verb lexicon organized in verb classes based on levin - style syntactic alternations : verbs with common subcategorization frames and syntactic alternation behavior that also share common semantic roles are grouped into verbnet classes .",
    "verbnet not only includes the verbs from the original verb classification by levin , but also more than 50 additional verb classes @xcite automatically acquired from corpora @xcite .",
    "these classes contain many ao - selecting verbs that were not covered by levin s classification .",
    "however , verbnet does not provide information about the modal meaning of ao - selecting verbs and does not reflect fine - grained distinctions between various kinds of modality .",
    "there is also some criticism in previous work regarding the validity of levin s approach . and both discuss various issues with levin s original classification , in particular the difficulty to grasp the meaning components , which are to be associated with a levin class .",
    "while approaches to exploit the syntactic behavior of verbs for the automatic acquisition of semantic verb classes from corpora have been developed in the past , they were used to recover only small verb classifications : s work considered a semantically balanced set of 168 german verbs , used 60 english verbs from three particular semantic classes .",
    "in contrast to previous work , we consider a large set of more than 600 german ao - selecting verbs and focus on their modal meaning ( i.e. , expressing factuality or uncertainty ) .",
    "* related work on modality in nlp * previous work in nlp on the automatic ( and manual ) annotation of modality has often tailored the concept of modality to particular applications .",
    "introduce a taxonomy of different kinds of modality expressing uncertainty , such as deontic , bouletic , abilitative modality , and use it for detecting uncertainty in an information extraction setting .",
    "their uncertainty cues also include verbs .",
    "use discrete values in a modality continuum ranging from uncertain to absolutely certain in order to automatically determine the factuality of events mentioned in text .",
    "their automatic approach is based on the factbank corpus @xcite , a corpus of newswire data with manually annotated event mentions . for the factuality annotation of",
    "the event mentions , the human annotators were instructed to primarily base their decision on lexical cues . for example , they used verbs of belief and opinion , perception verbs , or verbs expressing proof .    introduce an annotation scheme for the cross - linguistic annotation of modality in corpora .",
    "their annotation scheme defines two dimensions which are to be annotated ( called layers ) : factuality ( characterizing the embedded proposition or concept ) and speaker s attitude ( characterizing the embedding predicate ) .",
    "their annotation scheme starts from a fixed set of modal meanings and aims at finding previously unknown triggers of modality .",
    "however , some modal meanings are not distinguished , in particular those involving future - orientation . a classification approach grounded in syntax  as in our work  can be considered as complementary : it starts from the syntactic analysis of a large set of trigger words , and induces a broad range of modal meanings based on correspondences between verbs syntax and meaning .",
    "our semantic classification for ao - selecting verbs covers a _ wide range _ of different kinds of modality in text , thus considerably extending previous work .",
    "in this section , we infer semantic verb classes from the syntactic alternation behavior of a large dataset of german ao - selecting verbs .",
    "the research hypotheses underlying our method can be summarized as follows : there are correspondences between verb syntax and meaning : certain syntactic alternations correspond to particular meaning components @xcite .",
    "we consider a set of 637 ao - selecting verbs given in @xcite .",
    "these verbs are a subset of a subcategorization lexicon ( i.e. , pairs of lemma and subcategorization frame ) that has automatically been extracted from large newspaper corpora using a shallow regular expression grammar covering more than 240 subcategorization frames ( short : subcat frames ) .",
    "all the subcat frames extracted for a given verb were manually checked and only the correct ones were included in the final lexicon , because high quality lexical information was crucial in the target application lexical functional grammar parsing .    specified the alternation behavior of each ao - selecting verb regarding different types of clausal and non - finite arguments , yielding a _",
    "syntactic signature _ for each verb ( e.g. , 111101 for the verb _ einsehen ( realize ) _ using the encoding in table [ synprimitives ] , top to bottom corresponding to left to right ) . for this",
    ", each verb was inspected regarding its ability to take any of the considered clausal and non - finite constructions as argument  either on the basis of the automatically acquired subcat frames or by making use of linguistic introspection .",
    "linguistic introspection is necessary to reliably identify non - possible argument types , since missing subcat frames that were not extracted automatically are not sufficient as evidence .",
    ".clausal and infinitival arguments distinguished in the syntactic classification ; possibility of each type is encoded as 1 ( possible ) or 0 ( not possible ) .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < \" , ]",
    "our construction of semantic classes from the syntactic behavior of ao - selecting verbs results in an inventory of modal meanings that emerged from a large lexical resource .",
    "the main result of the linking based evaluation is a detailed semantic characterization of the inferred classes  a prerequisite for using them in nlp tasks in an informed way .",
    "the semantic classes seem to be particular suited for tasks related to opinion analysis , textual inference , or argumentation mining . in this context",
    ", the relationship between our large resource of lexical verbs and the closed class of modal verbs might be an interesting question for future research .",
    "most of all , the linking to germanet and framenet shows that it is indeed possible to narrow down meaning components for levin classes .",
    "moreover , the results of the linking to verbnet also provide support for levin s hypothesis that the correspondences between verb syntax and meaning described for english largely apply to the related language german as well @xcite .",
    "the english version of the semantic classes which we created by means of translation has the same semantic properties as the german classes .",
    "however , the syntactic properties of the english classes are not fully specified , because english has additional kinds of non - finite arguments , such as ing - forms or bare infinitives . therefore , it might be interesting to address this question in the future and to build a similar semantic classification for english from scratch , in particular in the context of extracting modality classes from corpora .",
    "this would require an adaptation of the syntactic signatures , considering the various kinds of non - finite arguments particular to english .",
    "based on large subcategorization lexicons available for english ( e.g. comlex @xcite or verbnet ) , it should be feasible to derive such signatures and to construct a mapping of signatures to modality aspects in a similar way as for german .",
    "the question whether the syntactic signatures can be recovered in large corpora is particularly interesting , because this would allow extending the existing classes and to also acquire ao - selecting adjectives and nouns .",
    "we plan to investigate this question as part of future work .",
    "we inferred semantic classes from a large syntactic classification of german ao - selecting verbs based on findings from formal semantics about correspondences between verb syntax and meaning .",
    "our thorough evaluation and analysis yields detailed insights into the semantic characteristics of the inferred classes , and we hope that this allows an informed use of the resulting resource in various semantic nlp tasks .",
    "this work has been supported by the volkswagen foundation as part of the lichtenberg - professorship program under grant no .",
    "i/82806 and by the german research foundation under grant no .",
    "gu 798/17 - 1 and no .",
    "grk 1994/1 .",
    "we thank the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments .",
    "additional thanks go to anette frank , iryna gurevych and ani nenkova for their helpful feedback on earlier versions of this work .",
    "nicholas asher . 1993 . .",
    "studies in linguistics and philosophy ( book 50 ) .",
    "springer .",
    "collin  f. baker and josef ruppenhofer .",
    "2002 . . in _ proceedings of 28th annual meeting of the berkeley linguistics society",
    ", pages 2738 , berkeley , ca , usa .    collin  f. baker , charles  j. fillmore , and john  b. lowe",
    "in _ proceedings of the 36th annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics and 17th international conference on computational linguistics ( coling - acl ) _ , pages 8690 , montreal , canada .",
    "marco baroni and adam kilgarriff . 2006 . . in _ proceedings of the eleventh conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics ( eacl )",
    "_ , pages 8790 , trento , italy .",
    "luisa bentivogli , bernardo magnini , ido dagan , hoa  trang dang , and danilo giampiccolo .",
    "2009 . . in _ proceedings of the text analysis conference ( tac )",
    "pages 1424 , gaithersburg , maryland , usa .",
    "sabine brants , stefanie dipper , peter eisenberg , silvia hansen , esther knig , wolfgang lezius , christian rohrer , george smith , and hans uszkoreit .",
    ", 2(4):597620 .",
    "julio  j. castillo .",
    "in hrafn loftsson , eirkur rgnvaldsson , and sigrn helgadttir , editors , _ advances in natural language processing _ , volume 6233 of _ lecture notes in computer science _ , pages 97102 .",
    "springer , berlin heidelberg .",
    "ido dagan , oren glickman , and bernardo magnini .",
    "2006 . . in joaquin quionero - candela , ido dagan , bernardo magnini , and florence dalch buc , editors , _ machine learning challenges",
    "evaluating predictive uncertainty , visual object classification , and recognising tectual entailment _ ,",
    "volume 3944 of _ lecture notes in computer science _ , pages 177190 .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg .",
    "johannes daxenberger , oliver ferschke , iryna gurevych , and torsten zesch . 2014 .",
    "dkpro tc : a java - based framework for supervised learning experiments on textual data . in _ proceedings of 52nd annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics : system demonstrations _ ,",
    "pages 6166 , baltimore , md , usa .    marie - catherine de  marneffe , christopher  d. manning , and christopher potts .",
    "38(2):301333 , june .",
    "richard eckart  de castilho and iryna gurevych .",
    "in _ proceedings of the workshop on open infrastructures and analysis frameworks for hlt ( oiaf4hlt ) at coling 2014 _ , pages 111 , dublin , ireland .",
    "judith eckle - kohler and iryna gurevych .",
    "2012 . . in _ proceedings of the 13th conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics ( eacl )",
    ", pages 550560 , avignon , france .",
    "judith eckle - kohler , michael kohler , and jens mehnert .",
    "automatic recognition of german news focusing on future - directed beliefs and intentions .",
    ", 22(4):394414 , october .",
    "judith eckle - kohler .",
    ". logos - verlag , berlin , germany .",
    "phd thesis , universitt stuttgart , germany .",
    "gertrud faa and kerstin eckart .",
    "2013 . . in iryna gurevych , chris biemann , and torsten zesch , editors , _ language processing and knowledge in the web",
    ": proceedings of the 25th conference of the german society for computational linguistics ( gscl 2013 ) , darmstadt , germany , september 25 - 27 , 2013 .",
    "_ , pages 6168 .",
    "springer , berlin , heidelberg .",
    "arne fitschen .",
    "2004 . .",
    "danilo giampiccolo , bernardo magnini , ido dagan , and bill dolan .",
    "2009 . . in _ proceedings of the workshop on textual entailment and paraphrasing at acl 2009 _ ,",
    "pages 19 , prague , czech republic .",
    "jonathan ginzburg .",
    "1996 . . in shalom lappin , editor , _ the handbook of contemporary semantic theory",
    "_ , pages 385422 .",
    "blackwell , oxford , uk .",
    "ralph grishman , catherine macleod , and adam meyers .",
    "1994 . . in _ proceedings of the 15th international conference on computational linguistics ( coling )",
    "_ , pages 268272 , kyoto , japan .",
    "iryna gurevych , judith eckle - kohler , silvana hartmann , michael matuschek , christian  m. meyer , and christian wirth .",
    "2012 . . in _ proceedings of the 13th conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistics ( eacl )",
    "_ , pages 580590 , avignon , france .",
    "valentine hacquard .",
    "2011 . modality . in claudia",
    "maienborn , klaus von heusinger , and paul portner , editors , _ semantics : an international handbook of natural language meaning .",
    "hsk 33.2 _ , pages 14841515 .",
    "berlin : mouton de gruyter .",
    "joshua  k. hartshorne , claire bonial , and martha palmer . 2014 . . in _ proceedings of the 52nd annual meeting of the association for computational linguistics ( acl )",
    "_ , pages 397402 , baltimore , md , usa .    lauri karttunen",
    ". 1971 . . ,",
    "pages 340358 .",
    "lauri karttunen .",
    "in _ * sem 2012 : the first joint conference on lexical and computational semantics _ , pages 124131 , montral , canada .",
    "paul kiparsky and carol kiparsky , 1970 . .",
    "mouton , the hague .",
    "karin kipper , anna korhonen , neville ryant , and marthe palmer .",
    "2006 . . in _ proceedings of the 5th international conference on language resources and evaluation ( lrec )",
    "_ , pages 10271032 , genoa , italy .",
    "karin kipper , anna korhonen , neville ryant , and martha palmer .",
    ", 42:2140 .",
    "anna korhonen and ted briscoe .",
    "2004 . . in _ proceedings of the workshop on computational lexical semantics at hlt - naacl 2004 _ , pages 3845 , boston , massachusetts , usa .",
    "ralf krestel , sabine bergler , and ren witte .",
    "2008 . . in nicoletta",
    "calzolari et  al . ,",
    "editor , _ proceedings of the 6th international conference on language resources and evaluation ( lrec ) _ ,",
    "pages 28232828 , marrakech , morocco .",
    "claudia kunze and lothar lemnitzer .",
    "in _ proceedings of the 3rd international conference on language resources and evaluation ( lrec ) _ , pages 14851491 , las palmas , canary islands , spain",
    ".    dave kush .",
    "2011 . . in _ proceedings of the 21st semantics and linguistic theory conference",
    "_ , pages 413425 , new brunswick , new jersey , usa .",
    "brenda laca .",
    "2013 . . in karina",
    "veronica molsing and ana maria  tramunt ibaos , editors , _ time and tame in language _ , pages 158180 .",
    "cambridge scholars publishing , newcastle upon tyne , uk .",
    "beth levin .",
    "the university of chicago press , chicago , usa .",
    "beth levin .",
    ", 1(1):6383 .",
    "beth levin .",
    "in andrej malchukov and bernard comrie , editors , _ valency classes in the world s languages ( volume 2 ) : case studies from austronesia , the pacific , the americas , and theoretical outlook _ , pages 16271670 .",
    "berlin , boston : de gruyter mouton .",
    "amnon lotan , asher stern , and ido dagan .",
    "2013 . . in _ proceedings of the 2013 conference of the north american chapter of the association for computational linguistics : human language technologies",
    "_ , pages 752757 , atlanta , georgia .",
    "paola merlo and suzanne stevenson . 2001 . .",
    ", 27(3):373408 , september .",
    "rowan nairn , cleo condoravdi , and lauri karttunen .",
    "pages 2021 .",
    "malvina nissim , paola pietrandrea , andrea sanso , and caterina mauri .",
    "2013 . . in _ proceedings of the 9th joint iso - acl sigsem workshop on interoperable semantic annotation",
    ", pages 714 , potsdam , germany .",
    "vinodkumar prabhakaran , owen rambow , and mona diab .",
    "2010 . . in _ proceedings of the 23rd international conference on computational linguistics ( coling )",
    "_ , pages 10141022 , beijing , china .",
    "roser saur and james pustejovsky .",
    "in _ proceedings of the international conference on semantic computing _ , icsc 07 , pages 509516 , washington , dc , usa .",
    "ieee computer society .",
    "roser saur and james pustejovsky . 2009 . .",
    ", 43(3):227268 .",
    "roser saur and james pustejovsky .",
    ", 38(2):261299 , june .",
    "roser saur , robert knippen , marc verhagen , and james pustejovsky .",
    "2005 . . in _ proceedings of the conference on human language technology and empirical methods in natural language processing",
    ", hlt 05 , pages 700707 , vancouver , british columbia , canada .",
    "roser saur .",
    "2008 . .",
    "daniel schnorbusch .",
    "2004 . in stefan langer and daniel schnorbusch , editors , _",
    "semantik i m lexikon _ , pages 3358 .",
    "gunter narr verlag , tbingen .",
    "sabine schulte i m walde .",
    "32(2):159194 , june .",
    "kerstin schwabe and robert fittler .",
    "in peter bosch , david gabelaia , and jrme lang , editors , _ logic , language , and computation _ , volume 5422 of _ lecture notes in computer science _ , pages 229241 .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg .",
    "gyrgy szarvas , veronika vincze , richrd farkas , gyrgy mra , and iryna gurevych .",
    "38(2):335367 , june .",
    "in order to count the occurrences of verb lemmas in the german corpus sdewac , we used a reader and pre - processing components ( i.e. , the languagetool segmenter and the treetagger for pos tagging and lemmatization ) from the dkpro core collection @xcite . from dkpro core , we also used a component that detects separated particles of german particle verbs and replaces the lemma of the verb base form annotated by the treetagger by the true lemma of the particle verb .",
    "our verb lemma counting pipeline is available at github.com/ukplab/acl2016-modality-verbclasses .",
    "@l sense linking based on subcategorization frames + get lexical entry @xmath0 of source verb @xmath1 + get equivalent verb @xmath2 in target lexicon + get lexical entry @xmath3 of target verb @xmath2 + * forall * frame @xmath4 in @xmath0 + get listofarguments @xmath5 of @xmath4 + frame @xmath6 in @xmath3 + get sense @xmath7 of frame @xmath6 + get listofarguments @xmath8 of @xmath6 + @xmath9 ) = @xmath10 ) + and @xmath11 ) = @xmath12 ) + link @xmath13 and @xmath7 +   +   + * end for * +    for the linking - based evaluation , we used uby ( version 0.7.0 ) versions of the following three resources : the german wordnet germanet ( version 9.0 ) , the english lexicons verbnet ( version 3.2 ) and framenet ( version 1.5 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we revisit levin s theory about the correspondence of verb meaning and syntax and infer semantic classes from a large syntactic classification of more than 600 german verbs taking clausal and non - finite arguments . grasping the meaning components of levin - classes is known to be hard . </S>",
    "<S> we address this challenge by setting up a multi - perspective semantic characterization of the inferred classes . to this end , we link the inferred classes and their english translation to independently constructed semantic classes in three different lexicons  the german wordnet germanet , verbnet and framenet  and perform a detailed analysis and evaluation of the resulting german  english classification ( available at link : www.ukp.tu - darmstadt.de/ modality - verbclasses/[www.ukp.tu - darmstadt.de/ modality - verbclasses/ ] ) . </S>"
  ]
}