{
  "article_text": [
    "early x - ray light - curves of gamma ray bursts ( grbs ) present complex temporal behaviour . specifically , in many grbs the initial light - curve falls very steeply ( this is known as the  steep decay \" phase ) and then exhibits a very shallow declining phase (  the plateau \" ) before settling at the  regular \" ( @xmath1 ) decay expected from the external forward shock .",
    "one of the most interesting features in these light - curves is the occurrence of  x - ray flares \" in approximately 1/3 of grbs @xcite .",
    "these flares occur between @xmath2sec after the burst trigger , exhibit significant re - brightening ( up to a factor of 500 in some cases ) and are associated with the release of large isotropic equivalent energies ( for the early time flares , on average 0.1 of the energy released during the prompt , and in some cases comparable ) . on average , these flares",
    "last @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the time of the flare s onset , after which the light - curve goes back to the same temporal and spectral fluxes exhibited right before the flares .",
    "the existence of an underlying continuum with the same slopes before and after the flaring activity as well as the flares highly variable nature , makes it highly unlikely that flares are produced by the same component as the continuum emission dominating before and after each flare , i.e. the forward external shock .",
    "therefore , the flares are likely the result of the same mechanism producing the prompt emission .",
    "all this has led previous authors to consider the possibility that flares are produced by prolonged activity of the grb central engine @xcite .",
    "this activity , up to @xmath5sec after the trigger is non - trivial to understand in the context of black holes and provides some support for magnetar central engines for grbs @xcite . nonetheless , there have also been several proposals to generate flares within the black hole central engine models,(see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in the present work we are not limiting ourselves to a specific central engine model",
    ", although some of the  challenges \" below , turn out to be more limiting for magnetars than for black holes .",
    "we outline a number of challenges that must be resolved in any model that attempts to explain x - ray flares .    1 .",
    "there is a broad range of typical flare time - scales .",
    "in addition , these times are generally much longer than the prompt variability time - scale",
    ". any model attempting to explain flares , should be able to reproduce this range of time - scales .",
    "this is non - trivial ; for instance , in the magnetar scenario the natural time - scale would be the magnetar spin down time .",
    "if this time is associated with either the prompt or the flares , it would not be able to account for the other .",
    "while strong flares are regularly observed in x - rays , no strong flaring behaviour is observed in the optical band at the same time ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this implies that the spectral slope of the flare emission between these two bands must be very hard .",
    "upper limits on the optical flux at a few tens up to a few hundreds of seconds , are typically between 0.1mjy and 5mjy ( at @xmath6 ) @xcite .",
    "specifically , @xcite , study 8 flares selected for their brightness in x - rays , showing that in all these flares the spectral slopes between the optical and x - ray bands , should be harder than @xmath7 in order not to over produce optical radiation as compared with observations .",
    "this significantly limits possible emission models for the flares , and in particular implies that in order for synchrotron models ( either in the slow or fast cooling regimes ) to be viable , the spectrum has to become self absorbed somewhere between optical and x - rays , and the spectral slope below this frequency should become much harder . a similar situation occurs during the prompt phase and has been used to significantly limit the possible emission mechanism of the prompt grb and the jet composition at the emission site @xcite .",
    "+ for the case of slow cooling synchrotron , even a self absorption break at @xmath8 ( where @xmath9 is the frequency of the optical band ) is typically sufficient to suppress the optical flux below the observed limits during the flares starting at @xmath10sec we note that in the fast cooling regime , the extrapolated flux below the x - ray band increases and therefore also the required @xmath11 to sufficiently suppress the optical flux , increases .",
    "however , by definition , the quantity : @xmath12 ( where @xmath13 is the spectral slope below the self absorption frequency ) will remain constant in this process , thus leaving the upper limits on the radius given by eq .",
    "[ eq : radiuslim ] unchanged . for the synchrotron self absorption frequency , @xmath14 , to be larger than @xmath11 , the maximum allowed radius where the radiation is produces is given by : @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the lorentz factor of the matter producing the flare , @xmath17 is the observed specific flux at @xmath18 during the flares starting at @xmath19sec @xcite , @xmath20 is the luminosity distance and @xmath21 is the typical thermal lorentz factors of the electrons radiating synchrotron at @xmath14 and is given by : @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the magnetic field in the jet frame and in the last transition it has been related to the jet luminosity , @xmath24 , the radius , @xmath25 and the magnetization @xmath26 ( the relative energy density in magnetic fields compared to that in particles ) .",
    "this leads to : @xmath27 where @xmath28 and @xmath29 cm .",
    "this consideration therefore significantly limits the allowed radius for producing the flares .",
    "this upper limit can become even smaller in case particles are accelerated in shocks ( which is likely for baryonic jets ) to form a non - thermal spectrum above some minimum lorentz factor @xmath30 . in this case @xmath21 in eq .",
    "[ gammae ] is replaced by @xmath31 and the limit on @xmath25 could be decreased .",
    "in addition , pic simulations suggest that locally the magnetic field may be significantly weaker than the equipartition value for shock acceleration of particles @xcite",
    ". this would require slightly hotter electrons ( since from eq .",
    "[ gammae ] , @xmath32 ) and would imply smaller radii given the same observed flux .",
    "the limits on radius and lorentz factor are shown in fig .",
    "[ radiuslim ] , in comparison with the radius determined by the variability time scale for a flare starting at @xmath19sec . in case",
    "the emission radius is set by the latter , the lorentz factor of the flare producing material is also significantly constrained by this consideration , to be @xmath33 .",
    "3 .   in the magnetar model ,",
    "the energy source for the flares would be the rotational energy of the magnetar .",
    "however , the magnetar is expected to spin down very fast , leading to a decrease in the available energy for flares ( which would become more severe for flares emitted at later times ) . for a general spin - down mechanism with a braking index of @xmath34 ,",
    "the energy goes down as @xmath35 , which for dipole radiation implies @xmath36 .",
    "the energy in flares , indeed seems to be falling down in time ( at least initially ) , although at a somewhat different rate : @xcite show that @xmath37 for flares that start up to @xmath38sec and @xmath39 for flares between 1000sec and @xmath5sec .",
    "however , the real problem is that the breaking index ( @xmath34 ) should be @xmath40 in order for the magnetar model to be able to explain the rapid decline phase of the x - ray light - curves @xcite , seen between @xmath41sec . in other words",
    ", one needs @xmath42 or faster to explain the x - ray steep decline up to @xmath38sec after the trigger , but in that case the rotational energy in the magnetar is too little to explain the late time flares .",
    "4 .   a related issue has to do with the energy required for the jet to carve out a cavity through the polar region of the grb progenitor star .",
    "the energy required for this process is likely very large ( e.g @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , if the central engine stops operating after producing the prompt gamma - rays and then restarts at @xmath43sec or later , the polar cavity opened by the prompt jet would have already closed and the flare material would have to re - open this cavity .",
    "it would therefore have to be initially significantly more energetic as compared with estimates based on the flux eventually emitted during the flares ( which are already huge and highly constraining , as mentioned above ) .",
    "motivated by the considerations discussed in  [ motivation ] ,",
    "in particular x - rays being produced close to the photosphere and the difficulty of reopening the polar cavity if the x - ray jet is launched after a period of central engine inactivity , we present a model for x - ray flares where the central engine activity is confined to a short time period of order less than @xmath44sec .",
    "we consider a scenario in which the prompt emission and flare(s ) are emitted from the photospheric radius . in our model , both the material producing the prompt phase of the emission and that producing the flare(s ) are ejected from the central engine at the same time , but with different velocities .",
    "the fast material produces the prompt phase of the emission as it reaches its photosphere , whereas the slower material eventually dissipates its energy and produces the flare(s ) as it reaches its own ( further out ) photosphere . due to the steep dependence of the photosphere ( and the corresponding observed time - scale for the emission ) on the lorentz factor of the material , a variation in the lorentz factor by less than an order of magnitude is likely to be sufficient to account for the large difference in the prompt vs. flare typical variability time - scales",
    "this model may naturally resolve the challenges presented above associated with producing flares :    1 .",
    "the different time - scales associated with the onset and duration of the prompt and flares , are naturally reproduced from a single time - scale at the source .",
    "2 .   the small radius from which the flares are emitted enables the optical radiation to be sufficiently suppressed below detection level , consistent with observations .",
    "since the flare emitting material is ejected together with or just after the prompt emitting material , there is sufficient energy in the magnetar at the time of ejection to produce the flare .",
    "4 .   the fact that the flare emitting material is ejected together with the prompt emitting material , implies also that the former can pass more easily through the surrounding environment , and does not have to invest large amounts of energy just to re - open the cavity in order to punch through the surface of the progenitor star , as is the case for models invoking late time activity for the central engine .",
    "consider a jet moving at a lorentz factor of @xmath16 .",
    "the jet luminosity is given by : @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the mass loss rate .",
    "the optical depth to compton scatterings is given by : @xmath47 where @xmath48 is the jet density in the co - moving frame and where we have made use of eq .",
    "the optical depth decreases with increasing radius until it reaches @xmath49 at the photosphere , which we assume as the radius of emission ( see fig .",
    "[ radiuslim ] ) .",
    "the emission radius in this model may be slightly below the photosphere , as in any case the radiation will be trapped up until the photospheric radius . however , dissipation can not occur much below this radius , since in this case the jet could suffer significant adiabatic losses between the dissipation and emission radii , leading to greatly increased requirements on the energy source and resulting in a significant re - brightening of the afterglow , contrary to observations . assuming that the shell contributing to the radiation is narrow ( @xmath50 ) , emission from this radius would last for : @xmath51 notice that this time depends very strongly on @xmath16 , implying a large range of variability times , from the shortest flares to the longest ones , would be obtained from a relatively narrow distribution in @xmath16 ( this would also imply the same underlying mechanism producing the prompt and flares variabilities ) .",
    "we note that it is very natural to expect a distribution of lorentz factors in the flow , since it is unlikely that the flow would be very regular . assuming that both the prompt phase and the flares are produced from their corresponding photospheres , eq .",
    "[ tphoto ] , implies that : @xmath52 where the sub - script  grb \" refers to the parameters for the material creating the prompt emission and the sub - script  f \" to the same parameters for the flare emitting material . as an example , for a flare starting at @xmath43sec , with @xmath53sec , @xmath54 a decrease in @xmath16 by a factor of @xmath55 ( for the same magnetization ) is sufficient to obtain a @xmath56sec . due to the strong dependence on @xmath16",
    ", the qualitative result will hold even if the magnetization is quite different for the different materials .",
    "in addition , since the flare emitting material was emitted at early times , roughly together with the prompt emitting material , a magnetar source would still have sufficient rotational energy during the launching phase to power the observed flare energies ( see  [ motivation ] ) .    finally , consider the spectrum below the x - ray band .",
    "since we are considering photospheric emission , the emitting region is compact and the spectrum in our model is likely to be self absorbed above the optical band . keeping the emission mechanism general , @xmath14 , satisfies : @xmath57 where @xmath58 is the typical thermal lorentz factor of the emitting electrons and @xmath59 is the observed flux at @xmath14 .",
    "the largest possible radius where the emission can be produced and still become self - absorbed in the optical band is the photospheric radius .",
    "plugging this into the equation above implies : @xmath60 where we have used @xmath53sec typical for a flare starting at 300sec to obtain a lower limit on @xmath61 .",
    "given the large expected value of @xmath62 , eq .",
    "[ selfabs ] implies that the spectrum is very likely self absorbed above the optical band ( as required by observations ) even if the electrons producing the radiation have quite large @xmath58 .",
    "specifically , we note that this holds for the case of synchrotron emission , as can be seen from eq .",
    "[ eq : radiuslim ] and fig .",
    "[ radiuslim ] .",
    "note however , that though necessary , this consideration is not sufficient .",
    "it is possible that even if the radiation is produced at @xmath63 , the spectrum below @xmath14 can be flat due to the effect of ic scatterings ( @xcite , etc . ) .",
    "this condition should therefore be self - consistently verified for any detailed model attempting to explain grb flares .",
    "given the distribution of flare luminosity with time , we can determine the required distribution of jet luminosity as a function of @xmath16 , within the model proposed in this paper .",
    "the observed distribution is approximately @xcite : @xmath64 in our model , we have @xmath65 , leading to : @xmath66",
    "observations of grb flares strongly constrain the possible models . specifically , models should be able to explain the broad range of typical observed time - scales and the strong suppression of the optical compared to the x - ray flux . although a synchrotron origin for the observed x - ray emission can not be ruled out by the data , the relative lack of optical to x - ray flux implies a self absorbed source below @xmath67 , leading to a small emission radius : @xmath68 and also a relatively small lorentz factor , in case the radius is set by the variability time - scale ( @xmath69 for a flare starting at @xmath43sec ) .",
    "in addition flare models should be able to account for the considerable amounts of energies to be released as late flares ( which poses a difficulty for the late time central engine activity model that invokes a rapidly rotating magnetar ) and have enough energy not only to power the observed flare but also to allow the flare emitting jet ( or outflow ) to punch through the progenitor star .",
    "we have considered a model in which x - ray flares and prompt grb radiation have a common central engine .",
    "we suggested that both the material producing the prompt grb and that producing the flare(s ) are ejected from the central engine at more or less the same time but at different speeds .",
    "the fast outflow produces the prompt grb as it reaches its photosphere , whereas the slower material eventually produces the flare(s ) as it reaches its own ( further out ) photosphere . due to",
    "the steep dependence of the observed time - scale in this model on the lorentz factor of the material , a small variation in the lorentz factor can account for the large difference in the prompt vs. flare typical variability time - scales .",
    "the small emission radius in this model can allow for self absorbed spectra at the optical band .",
    "in addition , since the flare jet is produced at an early time , there is still a large energy reservoir available at that time .",
    "finally the flare material follows on the tail end of the prompt jet , before the polar cavity of the star has closed , and so can break out through the surface of the grb progenitor star with little expenditure of energy .    another important test for any model attempting to explain late time flares regards their observed steep decays . in models",
    "in which the flare variability is associated with the angular time - scale , one can expect the decay to be dominated by high latitude emission ( @xmath70 where @xmath71 is the spectral slope ) .",
    "however , observationally , the decays are much steeper , with decay slopes between -10 and -100 even after correcting for the most conservative value of the  zero time \" , @xmath72 @xcite .",
    "one of the ways that a very fast decay ( including , potentially , an exponential decay ) of the x - ray light - curve may arise in the model proposed here , is if the angular size of the x - ray flare jet is @xmath73 .",
    "this is natural to expect in our model since the flare jet lorentz factor is of order @xmath74 ( fig .",
    "[ radiuslim ] ) and its angular size is set by the size of the polar cavity in the progenitor star that the high lorentz factor ( and high luminosity ) gamma - ray producing jet had carved out ( which we know from observations to be of order @xmath75 ) . since in this case",
    "there is very little radiation produced at latitudes @xmath76 , the light - curve s slope due to high - latitude emission is not limited to @xmath77 , and in fact , the flux could fall off much more rapidly .",
    "the exact shape of the light - curve will depend on the angular spread of energies within the flare producing jet , @xmath78 , on the lorentz factor at different directions , @xmath79 and on the rate of jet energy dissipation below the thomson photosphere at different radii and angles . a further test for the applicability of such models would be to perform a detailed calculation of the expected light - curves from these models and compare the results against the observed light - curves .",
    "finally , we remark that although they have different energetics and time - scales , flares share many similarities with prompt grb pulses , such as  fast rise - exponential decay \" time profiles @xcite , a pulse width that decreases with the observed frequency as approximately @xmath80 @xcite and a correlation between peak frequency and luminosity @xcite .",
    "this suggests that either these effects are purely dynamical ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) or else grb pulses and flares share a common radiation mechanism",
    ". a better understanding of grb flares could shed some light on the yet unknown prompt emission mechanism .",
    "we would like to thank raffaella margutti , rodolfo barniol duran and patrick crumley for helpful discussions .",
    "we are very grateful to the referee for his / her careful reading of the paper , and for extremely insightful comments and suggestions which substantially improved the paper .    99 beniamini , p. , @xmath81 granot , j. , 2015 , arxiv:1509.02192 .",
    "beniamini , p. , @xmath81 piran , t. , 2014 , mnras , 445 , 3892b .",
    "bromberg , o. , @xmath81 tchekhovskoy , a. , 2015 , mnras , arxiv:1508.02721 .",
    "burrows , d. n. , hill , j. e. , nousek , j. a. , et al . 2005 , space science reviews , 120 , 165 .",
    "burrows , d. n. , romano , p. , falcone , a. , et al .",
    "2005a , science,309 , 1833 .",
    "cao , x. , liang , e .- w .",
    ", @xmath81 yuan , y .- f . 2014 , apj , 789 , 129c .",
    "chincarini , g. , mao , j. , margutti , r. , et al .",
    "2010 , mnras , 406,2113 .",
    "curran , p.a .",
    ", starling , r.l.c . , obrien , p.t . , godet , o. , van der horst , a.j",
    ". , wijers , r.a.m.j .",
    "2008 , a@xmath81a , 487 , 533 dai , z. g. , wang , x. y. , wu , x. f. , zhang , b. , 2006 , science 311 , 11271129 .",
    "falcone , a. d. , morris , d. , racusin , j. , et al .",
    "2007 , apj , 671 , 1921 .",
    "fan , y. z. , @xmath81 wei , d. m. 2005 , mnras , 364 , l42 .",
    "ghisellini , g. , celotti , a. , 1999 , apj , 511 , l93 .",
    "king , a. , obrien , p. t. , goad , m. r. , et al .",
    "2005 , apjl , 630 , l113 .",
    "kumar , p. @xmath81 zhang , b. 2015 , physics reports , 561 , 1 .",
    "kluzniak , w. , ruderman , m. , 1998 , apj 505 , l113l117 .",
    "lee , w. h. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , @xmath81 lpez - cmara , d. 2009 , apjl , 699 , l93 .",
    "macfadyen a. i. , woosley s. e. , 1999 , apj , 524 , 262 .",
    "matzner , c. d. 2003 , mnras , 345 , 575 .",
    "margutti , r. , guidorzi , c. , chincarini , g. , et al . 2010 , mnras , 406 , 2149 .",
    "margutti , r. , bernardini , g. , barniol duran , r. , et al .",
    "2011 , mnras 410 , 10641075 .",
    "mszros , p. @xmath81 rees , m. j. 2000 , apj , 530 , 292 .",
    "perna , r. , armitage , p. j. , @xmath81 zhang , b. 2006 , apjl , 636 , l29 .",
    "proga , d. , @xmath81 zhang , b. 2006 , mnras , 370 , l61 .",
    "ramirez - ruiz e. , celotti a. , rees m. j. , 2002 , mnras , 337 , 1349 .",
    "santana , r. , kumar , p. , 2015",
    ", in prep . shen",
    "@xmath81 zhang b. , 2009 , mnras , 398 , 1936 .",
    "swenson c. a. , roming p. w. a. de pasquale , m. , et al .",
    ", 2013 , apj , 774 , 2 .",
    "sironi , l. , @xmath81 spitkovsky , a. 2011 , apj , 726 , 75 .",
    "tagliaferri , g. , goad , m. , chincarini , g. , et al .",
    "2005 , nature , 436 , 985 .",
    "thompson , c. 1994 , mnras , 270 , 480 .",
    "troja , e. , piro , l. , vasileiou , v. , et al .",
    "2015 , apj , 803 , 10 t .",
    "uhm , z. l. , @xmath81 zhang , b. 2015 , arxiv:1509.03296 .",
    "woosley s. e. , 1993 , apj , 405 , 273 zhang , b. , fan , y. z. , dyks , j. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 642 , 354 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of x - ray flares from gamma ray bursts ( grbs ) imply strong constraints on possible physical models . </S>",
    "<S> we provide a general discussion of these . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we show that in order to account for the relatively flat and weak optical flux during the x - ray flares , the size of the emitting region should be @xmath0 cm . </S>",
    "<S> the bolometric luminosity of flares also strongly constrain the energy budget , and are inconsistent with late time activity of a central engine powered by the spin - down of a magnetar . </S>",
    "<S> we provide a simple toy model according to which flares are produced by an outflow of modest lorentz factor ( a few tens instead of hundreds ) that is launched more or less simultaneously with the highly relativistic jet which produced the prompt gamma - ray emission . </S>",
    "<S> the  slower \" moving outflow produces the flare as it reaches its photosphere . </S>",
    "<S> if the x - ray flare jets are structured , the existence of such a component may naturally resolve the observational challenges imposed by flares , outlined in this work .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gamma - ray burst : general </S>"
  ]
}