{
  "article_text": [
    "humans have evolved large brains , in part to handle the cognitive demands of social relationships  @xcite .",
    "the social structures resulting from these relationships confer numerous fitness advantages .",
    "scholars distinguish between two types of social relationships : those representing strong and weak ties .",
    "strong ties are characterized by high frequency of interaction and emotional intimacy that can be found in relationships between family members or close friends .",
    "people connected by strong ties share mutual friends  @xcite , forming cohesive social bonds that are essential for providing emotional and material support  @xcite and creating resilient communities  @xcite .",
    "in contrast , weak ties represent more casual social relationships , characterized by less frequent , less intense interactions , such as those occurring between acquaintances . by bridging otherwise unconnected communities ,",
    "weak ties expose individuals to novel and diverse information that leads to new job prospects  @xcite and career opportunities  @xcite .",
    "online social relationships provide similar benefits to those of the offline relationships , including emotional support and exposure to novel and diverse information  @xcite .",
    "how and why do people form different social ties , whether online or offline ?",
    "of the few studies that addressed this question , shea et al .",
    "@xcite examined the relationship between emotions and cognitive social structures , i.e. , the mental representations individuals form of their social contacts  @xcite . in a laboratory study",
    ", they demonstrated that subjects experiencing positive affect , e.g. , emotions such as happiness , were able to recall a larger number of more diverse and sparsely connected social contacts than those experiencing negative affect , e.g. , sadness .",
    "in other words , they found that positive affect was more closely associated with weak ties and negative affect with strong ties in cognitive social structures .",
    "this is consistent with findings that negative emotional experiences are shared more frequently through strong ties  @xcite , not only to seek support but also as a means of strengthening the tie  @xcite .",
    "in addition to psychological factors , social structures also depend on the participants socioeconomic and demographic characteristics . a study , which reconstructed a national - scale social network from the phone records of people living in the united kingdom , found that people living in more prosperous regions formed more diverse social networks , linking them to others living in distinct communities  @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", people living in less prosperous communities formed less diverse , more cohesive social structures .",
    "the present paper examines how psychological and demographic factors affect the structure of online social interactions .",
    "we restrict our attention to interactions on the twitter microblogging platform . to study these interactions , we collected a large body of geo - referenced text messages , known as tweets , from a large us metropolitan area .",
    "further , we linked these tweets to us census tracts through their locations . census _",
    "tracts _ are small regions , on a scale of city blocks , that are relatively homogeneous with respect to population characteristics , economic status , and living conditions .",
    "some of the tweets also contained explicit references to other users through the ` @ ' mention convention , which has been widely adopted on twitter for conversations .",
    "we used mentions to measure the strength of social ties of people tweeting from each tract . using these data we studied ( at tract level ) the relationship between social ties , the socioeoconomic characteristics of the tract , and the emotions expressed by people tweeting from that tract .",
    "in addition , people tweeting from one tract often tweeted from other tracts .",
    "since geography is a strong organizing principle , for both offline  @xcite and online  @xcite social relationships , we measured the spatial diversity of social relationships , and studied its dependence on socioeconomic , demographic , and psychological factors .",
    "our work complements previous studies of offline social networks and demonstrates a connection between the structure of online interactions in urban places and their socioeconomic characteristics .",
    "more importantly , it links the structure of online interactions to positive affect .",
    "people who express happier emotions interact with a more diverse set social contacts , which puts them in a position to access , and potentially take advantage of , novel information . as our social interactions increasingly move online , understanding , and being able to unobtrusively monitor , online social structures at a macroscopic level is important to ensuring equal access to the benefits of social relationships .    in the rest of the paper , we first describe data collection and methods used to measure emotion and social structure .",
    "then , we present results of a statistical study of social ties and their relationships to emotions and demographic factors .",
    "the related works are addressed after this .",
    "although many important caveats exist about generalizing results of the study , especially to offline social interactions , our work highlights the value of linking social media data to traditional data sources , such as us census , to drive novel analysis of online behavior and online social structures .",
    "eagle et al .  @xcite explored the link between socioeconomic factors and network structure using anonymized phone call records to reconstruct the national - level network of people living in the uk .",
    "measures of socioeconomic development were constructed from the uk government s index of multiple deprivation ( imd ) , a composite measure of prosperity based on income , employment , education , health , crime , housing of different regions within the country .",
    "they found that people living in more prosperous regions formed more diverse social networks , linking them to others living in distinct communities . on the other hand",
    ", people living in less prosperous communities formed less diverse , more cohesive social structures .",
    "quercia et al .",
    "@xcite found that sentiment expressed in tweets posted around 78 census areas of london correlated highly with community socioeconomic well being , as measured by the index of multiple deprivation ( i.e. , qualitative study of deprived areas in the uk local councils ) . in another study  @xcite they found that happy places tend to interact with other happy places , although other indicators such as demographic data and human mobility were not used in their research  @xcite .",
    "other researcher used demographic factors and associated them to sentiment analysis to measure happiness in different places . for instance , mitchell et al .",
    "@xcite generated taxonomies of us states and cities based on their similarities in word use and estimates the happiness levels of these states and cities .",
    "then , the authors correlated highly - resolved demographic characteristics with happiness levels and connected word choice and message length with urban characteristics such as education levels and obesity rates , showing that social media may potentially be used to estimate real - time levels and changes in population - scale measures , such as obesity rates .",
    "psychological and cognitive states affect the types of social connections people form and their ability to recall them  @xcite .",
    "when people experience positive emotions , or affect , they broaden their cognitive scope , widening the array of thoughts and actions that come to mind  @xcite .",
    "in contrast , experiencing negative emotions narrow attention to the basic actions necessary for survival .",
    "shea et al .",
    "@xcite tested these theories in a laboratory , examining the relationship between emotions and the structure of networks people were able to recall .",
    "they found that subjects experiencing positive affect were able to recall a larger number of more diverse and sparsely connected social contacts than those experiencing negative emotions .",
    "the study did not resolve the question of how many of the contacts people were able to recall that they proceeded to actively engage .",
    "a number of innovative research works attempted to better understand human emotion and mobility .",
    "some of these works focuses on geo - tagged location data extracted from foursquare and twitter .",
    "researchers reported  @xcite that foursquare users usually check - in at venues they perceived as more interesting and express actions similar to other social media , such as facebook and twitter .",
    "foursquare check - ins are , in many cases , biased : while some users provide important feedback by checking - in at venues and share their engagement , others subvert the rules by deliberately creating unofficial duplicate and nonexistent venues  @xcite .",
    "los angeles ( la ) county is the most populous county in the united states , with almost 10 million residents .",
    "it is extremely diverse both demographically and economically , making it an attractive subject for research .",
    "we collected a large body of tweets from la county over the course of 4 months , starting in july 2014 .",
    "our data collection strategy was as follows .",
    "first , we used twitter s location search api to collect tweets from an area that included los angeles county .",
    "we then used twitter4j api to collect all ( timeline ) tweets from users who tweeted from within this area during this time period .",
    "a portion of these tweets were geo - referenced , i.e. they had geographic coordinates attached to them . in all , we collected 6 m geo - tagged tweets made by 340k distinct users .",
    "we localized geo - tagged tweets to tracts from the 2012 us census .",
    "a tract is a geographic region that is defined for the purpose of taking a census of a population , containing about 4,000 residents on average , and is designed to be relatively homogeneous with respect to demographic characteristics of that population .",
    "we included only los angeles county tracts in the analysis .",
    "we used data from the us census to obtain demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of a tract , including the mean household income , median age of residents , percentage of residents with a bachelor s degree or above , as well as racial and ethnic composition of the tract .      to measure emotions ,",
    "we apply sentiment analysis  @xcite , i.e. methods that process text to quantify subjective states of the author of the text .",
    "two recent independent benchmark studies evaluate a wide variety of sentiment analysis tools in various social media  @xcite and twitter datasets  @xcite . across social media ,",
    "one of the best performing tools is sentistrength  @xcite , which also was shown to be the best unsupervised tool for tweets in various contexts  @xcite .",
    "sentistrength quantifies emotions expressed in short informal text by matching terms from a lexicon and applying intensifiers , negations , misspellings , idioms , and emoticons .",
    "we use the standard english version of sentistrength to each tweet in our dataset , quantifying positive sentiment @xmath0 and negative sentiment @xmath1 , consistently with the positive and negative affect schedule ( panas )  @xcite .",
    "sentistrength has been shown to perform very closely to human raters in validity tests  @xcite and has been applied to measure emotions in product reviews  @xcite , online chatrooms  @xcite , yahoo answers  @xcite , and youtube comments  @xcite .",
    "in addition , sentistrength allows our approach to be applied in the future to other languages , like spanish  @xcite , and to include contextual factors  @xcite , like sarcasm  @xcite .    beyond positivity and negativity",
    ", meanings expressed through text can be captured through the application of the semantic differential  @xcite , a dimensional approach that quantifies emotional meaning in terms of valence , arousal , and dominance  @xcite .",
    "the dimension of _ valence _ quantifies the level of pleasure or evaluation expressed by a word , _ arousal _ measures the level of activity induced by the emotions associated with a word , and _ dominance _ quantifies the level of subjective power or potency experienced in relation to an emotional word .",
    "research in psychology suggests that a multidimensional approach is necessary to capture the variance of emotional experience  @xcite , motivating our three - dimensional measurement beyond simple polarity approximations .",
    "the state of the art in the quantification of these three dimensions is the lexicon of warriner , kuperman , and brysbaert ( wkb )  @xcite .",
    "the wkb lexicon includes scores in the three dimensions for more than 13,000 english lemmas .",
    "we quantify these three dimensions in a tweet by first lemmatizing the words in the tweet , to then match the lexicon and compute mean values of the three dimensions as in @xcite . the large size of this lexicon allows us to match terms in in 82.39% of the tweets in our dataset , which we aggregate to produce multidimensional measures of emotions .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     figure  [ fig : mobility - demo ] shows the association between spatial diversity and demographic characteristics .",
    "income does not appear to significantly affect spatial diversity : only the top tertile of tracts by incomes has a significantly different spatial diversity ( @xmath2 ) from the other two tertiles .",
    "education , however , has a stronger dependence : tracts with better - educated residents also have significantly higher ( @xmath2 ) spatial diversity than tracts with fewer educated residents .",
    "in addition , ethnicity appears to be a factor .",
    "tracts with larger hispanic population have significantly lower spatial diversity ( @xmath3 ) than other tracts .",
    "the availability of large scale , near real - time data from social media sites such as twitter brings novel opportunities for studying online behavior and social interactions at an unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution . by combining twitter data with us census",
    ", we were able to study how the socioeconomic and demographic characteristics of residents of different census tracts are related to the structure of online interactions of users tweeting from these tracts .",
    "moreover , sentiment analysis of tweets originating from a tract revealed a link between emotions and sociability of twitter users .",
    "our findings are broadly consistent with results of previous studies carried out in an offline setting , and also give new insights into the structure of online social interactions .",
    "we find that at an aggregate level , areas with better educated , somewhat younger and higher - earning population are associated with weaker social ties and greater spatial diversity ( or inter - tract mobility ) . in addition , twitter users express happier , more positive emotions from these areas .",
    "conversely , areas that have more hispanic residents are associated with stronger social ties and lower spatial diversity",
    ". people also express less positive , sadder emotions in these areas .",
    "since weak ties are believed to play an important role in delivering strategic , novel information , our work identifies a social inequity , wherein the already privileged ones ( more affluent , better educated , happier ) are in network positions that potentially allow them greater access to novel information .",
    "some important considerations limit the interpretation of our findings .",
    "first , our methodology for identifying social interactions may not give a complete view of the social network of twitter users .",
    "our observations were limited to social interactions initiated by users who geo - reference their tweets .",
    "this may not be representative of all twitter users posting messages from a given tract , if systematic biases exist in what type of people elect to geo - reference their tweets . for demographic analysis",
    ", we did not resolve the home location of twitter users .",
    "instead , we assumed that characteristics of an area , i.e. , of residents of a tract , influence the tweets posted from that tract .",
    "other subtle selection biases could have affected our data and the conclusions we drew  @xcite .",
    "it is conceivable that twitter users residing in more affluent areas are less likely to use the geo - referencing feature , making our sample of twitter users different from the population of la county residents . recognizing this limitation",
    ", we did not make any claims about the behavior of la residents ; rather , we focused on the associations between emotions and characteristics of a place and the behavior of twitter users , with an important caveat that those who turn on geo - referencing may differ from the general population of twitter users .    for the analysis of emotions",
    ", we only considered english language tweets , although a significant fraction of tweets were in spanish .",
    "this may bias the average affect of tracts , especially for low - valence tracts , which have a larger number of hispanic residents . in the future",
    ", we plan to address this question by conducting sentiment analysis of spanish language tweets .",
    "ma was supported by the usc viterbi - india internship program .",
    "lg acknowledge support by the national counsel of technological and scientific development  cnpq , brazil ( 201224/20143 ) , and usc - isi visiting researcher fellowship .",
    "this work was also partially supported by darpa , under contract w911nf-12 - 1 - 0034 . this support is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "cramer , h. ; rost , m. ; and holmquist , l.  e. 2011 .",
    "performing a check - in : emerging practices , norms and conflicts in location - sharing using foursquare . in _ proc .",
    "13th international conference on human computer interaction with mobile devices and services_.                  garcia , d. ; mendez , f. ; serdlt , u. ; and schweitzer , f. 2012 . political polarization and popularity in online participatory media : an integrated approach . in _ proc .",
    "first edition workshop on politics , elections and data_.                                mitchell , l. ; frank , m.  r. ; harris , k.  d. ; dodds , p.  s. ; and danforth , c.  m. 2013 .",
    "the geography of happiness : connecting twitter sentiment and expression , demographics , and objective characteristics of place . 8(5):e64417 .",
    "thelwall , m. ; buckley , k. ; paltoglou , g. ; skowron , m. ; garcia , d. ; gobron , s. ; ahn , j. ; kappas , a. ; kster , d. ; and holyst , j.  a. 2013 .",
    "damping sentiment analysis in online communication : discussions , monologs and dialogs . in _",
    "computational linguistics and intelligent text processing_. springer ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the social connections people form online affect the quality of information they receive and their online experience . </S>",
    "<S> although a host of socioeconomic and cognitive factors were implicated in the formation of offline social ties , few of them have been empirically validated , particularly in an online setting . in this study </S>",
    "<S> , we analyze a large corpus of geo - referenced messages , or tweets , posted by social media users from a major us metropolitan area . </S>",
    "<S> we linked these tweets to us census data through their locations . </S>",
    "<S> this allowed us to measure emotions expressed in the tweets posted from an area , the structure of social connections , and also use that area s socioeconomic characteristics in analysis . </S>",
    "<S> we find that at an aggregate level , places where social media users engage more deeply with less diverse social contacts are those where they express more negative emotions , like sadness and anger . </S>",
    "<S> demographics also has an impact : these places have residents with lower household income and education levels . </S>",
    "<S> conversely , places where people engage less frequently but with diverse contacts have happier , more positive messages posted from them and also have better educated , younger , more affluent residents . </S>",
    "<S> results suggest that cognitive factors and offline characteristics affect the quality of online interactions . </S>",
    "<S> our work highlights the value of linking social media data to traditional data sources , such as us census , to drive novel analysis of online behavior . </S>"
  ]
}