{
  "article_text": [
    "the structure and dynamics of large - scale material flows on the solar surface and in the convection zone play fundamental roles in the working of solar dynamo and its cyclic variation @xcite . circulating currents in planes through the meridians inside a rotating star",
    "were originally proposed by @xcite as a consequence of radiative equilibrium @xcite and as those responsible for the development of differential rotation .",
    "a rigorous theoretical treatment of the origin and maintenance of meridional circulation ( mc ) requires dynamical models that include energy and momentum transfer between convection , differential rotation and thermal stratification @xcite .",
    "mean - field hydrodynamical models of global axisymmetric flows and heat transport have been studied @xcite ; these models calculate interior differential rotation and mc .",
    "however , models with sufficient realism so as to reliably predict the deep structure of mc , with constraints from the helioseismically well determined solar interior rotation , are not yet established , although , detailed studies are in the offing ( see @xcite and references therein ) .    observational studies , however , have led to considerable details on the velocity amplitudes ( typically of 10  20 m s@xmath1 ) and variation of surface and near - surface part of mc @xcite , and on its contribution to the transport of magnetic flux from lower latitudes to the poles @xcite .",
    "this latter aspect of mc , with a modeled mass - conserving amplitude for a return flow typically near the base of the convection zone , has been a key dynamical component in the flux transport dynamo models @xcite .",
    "precisely for the above reasons , reliable observational ( helioseismic ) inferences of the deep structure of mc is of paramount importance for understanding the origin and drivers of solar variability on cyclic time - scales .",
    "meridional flows on the surface have been measured using several different techniques : directly from the doppler observations of the surface motions @xcite , correlation tracking of surface features such as small - scale magnetic elements @xcite , and local helioseismic measurements @xcite .",
    "almost all these different measurements give typical amplitudes of 10  20 m s@xmath1 for the surface poleward flow with peak values over the latitude range of 30  50@xmath2 . of the above",
    "only the helioseismic analyses have provided maps of flows in the sub - surface layers .",
    "while the ring diagram analyses cover sub - surface layers to a maximum depth of about 20 mm , the time - distance helioseismic technique @xcite can cover the flow in deeper layers .",
    "a first attempt application of time - distance helioseismology @xcite to measure mc using the soho / mdi doppler observations indicated that the poleward flows extended from the surface down to about 27 mm with a roughly constant magnitude .",
    "since then , while the ring diagram analyses have studied in detail the mc in the near - surface layers including its temporal ( solar - cycle scale ) variations @xcite , a recent major development in the application of time - distance helioseismology has been the identification and removal of a large systematic center - to - limb effect ( cf .",
    "section 2 ) in the measured travel times of acoustic waves @xcite .",
    "this has led to possibility of studying mc using time - distance helioseismology throughout the convection zone , especially improving the identification of flow signals in the deeper layers @xcite .",
    "a new feature in these recent results , obtained from sdo / hmi data , has been the inference of a relatively shallow return flow starting at about 0.9r@xmath3 and a possible second cell of mc below this depth @xcite . while the later study by @xcite , using data from the global oscillation network group ( gong ) observations , agrees on the shallow return flow , it has not reproduced the deeper second cell of mc .",
    "both the above studies have used about two years of data from sdo / hmi or gong doppler observations .",
    "given the high stakes that these results have on the dynamics of solar interior and the working of a large class of solar dynamo models , it is important to check the consistency and reproducibility of these results . both of the above studies have used mass - conservation constraints on the inverted flows for checking the physical validity of results . here , we improve on these results as follows : ( 1 ) we use 4 years of sdo / hmi to improve on the signal - to - noise of travel time measurements , and ( 2 ) implement an in - built mass conservation constraint in terms of stream functions in the inversion process itself , thereby consistently deriving both the horizontal ( latitudinal ) and radial flows .",
    "although , to first order , global mode frequencies are not sensitive to meridional flow , application of quasi degenerate perturbation theory @xcite shows that modes with close frequencies for neighbouring values of degree , @xmath4 can be coupled and their frequencies can be affected by meridional flows . @xcite",
    "have used the resulting perturbation on the eigenfunctions to study the mc in solar convection zone . using mdi data for 20042010",
    "they find evidence that mc penetrates to the base of the convection zone and the flow profile shows multiple cells in latitude and depth .",
    "this pattern is quite different from those inferred using time - distance technique and such a pattern is not seen in near surface flows which are reliably determined using the time distance and ring diagram techniques .",
    "the reason for this discrepancy is not clear , but it could be due to sensitivity of global mode perturbation to mc with multiple cells in latitude , as for multiple cells the probability of finding mode pairs ( which are coupled by mc ) with close frequencies increases .",
    "another technique to estimate mc is to use well determined differential rotation profile in the solar convection zone and solve a hydrodynamic model including the coriolis force and reynolds stresses @xcite . for a solar like density profile and differential rotation",
    ", the resulting meridional flow was found to be two - celled in latitude .",
    "such a profile is not seen at the surface , which implies that other effects need to be included in such an analysis .",
    "we describe the data and travel - time measurement procedure in section 2 , inversion technique in section 3 , present the results and validation tests on mc in section 4 and discussions and conclusions in section 5 .",
    "we have used the full - disk doppler observations made by the sdo / hmi over a four year period from 2010 may 1 through 2014 april 30 .",
    "the data consists of 45 s cadence doppler velocities at the solar surface .",
    "the first 2 years of data are the same as those used by @xcite , and we have added the next 2 years data to it . the data are tracked to account for the solar rotation and remapped using postel s projection to have a uniform latitude and longitude grid .",
    "this process is the same as that performed by @xcite using the jsoc helioseismology pipeline at stanford .",
    "the original extracts from the jsoc database for this study used a spatial sampling scale of 0.18 deg / pixel , and we further resample ( or smooth ) the data to a scale of 0.36 deg / pixel in order to reduce the volume of data handled and the computing time .",
    "this increase in pixel size ( or reduction in resolution ) does not make any difference to the travel time measurements over distances greater than 2 deg .",
    ", and further our main focus is on deeper layers which are probed by waves skipping at the surface over distances much larger than a degree .",
    "we use the technique of time - distance helioseismology @xcite in the so called deep - focus geometry , in much the same way as that described by @xcite except for implementing an improvement as discussed below .",
    "this method involves cross - correlating doppler signals from arcs , typically 30 degree wide , cut out from an annulus of diameter equaling the surface travel distance of the helioseismic waves , whose travel times that we want to measure .",
    "these arcs are placed perpendicular to the direction over which we want to measure the flows ( _ e.g. , _ for meridional flows the arcs are placed perpendicular to the meridians ) .",
    "ray - paths connecting diametrically opposite points in the arcs meet at the lower turning point of waves traveling a surface distance of @xmath5 that equals the diameter , and it is also the deep - focus location .",
    "this location is directly beneath the centre point of the arcs ( or annulus ) at the surface , hence the measurement is assigned to this surface point .",
    "measurements are repeated by moving the centre point to every pixel of the area that we want to cover on the solar surface . for each measurement",
    ", @xcite took the average of doppler signals over all pixels in one arc and cross - correlated it with that from the opposite arc .",
    "this averaging procedure , however , does not preserve the travel distance ( @xmath5 = the diameter ) as it involves contributions from all pairs of points ( or pixels ) between the arcs not just the diametrically opposite ones . in other words , a travel - time measurement by @xcite for",
    "a given @xmath5 involves contributions from waves of smaller distances down to @xmath6 cos(15@xmath7   are not large . otherwise , exact expression for the smallest distance , @xmath8 , between pairs of points from opposite arcs cut from a circle of diameter @xmath5",
    "is given by @xmath8 = 2 sin@xmath1[sin(@xmath5/2)cos(@xmath9/2 ) ] , where @xmath9 is the arc - length in degrees ] , and hence measurements are biased towards lower depths at each depth , and this we believe will lead to poorer depth resolution as @xmath5 increases , i.e. for deeper measurements .",
    "we correct for this in our measurements , but at the cost of much increased computing time , by splitting the arc into small segments ( typically 1@xmath2 to 3@xmath2 segments , depending on @xmath5 ) and cross - correlating the diametrically opposite segments [ such a deep - focus geometry was originally proposed by @xcite ; see also @xcite ] , and then averaging the resulting cross - correlations for a given measurement .",
    "we denote travel times estimated from such point - to - point cross - correlations with a string @xmath10 .",
    "we also calculate cross - correlations between arc - averaged signals , exactly replicating the procedure of @xcite , and the travel times from such arc - to - arc cross - correlations are denoted as @xmath11 ( refer to figure 2 ) .",
    "the rest of our measurement procedure is identical to @xcite in making one travel time measurement for each month ( of four years of data that we use here ) : ( 1 ) a cross - correlation computation at a given location involves full - disk data cubes tracked for one day , ( 2 ) measurement is restricted to @xmath12 ( in heliographic coordinates ) wide strips centered about the central - meridian ( for flows in the north - south direction ) or the equator ( for flows in the west - east direction ) [ the w - e travel time differences , after accounting for rotation signals , capture the centre - to - limb systematics in travel times that are to be subtracted from the n - s travel times @xcite , see below ] , ( 3 ) each day s cross - correlation functions are averaged over the same latitudes ( longitudes ) for n - s ( w - e ) , and then averaged again over one month intervals , and ( 4 ) each monthly averaged cross - correlation function is fitted by a gabor wavelet @xcite to estimate the acoustic wave travel times at each latitude ( for n  s ) or longitude ( for w ",
    "e ) in two opposite directions between the arcs .",
    "the difference between the travel times in the two opposite directions is related to the flow velocities in the region traversed by the waves @xcite .",
    "for example , for the n ",
    "s aligned arcs , the difference @xmath13 between the n  s and s ",
    "n travel times will be positive for a flow towards the north pole .",
    "we have employed 60 travel distances , @xmath5 , ranging between @xmath14 and @xmath15 in steps of @xmath16 , covering a depth range from near the surface down to about @xmath17 , again the same as that of @xcite .    as shown by @xcite",
    ", there is a large systematic increase in travel time differences against angular distance from the solar disk center mimicking a radial outflow from the centre towards the limb , and which increases as @xmath5 increases .",
    "this large center - to - limb systematics ( cls ) in travel times is still of unknown origin , although , the analyses of @xcite involving comparisons of travel times from different observables ( corresponding to different heights of formation in the solar atmosphere ) from the sdo / hmi as well as with that from another instrument ( soho / mdi ) pointed to possible physical causes in the solar atmosphere related to observation height differences .",
    "a study by @xcite showed that the near - surface granular convection could affect the wave - propagation in the observable layers leading to a similar effect as the cls in travel times .",
    "although , a consistent explanation of the origin of cls in helioseismic measurements from different observables is yet to be achieved , it is clear that the cls in travel times are not related to sub - surface flows . the empirical prescription to remove them in the travel times , as demonstrated by @xcite ,",
    "has led to improved measurements of meridional flows .",
    "within the ray approximation , the travel - time difference @xmath18 between the two opposite directions along a ray path @xmath19 is given by @xcite : @xmath20 where @xmath21 is the flow velocity and @xmath22 is the unit vector along the ray path . for ray paths confined to n  s plane",
    ", only the meridional flow will contribute to the travel - time .",
    "in general the contribution from the @xmath23 component would be much larger than that from the @xmath24 component of the meridional flow .",
    "this is because in general , the @xmath23 component is larger than @xmath24 and further contribution from @xmath24 tends to cancel out between the rising and falling branch of the ray path , while @xmath23 contribution in the two branches add to each other .",
    "because of small contribution from @xmath24 to @xmath18 , it is not possible to directly determine this component from the measured travel - times .",
    "however , the two components of the meridional flow are not independent , as they satisfy the continuity equation .",
    "thus it is possible to determine both components and to satisfy the continuity equation , if instead we determine the stream function , @xmath25 , which gives : @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the density in a solar model that is used to calculate the ray paths .",
    "thus we use eq .",
    "[ eq : inv ] to determine @xmath25 using the observed travel - times .",
    "because of large variation in density , @xmath25 also shows similar variation , as a result we actually use @xmath28 for inversions .",
    "we use the regularized least squares ( rls ) technique to solve the inverse problem to calculate @xmath29 in the convection zone . for this",
    "we expand @xmath30 in terms of cubic b - splines ( e.g. , @xcite ) in @xmath31 and @xmath9 : @xmath32 where @xmath33 are the cubic b - spline basis covering @xmath34 and @xmath35 are the cubic b - spline basis covering @xmath36 .",
    "we use 38 knots in @xmath31 which are uniformly spaced in acoustic depth and 31 knots in @xmath9 which are uniformly spaced in @xmath9 to define the b - spline basis functions .",
    "the coefficients of expansion @xmath37 are determined using rls with second derivative smoothing @xcite in both @xmath31 and @xmath9 by minimizing the function @xmath38 where @xmath39 are the residual in the fit to eq .",
    "[ eq : inv ] ( i.e. , the difference between the left hand side and right hand sides of the equation ) and @xmath40 are the corresponding errors in travel time differences . here",
    "the summation in the last two terms are over all knots in the b - spline representation and @xmath41 and @xmath42 are the two smoothing parameters .",
    "apart from smoothing we also apply the boundary condition @xmath43 at the upper boundary . in principle",
    ", the same condition should be applied at the lower boundary , if the flow is contained within the volume considered . since we do not know the lower boundary where the flow ends , we have not applied this boundary condition .",
    "we have verified that adding this boundary condition forces @xmath24 to vanish at the lower boundary ( @xmath44 ) and the resulting solution is modified in the neighbourhood of the boundary , but the solution over the bulk of the region is unaffected .",
    "these smoothing parameters are chosen as the minimum values that are needed to obtain a solution that is smooth .",
    "once these coefficients are known , @xmath24 and @xmath23 are easily computed over the entire interval . because of very small density scale height in the near surface region , we encountered some difficulty in calculating @xmath29 in this region .",
    "this problem is probably because our knot spacing in this region is much larger than the density scale height . to avoid this we use the value of @xmath29 at @xmath45 for larger values of @xmath31 also",
    "this may be justified as earlier studies do not show much variation in the meridional flow velocity above this layer .",
    "further , we find that removing this artifact only affects the solution for @xmath46 , which is not the region where we are primarily interested in this work .",
    "to calculate the errors in inverted flow velocities , we repeat the calculations 100 times with @xmath18 randomly perturbed with estimated errors in observed values . in addition to estimate the systematic error due to choice of smoothing parameters we also perturb these randomly . the standard deviation in these values would give an estimate of errors in inversion .",
    "travel - times of waves skipping at distances , @xmath5 , on the surface ranging between @xmath14 and @xmath15 correspond to lower turning points , @xmath47 , between 0.987r@xmath3 and 0.701r@xmath3 , thus covering the whole depth range of the convection zone .",
    "hence , we expect that the travel time differences @xmath48 that result after subtracting the cls ( estimated from @xmath49 after correcting for solar rotation ) for the chosen range of @xmath5 should have signatures of the mc in the whole of convection zone .",
    "we show @xmath48 for a few selected @xmath5 in figure 1 .",
    "these travel times are estimated from the @xmath10 measurement scheme described in section 2.2 .",
    "as described earlier , each measurement shown in figure 1 is an average of individual measurements that span the given small range of @xmath5 ( indicated in the panels ) with a spacing @xmath50 deg . and a time range of 47 months ( in the four year period 2010 may 1 through 2014 april 30 , we have the month of april 2012 missing in our data sets , and hence we have a total of 47 months ) with one measurement for each month .",
    "the error bars represent standard errors estimated from these individual measurements .",
    "the errors in @xmath48 and @xmath49 are of similar magnitude .",
    "we have also removed a small offset in @xmath48 resulting from the @xmath51 angle variation , i.e. the variation of the angle the solar rotation axis makes with respect to the instrument ( spacecraft ) , following @xcite and @xcite .",
    "variation of @xmath48 , averaged over three different latitude ranges , against @xmath5 ( and hence against lower turning points of p modes ) is shown in figure 2 .",
    "we have shown measurements from both our improved @xmath10 measurement scheme and the @xmath11 scheme of @xcite . in general",
    ", we find that travel times from both these schemes agree well for the few smaller @xmath5 , but there are significant differences for @xmath52 over low and mid - latitudes . for further analyses and inversions we use only the @xmath10 travel times .",
    "we believe that the variation seen against the three latitude ranges for @xmath53 , and the north - south asymmetry in them capture the signatures of deep meridional circulation .",
    "it is interesting to note the differences in travel times against the latitude ranges used in the three panels of figure 2 , especially for large @xmath5 : travel time averages over @xmath54 latitudes exhibit a roughly constant value of about 0.5@xmath55 over @xmath56 and relatively large variations for @xmath57 ( i.e. for @xmath58 , especially a sharp decline ( at @xmath59 ) and a rise again ( @xmath60 ) in the northern hemisphere , although , the errors are relatively large here .",
    "as presented in section 3 , we have implemented a ray - theoretic scheme of inverting the travel time differences @xmath48 to determine the stream function @xmath25 , which allows the determination of both the flow components , @xmath61 and @xmath62 , while satisfying the mass - conservation constraint . to illustrate the effect of choice of smoothing parameters we show the results obtained using two different values .",
    "the errors in the inverted results depend on the smoothing , with generally a higher smoothing leading to smaller errors",
    ". results of thus determined @xmath61 and @xmath62 covering the whole of the convection zone in depth and within @xmath63 latitudes are shown in figures 3 and 4 .",
    "the decreasing latitude extent for deeper layers are due to decreasing usable surface coverage of data for larger @xmath5 , @xmath64 we restrict measurements within @xmath65 latitudes to avoid errors due to projection effects and this means that usable coverage reduces as @xmath5 increases .",
    "variations over depth of inverted @xmath61 and @xmath62 , averaged over the same ranges of latitudes used in figure 2 for @xmath48 , are shown in right panels of figures 3 and 4 . the lower smoothing lead to a slight increase in the variations in velocity profiles .",
    "these results show that the global large - scale mc has a possible return flow at depths below about @xmath66 .",
    "this large single - cell mc is clear at higher latitudes .",
    "however , at lower latitudes ( less than about @xmath12 ) there appear to be some sign change in @xmath23 around @xmath67 , but the values are within error bars and these are also consistent with one deep cell of mc .",
    "such variations look a little more pronounced in the case of solution with lower smoothing , as a comparison of figures 3 and 4 would show .",
    "it can be seen that the results with two different smoothing shown in figures 3 and 4 are not very different , thus showing that the solution is not particularly sensitive to choice of smoothing parameters in this range .",
    "here we have only changed @xmath42 , but change in @xmath41 also has similar effect",
    ". nevertheless , below about @xmath67 the magnitude of velocity is comparable to errorbars and hence we can not rule out the possibility of multiple cells , especially at lower latitudes .",
    "the depth variation of radial component @xmath62 too ( see right panels of figures 3 and 4 ) , near the equatorial region , seem to indicate a tendency of sign change at about @xmath67 , but again such changes are not significant considering the errors there .",
    "zhao et al .",
    "( 2013 ) found return flow below about @xmath67 and a second cell lower down .",
    "considering the errorbars in inversion results , their results are roughly consistent with ours , though interpretation in terms of multiple cells is different .",
    "although , the most recent study by @xcite using two years of data from gong largely reproduces the shallow return flow below about @xmath67 , it does not show the second cell of mc deeper down and instead shows strikingly anti - correlated flows in deeper layers between gong and hmi results .",
    "it is important to note that the amplitudes of @xmath61 , in general , gradually decrease below about @xmath68 in all results .",
    "consistent inclusion of mass - conservation in our inversion process itself , is different from the results of both @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we believe this constitutes improved physical realism in our results than those of the above authors .",
    "we defer further discussion on the results to section 5 .",
    "further , the higher - latitude poleward flows seen down to depths of about 70 mm ( 10% of the solar radius from the surface ) seem to drive deep downward flows beyond @xmath69 latitudes ( refer to the right panel showing @xmath62 in figure 3 ) .",
    "this downward part of mc leads to the consistent signals of equator - ward return flow seen below about @xmath70 over the whole range of latitudes ( left panel of figure 4 ) .",
    "upwards flows at low latitudes and downward flows at higher latitudes , as captured in the inverted @xmath62 ( right panels of figure 3 and 4 ) , peak at a depth of about @xmath71 with amplitudes of about 1 m s@xmath1 .      in order to check if with the current level of errors in the travel - times",
    "it is possible to distinguish between the solution with single cell and that with a double cell , we generated artificial data with some assumed meridional flow profiles and added random errors to these which are consistent with those in observed data . using these artificial data we did the inversions using the same ( higher values ) smoothing parameters to check for reliability of inversion results .",
    "here we present results from two different meridional flow profiles , one a single cell extending till @xmath72 and another double cell profile with first cell ending at @xmath73 . in both cases",
    "the surface velocity is chosen to be close to solar value to make meaningful comparison .",
    "the results are shown in figures 5 .",
    "the results for single cell profile are shown in the top row of fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] which compares the flow velocity in the input profile with those obtained by inversion of travel times .",
    "it can be seen that the agreement is fairly good and in most region the difference between the true value and inverted value of @xmath23 is less than 1 m s@xmath1 .",
    "the sign change in @xmath23 is also seen in the inverted profiles , though at a slightly deeper layer .",
    "similarly , the bottom row of fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] shows the results for double cell profile of mc . in this case",
    "the agreement is even better than that for single cell profile .",
    "the inverted profiles clearly show two sign changes in @xmath23 with radius .",
    "thus it is clear that our inversions are able to distinguish between the single and double cell profiles even in presence of observational errors .",
    "it may be noted that in both these cases the velocity in lower layers ( @xmath74 ) is rather small and still inversions can detect the signal reliably .",
    "the radial component of velocity , @xmath24 is very small for double cell pattern and it is difficult to determine it reliably in the deep interior , where it is of order of 0.1 m s@xmath1 .",
    "these test results give some confidence in our results for the solar mc and it is likely that solar mc is a single cell circulation pattern similar to what is assumed in flux transport dynamo models .",
    "currently , there is an increased focus on helioseismic studies of the mc in the deep layers of the convection zone owing to several recent developments .",
    "firstly , recent years have seen intense developments in modeling the solar dynamo owing to several curious features of the last few solar cycles , including the extended minimum between cycles 23 and 24 and the overall gradual decline of the strengths of the past few cycles ( see @xcite and references therein ) . secondly , almost two solar cycles long continuous helioseismic data is now available from gong , mdi / soho and the new hmi / sdo , which can help in addressing solar interior variations related to the solar dynamo and the cycle .",
    "temporal variations of large - scale motions in the interior of the sun , _",
    "e.g. , _ the solar rotation and mc , can now be studied using these data .",
    "as far as the mc is concerned , measuring it over depth below about 10% of the solar radius from the surface is a difficult proposition as the expected signals in helioseismic observables are very small and are plagued by noise and systematics .",
    "as described in section 1 , local helioseismic methods , ring diagram and time - distance helioseismology , have successfully mapped the near - surface part of the mc .",
    "the identification and empirical correction ( or removal ) for the large systematics , cls , in helioseismic travel times by @xcite have now made studying the mc throughout the convection zone possible albeit with contentious inferences on the deep structure of mc @xcite .",
    "our work presented here provides an independent attempt to study mc in deep interior .",
    "we have made some improvements via adding additional physical constraints in the analysis procedures . as pointed out by @xcite ,",
    "the existing results on the deep mc @xcite are problematic in satisfying the mass - conservation constraints .",
    "the depth variation of inverted flow velocity amplitudes ( refer to figure 4 of @xcite ) run counter to what is expected from mass - conservation .",
    "we believe that our analysis which addresses mass - conservation in deriving both the horizontal and radial flow components , @xmath61 and @xmath62 , simultaneously from the inversion of measured travel times has added a significant improvement in the time - distance helioseismic probing of the deep mc . within the limits of errors in the data and in the inversion procedure , we find that the mc has possibly a large - scale return flow at depths below about @xmath70 .",
    "we do not see a shallow return flow at about @xmath67 consistently throughout the whole latitude range covered ( @xmath65 ) , although , there are indications of sign reversals at latitudes less than about 30@xmath2 , but not above our error limits , in both @xmath61 and @xmath62 at this depth .",
    "we find that the inverted @xmath62 exhibits broad upwellings extending over a depth range of @xmath75 ",
    "@xmath76 within about @xmath77 latitudes with a peak amplitude of about 1 m s@xmath1 . at latitudes in the range of @xmath12",
    " @xmath69 and beyond we find that the poleward flows with typical amplitudes of about 3  5 m s@xmath1 over the depth range of @xmath78  @xmath79 .",
    "this region is bounded by the deep downward flows beyond @xmath69 latitudes and forming a deep return flow at depths below @xmath70 . among the theoretical models or predictions in the literature , the mc profile calculated by @xcite from a mean - field hydrodynamical model appear to be close to our findings here .",
    "in particular , the sharp decline in @xmath23 observed over the depth range @xmath80 matches their model as well as the transition to equatorward flow seen beneath the depth of @xmath70 . numerical simulations of @xcite show multiple cells of mc at low latitudes .",
    "our inversion results also show some change in sign at low latitude , though the value is comparable to errorbars and is in a restricted range of latitude and depth .    to test if we could indeed detect multiple cells in mc we tried an exercise with artificial travel - time data generated using modeled single- and double - cell mc profiles .",
    "we find that it is indeed possible to detect multiple cells in @xmath23 , even though the velocity in deep layers is comparable to errorbars .",
    "these results tend to suggest that the solar mc probably consists of a single - cell pattern covering the entire convection zone , although , significant improvements in analysis are required to confirm this result .",
    "we thank junwei zhao ( stanford university ) for helping us with the data preparation at the stanford jsoc helioseismology pipeline .",
    "the hmi data used are courtesy of nasa / sdo and the hmi science team .",
    "data intensive computations performed in this work were carried out using the high - performance compute cluster of the indian institute of astrophysics , bangalore .",
    "antia , h. m. 2012 , numerical methods for scientists and engineers , hindustan book agency , new delhi baldner , c. s. , & schou , j. 2012 , , 760 , l1 basu , s. , & antia , h. m. 2010 , , 717 , 488 basu , s. , antia , h. m. , & tripathy , s. 1999 , , 512 , 458 charbonneau , p. 2010 , living reviews in solar physics , vol.7 , no.3 charbonneau , p. 2014 , ann .",
    "astrophys . , 52 , 251 choudhuri , a. r. , schssler , m. , & dikpati , m. 1995 ,  , 303 , l29 dikpati , m. 2014 , , 438 , 2380 dikpati , m. , & charbonneau , p. a. 1999 , , 518 , 508 dikpati , m. & choudhuri , a. r. 1995 , , 161 , 9 dikpati , m. , gilman , p. a. , de toma , g. , & ulrich , r. k. 2010 , georl , 37 , l14107 duvall , t. l. jr 1979 , , 63 , 3 duvall , t. l. , jr . , jefferies , s. m. , harvey , j. w. & pomerantz , m. a. 1993 , , 362 , 430 duvall , t. l. , jr .",
    "1995 , in asp conf .",
    "76 , gong 1994 .",
    "helio- and astro - seismology from the earth and space , ed .",
    "r. k. ulrich , e. j. rhodes , jr . , & w. dappen ( san francisco , ca : asp ) , 465 eddington , a.s .",
    "1925 , the observatory , 48 , 73 featherstone , nicholas a. , & miesch , mark s. 2015 , , 804 , 67 giles , p. m. , duvall , t. l. , jr . ,",
    "scherrer , p. h. , & bogart , r. s. 1997 , , 390 , 52 giles , p. m. 1999 , phd thesis , stanford university .",
    "gilman , p. a. & miller , j. 1986 , , 61 , 585 gonzlez hernndez , i. , kholikov , s. , hill , f. , howe , r. , & komm , r. 2008 , , 252 , 235 gough , d. o. , thompson , m. j. 1991 , in solar interior and atmosphere , university of arizona press , p.  519",
    "haber , d. a. , hindman , b. w. , toomre , j. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 192 , 335 haber , d. a. , hindman , b. w. , toomre , j. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 570 , 855 hanasoge , s.m . ,",
    "duvall , t. l. , jr . , & derosa , m.l .",
    "2010 , , 712 , l98 hathaway , d. h. 1996 , , 460 , 1027 hathaway , d. h. , & rightmire , l. 2010 , science , 327 , 1350 hathaway , d. h. 2012 , , 760 , 84 jackiewicz , j. , serebryanskiy , a. , & kholikov , s. 2015 , , 805 , 133 kitchatinov , l. l. , & olemskoy , s. v. 2011 , , 411 , 1059 kitchatinov , l. l. , & rdiger , g. 1999 ,  , 344 , 911 kosovichev , a.g .",
    "1996 , , 461 , l55 kosovichev , a.g . ,",
    "duvall , t.l . , jr . in score-96 : solar convection and oscillations and their relationship , ed .",
    "pijpers et al . ,",
    "1997 ( kluwer ) p.  241 komm , r.w . ,",
    "howard , r. f. & harvey , j.w .",
    "1993 , , 147 , 207 lavely , e. m. , ritzwoller , m. h. 1992 , phil .",
    "a , 339 , 431 miesch , m. s. , & toomre , j. 2009 , anrfm , 41 , 317 rajaguru , s.p . , hughes , s.j . , & thompson , m.j .",
    "2004 , , 220 , 381 rajaguru , s.p .",
    "2008 , arxiv:0802.2756 schad , a , timmer , j. , roth , m. 2013 , , 778 , l38 scherrer , p. h. , schou , j. , bush , r. i. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 275 , 207 schou , j. , & bogart , r.s .",
    "1998 , , 504 , l131 schou , j. , scherrer , p. h. , bush , r. i. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 275 , 229 ulrich , r. k. 2010 , , 725 , 658 von zeipel , h. 1924 , , 84 , 665 wang , y .- m . ,",
    "nash , a.g .",
    "& sheeley , n.r . ,",
    "1989 , science , 245 , 712 zhao , j. , & kosovichev , a. g. 2004 , , 603 , 776 zhao , j. , bogart , r.s . ,",
    "kosovichev , a.g .",
    ", duvall , t.l.,jr . , & hartlep , t. 2013 , , 774 , l29 zhao , j. , nagashima , k. , bogart , r. s. , kosovichev , a. g. , & duvall , t. l. , jr .",
    "2012 , , 749 , l5"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present and discuss results from time - distance helioseismic measurements of meridional circulation in the solar convection zone using 4 years of doppler velocity observations by the helioseismic and magnetic imager ( hmi ) onboard the solar dynamics observatory ( sdo ) . </S>",
    "<S> using an in - built mass conservation constraint in terms of the stream function we invert helioseismic travel times to infer meridional circulation in the solar convection zone . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the return flow that closes the meridional circulation is possibly beneath the depth of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the significance of this result in relation to other helioseismic inferences published recently and possible reasons for the differences in the results . </S>",
    "<S> our results show clearly the pitfalls involved in the measurements of material flows in the deep solar interior given the current limits on signal - to - noise and our limited understanding of systematics in the data . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss the implications of our results for the dynamics of solar interior and popular solar dynamo models . </S>"
  ]
}