{
  "article_text": [
    "under physiological conditions , proteins undergo everlasting motions , ranging from atomic thermal fluctuation , side - chain rotation , residue swiveling , to domain swirling .",
    "protein motion strongly correlates with protein functions , including molecular docking @xcite , drug binding @xcite , allosteric signaling @xcite , self assembly @xcite and enzyme catalysis @xcite .",
    "the range of protein motions in a cellular environment depends on the structure s local flexibility , an intrinsic property of a given protein structure .",
    "protein flexibility is reflected by the debye - waller factor ( b - factor ) , i.e. , the atomic mean - square displacement , obtained in structure determination by x - ray crystallography , nmr , or single - molecule force experiments @xcite .",
    "however , the b - factor can not absolutely quantify flexibility : it also depends the crystal environment , solvent type , data collection condition and structural refinement procedure @xcite .",
    "the flexibility of a biomolecule can be assessed by molecular dynamics ( md ) @xcite , normal mode analysis ( nma ) @xcite , graph theory @xcite and elastic network models ( enms ) @xcite , including gaussian network model ( gnm ) @xcite and anisotropic network model ( anm ) @xcite .",
    "nma can be regarded as time - independent molecular dynamics ( md ) @xcite and diagonalizes the md potential to obtain a set of eigenvalues and eigenvectors , where first few eigenvectors predict the collective and global motions , which are potentially relevant to biomolecular functionality .",
    "nma with only the elasticity potential , which is a leading term in the md potential , was introduced by tirion @xcite , and was extended to the network setting in anm @xcite . here",
    "network refers to the connectivity between particles regardless of their chemical bonds @xcite .",
    "yang et al .",
    "@xcite demonstrated that due to its network setting , gnm is about one order more efficient than most other flexibility approaches in computational complexity . in terms of b - factor prediction , gnm is typically more accurate than anm @xcite . therefore , gnm has been widely used in the study of biomolecular structure , dynamics and functions @xcite .",
    "it has demonstrated its utilities in stability analysis @xcite , docking simulation @xcite , viral capsids @xcite and domain motions of hemoglobin @xcite , f1 atpase @xcite , chaperonin groel @xcite and the ribosome @xcite .    in traditional elasticity network models ,",
    "i.e. , enm , gnm and anm , the connectivity is determined by a fixed cutoff distance .",
    "all atoms within the cutoff distance are treated equally with no consideration given to effects which scale with distance . in this manner ,",
    "the behavior of these methods typically depends on the cutoff distance used .",
    "many modified models are proposed to improve the hard cutoff distance practice by the incorporation of the distance information @xcite .",
    "hinsen has changed the spring constant to a distance - dependent gaussian function @xcite .",
    "riccardi et al .",
    "have used an inverse 6th power function of distance as the spring coefficient in their elastic network model @xcite .",
    "a parameter - free anm has been introduced by using the inverse 2nd power square distance for spring constant @xcite .",
    "a common feature of all the aforementioned approaches is that , they all depend on the mode decomposition of the potential matrix , which typically has the computational complexity of @xmath0 , where @xmath1 is the order the potential matrix . to bypass the matrix diagonalization , researchers explore the flexibility properties using the local packing density . many elegant methods and algorithms have been proposed , including the local density model ( ldm ) by halle @xcite , the local contact model ( lcm ) by zhang et al @xcite , weighted contact number ( wcn ) by @xcite , and others @xcite .",
    "recently , we have proposed a few mode - decomposition free methods for flexibility analysis , namely , molecular nonlinear dynamics @xcite , stochastic dynamics @xcite and flexibility - rigidity index ( fri ) @xcite . among them , the fri method is of @xmath2 in computational complexity and has been accelerated to @xmath3 by using the cell lists algorithm without loss of accuracy @xcite .",
    "the essential idea of the fri method is to evaluate the rigidity index or the compactness of the biomolecular ( network ) packing by the total correlation , a function of inter - atomic distance .",
    "then the flexibility index is defined as the inverse of the rigidity index .",
    "although the original motivation for fri comes from the design of continuum elasticity with atomic rigidity ( cewar ) , fri shares a similarity with the ldm , lcm and wcn . to be more specific ,",
    "all of these methods make use of local packing information and are free from matrix diagonalization .",
    "however , significant distinction exists between our fri methods and other local density based methods and it can be summarized as the following .",
    "firstly , other than the discrete flexibility index and discrete rigidity index , our fri methods delivers a continuous flexibility function and a continuous rigidity function @xcite .",
    "the continuous rigidity function , which can be regarded as the density distribution function ( density estimator ) of a biomolecule , plays many important roles beyond the scope of flexibility study @xcite .",
    "for instance , it can be used to generate biomolecular surface representations @xcite , which reduce to the gaussian surface if an appropriate kernel is used .",
    "in fact , rigidity function can be applied to decipher the atomic information from the experimental electron density data @xcite . secondly",
    ", protein multiscale collective motions can be captured by using multiple kernels in our fri method , called multiscale fri or multikernel fri ( mfri ) @xcite .",
    "this approach significantly improve the accuracy of fri b - factor predictions .",
    "thirdly , we proposed an anisotropic fri ( afri ) model for the evaluation of biomolecular global motions .",
    "different from traditional normal mode analysis or anm , our afri allows adaptive representations , ranging from a completely global description to a completely local representation @xcite .",
    "the objective of the present work is twofold .",
    "first , we propose a unified framework to construct generalized gnms ( ggnms ) .",
    "we reveal that the gnm kirchhoff matrix can be constructed from the ideal low - pass filter ( ilf ) , which is the limiting case of admissible fri correlation functions .",
    "we demonstrate that fri and ggnm are asymptotically equivalent when the cutoff value in the kirchhoff matrix or the scale value in the correlation function is sufficiently large .",
    "this finding paves the way for understanding the connection between the gnm and fri methods . to clarify this connection",
    ", we introduce a generalized kirchhoff matrix to provide a unified starting point for the ggnm and fri methods , which elucidates on the similarity and difference between ggnm and fri . based on this new understanding of the ggnm working principle",
    ", we propose infinitely many correlation function based ggnms .",
    "we show that ggnm outperforms the original gnm for the b - factor prediction of a set of 364 proteins .",
    "both ggnm and fri deliver almost identical results when the scale parameter is sufficiently large .",
    "our approach sheds light on the construction of efficient ggnms .",
    "additionally , we propose two new methods , multiscale gnm ( mgnm ) and multiscale anm ( manm ) , to account for the multiscale features of biomolecules .",
    "most biomolecules , particularly large macromolecules and protein complexes , have multiple characteristic length scales ranging from covalent bond , residue , secondary structure and domain dimensions , to protein sizes . even for small molecules , due to the influence of crystal structure ,",
    "multiscale effects play a significant role in atomic thermal fluctuations .",
    "consequently , gnm and anm , which are typically parametrized at a single cutoff distance , often do not work well in characterizing the flexibility of molecules involving multiscale behaviors .",
    "our essential idea is to generalize original gnm and anm into a multikernel setting so that each kernel can be parametrized at a given characteristic length .",
    "this generalization is achieved through the use of an fri assessment , which predicts the involvement of different scales , followed by an appropriate constructions of multikernel gnm or multikernel anm .",
    "this approach works because for a diagonally dominant matrix , the direct inverse of the diagonal element is essentially equivalent to the diagonal element of the inverse matrix .",
    "we demonstrate that the proposed mgnm and manm are able to successfully capture the multiscale properties of the protein and significantly improve the accuracy in protein flexibility prediction .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as the follows .",
    "section [ sec : method ] is devoted to methods and algorithms .",
    "we first propose a concise formulation of ggnms using fri correlation functions in section [ sec : gnm ] .",
    "we show that there are infinitely many new ggnms that reduce to the original gnm at appropriate limits of their parameters . to establish notation ,",
    "we further present a brief review of our mfri formalism in section [ sec : mfri ] .",
    "based on the connection between fri and gnm , we propose mgnm in section [ sec : mgnm ] .",
    "specifically , parameters learned from mfri are used to construct the multiscale kirchhoff matrix in mgnm .",
    "we discuss two types of realizations of mgnms . as an extension of our mgnm",
    ", the manm method is introduced in section [ sec : manm ] .",
    "we validate the proposed ggnm , mgnm and manm by extensive numerical experiments in section [ sec : result ] .",
    "we illustrate that the intrinsic multiscale properties of biomolecules are successfully captured in our mgnm and manm",
    ". finally , in section [ sec : application ] , we demonstrate the utility of mgnm and manm for protein flexibility analysis , protein domain separation and collective motion study . the present work offers a new strategy for the design and construction of accurate , efficient and robust methods for biomolecular flexibility analysis .",
    "this paper ends with a conclusion .",
    "to establish notation and facilitate new development , let us present a brief review of the gnm and fri methods .",
    "consider an @xmath1-particle coarse - grained representation of a biomolecule .",
    "we denote @xmath4 the coordinates of these particles and @xmath5 the euclidean space distance between @xmath6th and @xmath7th particles . in a nutshell",
    ", the gnm prediction of the @xmath6th b - factor of the biomolecule can be expressed as @xcite @xmath8 where @xmath9 is a fitting parameter that can be related to the thermal energy and @xmath10 is the @xmath6th diagonal element of the matrix inverse of the kirchhoff matrix , @xmath11 where @xmath12 is a cutoff distance .",
    "the gnm theory evaluates the matrix inverse by @xmath13_{ii}$ ] , where @xmath14 is the transpose and @xmath15 and @xmath16 are the @xmath17th eigenvalue and eigenvector of @xmath18 , respectively .",
    "the summation omits the first eignmode whose eigenvalue is zero .",
    "the fri prediction of the @xmath6th b - factor of the biomolecule can be given by @xcite @xmath19 where @xmath9 and @xmath20 are fitting parameters , @xmath21 is the @xmath6th flexibility index and @xmath22 is the @xmath6th rigidity index . here , @xmath23 is an atomic number depended weight function that can be set to @xmath24 for a c@xmath25 network , and @xmath26 is a real - valued monotonically decreasing correlation function satisfying the following admissibility conditions @xmath27 where @xmath28 is a scale parameter .",
    "delta sequences of the positive type @xcite are good choices .",
    "many radial basis functions are also admissible @xcite .",
    "commonly used fri correlation functions include the generalized exponential functions @xmath29 and generalized lorentz functions @xmath30 a major advantage of the fri method is that it does not resort to mode decomposition and its computational complexity can be reduced to @xmath3 by means of the cell lists algorithm used in our fast fri ( ffri ) @xcite .",
    "in contrast , the mode decomposition of nma and gnm has the computational complexity of @xmath0 .    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]",
    "gnm is an isotropic model which quantifies the atomic scalar fluctuations in molecule .",
    "in contrast , anm is designed to describe the anisotropic properties , such as collective motions of a molecule near the equilibrium .",
    "typically , the first six modes , corresponding to six zero ( or near zero ) eigenvalues , represent the trivial translational and rotational modes of a complex biomolecule .",
    "global modes that are unique to the biomolecular structure are described by eigenvectors associated with the nonzero ( next smallest ) eigenvalues .",
    "due to its simplicity , anm is widely used to study the dynamics of biomolecules .    in the present work ,",
    "we have designed our manm to maintain the aforementioned properties . to validate our manm for anisotropic mode analysis , we use two test proteins , i.e. , 1gru ( chain a ) and 1urp ( chain a ) .",
    "the protein 1gru is chaperonin groel , a benchmark test for anm @xcite .",
    "we employ our manm with two gaussian kernels ( @xmath31 ) with @xmath32   and @xmath33 .",
    "we compute eigenvectors associated with the first three nonzero eigenvalues .",
    "as illustrated in figure [ fig : manm_1gru ] , our manm results are in an excellent agreement with those of anm for chaperoin groel @xcite . to further validate our manm",
    ", we examine another test case , 1urp .",
    "it is a ribose - binding protein and its anisotropic motions have been studied in the literature @xcite .",
    "we utilize the same set of parameters described above .",
    "figure [ fig : manm_1urp ] demonstrates manm results .",
    "our results are in a close consistence with the traditional anm analysis @xcite .",
    "gaussian network model ( gnm ) and anisotropic network model ( anm ) are popular methods for macromolecular flexibility analysis .",
    "alternative methods , flexibility - rigidity index ( fri ) @xcite and anisotropic flexibility - rigidity index ( afri ) @xcite , have been introduced to achieve better accuracy and more adaptivity in our recent work .",
    "most recently , we have further proposed multiscale flexibility - rigidity index ( mfri ) @xcite to capture the multiscale behavior in macromolecules .",
    "our mfri utilizes multiple kernels which are parametrized at different scales to describe macromolecular multiscale connectivity .",
    "we have shown that mfri is about 20% more accurate than gnm in the b - factor prediction of a set of 364 protein @xcite .",
    "motivated by these achievements , we propose a few fri based generalizations of gnm and anm in this work .",
    "first , we construct a series of generalized gaussian network models ( ggnms ) .",
    "we show that the original kirchhoff matrix used in gnm can be constructed by using the ideal low - pass filter ( ilf ) , which is a special case of a family of admissible correlation kernels ( or functions ) used in fri . based on this connection",
    ", we propose a unified framework to construct generalized kirchhoff matrices for both gnm and fri .",
    "more specifically , the inverse of the generalized kirchhoff matrices leads to infinitely many ggnms and the direct inverse of the diagonal terms gives rise to fri .",
    "we reveal the identical behavior between ggnm and fri at a large cutoff distance or characteristic scale for b - factor protein predictions .",
    "additionally , we propose multiscale gaussian network models ( mgnms ) based on the relationship of gnm and fri .",
    "essentially , we develop a two - step procedure to construct mgnms . in the first step ,",
    "we utilize mfri to come up with an optimal combination of multiscale kernels . in our second",
    ", we try to implement the same combination of multiscale kernels in the generalized kirchhoff matrices for mgnms",
    ". however , this step is not unique because for a given kirchhoff matrix , gnm and fri are connected only through diagonal elements . two types schemes , type-1 mgnm and type-2 mgnm , are proposed in this work .",
    "moreover , we propose multiscale anisotropic network models ( manms ) based on the similarity between anm and gnm and the connection between gnm and fri . since anm is typically less accurate than gnm in b - factor prediction @xcite , its main utility is for collective motion analysis .",
    "we therefore have developed manms to maintain the physical connectivity of protein atoms in the kirchhoff matrix .",
    "we have carried out intensive numerical experiments to validate the proposed ggnm , mgnm and manm methods for b - factor predictions .",
    "the ggnm method is examined over a set of 364 proteins .",
    "it is found that the proposed ggnm is about 10% more accurate than gnm in b - factor prediction . for mgnm",
    ", we use only a set of 362 protein due to limited computer resource .",
    "we show that mgnm can achieve about 13% improvement over gnm .",
    "similarly , the proposed manm is about 11% more accurate than its counterpart , anm , in b - factor prediction over a set of 300 proteins .",
    "further , we consider three types of applications of the proposed mgnm and manm methods .",
    "one type of application is to analyze the flexibility of proteins that fail the original gnm method in various ways .",
    "we employ four proteins to demonstrate the advantage of the proposed mgnm in flexibility analysis .",
    "another application is the study of protein domain separations .",
    "the first nontrivial eigenmode of the multiscale kirchhoff matrix is used .",
    "we found from the analysis of two proteins that type-1 mgnm does a good job in domain analysis while type-2 mgnm does not work for this purpose .",
    "the other application concerns the protein collective motions .",
    "our manm is found to offer similar results as those of the original anm method . in the future",
    ", we will further apply our manm to study the anisotropic b - factor @xcite and conformational change @xcite .",
    "it is worth to pointing that our mgnm and manm methods are not unique .",
    "how to design optimal new mgnm and manm methods is still an open problem .",
    "essentially , we hope these new methods are efficient , accurate and robust . more specifically , high accuracy in b - factor prediction is a main criterion .",
    "additionally , having the ability to provide correct protein domain analysis is a desirable property as well . for manm ,",
    "the capability of offering correct motion analysis is a major requirement .",
    "the quality of both domain and motion analyses depends on how to design non - diagonal matrix elements so as to properly reflect the physical connectivity among particles .",
    "this work was supported in part by nsf grants iis-1302285 , and dms-1160352 , and nih grant r01gm-090208 .",
    "the authors thank jianyu chen and michael feig for useful discussions .",
    "h.  y. li , z.  x. cao , l.  l. zhao , and j.  h. wang .",
    "analysis of conformational motions and residue fluctuations for escherichia coli ribose - binding protein revealed with elastic network models .",
    ", 14(5):1055210569 , 2013 .",
    "f.  tama , m.  valle , j.  frank , and c.  k. brooks  iii .",
    "dynamic reorganization of the functionally active ribosome explored by normal mode analysis and cryo - electron microscopy .",
    ", 100(16):9319  9323 , 2003 .",
    "e.  eyal , c.  chennubhotla , l.  w. yang , and i.  bahar .",
    "anisotropic fluctuations of amino acids in protein structures : insights from x - ray crystallography and elastic network models . ,",
    "23(13 ) , i175-i184 , 2007 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> gaussian network model ( gnm ) and anisotropic network model ( anm ) are some of the most popular methods for the study of protein flexibility and related functions . in this work , </S>",
    "<S> we propose generalized gnm ( ggnm ) and anm methods and show that the gnm kirchhoff matrix can be built from the ideal low - pass filter , which is a special case of a wide class of correlation functions underpinning the linear scaling flexibility - rigidity index ( fri ) method . based on the mathematical structure of correlation functions , </S>",
    "<S> we propose a unified framework to construct generalized kirchhoff matrices whose matrix inverse leads to ggnms , whereas , the direct inverse of its diagonal elements gives rise to fri method . with this connection , </S>",
    "<S> we further introduce two multiscale elastic network models , namely , multiscale gnm ( mgnm ) and multiscale anm ( manm ) , which are able to incorporate different scales into the generalized kirchkoff matrices or generalized hessian matrices . </S>",
    "<S> we validate our new multiscale methods with extensive numerical experiments . </S>",
    "<S> we illustrate that ggnms outperform the original gnm method in the b - factor prediction of a set of 364 proteins . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that for a given correlation function , fri and ggnm methods provide essentially identical b - factor predictions when the scale value in the correlation function is sufficiently large . </S>",
    "<S> more importantly , we reveal intrinsic multiscale behavior in protein structures . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed mgnm and manm are able to capture this multiscale behavior and thus give rise to a significant improvement of more than 11% in b - factor predictions over the original gnm and anm methods . </S>",
    "<S> we further demonstrate benefit of our mgnm in the b - factor predictions on many proteins that fail the original gnm method . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the present mgnm can also be used to analyze protein domain separations . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we showcase the ability of our manm for the simulation of protein collective motions .    </S>",
    "<S> key words : multiscale elastic network model , multiscale gaussian network model , multiscale anisotropic network model , flexibility - rigidity index , debye - waller factor . </S>"
  ]
}