{
  "article_text": [
    "since most stars in the universe are binaries or members of gravitationally bounded systems , binary star evolution constitutes a primordial subject for understanding large stellar populations . the case of intermediate - mass binaries of the algol type",
    "is especially interesting since epochs of severe interaction must exist to account for the mass ratio distribution ( sarna 1993 , van rensbergen et al .",
    "2011 , de mink et al .",
    "2014 ) . in spite of the importance of the binary interaction stage , is not clear how efficient the processes of mass and angular momentum transfer are , remaining unknown how much matter is deposited into the interstellar medium and how much is accreted by one of the stellar components .    for the above reasons the identification and study of heavily interacting binaries is important to bring clues on the nature of mass loss mechanisms during epochs of binary interaction .",
    "two classes of interacting binaries ( ibs ) showing evidence of interaction are relevant in this sense : the double periodic variables ( dpvs ) and the wserpentis stars .",
    "they are both members of the more general class of algols , close binaries usually consisting of a cool evolved star and a main sequence early type star . early in its history",
    ", the secondary star would have been more massive , and evolved first until overfilling its roche lobe . after fast mass exchange",
    ", the lobe - filling star became the less massive of the pair ( e.g. eggleton 2006 ) .",
    "double periodic variables are semi - detached interacting binaries showing a long photometric periodicity lasting about 33 times the orbital period ( mennickent et al . 2003 ) ; a couple of them have been found in the galaxy ( mennickent et al .",
    "2012a ) and more than one hundred fifty in the magellanic clouds ( poleski et al . 2010 , pawlak et al . 2013 ) .",
    "an inherent feature of dpv is presence of relatively large and optically thick circumprimary disc .",
    "the long - cycle has been interpreted as evidence for cyclic mass loss ( mennickent et al .",
    "2008 ) , probably through a modulated disc - wind ( mennickent et al .",
    "surprisingly , in spite of evidence for mass loss , the orbital period remains remarkably constant in all well studied dpvs ( e.g. mennickent et al . 2012a , mennickent 2014 , barra et al .",
    "2013 , garrido et al .",
    "2013 ) .",
    "wserpentis stars are interacting binaries consisting of a hot star surrounded by an optically thick accretion disc ( plavec 1980a , b , 1982 , young & snyder 1982 ) .",
    "the wserpentids are characterized by strong ultraviolet emission lines of highly excited species like heii , cii , aliii , feiii , civ , siiv and nv seen at every orbital phase , that have been thought to be formed in a super corona produced by the process of mass transfer and accretion ( plavec , weiland & koch 1982 ) or by scattering in an induced stellar wind ( plavec 1989 ) .",
    "in addition , the light curve tends to be noisy and the orbital periods variable .",
    "the wserpentids have been interpreted as semi - detached close binaries with circumprimary discs fed by roche - lobe overflow at mass transfer rates larger than normal algols ( plavec 1989 ) .",
    "the orbital eccentricity in dpvs and wserpentis stars is always compatible with zero ; in very few cases is very small and consistent with the effects produced by the mass streams in the radial velocities of close binaries ( lucy 2005 ) .",
    "this condition is in agreement with the theoretical prediction of a rapid orbit circularization for these systems by dynamical tides ( zahn 1975 , 1977 ) .",
    "the main goal of this paper is to compare , for the first time , dpvs with wserpentids from the observational point of view , trying to clarify if they are two separated classes of interacting binaries , and if they are related from an evolutionary perspective .",
    "we also present a new census of galactic dpvs , presenting 7 new systems , increasing significantly the number of these objects in our galaxy .",
    "the paper is organized as follow : in section 2 we present our methodology for searching for new dpvs and give sources for infrared photometric data . in section 3 the results of this search are presented , along with a compilation and analysis of dpv and wserpentids data found in the literature . in this section",
    "we also analyze 2mass and wise colors for the sample stars . in section 4 a discussion of our results",
    "is presented .",
    "we finish with our conclusions in section 5 .",
    "the new dpvs presented in this study were found by one of us ( s.o . ) as part of a multi - survey variable star search using three publicly available databases : the all sky automated survey - asas-3 ( pojmanski 2002 ) , the northern sky variability survey - nsvs ( wozniak et al . 2004 ) and the hipparcos catalogue ( perryman et al . 1997 ) .",
    "more than 3000 new variable stars were found and hundreds of new / revised classifications of known variables were made . here",
    "we report the discovery of 7 new galactic dpvs , clearly distinguished by their blueish colors , two periods and characteristic period ratio .",
    "the photometric periods of new dpvs were determined with the iraf pdm task ( stellingwerf 1978 ) .",
    "then we disentangled the two main photometric frequencies by using a code specially designed for this purpose ( e.g. mennickent et al .",
    "the code adjusts the orbital signal with a fourier series consisting of the fundamental frequency plus its harmonics .",
    "then it removes this signal from the original time series letting the long periodicity present in a residual light curve .",
    "the program fits this remaining signal with another fourier series consisting on fundamental frequency and harmonics and remove it . as result",
    "we obtain the cleaned light curve with no additional frequencies and two light curves for the isolated orbital and long periods .",
    "bystrov n. f. , polojentsev d. d. , potter h. i. , yagudin l. i. , zallez r. f. , zelaya j. a. , 1994 , the final focat - s star catalogue for southern hemisphere .",
    "bulletin dinformation du centre de donnees stellaires , vol .",
    "44 , p. 3",
    "jaschek c. , conde h. , de sierra a.c .",
    ", 1964 , catalogue of stellar spectra classified in the morgan - keenan system , serie astronomica , no 2 .",
    ", la plata : observatorio astronomico de la universidad de la plata                                          nesterov v. v. , kuzmin a. v. , ashimbaeva n. t. , volchkov a. a. , roeser s. , bastian u. , 1995 , a&as , 110 , 367 , the henry draper extension charts : a catalogue of accurate positions , proper motions , magnitudes and spectral types of 86933 stars"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> wserpentids and double periodic variables ( dpvs ) are candidates for close interacting binaries in a non - conservative evolutionary stage ; while wserpentids are defined by high - excitation ultraviolet emission lines present during most orbital phases , and by usually showing variable orbital periods , dpvs are characterized by a long photometric cycle lasting roughly 33 times the ( practically constant ) orbital period . </S>",
    "<S> we report the discovery of 7 new galactic dpvs , increasing the number of known dpvs in our galaxy by 50% . </S>",
    "<S> we find that dpvs are tangential - impact systems , i.e. their primaries have radii barely larger than the critical lubow - shu radius . </S>",
    "<S> these systems are expected to show transient discs , but we find that they host stable discs with radii smaller than the tidal radius . among tangential - impact systems including </S>",
    "<S> dpvs and semi - detached algols , only dpvs have primaries with masses between 7 and 10 @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> we find that dpvs are in a case - b mass transfer stage with donor masses between 1 and 2 m@xmath1 and with primaries resembling be stars . </S>",
    "<S> wserpentids are impact and non - impact systems , their discs extend until the last non - intersecting orbit and show a larger range of stellar mass and mass ratio than dpvs . </S>",
    "<S> infrared photometry reveals significant color excesses in many dpvs and wserpentids , usually larger for the latter ones , suggesting variable amounts of circumstellar matter .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : early - type , stars : evolution , stars : mass - loss , stars : emission - line , stars : variables - others </S>"
  ]
}