{
  "article_text": [
    "current networks aim to support high data rates to end users by increasing the spectral efficiency in bits - per - hertz of the network , at the expense of the energy efficiency of the network .",
    "indeed , an important part of the energy consumption of mobile networks is proportional to the radiated energy , which relies on the frequency bandwidth and the transmission power .",
    "any energy efficient transmission scheme should exploits the whole system bandwidth by allocating the entire available spectrum to each base station .",
    "such an approach , however , leads to significant interference increase and performance degradation for mobiles located at the cell edges .",
    "the key challenge is to balance interference avoidance and spectrum use to reach an optimal spectral efficiency  energy efficiency ( ee - se ) trade - off @xcite .",
    "this challenge has been addressed in the past , for instance using frequency / code planning in 2g/3 g networks or with cooperative multiple point antennas in 4 g @xcite .",
    "the aim of our work is to demonstrate the concept of a recently driven interference management scheme that not only leverage the current technology but also achieves greater overall energy efficiency @xcite .",
    "it exploits interference alignment ( ia ) concept for downlink to reduce inter - cell interference without complex coordination .",
    "the theoretical achievements of ia has been largely discussed e.g. @xcite .",
    "it has been concluded that one of the key results is that , under specific conditions , dense and high - power wireless networks are not fundamentally interference limited . as an example , under idealized assumptions , using ia in the setting of an interference channel formed by @xmath0 transmitter - receiver pairs interfering between one another allows an achievable data rate per pair equal to half of his interference - free channel , regardless of @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "strong efforts in the research community have been done to extend ia far beyond the initial @xmath0 -user interference channel .",
    "the recent review @xcite highlights the different technical challenges to be solved before envisioning a practical application among which implementing accurate feedback loops is probably the most important challenge .",
    "but even beyond the practical implementation of ia solutions in a network , the actual model of the network tends to be complex and involve a large number of hypothesis .",
    "these assumptions , or lack thereof , are needed and will play a significant role in the design of ia schemes .",
    "these ia schemes are in return heavily tuned to the specific hypotheses made and may not adapt to all cellular configurations , thereby justifying the need to develop an experimental evaluation of these techniques .",
    "a downlink cellular network is basically an interfering broadcast channel , where base stations ( bs ) transmit towards a number of users and interfere with each other .",
    "however , several tries to extend this approach in the context of cellular networks revealed some limiting improvement @xcite for the following reasons : i ) the direct extension of the ic model to cellular networks relies on defining first the association of each mobile to a given subset of resources .",
    "thus in each cell , the bs decides without coordination which set of resources is given to each mobile . to have a significant gain ,",
    "ia should be performed for users mutually suffering from interference .",
    "ii ) many works rely on a clustering approach @xcite , however , users located at cluster edges can not benefit from any improvement and are still subject to strong interference .",
    "iii ) signaling requirements reduce the theoretical gain of the system .    in @xcite , suh",
    "_ proposed an ia scheme for downlink channels by considering a scenario where each bs uses a reduced space for its own transmission , preserving a given free subspace for other cells .",
    "their solution extended in @xcite , allows users in a cell to cancel their dominant interferer as well as the intra - cell interference for users in the same sub - band , achieving one degree of freedom ( dof ) , without any communication between the bss . in other words ,",
    "each bs create an interference - free hole in which the other bss can serve their mobile users .",
    "each mobile measures and feeds back its own free subspace to its main bs . after receiving this information from all associated ue the bs jointly computes a set of precoders and schedules the ue to maximize the overall capacity , under some fairness / priority constraints .",
    "basically , a certain cooperation between cells is not explicit but exists through the feedback channels .",
    "the performance of such scheme relies on many parameters such as synchronization , feedback capabilities , precoders choice ... in this paper , we review the aforementioned non - classic ia scheme for downlink proposed in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "then , we show the implementation scenario in the experimentation shielded room cortexlab located in lyon , france , and we discuss some experimental issues . finally , we present the results of our demo and highlight the capacity gain of the implemented ia scheme over the classical ofdma scheme .",
    "notations : boldface upper case letters and boldface lower case letters denote matrices and vectors , respectively . the superscripts @xmath1 and @xmath2 stand for the transpose and transpose conjugate matrices , respectively .",
    "the following notation @xmath3 denotes the last @xmath4 vectors of an @xmath5-dimension space matrix @xmath6 defined as the left - singular matrix of a matrix @xmath7 , where svd(@xmath7 ) stands for the singular value decomposition ( svd ) .",
    "for our demo , we consider a cellular network with two bs and three user equipment ( ue ) , all equipped with a single antenna . the transmission scheme is based on ofdm with @xmath0 available sub - carriers .",
    "the transmit signal of the interfering bs is written as @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the data vector of length @xmath10 before hadamard precoding . in the implemented scheme ,",
    "each bs preserves @xmath11 dof for the other bss , thereby creating a hole free of interference at all cell - edges .",
    "the maximum number of transmitted streams is then @xmath12 .",
    "@xmath13 is a unitary trunk hadamard matrix of dimension @xmath14 that allows the use of the @xmath15 reduced space .",
    "we denote @xmath16 the fading channel matrix between the @xmath17 bs and the @xmath18 ue .",
    "let the reduced channel denotes @xmath19 , where @xmath20 and @xmath21 refer to the desired and interfering channel , respectively .",
    "the received signal at the @xmath22 ue is written as @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the noise vector .",
    "in addition to the hadamard trunking matrix , each original stream @xmath25 with @xmath26 is carried over the precoding vector @xmath27 ; the @xmath28 vector of a precoding matrix @xmath29 .",
    "the precoded stream vector at the @xmath17 bs is defined as @xmath30 and includes all streams associated to the @xmath17 bs . in order to accomplish a reliable interference management scheme , we review the non - classic ia technique extended in @xcite that calculates an optimal precoding set lying over the free - interference subspace and then selects the best subset that maximizes the total capacity of the downlink interference channel .",
    "the fading channels connecting the ues to their main bs and to the strongest interferer bs are firstly estimated at the all ues .",
    "this is possible through training sequences provided by both bss .",
    "then , each ue determines the interference null space thanks to the svd of the reduced channel @xmath31 .",
    "it is calculated as @xmath32 by applying a linear projection on the interference null space @xmath33 , the received signal is rewritten as @xmath34 in other words , the signal @xmath35 is being received in the inter - cell interference - free hole created by the strongest interferer .",
    "this means that the best for a ue is to have its desired streams aligned with the equivalent channel @xmath36 which guarantees a maximum received power of the desired signal .",
    "it is worth noting that in practice , the ues at cell edges can be interfered from more than one bs .",
    "dealing with such as a case requires either considering the interference as noise or estimating all interfering channels while the transmission is focused in the joint hole created by the union of the interference . for the sake of simplicity , we only assume one interfering bs for our demo .    each ue calculates its optimal @xmath11 precoding vectors and feeds them back to the main bs , which in turn collects @xmath37 precoding vector where @xmath38 is the total number of user fixed to three in our demo .",
    "however , the maximum number of streams allowed for a bs is @xmath15 . when @xmath39 , all vectors are used for transmission .",
    "otherwise , i.e. @xmath40 , an @xmath15 precoding vectors must be selected among the total set .",
    "that is , we have to run a scheduling to select which users and streams are best to serve . among the different existing criteria , we choose to maximize the total channel capacity given by @xmath41 where the term @xmath42 stands for the signal to interference and noise ratio at the @xmath43 selected stream after scheduling .",
    "when a scheduling is required , the precoding vectors set can be presented as an underdetermined matrix of dimension @xmath44 .",
    "the problem is seen as selecting the best determined matrix that maximizes the total rate .",
    "the optimal solution is through exhaustive search . for this to happen",
    ", we need to build all possible subset combination and to calculate the achievable rate of each candidate .",
    "the data symbols are carried over the vectors yielding a maximum achievable rate .",
    "the precoding vector of the @xmath43 stream of the @xmath22 user is calculated as @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the @xmath43 row of the reduced interference - free channel .",
    "in other words , the precoding vector aims at maximizing the power of the desired part of the received signal .",
    "hence , each user relies on the fact that its interference - free directions are independent from the interference - free directions of the other ues associated to the same bs , which means that channel diversity between ues has a major impact for achieving a desired performance of the described interference management scheme .",
    "that is , when the channels are almost orthogonal there is no intra - cell interference and the achievable rate is maximum .",
    "in contrast , when the channels between ues are completely correlated , the interference reaches its maximum and the rate is highly degraded .    going back to the scheduling problem , it can be expressed as @xmath47 where @xmath48 and @xmath49 .",
    "such a problem is known as a discrete optimization that requires in most cases an exhaustive search to find out the global optimum .",
    "however , this becomes so costly and expensive with the dimension increases .",
    "other sub - optimal algorithms based on heuristic methods or local minima search can be applied with no guarantee of any improved performance . since we do not assume high dimensions systems and we apply non - classic ia technique over only four sub - carriers , the optimal exhaustive search is feasible with low computational cost .",
    "once the best subset is selected , we proceed to calculate the precoding matrix of all streams that cancels the intra - cell interference .",
    "it is given by @xmath50 where the selected precoding vectors are the columns of the matrix @xmath51 and @xmath52 is the identity matrix .",
    "the achievable rate can be then written as @xmath53 where @xmath54 and @xmath55 is the @xmath56 column of @xmath57 .",
    "it can be noticed that @xmath58 and is equal to one when the selected vectors are all orthogonal .",
    "the performance of the addressed non - classic ia approach has been evaluated through exhaustive simulations in different networks and load scenarios .",
    "it has been found that in comparison to a reference scenario without ia , the cell capacity can on average be increased by a factor @xmath59 and that the spectral efficiency of cell edge users can be increased up to a factor @xmath60 @xcite .",
    "our work herein gives a proof of concept and focuses on the main challenges related to the non - classic ia approach for downlink , namely the knowledge of the interference footprint and the scheduling algorithms to make use of the interference information to maximize the spectral efficiency .",
    "we implement an experimental scenario with two transmitting bss , i.e. the main bs and an interfering one and three ues associated to the main bs .",
    "we show that the ia is feasible , in the sense that ues are able to measure a channel , feed it back to the bs which in turn applies a scheduling to select the best set and calculates the theoretical spectral efficiency ( se ) gain over a classical dumb ofdma allocation .",
    "a wireless network is emulated on cortexlab ( http://www.cortexlab.fr ) @xcite , a controlled hardware facility located in lyon , france with remotely programmable radios and multi - node processing capabilities . during the live demo , a control laptop",
    "is remotely connected to the facility , deploying software on the radios and launching an ia scenario and collecting real - time performance feedback .",
    "the efficiency gain of ia is then shown for various experimental conditions that can be tuned from the control laptop .",
    "represented by the national instruments usrp 2932 , the general - purpose software defined radio ( sdr ) nodes use the gnu radio toolkit for rapid prototyping of transmission techniques mostly reliant on the general purpose processor ( gpp ) of the host pc .",
    "the usrp 2932 is a high end radio platform , counting with a 400 mhz  4.4 ghz rf board , data rates of up to 40 mhz ( with reduced dynamic range , nominal band of 20 mhz ) , a precise ocxo clock source and a @xmath61 gigabit ethernet ( gige ) connection to the host pc .",
    "the host pc is based on a linux environment and allow users to test phy and mac layer techniques .",
    "it is preferable to first use both linux and gnu radio for the development and test at the user s own computer and then to bring the experiment over to cortexlab .      among the forty available sdr nodes in cortexlab ,",
    "five are selected where two serve as main and interfering bs and the remainders serve as mobile ues .",
    "all transmitters ( tx ) and receivers ( rx ) are equipped with single antenna .",
    "therefore , the ia scheme lies on the frequency dimensions provided by the ofdm transmission scheme implemented at all txs and rxs . in the first transmission phase ,",
    "the ues need to estimate the main and interfering channels .",
    "this can be done by assigning two orthogonal time slots to the bss through which they transmit the training sequences .",
    "however , the synchronization of the two bs nodes remains a challenge since they are distantly separated .",
    "herein , we propose an over - air synchronization as follows .",
    "holding a unique i d , the interfering bs starts the transmission to let the user nodes measure the interference channel coefficients while the main bs tries to decode the i d of the transmitter .",
    "if the decoded i d corresponds to the interferer , the main bs node transmit ofdm symbols ( one or more ) for channel estimation . by collecting both estimated channels ,",
    "each receiver is able to calculate the @xmath4 optimal precoding vectors in the free dimensions such that the desired signal power is maximized . in order to avoid imperfections in the ia scheme , we use a wire connection provided in the experimentation room between all nodes to perform a perfect feedback to the tx ( main bs ) .",
    "this latter gathers the precoding vectors from all ues and run the scheduling algorithm to seek the best @xmath62 precoding vectors that minimizes the intra - cell interference , and hence maximizes the achievable data rate of the cell . the maximized rate",
    "is then compared to the classical ofdma and the theoretical gain is calculated .",
    "the ofdma scheduler select at each users the @xmath63 streams that maximizes the signal - to - interference and noise ratio ( sinr ) given by @xmath64 where @xmath65 stands for the sinr , @xmath66 is the channel coefficient between the main bs and the @xmath67 user at the @xmath43 stream , @xmath68 is the interference channel coefficient at the @xmath43 stream and @xmath69 is the noise variance .",
    "the classical ofdma achievable rate is then defined as @xmath70      in the live demo , we show a spectral efficiency gain that can largely vary between @xmath61 and @xmath71 .",
    "this variation is due to the influence of many factors summarized by the following parameters : the noise power , the interference power , the channel diversity , the distance between the different nodes , the tx gain ... for instance , in perfect conditions the ratio gain @xmath72 given in ( [ eq9 ] ) and ( [ eq11 ] ) , tends to its maximum when the inter - cell interference power is of the same order or higher than the desired signal power ; i.e. sinr is low , this is the case of cell edge mobile users .",
    "however , as long as the users get closer to the main bs , this ratio decreases .",
    "another critical parameter that highly impacts the performance gain is the channel diversity and correlation , the less the channel is correlated the higher the efficiency gain is .",
    "this is because the applied ia scheme requires a completely decorrelated channel coefficients for the scheduling , otherwise the intra - cell interference dominates the desired signal . in order to get a better decorrelation in the shielded room ,",
    "we emulate a virtual channel on all txs and rxs , however , this still induces some correlation at the different mobile ues .",
    "a better way is to use a multi - antennas node at the tx to generate multi - paths through the different antennas .",
    "each path is randomly attenuated , phase shifted and delayed .",
    "such a multi - paths generation creates a perfect decorrelation since the paths generated by the different nodes are totally independent .",
    "an illustration of our demo is given in figure [ fig2 ] . in our demo , we assume two bss and @xmath73 users . the ia is applied over four sub - carriers which gives a total dimension of @xmath60 , one is free of interference and three other used by each bs .",
    "we focus on the average theoretical capacity gain offered by the non - classical ia over the classical ofdma scheme with respect to the number of transmission as shown in figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "we also plot the channel spectrum at the all sub - carriers and for the different transmission to show how decorrelated the channel coefficients are .",
    "for each channel realization , we display the snr of the interference - free streams and the sinr of all streams when the classical ofdma is applied to see their impact over the efficiency gain .",
    "in this demo , we have implemented the first phase of a non - classic ia approach for interference management .",
    "it consists in measuring the channel coefficients , calculating the interference - free sub - spaces , feeding them back to the main bs , and applying a scheduling to decide which stream to transmit .",
    "we have shown in experiment that a significant theoretical capacity gain over the classical ofdma scheme can be achieved depending on the channel conditions and the interference dominance .",
    "the remaining work is to start the ia transmission and to apply linear decoding criteria at the receiver such as zero - forcing ( zf ) or minimum mean squared error ( mmse ) to recover the original data .",
    "however , the challenge here is to synchronize the transmission between both txs for the ia transmission and to compare the theoretical gain to the practical one .",
    "it is also worth trying to face more practical issues related to de - synchronization , which means to study the impact of the delay and phase shift between the different txs on the ia scheme .",
    "m. a. maddah - ali , a. s. motahari , and a. k. khandani , `` communication over mimo x channels : interference alignment , decomposition , and performance analysis '' , _ information theory , ieee transactions on _ , 2008 , vol .",
    "54 , no 8 , 3457 - 3470 .",
    "a. gshasemi , a. s. motahari , and a. k. khandani , `` interference alignment for the k user mimo interference channel '' , _ in information theory proceedings ( isit ) , 2010 ieee international symposium on _ , pp .",
    "360 - 364 , ieee , june 2010 .        o. el ayach , s. w. peters , and r. w. heath jr , `` the feasibility of interference alignment over measured mimo - ofdm channels '' , _ vehicular technology , ieee transactions on _ , 2010 , vol .",
    "59 , no 9 , 4309 - 4321 .",
    "d. aziz , f. boccardi , and a. weber , `` system - level performance study of interference alignment in cellular systems with base - station coordination '' , _ in personal indoor and mobile radio communications ( pimrc ) , 2012 ieee 23rd international symposium on _ , pp .",
    "1155 - 1160 , ieee , september 2012 .",
    "r. tresch , m. guillaud , and e. riegler , `` on the achievability of interference alignment in the k - user constant mimo interference channel '' , _ in statistical signal processing , 2009 .",
    "ssp09 , ieee / sp 15th workshop on _ , pp .",
    "277 - 280 , ieee , august 2009 .",
    "l. s. cardoso , a. massouri , b. guillon , f. hutu , g. villemaud , t. risset , and j. m. gorce , `` cortexlab : a cognitive radio testbed for reproducible experiments '' , _ in proc .",
    "wireless@ virginia tech symposium",
    "_ , may 2014      a. massouri , l. cardoso , b. guillon , f. doru - hutu , g. villemaud , t. risset , and j .-",
    "gorce , `` cortexlab : an open fpga - based facility for testing sdr and cognitive radio networks in a reproducible environment , '' _ in ieee infocom _ , ieee , april 2014 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> our demo aims at proving the concept of a recent proposed interference management scheme that reduces the inter - cell interference in downlink without complex coordination , known as non -classic interference alignment ( ia ) scheme . </S>",
    "<S> we assume a case where one main base station ( bs ) needs to serve three users equipments ( ue ) while another bs is causing interference . </S>",
    "<S> the primary goal is to construct the alignment scheme ; i.e. each ue estimates the main and interfered channel coefficients , calculates the optimal interference free directions dropped by the interfering bs and feeds them back to the main bs which in turn applies a scheduling to select the best free inter - cell interference directions . </S>",
    "<S> once the scheme is build , we are able to measure the total capacity of the downlink interference channel . </S>",
    "<S> we run the scheme in cortexlab ; a controlled hardware facility located in lyon , france with remotely programmable radios and multi - node processing capabilities , and we illustrate the achievable capacity gain for different channel realizations . </S>"
  ]
}