{
  "article_text": [
    "logo detection and recognition has been extensively studied in computer vision and pattern recognition literature  @xcite . from a computer vision perspective , _ logo recognition _ , which can be viewed as a special case of image recognition , aims to recognize the logo name of an input image , and _ logo detection _ is often more challenging in that it not only needs to recognize the logo name but also need to find the locations of logo objects in the input image .",
    "logo detection and recognition found a wide range of applications in many domains , such as product brand recognition for intellectual property protection in e - commerce platforms , vehicle logo recognition for intelligent transportation  @xcite , product brand management on social media  @xcite , etc .",
    "logo objects typically consist of mixed text and graphic symbols .",
    "although it may be viewed as a special type of object detection , logo detection from real - world images ( e.g. , product images ) can be quite challenging since the same logo when appearing in different real scenarios can become very different due to the changes in sizes , rotations , lighting , occlusion , rigid and even non - rigid transformations .",
    "for example , a rigid logo object when appearing in a real clothing image often becomes non - rigid , making it difficult to be detected and recognized .",
    "although logo - related research has been explored for a long history of over two decades in literature  @xcite , most existing studies use small datasets and very few large datasets are publicly available .",
    "for example , among the existing publicly available logo databases  @xcite , one of the largest is  flickrlogos-32 \" , which only consists of 32 logo classes , 8240 images , and 5644 logo objects",
    ". clearly , the existing datasets are not sufficient for conducting large - scale logo related research , particularly when exploring emerging data - intensive deep learning techniques .    to this end",
    ", we propose  logo - net \"  a large - scale logo image database to facilitate the research of logo detection and product brand recognition .",
    "the current logo - net database consists of 160 logo classes , 100 brands , 73,414 images , and a total of 130,608 logo objects manually labeled with bounding boxes by human beings .",
    "constructing such a large - scale database is challenging , time - consuming , and expensive .",
    "we discuss the details of how to construct the database and resolve the challenges in the project .",
    "in addition to the database , another key contribution of this work is to explore a family of emerging state - of - the - art deep learning techniques for generic object detection with application to large - scale logo detection and brand recognition tasks and conduct extensive empirical evaluations .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section [ section : problem formulation ] presents the problem formulation of logo detection and brand recognition tasks from real - world product images .",
    "section [ section : database ] introduces the proposed  logo - net \" database as well as presents the deep logo detection framework using the emerging deep region - based convolutional networks techniques .",
    "section [ section : experiment ] presents our empirical studies .",
    "section [ section : conclusion ] concludes this work .",
    "in general , logo detection can be viewed as a special case of generic object detection in computer vision @xcite , which is often more challenging than generic object recognition / classificatin tasks .",
    "logo detection aims to detect logo instances of some pre - defined logo classes in digital images or videos .",
    "similar to a generic object detection task , given an input image , a logo detection method not only needs to indicate if a logo is found in the image , but also needs to report the locations of the detected logo object instances / regionds found in the image .    despite being a special case of generic object detection , logo detection from real - world product images ( e.g. , online shopping portals like taobao.com or aliexpress.com )",
    "is very challenging for several reasons .",
    "first of all , a logo instance occurring in a real product image can be extremely small .",
    "second , a  rigid \" logo instance ( in its original form ) can become non - rigid when it is embedded in a natural product image , e.g. , a logo occurring in a clothing image .",
    "last but not least , logo instances of the same logo class occurring in real - world product images may differ very much due to a variety of changes , such as sizes , rotations , transformations , lighting , coloring , and occlusion , etc .",
    "brand recognition aims to recognize the brand names of products in a real - world product image . from a machine learning and pattern recognition perspective ,",
    "brand recognition is essentially a multi - class image classification task , where an input product image is classified into one of multiple pre - defined brand categories .",
    "the techniques for brand recognition from product images have many important applications , such as intellectual property protection in e - commerce , tracking brand - specific products for business intelligence , and visual online advertising , etc .",
    "although it is viewed as a multi - class image classification task , brand recognition can not be solved directly by applying traditional image recognition techniques that simply do classification based on the visual contents of the whole product image .",
    "this is because the same brand can have multiple kinds of products ( e.g. , bags , shoes , or shirts , etc ) , and thus visual contents of product images from the same brand could be completely different .    to tackle the above challenge , we propose to explore logo detection techniques for brand recognition tasks . by detecting the appearance of logo objects related to a certain brand in a product image",
    ", one can solve the brand recognition task in an effective way .",
    "therefore , the challenge of brand recognition can be reduced into solving a logo detection task from real product images .",
    "finally , we note that a single brand can consist of multiple logo classes .",
    "deep learning has achieved promising results in varied object detection tasks recently @xcite .",
    "one of the most successful deep learning paradigms for object detection is the series of region - based convolutional neural networks ( r - cnn ) @xcite , which had obtained state - of - the - art results in many object detection benchmarks @xcite .",
    "motivated by the successes of r - cnn related techniques for generic object detection , we propose a deep logo detection framework for brand recognition from real - world product images by exploring a family of state - of - the - art deep region - based convolutional networks ( drcn ) techniques .",
    "figure [ fig : framwork ] shows the proposed deeplogo - drcn framework for logo detection and brand recognition from product images .",
    "specifically , given an input image , the region proposal step yields a set of region of interests ( rois ) using an efficient implementation of selective search ( ss )  @xcite .",
    "the rois are then input into a fully convolutional neural network ( cnn ) , in which each roi is pooled into a fixed - size feature map and then mapped to a feature vector by fully connected layers ( fcs ) , followed by training the object classifiers and bounding box regressors . for each roi",
    ", the network yields two kinds of outputs : softmax probabilities and per - class bounding - box regression offsets .",
    "the overall architecture can be trained end - to - end .",
    "the deeplogo - drcn framework can take any recent drcn algorithms for generic object detection , e.g. , traditional r - cnn @xcite ( as shown by dashline ) , fast r - cnn ( frcn )  @xcite and sppnet  @xcite , etc .",
    "in this paper , we present  logo - net \"  a large - scale logo image database to facilitate the research of logo detection and brand recognition tasks with emerging deep learning techniques .",
    "constructing such a large - scale real - world logo image database is very challenging , time - consuming , and costly . in the following ,",
    "we discuss some major tasks and efforts in constructing our logo image database , especially data collection and data annotation tasks .",
    "we will then present two versions of datasets in our current logo - net database , including a medium - scale dataset to ease the evaluations of varied settings , and a large - scale dataset .",
    "finally , we compare our database against some of existing publicly available logo datasets .",
    "the first task of logo - net is to construct a list of brands and their associated popular logos according to the application needs . after building the list",
    ", for each brand and logo , we crawled their related product images from two online retail marketplaces : www.taobao.com  the world s largest marketplace for online shopping targetted at chinese consumers , and www.aliexpress.com  a global retail marketplace targeted at consumers worldwide .",
    "all the product images crawled in our database were publicly available in the online marketplaces . in our database , each brand may have different number of images and each logo class may have different number of logo object instances .",
    "our principle in the data collection is to ensure that each logo class at least has a minimal number of logo object instances for deep - learning research purposes .",
    "one of the most time - consuming and costly processes in constructing the logo - net database is to annotate logo objects from the collected product images . for each product image",
    ", a human annotator needs to identify the logo objects , annotate the bounding box of each logo object , and then tag it with the corresponding logo class i d .",
    "figure [ fig : data - annotation - example ] shows examples of logo object annotation on product images .",
    "f.  cesarini , e.  francesconi , m.  gori , s.  marinai , j.  sheng , and g.  soda . a neural - based architecture for spot - noisy logo recognition . in _ document analysis and recognition , 1997 .",
    ", proceedings of the fourth international conference on _ , volume  1 , pages 175179 .",
    "ieee , 1997 .",
    "r.  j. den  hollander and a.  hanjalic .",
    "logo recognition in video stills by string matching . in _",
    "image processing , 2003 .",
    "icip 2003 . proceedings .",
    "2003 international conference on _ , volume  3 , pages iii517 .",
    "ieee , 2003 .",
    "d.  s. doermann , e.  rivlin , and i.  weiss .",
    "logo recognition using geometric invariants . in _",
    "document analysis and recognition , 1993 . , proceedings of the second international conference on _ , pages 894897 .",
    "ieee , 1993 .",
    "d.  erhan , c.  szegedy , a.  toshev , and d.  anguelov .",
    "scalable object detection using deep neural networks . in _",
    "computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2014 ieee conference on _ , pages 21552162 .",
    "ieee , 2014 .",
    "e.  francesconi , p.  frasconi , m.  gori , s.  marinai , j.  sheng , g.  soda , and a.  sperduti .",
    "logo recognition by recursive neural networks . in _ graphics recognition algorithms and systems _ , pages 104117 .",
    "springer , 1998 .",
    "k.  gao , s.  lin , y.  zhang , s.  tang , and d.  zhang .",
    "logo detection based on spatial - spectral saliency and partial spatial context . in _ multimedia and expo , 2009 .",
    "icme 2009 .",
    "ieee international conference on _ , pages 322329 .",
    "ieee , 2009 .",
    "r.  girshick , j.  donahue , t.  darrell , and j.  malik .",
    "rich feature hierarchies for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation . in _",
    "computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2014 ieee conference on _ , pages 580587 .",
    "ieee , 2014 .",
    "y.  kalantidis , l.  pueyo , m.  trevisiol , r.  van zwol , and y.  avrithis .",
    "scalable triangulation - based logo recognition . in _ in proceedings of acm international conference on multimedia retrieval ( icmr 2011 ) _ , trento , italy , april 2011 .",
    "w.  ouyang , x.  wang , x.  zeng , s.  qiu , p.  luo , y.  tian , h.  li , s.  yang , z.  wang , c.  c. loy , and x.  tang .",
    "deepid - net : deformable deep convolutional neural networks for object detection . in _ ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition , cvpr 2015 , boston , ma , usa , june 7 - 12 , 2015 _ , pages 24032412 , 2015 .",
    "s.  romberg , l.  g. pueyo , r.  lienhart , and r.  van zwol .",
    "scalable logo recognition in real - world images . in _ proceedings of the 1st acm international conference on multimedia retrieval _ , icmr 11 , pages 25:125:8 , new york , ny , usa , 2011 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> logo detection from images has many applications , particularly for brand recognition and intellectual property protection . </S>",
    "<S> most existing studies for logo recognition and detection are based on small - scale datasets which are not comprehensive enough when exploring emerging deep learning techniques . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we introduce  logo - net \" , a large - scale logo image database for logo detection and brand recognition from real - world product images . to facilitate research , logo - net has two datasets : ( i)logos-18 \" consists of 18 logo classes , 10 brands , and 16,043 logo objects , and ( ii )  logos-160 \" consists of 160 logo classes , 100 brands , and 130,608 logo objects . </S>",
    "<S> we describe the ideas and challenges for constructing such a large - scale database . </S>",
    "<S> another key contribution of this work is to apply emerging deep learning techniques for logo detection and brand recognition tasks , and conduct extensive experiments by exploring several state - of - the - art deep region - based convolutional networks techniques for object detection tasks . </S>"
  ]
}