{
  "article_text": [
    "traffic signs classification is one of the foremost important integral parts of autonomous vehicles and advanced driver assistance systems ( adas ) @xcite .",
    "most of the time driver missed traffic signs due to different obstacles and lack of attentiveness .",
    "automating the process of classification of the traffic signs would help reducing accidents .",
    "traditional computer vision and machine learning based methods were widely used for traffic signs classification @xcite , but those methods were soon replaced by deep learning based classifiers .",
    "recently deep convolutional networks have surpassed traditional learning methods in traffic signs classification . with the rapid advances of deep learning algorithm structures and feasibility of its high performance implementation with graphical processing units ( gpu ) ,",
    "it is advantageous to relook the traffic signs classification problems from the efficient deep learning perspective . classification of traffic signs is not so simple task , images are effected to adverse variation due to illumination , orientation , the speed variation of vehicles etc .",
    "normally wide angle camera is mounted on the top of a vehicle to capture traffic signs and other related visual features for adas .",
    "this images are distorted due to several external factors including vehicles speed , sunlight , rain etc .",
    "sample images from gtsrb dataset are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : intro ] .        in this work",
    ", we have developed a new system for classification on the top of existing deep learning methods .",
    "we aim to address the traditional hand crafted data augmentation problem and also the reduction of an overwhelming number of parameters need to be learned by the system . with the reduction of a number of parameters , lesser number of computations and",
    "memory will be used . instead of using a single sized filter for one convolutional layer",
    ", we would use multiple sized filters and concatenate those convolutional filters response to get more abstract representations in one layer .",
    "also , there are disadvantages of using hand crafted data augmentation on some specific datasets for learning parameters that would be used for general purpose . hence learning parameters for data modification inside network is a far better way to improve the accuracy of classification . a modified inception module suitable for traffic sign classification",
    "is proposed to use with googlenet @xcite and to get way with traditional data augmentation we have incorporated spatial transformer network @xcite layer with our proposed network . in terms of accuracy and number of parameters , this method has surpassed state of the art method for traffic sign classification .    traffic sign classification becomes a mature area with the increasing focus on autonomous driving research .",
    "notable research work exists on detection and classification traffic signs for advanced driver assistance systems .",
    "most of the works attempted to address the challenged involved in real life problems due to scaling , rotation , blurring etc .",
    "we will go through the overview of some relevant works since it is not possible to discuss all those research works .",
    "most of the works based on computer vision and machine learning algorithms which use data from several camera sensors mounted on the car roof at different angles . in some of the work ,",
    "researchers explore detection based on colour features , such as converting the colour space from rgb to hsv and then using colour thresholding method for detection and classification by using support vector machine . in colour thresholding approach morphological operation like connected component analysis was done for accurate location .",
    "bahlmann et al@xcite have used colour , shape , motion information and haar wavelet based features for detection , classification of the traffic sign . by using svm based colour classification on a block of pixels le et al @xcite addressed the problems of weather variation .",
    "german traffic sign recognition benchmark ( gtsrb ) is one of the reliable datasets for testing and validating traffic sign classification and detection algorithms . in the competition of gtsrb , top - performing algorithm exceeds best human classification accuracy . by using committee of neural networks",
    "ciresan et al @xcite achieved highest ever performance of 99.46% , which surpassed the best human performance of 98.84% .",
    "their proposed committee composed of 25 networks each having 3 convolutional and 2 fully connected networks with traditional data augmentations and jittering .",
    "the main disadvantages of this committe are multiples networks , a huge number of parameters ( around 90millions ) and dataset dependent handcrafted augmentations .",
    "sermanet et al .",
    "proposed multi - scale convolutional network @xcite with 2 different features stages , which has achieved 98.31% accuracy in this dataset . in our previous work",
    "@xcite a probabilistic latent semantic analysis based model was proposed , which was built upon traditional handcrafted features extraction methods . also ,",
    "other algorithm based on k - d trees and random forest @xcite achieved significant accuracy .",
    "traffic signs classification are affected due to contrast variation , rotational and translational changes .",
    "it is possible to nullify the effect of spatial transformations in an image undergo due to varying speed of vehicles camera by using multiple transformations to the input image . but these handcrafted transformations are not effective always and vary with scenarios . in this work ,",
    "a spatial transformer network @xcite capable of generating automatic transformation of input image is used to make classification more robust and accurate along with a modified version of googlenet @xcite .      due to a moving camera , a image undergoes deformation like blurring , translational deformation , rotational and scale deformations , skew etc . for classification feature map (",
    "include input image batch ) would be passed through layers of spatial transformers .",
    "spatial transformations modules are differentiable hence could be used with backpropagation algorithm for training .",
    "spatial transformer layers consist of three parts such as localisation network , grid generator and the sampling unit .",
    "figure  [ fig : loc ] shows spatial transformer network with its components .",
    "this layer could be inserted at any point into the cnn network and it is efficient to deal with due to its very low computational overhead . using this layer with",
    "cnn obviated the use of handcrafted data augmentation such as translation , rotation etc . and allows the network to learn active transformation of features map .",
    "localisation network can be fully connected or convolutional neural network with one mandatory final regression layer to generate parameters @xmath0 .",
    "dimension of @xmath1 depends on the parameterized transformation @xmath2 type . to compute parameters",
    "localisation network may take input image or input feature map @xmath3 with @xmath4 are the width , height and channels respectively .",
    "localisation network can deal with multiples channels .",
    "also localisation network fig .",
    "[ fig : locnet ] may take any number of convolutional and fully connected layers as per application requirement . using parameters produced by localisation network ,",
    "grid generator creates set of points known as sampling grid .",
    "sampling grid and input feature map ( or input image ) is used by a sampler to generate the transformed output map .",
    "each pixel of the output feature map is computed using sampling kernel centred at a definite input feature map location .",
    "@xmath5 for a input feature map pixel @xmath6 and learned 2d affine transformation parameters @xmath2 , the output feature map pixel @xmath7 is computed as follows @xmath8 using the transformation defined in we can perform operations such as translation , rotation , scale , skew and cropping in the input feature map .",
    "parameters @xmath9 are computed using equation .",
    "interestingly this transformation requires only 6 parameters to be learned by localisation network .",
    "( start ) feature map ; ( acquire ) conv ; ( rgb2gray ) max ; ( otsu ) conv ; ( gc ) max ; ( gchannel ) fc ; ( closing ) fc ; ( out ) @xmath10 $ ] ; ( right ) ; ( left ) ;    ( start ) edge ( acquire ) ( acquire ) edge ( rgb2gray ) ( rgb2gray.east ) -| ( right )  ( left ) |- ( otsu ) ( otsu ) edge ( gc ) ( gc ) edge ( gchannel ) ( gchannel ) edge ( closing ) ( closing ) edge ( out ) ;              a modified version of googlenet @xcite with batch normalization @xcite is used as parent network for the classification task .",
    "googlenet is based on the inception architecture .",
    "several inception modules stacked upon each other to produce the final output . at the inception module varied size of convolutional filters were use to capture features of different abstraction .",
    "high level of abstraction is captured with filters of higher size and that of a lower level using small size filters .",
    "processing visual information at different scales and aggregating them result in an efficient level of abstraction .",
    "since directly applying more convolutional filters with image data and concatenating them is computationally expensive , so in the final inception model a dimensionality reduction filters was used very applying abstraction level filters .",
    "for dimensionality reduction @xmath11 convolutional filters are used . besides being very successful for dimensionality reduction ,",
    "this filters also come to be useful as rectified linear activation .",
    "inception architecture is efficient in terms of computational complexity with respect to number of units at each stage . for our classification task a modified version of inception module",
    "is used . for traffic sign classification",
    "local abstract features play important role .",
    "signs belonging to same group have slight difference in local structure with each other , which make it hard to distinguish .",
    "a extra @xmath12 convolutional reduction kernel is added with max pooling at the top of it to capture discriminative local structure at the beginning itself .",
    "signs belonging to different groups has global abstraction which can be captured using @xmath13 convolutional reduction kernel .",
    "improved performance is observed with this architecture over normal inception module",
    ". figure  [ fig : gincept ] shows google inception module and fig .  [ fig : myincept ] shows our proposed inception module .        [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "this paper proposes a deep convolutional network with a fewer number of parameters and memory requirements in comparisons to existing methods .",
    "the presented network does nt need data jittering and handcrafted data augmentations .",
    "our main contribution includes the development of modified inception module and a deep network using spatial transformer layer for traffic sign classification .",
    "i would like to show deep acknowledgement to my professors at iit guwahati and iiit bangalore for valuable suggestion during this work . also nvidia corporation for donating gpus for this work .",
    "j. stallkamp , m. schlipsing , j. salmen , and c. igel .",
    "the german traffic sign recognition benchmark : a multi - class classification competition . in proceedings of the ieee international joint conference on neural networks , pages 14531460 .",
    "2011 .",
    "haloi , m. , jayagopi , d. b. characterizing driving behavior using automatic visual analysis . in proceedings of the 6th ibm collaborative academia research exchange conference ( i - care ) on i - care 2014 ( pp . 1 - 4 ) .",
    "mccall , j. c. , trivedi , m. m. video - based lane estimation and tracking for driver assistance : survey , system , and evaluation .",
    "ieee transactions on intelligent transportation systems , 7(1 ) , 20 - 37 .",
    "( 2006 ) .",
    "braunagel , c. , kasneci , e. , stolzmann , w. , rosenstiel , w. driver - activity recognition in the context of conditionally autonomous driving . in 2015 ieee 18th international conference on intelligent transportation systems ( pp .",
    "1652 - 1657 ) .",
    "( 2015 ) .",
    "zaklouta , f. , stanciulescu , b. , hamdoun , o. traffic sign classification using kd trees and random forests . in neural networks",
    "( ijcnn ) , the 2011 international joint conference on ( pp .",
    "2151 - 2155 ) .",
    "ieee ( 2011 )    bahlmann , c. , zhu , y. , ramesh , v. , pellkofer , m. , koehler , t. a system for traffic sign detection , tracking , and recognition using color , shape , and motion information . in intelligent vehicles symposium , 2005",
    ". proceedings .",
    "ieee ( pp . 255 - 260 ) . ieee ( 2005 )    le , t. t. , tran , s. t. , mita , s. , nguyen , t. d. real time traffic sign detection using color and shape - based features .",
    "in intelligent information and database systems ( pp . 268 - 278 ) .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg ( 2010 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this work , we propose a novel deep network for traffic sign classification that achieves outstanding performance on gtsrb surpassing all previous methods . </S>",
    "<S> our deep network consists of spatial transformer layers and a modified version of inception module specifically designed for capturing local and global features together . </S>",
    "<S> this features adoption allows our network to classify precisely intraclass samples even under deformations . </S>",
    "<S> use of spatial transformer layer makes this network more robust to deformations such as translation , rotation , scaling of input images . </S>",
    "<S> unlike existing approaches that are developed with hand - crafted features , multiple deep networks with huge parameters and data augmentations , our method addresses the concern of exploding parameters and augmentations . </S>",
    "<S> we have achieved the state - of - the - art performance of 99.81% on gtsrb dataset .    </S>",
    "<S> keywords : advanced driver assistant system , image classification , traffic sign , deep networks </S>"
  ]
}