{
  "article_text": [
    "the impressive rescue and repurposing of the k2 mission ( ( * ? ? ? * howell et al .",
    "( 2014 ) ) ) has the promise of high - precision photometry for numerous ecliptic fields of view , with access to numbers and types of targets not envisioned in the original kepler mission .",
    "however , the operating mode for k2 differs significantly from that of the original kepler mission , so the data present significantly greater analysis complexities .",
    "this situation is exacerbated by the fact that at present the k2 guest observer office does not plan to provide a vetted and standardized pipeline product , but instead simply access to the relatively raw observing frames .",
    "the lack of a pipeline and data product endorsed by the mission has led a number of teams to develop their own pipelines ( ( * ? ? ? * aigrain et al .",
    "( 2015 ) ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* armstrong et al . ( 2015 ) ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* lund et al . ( 2015 ) ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* vanderburg & johnson ( 2015 ) ) ) , and the work presented here is broadly similar . however , since there is no `` ground truth '' for k2 data products , and different approaches to k2 data reduction are independent of one another , the existence of products from multiple pipelines is complementary rather than competitive , and the differing approaches are likely to be more or less suited to different kinds of targets .",
    "in addition , we are further motivated by the desire to perform serendipitous science using the background sources in each k2 frame , and by the desire to include undergraduate students in the development and analysis work . in some cases ,",
    "we compare our results to those of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* vanderburg & johnson ( 2015 ) ) , as this is currently the most widely - used pipeline .",
    "here we briefly describe the operation of the pipeline and its products for long - cadence k2 data . while operation and output shown are generally for the pipeline operating in batch mode , it can also be run in single - frame mode to obtain more refined results , particularly for targets displaying unusual photometric characteristics .",
    "long - cadence k2 time series , like the kepler time series , have 30-minute cadence , and the spacecraft returns `` postage stamps '' surrounding primary targets .",
    "these small images have varying sizes , typically approximately 25 pixels square in campaign 0 , but with decreasing sizes in following campaigns .",
    "we begin by estimating and removing the background level in each image , using the median of the faintest 20% of the pixels , and then construct a mean image from the time series as shown in figure  1 for the campaign 0 primary target epic  202066811 . due to the @xmath0 hourly spacecraft pointing corrections ,",
    "stellar images show varying degrees of elongation depending primarily on the distance of the postage stamp from boresight .        targets are identified in the mean image through a brute - force search for local maxima in the frame , avoiding edge pixels .",
    "this is a relatively inefficient process which is nonetheless practical due to the small frame size . to avoid accidentally identifying background noise peaks as sources , as a default we require that each peak be more than @xmath1 above its immediate neighbors , though this level can be manually modified in single - frame mode .",
    "the example shown in figure  2 imposed a @xmath2 requirement , leading to 3 targets in the frame rather than the 5 which would result in default mode .",
    "we next generate a mask to use for aperture photometry .",
    "the initial mask for a target is simply the one - pixel local maximum previously identified as the target location , and a time series is calculated based on that pixel .",
    "the resulting time series is then twice - differenced to improve stationarity ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* box & jenkins ( 1970 ) ) ) , and @xmath3 is taken as a figure of merit .",
    "additional mask are then generated algorithmically by adding the largest contiguous pixel . a new time series and figure of merit",
    "are then calculated , and the mask resulting in the time series with the lowest twice - differenced @xmath3 is adopted .",
    "the process can be terminated early if adding an additional pixel would result in the addition to the mask of a pixel with a larger mean image value than any previously included in the mask .",
    "this latter constraint helps to avoid `` bridging '' between nearby targets .",
    "of the twice - differenced time series ) , shown as a function of mask size for a k2 campaign 1 target .",
    "the best mask size in this case was 103 pixels , which is typical of targets in the uncrowded campaign  1 frames ; c0 mask sizes are generally smaller ( see figure  4).,width=316 ]    no attempt is made to ensure that masks for individual targets in a frame do not overlap .",
    "however , the mask construction procedure makes this uncommon and in practice it only occurs for truly overlapping targets .",
    "when masks do overlap , the number of overlapping pixels is noted and used as a proxy for crowding . once the masks are constructed , simple aperture photometry is used to calculate fluxes along with @xmath4 centroid and background estimates",
    ". figure  4 illustrates the resulting masks for the frame in figure  1 .",
    "pixels ) than those typical of the uncrowded c1 field seen in figure  3.,width=316 ]    detrending is normally required due to the presence of spacecraft pointing resets , along with additional correlated noise .",
    "we have the capability to detrend against @xmath4 centroid , background level , and fwhm , but normally only positional detrending is used .",
    "points corresponding to spacecraft pointing resets are identified through examination of the differenced centroid time series and removed , and the entire time series is then detrended using a low - order ( typically @xmath5 ) polynomial fit .",
    "the time series is then broken into overlapping segments of length @xmath6 ( variations are possible depending on the behavior of the time series dft ) , and further detrended using low - order ( @xmath7 ) polynomial fits , with the exact order a function of the number of points in each segment .",
    "detrending is repeated in an iterative fashion until the improvement in successive time series second - differenced @xmath3 fails to exceed 1% ; typically @xmath8 times .",
    "figure  5 shows the typical improvement from raw to detrending time series , while figure  6 illustrates the effect of detrending on the flux - centroid correlation .",
    "the resulting time series have noise characteristics ( particularly cdpp , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* gilliland et al . ( 2011 ) ) ) which are similar to those shown by vanderberg & johnson ( 2014 ) , though typically our low - frequency noise is modestly better and our high - frequency noise is slightly worse .",
    "one aspect of this behavior , shown in figure  7 for the @xmath9 campaign 1 red giant star epic  201757842 , is that the offsets between data before and after time series gaps which frequently occur in the vanderberg & johnson ( 2014 ) pipeline are absent from ours .",
    "in addition , we tend to produce cleaner time series for fainter targets , but vanderberg & johnson s results are generally superior for bright targets and those with larger - amplitude periodic variability .",
    "figure  8 illustrates the dft for the time series shown in figure  7 , which should be compared with figure  2 in stello et al .",
    "a simple analysis broadly following the procedure in stello et al . ( 2015 ) leads to @xmath10 and @xmath11 , comparable ( within errors ) to the results in stello et al .     and",
    "@xmath11 , comparable ( within errors ) to the results in stello et al .",
    "( 2015).,width=316 ]",
    "we plan to begin an undergraduate `` student - sourced '' search for transiting exoplanet candidates , concentrating on the secondary sources in the k2 frames , and making use of students taking an `` exoplanets '' course at florida gulf coast university . in support of this project ,",
    "we have used python to construct some simple gui - based tools which allow visualization and period - searching ( using dft , bls , etc . ) of the k2 time series ( figure  9 ) .",
    "the tools run under both windows and macintosh operating systems , allowing students to use their personal computers to contribute to the project .",
    "in addition , the pipeline supports additional ongoing k2 projects , including rotation / activity correlations among solar analogs , red giant oscillation detection and characterization , and eclipsing binary identification ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the k2 mission is a repurposed use of the kepler spacecraft to perform high - precision photometry of selected fields in the ecliptic . </S>",
    "<S> we have developed an aperture photometry pipeline for k2 data which performs dynamic automated aperture mask selection , background estimation and subtraction , and positional decorrelation to minimize the effects of spacecraft pointing jitter . </S>",
    "<S> we also identify secondary targets in the k2 `` postage stamps '' and produce light curves for those targets as well . </S>",
    "<S> pipeline results will be made available to the community . </S>",
    "<S> here we describe our pipeline and the photometric precision we are capable of achieving with k2 , and illustrate its utility with asteroseismic results from the serendipitous secondary targets . </S>"
  ]
}