{
  "article_text": [
    "multilayer network architectures in the form of packet - over - wavelength switched networks represent the core transport infrastructure of the current , and the future , internet . however , realizing optimized resource management of such networking architectures has been increasingly challenging ; particularly with the shift of communication patterns and dissemination strategies towards high frequency information exchange , as well as the rapid growth of traffic volumes associated with the high demand for video / audio content .",
    "this shift introduces the need to utilize an information - centered communication framework that has a better adaptability to the traffic needs",
    ".    meanwhile , the growth of the internet has been accompanied with a dramatic change in aggregate traffic patterns .",
    "the most significant of the changes is the convergence of the majority of the internet applications and services towards the use of the http protocol ; whereby traffic is generated from content delivery networks ( cdns ) , clouds and http caching points of large content / service providers @xcite .",
    "a strongly correlated change in usage behavior has also been witnessed in access networks @xcite .",
    "this change provides motivation for developing a scalable _ anycast _ dissemination mode that offers flexible resource utilization , realized for a broad range of traffic granularities , and with minimal waste of resources .",
    "the change also provides the potential to introduce new aggregation mechanisms that are based on information semantics , such as content popularity , rather than end - point identifiers .    however , direct semantic - based information dissemination is not natively supported within the current design of the internet , due to the host - centric nature of the ip model .",
    "alternatively , information - centric networking ( icn ) is an emerging approach that introduces the semantics of information to the communication process and thus facilitates the establishment of communication relations based on common information interest rather than end host identifiers @xcite .",
    "consequently , it has the potential to bring new flexibility to the resource management of multilayer networks through the ability to manage traffic by the popularity of its content .",
    "in particular , icn facilitates traffic aggregation based on information semantics ; this offers two major advantages .",
    "first , it allows for a native identification of multiple information sources , which can be used as cache points ; thus , enabling a natural _ anycast _ support in the network .",
    "this provides scalable and native information dissemination in a similar manner to cdns without such architectural violations as those imposed by dns and http redirects . as a result",
    ", resource allocation may benefit from increased flexibility through inclusion of multiple sources .",
    "this , in turn , offers enhanced support for resilience , qos and general traffic engineering functions .",
    "second , it allows for decomposing the demands in such a way that fits the content requirements and the network constraints .",
    "these advantages , empower the network operator with enhanced management capabilities based on knowledge of the demand semantics as well as the network capacity .    aggregating traffic based on information semantics requires the ability to represent the data properties and characteristics in organized structures . in this context , icn architectures such as pursuit @xcite , ccn  @xcite and dona  @xcite offer flexible aggregation of information at different based on different semantics .",
    "in particular , the pursuit architecture allows any information semantic to be aggregated within multiple hierarchical , as well as multi - homed , data structures that can be published by any entity in the network ( i.e. publisher , subscriber , network operator , etc ) .",
    "therefore , it offers the network a direct method to describe traffic aggregation models based on information - semantics .",
    "although icn architectures are well developed at the packet layer , any future solution will require the use of transport networks , such as optical switched networks , to provide the underlying networking infrastructure .",
    "this is as yet , an unexplored area within the icn community .",
    "consequently , the aim of this paper is to use the information space and functional model of the pursuit architecture to introduce , and control , a new multi - layer icn / wdm network architecture .",
    "the proposed architecture utilizes these features of pursuit to : facilitate traffic aggregation based on information semantics ; and , offer native support of _ anycast _ delivery at the wavelength layer , resulting in enhanced light - path assignment approaches .",
    "this paper considers the scenario of a large scale network operator that has a number of alternative peering points and cdn caches .",
    "these cdn caches may either be controlled by the operator or be placed in the operator s network by a content provider . in this context , there are often a number of alternative sources ( ingress points ) for large scale content catalogs .",
    "our work considers each set of sources with the same content as represented using the same information identifiers in an icn context .",
    "the connection of these sources to points - of - presence in the network will be delivered through optical light - paths , through the underlying transport network . by unifying the concepts of traditional optical light - path planning and anycast , through icn naming",
    ", this paper demonstrates that there are significant advantages over the contemporary ip / wdm architecture .    in particular it",
    "should be noted that here we are assuming that icn is used to categorize , and aggregate , content identifiers using an icn naming system .",
    "consequently , the icn architecture provides the mechanism to bind content identifiers to a location , or multiple locations .",
    "in contrast , contemporary ip carrier networks do not provide this feature ; therefore , content providers implement an anycast like behaviour for clients through dns / http redirection .",
    "however , when it comes to aggregate content dissemination , there is no clearly defined mechanism in ip networks for operators to identify aggregate content and provide traffic management based on content type and location .",
    "we elucidate our work using the pursuit architecture ; however , the work proposed here is generally applicable to other icn architectures with suitable modification .",
    "the most important features that enable this work are the ability to group information through naming and the ability to obtain data from , possibly , multiple locations ( anycast ) , which are supported by most icn architectures .",
    "this brings us to the main problem addressed by this work , which is to reduce the blocking probability and power consumption within this new icn multilayer architecture through routing and wavelength assignment that benefits from flexible source selection , provided by the new architecture .    to frame the problem of source selection and rwa",
    ", we revisit the emerging trade - off between network performance and operational cost .",
    "this trade - off is illustrated by the high blocking rate and low power consumption introduced by power - aware ( pa ) algorithms versus the low blocking rate and , relatively , high power consumption , realized by least congestion path ( lcp ) algorithms @xcite .",
    "we then show that by utilizing the icn naming to aggregate content , superior performance can be realized for the same or lower power consumption , compared to that of the ip model .",
    "the components of the novel icn multilayer communication framework can now be introduced : +",
    "* icn multilayer network architecture * using the pursuit architecture as a concrete example , we introduce the hierarchy of the icn / wdm multilayer network ; we present the architectural functions of each layer as well as their icn pub / sub communication approach . + * information - centric network model * using a novel traffic aggregation model ( based on information `` popularity '' ) that can be applied to the icn / wdm architecture , we define a network model that describes the information - centric rwa ( irwa ) problem within the icn pub / sub communication approach . +",
    "* icn routing algorithms * to solve the irwa problem , we propose a novel power - aware algorithm that addresses the trade - off between power consumption and network performance .",
    "the optimization is carried out through joint use of asymmetrical , convex , cost functions that take into account the traffic aggregation model .",
    "the rest of this paper is structured as follows : section [ sec : pursuit ] outlines the pursuit architecture focussing on the key enablers for the icn / wdm architecture . section [ sec : ml ] outlines conventional multilayer networking architectures and reviews state - of - the - art rwa algorithms addressing the trade - off between power - awareness and load .",
    "section  [ sec : ml - icn ] , introduces the icn / wdm architecture and the pub / sub communication approach .",
    "section [ sec : nm ] , introduces the network model and defines the irwa problem using popularity as one information semantic that can be utilized to aggregate content identifiers .",
    "section [ sec : alg ] , presents the algorithm for solving the irwa problem , named maximum degree of connectivity ( maxdeg ) , with a summary of notations shown in table  [ tab : not ] ; while section [ sec : eva ] evaluates the performance of maxdeg within both the ip / wdm and the icn / wdm architectures using zipf s law as an exemplary popularity model to construct the icn demand matrix .",
    "finally , section [ sec : con ] draws our conclusions .",
    "here , we briefly outline the pursuit architecture  @xcite and highlight the features and functions utilized to support the proposed icn / wdm architecture .",
    "the communication paradigm of pursuit is of a publish / subscribe nature : content , service requests , message exchanges , etc . are information items that can either be published or subscribed to .",
    "this model is utilized for all communication , including those between the architectural functions .",
    "information publications are arranged within hierarchies of groups named _",
    "scopes _ that reflect common semantics , such as : content type , security requirements , transmission constraints and so forth .",
    "publications can be associated with each other and potentially be linked to any number of scopes , through which different semantics are reflected .",
    "a pub / sub relation is established when there exists a common interest of a particular publication , which would ultimately result in a data transmission from the information publisher to the information subscriber .",
    "the functional model of pursuit consists of three distinct core functions : _ rendezvous _ , _ topology management _ and _ forwarding_. + * rendezvous ( rv ) : * maintains the information space and offers matching services between publications and subscriptions to the communicating entities .",
    "when a publisher wishes to provide information , it publishes its availability to the rv , which will position it in the information graph according to its scope affiliation and add the publisher to the set of publishers of this information .",
    "an interested subscriber wishing to receive this information sends a subscription request to the rv .",
    "when a match occurs , the rv publishes a topology formation request to the topology management function ( tm ) asking the latter to establish an end - to - end delivery path . +",
    "* topology management ( tm ) : * controls the network connectivity and handles topology formation tasks .",
    "multilayer networks can be supported by establishing multiple tm functions , one per layer , that communicate with each other through the pub / sub model described above , as illustrated in  [ fig : mlt ] and explained in section  [ sec : ml - icn ] .",
    "the tm selects the best publisher out of the set of publishers according to the optimization objective of the routing algorithm .",
    "when a delivery path is required , the lipsin mechanism  @xcite can be used ; this requires the tm to create a bloom filter ( bf ) based forwarding identifier ( fid ) , which will be provided to the publisher in order to specify the packets route in the network . + * forwarding ( fw ) : * by default the pursuit architecture proposes the lipsin mechanism  @xcite which is a form of source routing .",
    "lipsin utilises fixed length link identifiers ( lids ) , rather than using node identifiers .",
    "the tm forms the fid by encoding each of the path lids in the bf and this fid is carried in the packet header .",
    "consequently , each forwarding node in the network can accomplish simple and fast packet processing by performing bit - wise and and compare operations to test the membership of the node s lids in the received fid .",
    "various optimization efforts have been made within pursuit , including : resource optimization through routing over multiple links based on information semantics , thereby maximizing the free capacity  @xcite ; source recovery by exploiting the advantages of _ anycast _ to realize information as well as network resilience  @xcite ; and , caching optimizations based on information placement and routing @xcite .",
    "core networks are generally decomposed into multi - layer systems .",
    "this is a natural decomposition as physical connectivity is naturally circuit oriented ( e.g. a fiber optic cable ) , while packet transport is generally switched on a per - packet basis either according to routing tables or virtual circuit switch tables .",
    "this paper considers a two layer approach to resource management , where the packet switched layer is connected using an optical switched layer that can switch light - paths between optical cross - connects ( oxcs ) .",
    "the oxc layer has strong integer constraints on the path computation due to the limited light - path resources and the inability to support multi - granularity bit - rate per light - path .",
    "in addition we assume that the wavelength of a single path can not be changed in an oxc : a wavelength continuity constraint .",
    "in contrast , the packet switch layer allows almost infinitesimal control over how packets are switched and shared over the circuits that provide connectivity between end - points in the network .",
    "thus the problem is to determine light - paths that provide the necessary transport pipes to the packet switched layer and that meet the required optimization goals .",
    "the problem of light - path provisioning ( i.e. rwa ) has been extensively studied for ip / wdm architectures with the general objectives of conserving wavelength resources while maximizing the network performance  @xcite .",
    "typically , these objectives can be realized by utilizing load - balancing algorithms such as shortest - path first fit ( sff )  @xcite and least congested path ( lcp )  @xcite , which evenly distributes the load across the network links and therefore reduces the chances of developing bottlenecks .",
    "although load balancing significantly improves the network performance , it comes at the cost of poor utilization of power hungry components such as erbium doped fiber amplifiers ( edfa ) and 3r in - line generators  @xcite .",
    "in particular , lcp algorithms generally tend to ignite most of the free links in the network before efficiently utilizing active links .",
    "therefore , in scenarios where the network is lightly loaded , a large number of components operate with a small amount of load per link .",
    "this leads to a number of undesired consequences such as : high power consumption , high operational costs and under utilization of operating elements , especially when the overall offered load is relatively low  @xcite .",
    "power consumption of telecoms infrastructure has been rapidly increasing with the expansion in the underlying transport networks , such that it is now key optimization challenge in current as well as future infrastructures  @xcite .",
    "power consumption can be reduced by utilizing power - aware ( pa ) algorithms , which increase the utilization of active links in the network in order to decrease the number of operating components  @xcite .",
    "these algorithms perform well when the offered load is low to medium . however , when the load increases , such algorithms tend to create bottlenecks by overloading active links while leaving others free or under utilized .",
    "this imbalance in the load distribution often results in a sharp degradation of the network performance , especially when the offered load to the network is relatively high .",
    "a trade - off between power saving and network performance , has been discussed in @xcite highlighting the advantage of adopting both aspects in suitable cost functions to mitigate the impact of the power optimization objective on the network performance .",
    "however , these algorithms generally result in blocking rates that are higher than sff or lcp . in this paper",
    ", we address this shortcoming by developing , in section  [ costfun ] , a new algorithm that utilizes asymmetric convex functions that offer better network performance than sff for lower power consumption than lcp .",
    "we also illustrate the impact of the ip model limitations on the proposed algorithm , which causes the resultant power consumption to be always higher than that of sff ; while the added flexibility of icn , illustrated in the next section , significantly enhances the outcome of the algorithm .",
    "this will be illustrated by a higher performance of the proposed algorithm compared to that of sff for lower , or similar , power consumption .",
    "furthermore , we will show the potential of an icn architecture to enhance the performance of conventional rwa algorithms , such as sff and lcp .",
    "the architecture of the proposed solution is shown in  [ fig : mlt ] .",
    "this shows how a physical node comprises both an oxc and packet switched component , but at separate layers .",
    "this is a rather simplistic view as there may be oxc systems without associated packet switching ; or alternatively multiple packet switches may form a network of packet switches over a fixed optical transport network .",
    "nevertheless , the result of this layering is that it leads to a hierarchical approach to topology management . in particular ,",
    "[ fig : mlt ] shows part of the hierarchy in the form of a domain level tm which uses information from the packet layer tm , this in turn uses information from the oxc layer tm .",
    "only one packet layer tm and oxc layer tm is illustrated in the diagram , but it might be that multiple areas of the network , possibly using different technology or forming different administrative zones , publish information that is used by the domain tm .",
    "the solution presented in  [ fig : mlt ] expands an icn architecture to include the optical transport layer so that it is suitable for a carrier grade network .",
    "the numbered arrows on the diagram show the conceptual sequence of events .",
    "forwarders monitor traffic at their ingress nodes and publish this information as step 1 . while in theory it would be possible to report individual forwarder queue occupancy for traffic engineering ( te ) purposes , for a complex network , buffer occupancy generally changes too quickly for a centralized system to respond to this change and maintain a stable control system .",
    "consequently , the monitoring aims at measuring general traffic trends over fixed time periods , e.g. in the range of few minutes .",
    "this periodic traffic information is published and the packet and oxc layer tms subscribe to this information .",
    "the oxc layer is typically not very agile as the time to change a path may take the order of tenths of a second which disrupts existing traffic .",
    "consequently , changes are made infrequently ( in order of hours or days ) to avoid too much disruption .",
    "the oxc layer uses the traffic monitoring information and network planning information to make path computation decisions in the oxc - tm and setup the light - paths that provide the connectivity to the packet layer .",
    "the slow changing information on the optical light - paths is then published and the packet layer tm subscribes to this information in step 3 .    the packet layer tm computes optimum forwarding identifiers ( fids ) between each pair of nodes in the network based upon the predicted traffic from the traffic monitoring information that it has  subscribed to \" .",
    "these fids are calculated in advance of when they will be used through the optimization algorithms that meet the required te goals ; these algorithms are described later . in carrier networks",
    ", there is evidence that aggregated traffic is stable over the course of minutes @xcite , so that this fid calculation can be made every few minutes and still maintain a solution that is close to optimal .",
    "this fid information is published in step 4 and the domain tm subscribes to this information and caches the fids for each node pair . in the case of _ multicast _ traffic these fids can be combined to form trees .",
    "the result of this cooperation between the three tms is that the domain tm can make a very fast fid calculation based upon a simple lookup table and yet supply paths that meet the designated te goals . in the diagram , the publisher / subscriber nodes are notionally connected to the ingress / egress of this network .",
    "however , in practice this is unlikely as , other networks , with their own topology management function , may be between the publisher / subscriber and the ingress / egress .",
    "here we investigate the intra - domain scenario as shown in  [ fig : mlt ] assuming that the inter - domain problem is essentially a collection of intra - domain optimizations that are considered independently by each operator , as with the current internet .",
    "the path computation in the packet layer , highlighted in section  [ sec : pursuit ] , has an important advantage with respect to te that will now be described . in ip or ip / mpls networks ,",
    "traffic is generally transmitted over a single path due to the nature of tcp , which generally performs poorly if traffic belonging to the same micro - flow is transported over different links .",
    "this is fundamentally linked to the fact that ip uses a destination based identifier for its forwarding model . in ip , it is possible to switch on micro - flows , but these can only be discriminated by utilizing network / transport layer inspection and maintaining some per - flow state . in core networks",
    ", this is prohibitively expensive .",
    "in contrast , the functional model of the pursuit architecture proposes a different forwarding model where the fid uniquely identifies the path rather than a destination .",
    "this is made possible using the source routing lipsin approach described earlier  @xcite that allows each publication to be sent over a uniquely defined path .",
    "consequently the packet layer tm can report multiple paths between each pair of nodes when it publishes the fid information ( that the domain tm subscribes to ) .",
    "in addition , it publishes how the fids should be used ; for example how much traffic should be allocated to each fid to meet the te goals .",
    "this association between a path and a publication , combined with the ability to aggregate publications based on their popularity , allows for introducing popularity semantics to the wavelength resources ; thereby , supporting native anycast dissemination directly on the optical layer , as will be described in the next section .",
    "here , we present a migration story of the demand formulation from the host - centric model of the ip / wdm architecture to the icn model . the new",
    "formulation defines  popularity \" as a suitable information semantic for the purpose of traffic aggregation , which allows straightforward support of _ anycast _ delivery .",
    ".summary of notation and definitions [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     the _ blocking rate _ and _ resource consumption _",
    "factors have been measured for two scenarios , modeled using the geant network topology  @xcite @xmath0 .",
    "the first scenario measures the network performance when the number of wavelengths per vertex is fixed while the ratio of the offered load to the total network capacity is increasing .",
    "the _ offered load _ is defined in terms of a ratio that reflects the total number of requested light - paths relative to the total number of wavelengths in the network .",
    "the number of wavelengths per vertex has been fixed to @xmath1 , providing a @xmath2 total wavelength capacity , while the ratio of offered load increases from @xmath3 to @xmath4 with a step of @xmath5 .",
    "these bounds have been chosen to exemplify a carrier network load , ranging from relatively low to high .",
    "the second scenario considers a fixed ratio of offered load and studies the effect of increasing the number of wavelengths .",
    "the offered load is fixed such that there is a demand request from each vertex to every other vertex in the network ( i.e. @xmath6 ) , while the number of wavelengths per vertex increases from @xmath1 to @xmath7 in steps of @xmath8 .",
    "the strength of the resultant light - path topology , _ connectedness _ , has been measured for synthetically generated mesh graphs ; whereby the vertex out - degree follows a weibull distribution of a standard shape parameter @xmath9 and min / max vertex degree of @xmath10 .",
    "this factor has been measured for a growing network size ( i.e. increasing number of vertices ) or expanding network capacity ( i.e. increasing number of wavelengths ) .",
    "the network growth follows an incremental model ; whereby , the number of vertices starts from a value of @xmath11 and increases by a factor of two , while the number of wavelengths per vertex is fixed to @xmath12 . in the second case ,",
    "the network size is fixed to @xmath13 vertices , while the number of wavelengths increases from @xmath14 to @xmath15 , doubling each time .",
    "for all scenarios , each point / bar in the presented figures is the average of @xmath16 experiments of randomized sets of demands and synthetic graphs , with 95% confidence interval .",
    "this factor reflects the number of rejected light - path requests , measured as a fraction of the ratio of offered load .",
    "the results of the first scenario , presented in  [ fig : br ] , indicate that on average when the network is lightly loaded the blocking rate can be decreased by one to two orders of magnitude in the icn model compared to ip .",
    "this has been observed in general , even for the sff algorithm , which performs considerably better than its ip counterpart .",
    "the improvement indicates the significant impact of retaining multiple light - publishers per light - publication , either as originating sources or as replication points .",
    "the results also show that the blocking rate achieved by maxdeg_pa is lower than that of sff and higher than that of maxdeg_lcp .",
    "the lower blocking rate comes as a result of the enhanced load balancing of the proposed pa function .",
    "however , it is worse than maxdeg_lcp due to the concentration effect cause by the power awareness .",
    "wavelengths and an increasing ratio of offered load . ]    similarly , when the number of demands is fixed , the blocking rate generally decreases with the increase in the wavelength capacity , as exhibited in  [ fig : ipwbr ] .",
    "the reduction in the blocking rate is similar to that shown in  [ fig : br ] , albeit with less variation .",
    "demands and an increasing number of wavelengths . ]",
    "this metric reflects the network cost in terms of power consumption , expressed by the number of operating amplifiers , which is controlled by the number of utilized links in the network .",
    "[ fig : iplu ] measures the fraction of amplifiers that have been utilized and it shows that all the icn algorithms have similar power consumption to maxdeg_lcp in ip . although , the results seem to show that icn performs worse with regard to power consumption compared to sff and maxdeg_pa in ip , this is in the context of the icn model admitting considerably more traffic , as shown in  [ fig : br ] .",
    "the icn performance is influenced by the publisher exhaustion component of the light - publisher cost function , which tends to distribute the load of a highly popular light - publication over multiple publishers .",
    "consequently , it breaks down the corresponding set of light - subscribers into subsets ; whereby , a smaller delivery tree , which may consists of new links , is established from a single light - publisher to each subset .",
    "those links activated by such trees are further utilized to deliver less popular light - publications , instead of activating new links .",
    "this effect is further magnified with the use of caching / replication features , which expand the set of candidate light - publishers .",
    "[ fig : iplu ] also indicates that the choice of algorithm in the icn model can be solely based on the blocking rate , since the power variation between the different algorithms is negligible .",
    "although , maxdeg_pa shows a noticeable resource saving compared to maxdeg_lcp , it is a small gain compared to the reduction in the blocking rate achieved by maxdeg_lcp . in contrast , in the ip model , the ratio of amplifiers lit by maxdeg_pa is higher than that of sff and lower than that of maxdeg_lcp . to this extent , the benefit of maxdeg_pa in better addressing the discussed trade - off is illustrated in improving the resource savings compared to maxdeg_lcp , while maintaining a lower blocking rate than that of sff .",
    "wavelengths and an increasing ratio of offered load . ]",
    "similar results are exhibited in  [ fig : ipwlu ] , for the icn model , when increasing the number of wavelengths .",
    "however , for the ip model , the ratio of activated amplifiers by maxdeg_pa decreases as the number of wavelengths increases .",
    "this is caused by the concentration effect of the power awareness term in the proposed function of  ( [ lcost ] ) , which benefits from the increased capacity in routing the admitted demands over fewer links . whereas , the ratio activated by maxdeg_lcp remains fixed when the number of wavelengths increases .",
    "this is caused by the fact that lcp already utilizes as many free edges as it needs , which maximizes the number of operating amplifiers .",
    "therefore , an increase in the number of wavelengths leads to a better network performance , in terms of blocking rate .",
    "but , it does not affect the number of utilized links , and therefore the number of amplifiers .     demands and an increasing number of wavelengths . ]",
    "we define _ logical connectedness _ as the ratio between : the minimum number of light - paths that need to be removed , to disconnect each fw from the other ; to the minimum number of fiber links that need to be removed to disconnect each oxc from the other .",
    "this factor provides insight into the strength and density of the logical topology offered to the packet layer , as well as the fairness in satisfying the demands of different nodes .",
    "the factor has been measured by the average _ connectedness _ of the logical topology relative to that of the physical topology , for two ratios of offered load @xmath17 . in this context",
    ", a logical edge is established between a pair of packet forwarders if there is at least one light - path that connects them .",
    "accordingly , the capacity of a logical edge is defined by the number of light - paths connecting its end - forwarders ( i.e. the flow size ) .",
    "[ [ sec:73 ] ] expanding wavelength capacity + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    [ fig : ipls ] exhibits the average connectedness of the ip and icn models for fixed network size and expanding wavelength capacity .",
    "the results indicate that , in general , the icn model improves the logical connectedness by @xmath18 for all the examined capacities .",
    "moreover , the variation among the different algorithms in the icn model is very small , compared to that of the ip model . in the ip model ,",
    "when the ratio of offered load is 1 , the achieved connectedness by maxdeg_pa is as good or better than that of sff .",
    "however , when the ratio of offered load is 0.5 , the connectedness of maxdeg_pa becomes worse than that of sff as the wavelength capacity increases .",
    "this is due to the dominating role of power - awareness in the ip model , which results in fewer logical edges with higher capacity per edge ( i.e. more light - paths per edge ) .",
    "node synthetic graph with expanding capacity when the offered load ratios are @xmath19 .",
    "]    [ [ growing - network - size ] ] growing network size + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    [ fig : ipwls ] shows the average connectedness of the ip and icn models for a growing size graph with fixed wavelength capacity ( @xmath20 ) .",
    "the results indicate that for a small network ( @xmath11 nodes ) , the connectedness is similar for all the examined algorithms .",
    "this is due to the excessive wavelength capacity compared to the graph size , which exceeds the capacity needed to achieve full mesh connectivity .",
    "therefore , increasing the number of admitted light - paths beyond @xmath21 will not increase the logical connectedness ; although , it will increase the capacity per logical edge .",
    "in contrast , for medium sized networks ( @xmath22 nodes ) , the connectedness generally drops , compared to that of smaller networks ( @xmath13 nodes ) .",
    "this is because the min / max vertex degree does not increase with the graph size .",
    "therefore , increasing the number of vertices is met by a proportional decrease in the physical reachability of each vertex . when the wavelength capacity is fixed , this also results in wavelength scarcity , which decreases the likelihood of finding a route that satisfies the wavelength continuity constraint .",
    "colors per vertex when the offered load ratios are @xmath19 . ]    additionally , when analyzing the performance of our model using synthetically generated sparse graphs ( omitted here due to shortage of space ) : it has been observed that , for the ip model , substantial power savings can be achieved for slightly poorer blocking rate compared to sff .",
    "however , for the icn model considerable power savings can be achieved for similar blocking rate as that of lcp .",
    "this is because our algorithm benefits from the consistent load - balancing advantage of lcp ; thereby , it avoids bottleneck scenarios created by sff , which only aims to minimize provisioned resources . at the same time",
    ", our algorithm achieves such load - balancing with fine tuning of path choices towards already lit paths , which can provide considerable power saving compared to lcp .",
    "the results show a clear advantage of icn / wdm over ip / wdm . as the algorithm used to generate the results is identical for both",
    ", we can state that the performance advantages of icn / wdm are due to the ability of icn to support multiple publishers per light - publication .",
    "this is enabled by the dual features of icn : naming and decoupling of content identity from location .",
    "these features are not provided by the ip architecture .",
    "furthermore , icn shows greater connectivity , thus providing higher resilience opportunities .",
    "efficient multilayer resource utilization is a success factor for future internet architectures . in this paper",
    ", we introduced a novel multilayer architecture in the form of an information - centric wdm network ( icn / wdm ) .",
    "the proposed architecture utilizes an icn pub / sub communication model to facilitate traffic aggregation based on information semantics , rather than end point location .",
    "the work is demonstrated using the pursuit architecture although the general principle applies to other icn architectures .",
    "the work makes use of common icn features such as native support of _ anycast _ as well as caching / replication functions , which leads to enhanced , power efficient , network utilization .",
    "furthermore , a novel power - aware ( pa ) algorithm has been proposed to address the trade - off between power consumption and performance .",
    "evaluation results have shown the general superiority of the icn / wdm architecture , compared to that of ip / wdm .",
    "furthermore , the results illustrate the advantages of the proposed algorithm in improving the utilization of the ip / wdm architecture .",
    "notably , the icn / wdm architecture can achieve considerably better performance using an lcp - based algorithm , for similar power consumption to that of a pa algorithm .",
    "t.  koponen , m.  chawla , b.  chun , a.  ermolinskiy , k.  h. kim , s.  shenker , and i.  stoica , `` a data - oriented ( and beyond ) network architecture , '' _ acm sigcomm computer communications review _ , vol .",
    "37 , no .  4 ,",
    "181192 , aug 2007 .",
    "g.  xylomenos , c.  ververidis , v.  siris , n.  fotiou , c.  tsilopoulos , x.  vasilakos , k.  katsaros , and g.  polyzos , `` a survey of information - centric networking research , '' _ communications surveys tutorials , ieee _ , vol .",
    "16 , no .  2 ,",
    "10241049 , feb 2014 .",
    "l.  popa , a.  ghodsi , and i.  stoica , `` http as the narrow waist of the future internet , '' in _ proc . of 9th acm sigcomm workshop on hot topics in networks , hotnets10",
    "hotnets - ix.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emacm , 2010 , pp .",
    "m.  kihl , p.  odling , c.  lagerstedt , and a.  aurelius , `` traffic analysis and characterization of internet user behavior , '' in _ proc . of int .",
    "congress on ultra modern telecommunications and control systems and workshops , icumt10 _ , oct 2010 , pp .",
    "224231 .",
    "d.  trossen , j.  riihijrvi , p.  nikander , p.  jokela , j.  kjllman , and j.  rajahalme , `` designing , implementing and evaluating a new internetworking architecture , '' _ computer commun .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "35 , no .",
    "17 , pp . 20692081 , 2012 .",
    "d.  banerjee and b.  mukherjee , `` wavelength - routed optical networks : linear formulation , resource budgeting tradeoffs , and a reconfiguration study , '' _ ieee / acm transactions on networking _ , vol .  8 , no .  5 , pp . 598607 , oct 2000 .",
    "k.  chan and t.  p. yum , `` analysis of least congested path routing in wdm lightwave networks , '' in _",
    "infocom 94 . networking for global communications . ,",
    "13th proceedings ieee _ , jun 1994 , pp .",
    "962969 vol.2 .",
    "x.  chu and b.  li , `` dynamic routing and wavelength assignment in the presence of wavelength conversion for all - optical networks , '' _ ieee / acm transactions on networking _ , vol .",
    "13 , no .  3 , pp .",
    "704715 , jun 2005 .",
    "y.  wu , l.  chiaraviglio , m.  mellia , and f.  neri , `` power - aware routing and wavelength assignment in optical networks , '' in _ optical commun .",
    "35th european conference on _ , sep 2009 , pp .",
    "a.  coiro , m.  listanti , a.  valenti , and f.  matera , `` reducing power consumption in wavelength routed networks by selective switch off of optical links , '' _ selected topics in quantum electronics , ieee journal of _ , vol .",
    "17 , no .  2 ,",
    "428436 , mar 2011 .",
    "v.  sourlas , l.  gkatzikis , p.  flegkas , and l.  tassiulas , `` autonomic cache management in information - centric networks , '' in _ network operations and management symposium ( noms ) , ieee _ , apr 2012 , pp .",
    "121129 .",
    "q.  zhao , z.  ge , j.  wang , and j.  xu , `` robust traffic matrix estimation with imperfect information : making use of multiple data sources , '' _ sigmetrics perform .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "34 , no .  1 ,",
    "133144 , jun 2006 .",
    "a.  nucci , a.  sridharan , and n.  taft , `` the problem of synthetically generating ip traffic matrices : initial recommendations , '' _ acm sigcomm computer communications review _ , vol .",
    "35 , no .  3 , pp .",
    "1932 , jul 2005 .",
    "n.  charbonneau and v.  m. vokkarane , `` static routing and wavelength assignment for multicast advance reservation in all - optical wavelength - routed wdm networks , '' _ ieee / acm transactions on networking _ , vol .",
    "20 , no .  1",
    ", pp . 114 , feb 2012 .",
    "j.  tapolcai , a.  gulys , z.  heszberger , j.  biro , p.  babarczi , and d.  trossen , `` stateless multi - stage dissemination of information : source routing revisited , '' in _ global communications conference ( globecom ) , 2012 ieee _ , dec 2012 , pp . 27972802 .",
    "l.  shi , z.  gu , l.  wei , and y.  shi , `` quantitative analysis of zipf s law on web cache , '' in _ proceedings of the third international conference on parallel and distributed processing and applications _ ,",
    "ispa05 . 1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emspringer - verlag , 2005 , pp . 845852 .",
    "d.  cavendish , a.  kolarov , and b.  sengupta , `` is it a good idea to design wdm networks to minimize the number of wavelengths used ? '' in _ communications , 2004 ieee international conference on _ , vol .  4 , jun 2004 , pp .",
    "20972101 vol.4 .",
    "s.  naiksatam , s.  figueira , s.  a. chiappari , and n.  bhatnagar , `` analyzing the advance reservation of lightpaths in lambda - grids , '' in _ cluster computing and the grid , 2005 .",
    "ccgrid 2005 .",
    "ieee international symposium on _ , vol .  2 , may 2005 , pp .",
    "985992 vol .",
    "g.  carofiglio , v.  gehlen , and d.  perino , `` experimental evaluation of memory management in content - centric networking , '' in _ communications ( icc ) , 2011 ieee international conference on _ , jun 2011 , pp . 16 .",
    "i.  kotera , r.  egawa , h.  takizawa , and h.  kobayashi , `` modeling of cache access behavior based on zipf s law , '' in _ proceedings of the 9th workshop on memory performance : dealing with applications , systems and architecture _ , ser . medea 08.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emacm , 2008 , pp .",
    "l.  breslau , p.  cao , l.  fan , g.  phillips , and s.  shenker , `` web caching and zipf - like distributions : evidence and implications , '' in _ infocom 99 .",
    "eighteenth annual joint conference of the ieee computer and communications societies . proceedings . ieee _ ,",
    "1 , mar 1999 , pp .",
    "126134 vol.1 .",
    "t.  mudge , `` power : a first class design constraint for future architectures , '' in _ high performance computing hipc 2000 _ , ser .",
    "lecture notes in computer science , m.  valero , v.  prasanna , and s.  vajapeyam , eds.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emspringer berlin heidelberg , 2000 , vol .",
    "1970 , pp .",
    ". y.  zhang , p.  chowdhury , m.  tornatore , and b.  mukherjee , `` energy efficiency in telecom optical networks , '' _ ieee communications surveys tutorials _",
    "12 , no .  4 , pp . 441458 , nov 2010 .",
    "mays f. al - naday is a researcher at the school of computer science and electronic engineering , university of essex .",
    "she received her bsc degree in communication and information engineering from the university of baghdad .",
    "she received her master s degree in computer and information networks from the university of essex , after which she has been awarded the university of essex scholarship for phd . during her phd , she joined the network convergence laboratory and worked as a researcher in number of projects , including eu one .",
    "her current research interests involve future internet architectures , information - centric networks , all - optical networks , and multilayer network architectures .",
    "n. thomos ( s02-m06-sm16 ) received the diploma and the ph.d .",
    "degrees from the electrical and computer engineering department of the aristotle university of thessaloniki , thessaloniki , greece , in 2000 and 2005 , respectively .",
    "currently he is lecturer at the university of essex , colchester , united kingdom . before that , he was senior researcher with signal processing laboratory at swiss federal institute of technology ( epfl ) , lausanne , switzerland .",
    "his research interests include network coding , multimedia communications , joint source and channel coding and distributed source coding . in 2008",
    ", he has been awarded the highly esteemed ambizione career award from swiss national science foundation targeted to prospective researchers .",
    "martin j. reed is a senior lecturer at the university of essex .",
    "he received his phd from university of essex , uk , in 1998 . after working as a research officer in the area of multimedia transmission over ip / atm networks",
    "he was appointed as a lecturer at the university of essex in 1998 .",
    "his research interests include transmission of media , including ultra - high definition video , over networks , the control of transport networks , information centric networking and network security .",
    "he has been involved in a number of epsrc , eu and industrial projects in these areas and has held a research fellowship at bt ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> information - centric networking ( icn ) facilitates content identification in networks and offers parametric representation of content semantics . </S>",
    "<S> this work , proposes an icn / wdm network architecture that uses these features to offer superior network utilization , in terms of performance and power consumption . </S>",
    "<S> the architecture introduces an icn publish / subscribe communication approach to the wavelength layer ; whereby , content is aggregated according to its popularity rank into wavelength - size groups that can be published and  subscribed to \" by multiple nodes . consequently , </S>",
    "<S> routing and wavelength assignment ( rwa ) algorithms benefit from _ </S>",
    "<S> anycast _ to identify multiple sources of aggregate content and allow optimization of the source selection of light - paths . </S>",
    "<S> a power - aware algorithm , maximum degree of connectivity ( maxdeg ) , has been developed with the objective of exploiting this flexibility to address the trade - off between power consumption and network performance . </S>",
    "<S> the algorithm is also applicable to ip architectures , albeit with less flexibility . </S>",
    "<S> evaluation results indicate the superiority of the proposed icn architecture , even when utilizing conventional routing methods , compared to its ip counterpart . </S>",
    "<S> the results further highlight the performance improvement achieved by the proposed algorithm , compared to conventional rwa methods such as shortest - path first fit ( sff ) .    </S>",
    "<S> = 1000    information - centric networking , traffic engineering , multilayer network architecture , routing and wavelength assignment . </S>"
  ]
}