{
  "article_text": [
    "the experimental research devoted to the detection of gravitational waves is nowadays entering a critical phase . after having accomplished a first stage of successful operation , the largest ground - based interferometric detectors are presently undergoing a major technical upgrade towards a tenfold sensitivity improvement over the whole detection band @xcite .",
    "hopefully , this will lead to the first signal detection within the next few years , thus triggering the beginning of gravitational - wave astronomy .    in those detectors ,",
    "laser interferometry is used to measure the relative displacement of large , massive suspended mirrors playing the role of gravitational - field probes : the test masses @xcite . in the central and most sensitive region of the detection band ,",
    "around 200 hz , the advanced virgo and advanced ligo interferometers will be limited by the thermal noise of the mirror high - reflection coatings .",
    "also the future einstein telescope @xcite , planned to be one order of magnitude more sensitive than advanced detectors , will be affected by this noise source as well .",
    "the reduction of coating thermal noise is of fundamental importance . for gravitational - wave interferometers , lowering such noise would yield an increase of the detection horizon ( i.e. the radius of the accessible volume of the universe ) and hence of the expected detection rate .",
    "more generally , lowering the coating thermal noise would be highly beneficial also for other precision experiments using high - finesse optical cavities , such as frequency standards for laser stabilization @xcite , quantum computing devices @xcite and optomechanical resonators @xcite .",
    "thermal noise arises from fluctuations of the mirror surface under the random motion of particles in coatings and substrates @xcite .",
    "its amplitude is determined by the amount of internal friction within the mirror materials , via the fluctuation - dissipation theorem @xcite : the higher the loss , the higher the thermal noise level . at the same time , since the coating loss is usually several orders of magnitude larger than the substrate one , the thermal noise of the thin high - reflection coating turns out to be largely dominant over that of the thick underlying substrate .",
    "therefore , since the first works that addressed this relevant source of noise @xcite , a considerable research effort has been committed to the investigation and the reduction of the mechanical loss of optical coatings .",
    "the high - reflection coatings of gravitational - wave interferometers are bragg reflectors composed of alternate layers of ion - beam - sputtered ( ibs ) silica ( sio@xmath0 ) and tantala ( ta@xmath0o@xmath1 ) , as low- and high - refractive - index materials , respectively .",
    "the historical reason for this choice is the low optical absorption of tantala at the typical wavelength of operation of the detectors ( @xmath2 nm ) , as the use of this material allowed reducing the coating absorption down to about 1 ppm @xcite . from the point of view of the mechanics , however , tantala proved to be substantially more dissipative than silica @xcite , making it the dominant source of loss in the coating stack .",
    "eventually , the coating loss was remarkably improved by applying a titania ( tio@xmath0 ) doping to tantala @xcite .",
    "this procedure , developed by the laboratoire des matriaux avancs ( lma ) in lyon , significantly decreased the mechanical loss of the high - index material of the stack .",
    "moreover , it proved to be beneficial to its optical performances as well @xcite . very recently , for example , we measured an average absorption of 0.14 @xmath3 0.05 ppm on the central area ( @xmath4 160 mm ) of a coating deposited on a test mass of advanced ligo . in the meantime , an optimization technique to dilute the loss contribution of the high - index material has also been developed @xcite , further decreasing the resulting coating thermal noise @xcite .    in this paper",
    ", we will present the results of mechanical characterizations of state - of - the - art coatings of titania - doped tantala and silica , carried out at the lma since 2009 .",
    "this activity is part of a wide series of follow - up quality checks ( surface quality , absorption and scattering among others ) of the optics manufactured at the lma , especially for advanced gravitational - wave interferometers . within this frame , we measured the mechanical loss and the internal residual stress of a large series of samples with different features .",
    "coatings of assorted thickness ( ranging from few hundreds of nanometers to several microns ) and morphology have been characterized on substrates of different geometries . because of the large number and variety of the samples , our results constitute an important database and set the basis for further research and development of coatings of high optical quality and low mechanical loss .",
    "besides , our measurements reveal the presence of an excess loss whose origin is still not clearly understood .",
    "a possible interpretation of this phenomenon will be addressed , and the consequences of our results will be discussed .",
    "in order to characterize the intrinsic loss of several high - reflection optical coatings , we applied the resonance method @xcite on a large set of different mechanical resonators .",
    "for each of these samples , we measured the ring - down time @xmath5 of several vibrational modes , before and after the deposition of a coating stack .",
    "the calculation of the coating mechanical loss then follows straightforwardly from the measurements , provided that the the _ dilution factor _ @xmath6  the ratio of the elastic energy of the coating to the elastic energy of the coated substrate  is known @xcite .",
    "this coefficient is critical since it accounts for the fact that the energy loss of the coated resonator is diluted by the relatively lossless substrate . to compute this dilution factor",
    ", we performed a mechanical finite - element simulation of the coated samples .",
    "we also used these simulations to identify the vibrational modes measured in our setups .    in parallel",
    ", we used an interferometric microscope to measure the curvature induced by coating internal stress in the coated samples . by associating each value of loss to a radius of curvature",
    ", we could study a potential correlation with mechanical loss . to determine the coating morphology",
    ", we also carried out a series of analyses with a transmission electron microscope .",
    "a detailed description of our samples , experimental setups , measurement techniques and simulations is reported in the following .",
    "the results of the measurements are presented in section [ secexpres ] .",
    "the large majority of our samples is constituted by fused - silica cantilever blades provided by heraeus and optically polished by gooch and housego and by htm , having the following dimensions : 5 mm x 42 mm , for a nominal thickness of 110 @xmath7 m .",
    "high - purity fused silica ( suprasil 311 ) was chosen because of its very low loss at room temperature @xcite , which makes it very well suited for coating characterization .",
    "these cantilevers are welded on a corner to a cylindrical clamping block of the same material , used to suspend the sample .",
    "the welding has been performed by hand , with a hydrogen torch , by wisepower .",
    "the other few substrates are fused - silica disks ( @xmath4 3 \" ) of corning 7980 of a nominal thickness of 2.54 mm , micro - polished ( @xmath8 flatness , roughness @xmath9 nm rms ) on both surfaces by general optics .",
    "the purpose of such high - quality polishing is to test the coatings on substrates with specifications as close as possible to those of substrates of gravitational - wave interferometers .",
    "the high - reflection coatings are stacks of titania - doped tantala ( tio@xmath0ta@xmath0o@xmath1 ) and silica for operation at @xmath10 nm ( except for only two samples designed for @xmath11 = 1529 nm ) . in the doped - tantala layers ,",
    "the atomic ratio of ti to ta is approximately 1/3 , as measured through rutherford backscattering spectrometry .",
    "the thickness of each layer is either one - quarter of the laser wavelength ( i. e. the typical quarter - wave coating ) or optimized @xcite . in the latter case , the thickness of each doped - tantala layer",
    "is reduced to decrease the loss of the stack and thus its expected thermal noise amplitude , but the overall optical performances are preserved . nonetheless , even in the optimized configuration , the coating stack consists in a periodic structure of doped tantala and silica pairs , or ` doublets ' , with the exception of the terminal layers ( the bottom one is of doped tantala and slightly thicker , while the top one is the thinnest of the stack and is of silica for protective purposes ) .",
    "one example of such coating is the one developed by the lma for the end test masses of the over - coupled fabry - perot arm cavities of advanced ligo and advanced virgo @xcite : it features a measured transmissivity of @xmath12 ppm and a measured absorption of @xmath9 ppm , having at the same time nearly the minimum expected thermal noise achievable for this given high reflectivity .    a small subset of substrates are also coated with anti - reflection stacks , for operation at the same @xmath13 .",
    "in such coatings , whose transmissivity is highly sensitive to thickness errors , the number @xmath14 of alternating layers is reduced to the minimum ( usually @xmath15 ) , and the design of each layer thickness is only driven by the desired optical performances .",
    "another subset of substrates is coated with a quarter - wave single layer ( _ mono - layer _ coating ) either of titania - doped tantala or silica of varying thickness , in order to measure the intrinsic loss of each coating material composing the stacks .    finally , some substrates have been coated on both surfaces ( either with stacks or with mono - layers ) in order to change the resulting internal stress of the coated samples themselves .",
    "the complete list of the samples used in this work can be found in the tables of section [ secexpres ] .",
    "all the coatings presented here have been deposited at the lma through ibs with the same deposition parameters ( source settings , substrate temperature , etc . ) , into a large ( @xmath16 m@xmath17 ) custom - developed coating chamber .",
    "this chamber has been built specifically to coat twin pairs of large mirrors ( each one having @xmath4 350 mm and being 200 mm thick ) for gravitational - wave interferometers , with very high thickness uniformity over a large surface @xcite . as part of the standard post - deposition process , all the coated samples underwent in - air annealing at @xmath18c over 10 hours .",
    "this is necessary to decrease both the internal stress and the optical absorption of the coatings .",
    "all the measurements of curvature and mechanical loss presented hereafter have been carried out on annealed samples .",
    "we used a custom optical profiler developed by micromap , shown on fig .",
    "[ figmicromap ] , to measure the roc of the annealed coated cantilever blades .",
    "the instrument is a mirau interferometer designed specifically for the characterization of large optics , and is equipped with remotely driven micrometric translation stages on the three axes and with manually tunable micrometric screws for tilting ( roll and pitch ) the sample support plate . with standard settings ( monochromatic light at @xmath19 nm , phase - shifting interferometry ) ,",
    "the surface of the sample probed by the laser beam is typically less than 1 mm@xmath20 .",
    "( color online ) micromap optical profiler used for the measurement of the roc of coated cantilever blades.,scaledwidth=50.0% ]     ( color online ) scheme of the technique used to measure the roc of coated cantilever blades .",
    "see section [ secroc ] for more details.,scaledwidth=75.0% ]    the measurement technique is shown on fig .",
    "[ figroc ] .",
    "the longitudinal axis of the cantilever blade ( roughly aligned along the abscissa of the micromap translation stage frame ) is swept with steps of a few mm , and at each position the distance to the sample ( the @xmath21 coordinate ) is adjusted with steps of 5 @xmath7 m to find the focal plane .",
    "once the displacements @xmath22 and @xmath23 are known , the roc @xmath24 of the sample can be readily computed : @xmath25 as an estimation of the sample roc is obtained for each step along @xmath26 , an average roc with its standard deviation can be calculated .",
    "we used two distinct setups , both based on the resonance method , to perform ring - down measurements of all the cantilever blades and disks .",
    "the two setups only differ in the system adopted to suspend the samples . in the first apparatus , a clamping system was used to suspend the cantilever blades from the base block . in the second one , a system named gentle nodal suspension @xcite ( gens ) was used to suspend the disks from the center . both systems",
    "are shown in fig .",
    "[ figsuspensions ] . in the gens system ,",
    "a sphere provides a mechanically stable support for the disc to be measured , thus minimizing its contact surface .",
    "therefore , the system allows to avoid the clamping of samples , suppresses any potential additional source of damping and exhibits a high reproducibility of the results @xcite .",
    "all the measurements have been performed in vacuum enclosures at @xmath27 mbar , to prevent residual - gas damping .    in both setups , the vibrational modes @xmath28 of the resonator",
    "are excited with an ac voltage ( ranging from 0.2 to 3 kvpp , depending on the sample ) applied through a comb - shaped capacitor @xcite placed a few millimeters away from the surface of the sample , in order to avoid any contact . in turn",
    ", each mode @xmath29 is excited well above its ambient noise level , then the excitation is turned off , leaving the resonator free to ring down . the amplitude of the resonating mode is continuously read out through an optical - lever system , where a he - ne laser is reflected at the surface of the sample towards a quadrant photodiode used as a displacement sensor . a custom - developed software based on labview",
    "is then used to :    ( i ) : :    acquire the signal of the photodiode ( ii ) : :    perform its fast fourier transform and filter it with a narrow ( 1 hz )    band - pass filter centered around the mode frequency ( iii ) : :    compute the exponential fit of the envelope    @xmath30 of the free decay    amplitude of the filtered signal ( iv ) : :    calculate the ring - down time @xmath31 and the    corresponding loss angle    @xmath32 .",
    "typically , we measured three to five modes per sample on cantilever blades , in the 10@xmath33 - 10@xmath17 hz band , and five modes on disks , sampling the 10@xmath20 - 10@xmath34 band .",
    "as the coating loss is expected to be frequency independent @xcite , the loss angles @xmath35 of each sample are averaged to yield a measured loss @xmath36 with its standard deviation .",
    "a jeol 2010f transmission electron microscope of the centre lyonnais de microscopie ( clym ) has been operated at 200 kv to analyze the structure of a coating stack , and in particular the interface between the layers . to this purpose",
    ", a thin transverse section of a stack has been extracted from a test sample using a focused - ion - beam ( fib ) setup ( zeiss nvision 40 ) .",
    "the preparation of the sample is depicted in fig .",
    "[ figclymfib ] .",
    "this sample has then been used for scanning and transmission electron microscopy ( sem and tem , respectively ) , energy dispersive x - ray spectrometry ( edx ) and electron energy loss spectroscopy ( eels ) .",
    "sem images of the preparation of a thin transverse section of a coating stack through fib etching : a ) chemical - vapor deposition of a 1 @xmath7m - thick protective layer of carbon over the sample to be extracted ; b ) etching of the coating section by means of a high - energy beam of gallium ions ; c ) extraction of the section with a tungsten micro - manipulator ( tungsten coating for tip welding ) ; d ) welding of the section to a copper grating via a carbon coating ; e ) thinning of the section by means of the high - energy ion beam ; f ) front view of the thin coating section ( bright : tio@xmath0ta@xmath0o@xmath1 layers ) .",
    "courtesy of the clym.,scaledwidth=100.0% ]      the calculation of the coating loss requires the knowledge of the dilution factor , @xmath37 with @xmath38 and @xmath39 being the elastic energy stored in the coating layers and in the substrate , respectively .",
    "preferably , we numerically computed these energies with the finite - element software ansys . alternatively , a simple analytic model is also available @xcite .",
    "a comparison between the finite - element simulations and the analytic model is presented in section [ secexpres ] .",
    "table [ tabsimpar ] lists the parameters used in our simulations . to model the coated samples , we used three - dimensional structural elements ( _ solid186 _ ) for the substrates and two - dimensional structural elements ( _ shell281 _ ) for the coatings .",
    "exemplary meshed models are shown on fig .",
    "[ figsimmodels ] .",
    ".[tabsimpar ] parameters used in the finite - element simulations for bulk and coating materials : density @xmath40 , young s modulus @xmath41 , poisson ratio @xmath42 , shear modulus @xmath43 and refractive index @xmath44 at @xmath45 nm . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in summary , by looking at the results of tables [ tab2stacksblades ] and [ tabstacksdisks ] , it is clear that the residual stress is correlated with the measured excess loss .",
    "however , our attempts to build up a relatively simple model of the excess loss ( like @xmath46 or @xmath47 ) proved to be inconclusive because of the poor quality of the fitting , yielding very large uncertainties on the parameters @xmath48 and @xmath49 . certainly , the loss excess does not have a trivial explanation .",
    "its unexpected complexity calls for further tests and deeper analyses which seems to exceed the boundaries of this present work .",
    "we used the fib sample from a coating stack with @xmath50 and @xmath51 for the analyses .",
    "the sem and tem imagery revealed a regular structure with no appreciable defect . according to the images ,",
    "the thickness of the coating blade penetrated by the electron - beam probe is @xmath52 nm .",
    "an edx cartography showed a sharp transition between the layers , once the background noise neglected .",
    "some exemplary pictures are shown on fig .",
    "[ figclymtem ] .",
    "analyses of a coating stack : a ) sem image ( bright : tio@xmath0ta@xmath0o@xmath1 layers ) ; b ) bright - field tem image ( dark : tio@xmath0ta@xmath0o@xmath1 layers ) ; c)-e ) from left to right , edx cartography of the confinement of si , ta and ti within 5 layers .",
    "courtesy of the clym.,scaledwidth=100.0% ]    for a more detailed analysis of the interface , we used the eels data collected from eighteen consecutive line scans at the edge of two layers , as shown on fig .",
    "[ figeelsscans ] .",
    "the line scans have been performed with an electron - beam probe of nominal width of 1 nm , separated by 1 nm steps along the direction perpendicular to the layer thickness .",
    "the acquired signal was integrated to yield a single spectrum per line scan .",
    "two additional reference spectra have been acquired in the middle of a silica and of a titania - doped tantala layer , respectively . in these spectra",
    ", we took the k edge of oxygen ( k - o ) in sio@xmath0 and in ta@xmath0o@xmath1 for quantification in the next analysis .",
    "an additional spectrum for the ti - l@xmath53 line has been acquired separately on a rutile powder , to have a reference for the tio@xmath0 signature in the spectrum of the titania - doped tantala layer .",
    "finally , a linear combination of the three reference spectra was fitted to each line scan to quantify the content of sio@xmath0 and ta@xmath0o@xmath1 at the interface .",
    "all the spectra used in the analysis ( raw line scans , line scans with background noise subtracted , fitting spectra ) are shown on fig .",
    "[ figeelsscans ] .",
    "( color online ) normalized atomic ratios ( from fitting coefficients of k - o edges in eels spectra , in arbitrary units ) of sio@xmath0 ( blue ) and ta@xmath0o@xmath1 ( red ) , as a function of the position across an interface in a stack with @xmath50 and @xmath51.,scaledwidth=75.0% ]    the final results of the eels analysis is presented on fig .",
    "[ figeelsconcentr ] . here",
    ", the normalized amplitude of the fitting coefficients of k - o edges in sio@xmath0 and ta@xmath0o@xmath1 are shown as a function of the position in the interface ( the redundant information from the tio@xmath0 coefficients is neglected ) .",
    "the graph indicates clearly that there is a gradient of species concentration at the interface between layers .",
    "looking at the spatial width of the gradient , the interface appears to be @xmath54 nm thick . once corrected from the systematic enlargement experienced by the beam in penetrating the sample , the actual estimated thickness of the interface",
    "is reduced to @xmath55 nm at most .",
    "if our analysis is correct , this value is rather large .",
    "it would correspond to a few percent of each layer thickness , yielding ( for @xmath56 ) a consistent fraction of mixed material in the coating .",
    "however , this value is compatible with a tilt of the coating section of about 8@xmath57 with respect to the impinging beam , so the accuracy of our measurements appears to be limited by the intrinsic configuration of the experimental setup .",
    "further measurements will be needed to address the issue of the interface thickness definitively .",
    "our findings indicate that the loss of mono - layers is independent of the coating thickness and of the stress of the sample . furthermore , the loss from the interface with the substrate is eventually negligible .",
    "the average measured loss of silica mono - layers is @xmath58 , in agreement with the outcome of independent measurements .",
    "the average measured loss of titania - doped tantala mono - layers is @xmath59 , which , for reasons yet to be understood , is in contrast with the result from independent experiments .",
    "the synthesis concerning our results from stacks is far more complex .",
    "we measured several thin cantilever blades , with a single or a double coating , and a few thicker disks with a single coating .",
    "a clear outcome is that the measured loss is larger than expected ( provided that the expectation is correct , of course ) , though the cause of this loss excess is still not known .",
    "double - coated cantilever blades and disks show similar results , but the loss excess is smallest when measured on disks .    in the attempt to understand the origin of this phenomenon",
    ", we looked first for the presence of an unknown dissipative mechanism at the interface between layers .",
    "then , pushed by some new unexpected evidence from our results , we tested also the hypothesis of a stress - dependent loss .",
    "unfortunately , we could not conclusively prove any of these speculations .",
    "our tem analyses could not determine unequivocally the steepness of the interface between the layers , though we know now that it should be 5 nm wide at the most .",
    "if any , the interface loss would be only a tiny fraction ( between 1 and 1% , depending on the sample ) of the observed excess loss .",
    "on the other hand , we could not find any simple model to satisfactorily describe the dependence of the excess loss on stress .",
    "regrettably , it seems that we can not proceed deeper in our analysis with the data presently in our possession .      in this work we presented the results of several years of coating characterization carried out at lma",
    "this database comprehends results from a large variety of titania - doped tantala and silica coatings of different thickness , number of layers and thickness ratios .",
    "the coatings have been characterized on fused - silica substrates of different geometries on different suspension systems .",
    "the results for mono - layer coatings appear well assessed , globally .",
    "the measured loss of each material is constant with respect to the specificity of the samples ( thickness , residual stress ) , as one would expect for an intrinsic loss mechanism in the material .    for coating stacks",
    ", we could not unequivocally prove the existence of a lossy interface of mixed materials between the layers .",
    "nevertheless , our data demonstrate the existence of an excess loss which was totally unexpected from a linear combination of measured mono - layer loss .",
    "moreover , this excess loss appears to be related to the residual stress inside the samples .",
    "some of the coatings presented here have the same design as those deposited on the input ( @xmath50 , @xmath51 ) and the output ( @xmath60 , @xmath61 ) test masses of advanced ligo and advanced virgo , so our measurements  which are their most up - to - date characterization  have a particular relevance for the noise budget of those detectors .",
    "though the origin of the excess loss still remains unknown , it is possible to draw some conclusions from our analysis . from now on ,",
    "the stress inside the coating should be considered as a relevant parameter for the characterization of mechanical loss . according to our results , the measured loss is closest to the expectation if the coating stress is not relaxed , on relatively stiff substrates .",
    "this configuration surely does have the advantage of being closer to the actual operation condition of coatings in interferometric gravitational - wave detectors , which currently use very thick ( 20 cm ) substrates .",
    "of course , for coating characterization , the substrate thickness should be determined as a trade - off between the need to keep the coating stressed and the requirement of minimizing the dilution factor to enhance the effect of the coating loss .    finally ,",
    "we hope that this work might help in developing a new protocol of mechanical - loss characterization and possibly trigger new studies on the unsolved issues we raised .",
    "the authors acknowledge t. epicier and b. van de moortele of the clym for the electron microscope analyses , and are grateful to the labex lyon institute of origins ( grant no .",
    "anr-10-labx-0066 ) of the universit de lyon for its financial support within the program `` investissements davenir '' ( grant no .",
    "anr-11-idex-0007 ) of the french government operated by the national research agency ( anr ) .",
    "r. weiss , electromagnetically coupled broadband gravitational antenna , massachusetts institute of technology technical report , https://dcc.ligo.org/public/0038/p720002/001/p720002-00.pdf[ligo-p720002-00-r ] ( 1972 ) .",
    "t. kessler , c. hagemann , c. grebing , t. legero , u. sterr , f. riehle , m. j. martin , l. chen and j. ye , a sub-40-mhz - linewidth laser based on a silicon single - crystal optical cavity , nature photonics 6 , 687 ( 2012 ) .",
    "r. flaminio , j. franc , c. michel , n. morgado , l. pinard and b. sassolas , a study of coating mechanical and optical losses in view of reducing mirror thermal noise in gravitational wave detectors , classical and quantum gravity 27 , 084030 ( 2010 ) .",
    "j. agresti , g. castaldi , r. de salvo , v. galdi , v. pierro , and i. m. pinto , optimized multilayer dielectric mirror coatings for gravitational wave interferometers , proceedings of spie 6286 , 628608 ( 2006 ) .              c. michel , n. morgado , l. pinard , b. sassolas , r. bonnand , j. degallaix , d. forest , r. flaminio and g. billingsley , realization of low - loss mirrors with sub - nanometer flatness for future gravitational wave detectors , proceedings of spie 8550 , 85501p ( 2012 ) .",
    "e. cesarini , m. lorenzini , e. campagna , f. martelli , f. piergiovanni , f. vetrano , g. losurdo and g. cagnoli , a `` gentle '' nodal suspension for measurements of the acoustic attenuation in materials , review of scientific instruments 80 , 053904 ( 2009 ) .        c. comtet et al .",
    ", reduction of tantala mechanical losses in ta2o5/sio2 coatings for the next generation of virgo and ligo interferometric gravitational waves detectors , proceedings of the 42th rencontres de moriond  gravitational waves and experimental gravity , la thuile , italy , 11 - 18 march , 2007 ( to be published ) , http://hal.in2p3.fr/in2p3-00177578/document[in2p3-00177578 ] .",
    "m. r. abernathy , j. hough , i. w. martin , s. rowan , m. oyen , c. linn and j. e. faller , investigation of the young s modulus and thermal expansion of amorphous titania - doped tantala films , applied optics 53 , 3196 ( 2014 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of mechanical characterizations of many different high - quality optical coatings made of ion - beam - sputtered titania - doped tantala and silica , developed originally for interferometric gravitational - wave detectors . </S>",
    "<S> our data show that in multi - layer stacks ( like high - reflection bragg mirrors , for example ) the measured coating dissipation is systematically higher than the expectation and is correlated with the stress condition in the sample . </S>",
    "<S> this has a particular relevance for the noise budget of current _ advanced _ gravitational - wave interferometers , and , more generally , for any experiment involving thermal - noise - limited optical cavities . </S>"
  ]
}