{
  "article_text": [
    "today , eta carinae is a binary system , composed of a @xmath2 primary star with an estimated age of @xmath3 myr , although the current copious mass loss rate of @xmath4/yr , might indicate an older age , possibly on the verge of turning into a wolf - rayet star @xcite .",
    "the primary is orbited by a 30 presumably main - sequence star in a 15.46au orbit with an eccentricity of about 0.9 @xcite .    in the mid 19-th century eta carinae experienced a giant eruption .",
    "evidence for this is still visible in its surrounding nebula @xcite . during this event it outshone any star in the sky except sirius @xcite .",
    "there is no satisfactory scenario that explains the copious mass loss during the 19th century giant eruption , and there is no ready explanation for the at least 2 magnitude bolometric brightening of the object in the @xmath5 years before the great eruption @xcite .",
    "we propose that both are related , and caused by the eventual merger of a massive close binary , which was triggered by gravitational interaction with a third star in a wide orbit .",
    "this third component became eta carinae s binary companion , after the merger event .",
    "this model has a number of attractive characteristics and interesting consequences for other massive triples to produce objects like eta carinae .",
    "eta carinae is extraordinary in many respects .",
    "the system is often referred to as a supernova impostor , and possible candidates that may have met a similar fate include sn1954j @xcite , v838 mon , sn2009ip @xcite , sn1961v @xcite , and @xmath6 scorpius @xcite .",
    "the comparison with the outburst in sn2009ip @xcite may be particularly important in understanding the diversity in spectral properties of eruptions in luminous blue variables in general @xcite .",
    "the high mass and high velocity of the great eruption of eta carinae and the outburst in sn2009ip may then have a similar origin , possibly resembling that of a common envelope event @xcite .",
    "these events are referred to as `` mergerburst '' by @xcite .",
    "supernova impostor ptf11iqb was initially classified as a type sn ii - n @xcite but with weaker pre - supernova mass loss , as seen in sne ii - l and ii - p , but was later characterised as an event similar to eta carinae @xcite .",
    "similarly , the ngc  300 ot2008 - 1 event was suggested to be a scaled down version of the same process that drove the great eruption in eta carinae @xcite .",
    "potential future candidates include hd75821 , hd167263 and hd135240 @xcite , and the circumstellar nebular r4 has characteristics of having experienced a similar binary merger @xcite .",
    "several of today s parameters of eta carinae are well constrained by the observations , but what initiated the great eruption and how the system looked like before this event is actively debated among astronomers . in this paper",
    "we aim at constraining the parameters and the events that led to the giant eruption , but we start constraining some of the current observables . for example , to avoid violation of the eddington limit for eta carina s luminosity ( @xmath7 ) during its great eruption , its mass must be @xmath8@xcite .",
    "the star has a large wind mass loss rate and enhanced atmospheric n and he abundances and reduced c and o abundances .",
    "this indicates that it is already in an advanced stage of core - hydrogen burning and has lost quite a lot of mass by its strong wind and eruptions .",
    "this also points to a high initial mass , possibly well in excess of 200 @xcite .",
    "we propose here the possibility that a third star in a relatively wide orbit sparked the event , and discuss the physics of the ejection process in this model .",
    "also if our model would finally not be the one that explains all the chanacteristics of eta car , still and evolution as discribed and modelled here is expected to happen not rarely in nature .",
    "hierarchical triples are common among massive stars @xcite , and the orbital parameters required for the proposed scenario to work appear to be rather common .",
    "a triple origin of the great eruption has been suggested before by @xcite , in which an exchange in a dynamically unstable triple would have initiated the event , and by @xcite who argued that an accretion disk around a tertiary neutron star would have sparked the great eruption .    according to our scenario , eta carinae",
    "was born a hierarchical triple , in which a tight inner binary star is orbited by a tertiary star in a wide orbit .",
    "the inner binary system could have been composed of a @xmath9 primary star with an @xmath1040 companion in a rather tight @xmath11au orbit . by the time of the merger",
    ", the primary has lost some 1020 in a dense stellar wind . a third companion in a relatively wide orbit drives the inner binary , via the lidov - kozai mechanism @xcite to a state of tidal evolution followed by coalescence .",
    "a strong interaction between two stars has been demonstrated to be able to effectively drive a massive outflow similar to that observed in eta carinae @xcite .",
    "a similar model in which two main - sequence stars coalesce , was presented by @xcite .",
    "kato based his idea on the model by @xcite for v838 monocerotis .",
    "other binary merger models are those for v1309 scorpius and v4332 sagittarii @xcite . due to",
    "the large distance , imaging of the ejecta in these cases is not feasable , except for v838 mon which appears to be rather assymetric @xcite .",
    "the lightcurves of some of these potential merger events show characteristics very similar to that of the great eruption in eta carniae @xcite .",
    "the great eruptions in eta carina ( but also of v838 mon ) appears to have occurred near the pericenter of the current binary system @xcite . as we will discuss in ",
    "[ sect : discussion ] this is consistent with the model we discuss here . in our case",
    "the pericenter passage of the tertiary star initiates the merger of the inner binary system , leading to the first great eruption of 1838 .",
    "the mass loss and associated velocity assymmetry induced upon the binary merger causes the very wide and eccentric outer orbit to shrink to its present size . at the time of the second periastron passage in 1843 we expect the merger product still to have been a quite extended star , such that the new secondary collided with its outer layers , causing the large 1843 eruption .",
    "the periastron passage of the outer companion at the time of the merger , and therefore at the time of the great 1843 eruption , is thus a natural consequence of our simulations , independently of the observations .",
    "if certain conditions are met , the resulting binary system will resemble eta carinae . in this paper",
    "we discuss the conditions required for the scenario to work , and argue that this model may provide a plausible explanation for a number of curious observables for the eta carinae system .",
    "we will discuss the evolution of the triple system in three phases a , b and c , which we relate to phases in the observed evolution of eta car .",
    "the parameters describing the system are indicated with the appropriate superscripts for the conditions upon birth ( a ) , the situation just before roche - lobe overflow in 1838 ( b ) , and after the merger is completed ( c ) .",
    "at the age of 0.11 myr , the @xmath12 and 30 stars have radii as large as 15  20 and 4  9 respectively . with an orbit separation of 70400",
    ", these stars will experience strong tidal interactions when the eccentricity grows to @xmath13 . as a result of such interaction the binary circularizes , the rotation of the two stars synchronizes .",
    "the tidal energy that is dissipated in the stellar envelope gives rise to a dramatic stellar wind from the primary star , until the two stars eventaly engage in a common envelope @xcite .",
    "a high eccentricity can be induced by a third body via the lidov - kozai @xcite effect .",
    "the rate at which this drives the growth of the eccentricity of the inner orbit can be calculated from secular perturbation theory @xcite .",
    "the time scale of the secular growth can be comparable to the orbital period of the inner binary .",
    "the growth of the inner eccentricity is particularly rapid when the triple is barely dynamically stable @xcite .",
    "it is in this range of parameter space that the strongest interactions are expected , and collisions may occur .",
    "it is important to notice , as we will show in the next section , that the tidal interaction may , already for many decades prior to the merger , induce a much enhanced stellar wind from the primary star , leading to a loss of more than 10 prior to the merger ( see fig.[fig : dldt ] ) .",
    "we now will quantitatively study the evolution of the triple - star model .      to quantify the orbital evolution of eta carina before the great eruption in terms of the triple star model",
    "we follow the dynamical , stellar and tidal evolution of the triple system .",
    "we adopted the astronomical multipurpose software environment ( amuse for short * ? ? ? * ) ) for this integration , by coupling the various components and integrating the coupled system .",
    "gravity was solved using the huayno direct @xmath14-body integrator @xcite .",
    "energy in the dynamical simulations is preserved to better than @xmath15 with respect to the initial energy of the system , which is sufficient for a reliable integration @xcite .",
    "tidal evolution was incorporated for the two inner stars , but not for the tertiary , using the tidal dissipation routine in amuse , which is based on ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also @xcite ) . for stellar evolution",
    "we adopted the mesa henyey stellar evolution code @xcite .",
    "all stars are assumed to be born with an angular frequency of @xmath16 .",
    "each time step we calculate the amount of energy dissipated in the tidal interaction .    in the amuse script",
    "each of the three numerical solvers for stellar evolution , tidal evolution and gravitational dynamics is run subsequently , switching between them after every outer initial orbital period and output was generated every 100 outer orbital periods .",
    "a stopping condition was used to detect roche - lobe overflow or a dynamical instability .    in the event loop",
    "we first evolve all stars to the next time . in this step",
    "we apply the mass loss calculated for the tidal interaction from the previous step .",
    "we then perform the tidal evolution and recalculate the orbital elements and cartesian coordinates of the three stars . here",
    "we assumed that the argument of periastron and the mean anomaly are not affected by the tidal evolution .",
    "we finally integrate the gravitational dynamics of the triple system using the direct @xmath14-body code .    in table.[tab :",
    "dynamicalmodels ] we present an overview of initial conditions adopted in this experiment .",
    "we generally started with two inner stars of @xmath17 and @xmath18 in a @xmath19au orbit with an eccentricity of @xmath20 .",
    "the 30 outer star orbits the inner binary in an @xmath21au orbit with an eccentricity of @xmath22 at an inclination of @xmath23",
    ". we also performed simulations with a @xmath24 and a @xmath25 inner primary star or with an eccentricity of the outer orbit of @xmath26 and @xmath27au , with qualitatively gave the same results , although the moment of roche - lobe overflow varies somewhat .                                                                        , j. , hamuy , m. , antezana , r. , gonzalez , l. , lopez , p. , silva , s. , folatelli , g. , iturra , d. , cartier , r. , forster , f. , marchi , s. , rojas , a. , pignata , g. , conuel , b. , reichart , d. , ivarsen , k. , haislip , j. , crain , a. , foster , d. , nysewander , m. , lacluyze , a. 2009 , central bureau electronic telegrams , 1928 , 1      , a.  s. , pasechnik , a.  v. , manset , n. , carciofi , a.  c. , rivinius , t. , tefl , s. , gvaramadze , v.  v. , ribeiro , j. , fernando , a. , garrel , t. , knapen , j.  h. , buil , c. , heathcote , b. , pollmann , e. , mauclaire , b. , thizy , o. , martin , j. , zharikov , s.  v. , okazaki , a.  t. , gandet , t.  l. , eversberg , t. , reinecke , n. 2013 , , 766 , 119            , j. , levitan , d. , howell , a. , thomas , r.  c. , nugent , p. , sullivan , m. , kasliwal , m. , ofek , e.  o. , quimby , r. , ben - ami , s. , xu , d. , arcavi , i. , gal - yam , a. , cenko , c.  b. , li , w. , filippenko , a.  v. 2011 , the astronomer s telegram , 3510 , 1                      , a. , prieto , j.  l. , walborn , n.  r. , smith , n. , bianco , f.  b. , chornock , r. , welch , d.  l. , howell , d.  a. , huber , m.  e. , foley , r.  j. , fong , w. , sinnott , b. , bond , h.  e. , smith , r.  c. , toledo , i. , minniti , d. , mandel , k. 2012 , , 482 , 375    , h. , de koter , a. , de mink , s.  e. , dunstall , p.  r. , evans , c.  j. , henault - brunet , v. , maiz apellaniz , j. , ramirez - agudelo , o.  h. , taylor , w.  d. , walborn , n.  r. , clark , j.  s. , crowther , p.  a. , herrero , a. , gieles , m. , langer , n. , lennon , d.  j. , vink , j.  s. 2012 , arxiv e - prints                , n. , mauerhan , j.  c. , cenko , s.  b. , kasliwal , m.  m. , silverman , j.  m. , filippenko , a.  v. , gal - yam , a. , clubb , k.  i. , graham , m.  l. , leonard , d.  c. , horst , j.  c. , williams , g.  g. , andrews , j.  e. , kulkarni , s.  r. , nugent , p. , sullivan , m. , maguire , k. , xu , d. , ben - ami , s. 2015 , arxiv e - prints"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the events that led to the giant eruption of eta carinae , and find that the mid - nineteenth century ( in 1838 - 1843 ) giant mass - loss outburst has the characteristics of being produced by the merger event of a massive close binary , triggered by the gravitational interaction with a massive third companion star , which is the current binary companion in the eta carinae system . </S>",
    "<S> we come to this conclusion by a combination of theoretical arguments supported by computer simulations using the astrophysical multipurpose software environment . according to this model </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath0 present primary star of the highly eccentric eta carinae binary system is the product of this merger , and its @xmath1 companion originally was the third star in the system .    in our model </S>",
    "<S> the homunculus nebula was produced by an extremely enhanced stellar wind , energized by tidal energy dissipation prior to the merger , which enormously boosted the radiation - driven wind mass - loss . </S>",
    "<S> the current orbital plane is then aligned with the equatorial plane of the homunculus , and the symmetric lobes are roughly aligned with the argument of periastron of the current eta carina binary . </S>",
    "<S> the merger itself then occurred in 1838 , which resulted in a massive asymmetric outflow in the equatorial plane of the homunculus . </S>",
    "<S> the 1843 outburst can in our model be attributed to the subsequent encounter when the companion star ( once the outer most star in the triple system ) plunges through the bloated envelope of the merger product , once when it passed periastron again . </S>",
    "<S> we predict that the system has an excess space velocity of order 50km / s in the equatorial plane of the homunculus . </S>",
    "<S> our triple model gives a viable explanation for the high runaway velocities typically observed in lbvs @xcite .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : individual : eta carinae </S>"
  ]
}