{
  "article_text": [
    "neural networks represent a multidisciplinary field , including e.g. neuroscience , mathematics , statistics , computer science , engineering , and physics .",
    "we can generally look at the development of the artificial neural network ( ann ) field as few periods of extensive research , starting with the first idea of a neuron by w.  mcculloch and w.  pitts ( 1943 ) @xcite . in the @xmath0 , j.  hopfield introduced his recurrent neural network , while p.  werbos developed",
    "the back - propagation algorithm - one of the most widely used to this day @xcite , @xcite .",
    "the reader should note that all developed networks are based on deterministic approach .",
    "anns try to mimic only the four fundamental elements of the biological neurons - input , processing , learning and output . in order to be able to generate an output",
    ", they exploit the interconnection principle between biological neurons .",
    "we can broadly classify them by the type of learning : supervised or unsupervised . through the learning ( or training process ) , the weights and biases of the network are adapted .",
    "there are many strategies for learning , usually determined by the way the values are evolved .",
    "the main important characteristics of the learning process are represented by two concurring passages , i.e. the capacity to use minimum computational resources , and to provide robustness of the system .",
    "one further step remains the choice of the error function , or target function and the goal is to minimize the error by varying the weights of the ann .",
    "nowadays in the standard approach , the changes in the weights are usually accomplished during the training process , with particularly nothing being implemented in the utilization of the network . among the possible options used in the learning process ,",
    "the gradient descent method is one of the most common .",
    "the back - propagation algorithm proposed in @xcite uses the error to propagate it through the network layer by layer until an outcome is produced .",
    "the backpropagation looks for the minimum value of the error function in weight space through delta rule or gradient descent . on the other hand we have evolutionary algorithms , which are generally directed random searches .",
    "they start from a set of random population , slowly converging to a solution @xcite .",
    "another interesting alternative is represented by simulated annealing @xcite , which in some situation can perform faster than backpropagation or genetic algorithms . by analogy with the physics problem discussed in @xcite , the strategy",
    "is based on the transition process of a solid substance from increased temperature to thermal equilibrium . in this context , the cooling of a substance becomes equivalent to minimize the cost function of an optimization problem .",
    "in @xcite the simulated annealing method is achieved by substituting the cost for energy , and executing the algorithm by slowly decreasing the temperature values .    to the best of our knowledge ,",
    "the above concepts are strongly based on analogies with classical ( or deterministic ) physics .",
    "an interesting possibility is to exploit , in some sense , quantum mechanical effects in a ann .",
    "this was suggested for the first time in @xcite where biological aspects of quantum phenomena in brain activity related to the activation point by a nerve impulse are described .    in this article ,",
    "the action potential plays a fundamental role in information processing inside the brain .",
    "the authors suggested that the firing of a neuron is obtained by the motion of a quantum particle , in the proximity of a potential ( or energetic ) barrier where typically effects such as tunnelling occurs .",
    "alternatives to this explanation exist such as the one proposed in @xcite based on the concept of micro - tubules which are able to maintain a macroscopic coherent superposition .",
    "in particular , the suggested explanation described in @xcite inspired us to develop a technique which mimics quantum effects in order to improve the set of weights of a ann in the _ post - learning _ stage .",
    "in more details , our method aims to reinforce the reliability of a network even in the case of training failure , at a relatively low computational cost .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in the next section",
    "we introduce the methodology behind the development of our proposed network .",
    "then , in order to validate this novel approach , we perform a set of numerical experiments involved in the problem of approximating a known function . in spite of the simplicity of the proposed technique , we believe that it provides a further chance for the network to escape from local minima , local optima or saddle points @xcite at a reasonable computational burden .",
    "nowadays , neural networks come in a great variety of ways - classification , data analysis , dimensionality reduction , etc , and thus there are many different implementations of neural networks . among them",
    "we have , for example , the perceptron @xcite , the multilayer feedforward network @xcite , the probabilistic network @xcite .",
    "interesting alternative based on fuzzy logic can be found in @xcite,@xcite . in this work ,",
    "we focus on multilayer feedforward network , which consist of many neurons , each of them fully connected to every neuron in adjacent forward layers , although the technique is not limited to this particular implementation ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> today artificial neural networks are applied in various fields - engineering , data analysis , robotics . while they represent a successful tool for a variety of relevant applications , mathematically speaking they are still far from being conclusive . in particular , they suffer from being unable to find the best configuration possible during the training process ( local minimum problem ) . in this paper , we focus on this issue and suggest a simple , but effective , post - learning strategy to allow the search for improved set of weights at a relatively small extra computational cost . therefore , we introduce a novel technique based on analogy with quantum effects occurring in nature as a way to improve ( and sometimes overcome ) this problem . </S>",
    "<S> several numerical experiments are presented to validate the approach .    </S>",
    "<S> example.eps gsave newpath 20 20 moveto 20 220 lineto 220 220 lineto 220 20 lineto closepath 2 setlinewidth gsave .4 setgray fill grestore stroke grestore </S>"
  ]
}