{
  "article_text": [
    "star formation is a complex , nonlinear phenomenon involving a host of physical processes .",
    "however , in essence it is a competition between self - gravity of gas clouds , along with any processes that promote gravitational instability , and forces that resist collapse , including : various pressures ( e.g. , thermal , turbulent , magnetic , cosmic ray ) ; direct stellar feedback ( protostellar outflows , winds , ionization [ leading to enhanced thermal pressure ] , radiation pressure ) and rotation and/or shear .",
    "the evolution of these pressures and support mechanisms needs to be followed by considering heating and cooling , generation and decay of turbulence , and generation and diffusion of @xmath0-fields .",
    "this requires following the chemical evolution of gas and dust , both for heating / cooling and for the trace ionization fraction that is important for coupling @xmath0-fields to the mostly neutral , molecular gas .",
    "we use _ clumps _ to describe self - gravitating gas structures that fragment into star clusters and _ cores _ as the structures that collapse via a central , rotationally - supported disk to form single stars or small-@xmath1 multiples .",
    "fragmentation of a clump into a population of cores ( and subsequent lack of fragmentation in core envelopes ) will depend on the evolution of local pressure support contributions .",
    "once the clump or core contains stars , then , in addition to the feedback these stars return to the gas , one also needs to follow the evolution of their orbits and multiplicity properties in the protocluster environment .",
    "continued , competitive bondi - hoyle accretion of gas to stars has been argued to be important in shaping the upper end of the initial mass function ( imf ) ( bonnell et al .",
    "2001 ; bate 2012 ) .",
    "however , as discussed by tan et al .",
    "( 2014 , hereafter t14 ) , simulations of competitive accretion have typically not included @xmath0-fields or well - resolved feedback , especially protostellar outflows , and so may have overestimated its importance .",
    "this highlights two major challenges for star formation simulations .",
    "first , one needs to be sure to include all the important physical processes , especially @xmath0-fields ( including non - ideal mhd processes , since young stars have magnetic flux - to - mass ratios that are several orders of magnitude smaller than molecular clouds ) and stellar feedback .",
    "second , one needs to resolve a vast ranges of scales , ideally down to the stellar surface .",
    "unfortunately , this is not yet practical for realistic systems that contain even moderate numbers of stars , especially because of the short timesteps that are associated with the smallest scales .",
    "thus , subgrid models are always needed , often implemented via sink particles , and a major concern is whether the results of simulations , such as the imf , binary properties and star formation rates ( sfrs ) , depend on how physics is implemented at the subgrid level .",
    "a third challenge is , unlike the cosmological pop iii case , numerical simulations of `` local '' star formation must make uncertain choices for initial conditions .    given these theoretical difficulties , and with observations of basic quantities of star - forming regions ( see  [ s : obs ] ) , such as mass and @xmath0-field strengths of interstellar gas clouds and the ages and thus sfrs of young stellar systems , also suffering from large uncertainties , there are still a number of major open questions about the star formation process .",
    "on the scales of galactic disks and kpc - scale subregions , empirical star formation relations have been found between sfr per unit area , @xmath2 , and total gas content per unit area , @xmath3 , and orbital timescale ( kennicutt & evans 2012 ) , but , as discussed below in  [ s : sfrs ] , there is no consensus on what processes regulate the sfr to follow these relations . on scales of giant molecular clouds ( gmcs ) , it is unclear what causes a certain region to form stars , i.e. , does it typically do so because of an external trigger ( e.g. , converging flows , cloud collisions or stellar feedback ) or via spontaneous gravitationally instability ( e.g. , as a cloud evolves and loses its earlier level of internal pressure support ) ?",
    "the answer to this question relates directly to the specification of initial conditions for numerical simulations of star formation , e.g. , how close is the initial clump or core to virial and pressure equilibrium ?",
    "how do stars accrete their mass  is it mostly from a natal pre - stellar core or by competitive bondi - hoyle accretion from the clump ?",
    "what sets the imf and binary properties and do these vary with environment ?",
    "what are the main processes that regulate sfrs in gmcs , clumps & cores : turbulence , magnetic fields or feedback ?",
    "are timescales to form a star cluster from a gas clump short ( elmegreen 2000 ; hartmann & burkert 2007 ) or long ( tan et al .",
    "2006 ; nakamura & li 2007 ) compared to the local free - fall time ?",
    ", is plotted versus mass , @xmath4 .",
    "dotted lines of constant radius , @xmath5 , h number density , @xmath6 ( or free - fall time , @xmath7)^{1/2}$ ] ) , and escape speed , @xmath8 , are shown .",
    "[ fig : result],width=453 ]    the physical properties of mass ( @xmath4 ) , radius ( @xmath5 ) , mass surface density ( @xmath9 ) , density ( @xmath10 ) or equivalently number density of h nuclei ( @xmath11 ) , free - fall time ( @xmath12)^{1/2}$ ] ) and surface escape speed ( @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is the virial parameter and @xmath15 is the 1d velocity dispersion ) of star - forming clouds and young star clusters are shown in fig .",
    "the range of scales shown extends from those of gmcs , i.e. , up to @xmath16 and @xmath17  pc , down to those of individual relatively massive cores @xmath18 and @xmath19  pc .",
    "a large fraction of stars in the galaxy and other similar disk galaxies are formed in star clusters with sizes of a few parsecs and a range of @xmath20 from @xmath21 to @xmath22 and masses from @xmath23 to @xmath24 , with initial cluster mass functions ( icmfs ) that can be fit by a power law @xmath25 up to @xmath24 ( fall & chandar 2012 ) .",
    "individual galaxies with higher sfrs , such as the starbursting antennae , or samples of galaxies ( e.g. , dowell et al .",
    "2008 ) exhibit a similar icmf that extends up to @xmath26 .",
    "although the majority of stars are born in protoclusters that have relatively high overall star formation efficiencies , @xmath27 , and are initially gravitationally bound , most cluster members eventually disperse to the field , due to a combination of cluster mass loss , envelope expansion and tidal stripping .    the precursors to star clusters are dense clumps that are mostly within gmcs and revealed by their emission from high critical density species ( e.g. , hco@xmath28 ) , from their extinction as infrared dark clouds ( irdcs ) , or by their mm / sub - mm dust continuum emission ( e.g. , massive star - forming ( msf ) clumps and the bolocam galactic plane survey ( bgps ) clumps ) ( see fig .",
    "1 ) . the central densities of some stellar clusters , such as the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) and ngc 3603 , extend to higher values than are typically seen in gas clouds of equivalent mass , which may indicate central concentration due to dynamical evolution of the protocluster during or just after star cluster formation , probably driven by mass segregation .",
    "one important question is the extent to which gmcs and clumps are gravitationally bound , i.e. , with virial parameters @xmath29 and close to virial equilibrium , i.e. , with @xmath30 .",
    "hernandez & tan ( 2015 , hereafter ht15 ) considered the ten irdcs shown by solid green squares in fig .",
    "1 , as well as their surrounding gmcs as traced by @xmath31co(1 - 0 ) . for clouds defined as connected structures in position - position - velocity space and with masses and velocity dispersions estimated from @xmath31co(1 - 0 ) , the mean and median values for gmcs are @xmath32 and 1.0 , with a standard deviation of 0.5 . for the irdcs ,",
    "the mean and median values are both 1.9 , with a standard deviation of 1.1 .",
    "this is evidence that gmcs are gravitationally bound and virialized , consistent with the results of roman - duval et al .",
    "( 2010 , see also tan et al .",
    "it is tentative evidence for irdcs having more disturbed kinematics .",
    "however , one must be careful with systematic effects , such as the possibility that co freeze - out onto dust grains is a greater in irdcs ( hernandez et al . 2011 ) , leading to their @xmath31co - derived masses being somewhat underestimated . as pointed out by heyer et al .",
    "( 2009 ) , studying the correlation of @xmath33 versus @xmath20 , which should be linear if virial equilibrium applies , is a more accurate way of assessing the virial equilibrium of cloud populations , since it reduces the effects of common systematic uncertainties associated with , e.g. , mass measurements that require assuming a particular abundance of a molecular cloud tracer , such as @xmath31co .",
    "such a correlation is seen in the gmc sample studied by ht15 , with a slight steepening on extending into the higher @xmath20 regime of irdcs .",
    "another way to assess the dynamics of clumps is to look directly for infall motions and mass infall rates . as reviewed by t14 , infall times , @xmath34 , relative to the local free - fall time , @xmath35 ,",
    "have been measured in several clumps , including irdcs , with typical observed ratios of @xmath36 , indicating relatively slow , quasi equilibrium contraction . in agreement with this , recently wyrowski et al .",
    "( 2015 ) have reported infall velocities to a sample of nine massive molecular clumps , finding infall speeds that are typically about 10% of free - fall .",
    "such slow rates of collapse suggest either a dynamically important role for @xmath0-fields , consistent with observations of two irdcs by pillai et al .",
    "( 2015 , see also analysis of falceta - gonalves et al .",
    "2008 and h - b .",
    "2014 ) , and/or stabilization of collapse by protostellar outflow feedback , as modeled by nakamura & li ( 2007 , 2014 ) .    the timescales and dynamics of molecular clouds can also be assessed by modeling their chemical evolution . from observations of ortho- and",
    "para-@xmath37 that constrain the ortho - to - para ratio ( opr ) of @xmath38 , brncken et al .",
    "( 2014 ) estimated a chemical age of @xmath39  myr , i.e. , @xmath40 , in the protostellar core iras 16293 - 2422 a / b , which has mean density @xmath41 , i.e. , @xmath42  yr . the opr of @xmath43 also controls deuteration chemistry , e.g. , of the abundance ratio @xmath44[@xmath45/[@xmath46 ( pagani et al . 2013",
    "; kong et al .",
    "this ratio rises by several orders of magnitude above the cosmic [ d]/[h ] ratio in cold , dense gas , where opr of @xmath43 drops to very low values and co molecules are mostly frozen out onto dust grains .",
    "the study of kong et al .",
    "( 2015b ) uses observations of @xmath47 in two massive starless or early - stage cores to estimate chemical ages that imply contraction is most likely proceeding at rates smaller than @xmath48 of free - fall .",
    "study of the internal structures of molecular clouds constrains the processes that regulate their dynamics . a simple metric is the probability distribution function ( pdf ) of @xmath20 within a defined area .",
    "kainulainen et al .",
    "( 2009 ) found non - star - forming clouds have log - normal @xmath20-pdfs , while star - forming clouds , such as taurus , have high-@xmath20 power - law tails .",
    "log - normal @xmath20-pdfs are a feature of supersonic turbulence , while high-@xmath20 power law tails are seen to emerge in such simulations once self - gravity is turned on , with this gas component interpreted as being in free - fall collapse ( kritsuk et al .",
    "2011 ; collins et al . 2011 ) .",
    "however , on the observational side , the difficulty of determining the peak of @xmath20-pdfs has been highlighted by schneider et al .",
    "( 2015a ) and lombardi et al .",
    "( 2015 ) , with the latter concluding that , given the uncertainties , the data of all the nearby clouds they considered are consistent with pure power - law tails .",
    "on the other hand , from combined nir + mir extinction mapping of an irdc and surrounding gmc , butler et al .",
    "( 2014 ) claimed to identify the peak of the @xmath20-pdf near 0.03  @xmath49 ( @xmath50  mag ) and found that the overall shape was well - fit by a single log - normal , with very little scope for the presence of high-@xmath20 power - law tail , even though the cloud has @xmath30 ( however , see schneider et al .",
    "2015b ) . on the theoretical side , simulations of self - gravitating , strongly - magnetized ( trans - alfvnic ) , turbulent clouds with realistic ( i.e.",
    ", non - periodic ) boundary conditions are needed for comparison with observed @xmath20-pdfs .",
    "in addition , the @xmath20-pdf is just one simple metric and higher order spatial and/or kinematic statistics are required to better characterize mhd turbulence of molecular clouds ( burkhart et al . 2014 ; 2015 ) .",
    "filamentary structures are common in star - forming clouds . on the largest scales , at least ten examples of very long @xmath17  pc - scale filaments have been detected in the galactic plane ( e.g. , jackson et al .",
    "2010 ; ragan et al . 2014 ; wang et al .",
    "their relatively ordered kinematics are a challenge to models that involve rapid , free - fall collapse ( butler et al . 2015 ) , which may again indicate that @xmath0-field support is important . on smaller scales , molecular clouds and clumps often appear to be composed of a network of filaments and there are claims , from studies of nearby , relatively low-@xmath20 clouds , that the filaments exhibit a characteristic width of @xmath51  pc ( see review by andr et al .",
    "hennebelle & andr ( 2013 ) have presented a model of self - gravitating filaments in which this scale is explained as being due to a balance between accretion - driven turbulence and dissipation by ion - neutral friction .",
    "more generally , sheets and filaments are expected to occur in all realistic models involving gravitational collapse , including those in which the clouds are permeated by trans - alfvnic turbulence for which both @xmath0-fields and turbulent motions make important contributions to internal pressure support .",
    "both pre - stellar and protostellar cores are seen in star - forming clouds , typically spaced along filaments , with identification via dust continuum emission , dust extinction or molecular emission lines . the core mass function ( cmf ) has been measured and found to be similar in shape to the stellar imf ( e.g. , knyves et al . 2015 ) , but translated to higher masses by a factor of about 2.5 , i.e. , implying a star formation efficiency of about 40% .",
    "such efficiencies are naturally explained as being due to feedback from protostellar outflows , for both low - mass ( matzner & mckee 2000 ) and high - mass cores ( zhang et al .",
    "2014 ) .",
    "the origin of the cmf remains uncertain .",
    "models of turbulent fragmentation have been proposed .",
    "for example , padoan & nordlund ( 2002 ) build a cmf by equating the size of cores to the thickness of post - shock compressed gas in a cloud permeated by super - alfvnic turbulence ( see also hennebelle & chabrier 2008 ) . however , it is not clear that observed cores form in such a dynamic and rapid manner .",
    "alternatively , kunz & mouschovias ( 2009 ) have proposed a dominant role for @xmath0-fields , with the cmf being set by ambipolar diffusion .",
    "the velocity dispersions of core populations have been measured in star - forming regions : e.g. , the @xmath52(1 - 0)-defined sample of kirk et al . ( 2007 ) in perseus .",
    "it was noted that the velocity dispersions appear subvirial , which could either be a true reflection of an unstable dynamical state ( although dense cores are expected to exhibit somewhat subvirial motions even in virialized clouds , offner et al .",
    "2008 ) or indicate that large - scale @xmath0-fields are providing significant support in the clump .",
    "observations of the stellar kinematics of embedded clusters from nir radial velocities find a dynamical state that is near virial equilibrium in the case of ngc 1333 ( foster et al .",
    "2015 ) and moderately super - virial for ic 348 ( cottaar et al .",
    "these results are consistent with theoretical expectations , given that the latter cluster has a smaller gas mass fraction , perhaps due to dispersal by feedback .",
    "it is very challenging to measure sfrs . on galactic and kiloparsec - scales",
    "this is normally achieved by measuring diagnostics associated with short - lived ( i.e. , @xmath53  myr ) high - mass stars , such as recombination lines , mainly h@xmath54 , from ionized gas and mir to fir luminosities ( see kennicutt & evans 2012 ) .",
    "empirically , a correlation @xmath55 is seen in disk galaxies and circumnuclear starburst disks , i.e. , with @xmath56 ( kennicutt 1998 ) .",
    "considering only the mass surface density of molecular gas , @xmath57 , a linear relation @xmath58 has been derived ( bigiel et al .",
    "another relation that is almost as good a fit to the data is @xmath59 , which is equivalent to conversion of 4% of total gas mass into stars per local orbital time @xmath60 ( kennicutt 1998 ; tan 2010 ; suwwanajak et al .",
    "such a relation could in principle be explained by triggering of star formation by spiral arm passage , but such enhancements were not seen in the study of foyle et al .",
    "one alternative model is triggering by shear - driven gmc collisions in a flat rotation curve thin disk ( tan 2000 ; tasker & tan 2009 ) , since in this environment , for gravitationally bound gmcs , the collision time is a fixed fraction , @xmath61 , of an orbital time .",
    "once the total sfr is measured in a galaxy , such as the milky way where it is estimated to be @xmath62 , then the sfr per free - fall time , @xmath63 , on the density scale of a given ism tracer can also be assessed .",
    "for example , the galactic population of @xmath64co - defined gmcs has @xmath65 with typical densities @xmath66 and free - fall times @xmath67  yr . assuming most of the total sfr occurs in gmcs , then @xmath68 for gmcs ( zuckermann & evans 1974 ) . extending this to the higher densities of irdcs and other tracers , krumholz & tan ( 2007 ) concluded @xmath69 for clouds of densities up to @xmath70 .",
    "murray ( 2011 ) found @xmath71 higher values , i.e , @xmath72 , in the gmcs associated with the 13 most luminous galactic free - free sources , which suggests that sfr activity may be very stochastic .    extending to the smaller scales of individual gmcs , counting of young stellar objects ( ysos )",
    "can be attempted and a sfr derived by assuming they have a typical age , e.g. , @xmath73  myr in the study of heiderman et al .",
    "their results are consistent with a threshold for star formation of @xmath74 , i.e. , @xmath75 or @xmath50  mag , which agrees with the prediction of a model of photoionization - regulated star formation in magnetically - supported clouds ( mckee 1989 ) . above the threshold",
    ", there is an approximately linear relation of @xmath76 , i.e. , with a normalization factor @xmath77 higher than the kpc - scale result of bigiel et al .",
    "this implies @xmath78 for spherical clouds .",
    "if more accurate individual stellar ages can be derived , then age spreads can be searched for and sfrs derived more directly .",
    "the best region for such studies is the onc , from which an estimate of @xmath79 is derived ( da rio et al .",
    "2014 ) .",
    "( 2013 ) measured luminosity to mass ratios , @xmath80 , of a complete census of hco@xmath28 clumps ( fig .",
    "the lower bound of this distribution in the @xmath81 vs. @xmath20 plane constrains @xmath82 , otherwise just the accretion luminosities of the protostars , i.e. , ignoring internal luminosities , would exceed observed values .    thus , even in regions that are actively forming stars , observed sfrs in molecular clouds typically imply very inefficient star formation , i.e. , just a few percent conversion of gas into stars per local free - fall time .",
    "based on the results of numerical simulations , supersonic turbulence in self - gravitating gas has been proposed to explain these sfrs ( krumholz & mckee 2005 ; padoan & nordlund 2011 ; hennebelle & chabrier 2011 ; see review by padoan et al .",
    "krumholz et al .",
    "( 2009 ) have applied these models to populations of gmcs in galactic disks to explain their empirical star formation relations .",
    "however , the turbulence regulated star formation models involve creation of gravitationally unstable regions , i.e. , cores , by rapid compression behind shocks and it is not clear that the observations of cores (  [ s : obs ] ) support a picture of such rapid accumulation of their gas .",
    "also , to achieve @xmath83 in simulations of mhd turbulence , typically requires @xmath84 ( padoan et al .",
    "2012 ) , again inconsistent with observed clouds .",
    "the simulations that underpin the models are mostly of super - alfvnic turbulence ( i.e. , relatively weak @xmath0-fields ) driven on large - scales and have periodic boundary conditions . if star cluster formation is a relatively slow , quasi - equilibrium process that takes at least several free - fall times to build up the stellar population ( tan et al .",
    "2006 ) , then most stars will instead be forming in an environment in which turbulence is maintained by small - scale driving by protostellar outflows ( nakamura & li 2007 ) . finally , the @xmath20 threshold for star formation is not naturally explained in these pure turbulence models .    in summary , observations suggest stars form with low efficiency per local free - fall time , i.e. , @xmath63 of a few percent , in clumps with @xmath85  mag , i.e. , @xmath86 , but these regions often eventually build up overall efficiencies of @xmath87 to form loosely bound clusters . this star formation activity is likely regulated by a combination of @xmath0-fields and turbulence .",
    "clumps need to become moderately magnetically supercritical , i.e. , their large - scale @xmath0-fields no longer strong enough to resist gravity , which likely explains the @xmath20 threshold for active sfrs .",
    "however , @xmath0-fields remain relatively strong so that turbulence is trans - alfvnic . at first turbulence",
    "is mostly driven from large scales , perhaps by gmc collisions , which also promote compression and formation of supercritical clumps and are a natural mechanism to connect the kpc - scale galactic dynamics of shearing disks to the pc - scales of protoclusters . as star formation proceeds ,",
    "then the local turbulence becomes dominated by that driven by protostellar outflows .",
    "eventually feedback from massive stars , especially ionization , disperses remaining gas in the protocluster , though this becomes progressively more difficult in higher-@xmath20 , higher - mass clumps , which may then form super star clusters with high efficiency ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i review ( 1 ) physics of star formation & open questions ; ( 2 ) structure & dynamics of star - forming clouds & young clusters ; ( 3 ) star formation rates : observations & theoretical implications . </S>"
  ]
}