{
  "article_text": [
    "in dairy cattle intensive farming , diseases are certainly a major concern .",
    "they reduce animal welfare , entail considerable direct treatment costs , decrease milk production , may cause mortality and present biosafety risks related to veterinary drugs ( e.g. antibiotics ) residues in milk and the possible transmission to humans ( zoonoses , e.g. tuberculosis ) .",
    "infectious ( e.g. infectious mastitis ) and metabolic ( e.g. ketosis ) diseases comprise most of the diseases observed in dairy cattle .    a strategy to reduce the incidence of diseases and improve",
    "the health status of the herd could be to genetically enhance the resistance to diseases .",
    "this could address both resistance to specific diseases and a general improvement of the immune system of the animals ( @xmath0 `` robustness of dairy cows '' @xcite ) .",
    "the identification of genomic regions associated with the susceptibility to diseases is an important preliminary step towards implementing breeding strategies aimed at improving dairy cattle health .",
    "this is now made possible by the use of data obtained through next generation genotyping and sequencing technologies ( e.g. snp chips , whole - genome sequences ) .",
    "genome - wide association studies ( gwas ) are commonly used to scan the genome in search of polymorphisms associated with the analyzed phenotype . however , gwas methods typically analyse one locus at a time , are prone to spurious associations and , but for clear signals , are not always of straightforward interpretation ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "runs of homozygosity ( roh , @xcite ) may be an alternative approach to genome - wide scans for signals of genotype - phenotype association .",
    "runs of homozygosity are contiguous stretches of homozygous genome which likely reflect transmission from a common ancestor , and can therefore be considered as being ibd ( identical by descent ) .",
    "roh have been used to estimate inbreeding both in humans @xcite and cattle @xcite .",
    "hildebrandt et al .",
    "@xcite applied a similar concept to map recessive disease genes in human populations , and biscarini et al .",
    "@xcite used roh to look for the causal mutations for arthrogryposis and macroglossia in piedmontese cattle .    hypothesizing that genetic variants associated with increased risk of disease are more likely to be recessive than dominant ( see hildebrandt et al . for human diseases @xcite ) , looking for associations with homozygous segments of the genome appears to be a reasonable strategy . in this study",
    ", roh were used to detect genomic regions associated with susceptibility to 5 categories of diseases ( infectious , metabolic and reproductive diseases , mastitis and locomotive disorders ) in dairy cattle .",
    "* available data *     a population of 468 holstein - frisian cows between the first and fifth lactation distributed over 4 herds ( table  [ tab : population ] from the po valley region in northern italy was analysed .",
    "all cows were farmed under intensive conditions ( use of concentrate feeds , no pasture , indoor housing ) in high - yielding dairy farms and were genotyped with the illumina bovinesnp 50 beadchip version 2 ( 50k ) , based on the umd 3.1 assembly of the _ bos taurus _ genome .",
    ".population size after data editing . on the first row , per herd and",
    "total number of cows .",
    "rows 2 - 6 show n. of cases for each disease category@xmath1 . disease category may overlap ( e.g. infectious mastitis is both infectious disease and mastitis ) . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     @xmath1qtls for milk production traits from previous gwas studies : fy = fat yield , nm = net merit , py = protein yield , my = milk yield , fp = fat percentage ( cole et al . , 2011 ; minozzi et al . ,",
    "2013 ) .",
    "[ tab : associations ]    * regions associated with disease susceptibility *     the longest roh ( 117 snps , @xmath2 mbps ) was found on bta 11 and was associated with infectious diseases .",
    "on bta 12 , three distinct regions ( - bps ; - bps ; - bps ) were associated with infectious diseases .",
    "the first two of these regions were also found in cows with , respectively , locomotive disorders and mastitis .",
    "both conditions often have a microbial etiology ( e.g. infectious mastitis , foot rot ) .",
    "interestingly , the roh region at @xmath3 mbps on bta 12 contains the vwa8 gene ( von willebrand factor a domain ) , whose mutations might be implied in coagulation abnormalities @xcite and may be related with musculoskeletal disorders .",
    "two other regions linked with both infectious diseases and mastitis were found on bta 24 and bta 28 .",
    "on bta 28 kolbehdari et al .",
    "@xcite found polymorphisms ( bps and bps ) associated with the conformation of the mammary system and angularity , which might be related to the occurrence of mastitis .",
    "a poor conformation of the udder may be a predisposing factor for mastitis , as well as intensive selection for dairy type .",
    "the roh on bta 28 was found to be associated also with locomotive disorders , pointing at possible detrimental effects of selection for dairy type on locomotion .",
    "homozygous haplotypes linked with locomotive disorders were detected also on bta 6 between and bps ; kolbehdari et al .",
    "@xcite reported a nearby association with overall rump conformation , which can be related to locomotion anomalies .",
    "upstream along bta 6 the casein ( @xmath4-s1 , @xmath4-s2 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 ) loci are located which could hint at a link between selection for casein variants and general functionality of the animals .",
    "+ in some cases , consecutive roh are quite close together ( e.g. bta 7 and bta 15 ) which might reflect the existence of a founder allele broken down by recombination over generations .",
    "the parameters for roh detection ( consecutive snp gap @xmath7 1mbps , more missing or heterozygous snps ) may also play a role , though .",
    "figure  [ fig : roh ] shows the average observed heterozygosity in cases and controls for reproductive diseases along bta 15 : roh are visible as regions of low heterozygosity ( and conversely high homozygosity ) in cases ( black line ) as compared to controls ( grey line ) .",
    "roh associated with impaired reproductive function were found on chromosomes 4 , 8 , and 18 , where other studies detected associations with calving ease @xcite , calving interval @xcite and type traits like body depth , rump width , stature and strength @xcite .",
    "+ in this study we identified genetic associations with infectious diseases , mastitis , metabolic syndromes and reproductive diseases on chromosomes 3 , 5 , 7 , 13 and 18 where earlier works reported qtls for milk production traits @xcite : this confirms the known negative relationship between strong selection for milk production and the health of the animals .",
    "negative genetic correlations between milk production and disease resistance in holstein ( e.g. @xcite ) and dairy cattle in general ( norwegian red , @xcite were estimated .",
    "though negative , such correlations are larger than -1 ; this implies that alleles at polymorphic loci with positive effects on both characteristics ( or positive effects on production and neutral effect on health ) can be found ( see for instance pimentel et al .",
    "@xcite for fertility and production ) .",
    "scanning the genome for runs of homozygosity provides a valid alternative to gwas studies for the genetic dissection of complex disease traits and for detecting such variants with beneficial effects on both production and the health of the animals .",
    "results could be used in breeding programs aimed at improving milk production while enhancing the resistance to diseases at the same time .",
    "emphasis in selection objectives could be more strongly placed on functional rather than productive traits , thus improving functionality while not completely neglecting production , thanks to residual positive correlations .",
    "alternatively , haplotypes favorably linked to either production , functionality or both could be used to identify carrier animals to breed next generation , in a sort of `` haplotype selection '' .",
    "several aspects of the use of roh in association studies still need to be investigated , though .",
    "examples are : the construction of significance tests ( e.g. here the difference in homozygosity between cases and controls was tested ; however , the differential frequency of roh could be tested instead ) ; the issue of multiple testing ( e.g. permute cases and controls so to create a distribution of roh under the hypothesis of no association ) ; accounting for systematic effects ( e.g. using residuals instead of the original observations , or performing the roh analysis within class of effects ) ; accounting for selection bias due to culling of animals for health or productive reasons ( e.g. roh analysis within parity / age class , or application of survival analysis ) .",
    "this promises to be an exciting area of research : hopefully , this communication might serve of inspiration .",
    "the results presented in this paper were produced within the framework of the project `` prozoo '' ( www.tecnoparco.org/prozoo ) , financed by `` regione lombardia '' , `` fondazione cariplo '' and `` fondazione banca popolare di lodi '' .",
    "this research was also supported by the marie curie european reintegration grant `` neutradapt '' and the `` gene2farm '' project within the 7th european community framework programme , and by the italian national project `` interomics '' ( www.interomics.eu ) .",
    "r. mcquillan , a.l .",
    "leutenegger , r. abdel - rahman , c.s .",
    "franklin , m. pericic , l. barac - lauc , n. smolej - narancic , b. janicijevic , o. polasek , a. tenesa , a. macleod , s.m .",
    "farrington , p. rudan , c. hayward , v. vitart , i. rudan , s. wild , m. dunlop , a. wright , h. campbell and j. wilson .",
    "runs of homozygosity in european populations . , 83:359372 , 2008 .",
    "kim , j.b .",
    "cole , h. huso , g.r .",
    "wiggans , c.p .",
    "van tassell , b.a .",
    "crooker , g. liu , y. da and t.s .",
    "effect of artifical selection on runs of homozygosity in u.s .",
    "holstein cattle . , 8(11):e80813 , 2013 .",
    "f. hildebrandt , s.f .",
    "heeringa , f. rschendorf , m. attanasio , g. nrnberg , c. becker ... e.a .",
    "otto . a systematic approach to mapping recessive genes in individuals from outbred populations .",
    ", 5(1):e1000353 , 2009 .",
    "f. biscarini , m. del corvo , a. stella , a. albera , m. ferenakovi and g. pollott .",
    "busqueda de las mutaciones causales para artrogriposis y macroglosia en vacuno de raza piemontesa : resultados preliminares . , 538 - 540 , 2013 .          j.b .",
    "cole , p.m. vanraden , j.r .",
    "oconnell , c.p .",
    "van tassell , t.s .",
    "sonstegard , r.d .",
    "schnabel , j.f .",
    "taylor and g.r .",
    "wiggans . distribution and location of genetic effects for dairy traits . , 92:29312946 , 2009 .",
    "j. cole , g. wiggans , l. ma , t. sonstegard , t. lawlor , b. crooker , c. van tassell , j. yang , s. wang , l. matukumalli and y. da .",
    "genome - wide association analysis of thirty one production , health , reproduction and body conformation traits in contemporary us holstein cows .",
    ", 12(1):408 , 2011 .",
    "d. kolbehdari , z. wang , j.r .",
    "grant , b. murdoch , a. prasad , z. xiu , e. marques , p. stothard and s.s .",
    "moore . a whole - genome scan to map quantitative trait loci for conformation and functional traits in canadian holstein bulls .",
    ", 91:28442856 , 2008 .",
    "s. purcell , b. neale , k. todd - brown , l. thomas , m.a.r .",
    "ferreira , d. bender , j. maller , p. sklar , p.i.w .",
    "de bakker , m.j .",
    "daly and p.c .",
    "plink : a toolset for whole - genome association and population - based linkage analysis . , 81:559575 , 2007 .",
    "g. minozzi , e.l .",
    "nicolazzi , a. stella , s. biffani , r. negrini , b. lazzari , p. ajmone - marsan and j.l .",
    "williams genome - wide analysis of fertility and production traits in italian holstein cattle . , 8(11):e80219 , 2013 .",
    "pimentel , s. bauersachs , m. tietze , h. simianer , j. tetens , g. thaller , f. reinhardt , e. wolf and s. knig .",
    "exploration of relationships between production and fertility traits in dairy cattle via association studies of snps within candidate genes derived by expression profiling .",
    ", 42:251262 , 2010 .",
    "sullivan , s.t .",
    "grubbs , t.w .",
    "olchowy , f.m .",
    "andrews , j.g .",
    "white , j.l .",
    "catalfamo , p.a . dodd and t.p .",
    ". bleeding diathesis associated with variant von willebrand factor in a simmental calf . , 205(12):17631766 , 1994 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> runs of homozygosity ( roh ) are contiguous stretches of homozygous genome which likely reflect transmission from common ancestors and can be used to track the inheritance of haplotypes of interest . in the present paper , </S>",
    "<S> roh were extracted from 50k snps and used to detect regions of the genome associated with susceptibility to diseases in a population of 468 holstein - frisian cows . </S>",
    "<S> diagnosed diseases were categorised as infectious diseases , metabolic syndromes , mastitis , reproductive diseases and locomotive disorders . </S>",
    "<S> roh associated with infectious diseases , mastitis and locomotive disorders were found on bta 12 . </S>",
    "<S> a long region of homozygosity linked with metabolic syndromes , infectious and reproductive diseases was detected on bta 15 , disclosing complex relationships between immunity , metabolism and functional disorders . </S>",
    "<S> roh associated with infectious and reproductive diseases , mastitis and metabolic syndromes were observed on chromosomes 3 , 5 , 7 , 13 and 18 . </S>",
    "<S> previous studies reported qtls for milk production traits on all of these regions , thus substantiating the known negative relationship between selection for milk production and health in dairy cattle . </S>"
  ]
}