{
  "article_text": [
    "control is a ubiquitous theme of life and technology . when reaching for a cup of coffee or walking through the mountains , our neural systems control all movements with great ease , despite the great uncertainty involved in controlling the muscles , the complexity of the task and many other factors .",
    "that this simplicity is an illusion is seen as soon as trying to program a robot for doing a task . while the complexity of programming stands as a challenge for decades , in recent times considerable progress has been achieved by new materials  @xcite , powerful actuators  @xcite , the improved theory of control  @xcite , but in particular by the tremendous increase in computational power that allows modeling and physically realistic simulations of very complex systems to improve planning and control  @xcite and even allows to simulate large controlled muscular body systems  @xcite , or find new perspectives for artificial evolution  @xcite by exploiting super computer power .",
    "however , any approach setting on computer power finds its boundaries promptly by the combinatorial complexity of robots in the environment .",
    "the darpa challenge presents numerous examples of progress but also reveals a realm of failures of these systems even under remote control .",
    "also there are a variety of new control paradigms around , best demonstrated by the amazing locomotion abilities of the boston dynamics robots , like bigdog , petman and others .",
    "these are ingeniously engineered systems for realizing a specific set of tasks with their highly specialized bodies .",
    "the present hype in `` classical '' robotics evokes the early times of ai with its firm believe that the behavior of robots can be prescribed on a formal level by formulating a set of rules to be realized by the machine . in practical applications ,",
    "this approach proved very soon to fail due to the complexity of both modeling and controlling real world scenarios .",
    "a rethinking began more than two decades ago , with rodney brooks statement `` the world is its own best model '' , prompting a drastic change of paradigms in the control of autonomous robots  @xcite .",
    "the so - called embodied ai recognizes the body as an equal partner in the control process .",
    "the exploitation of the specific properties of the body , sometimes called _ morphological computation _  @xcite has subsequently become an active field of research with many impressive results , see  @xcite opening new perspectives for both robot control and our understanding human sensorimotor intelligence  @xcite .    to date , the two branches of robotics  the classical ai versus the embodied approach  coexist , each one having its realm of relevance .",
    "the embodied approach seems to be favored in systems with strong physical effects , like soft robotic systems or elastically actuated robots , where the engineering approaches run into severe difficulties .",
    "the limitations of present day engineering approaches to human like structures is best seen when considering muscle - tendon driven ( mtd ) systems where an important line of research was shaped by eu projects leading from cronos , to eccerobot to myorobotics , but also by japanese projects creating the highly sophisticated kenshiro robot  @xcite . while excellent work has been done in planning , constructing , and eventually building these robots  @xcite ,",
    "the control of these systems  @xcite is still in its infancy .",
    "problems stem from the fact that every movement leads to a whole body answer and the effect of an action has much different effects depending on the state of the system .",
    "one option is to model the system in order to map it to a conventional rigid joint system , with workspace analysis  @xcite and actuation effects computed by a suitable cable routing matrix approach  @xcite .",
    "however , measuring joint angles precisely is a problem in practice and also to account for tendon / muscle elasticities causes sever inaccuracies especially when it comes to dynamics .",
    "the other option is to use learning to achieve a new behavior , e.g.  with reinforcement learning . for this",
    "a suitable exploration has to be implemented , because a random unstructured search is not feasible .",
    "we argue that a new control paradigm based on self - organization can bootstrap the control problem by providing basic dynamic behaviors in a very short time , which can be later combined to solve tasks by known learning methods .",
    "the idea of self - organizing behavior is quite different from classical control because there is * no * target signal or any other specific input to the system .",
    "the only source of information are the sensor values itself , containing the responses of the world to action on which a suitable generic drive has to be implemented . in this work",
    "we propose a generic drive that increases velocity correlation between the degrees of freedom .",
    "the concrete new behavior emerges from old behavior in a dynamical process where the classical roles of the controller and the controlled are seemingly inverted .",
    "this paper demonstrates that a controller , only given in terms of responses of the world without a predefined goal , leads to self - organized control producing a wealth of meaningful behavior in embodied robotic systems .",
    "the paper also outlines some of the most prominent consequences .",
    "our approach somewhat implements the idea of @xcite that `` the body shapes the way we think '' directly into a low - level control framework , letting the body become actual creator of the robot s basic way of acting and eventually thinking .",
    "there are also other approaches for creating self - driven behavior from generic drives .",
    "there is predictive information maximization  @xcite which creates less coordinated behaviors than the presented approach , but is similar in the setup .",
    "active goal exploration  @xcite can be considered as an implementation for high - dimensional systems of the long suggested maximizing of learning progress  @xcite .",
    "it was not yet applied to soft robots , requires a much longer time for new behaviors and is not interactive .",
    "however , it results in a complex internal model of the robot which we do not train here .    for our experiments",
    "we have chosen an anthropomimetic musculoskeletal arm - shoulder platform that is actuated by tendon - spring elements .",
    "this robot has many degrees of freedom ( 10 ) and is elastically actuated which makes it hard to be classically controlled .",
    "we demonstrate that our control approach creates an meta - system  formed by controller , body , and environment  with a rich variety of all kinds of attractors .",
    "these can be deliberately switched by manipulative disturbances , creating an attractor meta - dynamics  @xcite .",
    "we use the same controller without any changes for all experiments .",
    "there is no reward or specific goal , just the responses of the world ( sensor values ) which guide the behavior by the generic drive to increase velocity correlations between the joints .",
    "this is seen by the `` willingness '' of the meta - system to follow and repeat manually imposed motion patterns .",
    "more interestingly , the meta - system may become a resonator which is excited by the self - amplification of latent motion patterns of its physical subsystems .",
    "for instance , when suspending a weight from the tip of the arm , the meta - system is piloted by this pendulum into a resonant state where the pendulum weight describes a circular motion pattern .",
    "different from a chain carousel which is driven by an outside torque , this motion pattern emerges only by the self - amplification of the tiny but systematic forces exerted by the pendulum on the muscles of the arm . in another setting ,",
    "when given a bottle half - filled with water , the robot starts shaking the bottle in a definite manner , driven by the dynamics of the water .",
    "these and many more behaviors can be observed in a single run , without stopping the system or manipulating the controller in any way , and is a direct consequence of using the physical responses as the only source of information . this work is a further development of our previous work  @xcite , putting the approach on a more solid theoretical basis and demonstrating its usefulness with a really challenging physical system .",
    "we also discuss perspectives for using this controller paradigm for deliberate behavior generation .",
    "this is the decisive next step that will leverage the approach to a versatile tool for behavior generation of soft robots .",
    "the controller , we propose , is a function that receives at time @xmath0 a vector of sensor values @xmath1 and sends a vector of motor values @xmath2 .",
    "as we aim at self - organization of control , we have to define the control signals in a self - consistent way on the basis of the history of sensor signals alone .",
    "let us introduce @xmath3 , the vector of the future sensor values , where @xmath4 is a time lag with @xmath5 in the derivations given below ( time is measured in discrete update - steps , here up to 100/sec ) .    in order to have non - trivial behavior",
    "the sensorimotor loop needs to be mildly destabilized , driving it into self - excited behavior modes . in this sensorimotor loop",
    "the controller regulates the energy feed - in .",
    "destabilization can be achieved by increasing the overall feedback strength .",
    "however , to keep this destabilization in bounds , we need a conservative element which is formulated by the following self - consistency requirement .",
    "we postulate the existence of a forward model given by the ( state dependent ) matrix @xmath6 so that @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the modeling error .",
    "this describes the physical dynamics over one time step . introducing @xmath9 which is the inverse or pseudoinverse of @xmath6 we require @xmath10 to be a function of the future sensor values @xmath11 , @xmath12 this is the conservative element as it binds the control of the system and hence the energy feed - in to the real physical situation .",
    "so , equations and display the essential idea of our approach to make motor signal compliant with the world dynamics . in a sense , eq .",
    "means that the world s responses , represented by @xmath11 , signals the controller what to do .",
    "but of course the world ( i.e.  the future sensor values @xmath13 ) is also controlled by the controller through the actions @xmath10 .",
    "the choice of the sensor - to - motor mapping @xmath9 will be discussed below , see sect .",
    "[ sec : roleofm ] .",
    "however , it only has to capture the coarse causal relationship between sensor and motors and even in the case of the tendon driven robot a one - to - one mapping is used ( @xmath9 is the identity matrix ) because each motor position is related to the tendon length on a one - to - one fashion . in this way eq .",
    "boils down to @xmath14 .",
    "however , we can not use eq .   directly for generating the control signal @xmath10 as it contains the future .",
    "so , we must find a model for relating the future sensor signals @xmath15 to their past , i.e.  @xmath16 .",
    "in other words , we need a time series predictor for the sensor dynamics .",
    "this may be obtained in many different ways , however , we propose one that is particularly simple and creates a general drive to increase velocity correlation between the degrees of freedom , see also appendix sect .  [",
    "sec : appcontroller ] .",
    "it consists of a time varying linear predictor for the derivatives of the sensor values in the form @xmath17 .",
    "the matrix @xmath18 is given by an exponential weighted time average of the past velocity correlations as @xmath19 where @xmath20 and @xmath21 is a normalization constant .",
    "the important part is the term @xmath22 measuring the velocity correlations between sensor vectors with a given time lag . the predictor @xmath18 is then used in the following controller @xmath23 where @xmath24 ( all quantities at time t ) .",
    "the function @xmath25 is a squashing function so that motor values are kept in bounds . in the applications we use the @xmath26 function applied element - wise .",
    "note that the matrix @xmath27 can also be obtained from an update rule , see sect .",
    "[ sec : appupdate ] , which differs from earlier work  @xcite by the normalization factor @xmath28 in eq .  .",
    "in the experiments this leads to a more continuous activity in the behaviors avoiding long pauses of inactivity .    the self - consistency principle formulated by eq .",
    "eqn : controls is not yet operational .",
    "there is a global attractor given by @xmath29 for all @xmath0 ( note that the squashing function @xmath30 is antisymmetric ) , i.e.  in a position controll setting all actuators are in their central position given by @xmath31 . in order to destabilize this attractor",
    ", we use that the sensorimotor system is a feedback loop with the controller regulating the energy feed - in . for increasing the overall feed - back strength ,",
    "we replace the matrix elements of @xmath27 in eq .   as @xmath32 , with @xmath33 denoting",
    "the norm of row @xmath34 and @xmath35 is a regularization for keeping the normalization factor in bounds .",
    "@xmath36 may be considered as a kind of `` character '' parameter as it defines essentially the amplification factor of the loop . using @xmath37 , where @xmath38",
    ", it determines the amplitude of the emerging motion patterns .",
    "a second such `` character '' parameter is given by the time scale @xmath39 for the history of the sensor values included in @xmath27 , see the appendix for details .",
    "the implementation of the controller is thus simple and boils down to just two equations eq .",
    "and eq .   with the normalization of @xmath27 described above .",
    "this controller paradigm differs from usual paradigms in many ways .",
    "there is no specific goal , no target signal , no learning , no biasing , no sampling , and no preprocessing or preconditioning .",
    "there are just the two `` character '' parameters @xmath39 and @xmath36 .",
    "all the controller does is to push incoming sensor vectors into the history stack and use the latter for evaluating @xmath27 .",
    "why is such a simple controller able to generate the different behaviors by itself ?",
    "when considering @xmath18 we see that it basically contains the _ velocity correlations _ of subsequent sensor vectors in the recent past such that the system is driven towards patterns with high velocity correlations in the sensor values .",
    "any initial movement or perturbation sets the germ for a small movement which is then amplified due to the positive feedback strength set by @xmath36 , if sufficiently large .",
    "however , an unbounded growth of the motor values is not possibly due to the non - linear controller ( @xmath30 function ) which leads to a confinement .",
    "a solution to the requirement of maintaining high velocity correlations and a positive feedback loop is to enter an oscillation .",
    "the orbit of the limit cycle is however strongly influenced by the velocity correlation which are determined by the embodiment effects .",
    "behaviors become stationary if they fulfill the _ self - consistency _ where @xmath18 given by eq",
    ".   produces with the behavior which sustains @xmath40 .",
    "this is the case for harmonic oscillations where @xmath18 become more or less a constant rotation matrix .",
    "however , also a limit cycle in the @xmath40 dynamics is possible leading to a periodic change in the behavior .",
    "until a stationary behavior is found the system wanders in a long transient through many different oscillatory behaviors , in some cases this process may not end because no self - consistent behavior is found .",
    "a deeper mathematical analysis is left for future work .",
    "the essential feature is the irreducible unity of the controller and the controlled in an adaptive self - referential dynamical system  a meta system .",
    "the idea to consider the sensorimotor loop as a closed meta - system is also central to a body of work , see for instance  @xcite .",
    "the above defined controller was used in the experiments with a tendon driven arm - shoulder system from the myorobotics toolkit  @xcite , see fig .  [",
    "fig : arm ] .",
    "the system has 11 artificial muscles , 8 in the shoulder and 2 in the elbow and one affecting both .",
    "however two of the shoulder muscles where disconnected .",
    "the muscles are composed of a motor winding up a tendon connected to a spring , see fig .  [",
    "fig : arm](b ) .",
    "the length of a tendon @xmath41 is given by the motor encoders and the spring force is translated into a length @xmath42 in the interval @xmath43 $ ] where @xmath44 defines pretension ( here @xmath45 ) . the length of the tendons is normalized to @xmath46 $ ] .",
    "we define the sensor values as @xmath47 where @xmath48 regulates the integration of the spring - length . in the experiments ,",
    "@xmath48 was simply set to 1 without further tuning .",
    "it is expected that this choice is not critical .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ] +      there are a number of features which make the muscle - tendon driven ( mtd ) systems different from classical robots having revolute joints with direct motor control , i.e.  the motor positions directly translate into joint angles and into poses .",
    "the most obvious effect is seen when tendons are getting slack so that contact with the physical state of the arm is lost altogether .",
    "this has to be avoided by keeping a permanent tension on the tendons , which poses another problem : the tension can only be achieved by tightening each tendon up against all the others , each individual tension being reported by the spring length .",
    "this means that ( i ) there are infinitely many combinations of tension forces for a single arm pose and ( ii ) that the action of a single motor will be reflected in a change of spring length of all other muscles . in other words ,",
    "actuating a single muscle is reflected by a pattern of sensory stimulation a whole - body answer .",
    "furthermore , the combination of friction effects and muscle - pose ambiguity leads to a strong hysteresis effect . after driving",
    "the arm by a sequence of motor commands from pose a to pose b one ends up in a different pose and muscle configuration than @xmath6 after moving back by reversing the motor commands . in general",
    ", this makes the translation of a kinematic trajectory for the arm into motor programs extremely difficult , even more so if there are loads and high velocities involved .",
    "also , the classical approach of learning a model by motor babbling becomes illusory . in a sense , these problems dissolve partially when using the system s physical responses for finding the control signals .",
    "we conducted several experiments listed in tab .",
    "[ tab : experiments ] which demonstrate the essential features of the control scheme .",
    "all experiments are done with the same controller with the same initialization ( @xmath49 ) so that it is only the physical situation that differs between the experiments .",
    "we will keep this paper mainly on the level of phenomena , providing a deeper analysis in a later paper .",
    "we recommend consulting the videos for better understanding .",
    "[ vid : demo ] [ vid : handshake ] [ vid : bottle : swing ] [ vid : bottle : shaking : horizontal : white ] [ vid : bottle : shaking : horizontal ] [ vid : bottle : shaking : vertical ] [ vid : free : moving ]    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      before presenting the experiments in more detail , let us take a look at the sensorimotor coupling that is created by this controller .",
    "one of the crucial features is the self - regulation into a working regime where the tendons are kept under tension even in very rapid motions with notable loads .",
    "this is very important as it guarantees the signals from the controller to be executed in a definite way . as a result ,",
    "in all experiments we never had to face a shoulder dislocation , see  fig .",
    "[ fig : arm](c ) , which may happen promptly if tendons are getting loose .",
    "this is the more astonishing as this sensible working regime emerges without any additional tuning or calibrating  @xcite the system . for that , the particular sensor configuration eq",
    ".   seems to be important , but we did not study it systematically yet and expect other configurations to work as well .",
    "the dominance of the sensor responses in the control framework makes the controlled system manipulable by externally applied forces .",
    "the point is that any additional forces applied to the arm segments change the sensor values via the changing spring tension .",
    "this effect integrates manipulative influences  like a physical robot human interaction  into the sensor values and thereby , via the controller matrix @xmath27 , in the behavior generation .",
    "for instance , the arm can always be stopped by applying a force by hand .",
    "the reason is not that the motors are too weak .",
    "instead , @xmath50 is a fixed point of the dynamics the meta - system to which it relaxes if the mechanical degrees of freedom are frozen manually  . ] .",
    "moreover , the system can be entrained by manual interaction into specific behaviors .",
    "we demonstrate this in the handshake experiment , see video  [ vid : handshake ] , where the user is trying to move the arm in a periodic pattern . besides the possibility to train a robot in this way , the most interesting point is the subjective feeling that comes about when interacting with the robot . in the beginning of such an interplay , the robot seems to have a will of its own as it resists the motions the user is trying to impose .",
    "but after a short time the robot follows the human more and more and eventually is able ( and `` willing '' ) to uphold the imposed motion by itself .",
    "otherwise , depending also on the human partner , the meta - system of robot and human may `` negotiate '' a joint motion pattern which might be left if the human quits the loop .",
    "this can be understood by realizing that many periodic patterns are consistent with eqs .",
    "[ [ eqn : controls ] , [ eqn : app : barlm ] ] .",
    "if the imposed patterns matches one of them then the robot is controlling this pattern by itself .",
    "in fact , in the experiments , one can well observe that a `` compliant '' human is intrigued to follow the system as much as its own intentions , ending up in an orchestrated human - machine dynamical pattern .",
    "the training of a robot by directly imposing motions is not new .",
    "the common approaches generate a kinematic trajectory which is afterwards translated into the motor commands by well known engineering methods .",
    "we argue that this method will run into severe difficulties due the peculiarities of our mtd system as discussed in sect .",
    "[ sec : mtd ] . on the contrary , in our approach",
    "we have an entrainment effect in the meta - system ( body plus controller ) which does not need kinematics and dynamical modeling at all .",
    "another aspect is given by the challenging task of deliberate control , like realizing a given behavior .",
    "let us consider the perspectives of our approach for that task .",
    "the idea is based on the observation that the meta - system ( the physical system with the controller regulating the energy feed - in ) has totally different physical properties than the `` bare '' or passive system ( motor power switched off ) . in particular , with @xmath51 , self - amplification is subdued so that the meta - system goes into a plastic aggregation state . in this specific regime , patterns are present as mere potentialities waiting to be excited .",
    "it is easy to conceive that through a second controller  let us call it the meta - controller  acting on the meta - system , it is more reliable to drive the meta - system toward those latent behaviors than by acting on the `` bare '' physical system .",
    "in fact , if we are able to influence the meta - system by hand , why not by just superimposing additional motor signals on the self - regulated meta - system .",
    "the use of the approach is encouraged by the mentioned ability of the meta - system to uphold a resilient working regime ( see above ) even under extreme external perturbations , preventing , for instance , shoulder dislocations .      as mentioned already above , with the transition operator @xmath18",
    ", the meta - system is particularly akin to periodic motions , i.e.  there is a plenitude of latent limit cycle attractors which , metaphorically speaking , wait for their excitation .",
    "the selection of a specific attractor is realized by the self - amplification of a dynamical seed , generically provided by a physical subsystem ( of the world ) with a time coherent internal dynamics . in other words ,",
    "the subsystem  by its internal dynamics  is piloting the meta - system into a resonant state , i.e.  a whole - system mode with defined frequency .",
    "this salient phenomenon is a direct consequence of giving the world the leading role in behavior generation . in the following experiments",
    ", we additionally feed in delayed sensor values which enhances the affinity for periodic behaviors , see sect .",
    "[ sec : periodicity ] .      in a first experiment ,",
    "we suspend a weight ( the bottle ) from the tip of the arm .",
    "the world in this experiment consists of the arm together with a physical subsystem  this pendulum  with a complex internal dynamics . with the pivot point at rest",
    ", the pendulum may realize ellipsoidal or even circular motion patterns with fixed frequency .",
    "with a driven pivot the pendulum is able of chaotic motions under certain trajectories of the pivot point . in any case , the motions of the weight exert small forces on the arm which change the spring tensions and thereby the sensor values . while being tiny , these reactions are systematic so that they may accumulate in @xmath52 .",
    "the emerging pathways in the feedback loop sensitize the meta - system to potential pendulum modes , readying itself for their self - amplification .    in video",
    "[ vid : bottle : swing ] it can be seen how latent velocity correlations are being amplified to end up in stable circular motion patterns of the weight .",
    "the experiment starts in a situation where the motor activities have settled to rest , interrupted by occasional bursts so that the bottle is excited to some minor pendulum motion .",
    "the thereby induced elongations of the springs induce the said self - amplification of latent pendulum modes as observed in the experiments , see also fig .",
    "[ fig : bottle : swing : stills ] .    .",
    "[ fig : bottle : swing : stills],title=\"fig : \" ] +    these findings corroborate our claim that the subsystem  by its internal dynamics  is piloting the meta - system into a resonant state , i.e.  a whole - system mode with defined frequency .",
    "this is also supported by the data recorded from the experiment . when analyzing the time lag between measured force and driving signal ( motor commands ) ,",
    "see fig .",
    "[ fig : bottle : swing : analysis](a ) , it becomes evident that initially bottle and arm are not in a fixed phase relation . during that interval ,",
    "the structure of the controller matrix @xmath27 changes strongly until the system reaches the rotational mode , see fig .",
    "[ fig : bottle : swing : analysis](c ) .",
    "this illustrates the dynamics of the controller to find a self - consistent behavior . without perturbation",
    "this oscillatory behavior may become stationary .",
    "however , later in the experiment the string of the pendulum was shortened such that a different sensorimotor coordination forms .",
    "an indicator that the oscillations are produced by the controller is found in the complex eigenvalues of the linearized internal dynamics @xmath18 as displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : bottle : swing : analysis](b ) . during the swinging mode",
    ", we find only 1 pair of significantly non - zero complex eigenvalues representing the main oscillatory component .",
    "this confirms our observations that low - dimensional behaviors emerge .",
    "+      in a next series of experiments we attached a bottle filled with some water to the tip of the arm in either horizontal or vertical orientation .",
    "these experiments are meant to support our hypothesis that the meta - system may become resonant with the internal dynamics of a subsystem , if the latter provides correlations over space and time .",
    "this internal dynamics is making itself felt by the inertial forces when the water is hitting either the walls or top and bottom of the bottle .",
    "these impacts cause a reaction of the springs and hence of the sensor values .",
    "this may increase correlations in @xmath18 , which enhances motions of the arm in coherence with these signals .",
    "this hypothesis is difficult to analyze by the data alone , but we can get an impression by changing the physics of the subsystem . in a first step ,",
    "see video  [ vid : bottle : shaking : horizontal : white ] , the bottle is filled only with a little water so that the reactions of the subsystem are weak .",
    "nevertheless , the meta - system is already reacting to the motions of the water inside the bottle , but the emerging modes are only metastable with a very short life time . each mode",
    "is followed by a short irregular regime until a new short - lived mode emerges through the interplay of the arm movements and the water .",
    "+    in the next step , the bottle is half - filled so that the reactive forces are much stronger . in both video  [ vid : bottle : shaking : horizontal ] and video  [ vid : bottle : shaking : vertical ] the modes are more pronounced and live much longer . in fig .",
    "[ fig : bartender : analysis ] we present the time series data for the horizontal case .",
    "one can see how from the initial resting position the arm starts to move until , after about 25 seconds , it reaches an oscillatory mode involving strong sensor reactions ( increased by the acting forces ) .",
    "interestingly , the modes are not only realized by the arm and the attached bottle but involve also the reactive motions of the post the arm is mounted on ( see video ) .",
    "the latter point can be seen if the post is fixed by hand in order to stop its swaying motion .",
    "then , in both videos , it can be seen that the mode breaks down immediately .",
    "obviously , the mode involves both physical objects the arm - shoulder system is attached to .",
    "this is not a surprise , as this system , by its dynamics , exerts forces on both the bottle and the post leading to correlated changes in spring tensions and sensor values .",
    "this effect is also seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : bartender : analysis](b , d ) where shortly after second 40 the eigenvalues change and the c matrix changes until it reaches about the same configuration at second 50 .",
    "as seen already at the handshake experiment , the arm can always by manually stopped and the behavior can be changed . at second 79",
    "the arm was stopped and brought to rest .",
    "after the release 3 seconds later a different mode appears , c.f .  the changed motor pattern in fig .  [ fig : bartender : analysis](a ) and the different @xmath27 matrix in  ( c ) . to conclude , the dynamics of the @xmath27 matrix is typically on a long transient ( fig .",
    "[ fig : bartender : analysis](d ) ) until it hits a self - consistent behavior .",
    "any perturbation or change in conditions leads to an adjustment of the controller and the behavior always aiming for a mode where high velocity correlations appear .",
    "the observed resonance phenomena have a close relationship to the concept of object affordances . as introduced by @xcite , affordances are action possibilities available in the environment to an individual . depending on its action capabilities ,",
    "affordances define the relation between an agent and its environment through its motor and sensing capabilities ( e.g. , graspable , movable , or eatable ) . in this sense , in the same way as a chair affords sitting or a knob affords twisting , we may say that the meta - system discovers the possibility to drive the attached pendulum into a circular motion by moving the pivot in a definite way .",
    "this is one affordance a pendulum can offer in that specific setting .",
    "interestingly , this discovery can only be made by the emerging whole - system activity with the pendulum on the basis of the very weak interactions in the arm - pendulum physical system . in the same sense , when giving the robot the half - filled bottle , through the response ( by the inertia forces ) of the water to the taken actions , the meta - system discovers shaking the bottle as one possible affordance .",
    "we expect that with different objects the meta - system may discover further affordances like the turning of a wheel as already observed in a simulated system , see @xcite .",
    "object affordances may form pre - requisites for prediction and planning and are important steps in the emergence of tool use up to generalization , abstraction , and even creativity in cognitive robots .",
    "we hope to support these ideas with our next experiments with the arm - shoulder system .",
    "the functionality of the present control paradigm essentially rests on two different scenarios . on the one hand",
    "we have seen a strong affinity for periodic motions like the pendulum or the bottle shaking modes .",
    "these are predominantly observed with time scales , defined by @xmath39 , of the expected periodicity .",
    "there , we observe that the dynamical operator @xmath18 is essentially constant and is qualified by ( a pair of ) complex eigenvalues determining the frequency of the oscillations .    with other time horizons , either shorter or not matching the period of a latent mode , we observed another amazing variety of behavioral patterns which give the impression as if the robot deliberately generates sequences of different poses , see video  [ vid : free : moving ] .",
    "this scenario is characterized by a @xmath18 that is strongly varying on the time scale of the behavior itself .",
    "though these sequences of movements look rather random , it is important to note that there is no artificial randomness implanted in the controller .",
    "instead , the controller is an explicit deterministic function of recent sensor values .",
    "so , we have a pseudo - random behavior with a strong bias caused by the physical properties of the meta - system .",
    "noteworthy , despite their pseudo - random character , these patterns are fully controlled as they are determined by their recent history in sensor space .",
    "so , a pattern can be reproduced by starting the system with the history recorded in an earlier experiment . in this sense ,",
    "motion patterns are reproducible and may be used in higher level functional architectures . in particular",
    ", this is of interest for generating behavior architectures of the arm like realizing a predefined trajectory or reaching toward a specific point .",
    "we strongly believe that this property can open new ways for controlling such complex systems , bypassing the need for modeling and concrete programming the behavior of the robot following the common paradigms of control .",
    "this paper discusses a novel approach for controlling systems with strong embodiment effects .",
    "instead of using specific goals or targets we aim at behavioral self - exploration of the system under control .",
    "desired behaviors can then be generated on top of such basic behavioral primitives .",
    "this is in contrast to the typical control approach where specific goals have to be met in an optimal fashion .",
    "for elastically actuated robotic systems , however , we are lacking analytical models and often have no direct way to specify a desired behavior , except as reward and punishment signal in reinforcement learning but this takes prohibitively long in the systems considered here .",
    "our approach creates behavior only based on the responses of the system in the most recent past in an online fashion .",
    "the essential new feature is the irreducible unity of the controller and the controlled as formulated by the pair of eqs .",
    "[ [ eqn : forward ] , [ eqn : dotxdotz ] ] .",
    "the controller is devoid of any system - related functionalities as it is given by a fixed , explicit and context - free function of the recent history of the sensor values . in this interplay between the controller and the controlled , fuelled by the positive feedback strength",
    ", the controller manages to identify and amplify tiny responses from the world outside itself . in our case study with the tendon - driven arm shoulder system , if the arm alone will realize a seemingly pseudo - random but fully controlled sequence of poses . but more interestingly , if the arm is extended by attaching objects with an internal dynamics of its own , the controller gets in a functional resonance with the object s internal dynamics : metaphorically speaking , with a half - filled bottle the system develops into a cocktail shaker and after attaching a pendulum to the tip of the arm , the controller , mediated by the arm , drives the pendulum into a circular mode .",
    "all these patterns emerge with great ease and in a natural and elegant way starting with @xmath49 as initial condition .",
    "the novelty of this approach can be expressed by the simple argument that comparable motion patterns can only be generated with existing controller paradigms if a great amount of knowledge about the system is available or after very long training times with handcrafted reward schemes .",
    "remember that the controller receives nothing but the sensor signals  the sum of tendon plus spring length , so the result is highly non - trivial .",
    "moreover , we have also given perspectives of how to extend this controller paradigm to goal oriented behavior by just superimposing additional motor signals on the self - regulated meta - system in its `` plastic aggregation state '' .",
    "this promises a qualitative leap in controlling such robotic systems .    as a perspective",
    ", the observed response of the system to the world s internal degrees of freedom  as demonstrated with the pendulum , e.g.  leads the way to an important generalization : equipping the robot with additional sensors reporting the spatial relation of its mechanical degrees of freedom to the structure of the environment , we expect a similar integration of those relations into the emerging behavioral modes . in a preliminary experiment , by integrating a camera this mechanism even lead to an active exploration of visuomotor coordination",
    ".    finally , let us discuss on which platforms our controller is likely to create useful behavior in some way or the other .",
    "first of all , the system has to provide sensory feedback about acting physical forces to make embodiment effects perceivable by the controller .",
    "this is , for instance , not the case if all perturbations are perfectly compensated by a low - level pid controller .",
    "secondly , there should be sensors reporting a similar quantity as used to control the actuators , e.g.   position sensor for position control or force sensors for force control .",
    "additional sensors are typically integrated into the loop if they show a definite response ( correlation ) to the motor patterns .",
    "thirdly , the behaviors of interest should be oscillatory .",
    "since we only need the main sensor - to - motor wiring information about the particular robot ( which can also be learned ) and do not any other specific information , we expect our system to work with a wide variety of machines including soft robots , but this remains for future research .",
    "in this section we derive the controller matrix @xmath27 , discuss the role of the sensor to motor mapping matrix @xmath9 , and give the update rule for @xmath27 .      in order to derive eq .  , we need to predict @xmath53 on the basis of the previous sensor values . our idea is based on an operator   is simply a matrix but we call it an operator for emphasizing the dependence on the states it is operating on . ] @xmath54 where @xmath55 , which describes the transition @xmath56 as @xmath57 as to notation , we remark that with any two column vectors @xmath58 and @xmath59 , @xmath60 is the scalar product and @xmath61 is a matrix with elements @xmath62 . in particular , @xmath63 and @xmath64 , which corroborates eq .  .",
    "of course , @xmath65 can not be used directly as it involves the future .",
    "the idea is to generalize that expression in a way which is consistent for trajectories with some time coherence . here",
    ", we replace @xmath40 with its moving average , defined as @xmath66 where @xmath20 defines the time scale for the extension of the past and @xmath67 and @xmath68 are normalization and weighting factors , respectively , and we used @xmath69 in the last step .",
    "writing @xmath70 for the i - th component of the vector @xmath71 and similarly for @xmath72 , the matrix elements of @xmath72 are @xmath73 and in shorthand @xmath74 , where @xmath75 are weighting factors .",
    "note that @xmath18 does not any longer involve the future as it is shifted by one step in time and that the time coherence can be controlled by the decay term @xmath39 .",
    "remembering that @xmath76 we see that @xmath18 is given by the history of the sensor values in a definite way .",
    "we may now use eq .   as dynamical operator",
    "so that @xmath77 generates a time series : given the history @xmath78 , we get the future evolution of @xmath79 by iterating eq .  .",
    "note that the history until @xmath0 defines the future of the time series in a deterministic way so that there are as many time series as there are different histories .",
    "because of this generality , we may call eq .   with eq .",
    "a template defining a certain class of time series .",
    "note there are no parameters involved , apart from the time scale of the history as set by @xmath39 . using eq .",
    "we may express the future state @xmath80 in terms of its history . taking the time derivative of eq .",
    "yields @xmath81 , assuming @xmath9 is constant . putting @xmath82 where @xmath30 is the squashing function , we obtain for the internal control variable @xmath83 , ignoring the nonlinearity of the squashing function @xmath84 where @xmath85 in a final step we have to relate @xmath86 to @xmath83 in a way that is consistent with the postulated slowly varying nature of @xmath18 . in this paper",
    "we use the most simple postulate , i.e.  omit the residual time dependence of c altogether . using the simple relation @xmath87 and analogously for @xmath88",
    ", we define our controller as @xmath89 where @xmath90 is an overall bias that can be set arbitrarily , each @xmath90 leading to a different control strategy .",
    "this versatility is a direct result of working with the @xmath79 . @xmath90",
    "may also be adapted following a heuristics like avoiding a saturation regions of the squashing function or coping with an overall bias of the system .",
    "@xmath91 plays the role of a sensor bias . in this paper , @xmath92 as our systems are centered around @xmath93 .",
    "otherwise it can be adapted is the state at time @xmath94 . however , even by very small perturbations or the residual time dependence of @xmath27 , the memory of the initial state is soon lost so that we are free to choose the sensor bias . ] similarly to @xmath90 . in the experiments we used the controller @xmath95 throughout , where @xmath96 .    for a brief discussion",
    "we assume that @xmath97 follows a harmonic oscillation with period @xmath98 and ask whether this is consistent with the explicit form of @xmath18 as given by eq .  .",
    "linearizing eq .   so that @xmath99 , we have to consider the role of @xmath18 as applied to @xmath100 .",
    "considering eq .   together with @xmath101 and @xmath102 , we may argue  , i.e.  the weighting factors @xmath103 are independent of @xmath42 . ] that @xmath104 .",
    "this crude argument which repeats for each half - period shows that the controller is consistent with the stipulated sensor dynamics , provided the mapping @xmath9 can translate this into appropriate motor commands .",
    "note also that the time smoothing in @xmath18 does not mean a time smoothed dynamics as the above argument remains valid for any frequency ( below the nyquist frequency for the given update rate ) .",
    "central to the approach is the template dynamics eq .  .",
    "in general , any real dynamics will not fit into that template , i.e.  the true dynamics in sensor space generated by the robot can be written as @xmath105 where @xmath18 is given by eq .   in terms of the real trajectory as generated by eq .  .",
    "let us now hypothetically assume that @xmath6 represents exactly the sensor response of the arm to the motor actions , i.e.  assume @xmath106 with @xmath107 and @xmath108 .",
    "then , the pair of eqs .  [ [ eqn : forward ] , [ eqn : dotxdotz ] ] degenerates into a triviality so that the system can realize any trajectory .",
    "so , the actual point of interest is the mismatch , represented by @xmath8 , between true behavior and the template . as a rule of thumb",
    "we postulate that the controller is able to realize a trajectory the better the smaller @xmath8 .",
    "the mismatch @xmath8 directly reflects the physical reactions of the meta - system to the motor actions . in this light , trajectories are more stable for more systematic reactions , involving the degrees of freedom of the physical system in a coherent manner .",
    "this is what we may observe in the experiments .",
    "the standard version is that @xmath9 is to reflect just the most basic causal relations between sensor and motor signals .",
    "@xmath9 can be learned in simple off - line motor babbling scenarios , see  @xcite for examples . in this paper",
    ", we used the relation between motor encoder and tendon length which is a one - to - one mapping , hence @xmath9 is the unit matrix ( identity operator ) .",
    "this choice also underlines the difference between the matrix @xmath9 and the usual understanding of an internal inverse model : while the latter is to reflect the mapping from sensors to motors as precisely as possible , @xmath9 determines @xmath8the mismatch between template and true dynamics which determines both the self - exploration rate and the regularity of the generated motion patterns as a ( very complex ) function of the character parameters ( @xmath39 , @xmath36 ) .",
    "more details on this search and converge paradigm may be found in  @xcite .      in order to make the meta - system more attractive for motion patterns of a certain period @xmath98",
    ", we introduce a vector @xmath109 of delay sensor values together with a second controller matrix @xmath110 and define the vector of the motor commands as @xmath111 where , before normalization , @xmath112 and @xmath113 transforms motor values at time @xmath0 into sensor values at time @xmath114 .",
    "note , that @xmath113 can be different than @xmath115 .",
    "if the system is in a periodic regime we have @xmath116 and thus also @xmath117 .",
    "choosing @xmath118 , we find @xmath119 so that , before the normalization , the argument of the squashing function is given by @xmath120 .",
    "hence , there is a constructive interference over the half period so that periodic patterns are getting favored for self - amplification .",
    "this argument holds true also for any multiple of the fundamental period @xmath98 .      in the practical applications done so far",
    ", we identified a number of tweaks for coping with peculiarities of the approach .",
    "one is the choice of the time lag between @xmath100 and @xmath11 which was @xmath121 above .",
    "however , there is no hindrance to introduce a certain lag @xmath122 so that @xmath123 .",
    "this is helpful in order to adapt the system to the actual update rate and in particular for enhancing the chance for periodic patterns .",
    "it also influences to some extent the frequency of such patterns .",
    "another point concerns the regularization of the normalization factors which have different effects for either the normalization of @xmath27 or that of @xmath18 which was introduced with the @xmath103 factors eq .  .",
    "as the former normalization acts on @xmath27 directly , its effect is delayed on the time scale given by @xmath39 .",
    "the normalization of @xmath79 on its hand also needs some regularization , i.e.  we have to replace the factor @xmath28 as @xmath124 where @xmath125 may run in principle from @xmath126 down to a minimal value determined by the discretization of the sensor values . however , very small @xmath79 are enlarged up to a factor @xmath127 and dominate in this way the definition of @xmath27 .",
    "this is not helpful as in most cases the very small velocities arise from e.g.  sensor noise , which tends to destroy the already reached self - amplification of latent behavior . in practice , it is therefore helpful to keep the regularization effect in bounds . in other words , while we were using @xmath128 for this paper , values of @xmath129 seem to work better in current experiments",
    ".      we can also give an update rule for @xmath27 as @xmath130 using @xmath131 or its regularized version given by eq .  .",
    "with discrete time , we write the update of @xmath27 as @xmath132 which becomes stationary if @xmath133 .",
    "we thank alois knoll for inviting us to work with the myorobotic arm - shoulder system at the tum .",
    "special thanks goes also to rafael hostettler for helping us with the robot and control framework .",
    "rd thanks for the hospitality at the max - planck - institute and for helpful discussions with nihat ay and keyan zahedi .",
    "gm received funding from the people programme ( marie curie actions ) of the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp7/2007 - 2013 ) under rea grant agreement no .",
    "[ 291734 ] .",
    "a.  baranes and p .- y .",
    "oudeyer . .",
    "_ robotics and autonomous systems _ , 610 ( 1):0 6973 , jan . 2013 .",
    "doi : 10.1016/j.robot.2012.05.008 .",
    "j.  bongard .",
    "using robots to investigate the evolution of adaptive behavior . _ current opinion in behavioral sciences _ , 6:0 168173 , 2015 .",
    "r.  der and g.  martius .",
    "novel plasticity rule can explain the development of sensorimotor intelligence .",
    "_ proceedings of the national academy of sciences _ , 1120 ( 45):0 e6224e6232 , 2015 .",
    "doi : 10.1073/pnas.1508400112",
    ". t.  erez , k.  lowrey , y.  tassa , v.  kumar , s.  kolev , and e.  todorov .",
    "an integrated system for real - time model predictive control of humanoid robots . in _ humanoid robots ( humanoids ) , 2013 13th ieee - ras international conference on _ , pages 292299 .",
    "ieee , 2013 .",
    "s.  kim , c.  laschi , and b.  trimmer .",
    "soft robotics : a bioinspired evolution in robotics . _ trends in biotechnology _ , 310 ( 5):0 287  294 , 2013 .",
    "issn 0167 - 7799 .",
    "doi : http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tibtech.2013.03.002 .",
    "t.  kozuki , h.  mizoguchi , y.  asano , m.  osada , t.  shirai , u.  junichi , y.  nakanishi , k.  okada , and m.  inaba .",
    "design methodology for the thorax and shoulder of human mimetic musculoskeletal humanoid kenshiro -a thorax structure with rib like surface - . in _",
    "2012 ieee / rsj international conference on intelligent robots and systems _ , pages 36873692 , oct 2012 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/iros.2012.6386166 .",
    "d.  lau , d.  oetomo , and s.  k. halgamuge .",
    "generalized modeling of multilink cable - driven manipulators with arbitrary routing using the cable - routing matrix .",
    "_ ieee transactions on robotics _ , 290 ( 5):0 11021113 , oct 2013 .",
    "issn 1552 - 3098 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/tro.2013.2264866 .",
    "d.  lau , j.  eden , d.  oetomo , and s.  k. halgamuge .",
    "musculoskeletal static workspace analysis of the human shoulder as a cable - driven robot . _ ieee / asme transactions on mechatronics _ , 200 ( 2):0 978984 , april 2015",
    ". issn 1083 - 4435 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/tmech.2013.2295120 .",
    "g.  martius , r.  der , and n.  ay .",
    "information driven self - organization of complex robotic behaviors . _ plos one _ , 80 ( 5):0 e63400 , 2013 .",
    "doi : 10.1371/journal.pone.0063400 .",
    "i.  mordatch , e.  todorov , and z.  popovic .",
    "discovery of complex behaviors through contact - invariant optimization .",
    "_ acm trans . graph .",
    "_ , 310 ( 4):0 43 , 2012 .",
    "y.  nakanishi , s.  ohta , t.  shirai , y.  asano , t.  kozuki , y.  kakehashi , h.  mizoguchi , t.  kurotobi , y.  motegi , k.  sasabuchi , et  al . design approach of biologically - inspired musculoskeletal humanoids . _ international journal of advanced robotic systems _ ,",
    "10 , 2013 .",
    "v.  potkonjak , k.  m. jovanovic , p.  milosavljevic , n.  bascarevic , and o.  holland .",
    "the puller - follower control concept in the multi - jointed robot body with antagonistically coupled compliant drives . in _ iasted international conference on robotics _ , pages 375381 , 2011 .",
    "v.  potkonjak , b.  svetozarevic , k.  jovanovic , and o.  holland .",
    "anthropomimetic robot with passive compliance - contact dynamics and control . in _",
    "control & automation ( med ) , 2011 19th mediterranean conference on _ , pages 10591064 .",
    "ieee , 2011 .",
    "m.  raibert , k.  blankespoor , g.  nelson , r.  playter , et  al .",
    "bigdog , the rough - terrain quadruped robot . in _ proceedings of the 17th world",
    "congress international federation of automation and control _ , number  1 in 17 , pages 1082210825 , 2008 .",
    "b.  sndor , t.  jahn , l.  martin , and c.  gros .",
    "the sensorimotor loop as a dynamical system : how regular motion primitives may emerge from self - organized limit cycles . _ frontiers in robotics and ai _ , 20 ( 31 ) , 2015 .",
    "issn 2296 - 9144 .",
    "doi : 10.3389/frobt.2015.00031 .",
    "j.  schmidhuber",
    ". curious model - building control systems . in _ proc .  ijcnn _ , pages 14581463 .",
    "ieee , 1991 .",
    "s.  wittmeier , c.  alessandro , n.  bascarevic , k.  dalamagkidis , d.  devereux , a.  diamond , m.  jntsch , k.  jovanovic , r.  knight , h.  g. marques , p.  milosavljevic , b.  mitra , b.  svetozarevic , v.  potkonjak , r.  pfeifer , a.  knoll , and o.  holland . toward",
    "anthropomimetic robotics : development , simulation , and control of a musculoskeletal torso .",
    "_ artificial life _ , 190 ( 1):0 171193 , 2012 .",
    "issn 1064 - 5462 .",
    "doi : 10.1162/artl_a_00088 .",
    "23186343 .",
    "s.  wittmeier , a.  gaschler , m.  jntsch , k.  dalamagkidis , and a.  knoll .",
    "calibration of a physics - based model of an anthropomimetic robot using evolution strategies . in _",
    "intelligent robots and systems ( iros ) _ , pages 445450 .",
    "ieee , 2012 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with the accelerated development of robot technologies , optimal control becomes one of the central themes of research . in traditional approaches , </S>",
    "<S> the controller , by its internal functionality , finds appropriate actions on the basis of the history of sensor values , guided by the goals , intentions , objectives , learning schemes , and so on planted into it . </S>",
    "<S> the idea is that the controller controls the world  the body plus its environment  as reliably as possible . </S>",
    "<S> however , in elastically actuated robots this approach faces severe difficulties . this paper advocates for a new paradigm of self - organized control . </S>",
    "<S> the paper presents a solution with a controller that is devoid of any functionalities of its own , given by a fixed , explicit and context - free function of the recent history of the sensor values . </S>",
    "<S> when applying this controller to a muscle - tendon driven arm - shoulder system from the myorobotics toolkit , we observe a vast variety of self - organized behavior patterns : when left alone , the arm realizes pseudo - random sequences of different poses but one can also manipulate the system into definite motion patterns . </S>",
    "<S> but most interestingly , after attaching an object , the controller gets in a functional resonance with the object s internal dynamics : when given a half - filled bottle , the system spontaneously starts shaking the bottle so that maximum response from the dynamics of the water is being generated . after attaching a pendulum to the arm , the controller drives the pendulum into a circular mode . in this way </S>",
    "<S> , the robot discovers dynamical affordances of objects its body is interacting with . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss perspectives for using this controller paradigm for intention driven behavior generation .    </S>",
    "<S> keywords : self - organization , robot control , musculoskeletal , tendon - driven , learning , anthropomimetic , self - exploration </S>"
  ]
}