{
  "article_text": [
    "the recent detection of a gravitational wave transient from the inspiral of a binary black - hole system @xcite opens a new era in observations of the universe .",
    "while the existence of gravitational waves had been inferred from observations of binary pulsar systems @xcite , for the first time , ground - based , laser interferometeric experiments have made it possible to observe a binary black hole system ( bh - bh ) merger and infer its parameters independently of electromagnetic observations .",
    "the detection of a gravitational wave transient , gw150914 , by the laser interferometer gravitational - wave observatory ( ligo , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) was reported on 11th feb 2016 .",
    "detected on 14th september 2015 , during the first advanced - ligo operational run , the transient s characteristics are consistent with the inspiral , merger and ring - down of a binary system comprising two black holes , with estimated masses of @xmath6 and @xmath7m@xmath8 @xcite .",
    "this event constitutes the first detection of gravitational wave emission , and is notable in that it represents a binary black hole ( bh - bh ) merger , rather than the neutron star - neutron star ( ns - ns ) mergers expected to be more common ( if less luminous ) sources at ligo frequencies and sensitivities ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , although it was predicted by some that bh - bh mergers would be more likely @xcite .",
    "the event was not securely localised in electromagnetic follow - up ( although see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and hence its host galaxy , and the stellar population that generated it , remains unidentified .",
    "nearly all the black holes in the universe are thought to be the end result of stellar evolution",
    ". the only other source may be primordial black holes formed during the big bang ; these would only occur if density perturbations are great enough that gravitational collapse would occur during the early universe @xcite .",
    "massive stars with initial masses @xmath9 create sufficiently massive cores at the end of their luminous lifetimes that they can not avoid collapse to black holes under self - gravity , although stars with masses above @xmath10 at low metallicities may undergo pair - instability supernovae and leave no remnant ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "massive stars that are below @xmath11 or those that experience a binary interaction instead collapse to a neutron star remnant",
    ". this neutron star may then collapse into a black hole as a result of mass transfer from a binary companion .",
    "predicting the rates of formation and merger of black - hole systems thus requires stellar population synthesis : the process by which stellar evolution models are combined and weighted according to an initial mass function .",
    "such models have a long history ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "today there is growing evidence that most massive stars are in binary or multiple systems , with 70 per cent of massive stars having their evolution affected by binary interactions as shown by direct and indirect observations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the presence of a nearby stellar companion can cause a star to experience very different evolutionary pathways to those of isolated stars .",
    "in general these complicate stellar evolution , allowing extra opportunities for mass loss and mass gain",
    ".    there are several mature binary population synthesis codes world - wide ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "most have been used to make predictions for the merger rates of compact objects and the mass range for such mergers ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . with the detection of gw 150914 we now have a first observational datum to compare against such models",
    "; a situation analogous to the first detection of a supernova progenitor star ( that of sn 1987a , now known to be a rare progenitor type ) in pre - explosion imaging which provided an immediate constraint on stellar models @xcite . while we should exercise caution , since gw 150914 may prove similarly atypical of its population , it is nonetheless useful to analyse the detection in the light of theory .    in this article , we calculate the expected rate and parameters for bh - bh mergers from our bpass v2.0 models , and how these vary with initial metallicity of the stellar population . in section",
    "[ sec : method ] we describe the bpass stellar population synthesis code and the numerical method employed in this analysis . in section [ sec : results1 ] we present rates and timescales for binary black hole mergers .",
    "we also identify a metallicity cut - off , indicating that the progenitor system likely formed in a low - metallicity environment , as predicted by @xcite . in section [ sec :",
    "ratio ] we show that , at low metallicities , the rate of black hole mergers peak for black hole binaries with near equal mass objects , similar to the reported mass ratio of the progenitors of gw150914 .",
    "finally , in section [ sec : follow - up ] we discuss the implications for searching for electromagnetic counterparts of such events , before presenting our conclusions in section [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "the binary population and spectral synthesis , bpass , code was first discussed in @xcite , which also outlines modifications to the cambridge stars code used to create the stellar evolution models .",
    "a key difference between bpass and most other codes is our use of a large grid of 250,000 stellar models to follow the evolution of interacting binary stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , rather than using the approximation methods employed by rapid population synthesis codes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the rapid method allows for the uncertainties of binary evolution and their impact on predictions to be explored ; this would be too computationally intensive for detailed stellar models .",
    "the use of detailed models , on the other hand , allow us to accurately follow how the stellar envelope responds to mass loss ",
    "key to determining the eventual mass and fate of the star .",
    "the spectral synthesis of stellar populations from individual stellar models was described in @xcite , while a study of the effect of supernova kicks on the stellar populations and supernovae was described in @xcite .",
    "many of the results for the code are available at ` http://bpass.auckland.ac.nz ` .",
    "bpass models have been tested by the authors and others against resolved and unresolved massive stellar populations in our galaxy , nearby galaxies and those at high redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "they have also been tested against directly detected sn progenitors and relative sn rates ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore we have recently released version 2.0 of bpass ( * ? ? ?",
    "* eldridge et al . , in prep . ) .",
    "this incorporates many refinements to the code and its outputs compared to the earlier versions .",
    "the results of bpass v2.0 have already further demonstrated the improvement in agreement between observations and stellar population models that arises from the inclusion of interacting binaries ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "while bpass has been described in detail previously we provide a detailed summary of bpass here for those unacquainted with the code .",
    "we use an initial - mass function ( imf ) based on @xcite , with a power - law slope of -1.3 between initial masses of 0.1 to 0.5m@xmath8 and a slope of -2.35 from 0.5 to 300m@xmath8 . the stellar mass function",
    "therefore dictates that less massive stars are more numerous and therefore fewer massive remnants and black holes are generated than in a standard , unbroken salpeter imf .",
    "this is combined with an initial - mass ratio of @xmath12 that is uniformly distributed between 0 to 1 .",
    "all secondary stars contribute to the stellar mass but we do not include a companion in the total stellar mass estimate if its initial mass is less than 0.1m@xmath8 .",
    "key refinements in bpass v2.0 ( relative to the v1.1 models discussed in * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that affect the results of this paper are as follows .",
    "first we increase the number of models we have for our entire population from 15,000 detailed stellar evolution models to 250,000 which represents several years of computational time if run on a single processor .",
    "this increase allows us to sample the initial parameter space for our initial masses at a greater resolution .",
    "we have a grid of 68 initial primary masses from @xmath13 to 300m@xmath8 , 9 values for the mass ratio , q , from @xmath14 to 0.9 and 21 initial periods from 1 day to 10000 days we also increase our grid of of initial metallicities to @xmath15 , 0.0001 , 0.001 , 0.002 , 0.003 , 0.004 , 0.006 , 0.008 , 0.010 , 0.014 , 0.020 , 0.030 and 0.040 .",
    "the initial - period distribution is uniformly distributed in logarithm of the period from 1 day to @xmath16 days .",
    "we note that by observing o stars in the galaxy , @xcite found that the observed period distribution is somewhat steeper with a bias towards more close binary systems .",
    "however @xcite found a flatter period distribution in the cygnus ob2 association that is consistent with opik s law , although their results did also suggest a slight preference for short period systems .",
    "the uncertainty in assumed period distribution is degenerate with uncertainties in the assumed model to handle roche - lobe overflow , common - envelope evolution , tides and other binary specific processes .",
    "furthermore it is unknown whether the observed period distributions should be extended to all stellar masses .",
    "we can gain some insight into the effect of how varying the initial period distribution will effect our results by looking at the work of @xcite who find that the rates of gravitational wave events will increase by a factor of two if a distribution favouring short periods is used .",
    "therefore we can say that any predictions for our code are most likely a lower estimate on the possible rate .",
    "we assume orbits are circular , or rather that the semi - latus rectum distribution is flat .",
    "this can be assumed because , as shown by @xcite , the outcome of the interactions of systems with the same semilatus rectum is almost independent of eccentricity .",
    "this is also equivalent of assuming that systems are circularised before interactions by tides .",
    "we only include tides in our evolution models when a star fills its roche - lobe .",
    "then we assume tidal forces are strong and the star s rotation quickly synchronises with the orbit .",
    "this is of course approximate and there are recent studies have begun to explore how mass transfer may be different in eccentric systems @xcite .",
    "however we note that the bpass models have been tested to see if they can reproduce an observed binary system with a slight eccentricity even after mass transfer @xcite .",
    "we scale the mass - loss rates applied from those observed in the local universe , such that @xmath17 and @xmath18 ( except in the case of ob stars where @xmath19 , see * ? ? ?",
    "there is little consensus in the literature regarding the definition of solar metallicity .",
    "@xcite , for example , suggest the metal fraction in the sun is rather higher than usually assumed , while some authors @xcite suggest that solar metal abundances should be revised downwards to closer to z = 0.014 ( also appropriate for massive stars within 500pc of the sun , * ? ? ?",
    "we retain @xmath20 for consistency with the empirical mass - loss rates which were originally scaled from this value .",
    "we note that at the lowest metallicities of our models the small uncertainty in where we scale the mass - loss rates will cause only small changes in the mass - loss rates due to stellar winds . at the lowest metallicities mass - loss",
    "is primarily driven by binary interactions .",
    "a key feature of the bpass models that sets them apart from others , except the brussels code @xcite , is that all the interacting binary evolution models are evolved in a full detailed stellar evolution code that is based on the cambridge stars code and described in detail in @xcite .",
    "this greatly increases our computational needs with the stellar models each taking several minutes to calculate rather than fractions of a second .",
    "the v2.0 models in this paper represent a total computing time on a single computer of over 5 years .",
    "however while we have a computational cost and therefore have to make assumptions , such as circular orbits , we have significant gain in the accuracy of the stellar evolution models .",
    "we find differences in how the stellar envelope responds to mass loss relative to rapid population synthesis , as discussed in @xcite . a comparison between our models and those of a rapid population synthesis code show that our models would explode as red or yellow supergiants while a rapid code assumed they would become wolf - rayet stars .",
    "we note we only compute one star in detail at a time .",
    "this is because stars of very different masses have different evolutionary timescales .",
    "therefore computational time would be wasted on calculating the evolution of a 1m@xmath8 secondary star at the same time as a 10m@xmath8 primary .",
    "we therefore calculate the primary evolution first , using the single star rapid evolution equations of @xcite to approximate the secondary s evolution .",
    "we then recalculate the secondary s evolution in the same detailed code either as a single star or in a binary with a compact remnant depending on whether the binary is bound or unbound .",
    "we also do not interpolate between these detailed models due to the non - linear nature of binary evolution .",
    "the entire scheme is discussed in greater detail in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "one further refinement is vital for this work , that is the treatment of the secondary models . in most supernovae ,",
    "a binary is unbound in the first supernova and thus the secondary evolves afterwards as a single star .",
    "however in the case of those that remain bound bpass selects from a grid of binary models where the secondary is a compact remnant to represent the further evolution of what was originally the secondary star . due to computational constraints in @xcite we only assumed three masses for compact remnants , 0.6 , 1.4 and 3m@xmath8 for white dwarfs , neutron stars and black holes . in bpass",
    "v2.0 we now calculate the full range of possible secondary evolution in binaries , allowing for a range of masses for the compact remnant from 0.1 to 300m@xmath8 .",
    "we stress that this is different to rapid codes that would typically take the evolutionary outcome of the secondary and continue to evolve it . due to our use of detailed stellar evolution models",
    "this is still not computationally feasible .",
    "our extended selection of secondary models allow us to follow evolution up to the formation of massive double black hole binaries .",
    "we follow the evolution and include mass - transfer when a star fills its roche - lobe , full details are given @xcite .",
    "we assume any mass lost from the primary is transferred to the secondary but this can only be accreted by the secondary on a thermal timescale , any extra mass is lost from the system .",
    "if the star filling its roche - lobe engulfs the other star we assume common - envelope evolution occurs . in a detailed stellar evolution code we can not simply remove the stellar envelope instantaneously ( as described in * ? ? ?",
    "instead we increase the mass - loss rate to as high as numerically possible . then at each timestep",
    "we calculate the binding energy of material lost in our common - envelope wind and remove this from the orbital energy of the star s core and the secondary star .",
    "if the secondary star fills its roche - lobe we merge the two stars together .",
    "this is , of course , approximate and different to the typical implementation in other models but a reasonable approximation .",
    "it is likely to be one of the sources of differences between our models and those of others .",
    "a consequence of our method is that it is not straightforward to vary the physics of binary interactions , since this would require recalculation of the entire model set . while we do explore some key parameters , such as imf , with different model grids , we do not vary others , such as those controlling common envelope evolution",
    ".      our models only account for rotationally induced mixing in a simple way .",
    "we assume that if a secondary star in one of our models accretes more than 5 per cent of its initial mass and it is more massive than 2m@xmath8 then the star is spun - up to critical rotation and is rejuvenated due to strong rotational mixing .",
    "that is , it evolves from the time of mass transfer as a zero - age main sequence star ( this is similar to the method used by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . at high metallicities",
    "we assume that the star quickly spins down by losing angular momentum it its wind so that there are no further consequences to evolution .",
    "however with weaker winds at lower metallicity , @xmath21 , we assume that the spin down occurs less rapidly and so the star is fully mixed on the main - sequence and burns all its hydrogen to helium .",
    "we assume the star must have an effective initial mass after accretion @xmath22m@xmath8 for this evolution for occur .",
    "these limits were taken from the work of .",
    "we note that we have discussed the importance of these quasi - homogeneously evolving ( qhe ) stars in greater detail in @xcite and @xcite showing there is strong observational evidence they exist .",
    "the key difference we find from qhe changing the formation of bh - bh binaries in our models is that it greatly increases the chance that the second black hole to form is the more massive remnant . because a qhe star never evolves to the rsg phase",
    "the mass loss it experiences is less and more of the mass accreted by the secondary is retained during the star s evolution .",
    "furthermore our qhe is the result of mass transfer only . @xcite and invoke a different mechanism to create qhe stars .",
    "they consider the closest binaries with the shortest rotation periods , of the order of a day , so that both stars experience qhe with the rapid rotation induced due to tidal interactions between the stars .",
    "while this is a very plausible pathway , we have not yet included this in our standard bpass evolution models . here",
    "we concentrate on the mass - transfer pathway to qhe .",
    "the rates we predict here might still be further boosted if we were to include such additional pathways . at the current time in our population the binaries in @xcite and are likely to result in mergers or roche - lobe overflow because we do not assume those stars experience qhe due to tidal forces .",
    "finally we note that we assume qhe is due to rotational mixing and it different from the type of chemically homogeneous evolution found in models of very massive stars , @xmath23 .",
    "@xcite find such stars have very large convective cores so that mass - loss can expose material from the core rapidly without the need for rotational mixing .      to estimate remnant masses our stellar models produce we use the method described in @xcite .",
    "we calculate how the binding energy of the star varies with stellar radius .",
    "we assign as ejecta all material that is above the point where the binding energy is equal to @xmath24ergs .",
    "we assume a black hole is formed when the remnant mass is above 3m@xmath8 , otherwise we assume a neutron star forms with a mass of 1.4m@xmath8 . while this method is approximate ,",
    "it does give a a reasonable estimate for the size of the remnant and agrees with other predictions for the initial masses when neutron stars or black holes are formed during core - collapse ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we note that the link between final remnant mass and initial mass can be highly non - linear .",
    "for example , stars above @xmath25m@xmath8 form black holes , while stars below form neutron stars .",
    "however at higher initial masses , mass - loss can still lead to the formation of neutron stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we do not include remnants from stars that end their evolution with helium core masses between 64 to 133m@xmath8 which are thought to explode in pair - instability sne and leave no remnant @xcite .",
    "once the remnant and its mass is determined we use the kick distribution of @xcite to pick a kick velocity and direction at random . for black hole kicks",
    "we assume a momentum distribution and reduce the kick velocity by multiplying it by 1.4m@xmath8 and dividing by the black hole mass .",
    "we do this because of the growing evidence as discussed by @xcite that black - hole kicks are smaller than those of neutron stars .",
    "the full method of determining kicks and the fate of the binary when a sn occurs within it are described in @xcite .",
    "ranges while the dotted line is the maximum black hole mass .",
    "the red lines are for single star models and the black lines are for our binary models .",
    "the blue line represents the mean mass of black holes that remain in binary systems .",
    "the solid thick vertical black lines with asterisks represent the black hole masses collated in @xcite . while the blue asterisk and lines represent the galactic black hole masses from @xcite .",
    "since the metallicities of galactic black hole progenitors are unconstrained , we show them as lying close to z=0.02 , with small offsets for clarity .",
    "vertical lines indicate two widely used values for solar metallicity .",
    "we also plot the mean mass of these galactic black - hole binaries in the green square and the mean mass of the single black - hole candidates identified from gravitational microlensing by @xcite in the orange square .",
    "the two thin horizontal lines indicate the masses of the black holes from gw150914.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    to provide some test of the accuracy of this estimation we have compared our predicted black hole masses to those observed in nature in figure [ figbhmass ] .",
    "we see that the black hole masses predicted by our single star and binary star populations are similar and agree with the increasing trend of black hole masses with metallicity from the results of @xcite .",
    "there have also been some suggestions that there is a gap in the black hole masses expected from stellar evolution , i.e. that there are no black holes in the mass range between 3 to 5m@xmath8 @xcite .",
    "we see in figure [ figbhmass ] that fewer than half of all black holes should have masses in this range in our galaxy . also binary systems containing these objects are more likely to become unbound as they will have larger kicks in our population under our assumptions for natal black hole kicks .",
    "we show in figure [ figbhmass ] the mean mass of black holes in binary systems .",
    "this is higher than the overall mean and the observed black holes do lie closer to this line .",
    "future observing campaigns for mergers involving black holes will show if there are such systems .",
    "we note here that we may over predict the bh - bh merger rate at higher metallicities because we include these objects .",
    "recently @xcite have detailed a number of candidate single compact remnants in the galaxy discovered via gravitational microlensing .",
    "they found no evidence for a gap in the mass of remnants between neutron stars and black holes as suggested by @xcite .",
    "we have estimated a mean mass for single / runaway black - holes from the sample of @xcite .",
    "we have assumed the same minimum mass for an object to be a black hole as in our models of 3m@xmath8 .",
    "the mean is then based on seven objects with the most massive being 9.3@xmath26m@xmath8 .",
    "there are a further 3 objects in their sample between 2 and 3@xmath27 , including these would reduce to mean to 3.8m@xmath8 .",
    "we see that this mean is close to the mean black hole mass predicted at solar metallicity for our model populations .",
    "again the sample is small but future events from gravitational microlensing will increase our understanding of black hole formation as much as future gravitational wave sources .",
    "we further note that while the mean black hole mass from a binary population is slightly less than that from a single star population , our models show the maximum mass of a black hole is greater from our binary populations .",
    "this is because mergers and mass transfer in our models allow stars to regain some of their lost mass from a companion and also to create stars more massive than our assumed 300m@xmath8 upper mass limit , although all binary evolution codes include this possibility .",
    "also all codes include the mass of the black holes being able to increase via accretion from their companion star ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we also find that , while @xcite suggest binary interactions only lead to less massive black holes in a population for the specific case of forming close massive black - hole binaries we find this situation is not that simple .",
    "we find that some interacting binaries actually lead to a more massive black hole than possible for a star of the same mass from single - star evolution .",
    "we find that in some cases a binary interaction during or before first dredge - up ( i.e. , when the star becomes a red supergiant ) in a model can prevent or weaken dredge - up .",
    "this leads to a more massive helium core for the stellar model than expected if it was single , and therefore eventually a more massive black hole .",
    "this increase of the final black hole mass is of the order of 10 per cent .",
    "we believe this difference is due to our use of a detailed stellar evolution code and thus the ability to follow how the development and extent of convective zones within the stellar interior are affected by a binary interaction . without this , so subtle an effect might be missed .",
    "our only addition to the bpass code specifically predict the merger rate of black - hole binaries has been to use the final orbital parameters after the second supernova in the binary system to calculate how long it will take for the two black - holes to merge . in common with @xcite",
    ", we use the analytic form of @xcite to calculate this merger time .",
    "peters gives two limits for the merger time for low and high eccentricity orbits .",
    "for rapid computation of our population we interpolate between these two limits linearly . while a full solution for evolution over time might give a more precise solution , the uncertainties introduced by interpolation are smaller than those implicit in the assumptions and uncertainties involved in other aspects of stellar population synthesis .        to calculate the delay time for a black hole merger event we calculate an evolution time , @xmath28 , defined as the interval after the onset of star formation required for the progenitor stars to evolve and create the two black holes .",
    "we combine these evolution timescales with the time required for inspiral to calculate a total required delay time , @xmath29 .",
    "we then use this to calculate a galactic merger rate by assuming a constant star - formation rate of 3.5m@xmath8yr@xmath30 for 10 gyrs , i.e. we predict the number of black - hole binary mergers expected per year if the milky way was made gradually , of stars with a single metallicity .",
    "this prescription for galactic rate has previously been used by @xcite and @xcite .    for later use",
    ", we also estimate the rate of binary black - hole mergers which have two black - holes in the mass ranges inferred for the progenitors of gw150914 .",
    "we do this by taking the number of mergers from the bin element used for figure [ figmasses ] ( see later ) that the masses of the gw150914 system lie in .",
    "this is all mergers with the masses of both black holes individually between 23.7 and 42.2m@xmath8 .",
    "we show our delay time distributions for sample metallicities in figure [ figtimesdist ] for ns - ns , bh - ns and bh - bh mergers .",
    "the merger rates are present assuming an instanteous burst of star - formation at @xmath31 with a total stellar mass of @xmath32 .",
    "we also indicate the delay time distribution for gw150914 type events .",
    "we see that for all distributions there are a short timescale peak and a longer plateau .",
    "we discuss other aspects of the distribution below .",
    ") as a function of metallicity . in all cases",
    "the merger time dominates the delay time but the stellar lifetime does give rise to the minimum total time as shown in figure [ figtimesdist ] .",
    "the thick black line line shows the mean timescales for the full black - hole binary merger population with 1@xmath33 uncertainty indicated by the thin solid line .",
    "the red lines indicate the equivalent for systems with stellar masses matching those of gw150914 .",
    "vertical lines indicate two widely used values for solar metallicity .",
    "the blue dotted lines are the merger times for ns - ns binaries and the dash - dotted the time for ns - bh mergers.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    figure [ figtimes ] presents the variation in the total lifetimes for mergers of binary black holes with metallicity .",
    "our results are consistent with the results of @xcite in that the typical delay times are a few gyr although there is a broad range of possible merger times as shown in figure [ figtimesdist ] .",
    "we identify cases where the merger occurs after a much shorter delay due to the kick during the second core - collapse event reducing the orbital period or inducing a reasonable eccentricity that shortens the merger time .",
    "there are also cases with delay times longer than 10 gyrs but we do not include them in our rate estimate below , although we note that some authors ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) include these .",
    "delay times are relatively independent of initial stellar metallicity , although there is a slight trend to fewer mergers at higher metallicities .",
    "this is due to more mass loss from the systems widening the orbit the progenitor binary systems as well as the reduction in the typical mass of the black holes .    at the lowest metallicities of @xmath34 we see",
    "there is a trend for it to be more common for black holes to have longer merger times .",
    "the reduced opacities at this metallicity cause stars to be more compact and so we find common - envelope evolution is less likely and more mass can be transferred in binary interactions .",
    "this leads to more systems experiencing qhe with relatively wide orbits .",
    "when these form binary black hole systems , most mass goes into the black hole so such systems have low eccentricities and take a longer time to merge .",
    "we see , for example , that if the progenitor of gw150914 had this metallicity it is most likely to have had a long merger time rather than being a prompt merger .",
    "we note that @xcite also find the systems are dominated by long merger times at low metallicity and see similar evolution even without including any qhe in their models .",
    "while the rate of mergers from these low metallicity progenitors is higher than that at near - solar metallicities , the number of stars that formed at this metallicity is uncertain .",
    "we note that even by @xmath35 there is strong evidence for much higher metallicities in the intergalactic medium ( e.g. * ? ? ? * and references therein ) and above this redshift the cosmic star formation density history is very low , so the fraction of the cosmic star formation history which takes place at such low metallicities is probably very small .",
    "figure [ figrates ] and table [ qheratio ] demonstrates that our estimated galactic merger rates ( as defined in section [ sec : results1 ] ) are more metallicity dependent than those reported by @xcite .",
    "the approximate range of rates are of the same order as those given by @xcite . at super - solar metallicities the black - hole merger rate plummets : stellar mass loss during the giant phase causes a decrease in the formation rate and typical mass of black - hole binaries and the systems are much wider at formation and fewer in number .",
    "the same trend can be seen in the neutron - star / black - hole binaries where the rate also decreases .",
    "only the double neutron - star merger rate remains relatively constant .",
    "we note that these rates are those derived for systems that merge within 10gyrs ; it is likely that some systems at high metallicities may still merge , but on timescales exceeding this cut - off .    below solar metallicity , mass loss becomes less efficient and our predicted binary black hole merger rate increases slightly before plateauing at metallicities of @xmath0 and below .",
    "we also consider the relative rates in logarithmically spaced mass bins .",
    "the overall merger rate is dominated by binary systems with a total black - hole mass in the range 13 - 24m@xmath8 . at lower metallicities ,",
    "a slight increase in total rate is driven by a larger number of more massive systems ( 24 - 42m@xmath8 ) , while the merger rate of less massive systems ( 6 - 14m@xmath8 ) declines .",
    "very few black hole systems with total mass of 100m@xmath8 are generated in our models , with small number statistics in each metallicity leading to variable rate estimates with a large associated uncertainty .",
    "these represented a small contribution to the total rate at all but the lowest metallicities .",
    "when qhe is included at @xmath21 there are changes to the rates .",
    "the main change is that at @xmath36 it causes the mean delay time to decrease by 0.1  dex , as seen in figure [ figtimes ] .",
    "otherwise the mean black hole delay time increases by 0.1  dex in our models over the range of metallicities while the other merger times remain mostly constant .",
    "we find this is due to our increasing black hole mass giving rise to smaller natal kicks , giving rise to more circular black hole binaries being formed .",
    "less eccentric binaries have longer merger times giving rise to the shifting distribution . at our lowest metallicities @xmath37",
    "there is a significant increase of merger times of 0.5 dex .",
    "this is due to more of the mergers being dominated by qhe system which remain wider and therefore require more time to merge .",
    "we note that an alternative approach is to discuss predictions in terms of event rate within the local universe , per cubic gpc per year .",
    "to obtain a meaningful estimate requires perfect knowledge of the luminosity function , star formation history , current star formation rate and metallicity distribution of galaxies in a given volume - all of which are subject to considerable uncertainties .",
    "however it is possible to make an order of magnitude estimate for comparison with previous predictions .",
    "to do this we assume a number of milky way equivalent galaxies within a cubic gpc of 0.01  mpc@xmath38 ( see , for example , * ? ? ?",
    "this can be combined with our rates of events per myr in a milky way - like galaxy to produce a conversion factor of 1 myr@xmath30 ( galactic ) @xmath3910 gpc@xmath38  yr@xmath30 ( volume averaged ) .",
    "our predicted merger rates are , very approximately for all black hole mergers , in the range of 10 to 100  gpc@xmath38  yr@xmath30 .",
    "this is comparable to the merger rate inferred by @xcite of between 2 and 400  gpc@xmath38  yr@xmath30 .",
    "we note that in figure [ figrates ] our mergers of black hole binaries with a total mass above 75m@xmath8 have a discontinuity between metallicities of @xmath40 and 0.004 . below this metallicity jump ,",
    "stars that previously would have formed black holes experience pair - instability sne and so leave no remnant decreasing the rate of mergers from the most massive binaries .",
    "the rate increases again at the lowest metallicity with the increasing contribution from systems that experience qhe as well as now having more stars that are massive enough to avoid a pair - instability sne and form very massive black holes .",
    "there is also similar non - monotonic variation with metallicity in some of the other merger rates .",
    "this is the result both of us using detailed models over a finite grid of masses and also that theoretical models suggest there is not a simple mapping between initial masses and remnant mass @xcite , which also changes with metallicity ( see figure 6 in * ? ? ?",
    "there is some observational evidence for this from the fact that magnetars ( highly magnetic neutron stars ) arise from stellar progenitors with initial masses above @xmath41 as well as lower mass progenitors of @xmath42 @xcite .",
    "these studies suggest that the final remnant masses are likely to be determined by mass - loss by winds and binary interactions but also the detailed nature of the final stages of nuclear burning .",
    "the point to point variation in behaviour gives some indication of the uncertainties from our adopted methods , and are of the order of 0.3 dex at most .",
    "our event rates for neutron - star mergers , for example , is sensitive as well to the minimum mass for core - collapse sne .",
    "this is 8m@xmath8 at @xmath43 but decreases to 6m@xmath8 at the lowest metallicities ; at the same time the number of black holes forming is also changing and so the rate appears to to jump .",
    "in table [ qheratio ] we show the typical orbital parameters for the binary black hole systems that merge in our simulations .",
    "we see that in general the systems require a high eccentricity to merge within 10gyrs .",
    "this validates our earlier assumption of interpolating between the limits of high and low eccentricity derived by @xcite as most systems are highly eccentric after the second sn .",
    "furthermore we note again that at the lowest metallicities there is a significant decrease in the mean eccentricity .",
    "this is due to the fact that at lower metallicities the qhe stars are significantly more compact at the end of the evolution and eject very little mass in the second supernova .",
    "therefore the orbit remains relatively circular and so the merger time remains high .",
    "we see a similar pattern for the typical system giving rise to events matching gw150914 in table [ typical ] , although due to the restriction of the masses we find that at higher metallicities the possible systems are very few . at lower metallicities",
    "there are two ranges of initial masses due to pair - instability sne preventing stars from forming black holes at some mass ranges .",
    "again we see that most of our systems are required to have high initial eccentric when formed , unless the systems are at the lowest metallicities when qhe is the dominant formation channel - although as we see in figure [ figtimesdist ] these have long merger times . since these would have formed earlier in the universe at these metallicities it is possible that this is a likely formation channel for gw150914 ,",
    "although as we discuss above few stars were formed at low metallicities .",
    "finally we provide a very approximate estimate of how detectable the different mergers will be in table [ chirp ] . for each metallicity",
    "we calculate the mean chirp masses for all our compact remnant mergers in our calculations where , @xmath44 .",
    "the distance at which a merger can be detected is related to this value by @xmath45 , the volume within which mergers can be detected is thus @xmath46 . rather than",
    "calculate an absolute rate we calculate the rates relative to the mean merger rate for all ns - ns mergers .",
    "we see that , except at the lowest metallicity , the ns - ns merger rates are similar . however with the higher chirp masses for systems involving a black hole our approximate detection rate increase significantly .",
    "this echoes the predictions of @xcite that a binary black - hole would be the first remnant mergers to be detected .",
    "yr@xmath30 for 10gyrs , as a function metallicity and the total mass of both black holes in the binary .",
    "the solid - black line is the total galactic rate of all the black - hole merger population while the dashed - black line is for systems matching gw150914 .",
    "the colour lines are the rates for logarithmically spaced mass bins of the mean black hole mass in the binary with ranges @xmath47dex . note the structure in metallicity behaviour .",
    "the dotted and dash - dotted lines are the rates for ns - ns and ns - bh binaries.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "as figure [ figmasses ] illustrates , the rate of mergers at @xmath48 peaks in systems where the primary black hole is just over twice that of the secondary ( a mass ratio of 2 ) , and is highest for primary black holes around 10 m@xmath8 . comparable rates ( to within an order of magnitude ) are found for some binaries with mass ratios ranging from 10 to 0.5 , although this is dependent on both metallicity and primary mass . at metallicities close to solar , black hole binaries with masses @xmath49m@xmath8 ( in either the secondary or primary )",
    "are rarely seen in our models . at lower metallicities ( @xmath50 ) ,",
    "the structure in rates becomes more complex , with the highest rates observed or systems in which the primary is still close to 10m@xmath8 in mass but now comparable to , or even _ less _ massive than , the secondary , although several regions of parameter space with a range of mass ratios and primary masses show comparable rates . at the lowest metallicities we show ( @xmath4 ) ,",
    "the rate distribution of mergers is predicted to show two peaks of comparable strength , one of which occurs at near - equal masses comparable to those of gw 150914 , while the other occurs at lower masses and more asymmetric systems .",
    "there are two competing pathways for the black hole mergers in our synthetic population .",
    "the first is for systems that do not require qhe .",
    "these are interacting massive binary systems driven together by common - envelope evolution or wider binary systems that only experience roche - lobe overflow and require a more eccentric black - hole binary to merge quickly .",
    "for these systems typically the primary black hole is the more massive one .",
    "systems with a more massive secondary black hole are less probable . for this pathway decreasing metallicity increases the typical black hole masses slightly .",
    "the second is an interaction leading to efficient mass transfer so that the secondary star can accrete a large amount of material and at low metallicities experience qhe . at @xmath36",
    "the peak from this pathway overlaps with that from the typical mass - transfer .",
    "however as the metallicity decreases the secondary star retains more of its mass as stellar winds weaken and so the peak of events switches to the secondary black hole being more massive .",
    "we show in table [ qheratio ] the fraction of mergers at each metallicity that arise from systems that have experienced qhe .",
    "we see this is a major channel for most bh - bh mergers but , in agreement with @xcite we find that gw150914 is possible and more likely from interacting binary evolution without qhe , except at the lowest metallicities we consider .",
    "one difference between the standard and qhe pathways is that the qhe pathway tends to have a longer delay time . in the standard binary pathway",
    "both stars can interact , so when the second black hole is formed the stars can already be in a tight orbit . for the qhe pathway",
    "the lack of a second interaction leads to wider orbits and therefore longer merger times .",
    "the extreme case of this can be seen in the @xmath51 delay time panel of figure [ figtimesdist ] with the peak around 10  gyr . a final factor to consider",
    "is how many of our black hole mergers are predicted to have a mass ratio close to unity . from summing the bins with mass ratio consistent with the unity line in figure [ figmasses ]",
    ", we find that at @xmath52 approximately 20 to 40 per cent of black hole mergers should have similar black hole masses . at metallicities below this value",
    "the number can drop to a less than 10 per cent because of the qhe stars dominating the rate .",
    "we note that this occurs in our observationally - benchmarked standard model set , in the absence of fine tuning to match the gw150914 event .",
    "the observational benchmarking of bpass has previously concentrated on modelling observed stars , stellar systems and core - collapse sne .",
    "this is the first time we have confronted predictions for compact remnants .",
    "gw150914 has provided a new test of bpass that other spectral synthesis codes such as starburst99 @xcite and the @xcite models are unable to pass due to their reliance on single - star models .",
    "while a low significance gamma ray burst transient coincident with the gw 150914 event was reported by @xcite , the association of this with the binary inspiral and merger is unclear . in a separate analysis",
    "@xcite found this signal was consistent with background fluctuations .",
    "follow up with other instrumentation ranging from radio to x - ray wavelengths @xcite failed to yield a detection .",
    "such an identification was always unlikely given the low luminosities predicted for bh - bh merger counterparts , the poor sky localisation of ligo in its 2015 configuration , and the early detection at a time when a number of the planned electromagnetic follow - up programmes ( e.g. blackgem , @xcite , or goto , http://goto-observatory.org/ ) were not yet on sky .",
    "bh - bh mergers are considered poor candidates for electromagnetic detection , but this is yet to be demonstrated observationally .",
    "as such , it is useful to consider the implications of our analysis for hypothetical follow - up of similar future events .",
    "ligo in its current configuration ( two detectors in the united states ) , can localise events to a region of order @xmath53500 - 1000deg@xmath54 , with this region typically distributed in an arc with multiple high probability regions rather than a single field @xcite .",
    "identification of counterparts in such large regions is exceptionally difficult due both to the small field of view of typical optical telescopes and the number of ` normal ' electromagnetic transients expected per square degree .",
    "suggested follow - up strategies include optimised tiling of the highest probability regions ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) and targeting the environs of the brightest galaxies in the region ( which contribute @xmath5350 per cent of the stellar light , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "while the former strategy is unaffected by our results , the effect on the latter could be significant .",
    "galaxy catalogues compiled to date have been based on a distance range and luminosity cut - off optimised for neutron star - neutron star mergers , and tuned to select the typical host galaxies of short grbs ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "they prioritise galaxies on b - band luminosity , focusing on the large scale structures containing most luminous mass .",
    "given the strong metallicity dependence of our results , using such catalogues may not be a optimal strategy for binary black hole mergers .    as discussed in section [ sec : results1 ] , we see two peaks in the age distribution of gw150914-like progenitors at the lowest metallicities we consider arising from different pathways .",
    "the first of these allows systems to merge at ages of a few million years , while the second dominates at ages of a few billion years upwards . at any metallicity in our models above @xmath51 , only the first of these pathways is permitted .",
    "while it is appealing to abandon the short - lived possibility in favour of the longer lived progenitor pathway , there are potential problems .",
    "the rate expected from long - lived progenitors in our models peaks at 10gyr and is only measurable at metallicities below a two hundredth of solar . in this scenario",
    "the stars that ended their lives in gw150914 likely formed at @xmath55 , and at metallicities significantly lower than those estimated in the star forming galaxy population at that redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "they would have to arise in pockets of pristine or near - pristine gas isolated from pollution by nearby supernovae - very rare survivors of the metal - poor cosmic dawn .",
    "while it is possible to push the formation redshift still earlier ( i.e. invoking merger timescales @xmath56gyr ) , we note that the star formation density at such early times falls off rapidly was many orders of magnitude lower at an epoch when the required metallicities were common .    on the other hand",
    ", the short - lived progenitor pathway also requires that the stars that ended their lives in gw150914 formed in a gas cloud that is significantly below the volume averaged typical metallicity at its redshift .",
    "one advantage is that such short - merger systems form at a wide range of more moderate metallicities . at any metallicity above @xmath3 , and given the event redshift , @xmath57 , the stars that ended their lives in gw150914 likely formed at @xmath58 , while more typical bh - bh merger progenitors formed at @xmath59 , an epoch at which the universe was already heavily metal enriched .",
    "however galaxies with metallicities below half - solar ( required by our models ) are are not unknown in the local universe ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , although their number density is low and remains poorly constrained .",
    "galaxies in the local universe show a strong relation between metallicity and both stellar mass and luminosity , with bright ( @xmath60 ) , massive ( m@xmath61m@xmath62 ) galaxies typically having solar or super - solar metallicities @xcite . while there are likely to be pockets of lower metallicity star formation in these systems , the bulk properties mitigate against the formation of high mass black hole - black hole binaries . instead , short - timescale binary black hole merger events are more likely to be associated with low mass , less luminous regions of the cosmic web and potentially with post - starburst galaxies ( i.e. those which formed significant numbers of stars @xmath533 - 5gyr ago ) .",
    "hence , even if galaxy catalogues were extended to the larger distances expected for bh - bh mergers relative to ns - ns mergers , their analysis of the densest regions of stellar material may still skew observations away from the best candidates .",
    "while we have not investigated ns - bh events in detail , we expect them to exhibit a similar bias towards low metallicities - whether formed through short or long timescale pathways .",
    "we advocate the addition of galaxy metallicity information to follow - up prioritisation algorithms using galaxy catalogues .",
    "these should be employed with care , particularly if the ligo rapid analysis is able to constrain an event as a likely binary black hole merger before electromagnetic follow - up .",
    "we can conclude that the most likely evolutionary pathway for gw150914 is standard binary evolution , in agreement with the work of @xcite who independently reached the same conclusion .",
    "having said that , there are differences between these two population synthesis codes regarding handling of core - collapse and the natal kicks of neutron stars and black holes .",
    "this leads to our predictions giving wider black - hole binaries that are highly eccentric and merge within 10  gyrs , while @xcite have shorter period systems that undergo direct black hole formation .",
    "as more compact remnant mergers are detected there will be ever tighter constraints on binary population synthesis .",
    "however we stress this should only be one test and other observational data such as stellar populations and supernovae should be used to constrain population synthesis codes .",
    "the results presented in this paper are based on v2.0 of the bpass models , which have already been tested against observational constraints in a range of different areas from the distant universe to local star forming galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein )",
    ". inevitably , their results are somewhat dependent on the initial parameter distributions employed by the models ( for example in binary separation distribution and mass loss rates ) , and we endeavour to use observationally motivated constraints for all free parameters .",
    "importantly , however , we have not tuned our models to achieve the results in this paper .",
    "we have simply taken the standard bpass model set and analysed its predictions for black - hole mergers .",
    "we have calculated predictions for binary black hole merger timescales and rates , and considered the 1st ligo event detection in light of these predictions .",
    "we find that the event must have come from a metallicity of @xmath0 , roughly half solar , or below and the rate for such events is nearly constant for metallicities between 1/5th and 1/10th solar via normally binary evolution at 0.1 to 0.4 per cent of all binary bh mergers .",
    "this metallicity cutoff was estimated independently by @xcite using the single star models of @xcite .",
    "however both these cutoffs are higher than the metallicity cut - off given by the binary population synthesis of @xcite of 1/10th solar or @xmath40 .",
    "the exact reason for this difference is not clear and it is likely to be a combination of factors :    1 .",
    "we may estimate more massive black holes in our simulations , either due to our method of estimating the remnant mass formed or our assumed stellar - wind mass - loss scheme or other model detail .",
    "however as shown in figure [ figbhmass ] our estimated black hole masses are not so high , and are consistent with observations of known galactic systems .",
    "if we were to change the physics to decrease the black hole masses then the observed black - hole masses in nearby stellar binaries would become extreme rather than typical systems .",
    "2 .   our black - hole kick model may be weak compared to others .",
    "we pick a kick at random from a maxwell - boltzmann distribution with @xmath63 @xcite , but using it as a momentum distribution for the black - holes so that the kick velocity is reduced by @xmath64 .",
    "this means more massive black holes are likely to have weaker kicks and remain bound ( see the blue line in figure [ figbhmass ] ) .",
    "this means more low - mass black holes will be runaway compact remnants and are more likely to be detected by gravitational microlensing ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the detail of our treatment of common - envelope evolution could also produce more black - hole binaries . while many groups include common - envelope evolution it is the most uncertain phase of an interacting binary system @xcite .",
    "the differences between the different model populations are essentially linked to the formation of black holes , both in how massive they can be upon formation and what kick they obtain in their birth .",
    "future gravitational wave events will provide unique insights into the final outcome of core - collapse supernovae and the formation of black holes .    comparing our maximum black hole masses to those presented in @xcite we find",
    "the difference between predicted black - hole masses is roughly a factor between 1.25 to 2 at metallicities around solar and below .",
    "the assumed method of calculating remnant masses from the final stellar model likely contributes to this , as does our use of detailed evolution models rather than the rapid models . while in general rapid models",
    "are sufficiently accurate to estimate the evolution of a star , in the cases of significant mass loss the results can differ to those from detailed models .",
    "for example in cases where the hydrogen envelope of a massive star is close to being removed a detailed model will end its evolution as a yellow supergiant , while a rapid model typically predicts the star becomes a wolf - rayet star . in such cases the eventual mass of the star and compact remnant will be different .",
    "in addition , as discussed above , binary interactions can lead to a star forming a more massive black hole than it would in single star evolution .",
    "these are only second - order effects and can be accounted for in rapid models to some degree but can only be revealed by a detailed evolution model due to the highly non - linear nature of stellar evolution .",
    "we note that also used a grid of detailed evolution models to investigate the evolution of binary stars in tight orbits that experience qhe driven by tides rather than mass transfer .",
    "they also find a metallicity cutoff similar to that of @xcite .",
    "however they did not investigate the standard binary evolution channel that is presented here and that metallicity limit is for the massive overcontact binary pathway when the two stars are tidally lock and both experience qhe .",
    "we do not include this pathway in our study .",
    "for a very low metallicity ( @xmath37 ) , 1/200th solar , the merger rates predicted by bpass are at their highest , a factor of 100 greater than at higher metallicities . for a stellar population undergoing constant star formation , the rate of binary black hole merger events in our models peaks at close to the mass of the black holes inferred for gw150914 . however at more typical stellar metallicities , this event would constitute a less common high - mass outlier in the predicted distribution .",
    "the predictions of bpass are consistent with this event arising from a normal , if low metallicity , stellar population . while other scenarios , such as that suggested by , could also lead to the formation of such a binary , exotic scenarios are not necessarily required .",
    "we note the importance of considering metallicity biases in the host stellar population when attempting to localise electromagnetic counterparts for binary merger events .    finally , while this paper has been under review the ligo consortium have announced the detection of a further binary black - hole merger , and undertaken further analysis of a third , low significance event @xcite .",
    "neither event had a detected optical counterpart .",
    "we have included these events ( gw151226 and lvt151012 ) on figure [ figmasses ] .",
    "their total black - hole binary masses of 37 and 22m@xmath8 are lower than that of gw150914 and , as we can see in figure [ figrates ] , rates of similar events are expected to be higher and more typical of what is expected from binary black - hole mergers in the universe .",
    "we note with interest that one or both of the two black holes in gw151226 may have had intrinsic spin .",
    "as the population of gravitational wave events grows , this signal will be key to identifying cases where qhe is important in producing the progenitor system .",
    "together the three events have also allowed the ligo consortium to report a more accurate estimate for the expected merger rate of 9 to 240  gpc@xmath38  yr@xmath30 @xcite , comparable to the estimate presented in this work of 10 to 100  gpc@xmath38  yr@xmath30 .",
    "jje acknowledges support from the university of auckland .",
    "ers acknowledges support from uk stfc consolidated grant st / l000733/1 .",
    "the authors thank richard easther for useful discussion .",
    "we acknowledge and thank the ligo scientific collaboration for their decades of endeavours that led to the detection of gw150914 . the authors wish to acknowledge the contribution of the nesi high - performance computing facilities and the staff at the centre for eresearch at the university of auckland .",
    "new zealand s national facilities are provided by the new zealand escience infrastructure ( nesi ) and funded jointly by nesi s collaborator institutions and through the ministry of business , innovation and employment infrastructure programme ( http://www.nesi.org.nz )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using the binary population and spectral synthesis code bpass , we have calculated the rates , timescales and mass distributions for binary black hole mergers as a function of metallicity . </S>",
    "<S> we consider these in the context of the recently reported 1st ligo event detection . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the event has a very low probability of arising from a stellar population with initial metallicity mass fraction above @xmath0 ( @xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> binary black hole merger events with the reported masses are most likely in populations below 0.008 ( @xmath2 ) . </S>",
    "<S> events of this kind can occur at all stellar population ages from  3 myr up to the age of the universe , but constitute only 0.1 to 0.4 per cent of binary bh mergers between metallicities of @xmath3 to 0.008 . </S>",
    "<S> however at metallicity @xmath4 , 26 per cent of binary bh mergers would be expected to have the reported masses . at this metallicity the progenitor merger times can be close to @xmath5gyr and rotationally - mixed stars evolving through quasi - homogeneous evolution , due to mass transfer in a binary , dominate the rate . </S>",
    "<S> the masses inferred for the black holes in the binary progenitor of gw150914 are amongst the most massive expected at anything but the lowest metallicities in our models . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the implications of our analysis for the electromagnetic follow - up of future ligo event detections .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gravitational waves  stars : black holes  binaries : general </S>"
  ]
}