{
  "article_text": [
    "radio pulsars are renowned for unique high - precision clocks in the universe driven by their stable rotation .",
    "the pulsar timing method provides a model of the pulsar s astrometric , orbital and rotational parameters to compare with the observed pulse times of arrival ( toas ) @xcite .",
    "timing residuals of a pulsar are defined as the differences between the predicted toas and the actual toas",
    ". however , radio pulsars exhibit two main timing irregularities , namely ` glitches ' that are sudden increases in spin rate followed by a period of relaxation , and ` timing noise ' that shows long - term and stochastic deviations from a regular spin - down model and mainly consists of low - frequency structures .",
    "timing noise can be characterized as a random walk in the rotational phase , angular velocity or torque and describes the un - modelled red noise in the observed toas @xcite , implying a process autocorrelated on a time - scale of hours to years @xcite .",
    "previously the analyses of timing noise have been limited by the relatively short data spans .",
    "only a few papers have analysed a small number of pulsars for long data spans @xcite .",
    "most of the analyses are mainly about obtaining high - quality power spectral estimates of the timing residuals or fitting the timing residuals of a single pulsar with a simple model . recently",
    "hobbs et al.(2010 ) ( hereafter h10 ) carried out so far the most comprehensive survey of timing irregularities in 366 pulsars over time - scales longer than a decade , which have characteristic ages larger than @xmath2 years .",
    "based on the simple spin - down model , the second frequency derivative can be modelled by the cubic terms of a taylor series as follows , @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the phase at time @xmath5 .",
    "values of @xmath0 obtained from timing fits are typically orders of magnitude larger than the prediction of the vacuum dipole model and usually have different signs . in the meantime ,",
    "the braking indices determined by these derivatives have anomalous values range from @xmath6 to @xmath7 .",
    "therefore , hobbs et al . argued that these cubic terms are not dominated by the intrinsic dipole braking of pulsars and only fit the pulse frequency and its first derivative and consider the remaining features as timing noise .",
    "subsequently , they tried to categorize the pulsars based on the structures existing in their timing residuals .",
    "nevertheless , they argued that two problems exist in their categorization , namely , the toa precision achievable and the data spans available .",
    "however , the physical processes behind timing noise have not been well explained . the phenomenon is attributed to various mechanisms .",
    "it has been suggested that the timing noise is dominated by the recovery from unseen glitches @xcite . as the pulsar ages , glitch activity decreases and",
    "the timing noise is dominated by changes in the magnetosphere .",
    "lyne et al.(2010 ) demonstrated that the observed timing noise correlates with the observed pulse shape , which indicates that some timing noise may be caused by magnetospheric processes .",
    "some authors argued that timing noise may be driven by variability in the coupling between the crust and superfluid interior @xcite and fluctuations in the external spin - down torque @xcite .",
    "a more complete understanding of timing noise will provide us an insight into the interior structure of neutron stars .",
    "an additional possibility is that the magnetic fields of pulsars decay with age .",
    "baym et al .",
    "( 1969 ) gave the first estimate of the characteristic decay time of their magnetic fields .",
    "sang @xmath8 chanmugam ( 1987 ) argued that the field does not decay exponentially during the lifetime of the neutron stars .",
    "however , a complete theoretical model that could explain all observations does not exist yet , as the evolution of the magnetic field depend on its configuration that is still unknown and even the origin of the field is not clear until now . in general , the magnetic field is often assumed to occupy a substantial fraction of a neutron star s volume and pass through its core or is confined to relatively not very deep layers .",
    "recently , three physical processes were proposed to explain the evolution of the magnetic field inside a neutron star : ( 1 ) hall drift , which is the advection of the magnetic field because of the motion of the free electrons ; ( 2 ) ohmic dissipation , which converts magnetic energy to heat because of the finite conductivity of the crust ; ( 3 ) ambipolar diffusion , which is the interaction of the electric currents with the neutrons deeper inside a neutron star @xcite .",
    "on the other hand , population synthesis studies suggested that old pulsars show no significant magnetic decay over their lifetimes @xcite , although the opposite conclusion has also been claimed @xcite .",
    "these contradictions may be resolved by the assumption that the neutron star magnetic field is maintained by two current systems .",
    "long living currents in the superconducting core support the large - scale dipolar field and are responsible for the spin down of old pulsars , but currents in the crust support the short - lived part of the field @xcite .",
    "the estimates of the magnetic field strength of neutron stars usually come from radio pulsars with measured spin - down rates .",
    "as the real ages of these pulsars are usually unknown , one can determine their spin - down age , @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the spin period of the pulsar , as the indicators of the true ages of pulsars .",
    "however , zhang @xmath8 xie ( 2011 ) showed that spin - down ages are normally significantly larger than the ages of the supernova remnants physically associated with them , which in principle should be the unbiased age indicators of the pulsars @xcite .",
    "it may be evidence of the magnetic field decay over their lifetimes , as the decay can alter the spin - down rate of a pulsar significantly .",
    "to explain the observed periodic or quasi - periodic evolution of the spin of pulsars , it is natural to introduce some oscillation parameters .",
    "zhang @xmath8 xie ( 2012a ) proposed a magnetic field evolution model , which consists a long - term decay modulated by short - term oscillations and can explain the observed statistical properties of @xmath0 well .    in this paper",
    ", we will mainly explain the reason for amplitude and sign of second frequency derivative and the structure of timing residuals of a given pulsar varying with the time span of data segments . by contrasting with hobbs s opinion",
    ", we argue that timing residuals , which have subtracted pulsar s spin frequency and its first derivative and are dominated by @xmath0 ( i.e. fig.3 in h10 ) , are still due to the evolution of magnetic field of pulsars .",
    "the structure of the paper is as follows . in the next section",
    ", we introduce the sample selection of the pulsars , and classify the timing residuals based on the the sign of @xmath0 and the detailed structure of timing residuals . in section 3 ,",
    "we review magnetic field evolution model we developed previously and use markov chain monte carlo ( mcmc ) method to fit the timing residuals with a single oscillation component and two oscillation components of the model .",
    "then we reclassify the timing residuals based on the number of oscillation components . in section 4",
    ", we discuss the evolution of pulsars through their distribution of different kinds of timing residuals in the @xmath1 diagram and physical implication of the oscillation term .",
    "the summary of our results is given in section 5 .",
    "as we mentioned above , hobbs et al.(2010 ) attempted to categorize pulsars based on the structures existing in their timing residuals : ( 1 ) 37% of the timing residuals are dominated by the measurement errors and show no features ; ( 2 ) 20% have residuals that can be modelled by a significant positive @xmath0 value ; ( 3 ) 16% have cubic terms that correspond to a negative @xmath0 value ; and ( 4 ) 27% show more complicated structures . in the meantime",
    ", they showed that their simple categorization has two problems : ( 1 ) the toas of some pulsars are measured more precisely than the toas of others ( see fig.4 in h10 ) ; ( 2 ) the structure of timing residuals of any pulsar is likely to change as the data span varies ( see fig.5 in h10 ) .    to better classify the timing residuals",
    ", we try to separate the pulsars that their timing residuals have detailed structures and those that have no structures in the residuals from the h10 sample .",
    "figure 1 shows the distributions of @xmath11 and @xmath12 of all 366 pulsars taken from h10 , where @xmath12 represents the un - weighted rms of the residuals after fitting for @xmath13 and @xmath14 , and @xmath11 represents the rms after whitening the data set by fitting and removing harmonically related sinusoids @xcite . from these distributions",
    "alone we can not identify those pulsars with obvious structures in their timing residuals . in figure 2 we plot the distribution of @xmath15 of all 366 pulsars we take from h10 .",
    "we find that there are two distinctly different peaks in figure 2 ; the pulsars in one peak that the values of @xmath15 are approximately 0 have distinct structures of timing residuals as shown in figures 3 and 4 , but in the other peak no distinct structure exists , which means that the residuals after subtraction of the pulsar s @xmath13 and @xmath14 are approximately white noise .",
    "therefore , the pulsars in our sample are selected with @xmath16 , which have periodic or quasi - periodic structures in their timing residuals ; the number of pulsars with @xmath17 or @xmath16 are 166 and 200 , respectively . in figure 5",
    "we plot the distributions of @xmath12 and @xmath11 of the two samples ; we can not distinguish the two samples based on @xmath12 or @xmath11 individually , since their main peaks overlap in the distributions .     and @xmath11 of all 366 pulsars , where @xmath12 represents the unweighted rms of the residuals after fitting for @xmath13 and @xmath14 , and @xmath11 represents the rms after whitening the data set by fitting and removing harmonically related sinusoids .",
    "]     of all pulsars .",
    "the number of @xmath16 or @xmath18 are 200 and 166 , respectively . ]",
    "mode timing residuals .",
    "each sub - panel represents the different subclass , for which the pulsar s spin - frequency and its first derivative have been fitted and removed . ]",
    "mode timing residuals .",
    "each sub - panel represents the different subclass , for which the pulsar s spin - frequency and its first derivative have been fitted and removed . ]     and @xmath11 of two samples , respectively . ]",
    "we thus select the sample that have detailed structures to study the evolution of @xmath0 with their timing residuals . in the first step",
    ", we classify the timing residuals based on the sign of @xmath0 .",
    "in addition , based on the structural tendency of timing residuals , we define the residuals of @xmath19 as @xmath20 mode ( see fig .  [ w - mode ] ) .",
    "conversely , we define the residuals of @xmath21 as @xmath22 mode ( see fig .  [ m - mode ] ) . according to equation  ( [ phi0 ] ) , to the timing residuals after substraction of the pulsar s spin - frequency and its first derivative ,",
    "the overall structural tendency is dominated by the sign of @xmath0 .",
    "that is to say , the overall shapes of these two modes ( see fig.3a and fig.4a respectively ) are the basic shape of a cubic polynomial after removal of @xmath13 and @xmath14",
    ". therefore , these features are inevitable results of mathematics .",
    "however , there is still no self - consistent theory to explain the reason for the sign of @xmath0 . besides",
    ", there exist some residuals in both modes that show more complicated structures beyond the simple mathematics .",
    "therefore , based on the numbers of local extrema , the @xmath20 mode residuals are further divided into @xmath23 , @xmath24 , @xmath25 and @xmath26 subclasses corresponding to the residual patterns with two , three , four and more local extreme points ( see fig.3a , 3b , 3c and 3d which have the typical characteristic structures in the timing residuals for the different subclasses among the 200 pulsars in the sample of @xmath16 ) , respectively .",
    "similarly , the @xmath22 mode residuals are further divided into @xmath27 , @xmath28 and @xmath29 subclasses corresponding to the residual patterns with two , three and four local extreme points ( see fig.4a , 4b and 4c ) .    in table 1",
    "we present the numbers of the different subclasses in our sample . in figure 6",
    "we plot the @xmath1 diagram for our sample and all the observed pulsars taken from the atnf pulsar catalogue @xcite . from the distribution of our sample we see that it covers radio pulsars , millisecond pulsars and high energy pulsars . in the following section",
    ", we will attempt to use phenomenological model to reproduce these timing residuals , find the physical process that leads to the phenomena , i.e. , timing residuals generally includes positive and negative values of @xmath0 and some of them have sophisticated structures .",
    "then we will further explain the reason for the structure of timing residuals of a given pulsar varying with the time span of the data analyzed .",
    ".number of the corresponding types in our sample [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "as we pointed out in the previous section , to each oscillation component , the sign of @xmath30 is dominated by the variation of phase , which is an oscillation parameter in our magnetic field oscillation model ; namely , the sign of @xmath30 is mainly determined by the observation time . in the meantime",
    ", our magnetic oscillation model have reproduced all the typical timing residuals well .",
    "subsequently , we will further attempt to explain the sign of @xmath30 varying with the time span of data analyzed so as to influence the structure of timing residuals",
    ". the different types of timing residuals we defined may be caused by the different stages of magnetic field oscillation .",
    "here we only discuss two cases of long - term monotonic evolution of magnetic field for simplicity .",
    "we first explore if the exponential decay can influence the patterns of timing residuals , although zhang & xie(2012a ) have ruled out the exponential decay as the long - term monotonic evolution of the magnetic fields for the sample of h10 .",
    "we first assume an exponential field decay @xmath31 , where the timescale of decay @xmath32 and @xmath33 is the strength of the surface dipole magnetic field at time @xmath34 , the initial parameters @xmath35 , @xmath36 , and the characteristic age is @xmath37 ; the observation time span we simulate is @xmath38 .",
    "we plot the timing residuals by extracting the first @xmath39 yr of the simulated observational data segment that is obtained by numerical computation just like in the previous section .",
    "then we extract the data segment from the @xmath40 year to the @xmath41 year of the simulated observation to plot the timing residuals ; the time step is one year and other data segments are taken in a similar fashion , until we extract the data segment from the @xmath41 year to the @xmath42 year .",
    "the upper panel of figure 13 shows the timing residuals of all the data segments extracted . to the short term observation of the pulsar",
    ", we can see that the structures and the magnitude of all the timing residuals are exactly the same during the same observation time interval .",
    "the sign and magnitude of @xmath30 do not change , because the observation time span and the structure of timing residuals are all the same .",
    "we then assume a power - law field decay @xmath43 , where the decay index @xmath44 , and @xmath33 is the strength of surface dipole magnetic field at time @xmath34 .",
    "the initial parameters and observation time span are kept the same as the conditions of the exponential decay .",
    "the timing residuals are obtained also by the same operation steps as in the previous subsection .",
    "the lower panel of figure 13 shows the timing residuals of all the data segments extracted .",
    "the result is nearly the same as for the exponential decay , namely , the structure of timing residuals and the sign of @xmath30 are all independent from the different observation stages in the short term observation .",
    "therefore , the long - term monotonic evolution of magnetic field can not influence the patterns of timing residuals during short - term observations .",
    "we use our magnetic field oscillation model in equation  ( [ b_decay ] ) and adopt the same initial parameters and observation time as before , and assume a single oscillation component , corresponding to the oscillation parameters @xmath45 , @xmath46 yr and @xmath47 , respectively .",
    "the timing residuals are obtained also by the same steps above .",
    "figure 14 shows the timing residuals of all the data segments extracted .",
    "these timing residuals include @xmath23 , @xmath24 , @xmath27 and @xmath28 types defined in section 2 .",
    "the correlation between the sign of @xmath30 and different types of timing residuals is the same as that in observations . from the simulation we also find that , the pulsar keeps @xmath23 and @xmath27 types for most of the time during the periodic oscillation .",
    "this result agrees with the fact that @xmath23 and @xmath27 types occupy the majority of all the timing residuals in our sample .",
    "this indicates that these four types of timing residuals should be the different oscillation stages of the single oscillation component of magnetic field .    as a consequence ,",
    "the long - term monotonic decay of magnetic field has no impact to the structure of the timing residuals , but short - term oscillations can explain the observations well .",
    "therefore , the different structures of timing residuals of observations and the corresponding sign of @xmath30 are determined by the observation time , namely , the variation of the oscillation phase @xmath48 of magnetic field .",
    "obviously , our previous classification of timing residuals only according to the tendency of structure does not have physical significance .",
    "hereafter , we reclassify the previously defined timing residuals of @xmath23 , @xmath24 , @xmath27 and @xmath28 types , which are all reproduced by a single oscillation component of magnetic field , as single - component residuals ( @xmath49 ) mode ; the other types which include double or multiple oscillation components are defined as multi - component residuals ( @xmath50 ) mode .",
    "since the timing residuals that include double or multiple oscillation components are complex , we do not simulate these situations in this paper .",
    "figure 15 shows the distribution of the pulsars of the reclassified timing residuals in the @xmath1 diagram . for the @xmath49 mode pulsars ,",
    "their distribution covers almost all the evolution stages of pulsars , including normal radio pulsars , millisecond pulsars and high energy pulsars .",
    "however , the distribution of @xmath50 mode pulsars are mainly concentrated in the region of normal radio pulsars .     diagram . @xmath49",
    "mode pulsars are marked with triangles , and the circles represent @xmath50 mode pulsars .",
    "the dashed lines and dotted lines represent constant magnetic field and constant characteristic age , respectively .",
    "the transition region is confined by the the pink dotted lines and pink dashed lines . ]    to examine if these two samples are derived from the same distribution , we make the two - dimensional kolmogorov - smirnov ( k - s ) test ; the returned p - value is 0.13 , which means these two samples unlikely originate from the same distribution .",
    "therefore , we speculate that the physical processes that show a single oscillation form exist over the whole evolution of pulsars all along . however , as the neutron stars evolve to normal pulsars , there may exist a transition region ( @xmath51 ) , where double or multiple oscillation components could appear in some pulsars .",
    "afterwards the single oscillation mode dominates again , accompanied with the evolution of pulsars .",
    "@xmath51 is shown in figure 15 with the pink dashed lines and dotted lines , where the magnetic field is from @xmath52 to @xmath53 and the characteristic age is from @xmath54 yr to @xmath55 yr .",
    "the @xmath51 phenomenon may be indirect evidence of long term magnetic field evolution of pulsars .    in both isolated and accreting neutron stars , the hall effect and ohmic decay are both very important to the long term magnetic field evolution @xcite . since the hall drift conserves magnetic energy",
    ", it can not be a direct cause of magnetic field decay .",
    "however , jones ( 1988 ) first demonstrated that hall drift could transport magnetic field from the inner crust to the outer crust , where ohmic dissipation is much more effective than in the inner crust .",
    "hall drift can also pump energy from an internal strong toroidal field to the poloidal component , resulting in increase of magnetic field @xcite .",
    "it indicates that hall drift may produce damped oscillation with long period between toroidal and poloidal field components @xcite .",
    "cumming et al .",
    "( 2004 ) proposed that the hall effect dominates over ohmic decay after the time @xmath56 yr , when the magnetization parameter , @xmath57 , where @xmath58 and @xmath59 represent the timescales of ohmic decay and hall effect , respectively .",
    "the hall timescale at lower densities of the crust is @xcite @xmath60",
    "where @xmath61 , @xmath62 is the number fraction of electrons , and @xmath63 is the local gravity , assumed constant .",
    "gourgouliatos @xmath8 cumming ( 2014 ) investigated the evolution due to hall drift using different initial conditions , and found that eventually the field evolves towards a similar configuration defined as ` attractor ' , which consists of a dominant dipolar poloidal field coupled to a octopole through a weak toroidal quadrupole .",
    "recently marchant et al . (",
    "2014 ) did a similar numerical simulation about the effect of hall drift to magnetic field evolution in neutron stars .",
    "the initial condition @xmath64 represents the ratio of poloidal to total energy , namely the poloidal component contains a large amount of energy , and @xmath65 means that hall drift dominates the evolution . from the result of the numerical simulation , we find that the current associated to the toroidal field drags the poloidal field lines closer to one of the poles , since the bending of the poloidal field lines changes the orientation of the toroidal field ; therefore , the poloidal field lines are dragged to the opposite pole .",
    "this stable oscillation is repeated until the evolution is dominated by ohmic dissipation ( see fig.1 in marchant et al 2014 ) . from fig . 1 in marchant et al .",
    "( 2014 ) we estimate the beginning of the oscillation is nearly @xmath66 ; after approximately 100 @xmath66 , the oscillation vanishes when it reaches the attractor state . according to equation  ( [ hallout ] ) , we estimate that the evolution time is from @xmath67 yr to @xmath68 yr , consistent with the @xmath51 defined above .",
    "it is reasonable to speculate that this stage of oscillations between the poloidal and toroidal components is the main stage to produce the @xmath50 mode timing residuals .",
    "we thus further argue that the evolution of the modes of timing residuals may have a relation with the long term evolution of magnetic field configurations .",
    "in this paper , we separate the pulsars that have more detailed structure in the timing residuals than others from the h10 sample as our study sample ( @xmath16 ) . according to the sign of @xmath30",
    ", we have classified the timing residuals as @xmath20 mode and @xmath22 mode , which are further subdivided into several kinds of subclasses based on the structure of timing residuals ( fig.3 and fig.4 ) .",
    "then we used our phenomenological model to fit the timing residuals of the typical pulsars by the mcmc method respectively ( fig.9 and fig.10 ) and obtained the best fitting oscillation parameters to all the types of timing residuals .",
    "after that , we simulated the short term observation of an individual pulsar with different magnetic field evolution models . furthermore , we reclassified the timing residuals as @xmath49 mode and @xmath50 mode based on the number of oscillation components of magnetic field .",
    "we also analyzed the physical implications from the distribution of timing residuals in the @xmath1 diagram and the physical mechanisms causing the observational behaviors of timing residuals .",
    "our main results and conclusions are summarized as follows .",
    "our magnetic field oscillation model can reproduce the general behaviors of timing residuals well .",
    "the variation of the observed @xmath30 and the detailed structure of timing residuals reflect the oscillation of the magnetic field of pulsars .",
    "we rule out long - term monotonic evolution of magnetic field as the underlying mechanism for the observational timing residual patterns .",
    "the different structures of timing residuals of observation and the corresponding sign of @xmath30 are determined by the observation time , namely , the variation of oscillation phase @xmath48 of magnetic field .",
    "a single magnetic field oscillation mode exists generally over the whole evolution of pulsars , while @xmath50 mode only exists in the region of normal radio pulsars .",
    "\\6 . the @xmath49 mode and @xmath50 mode may transit from each other with the evolution stage of magnetic field configurations .",
    "in this work we only fit the timing residual patterns of seven typical pulsars in the sample of 200 pulsars with obvious timing residual patterns , in order to understand the underlying mechanism of the observational residual patterns and their variations with observation time . in our next work",
    ", we will fit the data for all other pulsars to understand the statistical properties of the parameters in our model .",
    "if we can understand better about the behavior of timing residuals , we may be able to improve the sensitivity of using pulsars to detect gravitational waves and explore the physical processes in the interiors of neutron stars .",
    "we suggest that our simulation results could be confirmed by using the existing data and predict that the structure of timing residuals should vary along with different segments of data . in doing so",
    ", we could further understand the behavior of magnetic field oscillation of pulsars .",
    "snz acknowledges partial funding support by 973 program of china under grant 2014cb845802 , by the national natural science foundation of china ( nsfc ) under grant nos .",
    "11133002 and 11373036 , by the qianren start - up grant 292012312d1117210 , and by the strategic priority research program `` the emergence of cosmological structures '' of the chinese academy of sciences ( cas ) under grant no .",
    "jnf acknowledges partial funding support by the joint fund of astronomy of nsfc and cas through grant u1231202 , and 973 program under grants 2014cb845700 and 2013cb834900 .",
    "alpar , m. a. , nandkumar , r. , & pines , d. , 1986 , apj , 311 , 197    baykal , a. , ali alpar , m. , boynton , p. , deeter , j. , 1999 , mnras , 306 , 207    baym , g. , pethick , c. j. , & pines , d. , 1969 , nature , 224 , 674    cheng , k. s. , 1987a , apj , 321 , 799    cheng , k. s. , 1987a , apj , 321 , 805    cordes , j. m. , & helfand , d. j. , 1980 , apj , 239 , 640    cordes , j. m. , & downs , g. s. , 1985 , apjs , 59 , 343    cumming , a. , arras , p. , & zweibel , e. , 2004 , apj , 609 , 999    edwards , r. t. , hobbs , g. b. , & manchester , r. n. , 2006 , mnras , 372 , 1549    faucher - giguere , c. -a . , kaspi , v. m. , 2006 , apj , 643 , 332    foreman - mackey d. , hogg d.  w. , lang d. , goodman j. , 2013 , pasp , 125 , 306    geppert , u. , page , d. , & zannias , t. , 1999 , a&a , 345 , 847    goldreich , p. , & reisenegger , a. , 1992 , apj , 395 , 250    gonthier , p. , van guilder , r. , & harding , a. , 2004 , apj , 604 , 775    gourgouliatos , k. n. , & cumming , a. , 2014 , mnras , 438 , 1618    hobbs , g. , lyne , a. g. , kramer , m. , marin c. e. , & jordan , c. , 2004 , mnras , 353 , 1311    hobbs , g. , lyne , a. g. , & kramer , m. , 2010 , mnras , 402 , 1027    johnston , s. , & galloway , d. , 1999 , mnras , 306 , l50    jones , p. b. , 1988 , mnras , 233 , 875    jones , p. b. , 1990 , mnras , 246 , 364    lorimer , d. r. , & kramer , m. , 2005 , handbook of pulsar astronomy .",
    "cambridge univ . press , cambridge    lyne , a. g. , ritchings , r. t. , & smith , f. g. , 1975 , mnras , 171 , 579    lyne , a. g. , & smith , f. g. , 2004 , pulsar astronomy , 3rd edn .",
    "cambridge univ .",
    "press , cambridge    lyne , a. et al .",
    ", 2010 , science , 329 , 408    manchester , r. n. , & taylor , j. h. , 1997 , pulsars .",
    "freeman , san francisco    manchester , r. n. , hobbs , g. b. , teoh a. , & hobbs , m. , 2005 , aj , 129 , 1993    marchant , p. , reisenegger , a. , alejandro valdivia , j. , & hoyos , j. h. , 2014 , apj , 796 , 94    ostriker , j. p. , & gunn , j. e. , 1969 , apj , 157 , 1395    pacini , f. , 1967 , nature , 216 , 567    pacini , f. , 1968 , nature , 219 , 145    pons , j. a. , & geppert , u. , 2007 , a&a , 470 , 303    pons , j. a. , vigano , d. , & geppert , u. , 2012 , a&a , 547 , a9    popov , s. b. , pons , j. a. , miralles , j. a. , boldin , p. a. , & posselt , b. , 2010 , mnras , 401 , 2675    regimbau , t. , & de freitas pacheco , j. , 2001 , a&a , 374 , 182    sang , y. , & chanmugam , g. , 1987 , apjl , 323 , l61    shabanova , t. v. , 1995 , apj , 453 , 779    shabanova , t. v. , lyne , a. g. , & urama , j. o. , 2001 , apj , 552 , 321    shannon , r. m. , & cordes , j. m. , 2010 , apj , 725 , 1607    stairs , i. h. , lyne , a. g. , & shemar , s. , 2000 , nat , 406 , 484    urama , j. o. , link , b. , & weisberg , j. m. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , l76    zhang , s. n. , & xie , y. , 2011 , astron .",
    ", 451 , 231    zhang , s. n. , & xie , y. , 2012 , apj , 757 , 153 ( paper i )    zhang , s. n. , & xie , y. , 2012 , apj , 761 , 102 ( paper ii )",
    "we obtain two dimensional marginalized distributions of all the parameters of our model with the following steps .",
    "( 1)to sample the posterior distribution of parameters , we use emcee code from @xcite , which provides a fast and stable implementation of an affine - invariant ensemble sampler for mcmc .",
    "we can get the @xmath69 through the analytic expression of pulse phases(see equation  ( [ six ] ) and equation  ( [ res ] ) ) .",
    "( 2)we fit the @xmath69 to the @xmath70 preliminarily to find the maximum likelihood .",
    "to each parameter , we start by initializing 100 walkers in a tiny gaussian ball around the maximum likelihood result .",
    "( 3)we sample the parameter space according to the @xmath71 regarding the set of parameters for which the @xmath71 is maximized as our best model , since the parameter set can reproduce the @xmath70 most closely . in this process",
    ", we also need to output the time series of each parameter in the chain , which shows the parameter values for each walker at each step in the corresponding chain .",
    "the walkers start in small distributions around the maximum likelihood values and then they quickly wander and start to explore the full posterior distribution .",
    "therefore , we can check if all the parameters are convergent through this .",
    "( 4)after making sure all the parameters are convergent , we can get marginalized distribution for each parameter independently in one - dimension histograms and two dimensional projections of posterior probability distributions(see fig.[wa - corner ] , fig.[wb - corner ] , fig.[wc - corner ] , fig.[wd - corner ] , fig.[ma - corner ] , fig.[mb - corner ] and fig.[mc - corner ] ) .        to further make sure that our best fitting parameters are credible , after getting the final posterior distribution",
    ", we also chose 500 samples from the time series of parameters in the chain randomly to produce 500 simulated timing residuals .",
    "the result shows that they all overlap well with the ` best ' simulated timing residuals , which are produced by our best fitting parameters ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we explain some phenomena existing generally in the timing residuals : amplitude and sign of the second derivative of a pulsar s spin - frequency ( @xmath0 ) , some sophisticated residual patterns , which also change with the time span of data segments . </S>",
    "<S> the sample is taken from hobbs et al.(2010 ) , in which the pulsar s spin - frequency and its first derivative have been subtracted from the timing solution fitting . </S>",
    "<S> we first classify the timing residual patterns into different types based on the sign of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> then we use the magnetic field oscillation model developed in our group @xcite to fit successfully the different kinds of timing residuals with the markov chain monte carlo method . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we simulate the spin evolution over 20 years for a pulsar with typical parameters and analyze the data with the conventional timing solution fitting . by choosing different segments of the simulated data , </S>",
    "<S> we find that most of the observed residual patterns can be reproduced successfully . </S>",
    "<S> this is the first time that the observed residual patterns are fitted by a model and reproduced by simulations with very few parameters . from the distribution of the different residual patterns in the @xmath1 diagram </S>",
    "<S> , we argue that ( 1 ) a single magnetic field oscillation mode exists commonly in all pulsars throughout their lifetimes ; ( 2 ) there may be a transition period over the lifetimes of pulsars , in which multiple magnetic field oscillation modes exist .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : magnetic field , stars : neutron , ( stars ) : pulsars : general </S>"
  ]
}