{
  "article_text": [
    "numerous substructures have been found so far in the halo of our galaxy , and although their census is far from complete , the main challenge now seems to be finding the connections between them , characterising their intrinsic properties , and identifying their origin .",
    "following several photometric and spectroscopic studies , it is now clear that a large overdensity of stars containing several density peaks and velocity signatures is present in the direction of the virgo constellation , its most prominent velocity feature being the vss rr lyrae ( rrl ) stellar stream ( duffau et  al .",
    "2014 and references therein ) . in order to investigate its nature",
    "we started a spectroscopic campaign to obtain medium - resolution spectra of some of its constituent rrl members to obtain the first detailed abundance analysis of this kind performed on an rrl stellar stream .",
    "rrl stars have proven to be excellent tracers of halo substructures , due to the quality of the distances that can be derived from them , and the relatively straightforward techniques that lead to their identification .",
    "however , they have so far never been used to determine the detailed chemistry of the substructures they reveal , since detailed abundance analysis is difficult for these pulsating variables .",
    "this is unfortunate , since the crucial chemical assessment of the substructures must then be derived from other stellar populations whose membership in the same substructure is less certain .    the vss is located at @xmath020 kpc from the sun and its core is at ra @xmath1 and dec @xmath2 .",
    "we have selected 7 targets in the area and obtained x - shooter@vlt spectra at a high signal to noise ( 80 or higher ) and a resolution of @xmath06000 for the uvb arm and @xmath010000 for the vis arm , covering altogether approximately from 2900 to 10000  .",
    "the data were obtained in service mode .",
    "in addition to our target stars , we obtained spectra for two comparison rrl stars from the for et  al .",
    "( 2011 ) sample as well .",
    "six of the targets had been found in a coherent structure in phase - space ( heliocentric distance - radial velocity space ) using a group finding algorithm developed in duffau et  al .",
    "( 2014 ) and one is a kinematical member from the first spectroscopic study in duffau et  al .",
    "all rrl stars selected are of type ab , which is more easily identified and less affected by contaminants than the type c members .",
    "we have conducted a first 1d lte atmospheric parameters determination and chemical analysis using the mygisfos code ( sbordone et  al .",
    "an example of a spectrum section is shown in figure  1 .",
    "we found numerous fei and feii lines allowing for the determination of the stellar parameters directly from the spectra . in only one case we had to fix the effective temperature to determine the abundances .",
    "the observations were performed attempting to constrain the phase range away from the rising branch of the light curve to where the effective temperatures are cooler and the abundance analysis is more reliable .",
    "regrettably , the ephemerides we originally used to plan the observations proved outdated and the observations ended up spanning a larger range in phase than intended . as a result , one of our target stars could not be analysed due to unfavourable phase ( at 0.97 ) coupled with a very low metallicity . of the remaining six targets ,",
    "four lie close or within the safest phase range ( at 0.25 , 0.34 , 0.51 , and 0.82 ) , and parameters and abundances could be obtained for them , while two lie outside of it ( at 0.10 and 0.14 ) and a few of the lines of some of the elements were lost .",
    "ratio as a proxy for the @xmath3-abundance of the vss sample ( large circles ) as compared to lg dsph galaxy data ( classical ; open squares , sgr ; small circles ) , mc rrl ( stars ) , and milky way data ( open triangles).,scaledwidth=100.0% ]     ratio for the vss sample , same symbols as fig .",
    "2.,scaledwidth=100.0% ]    figure 2 shows the results for the six rrls in our sample and their measured calcium abundance versus metallicity .",
    "the calcium abundance is taken here as a representative of the @xmath3-elements abundance of the system .",
    "the value for the observed stars is compared with those for a selection of `` classical '' dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsph ; including fornax , sculptor , carina , leo , ursa minor , sextans and draco ) , for stars and clusters belonging to the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy ( sgr dsph ; including terzan 8 , arp 2 , m54 , terzan 7 and palomar 12 ) , for a sample of milky way stars from the literature ( see sbordone et  al . 2015 and references therein ) , and for six rrl stars in the magellanic clouds ( mc ; haschke et  al . 2012 ) .",
    "figure 3 displays the results for four of our rrl stars that had both barium and yttrium measured . for the other two",
    "only one of those elements was measurable .",
    "the barium over yttrium ratio as a function of metallicity is compared to the value for the same systems as in fig .  2 , except for the mc rrls whose data for these elements was not available .",
    "in the case of the calcium abundance , we see that the value for the bulk of the vss stars compares better to larger systems like the sgr dsph and the milky way sample , than to the lower - mass classical dsph .",
    "this suggests a progenitor with a high star formation efficiency , hence likely a massive one , as massive as the sgr dsph or maybe even larger . in the case of the barium over yttrium ratio ,",
    "this ratio is taken as an indication of the efficiency of the s - process of the system under study .",
    "it is an observational fact that this ratio remains high for both the sgr dsph and the classical dsph galaxies when compared to the milky way sample in the metallicity range covered by the vss targets . in this case",
    "the value for the vss is more compatible with the milky way sample than with any other sample , again probably also indicating a massive progenitor .    to confirm our results",
    ", we will add the information from more elements and other nucleosynthetic channels and study the impact of nlte/3d effects in our preliminary conclusions .",
    "up until now , these preliminary results show , first of all , that x - shooter is a very effective instrument for determining detailed chemistry of distant halo rrl stars , as far as 20 kpc .",
    "they also suggest that we might have found a case of an accretion event as significant as the sgr dsph system , that has contributed stars to the galaxy with the typical chemistry of the smooth halo component .",
    "this project is supported by the ministry for the economy , development , and tourism s iniciativa cientfica milenio through grant ic120009 , awarded to the millennium institute of astrophysics ; by conicyt s pci program through grant dpi20140066 ; by proyecto fondecyt regular # 1141141 ; and by proyecto basal pfb-06/2007 .",
    "duffau , s. , zinn , r. , vivas , a.  k. , et  al .",
    "2006 , , 636 , 97 duffau , s. , vivas , a.  k. , zinn , r. , et  al .",
    "2014 , a&a , 566 , a118 for , b .-",
    "q . , sneden , c. , preston , g. 2011 , , 197 , 29 haschke , r. , grebel , a. k. , frebel , a. , et  al .",
    "2012 , , 144 , 88 sbordone , l. , caffau , e. , bonifacio , p. , et  al .",
    "2014 , a&a , 564 , a109 sbordone , l. , monaco , l. , moni bidin , c. , et  al .",
    "2015 , a&a , 579 , a104"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first detailed chemical abundances for distant rr  lyrae stars members of the virgo stellar stream ( vss ) , derived from x - shooter medium - resolution spectra . </S>",
    "<S> sixteen elements from carbon to barium have been measured in six vss rr  lyrae stars , sampling all main nucleosynthetic channels . for the first time we will be able to compare in detail the chemical evolution of the vss progenitor with those of local group dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( lg dsph ) as well as the one of the smooth halo . </S>"
  ]
}