{
  "article_text": [
    "throughout the history of the universe , various geometrical and topological features have formed , evolved , and vanished in the cosmic energy and matter distribution .",
    "it is undeniably critical to quantify and measure such features , since many of them can provide definitive probes for constraining important cosmological parameters .    during the past two decades",
    ", studies of anisotropic features in the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) , specifically acoustic peaks , have motivated the so - called @xmath4 cold dark matter ( @xmath4cdm ) cosmology as a standard paradigm ( e.g. , hinshaw et al .",
    "2013 , aghanim et al . 2015 ) and made a new step forward in precision cosmology .",
    "various experiments ( levi et al . 2013 , delubac et al .",
    "2015 , zhao et al .",
    "2015 ) , currently beginning or underway , are mapping out the expansion history of the universe with unprecedented accuracy , by measuring baryon acoustic oscillations ( bao ) .",
    "these experiments will also result in the most detailed maps of the large - scale galaxy distribution over a wide range in redshifts , from @xmath5 to @xmath6 .",
    "the successes of measuring cmb acoustic peaks and bao features demonstrate how important the two - point correlation functions ( or power spectra ) are for quantifying cosmic structures .",
    "higher order @xmath7point correlation statistics are essential for analyzing cosmic structures .",
    "for example , the three and four point correlation functions ( or , bi- and tri - spectra ) can constrain the non - gaussianity of primordial quantum fluctuations ( barkats et al . 2014 , ade et al .",
    "2015 ) ; however , these measures are computationally challenging ( e.g. , kulkarni et al .",
    "2007 , gil - marn et al .",
    "2015 ) .",
    "along with the successful @xmath7point statistics , many topological measurements have been introduced , such as genus numbers and minkowski functionals ( gott , weinberg & melott 1987 , eriksen et al .",
    "2004 ) . to identify voids and filaments ,",
    "various methods have been adapted from other fields of science , including minimum - spanning trees , watersheds , morse theory , wavelets , and smoothed hessian matrices ( e.g. , barrow , bhavsar & sonoda 1985 , sheth et al .",
    "2003 , martnez et al .",
    "2005 , aragn - calvo et al .",
    "2007 , colberg 2007 , sousbie et al .",
    "2008 , bond , strauss & cen 2010 , lidz et al .",
    "2010 , cautun et al . 2013 ) .",
    "while these topological diagnostics have provided important insights into the nature of structure in the universe , this wide but heterogeneous range of applied methodologies reflects how difficult it is to find a consistent and comprehensive framework for quantifying and measuring the topology of the universe , in contrast to the successful @xmath7point statistics .",
    "many of these studies generate a continuous density field by smoothing the galaxy point distribution and then measuring geometric topologies of genus numbers and minkowski functionals .",
    "our approach , which we term `` network cosmology '' , is to characterize the topology of the discrete point distribution directly using graph theory and network algorithms .    as a pilot study to explore new ways to quantify cosmic topologies , hong & dey ( 2015",
    "; hereafter , hd15 ) applied the analysis tools developed for the study of complex networks ( e.g. albert & barabsi 2002 , newman 2010 ) to the study of the large - scale galaxy distribution .",
    "the basic idea is to generate a graph ( i.e. , a `` network '' ) composed of vertices ( nodes ) and edges ( links ) from a galaxy distribution , and then measure network quantities used in graph theory . in this paper",
    ", we demonstrate the utility of these techniques for differentiating between point distributions that have identical two - point correlations but different spatial distributions and topologies .",
    "our paper is organized as follows . in ",
    "2 , as a more specific introduction to this paper , we offer a general discussion about what types of features can be measured from galaxy survey data , the strong and weak points of @xmath7point statistics , and how network representations of galaxy distributions can improve our ability to quantify topological features in the universe . in  3",
    ", we describe our samples to be investigated , the snapshot of illustris data ( vogelsberger et al . 2014a ) and lvy walks with various parameters . in  4 , we present the two - point correlation functions and network measurements from the samples and discuss the results . then , we summarize in  5 .",
    "sections 2.1 and 2.2 present the definitions of geometry and topology used in this paper and our overall philosophy in applying methods of network analyses to galaxy distributions .",
    "readers can skip these sections without losing the main thread of this paper .",
    "the terms _ geometry _ and _ topoplogy _ are often used interchangeably in astronomical contexts .",
    "geometry can be defined as the study of shapes of known metric dimensions , whereas topology refers to the intrinsic shape properties that are invariant to deformation ( i.e. , _ homotopic _ ) .",
    "for example , triangles are 3-sided geometric shapes that are characterized by the measures of their angles and sides . however , removing all metric features from triangles , we can also represent them topologically as a metric - free structure with three vertices where each vertext is connected to the other two by two edges .",
    "another well - known example is the comparison between a mug and a donut ; these are different geometric shapes with a common topology , the latter measured by a zero genus number .",
    "euler characteristics in graphs or genus numbers in manifolds are mathematically well - defined topological measures , invariant under homotopy or homeomorphism",
    ". however , most practical measurements are both geometric and topological , and do not have to be homotopy invariant in the strict mathematical sense in order to be topologically meaningful .",
    "for example , the set of roman alphabets is topological .",
    "we can consistently recognize letters irrespective of font or handwriting since each alphabet has its own distinct topology .",
    "`` i '' , `` k '' , `` l '' are topologically very different even in mathematically rigorous measures . however , `` i '' and `` j '' are indistinct topologically .",
    "they are discerned instead by the differences in length and curve ( angle ) .",
    "the process of reading , i.e. , visually measuring the characteristics of each letter , is predominantly topological but includes geometric aspects . in galaxy surveys ,",
    "@xmath7point statistics are typical measurements , as presented in  1 . these are geometrically driven measurements ;",
    "@xmath7point correlation functions contain specific information about distances and angles between galaxies . from a practical standpoint ,",
    "this renders @xmath7point statistics computationally challenging , since computation times are dominated by the handling of geometric information .",
    "if we are only interested in topological features , much of the geometric information is redundant .",
    "for example , if we need to count all triangles in a friends - of - friends network from a certain galaxy distribution , we can run a network algorithm to count all triangular subgraphs .",
    "we do not need to measure the three point statistic for the problem of only counting triangles .",
    "likewise , if we are interested in the number of holes for an object , we do not need to know whether it looks like a mug or a donut .    therefore ,",
    "in practical analyses , we need to determine whether we are interested in quantifying _",
    "geometric configurations _ or _ topological textures _ , when extracting measurements from galaxy survey data .",
    "theoretically , a complete set of @xmath7point statistics can suffice to characterize all aspects of a point distribution",
    ". however , such geometric analyses can be very inefficient when our prime focus is to quantify topological textures of the universe .",
    "to quantify topological structures of the universe , many conventional studies have used geometric topology , where a metric topology is well - defined in a continuous cosmic matter distribution , @xmath8 , or its density contrast , @xmath9 . in this approach , discrete observables such as galaxy or halo distributions , @xmath10 , are considered as biased samplings of the underlying continuous cosmic matter distribution .",
    "therefore , we generally smooth this discrete point distribution to approximate the continuous mass field .    in a different and empirical approach",
    ", we do not smooth over the discrete observable , @xmath10 .",
    "instead , we build a network structure ( or , a graph ) from this discrete observable , and measure network quantities ; hence , _ algebraic topology _ from _ discrete observables _",
    ", contrast to the previous approach of _ metric topology _ from _ continuous observables_. hereafter , we refer to the former as  da \" ( discrete and algebraic ) approach , and the latter as `` cm '' ( continuous and metric ) approach .",
    "the cm and da approaches differ in methodology .",
    "the cm approach is based on differential geometry and topology ; hence , parameters of geometric shape and topology are derived from differentials or integrals of the density field .",
    "for example , the hessian matrix is derived from partial differentials of the density field . from the eigenvalues of this matrix ,",
    "the clusters , walls , and filaments of the density field are classified ( aragn - calvo et al .",
    "2007 , bond et al .",
    "2010 , cautun et al .",
    "minkowski functionals are defined using integrals of the density field to quantify geometric and topological features such as area , perimeter , and genus ( mecke et al .",
    "1994 , park et al .",
    "2005 , hikage et al .",
    "2008 , ducout et al .",
    "2013 ) .",
    "on the other hand , our da approach ( which we refer to as `` network cosmology '' ) mostly utilizes network algorithms developed and used in computer science , mathematics , physics , and sociology . with its roots in euler",
    "s brilliant solution to the knigsburg bridge problem ( euler 1741 ) , network science has grown rapidly during the last two decades , driven by the growth of computing power , large databases , and internet infrastructures ( albert & barabsi 2002 , barabsi 2009 , newman 2010 ) .",
    "networks can be constructed for studying subjects as diverse as the relationships between costarring actors , protein interactions , paper citations , the food web , power grids , traffic patterns , the world wide web ( www ) , etc .",
    "many network tools have been developed to extract useful information from these various kinds of big data networks .",
    "we have attempted , therefore , to utilize these network tools for investigating galaxy survey data .",
    "for example , _ pagerank _ was developed for prioritizing the importance of www documents , used in the search engine , _ _ google _ _ ( page et al .",
    "we can measure these _ _",
    "pagerank__s for galaxies , once we build a galaxy network from galaxy survey data . as we have a friend recommendation from _ _ facebook _ _",
    ", such a recommendation algorithm also can be applied to our galaxy network .",
    "this is the basic philosophy of our network cosmology .",
    "early attempts of applying network science tools to galaxy point distributions made use of percolation methods and the minimum spanning tree , or mst ( see , e.g , shandarin et al .",
    "1983ab , barrow et al .",
    "1985 , colberg 2007 ) . since these pioneering papers",
    ", the tools developed for analyzing networks have proliferated and mathematically matured .",
    "our earlier work , hd15 , investigated galaxy distributions using various measures of network centrality ( degree , betweenness , and closeness ) . in this paper",
    ", we apply the network measures of _ diameter _ , _ giant component fraction _ , and _",
    "transitivity _ to simulated galaxy point distributions .",
    "it has long been reported that observed galaxy populations exhibit single power - law clusterings within several tens of megaparsecs in comoving scale ( e.g. , davis & peebles 1983 , shandarin & zeldovich 1989 , adelberger et al .",
    "2005 ) . within the cold dark matter paradigm of galaxy formation , galaxies are biased tracers of the underlying matter distribution and the clustering properties of different galaxy populations can be diverse , depending on how galaxies populate their dark matter halos .",
    "analysis of the two - point correlation function of different galaxy populations has resulted in the idea of the `` halo occupation distribution '' ; i.e. , the probability that a given halo contains a certain number of galaxies , and has given rise to various analytic and probabilistic formulations of this function ( berlind & weinberg 2002 , zheng et al .",
    "2005 , tinker 2007 ) . from these halo occupation studies",
    ", there should be a transitioning scale from the dominance of the one halo term to the two halo term ; hence there is no need for galaxies to show a single , seamless power - law clustering trend .",
    "the apparent single power - law behavior , especially for low redshift galaxies , is thought to be due to massive galaxy clusters whose contribution erases the transition feature ( berlind & weinberg 2002 ) . for a single power - law correlation , a couple of methods",
    "have been proposed to generate mock galaxies including lvy walks ( mandelbrot 1975 ) and multi - layered shells akin to russian dolls or onion rings ( soneira & peebles 1978 ; hereafter , sp78 ) .",
    "these models are `` statistical '' , since , unlike galaxies in simulations or the real universe , their clustering properties do not originate from `` gravitational '' interaction , but instead from a statistical fractal realization .",
    "these models can be tuned to match both the abundance and the two - point correlation function of the observed galaxy distribution .",
    "now , we raise two questions :    \\(1 ) what is the gap between gravitational and statistical realizations",
    "? , and    \\(2 ) can we quantify the gap to finally test how much statistical models are reliable as mocks ?    these are based on doubts about the sufficiency of information from abundance and two - point statistics for testing cosmologies and features that are missing in two - point statistics .",
    "interestingly , it is trivial for the human eye to capture the gap between statistical models and observed ( or simulated ) galaxy distributions .",
    "sp78 reproduced a reasonable first approximation of the observed galaxy distribution using their fractal model to match the observed single power - law clustering . and , due to some visual gap in spatial distributions between their models and observed galaxies , they remarked on the ability of the human eye , inherently optimized to detect topological patterns rather than mathematical geometries .",
    "sp78 note that patterns easily discriminated by the human eye are difficult to quantify , when compared to mathematically straightforward @xmath7point statistics .",
    "overall , sp78 implied that there are some features , easily captured by the human eye , that are not easily quantified by @xmath7point statistics .    in this paper",
    ", we show that statistical ensembles produced by lvy walks do not resemble simulated galaxies upon visual inspection (  3 ) , agreeing with the same qualitative conclusion of sp78 .",
    "however , to make a new step forward , we propose that topologically motivated diagnostics , especially the network measurements adopted in what follows , can quantify such eye - capturing features .    to test our proposal , we employ a simple setup , as follows .",
    "first , we adopt simulated galaxies as a cosmological sample . while there are discrepancies between observed and simulated galaxies , cosmological hydrodynamic simulation can provide accurate three - dimensional positions with realistic galactic properties , appropriate as a simple pilot study without any observational complication .",
    "second , we generate a statistical ensemble , using lvy walks , to match the two - point correlation function of the simulated galaxies .",
    "the next section ,  3 , will cover these two steps and present the spatial distributions of the simulated and statistical models to show any visual gap between them .",
    "finally , we measure network quantities for the simulated sample and statistical ensemble in  4 .",
    "these network measurements will explain why we recognize a difference between statistical and gravitational realizations by sight , while they have practically the same clustering property .",
    "this will lead us to discuss the limitations of @xmath7point statistics and the potential of network measurements as complementary topological diagnostics .",
    "in this section , we describe the two sets of simulated galaxy distributions , one resulting from a hydrodynamic cosmological simulation and the other a fractal generated by a simple lvy walk .",
    "the illustris cosmological simulation is a modern , publicly available simulation that computes the formation and evolution of both dark matter and baryonic structures ( vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014ab , genel et al .",
    "2014 , nelson et al .",
    "illustris was performed using simple models for the complex physics of star formation and growth of supermassive black holes and associated feedback processes ( springel & hernquist 2003 ; springel et al .",
    "2005 ; di matteo et al . 2005 ; sijacki et al . 2007 ; vogelsberger et al . 2013 ) .",
    "illustris was run with the moving mesh code arepo ( springel 2010 ) , an approach that offers advantages in flexibility and accuracy compared to other methods commonly used in cosmology ( e.g. vogelsberger et al .",
    "2012 , keres et al .",
    "2012 , sijacki et al .",
    "2012 , nelson et al .",
    "2013 , zhu et al .",
    "it yields one of the best simulated representations of galaxy morphologies created within the context of a simulation , and hence provides a reasonable dataset to mimic the properties of galaxies resulting from an observational survey .    specifically , we chose a single snapshot ( # 100 ) from the illustris simulation .",
    "its corresponding redshift is 0.58 , by which time non - linear structures are well - developed ; hence we observe rich topological structures .",
    "the size of the simulation box is @xmath11mpc in comoving coordinates .",
    "the resolution of the dark matter mass is @xmath12 m@xmath13 and the resolution of the baryonic mass @xmath14 m@xmath13 .",
    "we selected galaxies with stellar mass @xmath15 ; this yields a sample of 75,050 galaxies .",
    "hereafter , we refer to this sample as `` snap100 '' .",
    "the top - left panel of figure  [ fig : one ] shows the two - dimensional spatial distribution of snap100 , projected along the z - axis .",
    "we can identify rich structures of clusters and filaments .",
    "the red - open diamonds in the top - right panel of figure  [ fig : one ] show the two point correlation function of snap100 , measured using the method from landy & szalay ( 1993 ) .",
    "we do not apply integral constraints to any of the samples in this paper , since they are minor and contribute the same amount due to the equal survey volume .",
    "power - law slopes can be slightly shallower , when integral constraints are applied .",
    "the clustering of galaxies in snap100 is well represented by a single power - law with the slope , @xmath16 .      a lvy walk ( or a lvy flight ) is a random walk , whose step - size @xmath17 follows the distribution @xmath18 where @xmath19 is a minimum step - size and @xmath20 is a fractal dimension .",
    "the lvy walk was introduced by mandelbrot ( 1975 ) in cosmology as a method for generating a fractal galaxy distribution .",
    "the two - point correlation function of a lvy walk follows a power law @xmath21 where @xmath22 and @xmath23 is a constant determined by @xmath19 and @xmath20 .",
    "the typical lvy walk presented above is an unbound random walk . to compare a lvy walk with the cosmological simulation , we need to confine the walks to a cubic box",
    "hence , we apply a periodic boundary condition ; we refer to this new lvy walk as `` lvy walk in a box '' ( lwib )",
    ". the periodic boundary condition does not change the slope of two point correlation function , @xmath22 , but affects the clustering amplitude , @xmath24 , @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the total number of lvy walks and @xmath27 is the size of the box .",
    "the newly entered walks resulting from the periodic boundary condition contribute as random encounters to the previously occupied walks .",
    "hence , when increasing @xmath26 , the clustering amplitude , @xmath28 , decreases in lwib models .",
    "we set @xmath29 and @xmath30mpc to compare lwib with snap100 .",
    "although lvy walks are an elegant way to produce galaxies following a single power - law clustering , the caveat is that their power - law clustering property is only valid for @xmath31 .",
    "all galaxy pairs closer than this minimum length are _ random encounters _ resulting in flat clustering for @xmath32 .",
    "the middle panels of figure  [ fig : one ] show the spatial distributions of two lwib models , lwiba and lwibb ; their model parameters are summarized in table 1 .",
    "the top - right panel shows the two - point correlation functions of these two models , lwiba ( black ) and lwibb ( grey ) .",
    "the vertical dashed lines represent the minimum step sizes : @xmath33 ( grey ) and @xmath34 ( black ) .",
    "the two lwib models match well the two point correlation function of snap100 for @xmath35 .",
    "however , for @xmath32 , the clustering flatten out due to their intrinsic limitations , as noted above . to extend the power - law behavior to the smaller scales @xmath32",
    ", we need to make those random close pairs geometrically more compact .",
    "we refer to this small - scale tuning of clustering as `` proximity adjustment '' ( pa ) .",
    "there are many empirical approaches for determining the proximity correction .",
    "our method is to require : ( 1 ) the correction to be based on the lwib , and identical to the latter in the limit of zero correction ; and ( 2 ) that the corrections only be applied on small scales @xmath36 .",
    "we refer to the models satisfying these two criteria as  lvy walks in a box with proximity adjustment \" ( lwibpa ) .",
    "specifically , we choose a simple extension of lwib for our lwibpa model , as follows .",
    "first , from the initial position ( or the current position ) , we generate the next walk by lwib with @xmath37 .",
    "second , we find the nearest neighbor from the new walk position .",
    "third , if the distance from the nearest neighbor @xmath38 is larger than the minimum step size @xmath19 , i.e. , @xmath39 , then we accept this walk and proceed to the next iteration .",
    "if @xmath40 , we calculate a new step size from the new power - law of @xmath41 , where @xmath42 .",
    "if this new step size , @xmath43 , is larger than @xmath19 , i.e. , @xmath44 , then we discard this pa process to accept the original lwib position and proceed to the next iteration .",
    "if @xmath45 , we take a random roll , @xmath46 .",
    "if this roll , @xmath47 , is larger than our acceptance threshold , @xmath48 , i.e. , @xmath49 , we again discard this pa process to accept the original lwib position and proceed to the next iteration .",
    "finally , for @xmath50 along with the previous @xmath51 and @xmath45 , we accept this pa correction .",
    "we keep the direction between the nearest neighbor and new walk position to only replace @xmath38 with @xmath43 . whether the pa correction is accepted or not , the next walk is calculated based on the original lwib position .",
    "we build this pa recipe in a conservative manner to keep the new lwibpa as close as possible to the original lwib . to briefly summarize ,",
    "our lwibpa model is a broken two - power - law model with a threshold of acceptance probability determining the choice between the two power laws , and is represented by the five parameters @xmath52 .",
    "the bottom - panels of figure  [ fig : one ] show the spatial distributions of our two lwibpa models , lwibpaa and lwibpab , where their parameters are summarized in table 1 .",
    "the top - right panel shows the two point correlation functions of lwibpaa ( green ) and lwibpab ( blue ) .",
    "these two models are variants of the original lwiba model , sharing the same parameters @xmath53 ; but having different acceptance probabilities , @xmath54 for lwibpaa and @xmath55 for lwibpab .",
    "lwiba also corresponds to the model of @xmath56 .",
    "lccccc lwiba & 0.24 & 1.5 &  &  &  + lwibb & 0.20 & 1.6 &  &  &  + lwibpaa & 0.24 & 1.5 & 0.01 & 1.5 & 0.35 + lwibpab & 0.24 & 1.5 & 0.01 & 1.5 & 1.00 +",
    "in the previous section , we described our adopted simulation sets , snap100 , and lvy walk recipes , and measured their two - point correlation functions , as summarized in figure  [ fig : one ] .",
    "lwibpaa yields a good match to the correlation function of snap100 , at least to the accuracy of practical clustering studies .",
    "lwiba and lwibpab can be considered , respectively , as `` lower '' and `` upper '' bounds of correlation functions encompassing suppressed and enhanced small scale clustering .",
    "lwibb is a model with slightly different parameters , @xmath33 and @xmath57 , from lwiba , demonstrating that the clustering properties of lwib models do not change abruptly by choosing parameters nearby .",
    "hence , the four types of lvy walk models illustrated in figure  [ fig : one ] span a good range of possible lvy fractals , comparable to snap100 .",
    "the important point is that while the lvy walk distributions reproduce the two - point correlation function of the galaxy distribution in the illustris simulation , none of them mimic the actual spatial distribution of the snap100 galaxies . in particular",
    ", the lvy walks fail to reproduce the filamentary structure that is so characteristic of actual galaxy distributions .",
    "this implies that lvy fractals are not appropriate for explaining the structure of the ( simulated ) universe , and two - point statistics are highly degenerate . as noted in ",
    "[ sec : topologyintro ] , this is because topological features are elusive in @xmath58-point statistics , while human eyes are more adapted to effectively recognize topologies of patterns and connectivities .",
    "unlike what has been believed up to now , that such eye capturing features are hard to quantify , in the following sections we describe how such topologies can be measured using network science tools .     snapshot ( `` snap100 '' ) ( red - open diamonds ) , lwiba ( black lines ) , lwibb ( grey lines ) , lwibpaa ( green lines ) , and lwibpab ( blue lines ) . for each lvy",
    "walk model , we plot 5 lines for 5 realizations like in figure  [ fig : one ] to illustrate statistical variances .",
    "all the three network measurements show clear separations between snap100 and lvy fractals , implying that lvy walk models fail to match the topological properties of snap100 .",
    "the galaxy distribution in the illustris simulation is clearly not a lvy fractal .",
    ", height=7 ]              a _ network _ is a data structure composed of `` vertices '' ( or nodes ) connected by `` edges '' ( or links ) ; also known as a _ graph _ in mathematics . in the 21st century , network science ( or graph theory ) has becomes one of the most critical tools in various fields , such as bioinformatics , computer science , physics , and sociology . in a previous work ( hd15 ) , we explored the use of network measures ( betweenness , closeness and degree ) to investigate the relationships between galaxy properties and topology .",
    "the results were promising , but limited by the use of photometric ( rather than spectroscopic ) redshifts to characterize the 3-dimensional galaxy distribution .",
    "readers interested in networks are referred to newman ( 2003 ) , dorogovtsev & goltsev ( 2008 ) , barthlemy ( 2011 ) , and hd15 for further information .      to build a network from a given galaxy population",
    ", we adopt the conventional friends - of - friends ( fof ) recipe ( e.g. huchra & geller 1984 , more et al .",
    "2011 , hd15 ) .    for a given linking length @xmath17",
    ", we define the _ adjacency matrix _ as , @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the distance between the two vertices , @xmath61 and @xmath62 .",
    "this binary matrix quantitatively represents the network connectivities of the fof recipe .",
    "many important network measures are derived from this matrix .",
    "we measure three simple scalar quantities , _ diameter , giant component , and transitivity , _ from fof networks for various linking lengths , using the open network library , _ igraph _ ( csardi & nepusz 2006 ) . due to their simple definitions , these measures are computationally cheap and widely used in complex networks .",
    "the question is whether these network science tools can quantify the topological differences missed by two point statistics .    _",
    "the diameter _ is the largest path length of shortest - pathways from all pairs in a network .",
    "the path length is defined as the number of steps to reach from a certain vertex , @xmath61 , to another , @xmath62 .",
    "hence , the pathways of minimum path length are the shortest pathways between the vertices , @xmath61 and @xmath62 ; generally , there can be multiple shortest pathways between a pair in an unweighted network . when a linking length is quite small to isolate all galaxies alone , the diameter is trivially 0 . as the linking length",
    "is increased , the diameter grows to reach a certain maximum value .",
    "since , for a very large linking length , all pairs are connected by a single direct edge ( in the mathematical terms , forming a `` complete graph '' ) , the diameter asymptotically decreases to 1 , after reaching the maximum value .",
    "hence , this varying curve of _",
    "diameter vs. linking length _ is a quantified topology , depending on pathway structures .    _",
    "the giant component _ is the largest connected subgraph in a network .",
    "as in the case of diameter , giant components are trivial for the two extreme linking lengths . for a small linking length that isolates individual galaxies ,",
    "the size of the giant component is 1 . in the opposite case of a very large linking length forming a complete graph ,",
    "the giant component size is equal to the total number of vertices ( galaxies ) .",
    "hence , the ratio of the size of the giant component to the total number of vertices is a fraction that increases from 0 to 1 monotonically with the linking length .",
    "the rate of growth of this ratio depends on topology ; if a network has some topological structures to connect vertices more efficiently , the fraction of the giant component grows faster to reach 1 at a smaller linking length .",
    "_ transitivity _ can be described as a `` triangle density '' for a network .",
    "it is defined as : @xmath63 where @xmath24 denotes the transitivity ( newman 2010 ) .",
    "a path of length two means a `` @xmath64 '' shaped connection ;",
    "i.e. my friend - of - friend configuration in a social network . if my friend - of - friend is my direct friend , this path of length two forms a closed path of length two ; i.e. a triangle `` @xmath65 ''",
    ". therefore , equation  [ eq : trans ] predicts a higher transitivity value if there are more triangles in a network . to some extent",
    ", transitivity can be considered as a minimal ( and topological ) version of the three point correlation function .",
    "figure  [ fig : two ] shows the three network quantities for our 5 samples , snap100 ( red - open diamonds ) , lwiba ( black lines ) , lwibb ( grey lines ) , lwibpaa ( green lines ) , and lwibpab ( blue lines ) . as in figure 1 , for each lvy walk model we plot 5 lines for 5 realizations to illustrate statistical variance .",
    "the three network quantities are uniquely determined for a given linking length . namely , the three plots of diameter , giant component , and transitivity vs. linking length are self - consistently determined for a given spatial distribution like @xmath7point statistics without any further parameter or assumption , except for their independent variable , linking length .",
    "the top panel of figure  [ fig : two ] shows the results for giant component fractions .",
    "now we can quantitatively discern snap100 ( red - open diamonds ) from lwibpaa ( green lines ) , though they have ( practically ) the same abundance and two - point correlation function , shown in figure  [ fig : one ] .",
    "all the other lvy walk models also fail to match the growth curve of giant component fractions .",
    "when considering that lwiba and lwibpab are , respectively , lower and upper bounds of the small - scale clustering for lwibpaa ( and snap100 ) , the failures of all lvy walk models to match giant component fractions imply the fundamental difference in the pathway topology between snap100 and lvy fractals ; snap100 has more efficient pathways to connect all galaxies at a shorter linking length than lvy fractals .",
    "very likely , this is due to the _ filamentary structures _ in snap100 , lacking in lvy fractals .",
    "the middle panel of figure  [ fig : two ] shows the diameters .",
    "we can again see clear separations of snap100 from the lvy walk models .",
    "snap100 reaches the maximum diameter , 300 , at the linking length , 1.1@xmath66mpc , while lvy walk models reach the maximum diameters around 200 for linking lengths near 2.0@xmath66mpc .",
    "even for 100 lvy walk realizations , none of the lvy walk models can match the diameter measurements of snap100 .",
    "hence , both the size of the giant component and diameter are network measures that discriminate the lvy walk topologies from the illustris simulation , despite the data sets being constructed to have matching abundance and two - point correlation statistics .",
    "the linking length for maximum diameter is related to the inflection point of the growth curve of giant component fractions ; the rate of growth of the giant component decreases after reaching the maximum diameter .",
    "this transitioning feature occurs due to the `` saturation '' of connecting edges . at first ( i.e. , small linking length values ) , increasing the linking length results in adding new vertices and increasing the size of the connected network components .",
    "however , once the largest diameter is reached , increasing the linking length tends to form new pathways within the existing structure between more far - flung members and only slowly increases the overall size of the connected structure .",
    "therefore , the diameter is maximized at this critical scale , transitioning from `` growing phase '' to `` saturating phase '' .",
    "the previous percolation studies are closely related to this maximum diameter scale , though they have not measured these specific diameters .",
    "if the system size is infinite , the diameter measurements transit from finite values to an infinity near this scale .",
    "the bottom panel of figure  [ fig : two ] shows transitivity results . again , none of lvy walk models mimic the transitivity curve of snap100 .",
    "we note that the statistical variances of transitivity measurements are much smaller than the other measurements as shown in figure  [ fig : two ] , since a single realization of the network is statistically large enough for counting triangles .",
    "hence , the difference of transitivities between snap100 and lvy fractals also suggests that snap100 is topologically very different from lvy fractals .",
    "an interesting feature is the difference of convexities between snap100 ( concave or `` cup '' ) and lvy fractals ( convex or `` hat '' ) .",
    "the transitivities of snap100 are high for small linking lengths , then decrease to a minimum transitivity at 0.4 @xmath66mpc as the linking length increases .",
    "after this , the transitivities slowly increase to 0.8 .",
    "this transitivity trend of snap100 is related to the transition between the one - halo term to the two - halo term in halo occupation clustering models ( berlind & weinberg 2002 ) . for small linking lengths ,",
    "most triangles form in cluster environments reflecting halo substructures .",
    "hence , these `` intra - halo triangles '' ( i.e. , triangles lying within one halo ) dominate the transitivities for small linking lengths , and result in a decreasing trend from a very high transitivity . on the other hand , for sufficiently large linking lengths , `` inter - halo triangles '' ( i.e. , halo - halo - halo triangles )",
    "dominate over intra - halo triangles , simply because their configurations are more frequently found .",
    "since a `` @xmath64 '' shaped configuration becomes a triangle for a larger increased linking length , the transitivities for inter - halo scales are generally an increasing function .",
    "therefore , this is potentially a very interesting point .    for lvy walk models ,",
    "the origins of triangles are different from snap100 . for scales smaller than the minimum lvy walk step @xmath19 ( 0.2 @xmath66mpc and 0.24 @xmath66mpc in table 1 ) , the triangles originate from `` random '' encounters or our `` proximity adjustment '' recipe . for scales larger than the minimum lvy",
    "walk steps , the fractal lvy walks shape the rest of the triangles .",
    "hence , discontinuities occur at these breaking scales in transitivity curves . the typical fractal transitivities increase to reach maximum values , and then asymptotically decrease to around 0.75",
    ". these convex ( or `` hat '' ) trends contrast to the concave ( or `` cup '' ) shape of snap100 .",
    "figure  [ fig : three ] shows the edges ( red lines ) connecting galaxies in the giant component of snap100 , visualizing the spatial network structure of the giant component .",
    "the linking length is 1.1@xmath66mpc , where the diameter is maximized .",
    "the texture of this snap100 giant component can be described as `` thin , diversifying , and filamentary '' .",
    "figure  [ fig : four ] shows the same as figure  [ fig : three ] for lwibpaa .",
    "the linking length is 2.0 @xmath66mpc , where the diameter for lwibpaa is maximized .",
    "the texture of lwibpaa s giant component ( red lines ) can be described as `` thick , clumpy , and modularized '' .",
    "the blue lines show the edges of giant component for the linking length 1.1 @xmath66mpc , comparable to figure  [ fig : three ] .",
    "while the giant component of snap100 shows a fully developed global structure at 1.1 @xmath66mpc , the giant component of lwibpaa ( blue lines ) is still localized due to the lack of topological bridges .",
    "overall , the structural and topological differences between snap100 and lvy fractals are well reflected in network structure .",
    "figure  [ fig : five ] presents two basic schemas to demonstrate which topological configuration can increase ( or decrease ) the transitivity .",
    "we note that variation of transitivity depends on very complex topological structures .",
    "the schemas are only two possible cases among many .",
    "the top diagram of figure  [ fig : five ] shows that the new vertex ( asterisk ) and edges ( grey dashed lines ) produce four additional `` @xmath64 '' configurations , but none of them form a triangle ; hence , transitivity decreases by this new vertex .",
    "this schema provides a possible illustration as to why snap100 shows a decreasing transitivity trend at intra - halo scales . on the other hand",
    ", the bottom diagram of figure  [ fig : five ] shows that the new vertex and edges form three additional triangles to increase the transitivity .",
    "basically a linear chain of walks is less efficient in forming triangles than a gravitational pull to pack galaxies .",
    "this explains why lvy walks show smaller transitivities at small scales than snap100 .",
    "however , such low transitivity values can be restored as the linking length increases as in the bottom diagram .",
    "hence , the different behaviors of transitivity between snap100 and lvy fractals reflect the different topological bindings of galaxies ( or walks ) ; i.e. , gravitationally packed solid ball vs. linearly tangled ball .    ''",
    "configurations , but none of them form triangles . on the other hand , in the bottom diagram , three triangles form by the new vertex and edges .",
    "hence , the different convexities of transitivity curves for snap100 and lvy fractals reflect the intrinsic difference of topological structures .",
    ", height=3 ]",
    "in this paper we have used a network approach to compare two galaxy distributions with similar two - point correlation statistics but different topologies , one derived from a cosmological simulation and the other from a lvy walk .",
    "the network measures are computed directly from the point distribution of the galaxies , unlike past measures that characterize a smoothed continuous version of the point distribution .",
    "we find that the simulated galaxies and lvy walks are statistically different in diameter , giant component , and transitivity measurements , which shows that lvy walks fail to mimic the topologies of the distribution of the simulated galaxies , though they successfully match the abundance and two point correlation function .",
    "this implies that quantified topologies are important for testing cosmologies . while @xmath58-point statistics are undeniably useful diagnostics , their topological complementaries are necessary to properly test cosmologies and to prevent misinterpretation that could result from over - simplified false - positive models .",
    "we are grateful to an anonymous referee for comments that have improved this paper .",
    "sh s research activities have been supported by the national optical astronomy observatory ( noao ) and the university of texas at austin , and ad s by noao .",
    "noao is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy ( aura ) under cooperative agreement with the national science foundation .",
    "lh is supported by nasa atp award nnx12ac67 g and nsf grant ast-1312095 .",
    "99 adelberger , k. l. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 619 , 697 albert , r. , & barabsi a .-",
    "l . , 2002 , reviews of modern physics , 74 , 47 alon , n. , yuster , r. , & zwick , u. 1997 , algorithmica , 17 , 209 aragn - calvo m. a. , jones b. j. t. , van de weygaert r. , van der hulst j. m. , 2007 , a&a , 474 , 315 barkats , d. et al .",
    "2014 , apj , 783 , 67 barabsi a .-",
    "l . , 2009 , science , 325 , 412 barrow j. d. , bhavsar s. p. , sonoda d. h. , 1985 , mnras , 216 , 17 barthlemy , m. 2011 , physics reports , 499 , 1 berlind , a. a. , & weinberg , d. h. 2002 , apj , 575 , 587 bond n. a. , strauss m. a. , cen r. , 2010 , mnras , 409 , 156 csardi g. , nepusz t. , 2006 , interjournal , complex systems , 1695 ( http://igraph.org ) cautun m. , van de weygaert r. , jones b. j. t. , 2013 , mnras , 429 , 1286 colberg j. m. 2007 , mnras , 375 , 337 cormen , t. h. , et al .",
    "2009 , introduction to algorithms , 3rd edition , the mit press , cambridge , massachusetts davis , m. & peebles , p. j. e. 1983 , apj , 26 , 465 delubac , t. , et al .",
    "2015 , a&a , 574 , 59 di matteo , t. et al .",
    "2005 , nature , 433 , 604 dorogovtsev , s. n. , goltsev , a. v. , 2008 , rev .",
    "phys . , 80 , 1275 ducout , a. et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 429 , 2104 euler l. , 1741 , commentarii acad .",
    "petropolitanae , 8 , 128 eisenbrand , f. , & grandoni , f. 2004 , theoretical computer science , 326 , 57 eriksen , h. k. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 612 , 64 genel , s. , et al .",
    "2014 , mnras , 445 , 175 gil - marin , h. , et al .",
    "2015 , mnras , 451 , 539 gott j. r. , weinberg d. h. , melott a. l. , 1987 , apj , 319 , 1 hikage c. et al .",
    "2008 , mnras , 389 , 1439 hinshaw , g. et al .",
    "2013 , apjs , 208 , 19 hong , s. , & dey , a. 2015 , mnras , 450 , 1999 huchra , j. p. & geller , m. j. 1982 , apj , 257 , 423 keres , d. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 425 , 2027 kulkarni , g. , et al .",
    "2007 , mnras , 378 , 1196 landy , s. d. , & szalay , a. s. 1993 , apj , 412 , 64 levi , m. et al .",
    "2013 , arxiv:1308.0847 lidz , a. et al .",
    "2010 , apj , 718 , 199 mandelbrot , b. 1975 , c. r. acad .",
    "( paris ) a280 , 1551 martnez v. j. , starck j .- l .",
    ", saar e. , donoho d. l. , reynolds s. c. , de la cruz p. , paredes s. , 2005 , apj , 634 , 744 mecke k. r. , buchert t. , wagner h. , 1994 , a&a , 288 , 697 more , s. , et al .",
    "2011 , apjs , 195 , 4 nelson , d. , et al .",
    "2015 , a&c , 13 , 12 nelson , d. , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 429 , 3353 newman , m. e. j. , 2003 , siam review , 45 , 167 newman , m. e. j. , 2010 , networks : an introduction .",
    "oxford univ .",
    "press , oxford park , c. et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 633 , 11 planck collaboration , & ade , p. a. r. et al .",
    "2015 , arxiv:1502.01592 planck collaboration , & aghanim , n. et al .",
    "2015 , arxiv:1507.02704 shandarin , s. f. , 1983a , pisma astron .",
    "9 , 195 [ sov .",
    "astron . lett . 9 , 104 ( 1983 ) ] ( a ) shandarin , s. f. , et al . 1983b , usp .",
    "nauk 139 , 83 [ sov",
    "26 , 46 ( 1983 ) ] ( b ) shandarin , s. f. , & zeldovich , y. b. , 1989 , reviews of modern physics , 61 , 185 sheth j. v. , sahni v. , shandarin s. f. , sathyaprakash b. s. , 2003 , mnras,343 , 22 sijacki , d. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 424 , 2999 sijacki , d. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 380 , 877 soneira , r. m. , & peebles , p. j. e. 1978 , aj , 83 , 845 sousbie t. , pichon c. , courtois h. , colombi s. , novikov d. , 2008 , apj , 672 , l1 springel , v. & hernquist , l. 2003 , mnras , 339 , 289 springel , v. et al .",
    "2005 , mnras , 361 , 776 springel , v. 2010 , mnras , 401 , 791 tinker , j. 2007 , mnras , 374 , 477 vogelsberger , m. 2014a , nature , 509 , 177 ( a ) vogelsberger , m. , et al . 2014b , mnras , 444 , 1518 ( b ) vogelsberger , m. , et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 436 , 3031 vogelsberger , m. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 425 , 3024 zhao , g , et al .",
    "2015 , arxiv:1510.08216 zheng , z. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 633 , 791 zhu et al .",
    "2015 , apj , 800 , 6"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the large - scale distribution of galaxies is generally analyzed using the two - point correlation function . </S>",
    "<S> however , this statistic does not capture the topology of the distribution , and it is necessary to resort to higher order correlations to break degeneracies . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that an alternate approach using network analysis can discriminate between topologically different distributions that have similar two - point correlations . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate two galaxy point distributions , one produced by a cosmological simulation and the other by a lvy walk , that have different topologies but yield the same power - law two - point correlation function . for the cosmological simulation </S>",
    "<S> , we adopt the redshift @xmath0 slice from illustris ( vogelsberger et al . </S>",
    "<S> 2014a ) and select galaxies with stellar masses greater than @xmath1@xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> the two point correlation function of these simulated galaxies follows a single power - law , @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> then , we generate lvy walks matching the correlation function and abundance with the simulated galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , while the two simulated galaxy point distributions have the same abundance and two point correlation function , their spatial distributions are very different ; most prominently , _ filamentary structures _ , which are present in the simulation are absent in lvy fractals . to quantify these missing topologies </S>",
    "<S> , we adopt network analysis tools and measure diameter , giant component , and transitivity from networks built by a conventional friends - of - friends recipe with various linking lengths . </S>",
    "<S> unlike the abundance and two point correlation function , these network quantities reveal a clear separation between the two simulated distributions ; therefore , the galaxy distribution simulated by illustris is not a lvy fractal quantitatively . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the described network quantities offer an efficient tool for discriminating topologies and for comparing observed and theoretical distributions . </S>"
  ]
}