{
  "article_text": [
    "the cross section for producing jets in proton - proton collisions at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) constitutes an important testing ground of perturbative quantum chromodynamics ( qcd ) and offers information for the proton parton distribution functions ( pdfs ) .",
    "so far , all predictions for lhc experiments , and also for tevatron experiments , have been found in very good agreement with the measurements . in these predictions ,",
    "the contributions of heavy quarks ( charm and bottom ) are included .",
    "since they are usually only a few percent of the total jet production cross sections and considering the experimental error , it is not clear , whether the heavy quark jets are satisfactorily described by perturbative qcd ( pqcd ) calculations .    to test these heavy quark contributions ,",
    "it is necessary to compare to cross sections for the production of particular heavy quark jets .",
    "such measurements have been done recently by the cdf collaboration @xcite at the tevatron and the cms @xcite and atlas @xcite collaborations at the lhc .",
    "the cdf measurement of the inclusive b - jet production cross section in @xmath1 collisions is performed for jets with rapidity @xmath2 in the range @xmath3 and for transverse momenta @xmath0 in the region @xmath4 gev , for events , in which the decay vertex of the b - hadron is directly reconstructed . for this , the cone - based - iterative midpoint algorithm is applied .",
    "this algorithm is used for jet reconstruction in the @xmath5 space , assuming a cone radius of 0.7 .",
    "further details on b - jet identification through secondary vertex reconstruction can be found in ref .",
    "@xcite .    as a first step in a perturbative approach",
    ", one can , roughly speaking , describe the data by a leading order ( lo ) calculation plus parton shower plus hadronization , where the latter two are non - perturbative effects . in this sense ,",
    "next - to - leading order ( nlo ) calculations are part of the parton shower , which has to be treated accordingly , when higher - order calculations are explicitly included and multiplicative factors for the correct treatment of the non - perturbative effects have to be identified .",
    "the measured b - jet production cross section from cdf is compared to the leading - order pythia - tune a monte carlo @xcite program predictions with the cteq5l pdf , finding reasonably good agreement between data and pythia predictions @xcite , and to nlo pqcd predictions by frixione and mangano @xcite .",
    "this theoretical nlo prediction is based on the massive quark scheme or fixed flavor number scheme ( ffns ) , in which bottom quarks appear in the final state only , but not as partons in the initial state . here , the comparison is done applying a b - quark pole mass @xmath6 gev , the cteq6 m pdf , renormalization and factorization scales @xmath7 and @xmath8 set to @xmath9 , and with a cone - based algorithm using cone size @xmath10 and @xmath11 .",
    "furthermore , it includes an additional correction factor for non - perturbative contributions , i.e. , contributions from underlying event and hadronization processes equal to 1.2 at low @xmath0 and equal to 1.0 for @xmath12 gev .",
    "the data and theoretical cross sections are found in approximate agreement , most of the data points lie above the theoretical predictions by nearly 50@xmath13 .    at the lhc , two collaborations , cms @xcite and atlas @xcite , have measured inclusive b - jet cross sections at 7 tev center - of - mass ( c.m . ) energy . in this work",
    ", we shall concentrate on the comparison with the cms data @xcite .",
    "the jet transverse momentum in the cross sections presented by cms lies between @xmath14 gev for several rapidity intervals in the range @xmath15 . to obtain the bottom jets , the anti-@xmath16 algorithm @xcite with r=0.5 is used experimentally , as well as in the theoretical nlo calculations @xcite . in the cms experiment ,",
    "b - jets are identified by finding the secondary decay vertex of the b - hadrons .",
    "the measured cross sections have been compared to the pythia monte carlo generator @xcite , and to the mc@nlo @xcite monte carlo generator which is essentially based on the ffns nlo cross sections @xcite with the subsequent monte carlo herwig generator @xcite which contains shower and hadronic corrections .",
    "the mc@nlo predictions are below the data in the central region ( @xmath17 ) for low @xmath0 by approximately a factor of 1.5 to 2.0 .",
    "the predictions from the pythia generator agree with the data at high @xmath0 , but overestimate the cross section in the @xmath0 region below 50 gev .",
    "it is clear that the pythia and also the mc@nlo prediction depend on the amount of hadron corrections contained in these two monte carlo generators and it is not known which amount originates from the underlying leading - order or next - to - leading order hard perturbative qcd cross sections , the parton shower and the hadronic corrections .",
    "it is the purpose of this work to find out the nlo perturbative qcd cross section for inclusive b - jet production at the tevatron and the lhc center - of - mass energies and to supplement the nlo predictions with estimates of the hadronic corrections . in our calculation , the bottom quark is considered massless , like all other quarks u , d , s and c. so the calculations are performed in the zero - mass variable - flavor - number scheme ( zm - vfns ) as in our work on charm jets @xcite .",
    "such a framework has also been considered previously by banfi et al .",
    "they started from the nlojet @xcite program , which is an alternative to calculate jet cross sections in hadron - hadron collisions , where one sums over all flavors of outgoing partons .",
    "this program was modified in such a way that only b quarks ( or c quarks ) appear in the final state .",
    "in addition , they changed the jet algorithm for b quarks . unfortunately , this new jet algorithm for heavy quarks has not been used in the analysis of the experimental data yet .",
    "it is not clear whether this can be realized .    in sec .",
    "2 , we shall describe the theoretical framework and outline the pdf input for the initial state .",
    "section 3 contains our results for the bottom - jet cross section . in this section ,",
    "we also show a comparison with the single - inclusive jet cross section measured by the cdf collaboration at the tevatron .",
    "conclusions and summary are presented in sec .",
    "as in our publication on charm jets @xcite , we rely on previous work on dijet production in the reaction @xmath18 @xcite , in which cross sections for inclusive one - jet and two - jet production up to nlo for both , the direct and the resolved contributions are calculated . the resolved part of this cross section routine can be used for @xmath1 or @xmath19 collisions replacing the photon pdf by the ( anti)proton pdf .",
    "the routine @xcite contains quarks of all flavours up to and including the bottom quark , as well as the gluon .",
    "this routine has been modified in such a way that at least one bottom quark appears in the final state , in the same way as we did for the charm quark for charm jets in @xcite .",
    "the routine @xcite is written for massless quarks , i.e. also the bottom quark is considered massless .",
    "this is justified as long as the transverse momentum @xmath0 of the produced jets is large enough , i.e. for @xmath20 .    for our prediction of the inclusive b - jet cross section",
    ", we employ the mstw2008nlo @xcite pdf ( central value ) of the durham collaboration .",
    "the chosen asymptotic scale parameter @xmath21 gev corresponds to @xmath22 .",
    "we choose the renormalization scale @xmath23 and the factorization scale @xmath24 , where @xmath0 is the largest transverse momentum of the two or three final state jets . @xmath25 and @xmath26 are dimensionless scale factors , which are varied around @xmath27 in a manner to be specified later . the center - of - mass energy of the proton - proton collisions is taken as @xmath28 tev as for the data of cms @xcite , and as @xmath29 tev for the @xmath1 collisions as for the data of cdf @xcite .    the experimental data of cdf have been read off from the publications in ref .  @xcite . since the bin size in @xmath0",
    "was not specified there , we did our calculation with a bin size of @xmath30 gev and plotted the cdf data for fixed @xmath0 values .",
    "the bin size in @xmath0 for the cms data is taken from ref .",
    "the cms data @xcite appear for five bin sizes in @xmath31 between @xmath32 . in our comparison with these data ,",
    "we shall limit ourselves to the two most central bin sizes : @xmath33 and @xmath34 , where the discrepancy with the mc@nlo @xcite predictions is the largest .",
    "we start with the predictions for and the comparison to the inclusive b - jet production data obtained by the cdf collaboration at the tevatron @xcite . in order to check our program ,",
    "we have first calculated the cross section @xmath35 for @xmath36 in the @xmath0 range @xmath37 gev and with rapidity @xmath38 in @xmath0 bins as chosen by cdf @xcite for their measurement .",
    "correction factors that approximately account for non - perturbative contributions from the underlying event and fragmentation of partons into hadrons as given in ref .",
    "@xcite were multiplied to the theoretical results .",
    "these non - perturbative correction factors are estimated using the pythia - tune a monte carlo routine @xcite .",
    "the correction factors decrease with increasing @xmath0 and lie below 1.2 .",
    "the jets in the cdf analysis , as in our calculations , are defined with the @xmath16 algorithm @xcite with the radius r=0.7 .",
    "our results are shown in fig .  1 , and compared to the cdf data @xcite .",
    "the agreement is satisfactory .",
    "deviations occur for small @xmath0 and for the largest @xmath0 bin .",
    "the scales are @xmath39 and the theoretical error in our calculations has been estimated by varying @xmath40 by a factor of 2 up and down as usual . as seen in fig .  1 , most of the data points lie inside the theoretical error band . our results",
    "can also be compared to the theoretical curves in ref .",
    "@xcite which have been calculated with the jetrad routine @xcite and the pdf set cteq6.1 m @xcite instead of the more modern pdf ct10 @xcite used in our work .",
    "these different choices of pdfs may explain small differences in the nlo predictions in @xcite as compared to our calculation .",
    "the results for the inclusive b - jet cross sections at @xmath29 tev are shown in fig .  2 in lo pqcd and as k factors , where k is the ratio of the nlo to the lo cross section @xmath41 as a function of @xmath0 .",
    "the scales for the lo cross sections are chosen as in @xcite , namely @xmath42 ( default , full line ) , @xmath43 ( upper broken line ) and @xmath44 ( lower broken line ) . in fig .  2 , we have also plotted the data for the inclusive b - jet cross section as measured by cdf @xcite .",
    "these data in numerical form have been read from the publication in @xcite . as we can see , the corresponding lo cross sections are smaller than the experimental data by approximately a factor of 2 for low @xmath0 and 4 for the largest @xmath0 bin .",
    "the lo cross sections are multiplied with the hadronization correction factor 1.2 as reported in @xcite .",
    "if as usual , i.e. for jet cross sections of all flavors , the nlo corrections would increase the b - jet cross sections by factors 2 to 3 , we would have approximate agreement with the data . unfortunately , this is not the case as we can see from fig .  2 in the right frame .",
    "the k factors are smaller than 1 for small @xmath0 and approach values of 1 for larger values of @xmath0 depending on the choice of scales . for the scale choice @xmath45 , @xmath46 ( full line )",
    "this occurs at @xmath47 gev and for the larger scale @xmath48 , @xmath49 at @xmath50 gev ( upper broken line ) . for the usual scale choice @xmath51 the k factor is smaller than 1 in the whole considered @xmath52 range up to @xmath53 gev ( lower broken line ) .",
    "the reason for the k factor to be smaller than 1 at small @xmath0 lies in the fact that at these @xmath0 values the jet cross section for all flavors as in fig .",
    "1 has large contributions from the hard scattering cross sections for light quarks as for example @xmath54 , where q stands for u , d , s , c quarks .",
    "of course , these contributions are missing in the b - jet cross section . at larger @xmath0 ,",
    "these light quark contributions are presumably less important .",
    "these results can be compared to the b - jet cross sections obtained in the ffns , which can be found in ref .",
    "@xcite and which have been calculated with the nlo routine in ref .",
    "these theoretical results show the expected scale dependence , i.e. smaller scales for @xmath40 lead to larger cross sections .",
    "the scale @xmath55 is chosen as the default scale , @xmath56 for the maximal and @xmath57 for the minimal cross section . in our case with massless",
    "b quarks , it is just the opposite , increasing the scale @xmath7 leads to larger b - jet cross sections , since the nlo corrections are reduced with increasing @xmath7 .",
    "second , the agreement between theory and data in ref .",
    "@xcite is best for @xmath56 in the range of @xmath58 gev and for @xmath55 if @xmath59 gev , whereas in our case for all considered scales the data lie above the predicted cross sections .",
    "our nlo cross sections are shown in fig .  3 , now for the scale choices : @xmath48 , @xmath49 ( full line ) , @xmath60 , @xmath61 ( upper broken line ) and @xmath45 , @xmath46 ( lower broken line ) .",
    "the first and the last of these scale choices agree with those made for the k factor calculation in fig .  2 ( right frame ) .",
    "the choice of a larger renormalization scale , of course , has the effect that the nlo corrections to the cross section are reduced . at large @xmath0 ,",
    "the b - jet cross section for all three scales is almost the same as in the lo approximation ( see fig .  2 , left frame ) as to be expected from the k factors in fig .  2 ( right frame ) .",
    "for these results , the jet algorithm is the cone algorithm with @xmath10 and @xmath62 which is considered best to represent the cone choice in the experimental analysis @xcite . as pdf",
    "we have chosen the mstw2008nlo version @xcite .",
    "the nlo curves in fig .  3",
    "are compared to the data for inclusive b - jet cross sections as measured by cdf @xcite .",
    "the agreement is similar as for the lo cross sections ( see fig .",
    "2 left ) .",
    "the cross - section calculations in the ffns and in the zm - vfns behave quite differently , which follows already from the different scale dependence .",
    "the reason for this though is not known yet and would require a more detailed investigation , which is beyond this work .",
    "one possible reason might be that in our approach with massless bottom quarks , there are additional nlo contributions to the b - jet cross section originating from the b - quark pdf of the proton ( antiproton ) not present in the ffns , since there it would amount to a nnlo contribution .",
    "the unusual behaviour of the theoretical nlo prediction in comparison with the cdf data might be explained by missing non - perturbative hadronic and underlying event contributions .",
    "the cdf data have been compared in ref .",
    "@xcite also with the pythia - tune a @xcite predictions and good agreement has been found up to @xmath63 gev .",
    "the pythia monte carlo routines are based on lo hard production matrix elements and lo pdfs .",
    "our lo predictions have been done with the same pdf @xcite as for our nlo predictions and the results are shown in fig .  2 left frame .",
    "the different choice of pdfs should have only little influence in this case .",
    "we saw in that figure that the lo cross section is nearer to the cdf data and similar to the nlo cross section . according to ref .",
    "@xcite , the pythia prediction and the cdf data agree more or less , so that the difference between pythia and lo predictions would give a correction factor which brings the lo prediction into agreement and the nlo prediction , which is somewhat smaller at low @xmath0 than the lo prediction , much closer to the data than the nlo curve plotted in fig .",
    "in other words , for nlo , the data of cdf need a much larger non - perturbative correction factor than the factor 1.2 which we applied in our plot of the nlo cross section in fig .",
    "the correction factor 1.2 originates from the same pythia calculation , but with the difference that the contributions from multiple parton interactions and string fragmentation are subtracted from the pythia result , because they are usually considered already to be part of the nlo corrections .",
    "this means that a correction factor that contains besides the non - perturbative hadronization corrections and contributions from the underlying event also the parton showers must be applied to come closer to the experimental cross section .",
    "as is well known , this implies some double counting since the parton showers contain some nlo corrections which are already contained in the perturbative nlo contributions .",
    "we shall see in the next subsection that the same pattern also follows from the comparison with the b - jet production cross section as measured by cms @xcite .",
    "since we do not have the pythia predictions at our disposal , we can not be more quantitative concerning the comparison of the cdf data with our nlo calculations .",
    "it seems , however , that a much larger part of the b - jet cross section originates from the non - perturbative contribution and not just from the perturbative nlo contribution as it is the case for the single - jet cross section of all flavors .    at this point",
    ", we want to mention that the non - perturbative corrections are applied to the nlo b - jet cross section in form of a factor 1.2 , taken from @xcite and obtained from the pythia monte carlo routine which is based on lo b - jet cross section with massive b and c quarks and only u- , d- , s- and g - pdfs of the proton and antiproton . from earlier studies we know that the b - jet and c - jet production cross section in lo differs only at rather small @xmath64 from the massless lo cross sections . how finite values of @xmath65 and @xmath66 influence the parton shower contributions is not known .",
    "in addition , it is also not known how much the non - perturbative corrections are changed , if one adds b- and c - quark pdfs of the in - going hadrons in the lo cross section .",
    "the cms collaboration has also measured the @xmath67 cross section for all flavors in the range @xmath68 gev @xcite .",
    "this has been compared to our calculations using the same routine as in this work in fig .  1 of ref",
    ".  @xcite , with the result that good agreement between predictions and data has been found . in the following ,",
    "we show the comparison of our prediction to the cross section measurements for single bottom production @xmath69 published in ref .",
    "we do this for two rapidity regions @xmath70 and @xmath71 , and for the jet transverse momenta in the range between @xmath14 gev .    in ref .",
    "@xcite , the cms data have been compared to pythia predictions @xcite with the result that for @xmath72 gev good agreement had been found , whereas for @xmath73 gev the pythia prediction was much larger than the data .",
    "this also occurred for the other three rapidity ranges not considered in this work . in addition , the cms data have been compared to the mc@nlo predictions . for the two lowest @xmath31-regions , the mc@nlo values are below the data by a factor of 1.5 to 2.0 almost over the whole range of @xmath0 values .",
    "next , we want to see how well our nlo predictions describe the cms b - jet cross section data . for this purpose , we need to know the non - perturbative corrections . as an estimate for these corrections",
    ", we take the pythia predictions made available to us in numerical form as they were plotted in ref .",
    "@xcite by r. kogler and m.a .",
    "voutilainen from the cms collaboration @xcite . from the pythia cross section , we subtracted the lo predictions as we proposed already for the comparison with the cdf data .",
    "the pythia minus lo predictions are plotted in fig .  4 and fig .  5 for both rapidity regions @xmath70 ( dotted line in the left frame of fig .  4 ) and for @xmath74 ( dotted line in the left frame of fig .",
    "as can be seen form these two figures , for @xmath75 gev the cms experimental data almost agree with these non - perturbative contributions . for @xmath76 gev the data points deviate from the dotted histogram and at the largest @xmath0 bin , the dotted histogram yields approximately @xmath77 of the experimental cross section for both @xmath31 regions .    in fig .  4 ( left frame ) and fig .  5",
    "( left frame ) , we have also plotted our prediction for the nlo cross section ( full line histogram ) together with the scale variation ( dashed line histograms ) .",
    "these nlo cross sections are obtained with the scale factors @xmath48 , @xmath46 ( default prediction ) , @xmath60 , @xmath49 ( upper broken line ) and @xmath45 , @xmath46 ( lower broken line ) .",
    "the value @xmath48 for the default prediction has been chosen in order to reduce the coupling constant to obtain a reasonably large nlo cross section for the smaller @xmath0 , where the nlo cross section is still smaller than the lo prediction , giving rise to a k factor smaller than one , as we observed already for the prediction of the cdf data .",
    "at very small @xmath0 , our prediction in nlo is approximately a factor 10 smaller than the data points so that the non - perturbative part alone produces the b - jet cross section . for the larger @xmath0",
    "this factor reduces to 3 .",
    "this means that for all @xmath0 our nlo prediction is below the measured cross section data .",
    "the scale dependencies of the nlo prediction decrease towards larger @xmath0 and have , except for the first five @xmath0 bins , no large effect .    in fig .  4 ( right frame ) and fig .  5 ( right frame ) ,",
    "the nlo cross sections and the `` non - perturbative '' contributions pythia minus lo cross section have been added and compared to the cms data .",
    "we find reasonable agreement between this prediction and the data inside the experimental errors up to approximately @xmath78 gev . for larger @xmath0 , the difference between prediction and data increases .",
    "but even at the largest @xmath0 bin , the difference between the predicted and the measured cross section is not more than @xmath79 , while the measured cross section is throughout larger than the theoretical cross section .",
    "as already mentioned in connection with the comparison to the cdf cross section data , the pythia predictions contain not only the hadronization corrections , but also additional parton shower corrections , which on the other hand are also part of nlo corrections .",
    "of course , not all parton shower corrections would be equivalent to our nlo corrections , since they contain additional higher order contributions not contained in our nlo corrections .",
    "the numerical data given to us contain both contributions , hadronization corrections and parton shower corrections , together .",
    "usually the parton shower corrections contribute at small @xmath0 and diminish for increasing @xmath0 .",
    "suppose they would be negligible at the highest @xmath0 bin , then the hadronic corrections would still be larger than our nlo prediction in this bin ( see fig .",
    "4 and 5 , left frames ) .",
    "since we have no information on the details of the `` non - perturbative '' pythia corrections , we can not subtract the contribution originating from the parton shower corrections to obtain the purely hadronic corrections , etc , which are usually added to the perturbative nlo cross sections .",
    "we expect that after subtraction of the parton shower corrections , the agreement between our results and the cms data would deteriorate and we would obtain similar results as for the mc@nlo result in ref .",
    "@xcite , although these results have an appreciable error @xcite due to varying the renormalization scale , from variation of the parameters of the cteq pdf and from changing the b - quark mass .",
    "we have calculated the inclusive bottom - jet cross section at nlo of qcd in the zm - vfn scheme , i.e. , with active bottom quarks in the proton and antiproton at @xmath29 tev for @xmath1 and @xmath28 tev for @xmath19 collisions .",
    "both heavy quarks are considered massless .",
    "our results are compared to experimental jet cross section measurements by the cdf collaboration at the tevatron and the cms collaboration at the lhc . to our surprise ,",
    "the nlo cross section for both @xmath80 energies are much smaller than the measured cross sections .",
    "the nlo cross sections are for most of the considered @xmath0 range even smaller than the lo cross sections , i.e. the k factors are smaller than one .",
    "this means that the total nlo contribution , i.e. , without the lo contribution , is negative .",
    "there exist several possibilities to increase this contribution .",
    "examples are : contributions originating from intrinsic b - quark contribution to the hadron pdf , as has been considered recently by lyonnet et al . in ref .",
    "@xcite , or contributions from nnlo , which might become known in the future .",
    "another possibility are non - perturbative hadronic corrections which then must be much larger than have been estimated with the pythia monte carlo routine in ref .  @xcite .",
    "this approach has been followed in this work .",
    "it turns out that if the pythia predictions minus the lo perturbative cross section is added to our nlo predictions , reasonable agreement with the measured b - jet cross sections can be achieved for the cdf data as well as for the cms data .",
    "this approach has the problem of double counting due to the parton shower contributions in the pythia monte carlo approach , a topic which we leave for investigations in the future .",
    "we thank m. butenschn for reading the numerical cross section values from ref .  @xcite and r kogler and m. a. voutilainen for communicating the pythia prediction for the cms b - jet cross sections of ref .",
    "ib acknowledges support by the german science foundation dfg through the collaborative research centre 676 `` particles , strings and the early universe '' ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present predictions for the inclusive production of bottom jets in proton - antiproton collisions at 1.96 tev and proton - proton collisions at 7 tev . </S>",
    "<S> the bottom quark is considered massless . in this scheme </S>",
    "<S> , we find that at small transverse momentum ( @xmath0 ) the ratio of the next - to - leading order to the leading - order cross section ( k factor ) is smaller than one . </S>",
    "<S> it increases with increasing @xmath0 and approaches one at larger @xmath0 at a value depending essentially on the choice of the renormalization scale . adding non - perturbative corrections obtained from pythia monte carlo calculations leads to reasonable agreement with experimental b - jet cross sections obtained by the cdf and the cms collaborations .    </S>",
    "<S> desy 16013 issn 04189833    maphy - avh/2016 - 08 </S>"
  ]
}