{
  "article_text": [
    "a dusty plasma in the strongly coupled fluid state can develop visco - elastic properties that can significantly influence its collective properties .",
    "recent theoretical studies @xcite have predicted modifications in the dispersive properties of dust acoustic waves ( daws ) as well as the interesting possibility of exciting transverse shear waves ( tsws ) in the liquid state . in a series of investigations @xcite we have tested these ideas and looked for experimental evidence of visco - elasticity in the dusty plasma medium .",
    "we highlight two experimental findings in this report : ( a ) a turnover of the dispersion relation of daws caused by strong correlation effects ( as distinct from collisional effects ) and ( b ) controlled excitation of tsws over a range of frequencies and wave numbers .",
    "our experimental findings are in good agreement with theoretical results .",
    "the experiments were carried out in a dc plasma device consisting of a cylindrical chamber filled with argon gas in which a discharge is struck between a rod shaped anode and the grounded vessel ( for more details see @xcite ) by applying an initial dc voltage of @xmath0 volts at a gas pressure of @xmath1 mbar .",
    "fine kaolin particles are used as dust and a high density dust cloud is created near the cathode sheath by adjusting the voltage and pressure .",
    "the daw experiments were carried in the parameter range of @xmath2 volts and @xmath3 mbar .",
    "the waves were driven externally by imposing a modulated ac signal of very low frequency ( 1 - 3 hz ) on the dc discharge voltage and the wave patterns were recorded on a video and digitally analyzed . the frequency of the applied modulated voltage was varied over a wide range to obtain the dispersive relation . to distinguish between the dispersive effects of dust neutral collisions and dust - dust correlations",
    "the dispersion relations were obtained for two different gas pressures  ( @xmath4 and @xmath5 mbar ) corresponding to different collisionality regimes .",
    "our results are shown in figure 1(a ) and 1(b ) .",
    "the experimentally obtained dispersive characteristics ( plotted by filled circle ) are compared with the generalized hydrodynamic model results @xcite ( plotted by a solid line ) .",
    "both the theoretical and experimental dispersion curves at the two different pressures show a substantial reduction in phase velocity ( @xmath6 mm / sec ) , the existence of a regime where @xmath7 and a turn over effect at high wave numbers . for comparison we have also plotted the theoretical dispersion relation in which correlation effects are neglected ( by a dashed curve)(see fig .",
    "1(a ) and 1(b ) ) .",
    "it is clear from figure 1(a ) that the correlational effects are more dominant at low pressures and the additional dispersive contribution they provide best explain the dispersion characteristics of daws . at high pressure ( p=0.5 mbar ) , the decrease in @xmath8 leads to a decrease in the contribution of correlation effects and high neutral pressure makes the collisional contribution to rise as seen from the two theoretical curves of fig 1(b ) .",
    "so in this regime it is difficult to make an unambiguous experimental identification of correlation effects .    for the experiments on excitation of",
    "transverse shear waves a similar technique of external driving with a modulated voltage has been used .",
    "however the tsws are always found to be excited on top of a spontaneously excited daw .",
    "the tsw wave motion is observed to propagate perpendicularly to the direction of propagation of the acoustic waves with a phase velocity @xmath9 mm / sec .",
    "the linear dispersion characteristics ( empty circle ) , shown in figure 1(c ) , are compared with the viscoelastic theory ( plotted by solid line ) proposed in @xcite . in the high pressure regime ,",
    "the transverse oscillations get severely damped and are very difficult to sustain .",
    "these observations lend experimental support to the existence of visco - elastic effects in a strongly coupled dusty plasma and appear to agree quite well with theoretical predictions .",
    "1 m. rosenberg and g. kalman , phys .",
    "e , * 56 * , 7166 ( 1997 ) .",
    "p. k. kaw , a. sen , phys .",
    "plasmas , * 5 * , 3552 ( 1998 ) .",
    "p. bandyopadhyay , g. prasad , a. sen , p. k. kaw , phys .",
    "a , * 368 * , 491 ( 2007 ) .",
    "p. bandyopadhyay , g. prasad , a. sen , p. k. kaw , phys .",
    "a , * 372 * , 5467 ( 2008 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on experimental evidence of visco - elastic effects in a strongly coupled dusty plasma through investigations of the propagation characteristics of low frequency dust acoustic waves and by excitations of transverse shear waves in a dc discharge argon plasma .     </S>",
    "<S> address = institute for plasma research , bhat , gandhinagar - 382428 , india ,     address = institute for plasma research , bhat , gandhinagar - 382428 , india ,     address = institute for plasma research , bhat , gandhinagar - 382428 , india ,     address = institute for plasma research , bhat , gandhinagar - 382428 , india , </S>"
  ]
}