{
  "article_text": [
    "massive star formation must eventually differ substantially from low mass star formation because the outcomes are so different .",
    "massive stars form in groups inside dense clusters of lower mass stars and whereas in low mass star formation , more isolated single stars or binary stars are formed .",
    "both modes of star formation are initiated in cold molecular clouds so a key question is at what point of evolution do the two types of star formation diverge .    for several decades ,",
    "high quality data have been available for nearby low mass star formation .",
    "spatially resolved molecular line observations in many species and transitions can be readily obtained . by combining this data with radiative transfer codes ,",
    "it has proved possible to extract quantitative dynamical information from these high quality line profiles .",
    "in contrast , massive star formation is intrinsically rarer and of shorter duration than low mass star formation which makes observational targets statistically much more distant .",
    "however , comparable quality data to that of low mass star formation is now becoming available .",
    "major observational spectral line surveys in the millimetre regime are now being carried out of massive star forming regions across the galaxy , for example in nh@xmath0 ( hops , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , co @xcite , cs @xcite , and multiple lines malt90 @xcite .",
    "g333 is one of the most massive gmcs in the 4th quadrant of the galaxy and has been characterised by @xcite as being of radius 67 pc , distance 3.6 kpc and mass @xmath1 . in a companion paper to this work , lo et al 2015 present data from an observational survey of g333 on the nanten and mopra telescopes .",
    "this work is part of a series of observational studies of this region @xcite .",
    "the data revealed that three bright molecular line sources exhibit signature signs of infall .",
    "these are designated g333.60.2 , g333.10.4 and g332.80.5 . within a mopra beam size of the outflow sources",
    "are radio - detected hii regions , 1.2-mm dust emission clumps @xcite , and masers and _ iras _ sources , features which are all consistent with the presence of high mass star formation .",
    "the mass and temperature of each source were confined with a detailed analysis of the observed luminosities . in particular , the masses were constrained by using the ( 10 ) line flux as the co(10 ) lines were found to be optically thick . therein results from a first attempt at radiative transfer modelling of the sources",
    "were presented . here",
    "we expand on the findings from the observations and earlier modelling by presenting radiative transfer modelling of the three sources in agreement with the observational results to quantify limits for the turbulent velocity , infall velocities , and chemical abundances .",
    "as the three high mass star forming regions ( hmsfr ) are located within a massive giant molecular cloud ( gmc ) complex , the analysis was hampered by the multiplicity of sources present and the confusion of their association with features both spatially and kinematically .",
    "the outflows are thus less well - defined than in low mass star forming regions ( lmsfr ) and the clean , detailed analysis that is possible there is not possible here . in particular , g333.60.2 presents a complex field of features in co(10 ) and presents very strong absorption in ( 10 ) and so also presents a particular challenge for modelling . despite these complications ,",
    "many physical parameters can be constrained from the observations .",
    "these data and their analysis are presented in full in @xcite . here",
    "we reproduce the tables summarizing the major results in table  [ tab : derivedproperties ] .",
    "we will constrain ourselves to models that are in agreement with the core and outflow properties determined by @xcite .",
    "the observational evidence presented by @xcite for outflows from the three sources is robust .",
    "outflows are ultimately powered by infall but the dynamical signature of infall is much harder to detect for several reasons .",
    "firstly , the gas undergoing the most rapid infall is located close to the central protostellar source - disk system which is typically unresolved by single dish observations .",
    "gas in the outer regions of the cloud may have small infall motions but these can easily be masked by effects such as turbulence or bulk oscillations of the cloud .",
    "secondly , infall takes place over a spherical volume in contrast to the highly directional outflows so that gas moving in a range of directions is typically present within a beam .",
    "thirdly , effects such as rotation @xcite , turbulence and bulk oscillations @xcite can complicate the identification of an infall signature . to demonstrate that infall is also present therefore requires careful consideration of the radiative transfer effects taking place in potential sources .        [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "data from three massive star - forming cores in the g333 giant molecular cloud , obtained with mopra was used to investigate the dynamics and chemistry of these sources .",
    "self - consistent 3-d molecular line radiative transfer modelling of the observed lines with the mollie code has confirmed the presence of infall in the sources .",
    "the modelled infall velocities are 1.5 to 3.5 kms@xmath2  with infall rate of order @xmath3 m@xmath4yr@xmath2 .",
    "derived time - scales suggest the three cores may be undergoing accelerated collapse as shown in @xcite , possibly due to external pressure from dynamical activities among high - mass star forming regions .",
    "there is evidence of significant molecular depletion due to freeze - out , with the remaining gas phase molecules being subject to strong fractionation effects in species .",
    "the turbulent and infall velocities associated with these hmsfrs are an order of magnitude larger than those expected in the low - mass case .",
    "the highly supersonic velocity structure in turbulence and infall will very naturally lead to localised shocks that could supply the @xmath5c@xmath6 ions needed to fractionate co and hco@xmath6 .",
    "the many similarities of these massive cores with their low mass counterparts is supportive of view of massive star formation being a scaled - up version of low mass star formation .",
    "the principal and crucial difference is that the internal velocity fields are highly supersonic in the massive star formation case , and this gives a natural way to fragment the cloud into many individual star forming units , as required to form the dense clusters of low mass stars seen associated with young massive stars .",
    "nl s postdoctoral fellowship is supported by a conicyt / fondecyt postdoctorado , under project no . 3130540 .",
    "nl acknowledges partial support from the alma - conicyt fund for the development of chilean astronomy project 31090013 , center of excellence in astrophysics and associated technologies ( pfb 06 ) and centro de astrofsica fondap15010003 .",
    "mpr acknowledges support from a science foundation ireland research frontiers grant .",
    "lb acknowledges support from conicyt project pfb 06 .",
    "the mopra telescope and atca are part of the australia telescope and are funded by the commonwealth of australia for operation as national facility managed by csiro .",
    "the unsw - mops digital filter bank used for the observations with the mopra telescope was provided with support from the university of new south wales , monash university , university of sydney and australian research council .",
    "this work has made use of the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france and also nasa s astrophysics data system .",
    "we have also made use of the nist recommended rest frequencies for observed interstellar molecular microwave transitions , by frank j. lovas .",
    "we thank the referee for the constructive comments on improving this work .",
    "m.  g. , braiding c. , glueck c. , goldsmith p. , hawkes j. , hollenbach d.  j. , kulesa c. , martin c.  l. , pineda j.  l. , rowell g. , simon r. , stark a.  a. , stutzki j. , tothill n.  j.  h. , urquhart j.  s. , walker c. , walsh a.  j. , wolfire m. , 2013 , pasa , 30 , 44                          p.  a. , cunningham m.  r. , bains i. , muller e. , wong t. , burton m.  g. , 2007 , in elmegreen b.  g. , palous j. , eds , iau symposium vol .  237 of iau symposium , turbulence in the g333 molecular cloud .",
    "pp 429429    c.  h. , walsh a.  j. , lowe v. , voronkov m.  a. , ellingsen s.  p. , breen s.  l. , purcell c.  r. , barnes p.  j. , burton m.  g. , cunningham m.  r. , hill t. , jackson j.  m. , longmore s.  n. , peretto n. , urquhart j.  s. , 2015 , mnras , 448 , 2344"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> three bright molecular line sources in g333 have recently been shown to exhibit signatures of infall . </S>",
    "<S> we describe a molecular line radiative transfer modelling process which is required to extract the infall signature from mopra and nanten2 data . </S>",
    "<S> the observed line profiles differ greatly between individual sources but are reproduced well by variations upon a common unified model where the outflow viewing angle is the most significant difference between the sources . </S>",
    "<S> the models and data together suggest that the observed properties of the high - mass star - forming regions such as infall , turbulence , and mass are consistent with scaled - up versions of the low - mass case with turbulent velocities that are supersonic and an order of magnitude larger than those found in low - mass star - forming regions . using detailed radiative transfer modeling , </S>",
    "<S> we show that the g333 cores are essentially undergoing a scaled - up version of low mass star formation . </S>",
    "<S> this is an extension of earlier work in that the degree of infall and the chemical abundances are constrained by the rt modeling in a way that is not practical with a standard analysis of observational data . </S>",
    "<S> we also find high velocity infall and high infall mass rates , possibly suggesting accelerated collapse due to external pressure </S>",
    "<S> . molecular depletion due to freeze - out onto dust grains in central regions of the cores is suggested by low molecular abundances of several species . </S>",
    "<S> strong evidence for a local enhancement of -bearing species towards the outflow cloud cores is discussed , consistent with the presence of shocks caused by the supersonic motions within them .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : formation  ism : clouds  ism : molecules  ism : structure  radio lines : ism . </S>"
  ]
}