{
  "article_text": [
    "when a particle is placed in a symmetric periodic potential and subjected to an ac drive , in general the particle simply rocks back and forth and undergoes no net dc motion .",
    "if an external dc drive @xmath0 is imposed on a particle in a substrate , the particle has no net dc motion and remains pinned as long as @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is the critical depinning force for motion over the substrate .",
    "once @xmath3 , the particle enters a sliding state @xcite .",
    "when the motion of the particle is overdamped , its dynamics can be described by the following equation of motion : @xmath4 where @xmath5 is the damping constant , @xmath6 is the force from the substrate , @xmath7 is the interaction force from the other particles , @xmath8 is an externally applied driving force , and @xmath9 is a stochastic force representing thermal fluctuations .",
    "the situation changes if the substrate is asymmetric .",
    "an example of a one - dimensional ( 1d ) asymmetric substrate potential with periodicity @xmath10 , @xmath11 , \\ ] ] is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:1](a ) . in the absence of thermal fluctuations ,",
    "the maximum pinning force exerted by the substrate on the particle for motion in the positive @xmath12-direction is @xmath13 , while the maximum pinning force for motion in the negative @xmath12-direction has a smaller value of @xmath14 . as a result ,",
    "if an externally applied ac driving force of the form @xmath15 is introduced , then the particle remains trapped and oscillates within a single potential minimum for @xmath16 . in contrast , when @xmath17 , the particle can overcome the substrate potential barrier for motion in the negative @xmath12-direction but can not overcome the barrier for motion in the positive @xmath12-direction , so that during each ac cycle the particle undergoes a net dc transport in the negative @xmath12-direction .",
    "such motion is termed a ratchet effect .",
    "the amount of dc translation that occurs per cycle depends on the amplitude and frequency of the ac drive . for fixed ac frequency ,",
    "the efficiency of the ratchet is generally nonmonotonic , increasing with increasing @xmath18 for @xmath19 and then decreasing with increasing @xmath18 at higher @xmath18 @xcite .",
    "( b ) a quasi-1d version of the same substrate for particles moving in two dimensions . adapted from c. reichhardt , d. ray , and c.j .",
    "olson reichhardt , new j. phys .",
    "17 , 070304 ( 2015 ) .",
    "( c ) a line of 2d funnels or barriers ( yellow ) affecting the motion of interacting particles ( green ) .",
    "the easy direction for the ratchet effect is the positive @xmath20 direction , toward the top of the panel . , title=\"fig:\",width=384 ]   direction .",
    "( b ) a quasi-1d version of the same substrate for particles moving in two dimensions . adapted from c. reichhardt , d. ray , and c.j .",
    "olson reichhardt , new j. phys .",
    "17 , 070304 ( 2015 ) .",
    "( c ) a line of 2d funnels or barriers ( yellow ) affecting the motion of interacting particles ( green ) .",
    "the easy direction for the ratchet effect is the positive @xmath20 direction , toward the top of the panel .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=192 ]    when the mechanism responsible for producing a ratchet effect is an ac driving force , the system is known as a rocking ratchet .",
    "an alternative mechanism operates in a flashing ratchet , where thermally diffusing particles are placed on a substrate that is periodically flashed on and off , and where a maximum ratchet efficiency emerges as a function of flashing frequency @xcite . in the single particle limit for overdamped particles ,",
    "the ratchet effect causes the particle to translate along the easy direction of the substrate regardless of the nature of the ratchet . when collective particle - particle interactions are introduced , however , it is possible to observe reversals of the ratchet effect , where the motion is along the hard direction of the substrate asymmetry @xcite .",
    "these reversals are often produced by commensurability effects between the interacting particles and the substrate , where emergent quasiparticle objects such as kinks or antikinks dominate the transport and behave as if they are moving through an inverted substrate potential .",
    "examples of higher - dimensional asymmetric substrates on which ratchet effects can occur appear in fig .",
    "[ fig:1](b ) , which shows a quasi-1d asymmetric potential with no structure transverse to the asymmetry direction @xcite , and in fig .",
    "[ fig:1](c ) , which shows a linear array of v - shaped barriers @xcite .",
    "the asymmetry necessary for generating ratchet effects can also be introduced by placing individual symmetric pinning sites in an array that has a density gradient along one direction @xcite . in geometric or drift ratchets , which require a minimum of two spatial dimensions , particles driven over an asymmetric substrate by a dc drive",
    "undergo a net dc drift in the direction transverse to the applied dc drive @xcite . in transverse ratchets , which are",
    "a variation of drift ratchets , a net dc ratchet motion arises in the direction transverse to an applied ac driving force @xcite .",
    "additional ratchet effects including ratchet reversals can arise when there are non - dissipative terms in the equations of particle motion , such as inertia @xcite or a magnus term @xcite .",
    "studies of ratchet effects have been performed for colloids interacting with asymmetric flashing substrates @xcite , vortices in type - ii superconductors interacting with asymmetric periodic 1d @xcite and 2d substrates @xcite , granular matter on sawtooth substrates @xcite , cold atoms @xcite , electron systems @xcite , and domain walls moving over asymmetric substrates @xcite .",
    "these systems all require application of some form of external driving in order to create the nonequilibrium conditions necessary for a ratchet effect to occur . in a different class of nonequilibrium systems ,",
    "the dynamics is governed by internal driving or self - propulsion @xcite .",
    "these active matter systems include flocking and swarming particles , pedestrian and traffic flow , swimming bacteria , crawling cells , and actin filaments .",
    "active matter has been attracting growing attention due to the increasing availability of non - biological active systems such as artificial swimmers , self - driven colloids , robot swarms , and autonomous agents .",
    "such systems exhibit a variety of phenomena including pattern formation @xcite , self - clustering @xcite , and nonequilibrium phase transitions @xcite , and represent a rich and very active field of research .",
    "one of the first demonstrations of an active matter ratchet was achieved by p. galajda _",
    "@xcite for a system of _",
    "e. coli _ swimming in a sample divided into two chambers by an array of funnel - shaped barriers similar to those illustrated in fig .  [ fig:1](c ) .",
    "the entire sample is 400@xmath21 m on a side , while the funnel barriers are each 27@xmath21 m long , form a @xmath22 angle at their tips , and have a minimum separation of 3.8@xmath21 m between adjacent funnels . if brownian particles are placed at a uniform density in such a geometry , the density remains equal in both chambers of the sample .",
    "in contrast , when an equal number of swimming bacteria are introduced into each chamber , after roughly an hour there is a buildup of bacteria in the chamber that is on the easy - flow side of the funnel barriers , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:2](a , b ) . in the figure ,",
    "the easy - flow direction is to the right . in fig .",
    "[ fig:2](c ) , the ratio @xmath23 of the bacterial concentration @xmath24 in the right and left chambers , @xmath25 , has an initial value of @xmath26 at time @xmath27 and saturates to a value of @xmath28 at longer times , showing that a ratchet effect is occurring . when the same experiment is performed with chambers separated by symmetric holes instead of asymmetric funnels , then @xmath29 at all times , indicating that the asymmetry of the funnel is a crucial ingredient for the occurrence of rectification .",
    "when a mixture of swimming and non - swimming bacteria is placed in the sample , the swimming bacteria are rectified while the non - swimming bacteria are not , showing that swimming is also important in producing the ratchet effect . due to the complexity of bacterial systems , it was not obvious whether this initial observation of an active matter ratchet effect could be understood as being produced solely by the dynamics of the self - propulsion combined with bacteria - wall interactions , or whether more complex bacterial behaviors play a role in the ratcheting motion .",
    "( c ) . the easy - flow direction through the barriers is toward the right chamber .",
    "( a ) the initial uniform distribution of bacteria at time @xmath27 .",
    "( b ) the distribution at @xmath30 minutes showing that the bacteria concentration is significantly higher in the right chamber .",
    "( c ) the ratio @xmath31 of the bacteria density @xmath24 in the right and left chambers versus time , showing that a rectification effect is occurring .",
    "reprinted with permission from p. galajda , j. keymer , p. chaikin , and r. austin , j. bacteriol .",
    "189 , 8704 ( 2007 ) .",
    "copyright 2007 by the american society for microbiology .",
    ", width=288 ]    wan _ et al . _",
    "@xcite subsequently studied a simple model of pointlike run - and - tumble particles moving in a 2d container with the same funnel barrier geometry used in the experiments of ref .",
    "@xcite , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:3 ] . in this model , particle",
    "@xmath32 obeys the following overdamped equation of motion : @xmath33 where @xmath5 is the damping coefficient and @xmath34 is the location of particle @xmath32 . instead of the external driving force used in eqn .",
    "3 contains a motor force @xmath35 representing self - propulsion in a randomly - chosen direction that remains constant during a running time @xmath36 .",
    "every @xmath36 simulation time steps , particle @xmath32 undergoes an instantaneous tumbling event during which the motor force is reoriented into a new random direction .",
    "the particle then runs in this new direction during the next time period @xmath36 before tumbling again .",
    "the running speed @xmath37 is held constant . for an isolated particle in the absence of any barriers",
    ", the motor force produces a motion that is ballistic at short times and diffusive at very long times @xcite . if the particle does not collide with any other objects , then during a single running time it translates by one run length @xmath38 , which is a distance of @xmath39 .",
    "the stochastic thermal force @xmath40 has the properties @xmath41 and @xmath42 . if @xmath43 so that the particles experience only thermal fluctuations but no motor force , then no rectification occurs .",
    "@xmath44 represents particle - particle interactions , while @xmath45 is the particle - barrier interaction term .",
    "the barriers and confining walls are modeled as exerting a short - range steric repulsion on particle @xmath32 , and a particle interacting with a barrier or wall runs along the wall at a speed determined by the component of @xmath46 that is parallel to the wall until the particle reaches the end of the wall or undergoes a tumbling event that rotates its running direction away from the wall .     between tumbles .",
    "( b ) after 100 tumbling events , the particle density in the upper chamber has increased .",
    "( c ) ratios @xmath47 ( upper red line ) and @xmath48 ( lower blue line ) of the particle density @xmath49 in the upper chamber and @xmath50 in the lower chamber to the initial particle density @xmath51 as a function of time .",
    "solid lines are for a sample with a run length of @xmath52 where there is a large rectification effect , and dashed lines are for a sample with a run length of @xmath53 where the rectification effect is negligible . adapted from m. b. wan , c. j. olson reichhardt , z. nussinov , and c. reichhardt , phys .",
    "rev . lett .",
    "* 101 * , 018102 ( 2008 ) .",
    "copyright 2008 by the american physical society .",
    ", width=288 ]    a simulated system in which particle - particle interactions and thermal fluctuations are both neglected , so that the particles experience only a motor force propulsion and interactions with the barriers and walls , is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:3](a , b ) .",
    "the sample is of size @xmath54 on a side , where @xmath55 is the unit of distance in the simulation , and contains 12 funnel barriers that each have a tip angle of @xmath22 and an arm length of @xmath56 .",
    "the running length is @xmath57 , so a particle can move much further than the length of a funnel arm during a single run time .",
    "the particle density is initially uniform , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:3](a ) , but after a time @xmath58 , fig .",
    "[ fig:3](b ) shows that the particle density has increased in the upper chamber .",
    "the ratio of the particle density @xmath49 in the upper chamber and @xmath50 in the lower chamber to the initial particle density @xmath51 is plotted as a function of simulation time steps in fig .",
    "[ fig:3](c ) .",
    "the solid lines show that in a system with @xmath59 , the density in the upper chamber increases over time with a simultaneous decrease in the lower chamber density until the sample reaches a steady state .",
    "the dashed lines indicate that when the running length is very short , @xmath60 , the density in both chambers remains nearly constant at a value equal to the initial particle density .",
    "when @xmath38 is very small , the particle motion is brownian - like , so no rectification can occur .",
    "the steady - state ratio @xmath61 is plotted as a function of @xmath62 in fig .",
    "[ fig:4 ] . for small @xmath38 , @xmath63 , while for large @xmath38",
    ", @xmath64 reaches a value of nearly @xmath65 .",
    "the inset of fig .",
    "[ fig:4 ] illustrates the ratchet mechanism .",
    "the left inset shows that under the wall - following rule of motion , when @xmath38 is sufficiently large , a particle approaching the funnel barrier from the top chamber becomes trapped at the funnel tip until a tumbling event allows it to escape back into the top chamber , while a particle approaching the funnel barrier from below is shunted along the barrier wall into the top chamber . in the right inset",
    ", a particle with a very short run time spends very little time interacting with the wall , similar to a purely brownian particle , and is unable to sample the barrier asymmetry over a time scale long enough to bias its motion toward the upper chamber .",
    "the two ingredients that are required to produce a ratchet effect are the running of particles along the walls and the breaking of detailed balance by the motor force . in the same simulation study ,",
    "the rectification effect is reduced when a finite temperature is added since this increases the chance that a particle will prematurely move away from a wall .",
    "the ratchet effect is also reduced by the inclusion of steric particle - particle interactions , since particle collisions effectively reduce the running length while a buildup of particles in the funnel tip reduces the ability of the funnels to trap particles approaching from the upper chamber .     of the particle density in the upper chamber to that in the lower chamber for the system in fig .",
    "[ fig:3 ] at steady state vs run length @xmath38 , showing that for small run lengths @xmath66 indicating no rectification , while for large @xmath62 the ratio @xmath64 reaches a value of nearly @xmath65 .",
    "inset : schematic illustration of the rectification mechanism . on the left ,",
    "an individual particle approaching the funnel barrier from above becomes trapped at the funnel tip , while a particle approaching from below is shunted by the funnel wall into the upper chamber . on the right ,",
    "a brownian particle spends very little time in contact with the funnel walls .",
    "adapted from m. b. wan , c. j. olson reichhardt , z. nussinov , and c. reichhardt , phys .",
    "* 101 * , 018102 ( 2008 ) .",
    "copyright 2008 by the american physical society .",
    ", width=288 ]    figure  [ fig:5](a ) shows a snapshot from a simulation of run - and - tumble particles with steric particle - particle interactions moving between two chambers separated by funnel barriers .",
    "when the run length is sufficiently large @xcite , the inclusion of steric interactions produces two additional features : a build up of particles along the walls , and trapping of particles in the funnel tips . both of these effects were observed in the experiments of ref .",
    "one question is whether the accumulation of particles along the walls in the experiments is produced by hydrodynamic effects or whether it arises purely due to the self - propulsion of the bacteria . using numerical and analytical methods , tailleur and cates",
    "@xcite investigated run - and - tumble particles confined by a spherical trap and found that the dynamics alone produce particle accumulation on the walls .",
    "other studies of confined active matter where the motor force rotates diffusively also show a build up of particle density along the walls , and indicate that this effect is enhanced near corners @xcite .",
    "the tendency of active matter particles to accumulate in corners is one of the reasons the funnel barriers can produce a ratchet effect , as the increased trapping occurs on only one side of the funnels due to their curvature .",
    "the work in ref .",
    "@xcite also shows how the nature of the particle - wall interactions leads to rectification .",
    "rectification by the funnel geometry is robust against changes in the running length distribution , as is observable by comparing the results of wan _",
    "@xcite , who used only a single running length in each simulation , and of tailleur and cates @xcite , who considered a poisson distribution of running lengths .",
    "changes in the nature of the particle - wall interactions , however , can destroy the rectification .",
    "four possible interaction rules are shown schematically in fig .",
    "[ fig:5](b - e ) .",
    "under rule i , the motor force alignment is unchanged by contact with the wall and the particle moves according to the component of the motor force vector that is parallel to the wall . in rule ii , the motor force is realigned to be parallel with the wall upon contact . for rule iii , the particle is reflected by the wall , while in rule iv , the particle collides elastically with the wall . in ref .",
    "@xcite , when the motor force realigning rule ii is employed , efficient rectification of the particles occurs ; however , if the elastic collisions of rule iv are substituted , the rectification is lost , as shown in fig .  [ fig:5b ] .",
    "an examination of all four wall rules in ref .",
    "@xcite shows that the running of the particle along the wall , as in rules i and ii , is essential for producing a ratchet effect .",
    "when the particle does not remain in contact with the wall , as in rules iii and iv , the rectification is lost .    .",
    "( b - e ) different possible particle - wall interaction rules .",
    "( b ) rule i : the particle maintains its original running direction and moves along the wall with the component of its velocity that is parallel to the wall .",
    "( c ) rule ii : the particle realigns its running direction to be parallel with the wall .",
    "( d ) rule iii : the particle reflects from the wall .",
    "( e ) rule iv : the particle undergoes an elastic collision with the wall .",
    "ratchet effects occur for rules i and ii , with the strongest ratcheting for rule ii , but rules iii and iv produce no ratcheting . adapted from c.j .",
    "olson reichhardt , j. drocco , t. mai , m.b .",
    "wan , and c. reichhardt , proc .",
    "spie * 8097 * , 80970a ( 2011 ) .",
    ", width=288 ]     for the particle density in chambers separated by a line of funnel barriers for run - and - tumble particles that align their running direction with any wall they contact , showing increasing amounts of rectification for increasing particle running speed @xmath37 .",
    "the purple curve with @xmath67 is for the nonrectifying case where the particles collide elastically with the walls .",
    "reprinted with permission from j. tailleur and m. e. cates , europhys .",
    "86 * , 60002 ( 2009 ) .",
    ", width=288 ]    followup experiments by galajda _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite using self - propelled large scale swimming bathtub toys produced a rectification effect similar to that observed for the bacteria , while experiments by hulme _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite demonstrate how the ratchet effect can be used to fractionate motile _",
    "e. coli _ using arrays of asymmetric chambers of the type illustrated in fig .  [",
    "fig:6](a ) . the arrows in panels 1 to 5 of fig .",
    "[ fig:6](b ) show how bacteria moving in the positive @xmath12-direction are guided through the chamber array , while in panels 6 to 10 , bacteria moving in the negative @xmath12 direction are blocked by the chamber geometry .",
    "variations on similar channel geometries have also been shown to produce guided motion of bacteria @xcite .",
    "use similar microfabricated ratchet channels with asymmetry to concentrate _",
    "e. coli _ at particular locations @xcite .",
    "numerous other shapes can produce rectification of bacteria , such as the multiple rows of u - shaped funnel barriers illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:7](a ) that produce rectification of particles with a motor force that rotates diffusively @xcite . in fig .",
    "[ fig:7](b ) , a plot of the rectification ratio @xmath68 , given by the ratio of the density in the right chamber to that in the left chamber , versus the motor force @xmath69 for one , two , and three rows of barriers shows that @xmath68 increases linearly with @xmath69 , and that there is a strong enhancement of the ratchet effect with the addition of more layers of funnels . in the same study ,",
    "an examination of barriers made from open and closed triangles , u shapes , and half boxes indicates that barriers with an open shape always produce a larger rectification than barriers with closed shapes due to the trapping of particles within the tips of the open barriers .    ,",
    "equal to the ratio of the density in the right chamber to the density in the left chamber , vs motor force @xmath70 for samples containing one ( squares ) , two ( circles ) , and three ( triangles ) layers of funnel barriers .",
    "reproduced from y .- f .",
    "chen , s. xiao , h .- y .",
    "chen , y .- j .",
    "sheng , and h .- k .",
    "tsao , nanoscale * 7 * , 16451 ( 2015 ) , with permission of the royal society of chemistry .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c5nr04124d , width=288 ]",
    "theoretical and numerical studies show that rectification effects are a general phenomenon that occurs for self - driven particles in the presence of asymmetric piecewise periodic potentials @xcite .",
    "in other numerical studies , the directed transport that occurs for self - propelled particles interacting with arrays of nonsymmetric convex obstacles without cavities was shown to result from the fact that the particles tend to attach to solid surfaces @xcite .      in numerical studies of the motion of active particles with a diffusively rotating motor force through",
    "funnel arrays , i. berdakin _",
    "_ examined the effect of changing the swimming properties by varying the distribution of run lengths , the magnitude of the rotational diffusion , and the preservation of run orientation memory after a tumbling event @xcite .",
    "they observe that there are optimal swimming properties that maximize the rectification as a function of the geometry of the funnels .",
    "an illustration of the simulated funnel geometry appears in fig .",
    "[ fig:8](a ) along with colored dots indicating the position of three different _ e. coli _ mutants modeled on the basis of characterizations performed by berg and brown @xcite .",
    "red particles , or species s1 , represent chec497 with a mean run duration of @xmath71 seconds and a speed of 20 @xmath21 m/s ; blue particles , or species s3 , represent the wild type aw405 with a mean run duration of 0.86 seconds and a speed of 14.2 @xmath21 m/s ; and green particles , or species s4 , represent un602 which is the slowest with a mean run duration of 0.42 seconds and a speed of 14.2 @xmath21 m/s .",
    "the particles are initially placed along the leftmost wall , and after 12 minutes the red particles , which have the longest run time and the highest speed , have moved the furthest to the right , followed by the blue particles , which move less far to the right , and finally by the green particles , which have the least motion to the right .",
    "figure  [ fig:8](b ) shows the number of bacteria as a function of time in the leftmost chamber ( decreasing curves ) and rightmost chamber ( increasing curves ) , indicating that the different species become spatially separated over time . in follow - up studies ,",
    "the same group observed that the use of multiple arrays of funnels makes it possible to sort species that have only a small variation in a single swimming parameter @xcite .",
    "( b ) the number of bacteria vs time in the leftmost chamber ( solid symbols ) and the rightmost chamber ( open symbols ) , showing that the different bacteria species can be fractionated using the funnel arrays .",
    "reprinted with permission from i. berdakin , y. jeyaram , v. v. moshchalkov , l. venken , s. dierckx , s. j. vanderleyden , a. v. silhanek , c. a. condat , and v. i. marconi , phys .",
    "e * 87 * , 052702 ( 2013 ) .",
    "copyright 2013 by the american physical society .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=288 ]     +    ( b ) .",
    "( b ) the number of bacteria vs time in the leftmost chamber ( solid symbols ) and the rightmost chamber ( open symbols ) , showing that the different bacteria species can be fractionated using the funnel arrays .",
    "reprinted with permission from i. berdakin , y. jeyaram , v. v. moshchalkov , l. venken , s. dierckx , s. j. vanderleyden , a. v. silhanek , c. a. condat , and v. i. marconi , phys .",
    "e * 87 * , 052702 ( 2013 ) .",
    "copyright 2013 by the american physical society .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=288 ]      the motion of biological cells through funnel geometries has been explored in several experiments .",
    "@xcite considered swimming _",
    "chlamydomonas _ in both simulations and experiments using four chambers separated by funnel barriers , and measured the rectification ratio @xmath72 , where @xmath73 is the steady state number of cells in chamber @xmath74 and @xmath75 is the steady state number of cells in chamber @xmath76 . for funnels with a tip angle of 35@xmath77 , @xmath78 ,",
    "indicating strong rectification . in ref .",
    "@xcite , experiments on human sperm cells in quasi-2d microchambers containing funnel barriers show that rectification occurs when the cells become trapped in the funnel tips .",
    "the same study showed that since the sperm are attracted to the boundaries , the ratchet effect can be optimized by using u - shaped barriers .",
    "experiments with _ c. elegans _ moving through funnel barriers showed that the wild type , which moves along walls that it contacts , can be rectified by the barriers @xcite . in contrast , mutant strains that lack touch sensory neurons in their body reverse motion upon contacting a wall instead of following the wall , and these mutants are not rectified by the barriers .      a variety of other ratchet geometries for active particles have been studied , including 2d corrugated asymmetric substrates @xcite and 2d geometries where entropic effects are important @xcite .",
    "other works focus on the effect of changing the active particle shape to swimming ellipses @xcite , or on including an additional external drift force to the active particles to produce an active drift ratchet @xcite .",
    "proposed that ratchet effects can occur in a variety of plants where the asymmetry of the roots , seeds or leaves is important for transport in the natural world where fluctuations may be present @xcite .",
    "finally , in the case of symmetric substrates , it has been proposed that by periodically modulating the velocity of the active particles and then phase - shifting this velocity with respect to the substrate periodicity , enough symmetries are broken to permit a ratchet effect to occur @xcite .      in ratchets",
    "produced using funnel barriers , it would be interesting to examine additional modes of motion of the active particles such as particles that avoid walls , particles that reverse their motion if the density is too high , or particles that change swimming strategies as a function of local density or of time .",
    "many of the active matter ratchet studies performed so far employ infinitely repulsive barriers or walls ; however , many previous studies of nonactive matter ratchet effects produced by external driving were performed for substrates containing pinning sites with a finite strength , so that a particle experiencing a sufficiently large driving force can pass through the pinning potential or barrier .",
    "it would be interesting to examine active matter particles moving through asymmetric finite - strength pinning arrays rather than obstacle arrays . pinning arrays for colloidal particles",
    "can be readily created experimentally using optical means , so it should be possible to create optically generated pinning arrays for active colloidal particles or swimming bacteria .",
    "additionally , optical traps introduce the possibility of creating flashing substrates , which could significantly enhance active matter ratchet effects .",
    "it was recently proposed that by using a light intensity pattern with a funnel or chevron shape to manipulate a dense assembly of sterically interacting active particles that are attracted by light , the patterned regions would become filled with trapped active particles that would then serve as an asymmetric substrate that can produce ratcheting motion of the remaining untrapped active particles @xcite .",
    "there has also been work examining how asymmetry in the curvature of the walls can produce different pressures on each side of the wall , producing a ratchet effect @xcite .",
    "this suggests that curvature is another route to explore in producing different types of active ratchet devices .",
    "other possible systems to explore include crawling insects or animals .",
    "studies that reveal boundary following behaviors in animals @xcite suggest that asymmetry in the boundaries could be used to produce ratchet effects .",
    "another avenue of study is the introduction of feedback effects to a ratchet system , which could be achieved through optical methods .",
    "recent studies of active matter using feedback controls have produced a variety of behavior for very simple feedback rules @xcite .",
    "in rocking and flashing ratchet systems , a rich variety of collective effects including ratchet reversals arise when particle - particle interactions are included @xcite . for run - and - tumble active particles moving through funnel barriers ,",
    "_ observed that the addition of steric particle - particle interactions produced only a monotonic reduction in the rectification effect @xcite .",
    "@xcite placed particles obeying a vicsek model , modified to include particle - barrier interactions and steric particle - particle interactions with an exclusion radius @xmath79 , in a funnel barrier geometry . for small @xmath80 , the particles ratchet in the easy flow direction , and the magnitude of the ratchet effect depends on the noise term @xmath5 in the vicsek model . for small @xmath5 the system forms flocks , while for large @xmath5",
    "the system is in a liquidlike state . in the funnel barrier system ,",
    "the ratchet effect is strongly reduced or completely lost for large @xmath5 , while for small @xmath5 where flocking occurs , a pronounced ratchet effect appears with density ratios in the two chambers approaching @xmath65 .",
    "figure  [ fig:9](b , c ) highlights the enhancement of the ratchet effect due to the collective rectification of groups of active particles . in fig .",
    "[ fig:9](b ) , a flock approaches the funnel barriers from below .",
    "the flock becomes compressed and moves through the barrier array as a unit , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:9](c ) .",
    "a reversal of the ratchet effect , in which the particles collect in the bottom chamber in the hard flow direction of the funnel barriers , can occur when flocks are present .",
    "figure  [ fig:9](a ) shows a plot of the particle density in the top chamber @xmath81 versus the particle exclusion radius @xmath79 for a system in which @xmath82 , the flocking radius is 1.0 , the starting uniform density is @xmath83 , and the closest spacing between adjacent funnel barriers is @xmath84 . for @xmath85",
    ", rectification occurs in the easy flow direction of the funnel barriers as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:9](b , c ) , but there is a reversal of the rectification into the hard flow direction for @xmath86 . for @xmath87 , the diameter of the particles is larger than the closest spacing between funnels , @xmath88 , so it is no longer possible for particles to pass between the upper and lower chambers , and the rectification effect is lost .",
    "the ratchet reversal is produced by a jamming effect that occurs during the compression of a flock of particles as it approaches the opening between adjacent funnel barriers from below .",
    "the compression causes the particles at the leading edge of the flock to form a rigid close - packed structure that is wider than the interfunnel spacing @xmath89 , and makes it impossible for the flock to cross the line of funnel barriers .",
    "in contrast , when a flock approaches the funnel barriers from above , the barriers cleave the flock into smaller clusters , and during this process one or two particles can escape from the flock and pass between the funnel barriers to enter the lower chamber",
    ". this reversed motion process always occurs but can not compete with the forward motion of flocks of particles moving into the top chamber for small @xmath79 .",
    "when the forward motion is inhibited by jamming at larger @xmath79 , the reversed motion dominates and a reversed ratchet effect appears .",
    "the reverse ratchet effect operates much more slowly than the forward ratchet , so a much longer time is required for the system to reach a steady state in the reverse ratchet regime than in the forward ratchet regime . if two species of particles with different exclusion radii of @xmath90 ( small ) and @xmath91 ( large ) are placed in the container , flocks of the different species ratchet in opposite directions and can be spatially separated , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:10 ] .     of particles in the upper chamber vs the particle exclusion radius @xmath79 .",
    "the dashed line indicates the uniform starting density with @xmath92 . the ratchet effect in the easy flow direction",
    "is maximized for small @xmath79 .",
    "a reversal in the ratchet direction occurs for @xmath93 , and the ratchet effect is lost for @xmath94 when the particles become too large to fit between adjacent funnels .",
    "( b , c ) images of a small portion of the sample illustrating the forward rectification mechanism .",
    "( b ) a flock approaches the funnel barriers from below .",
    "( c ) the flock elongates and passes through the barrier array as a unit .",
    "adapted from j.a .",
    "drocco , c.j .",
    "olson reichhardt , and c. reichhardt , phys .",
    "e * 85 * , 056102 ( 2012 ) .",
    "copyright 2012 by the american physical society . , title=\"fig:\",width=288 ]   of particles in the upper chamber vs the particle exclusion radius @xmath79 .",
    "the dashed line indicates the uniform starting density with @xmath92 .",
    "the ratchet effect in the easy flow direction is maximized for small @xmath79 .",
    "a reversal in the ratchet direction occurs for @xmath93 , and the ratchet effect is lost for @xmath94 when the particles become too large to fit between adjacent funnels .",
    "( b , c ) images of a small portion of the sample illustrating the forward rectification mechanism .",
    "( b ) a flock approaches the funnel barriers from below .",
    "( c ) the flock elongates and passes through the barrier array as a unit . adapted from j.a .",
    "drocco , c.j .",
    "olson reichhardt , and c. reichhardt , phys .",
    "e * 85 * , 056102 ( 2012 ) .",
    "copyright 2012 by the american physical society .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",width=288 ]     ( small , blue ) and @xmath95 ( large , red ) . ( a ) the initial configuration with uniform density in both top and bottom chambers , which are separated by a line of funnel barriers .",
    "( b ) a representative steady state configuration at later time .",
    "the larger red particles undergo reversed rectification and collect in the bottom chamber , while the smaller blue particles undergo forward rectification and collect in the top chamber .",
    ", width=192 ]     ( small , blue ) and @xmath95 ( large , red ) .",
    "( a ) the initial configuration with uniform density in both top and bottom chambers , which are separated by a line of funnel barriers .",
    "( b ) a representative steady state configuration at later time .",
    "the larger red particles undergo reversed rectification and collect in the bottom chamber , while the smaller blue particles undergo forward rectification and collect in the top chamber .",
    ", width=192 ]    ratchet reversals have also been observed for eukaryotic cells moving on asymmetric substrates .",
    "@xcite examined cell motility on micropatterned ratchet surfaces .",
    "they considered cancerous b16f1 cells , which are a mouse epithelial - like melanoma cell , non - cancerous rat2 fibroblast cells , and cancerous mda - mb-231 human mammary gland cells .",
    "for the b16f1 and rat2 cells , directed motion occurs along the easy flow direction of the funnel array .",
    "the addition of a protruding spike shape to the funnel shaped chambers does not affect the rat2 cells , which still ratchet in the easy direction , but causes the b16f1 and mda - mb-231 cells to perform a reversed ratchet motion in the hard flow direction .",
    "the differences in the direction of the ratchet motion for the different cells were attributed to the different crawling mechanisms of the cells .",
    "rat2 cells use long protrusions that can grab the funnel edges or the ends of the spike shapes , while the other cells prefer to spread out in the open spaces as they move .",
    "et al . _ also found that it is possible to use arrays of the spike shaped funnels to separate a mixture of different cells over time , and they propose the creation of a bidirectional ratchet , opening the possibility of creating cell traps and ratchets to achieve various types of medical treatments .",
    "other studies have shown that unidirectional cell motion can be achieved using asymmetric nanotopography @xcite .",
    "self - propelled janus colloids , whose direction of motion slowly diffuses rotationally , represent another type of experimental artificial active matter system .",
    "@xcite performed simulations of active janus particles in an asymmetric channel , and observed that rectification occurs in the easy flow direction of the channel and that the magnitude of the ratchet effect increases with increasing correlation time of the particle running direction , eventually saturating for large correlation times .",
    "they also considered a mixture of @xmath96 active particles and @xmath97 non - active particles in the same geometry , with the particle - particle interactions modeled as a repulsive harmonic force , and found that the active particles can induce a net rectification of the non - active particles .",
    "a particularly interesting effect is that the rectification efficiency for the non - active particles is non - monotonic as a function of particle density . for one choice of parameters ,",
    "the maximum non - active particle ratchet efficiency occurs for a ratio of @xmath98 , indicating that even a very small fraction of active particles can efficiently rectify the passive particles . in the dense limit of @xmath99 close to the jamming regime ,",
    "ghosh _ et al .",
    "_ find a small reversal of the ratchet effect .    in experiments with passive colloids immersed in a bath of swimming bacteria , koumakis",
    "_ et al . _ showed that introducing an asymmetric substrate that causes the bacteria to undergo rectification also produces transport of the passive colloids into or out of enclosed regions @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig:11](a ) shows the time evolution of the number of passive colloids in each chamber of a sample containing three layers of ratchets for a geometry that concentrates the colloids in the central chamber , while fig .",
    "[ fig:11](b ) shows the same quantity for a geometry that ejects the colloids from the box .",
    "et al . _ also found that curved ratchet geometries were not as efficient as flat boundaries in their device since the colloids would follow curved trajectories over the curved surfaces .",
    "these results show how collective effects in active ratchets could be used to achieve a variety of active pumping techniques",
    ". it may also be possible that biological systems such as cells already take advantage of such collective ratchet effects .",
    "the field of collective effects in active matter systems is wide open .",
    "since a wide variety of flocking models exist , it would be interesting to determine what types of ratchet effects occur for different flocking rules .",
    "this would also be an interesting question to examine in experiments on schools of fish or swarming insects which could be placed in funnel like channels , with a comparison between ratchet behaviors for schooling and non - schooling systems .",
    "similar experiments could be performed with herding animals .",
    "it would also be interesting to explore systems with competing effects , such as a ratchet geometry that biases the motion of the system in one direction combined with some other competing force that biases the motion of the system in the opposite direction .",
    "in such a case , flocking or collective effects could be turned on or off to take advantage of or nullify the ratchet effect .",
    "there has already been some evidence for competing interactions that can overwhelm the ratchet effect , such as an experiment on bacteria in a funnel barrier ratchet geometry , where the bacteria form fisher wave swarms that move against the ratchet direction @xcite .",
    "self - driven colloids have been shown to exhibit a phase separation transition into gaslike and clustered solidlike phases for high enough density or activity @xcite , so it would be interesting to examine how the ratchet efficiency is affected by the onset of self - clustering .",
    "introduction of a substrate can modify the density or activity at which the self - clustering begins to occur , as well as the mean distance that individual particles can move @xcite .",
    "collective ratchet effects should also depend strongly on the type of interactions between the particles . in the systems",
    "studied so far , short - range steric repulsion has been used for the particle - particle interactions ; however , it is also possible to consider active particles with lennard - jones interactions , long - range repulsive interactions , competing long - range repulsion and short - range attraction , or many body interactions .",
    "another class of system is active membranes or sheets that could mimic cells or collections of tightly bound organisms .",
    "swimming deformable droplets are one example of an extended active object of this type @xcite , and if such droplets were placed on an asymmetric surface , ratchet effects could occur . in this case , varying the substrate periodicity to be larger or smaller than the size scale of the active object could cause changes in the ratchet effect .",
    "there has already been a study demonstrating ratchet effects for active polymers in funnel barrier arrays @xcite .",
    "other motion rules could also be introduced to model objects that have mechanics similar to cells , such as protrusions that push or pull to mimic the experiments in ref .",
    "there could also be ratchet effects for extended active objects that can expand or contract , such as a squirmer model or a system with inertial dynamics .",
    "collective ratchet effects can also be examined for groups of interacting rods coupled by molecular motors when an additional asymmetry is introduced , or active gel systems such as active nematics @xcite could be studied in the presence of an asymmetric substrate .",
    "active nematics can also exhibit mobile defects @xcite , so it may be possible to produce ratcheting motion of the defects .",
    "there are many examples of active biological and artificial systems that exhibit a chirality in their motion , such as biological circle swimmers @xcite and artificial circle swimmers @xcite . in this case",
    ", ratchet effects can occur even in the absence of a substrate asymmetry since the chirality of the swimming introduces an asymmetry to the system .",
    "one of the first examples of a ratchet effect produced by chirality was observed for circularly moving particles on a 2d periodic substrate @xcite . as the substrate - free particle orbits are varied from circular to more complex lissajous patterns ,",
    "a series of transitions occurs between localized closed trajectories with no net translation to open trajectories that permit the particles to translate in a particular direction , producing a ratchet effect .",
    "additional simulations have shown that directed motion can be achieved for circularly moving particles on periodic substrates , where various types of translating trajectories appear @xcite , while in experiments with circularly moving colloids on 2d substrates , directed or ratchet motion can be produced @xcite .",
    "@xcite considered a model of counterclockwise circle swimmers on a 2d periodic substrate for both deterministic and stochastic swimmers . in the deterministic regime",
    "they found that the particles can either form closed orbits or translate at fixed angles with respect to the substrate periodicity . in the stochastic regime",
    ", the ratchet effect extends over a wider range of parameters since the particles can hop between different rectifying orbits even if they become temporarily trapped in a closed or nonrectifying orbit .",
    "it is also possible to obtain ratchet effects for circle swimmers moving over asymmetric substrates @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig:12](a ) shows a counterclockwise swimming particle moving with a motor force amplitude of @xmath100 over an array of l - shaped barriers .",
    "the particle translates one substrate lattice constant in the positive @xmath20 direction during every swimming cycle . for @xmath101 in fig .",
    "[ fig:12](b ) , the particle is confined to a closed non - translating orbit . in fig .",
    "[ fig:12](c ) , the translating orbit at @xmath102 includes particle motion in both the positive @xmath12 and positive @xmath20 directions . figure  [ fig:12](d ) shows that at @xmath103 the particle translates in the negative @xmath12-direction .",
    "the average drift velocity of the particle in the @xmath20 direction , @xmath104 , and in the @xmath12 direction , @xmath105 , is plotted as a function of @xmath23 in fig .",
    ". a series of quantized orbits occur in which the particle translates in a fixed direction over a finite interval of @xmath23 . due to the asymmetry of the l - shaped barriers , the locations of the translating or ratcheting regimes differ for clockwise and counterclockwise swimming particles ; however , in general , swimmers with different chirality move in different directions , permitting a mixture of chiral swimmers to be separated by the barrier array .",
    "when thermal effects are included , the additional noise expands the range of values of @xmath23 over which rectification occurs ; however , the efficiency of the maximum ratchet effect is reduced compared to the nonthermal or deterministic limit .",
    ", translation occurs in the positive @xmath20 direction .",
    "( b ) for @xmath106 a non - ratcheting orbit appears .",
    "( c ) at @xmath107 the particle translates in the positive @xmath12 and @xmath20-directions .",
    "( d ) at @xmath103 the particle translates in the negative @xmath12-direction . adapted from c. reichhardt and c. j. olson reichhardt , phys .",
    "e * 88 * , 042306 ( 2013 ) .",
    "copyright 2013 by the american physical society .",
    ", width=288 ]     showing a series of ratchet orbits as a function of the motor force amplitude @xmath23 .",
    "( a ) @xmath108 vs @xmath23 .",
    "( b ) @xmath109 vs @xmath23 .",
    "if the particle swimming direction is reversed from counterclockwise to clockwise , a different set of rectification phases occurs due to the asymmetry of the l - shaped barriers .",
    "reprinted with permission from c. reichhardt and c. j. olson reichhardt , phys .",
    "e * 88 * , 042306 ( 2013 ) .",
    "copyright 2013 by the american physical society .",
    ", width=288 ]    mijalkov and volpe @xcite considered the separation of different species of circle swimmers with different angular velocities by an asymmetric comb channel with a geometry that could be nanofabricated , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig:14](a ) .",
    "the particles are initially placed in the leftmost chamber , and as time progresses , the particles moving at 2.2 rad / s undergo the largest amount of ratcheting motion along the channel , as shown by the histograms of particle density at different times in fig .",
    "[ fig:14](b - e ) .",
    "at the longest times of @xmath110s in fig .",
    "[ fig:14](e ) the spatial separation of the different particle species is clearly visible .",
    "( black ) , 2.8 ( yellow ) , 2.5 ( blue ) , and @xmath111 ( red ) rad / sec .",
    "( b , c , d , e ) histograms of the particle positions for increasing times .",
    "the particles rotating at 2.2 rad / s exhibit the largest amount of rectification . reproduced from m. mijalkov and g. volpe , soft matter * 9",
    "* , 6376 ( 2013 ) , with permission of the royal society of chemistry . , width=288 ]    ai _ et al . _",
    "@xcite considered chiral swimmers interacting with an array of half - circle barriers and found that particles with different chirality migrate to opposite sides of the sample due to interactions with the barriers . in a numerical study of chiral swimmers in a geometry containing m - shaped barriers on the bottom of the sample at @xmath112 and periodic boundary conditions in the @xmath12 direction",
    ", the chirality of the swimmers leads to a rectification effect and makes it possible to achieve the transport of a larger passive particle @xcite . the direction",
    "in which the active particles ratchet depends on the chirality of the swimming , so that counterclockwise and clockwise swimmers move in opposite directions .",
    "one of the surprising results of this work is that the direction in which the passive particle drifts can , for some parameters , be opposite to the direction in which the swimmers are moving , and this directional reversal depends strongly on the packing fraction of the system , which again indicates that collective effects can introduce new behaviors .",
    "ratchet effects are generally studied in systems with fixed asymmetric substrates ; however , if the substrate is mobile and can respond to the active particle , an active ratchet effect can occur that can be used to transport larger - scale asymmetric objects .",
    "@xcite examined a model of run - and - tumble bacteria interacting with large scale passive rotary objects that have asymmetric saw - tooth shapes .",
    "the bacteria accumulate in the corners of the sawteeth and generate a net torque that produces a persistent rotation of the object in one direction .",
    "such active matter - induced gear rotation was subsequently confirmed in several experiments with swimming bacteria @xcite as well as for gears interacting with small robots @xcite .",
    "additionally , if an asymmetric object is placed in a bath of active particles , it is possible to generate enhanced transport of the object .",
    "figure  [ fig:15](a , b ) shows images of asymmetric objects placed in a bath of rod - like bacteria to create microshuttles @xcite .",
    "the bacteria , which swim in the direction of their white tips , accumulate in the corners of each shuttle object and produce a net force @xmath113 that causes the shuttle to translate .",
    "figure  [ fig:15](c ) shows that the probability distribution of @xmath113 shifts its weight to higher values of @xmath113 as the shuttle length is increased , producing a larger biasing propulsion force .",
    "of the time - averaged force @xmath113 exerted on the shuttle by the active particles for shuttles made from 1 ( black ) , 2 ( red ) , 3 ( green ) , or 4 ( blue ) wedges , showing an increase in the effective driving force as the number of wedges increases .",
    "reprinted with permission from l. angelani and r. di leonardo , new j. phys .",
    "* 12 * , 113017 ( 2010 ) .",
    "iop publishing & deutsche physikalishe gesellschaft . cc by - nc - sa .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1367-2630/12/11/113017 , width=288 ]     +    ( a)(b )     +    \\(c )   of the time - averaged force @xmath113 exerted on the shuttle by the active particles for shuttles made from 1 ( black ) , 2 ( red ) , 3 ( green ) , or 4 ( blue ) wedges , showing an increase in the effective driving force as the number of wedges increases .",
    "reprinted with permission from l. angelani and r. di leonardo , new j. phys .",
    "* 12 * , 113017 ( 2010 ) .",
    "iop publishing & deutsche physikalishe gesellschaft . cc by - nc - sa .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1367-2630/12/11/113017 , title=\"fig:\",width=288 ]    experiments on asymmetric wedges in bacterial baths",
    "reveal enhanced transport of these objects @xcite , and other studies have examined how the shape of the asymmetric passive object affects the transport of the object @xcite . since active particles accumulate in corners or concave regions of a funnel shape , it is possible to use static @xcite or moving wedges @xcite to capture active particles .",
    "many additional variants of using active matter to transport passive objects are possible",
    ". it would also be interesting to study systems in which the passive objects could change shape in response to the activity .",
    "we have highlighted the recent results for a new class of ratchet system called active ratchets , which appear when the directed motion of self - propelled particles , which breaks detailed balance , is combined with an additional asymmetry in the system . unlike rocking and flashing ratchets , active ratchets",
    "do not require the application of an external driving force to produce rectification .",
    "active ratchet effects and variations upon them will be a growing field of research as the ability to fabricate additional types of artificial swimmers , nanobots , and other self - driven systems continues to improve , along with the possibility of applying simple motion rules to the active objects that can permit them to perform usable work . due to the general nature of the conditions under which active ratcheting can occur ,",
    "it is likely that nature may already be exploiting active ratchet effects in various biological systems , so it would be interesting to examine motility process in complex biological environments to understand whether active ratchet effects are present .",
    "another area for future research is the collective effects that arise in assemblies of interacting active particles or in more complex objects such as cells .",
    "it has already been demonstrated that collective effects can produce a variety of novel ratcheting effects including ratchet reversals , which offers the possibility to utilize bidirectional ratchets for various medical technologies and other types of biological applications .",
    "the authors are not aware of any affiliations , memberships , funding , or financial holdings that might be perceived as affecting the objectivity of this review .",
    "this work was carried out under the auspices of the nnsa of the u.s .",
    "doe at lanl under contract no .",
    "de - ac52 - 06na25396",
    ".    99 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o.",
    "arxiv:1602.03798 ( unpublished ) reimann p. 2002 .",
    "_ 361:57265 derenyi i , vicsek t. 1995 . _",
    "_ 75:374377 de souza silva c c , van de vondel j , morelle m , moshchalkov v v. 2006 .",
    "_ nature ( london ) _",
    "440:651654 lu q , reichhardt c j o , reichhardt c. 2007 .",
    "75:054502 lee c s , jank ' o b , der ' enyi i , barab ' asi a l. 1999 .",
    "_ nature ( london ) _",
    "400:337340 galajda p , keymer j , chaikin p , austin r. 2007 .",
    "_ j. bacteriol .",
    "_ 189:87048707 reichhardt c , ray d , reichhardt c j o. 2015 .",
    "b _ 91:184502 van oudenaarden a , boxer s g. 1999 . _ science",
    "_ 285:10461048 ertas d. 1998 .",
    "_ 80:15481551 duke t a j , austin r h. 1998 .",
    "_ 80:15521555 reichhardt c j o , reichhardt c. 2005 .",
    "_ physica c _ 432:125132 dinis l , perez de lara d , gonzalez e m , anguita j v , parrondo j m r , vicent j l. 2009 .",
    "_ new j. phys .",
    "_ 11:073046 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o. 2016 .",
    "_ phys . rev .",
    "93:064508 lindner b , schimansky - geier l , reimann p , h \" anggi p , nagaoka m. 1999 . _ phys .",
    "59:14171424 reichhardt c , ray d , reichhardt c j o. 2015 .",
    "_ new j. phys . _ 17:070304 rousselet j , salome l , ajdari a , prost j. 1994 .",
    "_ nature ( london ) _ 370:446448    farkas z , tegzes p , vukics a , vicsek t. 1999 . _",
    "60:70227031 wambaugh j f , reichhardt c , olson c j. 2002 .",
    "65:031308 jones p h , goonasekera m , renzoni f. 2004 .",
    "_ 93:073904 salger t , kling s , hecking t , geckeler c , morales - molina l , weitz m. 2009 . _ science _",
    "326:12411243 linke h , humphrey t e , l \" ofgren a , sushkov a o , newbury r , taylor r p , omling p. 1999 .",
    "_ science _",
    "286:23142317 roeling e m , germs w c , smalbrugge b , geluk e j , de vries t , janssen r a j , kemerink m. 2011 . _ nature mater . _ 10:5155 p ' erez - junquera a , marconi v i , kolton a b , ' alvarez - prado l m , souche y , alija a , v ' elez m , anguita j v , alameda j m , mart ' in j i , parrondo j m r. 2008 .",
    "_ 100:037203 franken j h , swagten h j m , koopmans b. 2012 . _",
    "nature nanotechnol .",
    "_ 7:499503    chat e h , ginelli f , gr ' egoire g , peruani f , raynaud f. 2008 .",
    "64:451456 ramaswamy s. 2010 .",
    "rev . condens .",
    "matter phys .",
    "1:323345 marchetti m c , joanny j f , ramaswamy s , liverpool t b , prost j , rao m , simha r a. 2013 .",
    "_ 85:11431189 bechinger c , di leonardo r , l \" owen h , reichhardt c , volpe g , volpe g. arxiv:1602.00081 ( unpublished ) .",
    "cates m e , marenduzzo d , pagonabarraga i , tailleur j. 2010 .",
    "107:1171511720 fily y , marchetti m c. 2012 .",
    "_ 108:235702 redner g s , hagan m f , baskaran a. 2013 .",
    "_ 110:055701 palacci j , sacanna s , steinberg a p , pine d j , chaikin p m. 2013 . _",
    "buttinoni i , bialk ' e j , k \" ummel f , l \" owen h , bechinger c , speck t. 2013 .",
    "110:238301 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o. 2014 .",
    "_ soft matter _ 10:75027510 wan m b , reichhardt c j o , nussinov z , reichhardt c. 2008 .",
    "_ 101:018102 reichhardt c j o , drocco j , mai t , wan m b , reichhardt c. 2011 .",
    "8097:80970a tailleur j , cates m e. 2009 .",
    "_ europhys .",
    "_ 86:60002 fily y , baskaran a , hagan m f. 2014 .",
    "_ soft matter _",
    "10:56095617 fily y , baskaran a , hagan m f. 2015 .",
    "91:012125 berdakin i , jeyaram y , moshchalkov v v , venken l , dierckx s , vanderleyden s j , silhanek a v , condat c a , marconi v i. 2013 .",
    "87:052702 galajda p , keymer j , dalland j , park s , kou s , austin r. 2008 .",
    "55:34133422 hulme e , diluzio w r , shevkoplyas s s , turner l , mayer m , berg h c , whitesides g m. 2008 .",
    "_ lab chip _ 8:188895 kaehr b , shear j b. 2009 . _ lab chip _",
    "9:26322637 kim s y , lee e s , lee h j , lee s y , lee s k , kim t. 2010 .",
    "_ j. micromech .",
    "_ 20:085007 chen y - f , xiao s , chen h - y , sheng y - j , tsao h - k .",
    "_ nanoscale _",
    "7:1645116459 angelani l , costanzo a , di leonardo r. 2011 .",
    "_ epl _ 96:68002 yariv e , schnitzer o. 2014 .",
    "90:032115 potiguar f q",
    ", farias g a , ferreira w p. 2014 . _ phys .",
    "90:012307 berg h c , brown d a. 1972 . _",
    "239:500504 berdakin i , silhanek a v , cort ' ez h n m , marconi v i , condat c a. 2013 .",
    "_ central eur .",
    "_ 11:16531661 kantsler v , dunkel j , polin m , goldstein r e. 2013 .",
    "110:11871192 guidobaldi a , jeyaram y , berdakin i , moshchalkov v v , condat c a , marconi v i , giojalas l , silhanek a v. 2014 . _",
    "89:032720 nam s - w , qian c , kim s h , van noort d , chiam k - h , park s. 2013 . _",
    "_ 3:3247 ai b - q , chen q - y , he y - f , li f - g , zhong w - r .",
    "88:062129 wu j c , chen q , wang r , ai b q. 2014 .",
    "_ j. phys .",
    "a : math . theor .",
    "_ 47:325001 ai b - q , wu j - c . 2014 .",
    "_ j. chem .",
    "_ 140:094103 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o. 2013 . _ phys .",
    "88:062310 kulic i m , mani m , mohrbach h , thaokar r , mahadevan l. 2009 .",
    "b _ 276:22432247 pototsky a , hahn a m , stark h. 2013 .",
    "87:042124 stenhammar j , wittkowski r , marenduzzo d , cates m e. arxiv:1507.01836 ( unpublished ) nikola n , solon a p , kafri y , kardar m , tailleur j , voituriez r. arxiv:1512.05697 ( unpublished ) weitz s , blanco s , fournier r , gautrais j , jost c , theraulaz g. 2014 . _ phys .",
    "89:052715 wu j - c , chen q , wang r , ai b - q . 2015 .",
    "_ physica a _",
    "428:273278 mijalkov m , mcdaniel a , wehr j , volpe g. 2016 .",
    "x _ 6:011008 drocco j a , reichhardt c j o , reichhardt c. 2012 . _",
    "85:056102 mahmud g , campbell c j , bishop k j m , komarova y a , chaga o , soh s , huda s , kandere - grzyboswka k , grzybowski b a. 2009 .",
    "_ nature phys .",
    "_ 5:606612 sun x , driscoll m k , guven c , das s , parent c a , fourkas j t , losert w. 2015 . _ proc .",
    "112:1255712562 ghosh p k , misko v r , marchesoni f , nori f. 2013 .",
    "110:268301 koumakis n , lepore a , maggi c , di leonardo r. 2013 . _ nature commun . _",
    "4:2588 lambert g , liao d , austin r h. 2010 .",
    "_ 104:168102 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o. 2014 .",
    "e _ 90 : 012701 maass c c , kr \" uger c , herminghaus s , bahr c. 2016 _ annu . rev .",
    "matter phys .",
    "_ 7:171193 wan m - b , jho y - s .",
    "_ soft matter _",
    "9:32553261 narayan v , ramaswamy s , menon n. 2007 .",
    "_ science _",
    "317:105108 sanchez t , chen d t n , decamp s j , heymann m , dogic z. 2012 . _",
    "491:431434 giomi l , bowick m j , ma x , marchetti m c. 2013 .",
    "_ 110:228101 decamp s j , redner g s , baskaran a , hagan m f , dogic z. 2015 .",
    "_ nature mater .",
    "_ 14:11101115 diluzio w r , turner l , mayer m , garstecki p , weibel d b , berg h c , whitesides g m. 2005 .",
    "435:12711274 riedel i h , kruse k , howard j. 2005 .",
    "_ science _",
    "li g , tam l - k , tang j x. 2008 .",
    "105:1835518359 tierno p , johansen t h , fischer t m. 2007 .",
    "_ 99:038303 k \" ummel f , ten hagen b , wittkowski r , buttinoni i , eichhorn r , volpe g , l \" owen h , bechinger c. 2013 .",
    "_ 110:198302 ten hagen b , k \" ummel f , wittkowski r , takagi d , l \" owen h , bechinger c. 2014 .",
    "_ nature commun .",
    "5:4829 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o. 2003 .",
    "68:046102 speer d , eichhorn r , reimann p. 2009 .",
    "_ 102:124101 tierno p , johansen t h , fischer t m. 2007 .",
    "_ 99:038303 nourhani a , crespi v h , lammert p e. 2015 . _",
    "_ 115:118101 reichhardt c , reichhardt c j o. 2013 . _ phys .",
    "88:042306 mijalkov m , volpe g. 2013 .",
    "_ soft matter _",
    "9:63766381 ai b , he y , zhong w. 2015 . _",
    "soft matter _",
    "11:38523859 ai b. 2016 . _",
    "_ 6:18740 angelani",
    "l , di leonardo r , ruocco g. 2009 .",
    "_ 102:048104 di leonardo r , angelani l , dellarciprete d , ruocco g , iebba v , schlippa s , conte m p , mecarini f , de angelis f , di fabrizio e. 2010 .",
    "107:95419545 sokolov a , apodaca m m , grzyboswki b a , aranson i s. 2010 .",
    "107:969974 kojima m , miyamoto t , nakajima m , homma m , arai t , fukuda t. 2016 .",
    "_ sensors actuators b",
    "_ 222:12201225 li h , zhang h p. 2013 .",
    "102:50007 angelani l , di leonardo r. 2010 .",
    "_ new j. phys . _ 12:113017 kaiser a , peshkov a , sokolov a , ten hagen b , l \" owen h , aranson i s. 2014 .",
    "_ 112:158101 mallory s a , valeriani c , cacciuto a. 2014 .",
    "90:032309 kaiser a , wensink h h , l \" owen h. 2012 . _ phys . rev",
    "_ 108:268307 kaiser a , popowa k , wensink h h , l \" owen h. 2013 . _ phys . rev ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> ratchet effects can arise for single or collectively interacting brownian particles on an asymmetric substrate when a net dc transport is produced by an externally applied ac driving force or by periodically flashing the substrate . </S>",
    "<S> recently , a new class of active ratchet systems has been realized through the use of active matter , which are self - propelled units that can be biological or non - biological in nature . </S>",
    "<S> when active materials such as swimming bacteria interact with an asymmetric substrate , a net dc directed motion can arise even without external driving , opening a wealth of possibilities such as sorting , cargo transport , or micromachine construction . </S>",
    "<S> we review the current status of active matter ratchets for swimming bacteria , cells , active colloids , and swarming models , focusing on the role of particle - substrate interactions . </S>",
    "<S> we describe ratchet reversals produced by collective effects and the use of active ratchets to transport passive particles . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss future directions including deformable substrates or particles , the role of different swimming modes , varied particle - particle interactions , and non - dissipative effects .    </S>",
    "<S> ratchet , active matter , nonequilibrium transport , flocking </S>"
  ]
}