{
  "article_text": [
    "motivated by seminal studies which reported on the exfoliation of a single stable layer of graphene and presented transport measurements that revealed its dirac fermion fingerprint,@xcite research on ultrathin two dimensional ( 2d ) materials has emerged during the last decade as one of the most active research topics in condensed matter physics .",
    "two - dimensional materials are interesting in part because their properties can be modified _ in situ _ by adjusting gate voltages .",
    "recently , interest has expanded beyond graphene to other layered van der waals materials that offer alternative properties which are potentially useful for applications .",
    "@xcite for example , one popular class of 2d materials is the transition metal dichalcogenides ( tmdc ) @xcite which include semiconductors and metals , exhibit strong light - matter coupling,@xcite and sometimes host ordered electronic states including charge density waves and superconductivity.@xcite magnetic order has , however , not yet been established in any two - dimensional material .",
    "room - temperature magnetism in a single - layer material is an extremely attractive materials target because of the expectation that it would provide unprecedented electrical control of magnetic configurations and enable new classes of information processing devices that incorporate non - volatile memory elements more intimately .",
    "two dimensional magnetism is a very broad and fundamentally interesting topic in the theory of quantum matter.@xcite one strategy to search for magnetism in isolated two - dimensional van der waals materials is to explore the magnetic properties of single - layers exfoliated from a bulk material that exhibits robust magnetic order . following this approach ,",
    "recent theoretical studies have proposed a number of potentially magnetic single - layer van der waals materials , including v based dichalcogenides@xcite , febr@xmath0 , chromium based crsite@xmath0 and crgete@xmath0 ternary tritellurides @xcite , crx@xmath0 trihalides@xcite , and mnpx@xmath0 ternary chalcogenides @xcite .",
    "the family of mpx@xmath0 compounds , also known as transition metal phosphorous trichalcogenides , are known to exhibit magnetism for m = mn and for a number of other metal atom species .",
    "the structures and magnetic properties of some bulk compounds have already been extensively studied.@xcite because of the van der waals character of these materials , one focus of bulk materials research is to characterize ion intercalation properties.@xcite    in this paper we present an _ ab initio _ study of the mpx@xmath0 metal - phosphorous - trichalcogenide family of single - layer materials .",
    "we consider a broad range of 3d transition metals ( m= v , cr , mn , fe , co , ni , cu , zn ) and chalcogen atoms ( x = s , se , te ) in an effort to explore the magnetic phases that can be expected as fully as possible .",
    "we explore how quasiparticle bands are modified when the magnetic configurations undergoes a transition from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic , or from magnetic to non - magnetic .",
    "our results confirm the expected strong interdependence between magnetic configuration and structural properties , for example lattice constant or crystal symmetry , and explain a surprisingly strong dependence of exchange interaction strengths on electron density and strain .",
    "the paper is structured in the following manner .",
    "we start in sec .",
    "[ sec : methods ] by briefly summarizing specific details of our first principles electronic structure calculation details . in sec .",
    "[ sec : groundstate ] we discuss our results for ground - state properties including structure , magnetic properties , and electronic band structure and density of states .",
    "[ sec : tunability ] is devoted to an analysis of the carrier - density dependence of the magnetic ground state , and to a study of the influence of strain on the magnetic phase diagram .",
    "finally we close the paper in sec.[sec : summary ] with a summary and discussion of our results .",
    "the study of the ground - state electronic structure and magnetic properties in this work has been carried out using plane - wave density functional theory as implemented in quantum espresso .  @xcite we have used the rappe - rabe - kaxiras - joannopoulos ultrasoft ( rrkjus ) pseudoptentials for the semi - local perdew - burke - ernzerhof ( pbe ) generalized gradient approximation ( gga )  @xcite together with the vdw - d2 correction  @xcite .",
    "we choose the gga+d2 as a reference calculation because of the overall improvement of the gga over the lda  @xcite for covalent bond description , and add the longer ranged d2 correction to improve the description of binding between the layers .",
    "( the gga typically performs poorly for van der waals bonds .",
    "@xcite ) the magnetic solutions have also been compared with calculations employing the lda+u scheme , using values for the onsite repulsion @xmath1 that saturate the magnitude of the band gap in compounds that have semiconducting ground states .",
    "comparisons were made with hybrid hse functionals  @xcite to assess non - local exchange effects that could further influence the magnetic ground states .",
    "all structures were optimized without constraints until the forces on each atom reached 10@xmath2  ry / au .",
    "the self - consistency criteria for total energies has been set at 10@xmath3  ry and momentum space integrals were performed using a regularly spaced k - point sampling density of 16@xmath416@xmath41,with a plane wave energy cutoff of 90  ry . for the hse calculation we used a coarser effective k - point sampling of 4@xmath44@xmath41 .",
    "the out - of - plane vertical size of the periodic supercell was chosen to be 25  @xmath5 , which typically leaves an adequate vacuum spacing greater than 10  @xmath5 between two - dimensional layers .",
    "compounds in which ( p@xmath6x@xmath7)@xmath8 bipyramids form a structural frame that can enclose different types of metal atoms . *",
    "a. * atomic structure of a mpx@xmath0 monolayer .",
    "a rectangular supercell is represented with black dashed lines while a smaller triangular lattice unit cell is represented by red solid lines .",
    "each triangular unit cell contains two transition metal atoms ( m ) arranged in a honeycomb .",
    "phosphorus ( p ) dimers are perpendicular to the plane at the center of each hexagon .",
    "three sulfur atoms are bound to each of the p atoms , and the top and bottom trimers have a relative in - plane twist of 60@xmath9 degrees . *",
    "b. * the lowest energy 3d - bulk structure consist of individual layers stacked in an abc sequence .",
    "we present the structure from three viewpoints , a side view , a top in which the phosphorous atoms within a single layer lie on top of each other , and a view in which the transition metal atoms of two adjacent layers lie on top of each other.,width=302 ]",
    "the atomic structure of mpx@xmath0 transition metal chalcogenophosphate layers is anchored by ( p@xmath6x@xmath7)@xmath8 bipyramids arranged in a triangular lattice which provide enclosures for transition metal atoms arranged in an hexagonal array .",
    "( see fig .",
    "[ fig : cellstructure ] for a schematic illustration of the single layer unit cell and the bulk atomic structure . ) the bulk crystals consists of abc - stacked single layer assemblies that are held together by van der waals forces .",
    "although the atomic structures of single layer transition metal phosphorous trichalcogenide crystals are similar to those of bulk crystals , small changes appear in response to the absence of the interlayer coupling , with distortions in the ground - state crystal geometries correlated mainly with the magnetic phase .",
    "the analysis of the magnetic properties is simplified by the fact that the magnetic moments develop almost entirely at the metal atom sites .",
    "we calculate the magnetic ground - state and meta - stable magnetic configurations by identifying converged self - consistent ground states starting from different magnetic initial conditions that can be classified as either nel antiferromagnetic ( afm ) , or ferromagnetic ( fm ) , or nonmagnetic ( nm ) states when a triangular unit cell is used .",
    "the calculation indicates that most 2d mpx@xmath0 crystals are semiconductors with localized magnetic moments that are ordered antiferromagnetically .",
    "we find that the use of chalcogen atoms with larger atomic numbers leads to an overall reduction of the energy band gap between valence and conduction bands . in the following",
    "we present an analysis of the structural and magnetic properties of representative 3d transition metal mpx@xmath0 trichalcogenides , and discuss their underlying electronic bandstructures .",
    "the mpx@xmath0 compounds that we study consist of v , cr , mn , fe , co , ni , cu , and zn transition metal atoms with 3d valence electrons , combined with three different chalcogen atoms s , se , and te .",
    "we thus expand our study beyond the most common crystals in this class , the mnps@xmath0 , feps@xmath0 , cops@xmath0 , nips@xmath0 , znps@xmath0 thiophosphates whose bulk structure had been explored in past experiments .",
    "@xcite we have optimized mpx@xmath0 lattice structures using the unit cell shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : cellstructure ] for single layers and assuming abc stacking for bulk . given this framework ,",
    "structures are characterized by the value of the in - plane lattice constant @xmath10 , the ( p - p ) distance between the phosphorous atoms , the ( m - m ) distance between metal atoms , and the ( p - x ) distance between metal and chalcogen atoms . the variation in the magnitude of these bond lengths as a function of the metal and chalcogen atom species , and magnetic configuration is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : latticecons ] , and summarized numerically in table  [ tab:2dlatticecons ] .",
    "results are presented for all metastable magnetic states .",
    "the structures have a simple dependence on chalcogen atom size , with larger in - plane lattice constants and monolayer thicknesses ( p - p distances ) for larger chalcogens . however , the dependence of structure on metal atom atomic number is not straightforward .",
    "experiments in the bulk mps@xmath0 observed a close correlation between the radius of the metal cation and the p - p distance of the thiophosphate bipyramid.@xcite the non - monotonic variation of the metal cation radius with respect to atomic number is reflected in the p - p distance trend .",
    "however , our calculations show that bond lengths correlate more strongly with magnetic state than with metal atomic number .",
    "[ tab:2dlatticecons ]    .experimental and theoretical bulk lattice parameters in @xmath5 compared with two dimensional lattice parameters for transition metal phosphorous trichalcogenide mpx@xmath0 within gga+d2 ; a is the in - plane lattice constant and c@xmath11 is a layer thickness parameter , _",
    "it is the distance between the planes containing the three chalcogen atoms in a single mpx@xmath0 layer .",
    "the values in parenthesis below the bulk c@xmath11( ) values are the interlayer distances . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab : gaps ]",
    "we find that afms are almost always gapped semiconductors , that the fm states are metallic , and that the nm phases can be either semiconducting or metallic .",
    "it follows that the mpx@xmath0 class of materials includes almost all of the behaviors being studied in current spintronics research , including importantly both antiferromagnets and ferromagnets and both metals and insulators .",
    "the magnitude of the band gaps of the semiconducting 2d mpx@xmath0 sulphides calculated within the gga approximation are 0.44  ev for crps@xmath0 , 1.36  ev for mnps@xmath0 , 0.24  ev for feps@xmath0 , 0.84  ev for nips@xmath0 , 0.01  ev for cups@xmath0 and 2.19  ev for znps@xmath0 .",
    "these gaps are consistently larger when calculated using the hybrid hse approximation which includes non - local exchange in the energy functional : 1.61  ev crps@xmath0 , 3.05  ev for mnps@xmath0 , 1.83  ev for feps@xmath0 , 2.8  ev for nips@xmath0 , 1.76  ev for cups@xmath0 and 3.11  ev for znps@xmath0 .",
    "a smaller gap enhancement is obtained using a + u interaction correction .",
    "( see table  [ tab : gaps ] . )",
    "band gaps are gradually reduced when s is replaced by heavier chalcogen atoms .        the corresponding density of states ( dos ) plots are provided in fig .  [ fig : dos ] .",
    "again we find that the electron - electron interaction model used in the calculation has an important influence on the electronic structure .",
    "the orbital content of the valence and conduction band edges can be extracted from the projected partial density of states ( pdos ) results for various mpx@xmath0 compounds presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : pdos ] . depending on the specific stoichiometry and on the magnetic configuration of the material under consideration ,",
    "the valence and conduction band edge orbitals can be dominated by metal , phosphorous or chalcogen atoms .",
    "this behavior contrasts from the behavior in the 2d materials classes that have been most extensively studied to date , for example in multilayer graphene systems in which carbon @xmath12-bands always dominate or single - layer group - vi transition metal dichalcogenides compounds in which metal d - bands always dominate .",
    "two dimensional magnetic materials are of interest primarily because of the prospect that their properties might be more effectively altered by tuning parameters that are available _ in situ_. two potentially important control knobs that can be exploited experimentally in two - dimensional - material based nano - devices are carrier - density and strain .",
    "the dependence of magnetic properties on carrier density is particularly interesting because it provides a convenient route for electrical manipulation of magnetic properties . in this section",
    "we explore the possibility of tailoring the electronic and magnetic properties of mpx@xmath0 ultrathin layers by adjusting carrier density or by subjecting the mpx@xmath0 layers to external strains .",
    "the goal of modifying the magnetic properties of a material simply by applying a gate voltage is a holy grail in magneto - electronics because it could allow magnetically stored information to be written at negligible energy cost .",
    "electric field control of magnetic order has been demonstrated in a number of materials . in ferromagnetic semiconductors",
    "the mechanism is carrier density variation in thin films which leads to a modification of the magnetic exchange interaction and magnetic anisotropy . in thin films of ferromagnetic metals ,",
    "gate voltages can vary the fermi level position at the interface , which governs the magnetic anisotropy of the metal .",
    "@xcite    we leave to future work a complete microscopic analysis of the response of a mpx@xmath0 layer to a gate voltage when it acts as one electrode of a capacitor . here",
    "we capture the most important response by simply examining the dependence of magnetic properties on carrier density .",
    "in doing so we neglect the possible role of charge polarization within a mpx@xmath0 layer .",
    "[ carrier_magnetism ] summarizes the theoretically predicted trends in competition between afm and fm states in 2d mpx@xmath0 compounds with m = v , cr , mn , fe , ni metal species and x = s , se , te .",
    "we find that when the magnetic ground state is afm ( m= v , mn , ni , fe ) , transitions to fm states are driven by sufficiently large electron or hole carrier densities .",
    "the origin of this trend is easy to understand . because the fm state is gapless the energy changes associated with adding one electron and removing one electron are identical . in the gapped afm states they differ by the energy gap @xmath13 .",
    "it follows that the energy difference per area unit between antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic states @xmath14 is given at low carrier densities by @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the carrier density of @xmath16-type samples , @xmath17 is the carrier density of @xmath17-type samples , @xmath18 is the energy difference per area unit between antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic states in neutral mpx@xmath0 sheets , and @xmath19 is the difference between the mid - gap energy of the antiferromagnetic semiconductors and the chemical potential of the ferromagnetic metals .",
    "introducing @xmath16-carriers is most effective in driving a transition from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic states when @xmath19 is positive , whereas introducing @xmath17-carriers is most effective when @xmath19 is negative . by comparing with fig .",
    "[ carrier_magnetism ] we conclude that @xmath19 is small in most cases , but large and negative in the important cases of the highest critical temperature materials , mnps@xmath0 and mnpse@xmath0 .",
    "because the energy difference per formula unit between ferro and antiferromagnetic states is much smaller than the energy gap , a transition between antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic states can be driven by carrier density changes per formula unit that are much smaller than one - especially so when @xmath19 plays a favorable role .",
    "in particular we see in fig .",
    "[ carrier_magnetism ] that a transition between ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic states are predicted in mnps@xmath0 and mnpse@xmath0 at hole carrier densities that are @xmath20@xmath21 which corresponds to about @xmath200.16 electrons per formula unit that can be achieved by ionic liquid or gel gating .",
    "transitions between ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic states are predicted in most materials in most mpx@xmath0 compounds .",
    "our calculations show that the fm solution is the preferred stable magnetic configuration in almost all cases when the system is subject to large electron or hole densities in the range above a few times @xmath22 @xmath23 . in 2d materials",
    "these large carrier densities are , in principle , achievable using ionic liquid or gel gating techniques .",
    "our calculations motivate efforts to find materials which can be used to establish good electrical contacts to mpx@xmath0 compounds , and in particular to the valence bands of mnps@xmath0 and mnpse@xmath0 . these results",
    "establish that the magnetic properties of mnpx@xmath0 two - dimensional materials are sensitive to carrier density .",
    "for the cr based compound , whose behavior is different to other compounds within this class of materials , the ground states at zero carrier density is fm and we find that a transition to an afm state occurs for @xmath16-doped systems .",
    "the membrane - like flexibility of ultrathin 2d materials makes them suitable platforms for tailoring the electronic structure properties by means of strains .",
    "representative examples on effects of strains in 2d materials properties that have been discussed in recent literature include the observation of landau - level like density of states near high curvature graphene bubbles @xcite , or the commensuration moire strains that opens up a band gap at the primary dirac point in graphene on hexagonal boron nitride for sufficiently long moire patterns @xcite .",
    "the sensitive variation of the different m - m , p - p , m - x bond lengths as a function of magnetic configuration we have presented earlier in sec .  [",
    "sec : groundstate ] suggests that strains can be used as switches to trigger magnetic phase transitions or alter the stability of the magnetic phases by modifying the total energy difference with respect to the non - magnetic phases .",
    "here we have carried out calculations of the total energies for different magnetic phases to explore the influence of expansive or compressive in - plane biaxial and uniaxial strains and the effects of external pressure along the out - of plane axis in 2d mpx@xmath0 materials .",
    "the compressive and expansive biaxial strains have been modeled through uniform scaling of the rectangular unit cell in fig .",
    "[ fig : cellstructure ] and likewise the uniaxial strains are modeled by scaling the unit cell either in the zigzag or armchair directions .",
    "we notice that generally the effects of uniform biaxial versus uniaxial strains introduce modifications in the magnetic phase energy difference total energies that are qualitatively similar for the compressive or expansive strains , and that the effects are stronger for biaxial strains when compared to unixaxial strains which do not show a noticeable difference between the zigzag or armchair directions .",
    "pressure strains along the out of plane vertical c - axis have been applied by artificially modifying the p - p distance and we find for mnps@xmath0 a clear transition from afm to fm with the total energy difference @xmath24 changing from -93  mev to 268  mev per formula unit in the presence of a -4% bond length shortening strain for the p - p distance .",
    "relatively large strains are required to alter the magnetic properties in compounds like mnps@xmath0 but other systems such as crps@xmath0 , fep@xmath25 , fepse@xmath0 nips@xmath0 and vpte@xmath0 the magnetic phase transitions can be achieved for smaller strains as they have relatively smaller total energy differences between the magnetic phases .",
    "we find a particularly sensitive transition near charge neutrality for feps@xmath0 , fepse@xmath0 and vpte@xmath0 where strains on the order of @xmath201% is enough to switch between different magnetic configurations .",
    "in this paper we have carried an _ ab initio _ study of mpx@xmath0 transition metal phosphorous trichalcogenide for different combinations of 3d metals ( m = cr , mn , fe , co , ni , cu , zn ) and chalcogens ( x = s , se , te ) in search for candidate materials that can exhibit intrinsic magnetism in the 2d single layer limit .",
    "our calculations suggest that magnetic phase is intrinsic for each individual layer of van der waals materials and various magnetic phases are expected in single layer mpx@xmath0 phosphorous trichalcogenides depending on the various combinations of transition metals and chalcogen atoms .",
    "the calculations suggest that the semiconducting nel antiferromagnetic phases are the most common form of magnetic configuration ( we find afm phase for v , mn , fe , ni based compounds ) .",
    "a metallic ferromagnetic phase is found in cr based compounds , while the non - magnetic phases are found in either semiconducting or metallic electronic structure . as expected from the weaker covalent bond energy in larger atomic orbitals",
    ", we find that for the semiconducting antiferromagnetic materials the replacing a smaller chalcogen atom with larger chalcogen atoms induces a smaller band gap energy , as a consequence the difference of the ground state energies between fm and afm phases becomes smaller .",
    "a further interesting analysis in future work is the magnetic properties of copx@xmath0 in which we do not find a magnetic phase in spite of a typically magnetic atom .",
    "we find that the electronic structure and band gap is rather sensitive to the choice of the exchange - correlation energy functional and the model for the coulomb interaction , as manifested in the large discrepancies in the density of states between the standard semi - local gga , local onsite u corrected calculations or the hybrid functionals with non - local exchange .",
    "this sensitivity of the optimized ground - state results to the choice of the approximation scheme makes it desirable to benchmark the results against experiments in order to establish reliable theoretical models to further our study .",
    "an interesting interdependence between magnetic order and atomic structure was found with typical variations on the order of a few percents in the lattice constant and interatomic bond lengths leading to structural distortions depending on the magnetic configuration of the system .",
    "the bond length variations were traced through m - m , p - p , p - x bond distances associated with the distortions in the honeycomb array of the transition metal atoms and the distance between the atomic centers in the ( p@xmath6x@xmath7)@xmath8 bipyramids .",
    "we leave for future work the analysis on the role of spin - orbit coupling effects and optical properties arising from lattice symmetry breaking coupled to the onset of magnetism .",
    "sizable differences between the gga and the lda solutions is suggestive of the delicate balance between the different chemical bonds for configuring the optimized structure of these compounds which in turn are affected by the onset of magnetism .    in 2d mpx@xmath0 different stable and meta - stable magnetic configurations were found .",
    "the semiconducting states with a band gap are typically antiferromagnetic phases in either nel , zigzag , or stripy configuration and the metallic states are typically ferromagnetic phases .",
    "the critical temperatures for the magnetic phases in the single layer limit is expected in principle to be smaller than the bulk due to the absence of interlayer exchange that can further stabilize the magnetic phase .",
    "we analyzed the magnetic phases of the 2d mpx@xmath0 by building an effective model hamiltonian with the exchange coupling parameters extracted by mapping the total energies from our _ ab initio _ calculations onto an effective model .",
    "the curie and nel temperatures t@xmath26 , t@xmath27 are obtained by using a statistical analysis based on the metropolis algorithm @xcite .",
    "the calculated nel temperatures of the antiferrmomagnetic compounds with the effective model hamiltonian has a wide range of variation ranging between a few to a few hundred kelvins depending on the composition .",
    "the control of the magnetic phases with electric field in field effect transistor devices is particularly appealing for magnetic 2d material based devices where the carrier density in the devices can be controlled through appropriate gating .",
    "our calculations indicate that the transition between antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic phases can be achieved by inducing carrier densities in the 2d mpx@xmath0 as low as @xmath28  @xmath23 to values as large as @xmath29@xmath23 whose range can partially be covered in the field effect transistor devices using a backgate .",
    "the actual feasibility and device performance for inducing carrier densities depends sensitively on the specific electronic structure of the material under consideration . in 2d mpx@xmath0",
    "the gating effect is easier for metals and becomes more limited for semiconductors .",
    "we find that the tuning of carrier density in the metallic crpse@xmath0 and crpte@xmath0 compounds is most promising because the magnetic phase transition from fm to afm phases is observed for electron densities on the order of @xmath30  @xmath23 .",
    "also , the afm to fm transitions in vpte@xmath0 , mnpte@xmath0 , and feps@xmath0 can be easily achieved by electric gating because they have relatively small gga band gaps on the order of @xmath200.5  ev . for materials exhibiting magnetic phases",
    "we find that using larger chalcogen te can reduce the carrier densities required for the magnetic transition .",
    "somewhat larger carrier densities of a few tens of @xmath28  @xmath23 is needed for mn , ni based sulphides and selenides . for the materials with a large band gap of the order of evs the switching of magnetic phases is also possible with the use of higher dielectric constant materials or ferroelectric polymers which could allow reaching large enough carrier densities .",
    "the use of larger chalcogen atoms or forming appropriate heterogeneous mix of transition metal atoms reduces the semiconducting band gap size in afm phases .",
    "the interdependence between atomic and electronic structure allows to make use of strains to tune the energetically favored magnetic phase .",
    "we have found that the ground state magnetic configuration can undergo phase transitions in the presence of in - plane compression and expansion of the lattice constants , as well as c - axis pressure .",
    "the magnitude of the required strains vary greatly , with values below 1% for compounds such as feps@xmath0 , fepse@xmath0 and vpte@xmath0 , and larger strains on the order of or far greater than 4% are required to trigger a fm - afm magnetic phase transition in crps@xmath0 and nips@xmath0 .",
    "phase transitions for even larger strains on the order of @xmath209% are observed in vpse@xmath0 , mnps@xmath0 , nips@xmath0 , nipse@xmath0 whose non - strained configuration has a robust gapped antiferromagnetic phase .    in conclusion , we propose the single layer of different mpx@xmath0 transition metal thiophosphate as candidate materials with intrinsic 2d magnetic properties .",
    "the mpx@xmath0s are in principle tunable through the application of external strains or by modifying the carrier densities in field effect transistor devices .",
    "in addition , the transition temperatures can be controlled through external gate voltage and strains .",
    "the sensitivity of these systems to variations in the system parameters , such as composition stoichiometry , details of the interface , and the exchange coupling of the magnetic properties with external fields , offers ample room for future research that seek new functionalities . from our theoretical work",
    "we have been able to draw some general conclusions on the property trends of mpx@xmath0 materials as a function of composition , and their expected electronic and magnetic properties . because of the inherent uncertainties in currently available _ ab initio _ calculation methods it is desirable to accompany theoretical modelization using input data from experiments for the feasibility study of their practical implementation in spintronic devices .",
    "we are thankful to the assistance and computational resources from texas advanced computing centre ( tacc ) .",
    "this work has been supported by the 2015 research fund of the university of seoul for jj .",
    "also , this work was supported by nrf-2014r1a2a2a01006776 for ehh , onr - n00014 - 14 - 0330 and welch foundation grant tbf1473 for ahm , and nrf-2015r1d1a1a01060381 for mh .",
    "we acknowledge helpful discussions with j. d. noh on the calculation of the critical temperatures of the magnetic phases .",
    "k. s. novoselov , a. k. geim , s. v. morozov , d. jiang , m. i. katsnelson , i. v. grigorieva , s. v. dubonos and , a. a. firsov , two - dimensional gas of massless dirac fermions in graphene , nature * 438 * , 197 ( 2005 ) .",
    "l. britnell , r. m. ribeiro , a. eckmann , r. jalil , b. d. belle , a. mishchenko , y. j. kim , r. v. gorbachev , t. georgiou , s. v. morozov , a. n. grigorenko , a. k. geim , c. casiraghi , a. h. castro neto , k. s. novoselov ks , strong light - matter interactions in heterostructures of atomically thin films , science 340 , 1311 ( 2013 ) .",
    "l. j. de jongh , magnetic properties of layered transition metal compounds volume 9 of the series physics and chemistry of materials with low - dimensional structures .",
    "y. ma , y. dai , m. guo , c. niu , y. zhu , and b. huang , evidence of the existence of magnetism in pristine vx@xmath6 monolayers ( x = s , se ) and their strain - induced tunable magnetic properties , acs nano , * 6 * , 1695 ( 2012 ) .",
    "strong spin - lattice coupling in crsite@xmath0 , l. d. casto , a. j. clune , m. o. yokosuk , j. l. musfeldt , t. j. williams , h. l. zhuang , m .- w .",
    "lin , k. xiao , r. g. hennig , b. c. sales , j .- q .",
    "yan , and d. mandrus , apl mater .",
    "3 , 041515 ( 2015 ) .    t. j. williams , a. a. aczel , m. d. lumsden , s. e. nagler , m. b. stone , j .- q .",
    "yan , d. mandrus , magnetic correlations in the quasi-2d semiconducting ferromagnet crsite@xmath0 , phys .",
    "b 92 , 144404 ( 2015 ) .",
    "x. chen , j. qi , and d. shi , strain - engineering of magnetic coupling in two - dimensional magnetic semiconductor crsite3 : competition of direct exchange interaction and superexchange interaction , physics letters a , * 379 * , 60 ( 2015 ) .",
    "lin , h. l. zhuang , j. yan , t. z. ward , a. a. puretzky , c. m. rouleau , z. gai , l. liang , v. meunier , b. g. sumpter , p. ganesh , p. r. c. kent , d. b. geohegan , d. g. mandrus and k. xiao , ultrathin nanosheets of crsite3 : a semiconducting two - dimensional ferromagnetic material j. mater .",
    "c , * 4 * , 315 ( 2016 ) .",
    "g. ouvrard , r. freour , r. brec and j. rouxel , a mixed valence compound in the two dimensional mps@xmath0 family : v@xmath31ps@xmath0 structure and physical properties , mat .",
    ", * 20 * , 1053 , ( 1985 ) .",
    "w. klingen , g. eulenberger , and h. hahn , implementation of nitrogen trifluoride with methyl and thylmagnesiumbromid , nature of sciences . * 55 * , 229 ( 1968 ) .",
    "n. kurita and k. nakao , band structure of magnetic layered semiconductor nips3 , j. phys . soc",
    ". jpn . * 58 * , 232 ( 1989 ) .",
    "k. c. rule , g. j. mcintyre , s. j. kennedy , and t. j. hicks , single - crystal and powder neutron diffraction experiments on feps@xmath0 : search for the magnetic structure phys .",
    "b * 76 * , 134402 , ( 2007 ) .                  a r wildes .",
    "s j kennedy and t j hicks , true two - dimensionalmagnetic ordering in mnps@xmath0 , j. phys . : condens .",
    "matter * 6 * , 335 ( 1994 ) .",
    "j. liu , x .- b .",
    "li , d. wang , w .- m .",
    "lau , p. peng , and l .- m .",
    "liu , diverse and tunable electronic structures of single - layer metal phosphorus trichalcogenides for photocatalytic water splitting , the journal of chemical physics * 140 * , 054707 ( 2014 ) .",
    "wang , y. liu , p. hu , m.i.b .",
    "utama , c.k .",
    "gan , q.h .",
    "xiong , and c. kloc , weak van der waals stacking , wide - range band gap , and raman study on ultrathin layers of metal phosphorus trichalcogenides , acs nano 10(2 ) , 1738 - 1743 ( 2016 ) .",
    "r. brec , d.m .",
    "schleigh , g. ouvrard , a. louisy , and j. rouxel , physical properties of lithium intercalation compounds of the layered transition chalcogenophosphates , inorganic chemistry , vol . * 18 * , 1814 ( 1979 ) .",
    "p. j. s. foot , t. katz , s. n. patel , b. a. nevett , a. r. piercy , and a. a. balchin , the structures and conduction mechanisms of lithium - intercalated and lithium - substituted nickel phosphorus trisulphide ( nips@xmath0 ) , and the use of the material as a secondary battery electrode , phys .",
    "status solidi a * 100 * , 11 ( 1987 ) .",
    "r. clement , ion - exchange intercalation into the mps@xmath0 layered compounds hybrid organic - inorganic composites , edited by : j .",
    "e. mark , c. y - c lee , p. a. bianconi , acs symposium series , * 585 * , 29 ( 1995 ) .",
    "r. clement , j. p. audiere , o. poizat , and c. sourisseau , y. mathey , structural , vibrational and conduction properties of a new class of layer - type mps@xmath0 compounds , mn@xmath34 m@xmath35ps@xmath0 ( m@xmath36 = cu , ag ) , solid state ionics @xmath37 , 459 ( 1983 ) .",
    "p. giannozzi , s. baroni , n. bonini , m. calandra , r. car , c. cavazzoni , d. ceresoli , g. l. chiarotti , m. cococcioni , i. dabo , a. d. corso , s. de gironcoli , s. fabris , g. fratesi , r. gebauer , u. gerstmann , c. gougoussis , a. kokalj , m. lazzeri , l. martin - samos , n. marzari , f. mauri , r. mazzarello , s. paolini , a. pasquarello , l. paulatto , c. sbraccia , s. scandolo , g. sclauzero , a. p. seitsonen , a. smogunov , p. umari , and r. m. wentzcovitch , quantum espresso : a modular and open - source software project for quantum simulations of materials , j. phys .",
    "matter * 21 * , 395502 ( 2009 ) .",
    "n. marom , j. bernstein , j garel , a. tkatchenko , e. joselevich , l. kronik , and o. hod , stacking and registry effects in layered materials : the case of hexagonal boron nitride , phys .",
    "lett . * 105 * , 046801 ( 2010 ) .",
    "m. endo , s. kanai , s. ikeda , f. matsukura and h. ohno , electric - field effects on thickness dependent magnetic anisotropy of sputtered mgo / co@xmath38fe@xmath38b@xmath39/ta structures , app .",
    "96 , 212503 ( 2010 ) .",
    "n. levy , s. a. burke , k. l. meaker , m. panlasigui , a. zettl , f. guinea , a. h. castro neto , m. f. crommie , strain - induced pseudo - magnetic fields greater than 300 tesla in graphene nanobubbles , science 329 , 544 ( 2010 ) .",
    "b. hunt , j. d. sanchez - yamagishi , a. f. young , m. yankowitz , b. j. leroy , k. watanabe , t. taniguchi , p. moon , m. koshino , p. jarillo - herrero , and r. c. ashoori , massive dirac fermions and hofstadter butterfly in a van der waals heterostructure , science 340 , 1427 ( 2013 ) .    c. r. woods , l. britnell , a. eckmann , r. s. ma , j. c. lu , h. m. guo , x. lin , g. l. yu , y. cao , r. v. gorbachev , a. v. kretinin , j. park , l. a. ponomarenko , m. i. katsnelson , yu .",
    "n. gornostyrev , k. watanabe , t. taniguchi , c. casiraghi , h - j .",
    "gao , a. k. geim and k. s. novoselov , commensurate - incommensurate transition in graphene on hexagonal boron nitride , nat .",
    "* 10 * , 451 ( 2014 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we systematically investigate the electronic structure and magnetic properties of two dimensional ( 2d ) mpx@xmath0 ( m= v , cr , mn , fe , co , ni , cu , zn , and x = s , se , te ) transition metal chacogenophosphates to examine their potential role as single - layer van der waals materials that exhibit magnetic order . </S>",
    "<S> our _ ab initio _ calculations predict that most of these single - layer materials are antiferromagnetic semiconductors . </S>",
    "<S> the band gaps of the antiferromagnetic states decrease as the atomic number of the chalcogen atom increases ( from s to se , te ) , leading in some cases to half - metallic ferromagnetic states or to non - magnetic metallic states . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the phase transition from antiferromagnetic semiconductor to ferromagnetic half - metal can be controlled by gating or by strain engineering . </S>",
    "<S> the sensitive interdependence we find between magnetic , structural , and electronic properties establishes the potential of this 2d materials class for applications in spintronics . </S>"
  ]
}