{
  "article_text": [
    "compelling evidence for an abundant , non - baryonic , non - luminous ( dark ) matter component was collected in the last decades @xcite . yet",
    ", the nature of the dark matter ( dm ) remains totally unknown , and the quest for an answer ranks as one of the main issues of the experimental particle physics , astrophysics and cosmology .    weakly interacting massive particles ( wimps ) @xcite are creditable , theoretically appealing dm candidates .",
    "if these massive relics of the early universe do exist , they are expected to be gravitationally bound to the baryonic visible matter .",
    "a direct search for wimps in the mass range from a few gev / c@xmath0 to a few tev / c@xmath0 could be based on the detection of nuclear recoils induced by wimp elastic scattering .",
    "cross - sections are not expected to exceed those of weak processes .",
    "the kinetic energy of scattered nuclei and consequently their range in dense matter would be determined by the wimp mass and by its velocity relative to a terrestrial target . in the standard halo model",
    "the wimp speed in the galaxy is supposed to follow a maxwellian distribution , showing null average values of all the velocity components .",
    "the motion of the solar system through the galaxy , however , creates an apparent wind of dark matter particles , blowing opposite to the direction of the sun s motion toward the cygnus constellation .",
    "the intensity of this wind , i.e.  the wimp flux , is expected to be time - modulated due to the earth motion in the solar system , with an annual period and a maximum rate in summer @xcite .",
    "the speed of the earth in the solar system is anyway small compared to the speed of the sun in the milky way , so the amplitude of the annual modulation is of the order of a few percent .",
    "the dama experiment @xcite at lngs has indeed reported a signal with a very clear evidence of annual modulation , as a possible indication of dm induced signal .",
    "this signal , although statistically extremely significant ( @xmath1 standard deviations ) , is controversial because many experiments have already partially or totally excluded the region allowed by dama .",
    "therefore dama results remain an intriguing puzzle .",
    "figure  [ fig : stateofart ] shows the upper limits and contour regions for the wimp spin - independent cross sections , normalized to the scattering on a single nucleon , as function of the wimp mass .",
    "the constraints from susy models with the inclusion of lhc results are also shown .",
    "the figure was made with the ` dmtools ` web page  @xcite .",
    "upper limits for the cresst - ii  @xcite , cdms+edelweiss  @xcite , xenon100  @xcite and lux  @xcite experiments are shown as solid curves .",
    "the green region indicates the predictions from the minimal supersymmetrized standard model ( mssm ) integrated with constraints set by lhc experiments  @xcite . ]    on the other hand , the angular distribution of the scattered nuclei is peaked around the direction of the apparent dark matter wind .",
    "the directional modulation is expected to be stronger than the annual modulation , with a rate of forward - scattered nuclei one order of magnitude higher than the backward - scattered nuclei .",
    "since background sources are expected to be isotropic , the detection of a signal with a preferred direction would provide a powerful discrimination .",
    "directional experiments intend to exploit this effect by measuring the direction of nuclear recoils , and hence the wimp direction .    in the above sketched wimp scenario ,",
    "the key points for the design of an experiment searching for dm with a directional approach are the expected event rate and the expected angular and energy distribution of recoiling nuclei .",
    "the expected event rate does not exceed 1 event / kg / year .",
    "such extremely low rates require strong background suppression .",
    "the wimps mean velocity inside our galaxy is a few hundred kilometers per second at the location of our solar system . for these velocities ,",
    "wimps interact with ordinary matter mainly via elastic scattering on nuclei . with expected wimp masses in the range from 10 gev to 10 tev ,",
    "typical nuclear recoil energies are of the order of 1 @xmath2 100 kev .",
    "the expected nuclear recoil energy spectrum decreases almost exponentially with energy . to exploit directionality with light - medium mass scattered nuclei ,",
    "the required spatial accuracy is in the sub - mm domain for gaseous detectors and in the sub-@xmath3 m range for solid detectors . in the first case",
    "the low event rate sets the requirement of very large volumes while in the second case an extremely high resolution is required in order to cope with the very short range of the recoil nuclei .",
    "experiments for dark matter searches based on solid or liquid targets are not able to measure the direction of nuclear recoils .",
    "they search for a wimp signal as an excess of events over the expected background with possibly an annual modulation of the event rate , if sensitive enough .",
    "the gaseous detectors , on the other hand , are capable of reconstructing the three - dimensional tracks of nuclear recoils , but their mass and the corresponding sensitivity are rather limited .",
    "current gas - based detectors as drift @xcite , newage @xcite , dmtpc @xcite and mimac @xcite make use of low - pressure cf@xmath4 with a fiducial volume ranging from 3 to 140 g @xcite , thus providing limits only on the spin - dependent wimp - proton cross - section .    the use of a solid target would allow to explore lower cross sections in the phase space indicated by recent limits drawn by direct search experiments , the challenge being the shorter track length , @xmath5(100 nm ) , resulting in the wimp - nucleus scattering .",
    "the nuclear emulsions for wimp search ( news ) project presented here aims at the direct detection of dark matter candidates by measuring the direction of wimp - induced nuclear recoils . for this challenge ,",
    "the detector exploits new generation nuclear emulsions with nanometric grains .",
    "an r@xmath6d conducted by the nagoya university in collaboration with the fujifilm company has established the production of films with nanometric grains for an ultra - high spatial resolution .",
    "we do report the results of this r@xmath6d and the corresponding development of new fully automated scanning systems capable of detecting such short tracks , with improved optical technologies overcoming the diffraction limit of conventional systems .",
    "we have studied the detection efficiency of nanometric tracks , using ion implantation systems to reproduce nuclear tracks of the same length as expected from wimp - induced nuclear recoils .",
    "a paragraph of this document is devoted to the measurements performed on the neutron yield from intrinsic film radioactivity and more in general to the discussion of potential background sources .",
    "given that nuclear emulsions are time insensitive , the detector will be placed on a standard equatorial telescope to keep its orientation fixed toward the cygnus constellation .",
    "the choice of appropriate shielding materials and detector layout is also discussed .",
    "finally we propose the design and construction of a one - kilogram detector for a pilot experiment , acting as a demonstrator of the technology and aiming at scaling it up to a larger scale experiment .",
    "the construction , run and data analysis are planned on the time scale of about six years .",
    "this experiment will demonstrate the potentiality of the technique and will start constraining the parameter space outlined by the dama experiment .",
    "after decades of remarkable experimental applications , nuclear emulsions still mantain their attraction as ionizing particle detectors of unmatched spatial and angular resolution .",
    "the first application of fully automated scanning systems to large - scale experiment was for the chorus experiment  @xcite .",
    "impressive achievements with new generation systems , more than one order of magnitude faster , allowed the design of the opera experiment  @xcite while current developments of the technology still inspire the design of high - statistics neutrino experiment with large active target  @xcite .",
    "nuclear emulsions are made of silver halide crystals embedded in a gelatine matrix .",
    "when light falls on the emulsion , or ionizing particles pass through it , some of the halide crystals are modified in such a way that they are turned into grains of silver when the emulsion is immersed in a reducing bath ( the so - called _ developer _ ) .",
    "the modifications in the grains caused by the action of light or radiation are invisible and the effect is referred to as _ formation of latent image_. after development , a silver halide emulsion is placed in a second bath , called _ fixer _ , which dissolves the unaffected grains of silver halide but leaves the small black granules of silver .",
    "finally , the plate is washed and dried  @xcite .",
    "the primary function of the gelatine is to provide a three - dimensional framework which serves to locate the small crystals of the halide and to prevent them migrating during development and fixation .",
    "the three - dimensional trajectory of passing through particles can be reconstructed with an optical microscope by connecting all the silver grains produced after development .",
    "the size of silver halide crystals in standard emulsion ranges from 0.1 @xmath3 m to 1 @xmath3 m .",
    "the sensitivity of the emulsion strongly depends on the size of the crystals : the larger the grain , the higher the emulsion sensitivity to ionising radiation . due to the low recoil energy of a wimp - scattered nucleus ,",
    "the expected track length is of the order of a few hundred nanometers .",
    "state - of - the - art emulsions produced by the fuji co.  @xcite for the opera experiment , with a linear dimension of the crystals of 200 nm , are therefore not suitable for dark matter searches .",
    "the r@xmath6d performed at nagoya university , in collaboration with fuji co. experts , led to the production of novel emulsion films with grain diameters down to a few tens of nm , one order of magnitude smaller than conventional ones .",
    "the so - called nano imaging trackers ( nit ) and ultra - nano imaging trackers ( u - nit ) , have grains of 44.2 and 24.8 nm diameter respectively ( see figure  [ fig : grains ] ) .",
    "nit films have a linear density of crystals of about 11 crystals/@xmath3 m  @xcite while u - nit show 29 crystals/@xmath3 m  @xcite .",
    "they make the reconstruction of trajectories with path lengths shorter than 100 nm possible , if analyzed by means of microscopes with enough resolution .",
    "+            nit are produced in three steps using a dedicated machine ( see figure  [ fig : production - machine ] ) .",
    "first , the agbr crystal growth is obtained by mixing in a thermostatic bath agno@xmath7 and nabr exploiting the following reaction : @xmath8 polyvinyl alcol ( pva ) is then added to ensure the uniformity of the grain size of the crystals .",
    "nai , with a concentration of 4% mol , is also used in order to increase the quantum efficiency in the activation of the crystals .",
    "next , in the desalination phase , agbr crystals are mixed with the gelatin while the residual extra ions ( na@xmath9,no@xmath10 ) are extracted by means of a reduction process .",
    "a homogeneous crystal distribution is obtained with a centrifugation process at 1000 rpm and @xmath11 c.    finally , the emulsion gel obtained with this procedure ( see figure  [ fig : gel ] , left ) is mixed with ultra - pure water and poured on a rigid support ( usually plastic or glass ) as shown in the right picture of figure  [ fig : gel ] .",
    "the production machine is able to produce up to 3 kg of nit emulsion gel per week .",
    "the mass fractions of nit constituents and the chemical composition of nit emulsions are reported in tables  [ tab : composition ] and  [ tab : constituents ] , respectively .",
    "the emulsion composition has been carefully determined for light elements by an elemental analyser ( yanaco mt-6 ) with an uncertainty of 0.3 % .",
    "the mass fraction of silver and bromine has been measured by an energy dispersive x - ray analysis with an uncertainty of 2% .",
    "the density amounts to 3.43 g/@xmath12 .",
    ".constituents of nit emulsions [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "as a first phase of the project , we plan to perform a pilot experiment with a detector of 1 kg exposed for one year .",
    "details of the related schedule will be examined in section  [ sec : schedule ] .",
    "a detector with one kg mass of nit can be made of 50 @xmath3 m thick - films assembled in a stack of 100 planes with a surface of @xmath13 cm@xmath0 .",
    "we are considering the option of embedding opera - like films between two consecutive nit planes : opera - like films would act as a monitoring system to register , with micrometric accuracy and high sensitivity , all the radiation integrated by the detector along the exposure .",
    "as composed of the same raw materials , the intrinsic radioactivity of the opera - like films would be of the same order of magnitude of that of nit , therefore tolerable for a 1 kg detector .",
    "the emulsion planes are placed with their surface parallel to the expected wimp wind direction .",
    "we might consider to place an equivalent amount of emulsion films in an orthogonal plane .",
    "these films would act as a control sample . in case a signal would be found in thefirst sample , and only in this case , the scanning of these films would be performed to demonstrate that the signal found is not an artefact .    to maintain the detector with a fixed orientation towards the cygnus constellation it will be installed on an equatorial telescope ( see figure  [ fig : detector ] ) allowing to cancel out the effect of the earth rotation thus keeping the detector pointed on a fixed position in the sky .",
    "an equatorial telescope has two axes : the so called polar axis , parallel to the rotation axis of the earth and pointed to the north celestial pole , and the declination axis , perpendicular to the polar one .",
    "the motion of the earth can be canceled out by driving at a constant speed the polar axis synchronised with the apparent daily motion of the sky .",
    "the polar axis will be motorized and both axes will be equipped with precise encoders to constantly check the position of the mechanics with high accuracy",
    ". the detector will be therefore pointed towards the cygnus constellation and kept in that direction with an accuracy better than 1 degree .",
    "a calibration procedure of the telescope will be performed before the installation in the underground laboratory . to ensure a precise syncronization of the mount with the apparent daily motion of the sky it is necessary to tune the response of the mechanics and to correct for any possible periodic error .",
    "the calibration procedure foresees several steps .",
    "the mount will at first be tested in the external laboratory using an optical telescope mounted on it and aligned with the polar axis : the telescope will be used , during the night , to point a star in the cygnus constellation . using a specific software and an imaging ccd camera attached to the prime focus of the telescope , the mount will be guided to keep the star centered in the field of view of the ccd camera .",
    "the software will record all the guiding parameters , as the position of the star and the corrections applied to the polar and declination axis .",
    "this procedure will be repeated during several nights and all the data collected will be analyzed in order to get and apply the necessary correction to the mechanics and to the electronic system .    in a second phase",
    "the mount will be used throughout the whole day to compensate the apparent daily motion : the position during the night will be then measured in order to evaluate the pointing accuracy given by the difference between the nominal and measured positions .",
    "this measurement will provide a fine tuning on the position of both the polar and the declination axes .",
    "finally the mount will be moved underground in its final position : profiting of the presence , in the underground halls , of already existing high precision reference points the mount will be aligned with high accuracy in the north - south direction in order to align the polar axis parallel to the rotation axis of the earth .    the design and construction of the equatorial telescope will be carried - out in collaboration with specialized firms .",
    "a screening of all the materials used in the construction of the telescope is foreseen in order to evaluate their intrinsic radioactivity .",
    "a detailed simulation of all the components of the telescope is planned .",
    "a large telescope supporting both the target and the surrounding shield is considered ( see figure  [ fig : detector ] ) .",
    "this configuration allows to build a light shield while ensuring a low contamination of the background originating from the telescope itself .        in figure",
    "[ fig : detector ] a schematic view of the detector structure is shown : a stack of nit films is placed at the center of a plexiglass sphere with a diameter of 30 cm .",
    "a sphere of polyethylene will act as a shield against the external neutron background .",
    "the target and the shielding are installed on the equatorial telescope .",
    "the target emulsions are arranged in such a way to have the film surface parallel to the wimp wind .    from a preliminary evaluation",
    "a layer of 50 cm of polyethylene will reduce the external neutron flux by a factor of the order of @xmath15 : considering an integrated flux of the order of @xmath16 @xmath17 s@xmath18 , for a target with an exposed surface of @xmath13 cm@xmath0 and a thickness of 0.5 cm this corresponds to a residual flux of the order of 1 neutron / kg / year , the same order of magnitude of the intrinsic neutron contamination .",
    "more accurate evaluations of the polyethylene thickness sufficient to provide the required background rejection power are under study .",
    "the addition of a thin ( @xmath19 cm ) layer of cadmium to capture thermalised neutrons is under study .",
    "as explained in section  [ sec : expected - bkg ] nit have a high electron rejection power : a proper chemical treatment allows to reach a reduction factor of the order of 10@xmath20 in the sensitivity to electrons .",
    "for this reason the use of high - z shielding materials ( pb and cu ) against the external @xmath21 flux is not foreseen at the moment .",
    "both the passive shield and the emulsion target will be enclosed in a sealed plexiglass box maintained in high purity ( hp ) nitrogen atmosphere in slight overpressure with respect to the external environment to prevent radon contamination .",
    "the shape of the shield surrounding the detector will be optimized in order to design the lighter and efficient structure .",
    "two solutions are under study , either a parallelepiped box containing the shielding and the emulsion target , or a spherical one . in the first case the weight of the pe layer is of the order of 1.8 ton , while in the spherical option",
    "the weight is @xmath221.14 ton .",
    "even if the latter option ensures a lighter and symmetrical shielding , the final choice will depend on the cost and on the technical implementation of the design .",
    "nevertheless , we are also investigating a completely different approach based on the use of water as shielding material against the external background .",
    "a preliminary layout is shown in figure  [ fig : wateroption ] : the emulsion detector is hermetically enclosed inside a spherical container made of low - z material ( teflon or polyethylene ) with a diameter of 55  cm . the inner volume is flushed with n@xmath23 . the container is mounted on a long shaft and positioned in the centre of a tank ( diameter 5  m , height 5  m ) filled with ultra - pure water .",
    "the shaft is made of light , low - radioactive material ( i.e.  aluminum ) aligned with earth s rotation axis .",
    "the constant orientation of the target with respect to the cygnus constellation is kept thanks to the slow rotation of the shaft with the period of one sidereal day .",
    "all the mechanics needed to keep the orientation and the rotation of the shaft is mounted outside the water tank .",
    "the immersed part can be constructed in a way to keep the mean density close to 1  g/@xmath24 . in this way",
    "the mechanical load becomes negligible , thus simplifying the design and providing a big flexibility for materials selection .",
    "this solution can be more flexible and cheaper , allowing to hold much larger masses without changing neither the mechanics of the telescope nor the shielding . a detailed simulation of the shielding and a study of the mechanics requirements , together with an estimation of the costs , are ongoing .",
    "the layout of the facility we intend to build is shown in figure  [ fig : emulsion - facility ] .",
    "the total surface is about 100 m@xmath0 and it is divided in four parts : emulsion gel production , emulsion gel pouring , film development and chemical solution preparation .",
    "+ once produced , the gel will be sealed in an envelop flushed and filled with n@xmath23 and moved to the pouring station , where a glove box flushed with hp nitrogen will be installed .",
    "after the pouring , the films will be sealed in an envelop flushed and filled with n@xmath23 and stored underground until the exposure .",
    "+ all the operations involving the emulsion production and development require a dark room environment . + in order to minimize the surface contamination and the activation risk , the facility will be hosted in a clean room located underground . a class 1000 clean room is required for the emulsion production , pouring and the chemical solutions preparation ; a class 100000 will be installed for the area devoted to the development .",
    "+ an air conditioning system will be installed in order to stabilize and monitor the temperature , ( @xmath25 , and the humidity , ( @xmath26 , of the clean room .",
    "a demineralized water treatment plant and a chemical waste system are also required .    for the film development and the pouring activity foreseen in the first year of the project",
    "an excellent starting point is the existing opera emulsion handling facility shown in figure  [ fig : csemulsion - facility ] .",
    "the facility , currently hosted in hall b , is made of three rooms : a control room , a handling room and a development room , for a total surface of @xmath22 50 m@xmath0 ( see figure  [ fig : csemulsion - facility - planimetry ] ) .",
    "the handling room will be equipped with a pouring station and a development station .",
    "the installation of two systems for the temperature control is also foreseen .",
    "the scanning of the exposed films will be performed in the existing opera scanning facilities in italy , russia , turkey and japan . in italy",
    "the scanning laboratories are located at lngs , naples and bari with 13 , 5 and 3 opera microscopes respectively .",
    "few more microscopes are currently located in russian and turkish scanning laboratories .",
    "moreover at lngs and naples two additional microscopes , partially upgraded for the scanning of nit and the polarized light analysis , are available .",
    "an equivalent scanning power is hosted at nagoya university .",
    "the 90@xmath27 c.l . upper limit in case of null observation is shown in figure  [ fig : sensitivity1 kg ] for an exposure of 1 kg@xmath28year of nit emulsions , with a minimum detectable track length ranging from 200 nm down to 50 nm and in the hypothesis of zero background . even not including the directionality discrimination of the signal and assuming to reach a negligible background level , such an experiment would cover a large part of the parameter space indicated by the dama / libra results with a small ( 1 kg ) detector mass , using a powerful and complementary approach .",
    "it is worth noting that the sensitivity strongly depends on the final detection threshold : as explained in section  [ sec : expected - bkg ] the current threshold value is limited to 200 nm only by the fog density .",
    "a reduction of the fog density or its discrimination through the use of the optical microscope with polarized light , would allow to lower the threshold to 100 nm . in order to lower the threshold down to 50 nm",
    "the use of the u - nit technology is needed .",
    "moreover we are conservatively assuming zero efficiency below the threshold value while , as shown in figure  [ fig : eff_vs_length ] , the efficiency is not negligible even for shorter tracks .",
    "this would enhance the sensitivity to low wimp masses .",
    "this effect will be taken into account .",
    "upper limits for a nit detector with an exposure of 1 kg @xmath29 year , a threshold ranging from 200 nm down to 50 nm , in the zero background hypothesis . the directionality information is not included . ]",
    "on a time scale of six years we intend to perform the first exposure with a target mass of 1 kg and the corresponding analysis of the data taken . in figure",
    "[ fig : gantt ] a detailed plan of all the phases of the project is reported .    in the beginning of 2016",
    "we plan to construct a prototype shield and the equipment for the emulsion pouring .",
    "the above mentioned phases have to be completed in nine months in order to perform a first test to benchmark the level of intrinsic radioactivity of emulsions . for this measurement",
    ", we will use the gelatine produced at nagoya university and perform the pouring underground .",
    "we will perform an exposure of a 10 g detector surrounded by the prototype shield .",
    "the detector exposure together with the analysis of the emulsion films will last nine months .",
    "the results of this test will provide a measurement of the background , intended to cross - check the estimates based on simulation and measurements of intrinsic radioactivity . in parallel , tests with radioactive sources",
    "are foreseen to characterize the response to external radioactivity .",
    "we do consider the possibility of getting raw materials for the emulsion production within european countries , provided that their intrinsic radioactivity does not exceed the level measured in japanese samples .",
    "this would allow a reduction of the activation processes induced during transportation .",
    "this activity will take place in 2016",
    ".    the measurement of intrinsic radioactivity of the different emulsion components and the prototype shield materials will be performed from june 2016 to the end of 2017 .",
    "tests of the activation due to cosmic rays during the transportation will be performed by bringing samples back and forth between italy and japan .",
    "the design of the gel production machine will start in september 2016 while the design of the clean room will be carried on with the help of specialized firms , starting from january 2017 .",
    "the construction of the clean room , the pouring facility and the gel production machine will start from january 2018 and will last six months .",
    "as soon as the film production machine will be operational in the underground laboratory and the gelatine will be produced , the measurement of intrinsic radioactivity will be performed .",
    "if satisfying the required radioactivity level , the pouring of the gelatine will be performed .",
    "the design of the equatorial telescope and the choice of the materials is supposed to start soon in 2016 and last 18 months .",
    "the construction of the telescope will start in the beginning of 2018 and last six months . in the second part of 2018",
    "the surface calibration measurements and the underground telemetry will be carried out .",
    "the construction of the shield and the target holding will start in 2018 .",
    "once the equatorial telescope installation will be finalised , the detector commissioning will start .",
    "we plan to finalize the upgrade of the read - out system on a prototype microscope , exploiting in particular the resonant light scattering technique .",
    "this activity will start at the beginning of 2016 .    in june 2017",
    "a technical design report will be submitted .",
    "the upgrade of all the available opera systems will start in the second half of 2018 and last 27 months . by march 2020",
    "we plan to have the final equipment installed on a number of microscopes adequate for the analysis of 1 kg of nit emulsion in one year .",
    "once the whole film production will be completed , the run with 1 kg mass detector will start .",
    "the data taking will last one year : from october 2019 to october 2020 .",
    "the emulsion films will be developed soon after the exposure .",
    "the scanning and the analysis of the emulsion films will start once the upgrade of all the read - out systems will be complered and it is supposed to be completed by the end of 2021 .",
    "the cost for the constructions of the clean room ( 75 m@xmath0 class 1000 and 25 m@xmath0 class 100000 ) is estimated to be around 200 k. as explained in section  [ sec : set - up ] the clean room will host the production machines , the pouring and the development facilities .",
    "+ the cost of the production machine is of the order of 200 k. the pouring and the development facilities will cost about 18 kand 50 k , respectively . the above mentioned costs",
    "will be shared according to a mou to be signed between parties . in case",
    "the production will be carried out at nagoya university , japan will cover the corresponding costs .",
    "japan will cover the costs for the all the emulsion components . +",
    "a first estimate of the cost for the equatorial telescope is 15 k for the design and 240 k ; the cost for the construction of the shielding amounts to about 15 k. + finally the upgrade of the read - out systems will be needed .",
    "japan will cover the cost for the realization of their own scanning systems .",
    "the construction of the microscope prototype in europe costs about 300 k ; the hardware and computing upgrade of each opera microscope amounts to about 30 k. depending on the final scanning speed , from 10 to 14 systems will be modified for the high resolution and high speed scanning of nit for a total cost ranging from @xmath22 300 kto @xmath22 420 k. + an expense of 80 kis expected for the maintenance of the microscopes and 120 kfor the consumables .    in table",
    "[ tab : costs ] a summary of the expected costs is reported .",
    "c | c | c category & cost [ k ] & assignment + clean room & 200 & eu + nit production machine & 200 & jp + pouring facility & 18 & eu + development facility & 50 & eu + equatorial telescope & 255 & eu + shielding & 15 & eu + eu prototype microscope & 30 & eu + eu microscopes upgrade & 300 & eu + eu microscope maintenance & 80 & eu + jp microscopes upgrade & 300 & jp + consumables & 120 & eu + total & 1468 & +      news is at present a collaboration between italy , japan and russia and turkey .",
    "the involved groups are :    * university and infn bari , italy * lab . naz .",
    "gran sasso , italy * university and infn naples , italy * university and infn rome , italy * nagoya university and km institute , japan * chiba university , japan * jinr dubna , russia * moscow state university , moscow , russia * lebedev physical institute , moscow , russia * metu , ankara , turkey    all the above mentioned groups are leaders in the emulsion scanning having gathered the experience of the emulsion analysis in in the opera experiment .",
    "the scanning and the analysis of the exposed emulsions will be shared according to the available scanning power of each group .",
    "the development of the prototype , both for hardware and software , of the new read - out system is shared between lngs and naples while it is entirely carried out at nagoya university for the japanese one .",
    "the lngs and napoli groups are in charge of the design of the telescope , the construction of the prototype and the calibration measurements .",
    "the same groups will perform the intrinsic background measurements , the studies about the environmental background and the design of the detector shielding and structure .",
    "the russian groups will perform radioactive studies .",
    "the design and the realization of the local underground facilities will be shared between lngs and japan .",
    "the simulation of the detector response , efficiency and resolution as well as and the expected sensitivity is shared between lngs , naples and nagoya .",
    "the responsibility about the emulsion production , development and handling is currently assigned to the nagoya group .",
    "c.l , in the zero background hypothesis for an experiment with a mass of 10 kg ( green ) and 100 kg ( blue ) for two value of detection threshold : 100 nm ( dashed lines ) and 50 nm ( solid line ) . ]",
    "news is meant to be the first experiment with a solid target for directional dark matter searches : the use of a nuclear emulsion based detector , acting both as target and tracking device , would allow to explore the low cross section region in the phase space indicated by dama .",
    "the novel emulsion technology , based on the use of nuclear emulsion with nanometric agbr crystals ( nit ) , makes it possible to record the sub - micrometric tracks produced by the wimp scattering off a target nucleus .",
    "the presence , in the emulsion components , of light and heavy nuclei results in an enhanced sensitivity to both light and heavy wimp masses .",
    "the read - out of tracks with length of the order of 100 nm , is possible thanks to an r@xmath6d carried out on the scanning systems currently used for the analysis of the opera emulsions .",
    "the use of improved optics and mechanics allowed to reach a spatial and angular resolution of the order of 100 nm and 235 mrad , respectively , with a tracking efficiency approaching 100@xmath27 for tracks with lengths longer than 180 nm .",
    "the new optical microscope has a scanning speed of about 25 mm@xmath0/h allowing to perform a fast preselection of the candidate signal tracks with the shape analysis method .",
    "the final signal confirmation is obtained with powerful optical microscope equipped with a light polarizer : exploiting the different response of non spherical grain clusters to different polarization angles , the unprecedented spatial resolution of 10 nm is obtained .",
    "this resolution allows to resolve grains belonging to a few hundred of nanometer long tracks thus providing the final signal confirmation with a very high signal to noise ratio .",
    "the intrinsic radioactivity of nuclear emulsions has been measured and a detailed mc simulation has been performed : the estimated neutron yield allows to design an experiment with masses of the order of 10 kg while keeping this background negligible .",
    "a careful evaluation of the external background sources has been performed allowing to design a proper shielding .",
    "the final experimental set - up foresees the use of an equatorial telescope holding both the emulsion target and the shielding .",
    "we plan to perform a pilot experiment with a 1 kg mass target on a time scale of six years : even using a rather small detector mass we would be able to explore the region indicated by the dama experiment with a powerful and complementary approach ( see figure  [ fig : sensitivity1 kg ] ) .    the actual intrinsic radioactive level allows to scale the target mass and exposure time up to one order of magnitude .",
    "a careful selection of the emulsion components and a better control of their production could further increase the radiopurity , thus allowing larger detector mass .",
    "the reduction of the fog density and further developments of the optical microscopy with polarized light would allow to reduce the detection threshold down to 50 nm .",
    "improvements both in the mechanics ( use of piezoelectric - driven objective ) and in the image acquisition ( use of multiple image sensors ) envisage already now the possibility to analyse with such a resolution a volume of 100 kg or larger .",
    "moreover further improvements both in the microscope hardware and in the analysis software will permit to fully exploit the intrinsic emulsion capability of recording 3d tracks .    in figure  [",
    "fig : newssensitivity_10 - 100kg_50 - 100nm_jp ] the upper limit in case of null observation for an experiment with a mass of 10 ( green ) and 100 ( blue ) kg and for a detection threshold of 50 ( dashed lines ) and 100 ( solid lines ) nm is shown at 90 @xmath27 c.l and in the zero background hypothesis .",
    "olive et al .",
    "( particle data group ) , chin .",
    "c , * 38 * ( 2014 ) 090001 , + plank collaboration , _ plank 2015 results .",
    "cmb power spectrum , likelihoods , and robustness of parameters _ ,",
    "g. bertone , particle dark matter , cambridge university press , 2010 .",
    "m. w. goodman and e. witten , phys",
    "* d31 * ( 1985 ) 3059 .",
    "d. n. spergel , phys . rev .",
    "* d37 * ( 1988 ) 1353 .",
    "r. bernabei et al .",
    "j. * c56 * ( 2008 ) 333 .",
    "dmtools site : ` http://dmtools.brown.edu:8080/ ` . c. e. aalseth et al .",
    ", cogent collaboration , _ cogent : a search for low - mass dark matter using p - type point contact germanium detectors _ , phys . rev .",
    "* d88 * ( 2013 ) 012002 .",
    "g. angloher et al .",
    ", cresst - ii collaboration , _ results on low mass wimps using an upgraded cresst - ii detector _ , eur .",
    "j. * c74 * 12 ( 2014 ) 3184 .",
    "z. ahamed et al .",
    ", _ combined limits on wimps from the cdms and edelweiss experiments _ , phys .",
    "d 84 ( 2011 ) 011102 e. aprile et al . , xenon100 collaboration , _ dark matter results from 225 live days of xenon100 data _ , phys .",
    "* 109 * ( 2012 ) 181301 .",
    "d. s. akerib et al . , _ first results from the lux dark matter experiment at the sanford underground research facility _ , phys .",
    "* 112 * ( 2014 ) 091303 .",
    "o. buchmueller et al . , _ implications of initial lhc searches for supersymmetry _ , eur.phys.j .",
    "c71 ( 2011 ) 1634 .",
    "ahlen et al . ,",
    "_ time - projection - chambers with optical readout for dark matter , double beta decay , and neutron measurements _ , int . j. mod .",
    "* a25 * ( 2010 ) 4525 .",
    "k. miuchi , h. nishimura et al .",
    ", _ first underground results with newage-@xmath30a direction - sensitive dark matter detector _",
    "* b686(1 ) * ( 2010 ) 11 .",
    "s. ahlen , j. battat et al .",
    ", _ first dark matter search results from a surface run of the 10-l dmtpc directional dark matter detector _ , phys . lett . *",
    "b695(1 - 4 ) * ( 2011 ) 124 .",
    "j. billard , f. mayet et al .",
    ", _ directional detection of dark matter with mimac : wimp identification and track reconstruction _",
    ", j. phys .",
    "* 309 * ( 2011 ) 012015 .",
    "e. eskut et al . , _ the chorus experiment to search for muon - neutrino @xmath31 tau - neutrino oscillation _ , nucl",
    "a401 * ( 1997 ) 7 .",
    "+ s. aoki , e. barbuto , c. bozza , j. fabre , w. flegel , et al .",
    ", _ nuclear emulsions in a large , hybrid experiment ( chorus ) to search for @xmath32 _ , nucl",
    "a447 * ( 2000 ) 361 .",
    "opera collaboration , _ the opera experiment in the cern to gran sasso neutrino beam _ , jinst * 4 * ( 2009 ) p04018 .",
    "ship collaboration , _ a facility to search for hidden particles ( ship ) at the cern sps _ , arxiv:1504.04956 [ physics.ins-det ] .",
    "fowler , d.h .",
    "perkins and c.f .",
    "powell , _ the study of elementary particles by the photographic method _ , pergamon press ( 1959 ) .",
    "barkas , _ nuclear research emulsion _ , academic press , new york , 1973 .",
    "g. de lellis , a. ereditato and k. niwa , nuclear emulsions , in handbook of physics , vol . 2 ; c.w .",
    "fabjan and h. schopper ( eds . ) , ( 2011 ) springer publishers .",
    "t. nakamura , a. ariga , t. ban , t. fukuda et al .",
    ", _ the opera film : new nuclear emulsion for large - scale , high - precision experiments _ , nucl.instrum.meth .",
    "* a556 * ( 2006 ) 80 - 86 .",
    "m. natsume et al . , _ low - velocity ion tracks in fine grain emulsion _ , nucl .",
    "a575 * ( 2007 ) 439 .",
    "t. naka et al . , _ fine grained nuclear emulsion for higher resolution tracking detector _ , nucl .",
    "a718 * ( 2013 ) 519 .",
    "n. armenise et al . , nucl .",
    ". meth . * a551 * ( 2005 ) 261 + l. arrabito et al . , nucl .",
    "a568 * ( 2006 ) 578 + m. de serio et al .",
    "a554 * ( 2005 ) 247 + l. arrabito et al . ,",
    "_ jinst _ * 2 * ( 2010 ) p05004 + c. bozza et al .",
    ". meth . a _ * 703 * ( 2013 ) 204 k. morishima and t. nakano , _ development of a new automatic nuclear emulsion scanning system , s - uts , with continuous 3d tomographic image read - out _ , _ jinst _ * 5 * ( 2010 ) p04011",
    ". + s. aoki et al . , _ the fully automated emulsion analysis system _ , _ nucl .",
    "b _ * 51 * ( 1990 ) 466 + t. nakano , _ automatic analysis of nuclear emulsion _",
    "thesis , nagoya university , japan ( 1997 ) .",
    "+ opera collaboration , jinst * 4 * ( 2009 ) p06020 .",
    "a. alexandrov , v. tioukov , m. vladymyrov , _ further progress for a fast scanning of nuclear emulsions with large angle scanning system _ , jinst * 9 * ( 2014 ) c02034 .",
    "t. naka , et al . ,",
    "_ r@xmath6d status of nuclear emulsion for directional dark matter search _ , eas publ .",
    "* 53 * ( 2012 ) 51 - 58 .",
    "m. kimura and t. naka , _ submicron track readout in fine grained nuclear emulsions using optical microscopy _",
    "* a680 * ( 2012 ) 12 - 17 naka et al . ,",
    "* 86 * ( 2015 ) 073701 h. tamaru et al .",
    ", _ resonant light scattering from individual ag nanoparticles and particle pairs _ ,",
    "applied phys .",
    "* 80 * ( 2002 ) 1826 .",
    "g. bruno , _ neutron background studies for direct dark matter searches in the gran sasso underground laboratory _ , phd thesis , laquila university ( 2012 ) .",
    "arneodo et al . , _ neutron background measurements in the hall c of the gran sasso laboratory _ , nuovo cim . * a112 * ( 1999 ) 819 .",
    "wulandari et al . ,",
    "_ neutron flux underground revisited _ , astropart.phys .",
    "* 22 * ( 2004 ) 313 .",
    "k. i. nagao and t. naka , prog .",
    "( 2012 ) 043b02 .",
    "t. habu , n. mii , k. kuge , h. manto , y. takamuki , j. imaging sci .",
    "* 35 * ( 1991 ) 202 .",
    "j. s. becker , inorganic mass spectrometry - principles and applications ( wiley , 2007 ) , isbn 9780470012000 .",
    "m. laubenstein et al . , appl .",
    "* 61 * ( 2004 ) 167 .",
    "f. pupilli et al . , _ intrinsic neutron background of nuclear emulsions for directional dark matter searches _ , submitted to atrophys . j. , arxiv:1507.03532 ( astro - ph ) .",
    "j. k. shultis , r. e. faw , fundamentals of nuclear science and engineering ( crc press , 2007 ) , p. 141 , isbn 1420051369 .",
    "r. heaton , h. lee , p. skensved and b. c. robertson , nucl .",
    "a276 * ( 1989 ) 529 .",
    "w. b. wilson et al . , _ sources 4a : a code for calculating ( @xmath33,n ) , spontaneous fission , and delayed neutron sources and spectra _ , la-13639-ms , los alamos ( 1999 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> nowadays there is compelling evidence for the existence of dark matter in the universe . </S>",
    "<S> a general consensus has been expressed on the need for a directional sensitive detector to confirm , with a complementary approach , the candidates found in conventional searches and to finally extend their sensitivity beyond the limit of neutrino - induced background . </S>",
    "<S> we propose here the use of a detector based on nuclear emulsions to measure the direction of wimp - induced nuclear recoils . </S>",
    "<S> the production of nuclear emulsion films with nanometric grains is established . </S>",
    "<S> several measurement campaigns have demonstrated the capability of detecting sub - micrometric tracks left by low energy ions in such emulsion films . </S>",
    "<S> innovative analysis technologies with fully automated optical microscopes have made it possible to achieve the track reconstruction for path lengths down to one hundred nanometers and there are good prospects to further exceed this limit . </S>",
    "<S> the detector concept we propose foresees the use of a bulk of nuclear emulsion films surrounded by a shield from environmental radioactivity , to be placed on an equatorial telescope in order to cancel out the effect of the earth rotation , thus keeping the detector at a fixed orientation toward the expected direction of galactic wimps . </S>",
    "<S> we report the schedule and cost estimate for a one - kilogram mass pilot experiment , aiming at delivering the first results on the time scale of six years . </S>"
  ]
}