{
  "article_text": [
    "enthusiasm for the use of big data in the improvement of health service is huge but there is a concern that without proper attention to some specific challenges the mountain of big data efforts will bring forth a mouse @xcite .",
    "now , there is no technical problem with `` big '' in healthcare .",
    "electronic health records include hundreds of millions of outpatient visits and tens of millions of hospitalizations , and these numbers grow exponentially .",
    "the main problem is in quality of data .",
    "`` big data '' very often means `` dirty data '' and the fraction of _ data inaccuracies _ increases with data volume growth .",
    "human inspection at the big data scale is impossible and there is a desperate need for intelligent tools for accuracy and believability control .",
    "the second big challenge of big data in healthcare is _ missed information_. there may be many reasons for data incompleteness .",
    "one of them is in health service `` fragmentation '' .",
    "this problem can be solved partially by the national and international unification of the electronic health records ( see , for example , health level seven international ( hl7 ) standards @xcite or discussion of the template for uniform reporting of trauma data @xcite ) . however , some fragmentation is unavoidable due to the diverse structure of the health service . in particular ,",
    "the modern tendency for personalization of medicine can lead to highly individualized sets of attributes for different patients or patient groups .",
    "there are several universal technologies for the handling of missing data @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , the problem of handling missed values in large healthcare datasets is certainly not completely solved .",
    "it continues to attract the efforts of many researchers ( see , for example , @xcite ) because the popular universal tools can lead to bias or loss of statistical power @xcite . for each system , it is desirable to combine various existing approaches for the handling of missing data ( or to invent new ones ) to minimize the damage to the results of data analysis . for the best possible solution , we have to take into account the peculiarities of each database and to specify the further use of the cleaned data ( it is desirable to understand in advance how we will use the preprocessed data ) .    in our work",
    "we analyze missed values in the tarn database @xcite .",
    "we use the preprocessed data for :    * the evaluation of the risk of death , * the identification of the patterns of mortality , * approaching several old problems like the trunkey hypothesis about the trimodal distribution of trauma mortality @xcite .",
    "the ` two stage lottery ' non - stationary markov model developed in the sequel can be used for the analysis of missing outcomes in a much wider context than the tarn database and could be applied to the handling of data gaps in healthcare datasets which experience the problem of transferred and lost patients and missing outcomes .    in this paper",
    "we analyze the unknown outcomes",
    ". the next task will be the analysis of missed data in the most common `` input '' attributes .",
    "there are more than 200 hospitals which send information to tarn ( tarn hospitals )",
    ". this network is gradually increasing .",
    "participation in tarn is recommended by the royal college of surgeons of england and the department of health .",
    "more than 93% of hospitals across england and wales submit their data to tarn .",
    "tarn also receives data from dublin , waterford ( eire ) , copenhagen , and bern .",
    "we use tarn data collected from 01.01.2008 ( start of treatment ) to 05.05.2014 ( date of discharge ) .",
    "the database contains 192,623 records and more than 200 attributes .",
    "sometimes several records correspond to the same trauma case because the patients may be transferred between tarn hospitals .",
    "we join these records .",
    "the resulting database includes data of 182,252 different trauma cases with various injuries .",
    "16,693 records correspond to patients , who arrived ( transferred from other institutions ) to tarn hospitals later than 24 hours after injury .",
    "this sample is biased , for example the fraction of dead outcomes ( fod ) for this sample is 3.34% and fod for all data is 6.05% .",
    "this difference is very significant for such a big sample .",
    "( if all the outcomes in a group of the trauma cases are known then we use the simple definition of fod in the group : the ratio of the number of registered deaths in this group to the total number of patients there .",
    "such a definition is not always applicable .",
    "the detailed and more sophisticated analysis of this notion follows in the next section . )",
    "we remove these 16,693 trauma cases from analysis but use them later for validation of the `` mortality after transfer '' model . among them , there are 15,437 patients who arrived at a tarn hospital within 30 days after injury .",
    "we call this group ` in30 ' for short ( fig .",
    "[ maingroups ] ) .    as a result",
    "we have 165,559 records for analysis ( ` main group ' ) .",
    "this main group consists of two subgroups : 146,270 patients from this group approached tarn during the first day of injury and remained in tarn hospitals or discharged to a final destination during the first 30 days after injury .",
    "we call this group the ` available within 30 days after injury ' cases ( or ` available w30d ' for short ) .",
    "the other 19,289 patients have been transferred within 30 days after injury to a hospital or institution ( or unknown destination ) who did not return data to the tarn system .",
    "we call them ` transferred out of tarn within 30 days after injury ' or just ` out30 ' ( fig .",
    "[ maingroups ] ) .",
    "the patients with the non - final discharge destinations ` other acute hospital ' and ` other institution ' were transferred from a tarn hospital to a hospital ( institution ) outside tarn and did not return to the tarn hospitals within 30 days after injury .",
    "the database includes several indicators for evaluation of the severity of the trauma case , in particular , abbreviated injury scale ( ais ) , injury severity score ( iss ) and new injury severity score ( niss ) . for a detailed description and comparison of the scores we refer readers to reviews @xcite .",
    "the comparative study of predictive ability of different scores has a long history @xcite .",
    "the scores are used for mortality predictions and are tested on different datasets @xcite .",
    "the widely used definition of the endpoint outcome in trauma research is survival or death within 30 days after injury @xcite .",
    "a substantial number of tarn in - hospital deaths following trauma occur after 30 days : there are 957 such cases ( or 8% of tarn in - hospital death ) among 11,900 cases with ` mortuary ' discharge destination .",
    "this proportion is practically the same in the main group ( 165,559 cases ) : 894 deaths after 30 days in hospital ( or 7.9% ) among 11,347 cases with ` mortuary ' discharge destination .",
    "death later than 30 days after injury may be considered as caused by co - morbidity rather than the direct consequence of the injury @xcite .",
    "these later deaths are not very interesting from the perspective of an acute trauma care system ( as we can not influence them ) , but they might be very interesting from the perspective of a geriatric rehabilitation centre or of an injury prevention program for elderly patients .",
    "on the other hand , when `` end of acute care '' is used as an outcome definition then a significant portion of deaths remains unnoticed .",
    "for example , in the 3332 trauma cases treated in the ulleval university hospital ( oslo , norway , 2000 - 2004 ) 18% of deaths occurred after discharge from the hospital @xcite .",
    "the question of whether it is possible to neglect trauma caused mortality within 30 days after trauma for the patients with the discharge destination ` home ' , ` rehabilitation ' and other ` recovery ' outcomes is not trivial @xcite .",
    "moreover , here are two questions :    * how do we collect all the necessary data after discharge within 30 days after trauma  a technical question ? * how do we classify the death cases after discharge within 30 days after trauma ; are they consequences of the trauma or should they be considered as comorbidity with some additional reasons ?",
    "the best possible answer to the first question requires the special combination of technical and business process to integrate data from different sources .",
    "the recent linkage from tarn to the office for national statistics ( ons ) gives the possibility to access the information about the dates of death in many cases .",
    "it is expected that the further data integration process will recover many gaps in the outcome data .",
    "the last question is far beyond the scope of data management and analysis and may be approached from different perspectives .",
    "whether or not the late deaths are important in a model depends on the question being asked . from the data management perspective",
    ", we have to give the formal definition of the outcome in the terms of the available database fields .",
    "it is impossible to use the standard definition as survival or death within 30 days after injury because these data are absent .",
    "we define the outcome ` alive w30d ' for the tarn database being as close to the standard definition as it is possible .    in the tarn database discharge destinations ` home ( own ) ' , ` home ( relative or other carer ) ' , ` nursing home ' , and ` rehabilitation '",
    "are considered as final .",
    "if we assume that these trauma cases have the outcome ` alive w30d ' then we loose some cases of death . from the acute care perspective",
    "these cases can be considered as irrelevant .",
    "let us accept this definition .",
    "there still remain many cases with unknown outcome . for analysis of these cases",
    "we introduce the outcome category ` transferred ' . in this category",
    "we include the cases which left the tarn registry to a hospital or other institution outside tarn , or to an unknown destination within 30 days .",
    "the relations between the discharge destinations and these three outcomes are presented in table  [ table:2 ] .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     it may be convenient to have formulas for estimation of fod .",
    "this smoothed fod ( @xmath0 ) is found for @xmath1 as a linear combination of @xmath2 and @xmath3 ( [ sfod ] ) .",
    "for @xmath4 the simple formulas do not have much sense and we have to use a refined model with the inclusion of age ( sec .",
    "[ sec : refine ] ) the number of cases is not sufficient for good approximation for this extended model . for @xmath5 the number of cases is not sufficient and we use three bins for trauma severities marked by the values of the coarse - grained variable @xmath6 : @xmath7 ( @xmath8 , 48 cases ) , @xmath9 ( @xmath10 , 53 cases ) , and @xmath11 ( @xmath12 , 38 cases ) .",
    "@xmath13 is presented as a quadratic function of @xmath14 .",
    "@xmath15    all the coefficients are estimated using weighted least squares method .",
    "the weight of the severities combination @xmath16 is defined as the sum of weights of the corresponding trauma cases .",
    "[ [ medical - commentary-1 ] ] medical commentary + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    the complete outcome dataset derived from this work allows all patients to be included in the analysis of the effect of combined injuries .",
    "the counter - intuitive results from this analysis ( some combinations of injuries seem to have better outcomes than a single injury of the same severity ) provides a fertile area for further work .",
    "it may be that the explanation is technical , within the way that the continuum of human tissue destruction from trauma is reduced to a simple 5 point scale .",
    "each point on the scale is actually a band that covers a range of tissue damage .",
    "there might also be a true physiological explanation for the lower lethality of combined injuries , as each injury absorbs some of the force of impact .",
    "the same concept is used in formula 1 , where the cars are designed to break into pieces , with each piece absorbing some of the impact . in humans",
    "there is a well known concept that the face can act as a ` crumple zone ' and mitigate effect of force on the brain .",
    "the effect of injury combinations shown in table 6 is a novel finding that requires further analysis .      in the early 1980s",
    "a hypothetical statement was published that the deaths from trauma have a trimodal distribution with the following peaks : immediate , early and late death @xcite .",
    "this concept was clearly articulated in a popular review paper in scientific american @xcite .",
    "the motivation for this hypothesis is simple : trunkey @xcite explains that the distribution of death is the sum of three peaks : `` the first peak ( _ ` immediate deaths ' _ ) corresponds to people who die very soon after an injury ; the deaths in this category are typically caused by lacerations of the brain , the brain stem , the upper spinal cord , the heart or one of the major blood vessels .",
    "the second peak ( _ ` early deaths ' _ ) corresponds to people who die within the first few hours after an injury ; most of these deaths are attributable to major internal hemorrhages or to multiple lesser injuries resulting in severe blood loss .",
    "the third peak ( _ ` late deaths ' _ ) corresponds to people who die days or weeks after an injury ; these deaths are usually due to infection or multiple organ failure . ''",
    "strictly speaking , the _ sum of three peaks does not have to be a trimodal distribution_. many groups have published refutations of trimodality : they did not find the trimodal distribution of death . in 1995 , sauaia et al reported that the `` greater proportion of late deaths due to brain injury and lack of the classic trimodal distribution '' @xcite .",
    "wyatt et al could not find this trimodal distribution in data from the lothian and borders regions of scotland between 1 february 1992 and 31 january 1994 @xcite .",
    "they hypothesised that this may be ( partly ) due to improvements in care .    recently ,",
    "more data has become available and many such reports have been published @xcite . the suggestion that the improvement in care has led to the destruction of the second thd third peaks",
    "has been advanced a number of times @xcite . in 2012 , clark et al performed an analysis of the distribution of survival times after injury using interval censored survival models @xcite .",
    "they considered the trimodal hypothesis of trunkey as an artifact and provide arguments that the observed ( in some works ) second peak is a result of differences in the definition of death .",
    "k. sreide et al analysed the time distribution from injury to death stratified by cause of death .",
    "they demonstrated that the trimodal structure may be , probably , extracted from data but its manifestation is model  dependent ( see fig .  6 in @xcite ) .",
    "there were several discussion papers published : `` trimodal temporal distribution of fatal trauma  fact or fiction ? '' @xcite .",
    "the trimodal hypothesis was tested on tarn data @xcite .",
    "it was demonstrated that `` the majority of in hospital trauma deaths occur soon after admission without further peaks in mortality '' .",
    "we reproduce the same results , indeed . but tarn database , the largest european trauma database , allows us to make a _ stratified analysis of mortality _ and the preliminary results demonstrate the richness of the possible patterns of death .",
    "let us test the famous trunkey hypothesis . in fig .",
    "[ fig : mortalitycoeff ] the daily mortality coefficients are presented for low severities ( a ) ( niss severities 1 - 8 , 27,987 cases in database , 508 death in tarn , 3,983 patients transferred from tarn within 30 days after injury ) , and for the whole database ( b ) . for the prediction of death in the ` out30 ' group we used the model with retarded transfer .",
    "the non - monotonicity and peaks in the mortality for low severities of injury are illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : mortalitycoeff ] . further analysis of these patterns should involve other attributes such as the age of the patient and the type and localization of the injury .",
    "[ [ medical - commentary-2 ] ] medical commentary + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    it has been widely accepted that the trunkey trimodal distribution was a theoretical concept designed to illustrate the different modes of dying following injury .",
    "previous analysis of trauma data has looked at all patients and has not shown any mortality peaks , however this new analysis shows that there are peaks ( patterns ) if subgroups are studied .",
    "the underlying clinical or patient factors are not immediately obvious , but future analysis giving a better understanding of patterns of death could act as a stimulus to look for the clinical correlates of these patterns - with the potential to find modifiable factors .",
    "the pattern of death in various subgroups as shown in figure 7 is a novel finding that requires further analysis .",
    "handling of data with missed outcomes is one of the first data cleaning tasks . for many healthcare datasets ,",
    "the problem of lost patients and missed outcomes ( in 30 days , in six months or any other period of interest ) is important .",
    "there are two main approaches for solving this problem :    1 .   to find the lost patients in other national and international databases ; 2 .   to recover the distribution of the missed outcomes and all their correlations using statistical methods , data mining and stochastic modelling .",
    "without any doubt the first approach is preferable if it is available : it is better to have complete information when it is possible .",
    "nevertheless , there may be various organizational , economical and informational restrictions",
    ". it may be too costly to find the necessary information , or this information may be unavailable or even does not exist in databases . if there are only small number of lost cases ( dozens or even hundreds ) then they may be sought individually .",
    "however if there are thousands of losses then we need either a data integration system with links to appropriate databases like the whole nhs and ons data stores ( with the assumption that the majority of the missed data may be taken from these stores ) or a system of models for the handling of missed data , or both because we might not expect all missed data to be found in other databases .    in the tarn dataset , which we analyse in this paper",
    "the outcome is unavailable for 19,289 patients .",
    "the available case study paradigm can not be applied to deal with missed outcomes because they are not missed ` completely at random ' .",
    "non - stationary markov models of missed outcomes allow us to correct the fraction of death .",
    "two nave approaches give 7.20% ( available case study ) or 6.36% ( if we assume that all unknown outcomes are ` alive ' ) .",
    "the corrected value is 6.78% ( refined model with retarded transfer ) .",
    "the difference between the corrected and nave models is significant , whereas the difference between different markov corrections is not significant despite the large dataset .",
    "non - stationary markov models for unknown outcomes can utilize any scheme of predictive models with using any set of available attributes . we demonstrate the construction of such models using maximal severity model , binned niss model and binned niss supplemented by the age structure at low severities .",
    "we use weighting adjustment to compensate for the effect of unknown outcomes .",
    "the large tarn dataset allows us to use this method without significant damage to the statistical power .",
    "analysis of mortality for a combination of injuries gives an unexpected result .",
    "if @xmath17 are the three maximal severities of injury in a trauma case then the expected mortality ( fod ) is not a monotone function of @xmath18 , @xmath18 , under given @xmath19 .",
    "for example , for @xmath20 expected fod",
    "first decreases when @xmath2 grow from 0 to 1 - 2 and then increases when @xmath21 approaches @xmath19 .",
    "following the seminal trunkey paper @xcite , multimodality of the mortality curves is a widely discussed problem . for the complete tarn dataset",
    "the coefficient of mortality monotonically decreases in time but stratified analysis of the mortality gives a different result : for lower severities fod is a non - monotonic function of the time after injury and may have maxima at the second and third weeks after injury",
    ". perhaps , this effect may be ( partially ) related to geriatric traumas .",
    "we found that the age distribution of trauma cases is strongly multimodal ( fig .",
    "[ fig : mortality ] ) .",
    "this is important for healthcare planning",
    ".    the next step should be the handling of missed values of input attributes in the tarn database firstly , we should follow the `` guidelines for reporting any analysis potentially affected by missing data '' @xcite , report the number of missing values for each variable of interest , and try to `` clarify whether there are important differences between individuals with complete and incomplete data '' .",
    "already preliminary analysis of the patterns in the distribution of the missed input data in the tarn dataset demonstrates that the gaps in data are highly correlated and need further careful analysis .",
    "secondly , we have to test and compare various methods of handling missing input attributs in the tarn database .",
    "it is not necessary to analyse all attributes in the database for mortality prediction and risk evaluation .",
    "it is demonstrated that there may exist an optimal set of input attributes for mortality prediction in emergency medicine and additional variables may even reduce the value of predictors @xcite .",
    "therefore , before the analysis of imputation efficiency , it is necessary to select the set of most relevant variables of interest .",
    "the models developed in this case study can be generalized in several directions .",
    "firstly , for trauma datasets , different attributes could be included in the ` state ' @xmath22 for the non - stationary markov models ( figs .",
    "[ fig : mortalitymodelbefore ] , [ fig : mainmarkovmodelafter ] ) .",
    "we did not explore all such possibilities but have studied just simple models of the maximal severity and binned niss .",
    "an example of model refinement with inclusion of age in the state variable @xmath22 is presented in section  [ sec : refine ] .",
    "secondly , the ` two stage lottery ' non - stationary markov model could be used as a general solution applicable to any health dataset where ` transfer in ' or ` transfer out ' is a feature .",
    "transfer between hospitals is common in healthcare , therefore , we expect that models of this type will be useful for all large healthcare data repositories .",
    "the trauma audit and research network ( tarn ) have collected the largest european trauma database .",
    "we have analysed 192,623 cases from the tarn database .",
    "we excluded from the analysis 16,693 patients ( 8.67% ) , who arrived into tarn hospitals later than 24 hours after injury .",
    "the other 146,270 patients ( 75.94% ) approached tarn during the first day of injury and remained in tarn or discharged to a final destination within 30 days of injury .",
    "19,289 patients ( 13.19% ) from this group transferred from tarn to another hospital or institution ( or unknown destination ) within 30 days of injury .",
    "for this subgroup the outcome is unknown .",
    "analysis of the missed outcomes demonstrated that they can not be considered as misses ` completely at random ' .",
    "therefore , the analysis of available cases is not applicable for the tarn database .",
    "special efforts are needed to handle data with missed outcomes .",
    "we have developed a system of non - stationary markov models for the handling of missed outcomes and validated these models on the data arising from patients who moved to tarn ( and excluded from the model fitting ) .",
    "we have analysed mortality in the tarn database using the markov models which we have developed and also validated .",
    "the results of analysis were used for weighting adjustment in the available cases database ( reweighting of the death cases ) .",
    "the database with adjusted weights can be used for further data mining tasks and will keep the proper fraction of deaths . 5 .",
    "the age distribution of trauma cases is essentially multimodal , which is important for healthcare planning .",
    "our analysis of the mortality coefficient in the tarn database demonstrates that ( i ) for complex traumas the fraction of death is not a monotone function of all severities of injuries and ( ii ) for lower severities the fraction of death is not a monotonically decreasing function of time after injury and may have intermediate peaks in the second and third weeks after injury .",
    "the approach developed here can be applied to various healthcare datasets which have the problem of lost patients , inter  hospitals transfer and missing outcomes .",
    "o. bouamra , a. wrotchford , s. hollis , a. vail , m. woodford , f. lecky , a new approach to outcome prediction in trauma : a comparison with the triss model , journal of trauma - injury , infection , and critical care 61 ( 3 ) ( 2006 ) , 701710 .",
    "t. brockamp , m. maegele , c. gaarder , j.c .",
    "goslings , m.j .",
    "cohen , r. lefering , p. joosse , p.a .",
    "naess , n.o .",
    "skaga , t. groat , s. eaglestone , m.a .",
    "borgman , p.c .",
    "spinella , m.a .",
    "schreiber , k. brohi , comparison of the predictive performance of the big , triss , and ps09 score in an adult trauma population derived from multiple international trauma registries , critical care 17 ( 2013 ) , r134 , http://ccforum.com/content/17/4/r134      h.r .",
    "champion , w.s .",
    "copes , w.j .",
    "sacco , c.f .",
    "frey , j.w .",
    "holcroft , d.b .",
    "hoyt , j.a .",
    "weigelt , improved predictions from a severity characterization of trauma ( ascot ) over trauma and injury severity score ( triss ) : results of an independent evaluation , journal of trauma - injury , infection , and critical care 40 ( 1 ) ( 1996 ) , 4249 .",
    "d. demetriades , b. kimbrell , a. salim , g. velmahos , p. rhee , c. preston , g. gruzinski , l. chan , trauma deaths in a mature urban trauma system : is `` trimodal '' distribution a valid concept ?",
    "journal of the american college of surgeons 201 ( 3 ) ( 2005 ) , 343348 .",
    "dolin , l. alschuler , s. boyer , c. beebe , f.m .",
    "behlen , p.v .",
    "biron , a. shabo ( shvo ) , hl7 clinical document architecture , release 2 , journal of the american medical informatics association 13 ( 1 ) ( 2006 ) , 3039 .",
    "g. fuller , o. bouamra , m. woodford , t. jenks , h. patel , t.j .",
    "coats , p. oakley , a.d .",
    "mendelow , t. pigott , p.j .",
    "hutchinson , f. lecky , the effect of specialist neurosciences care on outcome in adult severe head injury : a cohort study , journal of neurosurgical anesthesiology 23 ( 3 ) ( 2011 ) , 198205 .",
    "g. fuller , o. bouamra , m. woodford , t. jenks , s. stanworth , s. allard , t.j .",
    "coats , k. brohi , f. lecky , recent massive blood transfusion practice in england and wales : view from a trauma registry , emergency medicine journal 29 ( 2 ) ( 2012 ) , 118123 .",
    "g. fuller , o. bouamra , m. woodford , t. jenks , h. patel , t. j. coats , p. oakley , a.d .",
    "mendelow , t. pigott , p.j .",
    "hutchinson , f. lecky , temporal trends in head injury outcomes from 2003 to 2009 in england and wales , british journal of neurosurgery 25 ( 3 ) ( 2011 ) , 414421 .",
    "gabbe , grad dip biostat , f.e .",
    "lecky , o. bouamra , m. woodford , t. jenks , t.j .",
    "coats , p.a .",
    "cameron , the effect of an organized trauma system on mortality in major trauma involving serious head injury : a comparison of the united kingdom and victoria , australia , annals of surgery 253 ( 1 ) ( 2011 ) , 138143 .",
    "goldfarb , w.j .",
    "sacco , m.a .",
    "weinstein , t.f .",
    "ciurej , r.a .",
    "cowley , h.r .",
    "champion , w. gill , w.b .",
    "long , t.c .",
    "mcaslan , two prognostic indices for the trauma patient , computers in biology and medicine 7 ( 1 ) ( 1977 ) , 2125 .",
    "guly , o. bouamra , m. spiers , p. dark , t. coats , f.e .",
    "lecky , vital signs and estimated blood loss in patients with major trauma : testing the validity of the atls classification of hypovolaemic shock , resuscitation 82 ( 5 ) ( 2011 ) , 556559 .        c. de knegt , s.a.g .",
    "meylaerts , l.p.h .",
    "leenen , applicability of the trimodal distribution of trauma deaths in a level i trauma centre in the netherlands with a population of mainly blunt trauma , injury 39 ( 9 ) ( 2008 ) , 9931000 .",
    "a. lavoie , l. moore , n. lesage , m. liberman , j.s .",
    "sampalis , the new injury severity score : a more accurate predictor of in - hospital mortality than the injury severity score .",
    "journal of trauma - injury , infection , and critical care 56 ( 2004 ) , 13121320 .",
    "lowe , h.l .",
    "gately , j. r. goss , c.l .",
    "frey , c.g .",
    "peterson , patterns of death , complication , and error in the management of motor vehicle accident victims : implications for a regional system of trauma care , journal of trauma - injury , infection , and critical care 23 ( 6 ) ( 1983 ) , 503509 .",
    "ringdal , t.j .",
    "coats , r. lefering , s. di bartolomeo , p.a .",
    "steen , o. rise , l. handolin , h.m .",
    "lossius , and utstein tcd expert panel , the utstein template for uniform reporting of data following major trauma : a joint revision by scantem , tarn , dgu - tr and ritg , scandinavian journal of trauma , resuscitation and emergency medicine 16 ( 1 ) ( 2008 ) , 7 .",
    "r. rutledge , t. osler , s. emery , s. kromhout - schiro , the end of the injury severity score ( iss ) and the trauma and injury severity score ( triss ) : iciss , an international classification of diseases , ninth revision - based prediction tool , outperforms both iss and triss as predictors of trauma patient survival , hospital charges , and hospital length of stay , journal of trauma - injury , infection , and critical care 44 ( 1 ) ( 1998 ) , 4149 .",
    "sacco , j.w .",
    "jameson , w.s .",
    "copes , m.m .",
    "lawnick , s.l .",
    "keast , h.r .",
    "champion , progress toward a new injury severity characterization : severity profiles , computers in biology and medicine 18 ( 6 ) ( 1988 ) , 419429 .",
    "sacco , a.v .",
    "milholland , w.p .",
    "ashman , c.l .",
    "swann , l.m .",
    "sturdivan , r.a .",
    "cowley , h.r .",
    "champion , w. gill , w.b .",
    "long , t. c. mcaslan , trauma indices , computers in biology and medicine 7 ( 1 ) ( 1977 ) , 920 .",
    "a. sauaia , f.a .",
    "moore , e.e .",
    "moore , k.s .",
    "moser , r. brennan , r.a .",
    "read , p.t .",
    "pons , epidemiology of trauma deaths : a reassessment , journal of trauma  injury , infection , and critical care 38 ( 2 ) ( 1995 ) , 185193 .",
    "w.c . shoemaker , d.s .",
    "bayard , c.c.j . wo , a. botnen , l.s .",
    "chan , l - c .",
    "chien , k. lu , d. demetriades , h. belzberg , r.w .",
    "jelliffe , stochastic model for outcome prediction in acute illness , computers in biology and medicine 36 ( 6 ) ( 2006 ) , 585600 .",
    "k. sreide , a.j .",
    "krger , a. line vrdal , c.l .",
    "ellingsen , e. sreide , h.m .",
    "lossius , epidemiology and contemporary patterns of trauma deaths : changing place , similar pace , older face , world journal of surgery 31 ( 11 ) ( 2007 ) , 20922103 .",
    "sterne , i.r .",
    "white , j.b .",
    "carlin , m. spratt , p. royston , m.g .",
    "kenward , a.m. wood , j.r .",
    "carpenter , multiple imputation for missing data in epidemiological and clinical research : potential and pitfalls , british journal of medicine 338 ( 2009 ) , b2393 .",
    "t. sullivan , a. haider , s.m .",
    "dirusso , p. nealon , a. shaukat a , m. slim , prediction of mortality in pediatric trauma patients : new injury severity score outperforms injury severity score in the severely injured , journal of trauma - injury , infection , and critical care 55 ( 2003 ) , 10831087 .              * evgeny mirkes * ( ph.d .",
    ", sc.d . ) is a research fellow at the university of leicester .",
    "he worked for russian academy of sciences , siberian branch , and siberian federal university ( krasnoyarsk , russia ) .",
    "his main research interests are biomathematics , data mining and software engineering , neural networks and artificial intelligence . he led and supervised many medium - sized projects in data analysis and development of decision - support systems for computational diagnosis and treatment planning .",
    "* timothy j. coats * ( frcs ( eng ) , md , fcem ) is a professor of emergency medicine at the university of leicester .",
    "chair faem research committee 2000 - 2009 , chair trauma audit and research network ( tarn ) , chair nihr injuries and emergencies national specialist group .",
    "research interests : diagnostics and monitoring in emergency care , coagulation following injury , predictive modeling of outcome following injury .",
    "* jeremy levesley * ( ph.d , fima ) is a professor in the department of mathematics at the university of leicester .",
    "his research area is kernel based approximation methods in high dimensions , in euclidean space and on manifolds .",
    "he is interested in developing research at the interface of mathematics and medicine , and sees interpretation of medical data sets as a key future challenge for mathematics .    *",
    "alexander n. gorban * ( ph.d .",
    "professor ) holds a personal chair in applied mathematics at the university of leicester since 2004 .",
    "he worked for russian academy of sciences , siberian branch ( krasnoyarsk , russia ) , and eth zrich ( switzerland ) , was a visiting professor and research scholar at clay mathematics institute ( cambridge , ma ) , ihes ( bures - sur - yvette , le de france ) , courant institute of mathematical sciences ( new york ) , and isaac newton institute for mathematical sciences ( cambridge , uk ) .",
    "his main research interests are dynamics of systems of physical , chemical and biological kinetics ; biomathematics ; data mining and model reduction problems ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> handling of missed data is one of the main tasks in data preprocessing especially in large public service datasets . </S>",
    "<S> we have analysed data from the trauma audit and research network ( tarn ) database , the largest trauma database in europe . for the analysis we used 165,559 trauma cases . among them , there are 19,289 cases ( 13.19% ) with unknown outcome . </S>",
    "<S> we have demonstrated that these outcomes are not missed ` completely at random ' and , hence , it is impossible just to exclude these cases from analysis despite the large amount of available data . we have developed a system of non - stationary markov models for the handling of missed outcomes and validated these models on the data of 15,437 patients which arrived into tarn hospitals later than 24 hours but within 30 days from injury . </S>",
    "<S> we used these markov models for the analysis of mortality . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we corrected the observed fraction of death . </S>",
    "<S> two nave approaches give 7.20% ( available case study ) or 6.36% ( if we assume that all unknown outcomes are ` alive ' ) . </S>",
    "<S> the corrected value is 6.78% . </S>",
    "<S> following the seminal paper of trunkey ( 1983 ) the multimodality of mortality curves has become a much discussed idea . for the whole analysed tarn dataset the coefficient of mortality monotonically decreases in time but the stratified analysis of the mortality gives a different result : for lower severities the coefficient of mortality is a non - monotonic function of the time after injury and may have maxima at the second and third weeks . </S>",
    "<S> the approach developed here can be applied to various healthcare datasets which experience the problem of lost patients and missed outcomes .    </S>",
    "<S> missed data , big data , data cleaning , mortality , markov models , risk evaluation </S>"
  ]
}