{
  "article_text": [
    "the nature of the dark matter still remains a mystery .",
    "most of the observational evidence point towards cold dark matter : the @xmath0cdm cosmology model describes accurately the large - scale structure of the universe , reproduces naturally all the properties of the cosmic microwave background and produces a scenario for galaxy formation that is receiving increasing confirmations from various observational diagnostics . indeed ,",
    "small scale problems that used to be vexing for two decades , such as the angular momentum problem in disk galaxies or the shape of the rotation curves of gas - rich dwarf galaxies , are largely solved by baryonic physics effects , most notably the effect of feedback processes that selectively eject low angular momentum baryons and produce cores in low mass dark halos via impulsive heating of the dark matter cusps ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "however , unsolved issues remain in the number counts of dwarf galaxies , both among satellite galaxies of large spirals , such in our local group , and in the field .",
    "indeed , while the dearth of faint satellite galaxies , hosted by halos with @xmath6  km / s , can be explained by the combined effect of reionization , stellar feedback and environmental processes ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , it has been pointed out that there is still a possible excess of massive satellite halos with @xmath7  km / s relative to the number of observed bright dwarf galaxies @xcite , which also appear to have lower central densities than predicted by cdm . squelching by reionization can not provide a simple solution in the latter case since gas will be retained within hosts of this mass @xcite , which actually ought to be even more massive before infall @xcite .",
    "cosmological hydrodynamical simulations , however , suggest that feedback before infall may modify the dm density profiles enough to reduce the central densities of satellites ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , while recent simulations embedding high - resolution models of satellites within cosmological mw - sized halos do show that tidal stripping and stirring of satellites with such previously modified central dm profiles may have a strong effect on the resulting satellite population , possibly eliminating the  massive failures \" ( @xcite ; @xcite ) . yet ,",
    "also _ in the field _ a dearth of dwarfs with @xmath8  km / s has been noted relative to cdm prediction @xcite which is harder to explain since one can not rely on the combination of feedback and environmental effects .    in order to seek alternative solutions to these small scale problems recently ,",
    "there has been revived interest in other dark matter models such as self - interacting dark matter ( sidm ) and warm dark matter ( wdm ) model , or better in models that give rise to a truncated power spectrum of density fluctuations at scales close to those of dwarf galaxies ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) . @xcite",
    "have used cosmological hydrodynamical simulations to show that sidm does not modify the central density of the dark halo in dwarfs with peak velocities less than @xmath9  km / s , a range where also baryonic feedback effects are inefficient , while above that baryonic feedback dominates and leads to results almost identical to cdm , at least for a fixed 2 @xmath10g@xmath11 sidm cross section .",
    "it remains to be seen how sidm models with a velocity - dependent cross section would behave .    by construction wdm models",
    "reduce the abundance of dwarf galaxies , possibly up to the scale of the  massive failures \" as long as the particle rest mass energy is high enough ( above 1  kev ) . here",
    "we consider wdm models in the @xmath1  kev range .",
    "compared to cdm , wdm particle is much lighter , therefore has more significant free - streaming .",
    "popular candidates for wdm are the gravitino @xcite and the ( right - handed ) sterile neutrino @xcite , with a fermi - dirac - like momentum distribution , which can yield the desired cut - off of the power spectrum at small scales . these are models that follow in the category of _ thermal relics _ , and this is the category that we will always implicitly assume in this paper .",
    "most stringent constraints on wdm mass are given by the lyman-@xmath12 forest with @xmath13  kev to a 2-@xmath3 confidence level @xcite .",
    "the number counts of dwarf galaxies yield also @xmath14  kev @xcite , at 2-@xmath3 confidence level too , but with further uncertainties coming from the mapping between dark matter halos and baryons .",
    "@xcite performed wdm pure n - body zoom - in simulations of mw - sized halos assuming a sterile neutrino model in the range @xmath15  kev , finding that they can naturally avoid the  too - big - to - fail \" problem highlighted by @xcite .",
    "however , in order to be a credible model for galaxy formation , wdm needs to pass a number of tests . among these",
    "are the rate and timing of assembly of the baryons inside galaxies , which are reflected in their star formation histories and final stellar masses . as in",
    "wdm galaxies tend to form later than in cdm the timing of the assembly of their baryonic components will indeed be affected , but to what extent and whether or not this is measurable with some clear diagnostic is not yet firm .",
    "@xcite have begun to address these important aspects using a small set of zoom - in hydrodynamical simulations of field dwarfs .",
    "they have shown that the later formation time can leave an imprint in the star formation histories ( sfhs ) of dwarfs and even more in the properties of the stellar populations traced with color - magnitude diagrams .",
    "inspired by these recent numerical results , we attempt a novel test of wdm models in the context of galaxy formation .",
    "the test uses star formation histories of dwarf galaxy satellites to infer a range of possible formation times , and compares them with the formation time expected in different wdm scenarios as opposed to cdm .",
    "we use dwarf galaxies which are known to be highly dark - matter - dominated , hence appropriate nearby objects to probe more directly different dark matter models .",
    "moreover most dwarf spheroidals show no currently active star formation sites and all of them have a substantial , often highly predominant , population of very old stars ( e.g. @xcite ) , allowing to probe directly the early assembly history of such objects , which is the thrust of the method that we propose here .",
    "we compare the formation time of the dwarf dark halo inferred in cdm and wdm models by our method and the time at which the galaxy has formed 90% , of its stars , namely the bulk of its stellar component .",
    "this is a timely analysis owing to the improved accuracy of sf histories of local dwarfs by means of hst - based high quality color - magnitude diagrams ( @xcite ; @xcite and the papers of the lcid collaboration @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "we determine if a dwarf sfh to be consistent or not with a certain wdm scenario by requiring that its wdm halo can not form later than the bulk of its stars .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section [ methods ]",
    "we describe our methodology to determine the formation time ( collapse redshift ) of dwarf galaxy satellites , highlighting the assumptions on which it is based .",
    "in passing we also discuss a self - consistency check on the infall mass assignment by means of the dynamical friction timescale . in section [ results ]",
    "we present our main results concerning wdm models with particles having masses in the range 2 - 3  kev , focusing on the mw ultra - faint dwarfs which we found to be the most constraining objects in our sample . in section [ results1kev ]",
    "we present our results to place constraints on the 1  kev particles , this time using both mw ultra - faint dwarfs and the classical dsphs . in section [ caveats ]",
    "we discuss the caveats of our methods and in section [ conclusion ] we provide concise conclusions .",
    "an appendix follows which shows the constraints on 2 - 3  kev models coming from the sf histories of classical dsphs and a more thorough explanation of the dynamical friction argument that we use as a further check of the range of plausible infall masses for a given dwarf galaxy .",
    "we aim to derive the collapse redshift of a dwarf satellite halo through the available kinematic data . in cdm we may exploit the @xmath16 relation to infer the collapse redshift ; however this is excluded in wdm models since the relation is not monotonic anymore .",
    "we turn to an extended @xcite ( eps ) model which yields @xmath17 curves .",
    "@xcite showed that the mass of the dwarf halos can be inferred via their kinematic data , whose method was developed further by @xcite .",
    "we start by briefly reviewing their approaches before turning on to eps in wdm .",
    "we close this section with @xcite reconstruction of star formation .",
    "@xcite infer the mass of the host halo of the milky way satellites from the 3d deprojected half - light radius @xmath18 and the mass enclosed within it @xmath19 , which can be solidly approximated by : @xmath20 where @xmath21 is the stellar velocity dispersion , which is assumed to be flat near the half - light radius . for most profiles , @xmath18 can be approximated by @xmath22 , where @xmath23 is the ( two dimensional ) projected half - light radius . @xmath23 and @xmath21 are taken from @xcite . to a good extent , @xmath24 owes the largest contribution to the dark matter mass enclosed within the half - light radius since dsphs are dark - matter dominated at all radii",
    ". therefore we neglect the stellar mass and determine the total mass of the dwarf by assuming that its total mass is that of an nfw halo whose enclosed mass @xmath25 for @xmath26 matches the observationally determined value of @xmath24 . in doing that we have the freedom of choosing the concentration @xmath27 of the nfw profile .",
    "therefore , in practice we first assume a possible @xmath28 and then determine if there is a @xmath29 pair that fits the constraints by using @xcite fitting formula .",
    "we note that it has been already shown that the nfw model is a good model to describe the dark matter distribution also in the case of a wdm universe , see @xcite , therefore the same procedure can be repeated in both cases .",
    "the concentration values implied by the fitting procedures are different in the two cases though , as wdm concentrations are found to be lower both by analytical models and simulations ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; dropping below 10 @xcite . @xcite",
    "consider @xmath28 as a good proxy for the mass of the subhalo hosting the dwarf before infall into the primary halo of the milky way or m31 , which we will refer to as @xmath30 .",
    "table [ ccdm ] and table [ cwdm ] report the @xmath31 pair of values adopted for the cdm subhalo models and various wdm subhalo models considered throughout the paper and discussed later on .",
    ".mean value of cdm halo concentrations for a given @xmath30 , assumed to be @xmath28 , in wolf et al .",
    "values are taken from @xcite fitting formula .",
    "[ ccdm ] [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     note that the dark matter profile of dwarf galaxies is likely flattened away from the nfw profile due to baryonic feedback effects ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "we will discuss later , in section 5 , how this could affect our conclusions in light of recent work based on hydrodynamical simulations .",
    "we are also aware that dwarf galaxies lose mass due to tidal mass loss during the interaction with the primary halo .",
    "this does not reduce simply to tidal truncation of the halo inward to the nominal virial radius @xmath32 , which can be described with a simple exponential cut - off @xcite and would not affect the determination of @xmath30 but includes also the effect of repeated tidal shocks which can strip the subhalo much further inside , depending on initial orbit and halo concentration ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the latter effect can reduce the peak circular velocity , which essentially corresponds to a reduction of the enclosed mass at radii of order the scale radius of the nfw halo , which in turn is of order the size of the luminous component of dsphs @xcite .",
    "this reduction can be mild or quite strong depending on the orbit of the subhalo , but also depending on whether or not the inner profile of the subhalo develops a core - like distribution due to baryonic effects , an aspect that has emerged from simulations only recently @xcite .",
    "recent cosmological simulations that can model the combined evolution of the stellar and the dark matter components of dwarf galaxy satellites of milky way - sized halos , but only for a limited set of objects , show that in some cases @xmath30 can be underestimated by up to a factor of 10 with such procedure .",
    "the largest offsets occur when the inner halo distribution is shallower than inferred from the nfw profile @xcite .    to overcome at least partially these effects we exploit the results of @xcite , which are based on cosmological dark matter only simulations .",
    "these simulations of course still miss the direct mapping between radii and masses of the luminous component of the dwarf and those of its halo , and neglect baryonic effects that can change the inner dark matter density slope .",
    "we will provide a discussion of the remaining caveats at the end of the paper . using numerical simulation from the aquarius project , they compute properties , such as the infall mass , of dm suhhalos that are consistent with the dynamics of the brightest dsphs .",
    "they assume that the simulated subhalos are a representative sample for @xmath0cdm simulations . though they worked only with @xmath0cdm simulations to estimate the infall mass ,",
    "studies of subhalo properties carried out in wdm models @xcite suggest that the only important difference in applying this matching procedure would be in the halo concentration parameter since for a _ given _ cdm halo , wdm produces a slightly smaller halo and subhalo concentration than in cdm .    furthermore , the analysis of @xcite is performed only for classical dsphs , which automatically selects fairly high @xmath30 , often above the filtering mass of wdm models ( and always well above the free - streaming mass ) .",
    "this means that such analysis is not expected to be constraining for wdm models since statistically there will be enough subhalos to find @xmath29 pairs that fit the observational constraints .",
    "nevertheless we carry out the matching and subsequent analysis of the star formation history constraints for the wdm models using the infall masses determined by @xcite and report this in the appendix [ mw ] .",
    "for the two other sets of dwarfs , which are the andromeda ones and the ultra - faint dwarfs of the milky way , which are potentially much more constraining because they include objects with much lower present - day estimated stellar and dark halo mass , the only available method is the @xcite s approach , which yields only an approximate estimate of the possible @xmath30 . the main analysis presented in this paper",
    "is based on the latter method .",
    "the bullock model is unable to reproduce the turnover in the concentration - mass relation .",
    "@xcite showed that it can be improved with an extended press - schechter formalism and by requiring the average collapse redshift of halos that survive until today .",
    "@xmath33 is defined as the time when the halo has accreted a fraction @xmath34 of its final mass @xmath35 .",
    "the average growth factor of all the progenitors can be straightforwardly derived : @xmath36 where @xmath37 is the variance for a given @xmath38 dm scenario .",
    "@xmath39 can be inverted to find the collapse redshift .",
    "@xcite showed that the slope of the curves @xmath17 fits results from cdm simulations up to a normalization .",
    "we use here the bolshoi simulation results as quoted by @xcite , where two criteria are presented : the collapse redshift by when the halo accreted into 4% and half of its final mass .",
    "the curves are illustrated in figure [ zcm ] .    to derive the power spectrum and hence the variance @xmath37",
    ", we use the linear transfer functions computed with the ` class ` code for a 2 and 3  kev wdm particle with a fermi - dirac - like angular momentum distribution and the fitting function of @xcite for the 1  kev model . for the cosmological parameters , we use the values obtained by the planck collaboration , i.e. @xmath40 , @xmath41 , @xmath42 , @xmath43 .",
    "once the total mass @xmath30 of each galaxy dwarf is known , we derive the collapse redshift with the curves drawn in figure [ zcm ] for the considered wdm model .      we also develop a separate argument that serves as a self - consistency check on the infall masses derived with the method just described .",
    "this is important since , as we discussed , the mass inference in wdm is uncertain by nature .",
    "we determine the highest subhalo infall masses that we could assign for wdm models from the @xcite s approach and still satisfy the natural constraint that the dynamical friction timescale at infall has to be ( sufficiently ) longer than the time elapsed between infall and the present time .",
    "this condition is quantitatively expressed by requiring that individual dwarf spheroidal or ultra - faint satellites have to end up at present - day galactocentric distances comparable to those at which they are found today relative to the mw or m31 .",
    "note the concentrations assigned in the standard procedures are on the high side of those expected in wdm models , so we can instead start by assigning a typical concentration measured in wdm simulations @xcite , which then yields halos that are 5 to 10 times heavier than in our default method .",
    "this choice also matches well the extrapolation of the halo mass - stellar mass relation , see @xcite , @xcite . by using a dynamical friction time estimate",
    ", we then computed the earliest infall time the galaxy could have , based on their current distance to the mw center.it turns out that from this analysis alone , it is not possible to exclude higher infall masses that would accommodate even a 1  kev model : only for an extreme parameter choice does the dynamical friction time scale become too short once one takes into account also the ralenting effect of tidal mass loss on orbital decay . on the other hand , the infall masses that we obtain based on our default method are within the range of those admitted by the dynamical friction argument so in this sense the self - consistency check is successful . the analysis is presented in appendix [ df ] .",
    "it is only recently that extended star formation histories have been determined , thanks to the high quality color - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) produced by the hubble space telescope ( hst ) .",
    "its instrumental uniformity has allowed @xcite to present the first consistent analysis for more than 40 dwarf galaxies of the local group .",
    "the star formation histories are measured from cmds using the maximum likelihood cmd fitting routine , ` match ` .",
    "not all the cmds reach the oldest main sequence turn - off ( omsto ) but @xcite argue that only the first epoch(s ) of star formation ( sf ) are unconstrained by their method .",
    "this property does not hamper our analysis since we are interested in the latest epochs of sf .    for the ultra - faint dwarfs",
    "whose a cmd analysis has been made , i.e. ursa major , coma berenice , hercules , leo iv , bootes i and canes venatici ii , we use @xcite conclusion : the dwarf galaxies formed 80% and 100% of their stars by @xmath44 ( 12.8 gyr ago ) and @xmath45 ( 11.6 gyr ago ) , respectively .",
    "they have used acs / hst cmds reaching well below the omsto .",
    "we compare their result with our reference @xcite when results are available in the appendix [ sfh ] .",
    "the values are in both methods in favour of an early sf stopping except for cvnii .",
    "we use @xcite results because they are available for a more extensive sample of the ultra - faint dwarfs .    for each dwarf galaxy whose",
    "respective data are available , we compare the collapse redshift with the redshift at which the galaxy formed 90% of its stars , except for the ultra - faint dwarfs where we use the time by when they formed 80% to 100% of their stars as this is more consistent with the available stellar age resolution in the observations .",
    "in this section we report the main results of our work , which concern the interesting constraints on wdm scenarios obtained by using the star formation histories and expected collapse times for the ultra - faint dwarfs ( ufds ) of the milky way . in the appendix [ mw ]",
    "we show also analogous results for 8 bright mw dwarfs and a set of andromeda satellites for which sf histories are available which , as we anticipated , are not providing strong constraints on wdm scenarios .    our analysis is restricted to the ultra - faint dwarfs which have sf histories based on cmd diagrams ; ursa major , coma berenice , hercules , leo iv , bootes i and canes venatici ii .",
    "results are shown in figure [ summarymwufd ] , figure [ summarysansscattermwufd ] and figure [ mwufd8 ] where , for each dwarf , we show the collapse redshift inferred from the infall mass assignment procedure of wolf et al . and the expected time for the bulk of the star formation to have taken place , both with the ( significant ) error bars .",
    "the star formation histories are taken from @xcite and are valid for all dwarfs ; we show it in green at the left side of the figure .",
    "their cmds are nearly indistinguishable , which implies that their star formation histories are largely synchronized , with the agreement estimated at the level of 1 gyr .    for all the dwarfs we show the collapse redshift computed for the 2 and 3  kev wdm scenarios and for the cdm scenario .",
    "the 1  kev wdm scenario , which is already nearly ruled out by other types of constraints ( e.g. the lyman alpha forest ) will be discussed separately in the next section .",
    "note that we use two definitions of collapse redshifts , namely the redshift at which the subhalo has acquired , respectively , 4% and 50% of its final mass , both derived with the methodology described in section [ methods ] , with the infall mass determined via @xcite s approach .",
    "the two cases are shown in figure [ zcm ] for the various scenarios .",
    "while the 50% criterion might seem the most sensible and representative , we note that collapse redshift refers to the halo while the star formation history refers to the baryons .",
    "since it is conceivable that the baryonic component of the galaxy assembles in the inner region of the subhalo , and since even present - day _ field _ dwarf galaxies appear to reside within a few percent of the virial radius of the halo ( e.g. @xcite ) , it is equally reasonable to argue on favour of the @xmath46 criterion as more representative as most of the halo mass can be gathered later than the assembly of the baryonic galaxy .",
    "the error bars correspond to the raw @xmath47 errors on the inferred @xmath30 ( taken from @xcite for the classical mw satellites , based on @xmath24 for all other satellites ) plus the @xmath48 scatter of the collapse redshift at a given infall mass . the spread in concentration , which is what determines",
    "the error in the collapse redshift is that determined from cdm simulations , @xmath49 , as quoted by @xcite .",
    "we assume such scatter to be relevant also for the wdm scenarios , although this would require a systematic numerical study for verification",
    ".    for clarity , figure [ summarysansscattermwufd ] only shows the errors due to the uncertainties in the infall mass inference . in this plot",
    "the errors bars are larger for the 4% formation redshift , because the dependence of collapse redshift on mass turns out to be much steeper using the first definition relative to the second one ( see figure [ zcm ] ) .",
    "-axis , for the different dark matter models and collapse redshift criteria indicated in the upper right corner .",
    "the redshift by when the galaxies formed 80% and all of their stars is despicted left in green and valid for all dwarfs of the sample .",
    "we show both collapse redshifts , by when 4% and 50% of the final mass were formed , in the different warm models , indicated by wdm@xmath38 where @xmath50kev .",
    "we also show the highest infall redshift coming from the dynamical friction criterion discussed in section [ dfric ] for canes venatici ii and ursa major i ; coma berenices , being closer to the galactic center , should have fallen at @xmath51 , which would be out of the frame and hence less relevant for our analysis .",
    "the error bars show the errors on the infall mass inference and the 2-@xmath3 scatter of @xmath33 at a given mass .",
    "the shift in the @xmath52-axis has been arbitrary chosen for illustration purpose.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    -axis , for the different dark matter models indicated in the upper right corner .",
    "the results are reported from figure [ summarymwufd ] .",
    "the error bars only show the errors on the infall mass inference , i.e. without the 2-@xmath3 scatter of @xmath33 at a given mass.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    m@xmath53 for the three dwarfs , following our argument of tidal loss .",
    "the redshift by when the galaxies formed 80% and all of their stars is despicted left in green .",
    "the errors correspond to the 2@xmath3 confidence interval , which corresponds to the errors on the infall mass inference and the 2-@xmath3 scatter of @xmath33 at a given mass .",
    "the constraints coming from the dynamical friction are weaker for light dwarfs , @xmath51 , hence less relevant and not shown here .",
    "the shift in the @xmath52-axis has been arbitrary chosen for illustration purpose.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    among our 6 ufds , our infall mass assignment procedure yields three that are hosted in very light subhalos at infall @xmath54 .",
    "these are hercules , leo iv and bootes i. at that value this would imply that the infall mass is already close to the free - streaming mass of the 2  kev model , @xmath55  m@xmath53 , hence would be strongly suppressed in such a case .",
    "the free - streaming mass of the 3  kev model is slightly lower @xmath56 , but still this model would be marginally consistent .",
    "however , excluding the two models already at this stage would be likely erroneous since these dwarfs , if they are hosted in the smallest halos , are also the most likely to be strongly affected by tides . using cosmological simulations augmented with high - resolution dwarf galaxy models , @xcite have indeed shown that an object like bootes i could originate from tidal stirring of a much more massive disky dwarf falling into the milky way halo at @xmath57 , especially if the halo profile was made core - like in the inner region due to baryonic effects . in those simulations",
    "the progenitor of bootes i could have had an infall mass @xmath58 . therefore , we decide to carry out the analysis using @xmath58 . the results are shown in figure [ mwufd8 ] and are perhaps the strongest in this paper .",
    "while the interpretation of the results , as expected , are clearly different when using the 4% or the 50% criterion , the bottom line is that these three dwarfs alone appear to rule out the 2  kev model and render rather marginal also the 3  kev model ( excluded at @xmath59 for the 50% criterion , not ruled out with the 4 % criterion ) .    for the other three ufds the resulting constraints are less stringent and strongly depend on whether one considers the 4% or the 50% of the infall mass as collapse redshift criterion .",
    "the results are shown in figure 2 and figure 3 .",
    "for the 50% criterion the formation time inferred in the 2 , and even in the 3  kev models is very difficult to reconcile with their sf history even when accounting for errors .",
    "we conclude that the ultra - faint dwarfs almost exclude the 2 and 3  kev models if we use the 50% criterion .",
    "instead if we use the 4% criterion as an upper limit , we observe that the formation time inferred from the sf history and the collapse redshifts can overlap within the errors . we conclude that , while the 4% criterion might not exclude the 2  kev model , it still favours @xmath60kev .    in order to highlight the quantitative difference between possible collapse redshifts for these three dwarfs in cdm and wdm scenarios ,",
    "we show the results for these three dwarfs for the two scenarios in figure [ summarysansscattermwufd ] , without the scatter due to the infall redshift uncertainty caused by the error on the concentration ( this is by construction the same in wdm and cdm scenarios ) . as a comparison , the mean collapse time in the cdm scenario",
    "is shown on the left in brown .",
    "this value is always in agreement with the star formation criterion , but arguably at the borderline .",
    "however , we expect this to depend on the value of the concentration adopted as a reference . since in cdm there is no intrinsic limit on how early a subhalo could collapse in principle one is allowed to postulate that ufds are simply a population of objects biased to form very early , and hence with concentrations systematically higher than average",
    ".    therefore we argue that in the cdm scenario there always exists a combination of parameters that fit the star formation history of the galaxy .",
    "let us assume the dwarf halo to be much lighter at infall , for example @xmath61  @xmath62 .",
    "this would still match the constraints from the wolf et al procedure and would have @xmath63 based on simulations @xcite , which would then yield a collapse redshift @xmath64 for the 4% criterion @xcite .",
    "this is clearly early enough to accommodate any of the sf histories of ufds .",
    "the constraint on infall redshift coming from the dynamical friction timescale is shown in figure 2 and figure 3 for the case in which the ufds were hosted in heavy subhalos before infall , namely @xmath65 .",
    "indeed at such high infall masses the collapse redshift would be at the upper end of the error bars shown in the same figures , making the wdm models marginally consistent with the timing of star formation for the 4% criterion .",
    "the resulting infall redshift in this case is @xmath66 .",
    "this reveals a potential tension with the fact that the same ufds appear to have stopped forming stars at @xmath57 .",
    "it excludes that ram pressure stripping and tides are the cause of the truncation of star formation in these dwarfs , a scenario that explains naturally the star formation histories of classical dsphs @xcite .",
    "note that one can not invoke reionization in such massive subhalos because that would be effective at completely suppressing star formation only for @xmath67 ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "hence this either suggests that such ufds are difficult to reconcile with wdm scenarios in the first place , or that some non - conventional explanation explanation is required , such as a possible assembly bias effect aided by the local ionizing background of the primary galaxy ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "in order to estimate how strong is the constraining power of our method compared to other more conventional ones , we repeat the analysis of the classical and ultra - faint dwarfs of the milky way with the 1  kev model . this is a wdm model that is indeed already nearly excluded by the lyman-@xmath12 forest ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "figures [ mw1kev ] and [ mwufd1kev ] compare the time needed for 90% , and 80 - 100% respectively , of the stars to be formed , with the collapse redshift in a wdm cosmology with a mass of 1  kev . the figures also show the expected collapse redshift in a 2  kev model , allowing for the comparison of the achieved accuracy of the two cosmogonies . here",
    "the error bars show the uncertainties on the mass inference plus the 2-@xmath3 scatter of @xmath33 at fixed mass .",
    "confidence interval , which corresponds to the errors on the infall mass inference and the 2-@xmath3 scatter of @xmath33 at a given mass .",
    "the shift in the @xmath52-axis has been arbitrary chosen for illustration purpose .",
    ", scaledwidth=48.0% ]     confidence interval , which corresponds to the errors on the infall mass inference and the 2-@xmath3 scatter of @xmath33 at a given mass .",
    "the shift in the @xmath52-axis has been arbitrary chosen for illustration purpose.,scaledwidth=48.0% ]    for all dwarfs of the sample , the 1  kev model is clearly excluded at 2-@xmath3 , if based on the 50% criterion . for the 4% criterion , fornax , ursa minor and draco do not contradict the star formation time , but the errors are too large to exclude the 1  kev model at 2-@xmath3 . however , on our whole sample of 11 dwarf galaxies , only the 3 dsphs fornax , ursa minor and draco exhibit significant uncertainties .",
    "we deduce that the 1  kev model is excluded by our approach .",
    "this joins other , independent , constraints on wdm , such as those given by the lyman-@xmath12 forest and the count of satellites .",
    "one of the main weaknesses of our approach is its high sensitivity to the infall mass , which is due to the abrupt turnover in the formation redshift - mass relation in the wdm scenario ( figure 1 ) .",
    "our method is thus as accurate as the determination of the infall mass .",
    "some of the errors associated with the latter have been taken in to account in our analysis , such as the variation due to variation in the assumed subhalo concentration .",
    "we have also considered to some extent the fact that the concentration itself might have been reduced by tidal shocks , making values at the lowest end of those expected based on the mass - concentration relation found in numerical simulations absolutely plausible , a notion that we have implicitly exploited when we assumed a higher infall mass for the 3 faintest ufds .",
    "but there are more caveats .",
    "baryonic effects , completely neglected in our mapping of the infall mass from present - day dwarf properties , may affect the way we associate an infall mass to each galaxy when we follow the wolf et al .",
    "procedure .",
    "@xcite quantified this by adding an individual ratio @xmath68 to the nfw profile and asking how that would modify the mass distribution taking into account the effect of feedback associated with a given @xmath69 assembled in the halo , calibrated with a set of numerical hydrodynamical simulations of dwarf galaxy formation .",
    "their corrected profile generally associates galaxies to higher infall masses than the standard nfw profile owing to the same effect that we have considered for the tidal shock argument  the central density is reduced which corresponds effectively to lowering the concentration of the halo and therefore increasing the value of @xmath30 that can be assigned .",
    "we estimate that on average the assigned infall mass would increase by a factor of 10 , although large fluctuations can be expected on a case - by - case basis as there is not a simple linear relation between the flattening of the profile and other properties of the dwarfs such as the present - day stellar - to - halo mass . in any case",
    "the effect goes in the direction of allowing an earlier collapse redshift in the wdm models . as an example , we analyse the borderline cases of some mw classical dsphs : sculptor would be hosted by a subhalo having an infall mass of @xmath70 and ursa minor by a subhalo of @xmath71 .",
    "even the formation redshift for the 50% criterion is now not problematic , becoming 2.39 in the 2  kev model , which is early enough , compared to the redshift when the galaxy formed 90% of its stars , which is just below 2 .",
    "heavy halos fit the sfhs more easily and hence make the cdm and wdm scenarios less distinguishable by our method .    for the ufds",
    ", we expect the results of the 50% criterion to not change since the difference with the time of the onset of sf , @xmath72 , is too large anyway ( figure [ zcm ] ) . on the contrary , if we choose the 4% criterion , the 2  kev model easily admits now @xmath73 for a subhalo infall mass of @xmath74 .",
    "however , considering that the scatter in @xmath33 is large even in the case of halos of 10@xmath75 , the results of @xcite do not actually weaken much our analysis for the three ufds with largest inferred infall masses , ursa major , coma berenice and canes venatici ii , while could potentially weaken the conclusions for the three ufds with the lowest infall mass @xmath76 , hercules , leo iv and bootes i. however for these we have already assumed an infall mass ten times higher than the standard procedure a la wolf et al . would have suggested so we do not expect significant changes in our conclusions .",
    "the extended press - schechter approach assumes the linear perturbation growth , which is thought to be able to reproduce the statistical properties of structure formation .",
    "the full non - linear regime would , however , add to the scatter between @xmath33 and @xmath30 .",
    "one could opt to derive the average growth factor from the @xcite theory .",
    "wdm numerical simulations would be needed ultimately , although once again pure dark matter simulations will not be conclusive as they are not in the cdm case ( and a trivial rescaling of the baryonic effects based on the cdm simulations with hydrodynamics is also potentially flawed since small halos grow differently and would have not only a different timing for the onset of star formation but also possibly a different amount and pattern of star formation over time , see e.g. @xcite .",
    "there are also some uncertainties due to the fact that our method is using an inhomogeneous set of data with different intrinsic errors and systematics , while ideally , a consistent way of deducing the star formation should be used for the whole sample .    finally , there are uncertainties about the nature of the warm particle itself , which ultimately implies the simple - minded notion according to which wdm is just cdm with a truncation of the power at some small enough scale is only one of the many possible realizations .",
    "the problem indeed is that bounds from structure formation actually constrain the free - streaming length , rather than the `` raw '' mass of the particle .",
    "most numerical simulations of structure formation are based on the assumption that warm dm particles are produced via a mechanism that gives them a thermal spectrum .",
    "if this assumption does not hold anymore , it might become difficult to draw general conclusions .",
    "one example is the resonant thermal mechanism , which can be seen as a superposition of a wdm component and a non - thermal cold component . in the latter case",
    "the particle could have a lower rest - mass energy than in the standard thermal relic wdm scenario while still being consistent with the lymann @xmath12 forest constraints @xcite .",
    "only recent numerical simulations have thoroughly studied structure formation with resonantly - produced sterile neutrinos @xcite .",
    "we have introduced a new , simple method to exclude wdm scenarios via the timing of the onset of star formation in the oldest dsph and ultra - faint galaxy satellites in the lg .",
    "we exclude at 2-@xmath3 a particle of 1  kev , consistently with other results . in the 2 and 3  kev models ,",
    "large uncertainties weaken our results but three ufds still exclude the 2  kev model to @xmath59 and the 3  kev model to @xmath77 .",
    "the simplicity of our method suggests that , with better sf data and more robust theoretical predictions of collapse times in wdm directly coming from simulations , it can potentially be critical in excluding or admitting wdm models in the critical range of a few kevs .",
    "it offer clues of what to look for in future numerical hydro - simulations of satellite galaxy formation in the wdm scenario .",
    "improving the time resolution in the star formation histories of lg dsphs , as well as increasing the number of ufds with sf histories measured at least at the same level of time resolution of the 6 used in this paper , will allow to increase the constraining power of our analysis by reducing the errors .",
    "in passing we note that we have not included in our samples the distant dsphs cetus and tucana as well as the transition dwarfs , such as phoenix and lgs3 , for which accurate determinations of the sf histories exist ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "this is because these are all bright dwarfs that would yield weak constraints as the classical dsphs as their infall masses will inevitably be predicted to be in the high end of the distribution .",
    "as we discussed , biases , and not just errors might be hidden behind our determination of the infall mass as presented in this paper . in order to gain accuracy in the infall mass determination",
    "the analysis could be repeated adopting dark matter density profiles that take into account the effects of baryonic physics , such as proposed by brook & di cintio ( 2014 ) .",
    "this however requires that such new profile models be calibrated with a variety of baryonic feedback recipes rather than with only specific recipes , which will eventually be accomplished . in the meantime",
    "we believe our analysis based on nfw profiles for dark matter subhalos is able to produce a simple proof - of - concept description of the new constraining method proposed in this paper .",
    "anderhalden , d. , schneider , a. , macci , a. v. , diemand , j. , bertone , g. 2013 , jcap , aparicio , a , hidalgo , s. , l. , skillman , evan , cassisi , s. , mayer , l. , navarro , j. ; cole , a. , gallart , c. , monelli , m. , weisz , d. , bernard , e. , dolphin , a. , stetson , p. 2016 arxiv:1604.03307 behroozi , p. s. , wechsler , r. h. , conroy , c. 2013 , apj , 770 , 57 bernard , e. j. , gallart , c. , monelli , m. , aparicio , a. , cassisi , s. , skillman , e. d. , stetson , p. b. , cole , a. a. , drozdovsky , i. , hidalgo , s. l. , mateo , m. , tolstoy , e. 2008 , apj , 678l , 21 bertone , g. , hooper , d. , silk , j. 2005 , phr , 405 , 279 binney , j. , gerhard , o. , silk , j. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 471 bode , p. , ostriker , j. p. , turok , n. 2001 , apj , 556 , 93 boylan - kolchin , m. , bullock , j. s. , kaplinghat , m. 2011 mnras .",
    "415 , l40 boylan - kolchin , m. , bullock , j. s. , kaplinghat , m. 2012 mnras , 422 , 1203 bozek , b. , boylan - kolchin , m. , horiuchi , s. , garrison - kimmel , s. , abazajian k. , bullock , j. s. 2016 , mnras , tmp , 472 brook , c. b. , di cintio , a. 2014 , mnras , 441 , 2986 brooks , a. m. , zolotov , a. 2014 apj , 786 , 87 brown , t. m. , tumlinson , j. , geha , m. , kirby , e. n. , vandenberg , d. a. , muoz , r. r. , kalirai , j. s. , simon , j. d. , avila , r. j. , guhathakurta , p. , renzini , a. , ferguson , h. c. 2012 , apj , 753l , 21 brown , t. m. , tumlinson , j. , geha , m. , kirby , e. , van den berg , d. a. , kalirai , j. s. , simon , j.d . , avila , r. j. , munoz , r. r. , guhathakurt , p. , renzini , a. , ferguson h. c. , vargas , l. c. , gennaro , m. 2014 , mmsai , 85 , 493 bullock , j. s. , kravtsov , a. v. , weinberg , d. h. 2001 , apj , 548 , 33 coln , p. , avila - reese , v. , & valenzuela , o. 2000 , apj , 542 , 622 coln , p. , avila - reese , v. , gonzlez - samaniego , a. , velzquez , h. 2015 , apj , 803 , 28 colpi , m. , mayer , l. , governato , f. , 1999 , apj , 525 , 720 dalcanton , j. j. , hogan , c. j. 2000 , phrvd , 62 , 063511 dalcanton , j. j. , hogan , c. j. 2001 , apj , 561 , 35 di cintio , a , brook , c. b. , macci , a. v. , stinson , g. s. , knebe , a. , dutton , a. a. , wadsley , j. 2014 , mnras 437 , 415 drewes , m. 2013 , ijmpe , 2230019 fry , a. b. , governato , f. , pontzen , a. , quinn , t. , tremmel , m. , anderson , l. , menon , h. , brooks , a. m. , wadsley , j. 2015 , mnras , 452 , 1468 gallart , c. , monelli , m. , mayer , l. , aparicio , a. , battaglia , g. , bernard , e. j. , cassisi , s. , cole , a. a. , dolphin , a. e. , drozdovsky , i. , hidalgo , s. l. , navarro , j. f. , salvadori , s. , skillman , e. d. , stetson , p. b. , weisz , d. r. 2015 , apj , 811l , 18 gorbunov , d. , khmelnitsky , a. , rubakov , v. 2008 , jhep , 12 , 55 governato , f. ; mayer , l. ; wadsley , j. ; gardner , j. p. ; willman , beth ; hayashi , e. ; quinn , t. ; stadel , j. ; lake , g. 2004 , apj , 607 , 688 governato , f. , brook , c. , mayer , l. , brooks , a. , rhee , g. , wadsley , j. , jonsson , p. , willman , b. , stinson , g. , quinn , t. , madau , p. 2010",
    ", nature , 463 , 203 governato , f. , weisz , d. , pontzen , a. , loebman , s. , reed , d. , brooks , a. m. , behroozi , p. , christensen , c. , madau , p. , mayer , l. , shen , s. , walker , m. , quinn , t. , keller , b. w.,wadsley , j. 2015 , mnras , 448 , 792 kaurov , a. a. , hooper , d. , gnedin , n. y. 2015 , arxiv:1512.00526 kazantzidis , s. , mayer , l. , mastropietro , c. , diemand , j. , stadel , j. , moore , b. 2004 , apj , 608 , 663k kazantzidis , s. , okas , e. l. , callegari , s. , mayer , l. , moustakas , l. a. 2011 , apj , 726 , 98 kazantzidis , s. , okas , e. l. , mayer , l. 2013 , apj , 764l , 29k kennedy , r. , frenk , c. , cole , s. , benson , a. 2014 , mnras , 442 , 2487 klypin , a. , karachentsev , i. , makarov , d. , nasonova , o.2015 , mnras , 454 , 1798 lacey , c. , cole , s. 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 lovell , m. r. , frenk , c. s. , eke , v. r. , jenkins , a. , gao , l. , theuns , t. 2014 , mnras , 439 , 300 macci , a. v. , dutton , a. a. , van den bosch , f. c. 2008 , mnras , 391 , 1940 madau , p. , weisz , d. r. , conroy , c. 2014 , apj , 790l , 17 mateo , m. 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435 mayer , l. , governato , f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , lake , g. 2001 , apj , 559 , 754 mayer , l. , mastropietro , c. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , moore , b. 2006 , mnras , 369 , 1021 mayer , l. 2010 , adast , 2010e , 25 mcconnachie , a.w .",
    "2012 , aj , 144 , 4 m. monelli , c. gallart , s.l .",
    "hidalgo , a. aparicio , e.d .",
    "skillman , a.a .",
    "cole , d.r .",
    "weisz , l. mayer , e.j .",
    "bernard , s. cassisi , a.e .",
    "dolphin , i. drozdovsky , p.b .",
    "stetson 2010 , apj , 722 , 1864 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , white , s. d. m. 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 oh , s .- h . , hunter , d. a. , brinks , e. , elmegreen , b. g. , schruba , a. , walter , f. , rupen , m. p. , young , l. m. , simpson , c. e. , johnson , m. c. , herrmann , k. a. , ficut - vicas , d. , cigan , p. ; heesen , v. , ashley , t. , zhang , h .- x .",
    "2015 , aj , 149 , 180 press , w. h , schechter , p. 1974 , apj , 187 , 425 pontzen , a. , governato , f. 2012 , mnras , 421 , 3464 pryor , c. , kormendy , j. 1990 , aj , 100 , 127 read , j. i. , gilmore , g. 2003 , mnras , 339 , 949 sawala , t. , scannapieco , c. , maio , u. , white , s. 2010 , mnras , 402 , 1599 schneider , a. 2015 , mnras , 451 , 3117 schneider , a. , smith , r. e. , macci , a. v. , moore , b. 2012 , mnras , 424 , 684 schneider , a. , smith , r. e. , reed , d. 2013 , mnras , 433 , 1573 shen , s. , madau , p. , conroy , c. , governato , f. , mayer , l. 2014 , apj , 792 , 99 sommer - larsen , j. , dolgov , a. 2001 , aj , 551 , 608 susa , h. , umemura , m. 2004 , apj , 600 , 1 taffoni , g. , mayer , l. , colpi , m. , governato , f. 2003 , mnras , 341 , 434 teyssier , r. , pontzen , a. , dubois , y. , read , j. i. 2013 , mnras , 429 , 3068 tomozeiu , m. , mayer , l. , quinn , t. 2016 , arxiv:1605.00004 t tomozeiu , m. , mayer , l. , quinn , t. 2016 , apj , 818 , 193 van den bosch , f. c. , jiang , f. , hearin , a. , campbell , d. , watson , d. , padmanabhan , n. 2013 mnras , 445 , 1713 viel , m. , becker , g. d. , bolton , j. s. , haehnelt , m. g. , a. 2013 , phrvd , 88 , 3502 walker , m. g. , mateo , m. , olszewski , e. w. , pearrubia , j. , wyn evans , n. , gilmore , g. 2009 , apj , 704 , 1274 weinberg , d. h. , bullock , j. s. , governato , f. , kuzio de naray , r. , peter , a. h. g. 2015 , pnas , 112 , 12249 weisz , d. r. , dolphin , a. e. , skillman , e. d. , holtzman , j. , gilbert , k. m. , dalcanton , j. j. , williams , b. f. 2014 , apj , 789 , 147 weisz , d. r. , skillman , e. d. , hidalgo , s. l. , monelli , m. , dolphin , a. e. , mcconnachie , a. , bernard , e. j. , gallart , c. , aparicio , a. , boylan - kolchin , m. , cassisi , s. , cole , a. a. , ferguson , h. c. , irwin , m. , martin , n. f. , mayer , l. , mcquinn , k. b. w. , navarro , j. f. , stetson , p. b. 2014 , apj , 789 , 24 wheeler , c. ; oorbe , j. , bullock , j. s. , boylan - kolchin , m. , elbert , o. d. ; garrison - kimmel , s. , hopkins , p. f. , kere , d. 2015 , mnras , 453 , 1305 wolf , j. , martinez , g. d. , bullock , j. s. , kaplinghat , m. , geha , m. , muoz , r. r. , simon , j. d. , avedo , f. f. 2010 , mnras , 406 , 1220 zhao , d. h. , jing y.p . , mo , h. j. , brner , g. 2009 , apj , 707 , 354 zolotov , a. , brook , a. m. , willman , b. , governato , f. , pontzen , a. , christensen , c. , dekel , .",
    "a. , quinn , t. , shen , s. , wadsley , j. 2012 , ap , 761 , 71"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> @xmath0-warm dark matter ( @xmath0wdm ) has been proposed as alternative scenario to @xmath0 cold dark matter ( @xmath0cdm ) , motivated by discrepancies at the scale of dwarf galaxies , with less small - scale power and realized by collisionless particles with energies in the range @xmath1  kev . </S>",
    "<S> we present a new approach to constrain the viability of such wdm models using star formation histories of the dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsphs ) in the local group . </S>",
    "<S> we compare their high time - resolution star formation histories ( sfhs ) obtained with hst - based color magnitude diagrams with the range of possible collapse redshifts of their dark matter halos expected in cdm and in different wdm scenarios . </S>",
    "<S> the collapse redshift is inferred after determining a plausible infall mass of the subhalo . </S>",
    "<S> this is based on the current mass of individual dwarf inferred from stellar kinematics combined with results of cosmological simulations providing information on the evolution of the subhalo . </S>",
    "<S> since wdm subhalos close to the filtering mass scale form significantly later than cdm , we show that they are in the first place difficult to reconcile with a truncation of star formation occurring as early as @xmath2 in a large fraction of dsphs . </S>",
    "<S> the ultra - faint dwarfs ( ufds ) provide the most stringent constraints . using 6 ufds with the best determination of the sfhs </S>",
    "<S> , we show that we can exclude a 1  kev warm particle to a 2-@xmath3 confidence interval consistently with other methods reported in the literature . for some objects </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath4  kev model is also excluded . excluding the @xmath5  kev model is possible only for two of the ufds at a 2-@xmath3 level . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the various caveats of the method , most notably the low number of dwarfs with accurately determined star formation histories and the uncertainties in the determination of the infall mass of the subhalos . </S>",
    "<S> the latter , which is critical to compute collapse redshifts may increase if we consider the flattening of the dark matter profile due to feedback from star formation and possibly enhanced tidal mass . </S>",
    "<S> our preliminary analysis serves as a pathfinder for future investigations that will combine upcoming accurate sfhs for many more local dwarfs with direct analysis of wdm cosmological simulations with baryons . </S>"
  ]
}