{
  "article_text": [
    "the fundamental physical processes which governs the evolution of electron flows with velocity gradient are of great interest in wide range of research areas in astrophysical and laboratory contexts . in astrophysical scenario , the relativistic jets which are observed across wide range of astrophysical scales from micro - quasars to gamma ray bursts ( grbs ) , supernovas etc .",
    ", @xcite would have sheared flow of electrons . in laser plasma experiments also , there are many situations where the sheared electron flow configuration is inevitable . for instance experiments on fast - ignition scheme of laser - driven inertial confinement fusion involve electron beam propagation inside a plasma which would invariably result in a sheared configuration of electron flow .",
    "when a high intensity laser irradiates a solid surface and/or a compressed plasma it generates electron beam at the critical density surface of the plasma by the wave breaking mechanism @xcite .",
    "this beam typically propagates inside the high density region of the plasma exciting reverse shielding background electron currents . the forward and",
    "reverse currents spatially separate by weibel instability leading to a sheared electron flow configuration .",
    "however , since the transverse extent of the beam is finite compared to the plasma width , being commensurate with the laser focal spot , the sheared configuration of electron flow automatically exists between the beam and the background stationary electrons at the edge of the propagating beam @xcite even before weibel destabilization process .",
    "in such a scenario the kelvin - helmholtz ( kh ) instability develops immediately at the edge of the beam and does not require a weibel destabilization process to preempt it .    the kh instability is a well known instability and has been widely studied in the context of hydrodynamic fluid .",
    "however , the sheared - electron velocity flow encountered in laboratory and astrophysical cases , mentioned above , differs from the hydrodynamic fluid flows in many respects .",
    "for instance , the sheared - flow configuration of electron fluid invariably has currents and sheared current flows associated with it .",
    "consequently , the evolution of the magnetic field associated with it becomes an integral part of the dynamics .",
    "development of charge imbalance is another aspect in the evolution .",
    "though the equilibrium charge balance is provided by the neutralizing static background of electrons , compressible electron flow during evolution can easily lead to charge imbalance as the ions would not respond at fast electron time scale phenomena .",
    "this would lead to electrostatic field generation which has added influence in the dynamics .",
    "lastly , the flow of electrons in most cases is relativistic .",
    "thus , to summarize the kh instability in this case has additional effects due to the presence of electromagnetic features , compressibility leading to electrostatic fields , relativistic effects etc .",
    "in the non -relativistic limit the electromagnetic effects on kh instability in the context of sheared electron flows have been investigated in detail by employing the electron magnetohydrodynamic ( emhd ) model @xcite .",
    "this model neglects the displacement currents and space charge effects and assumes stationary ions which provide the neutralizing background .",
    "the relativistic effects on k - h instability in compressible neutral hydrodynamic fluid has been studied by bodo @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "recently,@xcite sundar @xmath0 have incorporated relativistic effects on sheared - electron flows .",
    "this study points out crucial role of shear on the relativistic mass factor due to sheared velocity configuration .",
    "the effect due to displacement current was retained in the relativistic regime .",
    "it was , however , shown that for the weakly relativistic case the effects due to displacement current were negligible .",
    "however , in these studies , the space charge effects which may arise when compressibility of the electron fluid are present , have not been incorporated .",
    "the present article aims at exploring these features using a pic simulation .",
    "we have carried out a 2.5d relativistic electromagnetic particle - in - cell simulations to study the electron shear flow instability in both cases of weak and strong relativistic flows . by 2.5d",
    "we mean that all three components of the fields are taken into consideration , however , their spatial variations are confined in 2-d plane only .",
    "when the flow is weakly relativistic , we observe the development of electromagnetic kh instability at the location of shear which ultimately develops into vortices .",
    "these vortices merge subsequently forming longer scales , in conformity with the inverse cascade phenomena observed in typical 2-d fluid systems .",
    "the density perturbations are observed to be weak in this case .",
    "the results in this case are thus very similar to the predictions of the emhd fluid behaviour .",
    "when the relativistic effects are mild ( and not weak ) , the kh instability occurs at a slower time scales .",
    "the kh vortices are observed initially , which are soon overwhelmed by compressibility effects which introduce magnetized non - linear electrostatic oscillations ( non - linear upper hybrid oscillations ) in plasma transverse to flow . in strongly relativistic regime",
    "the electrostatic oscillations dominate right from the very beginning .",
    "the amplitude of the oscillations increases leading to phenomena of wave breaking . in the nonlinear regime , the spectra",
    "is observed to be broad in all the three cases which implies turbulence .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section",
    "ii , we describe our simulation methodology . the results of pic simulations and their implications are presented in section iii .",
    "it is seen that in strong relativistic case compressibility effects seem to dominate resulting in electrostatic oscillations transverse to the flow .",
    "these electrostatic oscillations are understood on the basis of a simplified one dimensional model in section iv .",
    "section v contains the description of the power spectrum of the fields in the nonlinear regime .",
    "section vi contains the summary and conclusions .",
    "we choose the electron to have a flow velocity along @xmath1 with a following sheared flow configuration as equilibrium @xmath2-v_{0 } ,     \\label{velocity}\\ ] ] where @xmath3 is width of shear layer , @xmath4 is total length of simulation box in transverse direction of flow and @xmath5 is the maximum amplitude of the flow velocity .",
    "this flow structure is shown schematically in fig .",
    "[ fig : sc ] .",
    "the electron flow is responsible for current and produces an equilibrium magnetic field in the @xmath6 direction . during the simulations ,",
    "ions are kept at rest and merely provide for the neutralizing background . in order to satisfy the condition for equilibrium force balance on electrons ,",
    "there is a need to displace the electrons and ions slightly in space , so that an equilibrium electric field @xmath7 gets created .",
    "this is chosen in such a fashion so as to satisfy the condition of @xmath8 this ensures that the lorentz force on electrons vanishes everywhere .",
    "this clearly indicates the necessity for having an equilibrium electric field along @xmath9 .",
    "the electron and ion charges are thus displaced in an appropriate fashion so as to satisfy the gauss s law @xmath10 here @xmath11 and @xmath12 are unperturbed ion and electron number densities respectively in equilibrium , e is charge of electron and c is speed of light . to maintain equilibrium in system",
    "we have thus arranged the electron particle number density according to following relationship @xcite , @xmath13 the ions are distributed uniformly with a density @xmath11 of @xmath14@xmath15 and @xmath12 is adjusted as per eq .",
    "( [ electron_den ] ) .",
    "the area of the simulation box @xmath16 is chosen to be @xmath17 @xmath18 corresponding to @xmath19 cells ; where @xmath20 is electron plasma frequency corresponding the uniform plasma at the background density of ions . also , @xmath21 cm is the skin depth .",
    "we have used 128 particles per cell for both ion and electron in our simulation . to resolve the underlying physics at the scale which is smaller than the skin depth ,",
    "we have chosen a grid size of 0.01@xmath22 . the time step @xmath23 , decided by the courant condition , is 0.035 femtosecond .",
    "we have considered four different set of parameters for our investigation . in all cases , velocity profile of electron",
    "is assigned by eq .",
    "[ velocity ] .",
    "for the first case , we choose the flow velocity of electron in the weakly relativistic regime and chose the shear width to be less than the plasma skin depth .",
    "we would refer this as case ( a ) which has the following parameters @xmath24 , @xmath25 @xmath26 .",
    "this is the weakly relativistic case where the emhd fluid description is supposed to work pretty well .",
    "we consider then in case ( b ) , the dependence of kh instability on shear width .",
    "we do this by changing the value of shear width in comparison to skin depth . as per the emhd description",
    "the growth rate decreases when the shear width is shallow compared to the skin depth .",
    "we illustrate this by specifically choosing a value of @xmath27 @xmath26 . in the third and fourth cases ( c ) and ( d ) a mild and strong relativistic limit with parameters @xmath28 , @xmath25 @xmath26 and @xmath29 , @xmath25 @xmath26",
    "are respectively considered .",
    "in the three subsections we discuss the results of ( i ) weakly relativistic ( ii ) mild relativistic ( iii ) strong relativistic cases .      we choose a the value of @xmath30 for electron velocity to study the weakly relativistic case .",
    "we observe a destabilization of the sheared flow configuration .",
    "the instability is tracked by plotting the evolution of the perturbed kinetic energy(pke ) of the electrons in the system .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : kh1_gr ] .",
    "the initial steep rise is due to numerical noise .",
    "thereafter , the instability grows from the noise spectrum . since",
    ", the noise would lack the exact eigen mode structure of any particular mode , initially a combination of unstable modes start growing . subsequently , as the mode with fastest growth dominates a linear rise in the plot of pke can be clearly observed .",
    "it should be noted that evolution follows the emhd fluid predictions of the growth rate being higher for the case ( a ) when the shear width is sharper than the skin depth . in case ( b )",
    "the growth is observed to be small and the saturation also occurs quite fast .    for a closer look at the instability development the color contour plot of the evolution of magnetic field ( fig .",
    "[ fig : mag1 ] ) , vorticity ( fig .",
    "[ fig : vortices ] ) and the two components of electric field ( fig .",
    "[ fig : elec1 ] ) has been shown at various times . from ( fig .",
    "[ fig : mag1 ] ) magnetic field evolution , one can observe that the magnetic perturbations start at the location where velocity shear is maximum .",
    "these perturbations grow forming magnetic vortices which subsequently merge to form bigger structures .",
    "the merging process of magnetic field is along expected lines of 2-d inverse cascade emhd depiction of the problem .",
    "the fluid vorticity also shows similar traits , however , at later times @xmath31 ( in normalized units ) the long scale vorticities show signs of disintegration .",
    "the two components of electric fields also show emergence of kh structures and merging .",
    "a comparison of normalized amplitudes of electric and magnetic field shows that the electric fields are much weaker than the magnetic fields .",
    "we also show the plot of electron density in the nonlinear regime of the kh instability at @xmath32 in fig .",
    "[ fig : kh1_density ] .",
    "we observe that the density also acquires distinct structures of kh like vortices in the shear region .",
    "the density perturbations in the weakly relativistic case is observed to be weak .",
    "the maximum observed value of @xmath33 . on the other hand we would see in the strongly relativistic case",
    "this is as large as @xmath34 to @xmath35 .",
    "this suggests that in the weakly relativistic regime the instability essentially has an electrostatic character .      in the mild relativistic case where @xmath36 , the kh is observed to be considerably weak .",
    "the vorticity plots shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : vor2 ] shows an initial tendency towards developing the kh rolls .",
    "the kh rolls in this case are fewer in number . for case(a )",
    "they were @xmath37 here they are only around @xmath38 .",
    "this again suggests that the growth rate for relativistic case gets confined towards longer scale as per the predictions of emhd model .",
    "the fluid analysis carried out earlier also suggests that the cut off wavenumber of the kh moves towards longer scales in mildly relativistic cases .",
    "the kh rolls are observed to be very soon overwhelmed by certain oscillations transverse to the flow .",
    "the oscillations transverse to the flow are also clearly evident in the electron density plots of fig .",
    "[ fig : elec2 ] .",
    "the density oscillations in this case are pretty strong with @xmath39 . the kh suppression and the appearance of these upper electrostatic oscillations",
    "can be understood as follows .",
    "as the relativistic effect increases the @xmath40 force becomes dominating .",
    "thus a small perturbed magnetic field @xmath41 , induces a strong @xmath42 force along @xmath43 , which is responsible for the upper hybrid electrostatic oscillations .",
    "we now choose @xmath44 for understanding the strongly relativistic case .",
    "the time evolution of pke in this case shows the linear growth of the instability .",
    "however , the instability is dominated by the upper hybrid electrostatic oscillations which are observed right from the very beginning .",
    "thus the development of the rolls typical of the kh instability are not very clearly evident in this case . representing the initial distribution of flowing and the static electrons by different colors ( red and blue respectively ) we show the snapshots of their displacement in space in fig .",
    "[ fig : par9 ] .",
    "the electron compressibility is clearly evident , so much so and white regions devoid of electrons are created ( snapshot at @xmath45 ) .",
    "the electric fields due to background ions , however , pull these electrons back which results in a large amplitude excitation of nonlinear upper hybrid electrostatic plasma oscillations .",
    "these oscillations are discussed in detail in the next section .    a comparative value of the growth rate obtained from the slope of the evolution of pke in the table below for all the cases studied by us .    *",
    "table i * + the maximum growth rate ( @xmath46 ) of k - h instability evaluated from slope of perturbed kinetic energy +    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     the upper hybrid frequency obtained from various method are match very well and affirm the existence of upper hybrid mode in sheared electron flow .",
    "the nonlinear regime of the simulation shows evidence of turbulence generation for both weak and strong relativistic cases .",
    "we have plotted the spectra of magnetic and electric fields as a function of @xmath47 defined by the following relationship .",
    "@xmath48    where @xmath49 is one dimensional longitudinal energy spectra of the field f , where f is the x- dependent longitudinal fourier transform of any of the electric and magnetic fields ( represented by @xmath16 here ) given by @xmath50 we observe that in both strong and weak relativistic cases the spectra is broad and has a power law behaviuor ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : spectra3 ] , fig .",
    "[ fig : spectrab1 ] and fig .",
    "[ fig : spectrae1 ] ) .",
    "the spectral scaling index is found to be close to @xmath51 . in the strong relativistic case , we observe that the power law extends towards the longer wavelength region of @xmath52 whereas this is not so for the weak relativistic case .",
    "it appears that it is easier to generate longer scales in the strongly relativistic case .",
    "a detailed pic simulation was carried out to study the instability of sheared relativistic electrons against a background of neutralizing ions .",
    "our studies on weakly relativistic case show good agreement with the observations based on emhd fluid approximation .",
    "for instance the observation of instability getting driven when the shear scale is sharper than the skin depth , the development of kh vortices in the shear region which ultimately merge to form longer structures etc .",
    ", are all in conformity of the fluid emhd theory . in the strong relativistic case",
    "the compressibility effects are dominant and one observes a characteristic electrostatic oscillations transverse to the flow direction .",
    "this overwhelms the kh in the system .",
    "the nonlinear regime in all cases shows a broad power spectra of magnetic field which is indicative of turbulence .",
    "10 a.thiessen.g.b.zimmerman j.h.nuckolls , l.wood , , 139 ( 1972 ) .",
    "yosuke mizuno , philip e. hardee , and ken - ichi nishikawa , , 167 ( 2014 )",
    ". ken - ichi nishikawa _",
    "et al . _ , , 1535 ( 2013 ) .",
    "r. a. chevalier , j. m. blondin , and r. t. emmering , , 118 ( 1992 ) . g.  malka and j.  l. miquel , , 75 ( 1996 ) .",
    "a.  modena , , 606 ( 1995 ) .",
    "k.  b. wharton , s.  p. hatchett , s.  c. wilks , m.  h. key , j.  d. moody , v.  yanovsky , a.  a. offenberger , b.  a. hammel , m.  d. perry , and c.  joshi , , 822 ( 1998 ) .",
    "chandrasekhar shukla , amita das and kartik patel , ( 2015 ) .",
    "erich  s. weibel , , 83 ( 1959 ) .",
    "burton  d. fried , , 337 ( 1959 ) .",
    "y. sentoku , k. mima , p. kaw , and k. nishikawa , , 155001 ( 2003 ) .",
    "p. g. drazin and w. h. reid , ( cambridge university press , cambridge , 1982 ) .",
    "g. bodo , a. mignone , and r. rosner , , 036304 ( 2004 ) .",
    "m. tabak , , 1626 ( 1994 ) .",
    "k. a. tanaka , r. kodama , k. mima , y. kitagawa , h. fujita , n. miyanaga , k. nagai , t. norimatsu , t. sato , y. sentoku , k. shigemori , a. sunahara , t. shozaki , m. tanpo , s. tohyama , t. yabuuchi , j. zheng , t. yamanaka , p. a. norreys , r. evanse , m. zepf , k. krushelnic , a. dangor , r. stephens , s. hatchett , m. tabak , and r. turner , , 1925 ( 2003 ) .",
    "s. v. bulanov , f. pegoraro , and a. s. sakharov , , 2499 ( 1992 ) .",
    "a. das , , a531 ( 1999 ) .",
    "a. das and p. kaw , , 4518 ( 2001 ) .",
    "d. jovanovic and f. pegoraro , , 889 ( 2000 ) .",
    "s. sundar and a. das , , 022101 ( 2010 ) .",
    "sita sundar , amita das , and predhiman kaw , 052105 ( 2012 ) .",
    "pritchett , p. l. , and f. v. coroniti , , 168 ( 1984 ) .                   for case ( c )",
    "that shows the roll in density at time @xmath53=3.5 at shear layer ( highlighted by red box ) which is signature of kh instability . the compression and rare faction in density can be also seen . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we carry out particle - in - cell ( pic ) simulations to study the instabilities associated with a 2-d sheared electron flow configuration against a neutralizing background of ions . both weak and strong </S>",
    "<S> relativistic flow velocities are considered . in the weakly relativistic case , we observe the development of electromagnetic kelvin helmholtz instability with similar characteristics as that predicted by the electron magnetohydrodynamic ( emhd ) model . on other hand , in strong relativistic case the compressibility effects of electron fluid dominate and introduce upper hybrid electrostatic oscillations transverse to the flow which are very distinct from emhd fluid behaviour . in the nonlinear regime , </S>",
    "<S> both weak and strong relativistic cases lead to turbulence with broad power law spectrum . </S>"
  ]
}