{
  "article_text": [
    "magnetohydrodynamic ( mhd ) turbulence is ubiquitous in astrophysical environments ( evidence from electron densities : @xcite , from spectral lines : @xcite and from synchrotron fluctuations : @xcite , see also @xcite for reviews ) .",
    "it plays a critical role for key astrophysical processes , such as star formation , acceleration and propagation of cosmic rays , heat transport , and magnetic reconnection ( see @xcite ) .",
    "a significant progress has been achieved in understanding the theory of mhd turbulence ( e.g. , @xcite , see also @xcite for recent reviews ) , and its implications , in particular , the physics of turbulent reconnection ( e.g. , @xcite for a recent review ) . however , the theory of mhd turbulence is a developing field with many outstanding questions .",
    "for instance , even the spectral slope of the alfvnic turbulence is a subject of strong debates ( e.g. , see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "the changes of the spectral slope with the physical conditions in plasmas are mostly unknown quantities that is difficult to study with the present time numerical resolutions .",
    "studies of those using observations are really advantageous .",
    "the seminal theoretical work of @xcite predicted that the spectrum of mhd turbulence follows the kolmogorov spectrum with @xmath5 in terms of 3-dimensional ( 3d ) spectrum .",
    "however , the spectrum of mhd turbulence may become different in some astrophysical environments .",
    "for example , the magnetic spectrum in terms of 3d spectrum is claimed to be @xmath6 in the case of viscosity - damped turbulence when the viscosity to resistivity ratio is much larger than 1 ( @xcite ) .",
    "the recovery of the spectral index of magnetic turbulence is the focus of this paper .",
    "in addition , spectra of both density and velocity are also important to reveal information on mhd turbulence .",
    "the former can be obtained directly from the column density maps ( e.g. , @xcite ) . however , the study of the latter is relatively complex .",
    "the new techniques to study the velocity spectrum , which are termed velocity channel analysis ( vca ) and velocity coordinate spectrum ( vcs ) , have been proposed ( @xcite ) , and successfully testified and applied to observations ( @xcite ) .",
    "the overall spectral shape and spectral index of mhd turbulence can provide very valuable information , such as the sources and sinks of turbulence , the cascading processes of energy . due to complexity and uncertainty of mhd turbulence , it is important to have techniques to study turbulence from observations .",
    "it is no doubt that the correct understanding of mhd turbulence can help us to shed light on some intrinsic properties of astrophysical processes , and even challenge paradigms of some traditional models , e.g.  evolution of molecular clouds ( see @xcite ) .",
    "when the non - thermal relativistic electrons propagate in turbulent magnetic fields they emit polarized synchrotron radiation , which carry information on the statistics of turbulent flows .",
    "therefore , synchrotron fluctuations are promising tool for investigating mhd turbulence .",
    "a theoretical description of the fluctuations of synchrotron intensity arising from magnetic turbulence is provided in @xcite ( henceforth lp12 ) and it was tested @xcite by using synthetic observations .    the study on synchrotron polarization fluctuations together with faraday rotation measure ( rm ) has been initiated in @xcite , and from then on many studies are dedicated to this subject ( e.g. , @xcite , see @xcite for a recent review ) .",
    "very recently , a novel technique of the statistic description of synchrotron polarization fluctuations is suggested to investigate spectrum and anisotropy of mhd turbulence ( @xcite , henceforth lp16 ) .",
    "this new technique considers the complex polarized intensity @xmath7 ( @xmath8 , where @xmath9 and @xmath10 are stokes parameters ) as a function of the intrinsic polarized intensity density @xmath11 , and then integrates along the line of sight in physical space variable in appendix d of lp16 , which is used to study mhd turbulence by the fourier transform from the wavelength @xmath12 space to the physical space .",
    "] , @xmath13 where @xmath14 is a function of the 2d spatial separation , @xmath15 , of the direction of measurements and the square of wavelength @xmath16 , and @xmath17 is the extent of the turbulent source along the line of sight .",
    "@xmath18 is called the faraday rm or faraday depth , where @xmath19 is the density of thermal electrons and @xmath20 is the component of the magnetic field along the line of sight direction .",
    "based on an analytical method of statistical descriptions , they proposed several versions of the technique that can be employed to obtain spectral slopes and correlation scales of the underlying mhd turbulence , and the spectrum of faraday rotation fluctuation .",
    "two main versions of the technique are polarization frequency analysis ( pfa ) , which makes use of the change of the variance of polarization intensity ( or its derivative ) as a function of the square of the wavelength @xmath16 , and polarization spatial analysis ( psa ) , which makes use of the spatial correlations of the polarization intensity ( or its derivative ) at the same wavelength as a function of the spatial separation @xmath15 .",
    "lp16 stresses that the two techniques have some analogies with their vcs and the vca techniques for turbulence studies using spectroscopic data .",
    "these techniques have been successfully applied to study turbulence with atomic hydrogen and co data .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to test the theoretical work of lp16 in order to open ways for applying this new technique to the studies of mhd turbulence in the milky way , distant galaxies and even clusters of galaxies .",
    "this work is timely because upcoming telescopes , such as the low - frequency array for radio astronomy ( lofar ) and square kilometer array ( ska ) operating in a wide wavelength range , can be used to study mhd turbulence ; the origin and evolution of cosmic magnetism is a key science project of ska ( @xcite ) . in this paper",
    ", we focus on testing the pfa theory ; the test for psa is carried out in lee et al .",
    "( 2016 ) .",
    "next section is devoted to methods of statistical descriptions for studying mhd turbulence , and a brief description of numerical techniques is provided in section 3 .",
    "we present our results in section 4 , discuss the results of statistical test in section 5 , and summarize our findings in section 6 .",
    "mhd turbulence is an extremely complex chaotic non - linear process and exhibits diverse properties on a microscopic level , but it allows a macroscopic treatment in a simple statistical description ( @xcite ) , which can reveal regular features behind chaotic phenomena of turbulent magnetic fluctuations .",
    "in fact , the method of statistical description of mhd turbulence is widely used .",
    "it is claimed as an adequate and concise way to shed light on important properties of interstellar turbulence ( lp16 ) .",
    "practically , structure and correlation functions of ( any ) physical variable @xmath21 have been traditionally employed for studying mhd turbulence .",
    "the correlation function is given by @xmath22 where , @xmath23 indicates an average over the entire volume of interest . as for the structure function",
    ", there is a wider variety one can measure . in the case of an isotropic mhd turbulence ,",
    "a second - order scenario is commonly used , and written as @xmath24 .",
    "\\label{sfqe}\\ ] ] as shown in equation ( [ sfqe ] ) , the second - order structure function is formally related to the correlation function . on the other hard ,",
    "the power spectrum , @xmath25 , is obtained by a fourier transform of @xmath21 from the physical space to the wavenumber space , and given by @xmath26 where the symbol ` * ' denotes the complex conjugate of @xmath27 .",
    "generally , from a spatial point of view , the measures in this paragraph belong to two - point statistics .    just like",
    "that stressed in section [ intro ] , we intend to test the pfa theory in lp16 , which is essentially spectroscopic , requiring sufficient frequency resolution and coverage . this technique is to measure the correlation of polarization at different wavelengths along a fixed line of sight ) ) . ] . in other words , this is a variance of polarization intensity , that is , a one - point statistics and a special case of the correlation function at @xmath28 .",
    "we now describe briefly the main theoretical results of lp16 related to the current work as follows .    on the basis of equation ( [ pi ] ) ,",
    "the variance of polarization as a function of wavelength is written as @xmath29}\\right > , \\label{var1 } \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath30 is an average of the rm density .",
    "after considering two assumptions , that is , one is @xmath31 to be a gaussian quantity , and the other is to neglect the correlation between the intrinsic polarization fluctuation @xmath11 and the faraday rm , equation ( [ var1 ] ) can further factorized into @xmath32 where , @xmath33 and @xmath34 is the structure function of faraday rm and was intensively studied in section 3.2 of lp16 . lp16",
    "investigated different regimes of magnetic turbulence by changing the ratio @xmath35 , which can appropriately characterize the transition of magnetic turbulence from the case when rm is dominantly random to the case uniform ; here , @xmath36 is the root mean square of faraday rm density fluctuations .    in the case of @xmath37",
    ", the variance of polarization intensity is subjected to @xmath38 at long wavelength regime , where @xmath39 is the characteristic scaling slope of magnetic fluctuations ( for instance @xmath40 would correspond to kolmogorov scaling ) .",
    "obviously , equation ( [ varslope1 ] ) reveals asymptotically the slope of the transverse magnetic field . in the opposite case , @xmath41",
    ", corresponding to the long wavelength regime , @xmath42 follows the universal law @xmath43 of faraday rotation scaling .",
    "the weighted derivative of equation ( [ varslope2 ] ) would reflect the scaling slope of the transverse magnetic field .",
    "as described however in lp16 , it is not easy to recover properties of magnetic fluctuations from observational data cubes due to the effects of noise in the data .    testing the above expressions is the main goal of our study .",
    "in addition , we also present statistical studies for both faraday depolarization and the variance of the polarization derivative as a function of wavelength .",
    "these studies would reveal the statistics of magnetic fluctuations from synchrotron polarization and faraday rotation .",
    "the technique we use to generate 3d synthetic data cubes for magnetic fields and the density of thermal electrons is presented here .",
    "we generate data ( @xmath44 s ) in the wavenumber space and then transform them into the physical space .",
    "the magnetic field is assumed as @xmath45 with the condition of the solenoidal vector field @xmath46 , where @xmath47 is the wave vector and @xmath48 is the position vector .",
    "the fourier coefficient @xmath49 is defined as @xmath50 , where , the subscript @xmath51 indicates three directions of cartesian coordinate .",
    "the amplitude follows a power - law : @xmath52 .",
    "the phase factor @xmath53 is randomly distributed .",
    "the generation of the data cube for the thermal electron density is similar but slightly easier because of no constraint for divergence - free condition .",
    "generating 3d data cubes requires large computational resources , which makes it difficult to achieve high numerical resolution .",
    "hence , we also create both 1d and 2d synthetic data with higher resolutions .",
    "the procedure for generating the 1d and 2d data is similar to the one for 3d data .",
    "that is , we generate fourier coefficients of the form @xmath54 $ ] in the wave - vector space and carry out fourier transform from the @xmath55-space to the physical space . here",
    "@xmath56 is either a 2d vector or a 1d scalar , @xmath57 , and @xmath58 is a random number between 0 and 1 .      we give here a brief expression on numerical aspects for radiative processes .",
    "the distribution of the non - thermal relativistic electrons is assumed to be @xmath59 , where @xmath60 is the spectral index of the electrons and @xmath61 is their energy .",
    "the formulae of synchrotron radiation in appendix a of lp16 are adopted to calculate stokes parameter @xmath62 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 . as seen in these formulae , the stokes parameters are proportional to @xmath63 , where @xmath64 is the perpendicular component of the magnetic field and the exponent @xmath65 is related to the electron index of the electron distribution @xmath60 by the relation @xmath66 .",
    "we stress that we are using the original formula of polarization intensity to test the theoretical work of lp16 . in our work ,",
    "related physical quantities are calculated in arbitrary units because they show only magnitude differences and do not change our statistical investigation results .",
    "to simulate realistic observations , we also consider the effects of a finite telescopic angular resolution and a random noise .",
    "we convolve the original polarization intensity ( i.e. , stokes @xmath9 and @xmath10 ) ` maps ' with a gaussian kernel in order to study the influence of finite angular resolution . for the noise ,",
    "we generate a map of gaussian noise and add it to the original polarization intensity map .",
    "we adjust the level of the noise by considering the signal to noise ratio .",
    "the resulting polarization maps ( with noise ) are smoothed with a gaussian beam , whose full - width at half maximum ( fwhm ) is equal to 3 pixels .",
    "we fix this resolution because usual surveys have a typical value of 3 pixels corresponding to the fwhm of the peak of telescope beam , resulting in a standard derivation of @xmath67 . to determine the signal to noise ratio of the final map",
    ", we also convolve the original polarization map with the same gaussian beam ( i.e. , @xmath68 ) and then subtract it from the final map .    [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     the technique for studying observational effects in 2d case is similar to that in 3d .",
    "only difference is that the observed maps are one - dimensional .",
    "the influence of numerical resolutions on smoothing processes is presented in figure [ fig : ressmoo ] .",
    "the original maps have been smoothed with an effective gaussian beam of fwhm=3 pixels .",
    "as shown in the figure , the curves for the smoothed maps get closer to those of original maps as numerical resolution increases .",
    "we hence use the data with maximum numerical resolution we can provide to carry out the following research .",
    "the influence of gaussian noise levels on @xmath69 in the stochastic and uniform rm dominant regimes is plotted in figure [ figs : noise ] , for a komolgorov magnetic spectrum with @xmath70",
    ". the standard deviation of gaussian noise is parameterized by @xmath71 that is a fraction of the mean synchrotron intensity .",
    "the maps after adding gaussian noise have been convolved to an effective gaussian beam of fwhm=3 pixels at different noise levels .",
    "we find that different noise levels indeed produce different results .",
    "the gaussian noise makes the polarization variance curved upwards at long wavelength region .",
    "however , as seen in figure [ fig : ressmoo ] , slopes corresponding to smoothed maps would deviate downwards from the original slope . as a result , from the narrow wavelength point of view , an adding noise could make spectrum more close to the original slope .",
    "thus , it needs a coverage range of wavelengths in observations in order to recover real properties of mhd turbulence .",
    "the resulting @xmath69 with both fixed angular resolution and fixed noise level are given in figure [ figs : final ] , corresponding to stochastic ( left panel ) and uniform ( right panel ) rm dominant regimes .",
    "it is obvious that steep magnetic spectrum is more easy to recover the universal scaling @xmath43 , and @xmath72 at the same angular resolution .",
    "besides , to recover @xmath72 slope , it needs higher signal to noise ratio when comparing the left and right panels . using the method given in section [ numtech ]",
    ", we deduce what the signal to noise ratio at individual wavelength is .",
    "for instance , the signal to noise ratios at @xmath73 , corresponding to the noise levels of @xmath74 , @xmath75 , @xmath76 and @xmath77 , are 158 , 32 , 16 and 8 , respectively .",
    "the noise has a small influence on the polarization variance at slightly short wavelength region which is an ideal region of wavelengths for recovering the properties of magnetic turbulence .",
    "the uniform rm dominant regime is important for us to reveal the properties of magnetic turbulence from the polarization variance , because the @xmath72 scaling is associated with different types of mhd turbulence by the spectral index @xmath39 .",
    "lp16 provides additional methods for extracting statistical information on polarization fluctuations . as examples , we in this section present studies of the degree of polarization , and the variance of polarization derivative with respect to the square of wavelength ( @xmath78 ) , based on 1d synthetic data .",
    "figure [ fig : dervar ] shows the variance of polarization derivative with respect to @xmath16 for different magnetic spectral indices @xmath79 , 11/3 and 7/2 .",
    "we use two extremal values of mean magnetic field along the line of sight , which characterize different regimes of faraday dispersion . in the case of @xmath80",
    ", the resulting scaling follows @xmath81 at long wavelength region . in the case of @xmath82 ,",
    "the power - law indices are @xmath83 for @xmath79 , @xmath84 for @xmath70 , and @xmath85 for @xmath86 , respectively .",
    "although there is not a theoretical prediction , we believe that this method can surely recover the scaling properties of mhd turbulence .     for different mhd scaling indices , as a function of the square of wavelength @xmath16 in 1d case .",
    "@xmath80 and 0.103 correspond to different regions of faraday dispersion .",
    "the highest resolution 1d data is used . ]     in 1d case .",
    "the potential scaling indices of mhd turbulence are set as @xmath79 , 11/3 and 7/2 .",
    "@xmath80 and 0.103 correspond to different regions of faraday dispersion . the highest resolution 1d",
    "data is used . ]",
    "we in figure [ fig : dofp ] present the degree of polarization of linearly polarized synchrotron emission as a function of the square of wavelength @xmath16 . as shown in the figure",
    ", the polarization for steep magnetic spectral index is stronger than that of shallow spectral index . correspondingly , the depolarization of faraday dispersion is also stronger in steep slope than in shallow one .",
    "the increase in the mean magnetic field along the line of sight results in the shift of effective faraday dispersion towards much shorter wavelength regime .",
    "it is easy to understand this point from the relation @xmath87 , in which @xmath88 is the faraday rotation angle of the polarized direction .",
    "when @xmath88 is invariant , the increase in the magnetic field shall result in a decrease in @xmath16 .",
    "the random fluctuations in the degree of polarization caused by faraday dispersion become significantly larger in large mean field than zero mean field , in particular , at @xmath89 .",
    "we have proven that using the dispersion of synchrotron polarization one can obtain the statistics of the magnetic field and the underlying statistics of faraday rotation . in the case of negligible faraday rotation ,",
    "the statistics of synchrotron polarization provide spectral properties of the perpendicular component of the magnetic fields ( lp12 ) . but as described in lp16 , due to the presence of an extra imaginary part of the polarization intensity , resulting statistical studies can deliver more valuable information . for example , the imaginary part of the correlation functions of polarization intensity could provide information about the 3d direction of the mean magnetic field , which is a very intriguing result in lp16 . in the case when faraday rotation is important , one can obtain statistical information about fluctuations of the magnetic field as well as thermal electron density .",
    "one can also sample different emission regions by varying wavelengths , which is the most obvious advantage of faraday dispersion and provide the valuable information about turbulence distribution along the line of sight .    in the present study , we are focused on testing the pfa technique of lp16 by using 3d , 2d and 1d synthetic data ` cubes ' .",
    "our study probes turbulence along a line of sight direction .",
    "a setup with zero mean magnetic field would characterize the stochastic rm dominant region , in which we confirmed that the variance of polarization intensity follows the universal @xmath43 .",
    "thus , by itself , such a study can not provide the properties of turbulence .",
    "as suggested in lp16 a derivative of polarization variance with regard to the square of wavelengths allows to recover the statistical information about the perpendicular component of magnetic fields , but the procedure of taking a derivative enhances noise which requires a more sophisticated regularization procedures .",
    "therefore we have not tried it in this paper . with increase of mean magnetic fields",
    ", the stochastic faraday rotation dominant region would transform into the uniform rm dominant region , in which we confirmed that the variance of polarization intensity follows @xmath72 .",
    "this region provides a way for us to recover the spectral properties of magnetic turbulence .",
    "it is noticed that when we carry out simulations based on different dimensions , i.e. , 3d , 2d and 1d , the typical value of the ratio @xmath0 corresponding to the shift from the turbulent dominated region to the mean field dominated region is not the same .",
    "for 3d synthetic data , we have considered a sophisticated divergence - free condition of the synthetic magnetic field . in order to significantly enhance numerical resolutions ,",
    "we have used a fractal cube for 2d and 1d data . a slight difference to generate synthetic data cube with different dimensions would result in a difference in turbulent magnetic field . besides , the structure of the integrals to calculate the polarization variance depends on the dimension of the space of integration . specifically , the polarization variance depends on the synthetic magnetic fields , @xmath90 , @xmath91 and @xmath92 .",
    "these turbulent magnetic field components are further related to spatial coordinates @xmath93 for 3d case , @xmath94 for 2d case , and @xmath95 for 1d case .",
    "we have confirmed that the variance of polarization derivative with regard to @xmath16 can also reveal the spectral properties of magnetic turbulence and this motivates a further theoretical studies .",
    "similar to the traditional faraday rm synthesis method mentioned in  1 , other features related to faraday rotation , such as the degree of polarization and rotation angle of polarization plane , can also be obtained in the framework of the new techniques . as an example",
    ", we explore the depolarization effect of faraday rotation .",
    "the goal of our paper is to pave the way for the pfa technique suggested in lp16 for applying to observations .",
    "as we know , the spectral recovery of mhd turbulence would be affected by both the noise and the resolution of telescopes .",
    "hence , this study also explores the influence of these effects on the pfa . to test the effects of the resolution",
    ", we found that high numerical resolutions is required to provide a sufficiently long inertial range that is necessary for recovering the turbulence spectrum .",
    "this is not a problem , however , for actual astrophysical observations , as they do not have the issue of the shot noise that plague our numerical studies .",
    "we note that the problem of shot noise related to the discrete numerical data was a serious issue for testing vca and vcs techniques ( see @xcite ) . with the numerical samples with the highest resolution we successfully demonstrated the possibility of recovering turbulence data .",
    "this proves the feasibility of the technique .",
    "though the fact that the index of cosmic rays is not a constant , the present study confirms the lp12 and lp16 conclusion that the change of electron index does not distort their the value of the power slope of the fluctuations measured by the pfa .",
    "therefore , we numerically proved that the variations of cosmic ray properties does not prevent one to obtianing the spectral properties from synchrotron polarization fluctuations .",
    "the importance of this work is obvious from yet another perspective .",
    "it is advantageous to use synergies of different techniques to study mhd turbulence .",
    "the vca and vcs techniques mentioned in section 1 can be used to obtain statistics of velocity fluctuations .",
    "in addition , we should stress that a spectrum is not the only property of turbulence .",
    "for instance , recently , some new techniques , based on the measurements of the kurtosis , skewness and genus of the gradients of the polarized synchrotron emission were applied to understand the mach number of turbulence ( @xcite ) .",
    "other new techniques of obtaining the statistics of density are recently developed by the analysis of moments of the density probabilities ( @xcite ) , tsallis statistics ( @xcite ) , bispectra and genus ( @xcite ) . using the new pfa technique , one can obtain the statistics of magnetic fields and faraday rotation .",
    "this information is complementary for the turbulence studies .",
    "our work is intended to open an avenue towards analyzing the large amount of exiting and upcoming radio data cubes from lofar and ska , with the aim of applying the new technique to the study of the milky way and galaxies .",
    "in this paper , we have used synthetic observations to test the analytical predictions of the new statistical techniques suggested in lp16 .",
    "we found that numerical results are in good agreement with the lp16 s study .",
    "based on 3d , 2d and 1d synthetic observations , numerical results we have obtained are briefly summarized as follows .",
    "the studies of the polarization dispersion of synchrotron radiation demonstrated that for the region dominated by stochastic rm fluctuations , corresponding to the ratio @xmath1 , the variance of polarization gives the universal spectrum @xmath43 . in a region with the dominant rm effect arising from the regular magnetic field ( @xmath2 )",
    ", the variance of polarization follows @xmath72 .",
    "thus the variance reflects statistics of the magnetic field component perpendicular to the line of sight .",
    "the pfa technique can be practically used , as we showed that the effects of angular resolution and inevitable observational noise do not present an obstacle for recovering the underlying spectra of turbulence .",
    "we highly appreciate the referee for his / her valuable comments and suggestions that significantly improve our work .",
    "thanks support from the national natural science foundation of china ( grant nos .",
    "11233006 and 11363003 ) .",
    "a.l . acknowledges the nsf grant ast 1212096 and the center for magnetic self organization ( cmso ) .",
    "h.l . and j.c .",
    "acknowledge supports by the national r & d program through the national research foundation of korea , funded by the ministry of education ( nrf-2013r1a1a2064475 ) .",
    "armstrong , j.  w. , rickett , b.  j. , & spangler , s.  r.  1995 , , 443 , 209 biskamp , d. 2003 , in magnetohydrodynamic turbulence , ed .",
    "d. biskamp ( cambridge : cambridge univ .",
    "press ) , 2003 beck , r. , frick , p. , stepanov , r. , & sokoloff , d. 2012 , a&a 543 , a113 beck , r. 2015 , assl , 407 , 3 beresnyak , a.  2014 , , 784 , l20 beresnyak , a. , & lazarian , a. 2015 , assl , 407 , 163 brandenburg , a. , & lazarian , a. 2013 , ssrv , 178 , 163 brentjens , m. , & de bruyn , a. 2005 , a&a , 441 , 1217 burkhart , b. , falceta - gonalves , d. , kowal , g. , & lazarian , a. 2009 , apj , 693 , 250 burkhart , b. , & lazarian , a. 2012 , , 755 , l19 burkhart , b. , lazarian , a. , & gaensler , b. m. 2012 , apj , 749 , 14 burkhart , b. , stanimirovi , s. , lazarian , a. , & kowal , g. 2010 , apj , 708 , 1204 burn , b. j. 1966 , mnras , 133 , 67 chepurnov , a. , gordon , j. , lazarian , a. , & stanimirovi , s. 2008 , apj , 688 , 1021 2010 , apj , 714 , 1398 chepurnov , a. , & lazarian , a. 2009 , apj , 693 , 1074 chepurnov , a. , & lazarian , a. 2010 , , 710 , 853 chepurnov , a. , lazarian , a. , stanimirovi , s. , heiles , c. , & peek , j. e. g. 2010 , apj , 714 , 1398 chepurnov , a. , burkhart , b. , lazarian , a. , & stanimirovi , s. 2015 , , 810 , 33 cho , j. , & lazarian , a. 2002 , phys .",
    "lett . , 88 , 245001 cho , j. , & lazarian , a. 2010 , apj , 720 , 1181 cho , j. , lazarian , a. , & vishniac , e. t. 2002 , apj , 564 , 291 cho , j. , lazarian , a. , & vishniac , e. t. 2003 , lnp , 614 , 56 elmegreen , b.  g. , & scalo , j. 2004 , , 42 , 211 esquivel , a. , & lazarian , a. 2010 , apj , 710 , 125 frick , p. , sokoloff , d. , stepanov , r. , & beck , r. 2010 , mnras , 401 , l24 frick , p. , sokoloff , d. , stepanov , r. , & beck , r. 2011 , mnras , 414",
    ", 2540 gaensler , b. m. , haverkorn , m. , burkhart , b. , et al .",
    "2011 , natur , 478 , 214 goldreich , p. , & sridhar , s. 1995 , , 438 , 763 heald , g. 2015 , assl , 407 , 41 herron , c. a. , burkhart , b. , lazarian , a. , gaensler , b. m. , & mcclure - griffiths , n. m. 2016 , , arxiv:1603.02751 iacobelli , m. , burkhart , b. , haverkorn , m. , et al .",
    "2014 , , 566 , a5 junklewitz , h. , & enlin , t. a. 2011 , a&a , 530 , a88 kowal , g. , lazarian , a. , & beresnyak , a. 2007 , apj , 658 , 423 kowal , g. , lazarian , a. , vishniac , e. t. , & otmianowska - mazur , k. 2009 , apj , 700 , 63 larson , r. b. 1981 , mnras , 194 , 809 lazarian , a. 1999 , in plasma turbulence and energetic particles in astrophysics , ed .",
    "m. ostrowski , & r. schlickeiser ( krakow : obserwatorium astronomiczne , uniwersytet jagiellonski ) , 28 lazarian , a. 2009 , space sci .",
    ", 143 , 357 lazarian , a. 2014 , , 181 , 1 lazarian , a. , eyink , g. , vishniac , e. , & kowal , g. 2015 , philos .",
    "a. , 373 , 20140144 lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d. 2000 , apj , 537 , 720 lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d. 2004 , apj , 616 , 943 lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d. 2006 , apj , 652 , 1348 lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d. 2008 , apj , 686 , 350 lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d. 2012 , , 747 , 5 ( lp12 ) lazarian , a. , & pogosyan , d. 2016 , , 818 , 178 lazarian , a. , pogosyan , d. , vzquez - semadeni , e. , & pichardo , b. 2001 , apj , 555 , 130 lazarian , a. , & vishniac , e. t. 1999 , apj , 517 , 700 lazarian , a. , vishniac , e. t. , & cho , j. 2004 , apj , 603 , 180 mac low , m .- m . , & klessen , r.  s. 2004 , rev .",
    "phys . , 76 , 125 mckee , c. f. , & ostriker , e. c. 2007 , ara&a , 45 , 565 mestel , l. 1965 , , 6 , 265 mouschovias , t.  c. , & spitzer , l. , jr .",
    "1976 , , 210 , 326 padoan , p. , juvela , m. , kritsuk , a. , & norman , m. l. 2006 , apj , 653 , l125 padoan , p. , juvela , m. , kritsuk , a. , & norman , m. l. 2009 , apj , 707 , l153 stone , j. m. , ostriker , e. c. , & gammie , c. f. 1998 , , 508 , l99 stutzki , j. 1999 , in proc .",
    "conf . : plasma turbulence and energetic particles in astrophysics , ed . m. ostrowski & r. schlickeiser ( krakw : obserwatorium astron .",
    "jagielloski ) , 48 tofflemire , b. m. , burkhart , b. , & lazarian , a. 2011 , apj , 736 , 60"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we test a new technique of studying magnetohydrodynamic ( mhd ) turbulence suggested by lazarian & pogosyan , using synthetic synchrotron polarization observations . </S>",
    "<S> this paper focuses on a one - point statistics , which is termed the polarization frequency analysis , that is characterized by the variance of polarized emission as a function of the square of wavelengths along a single line of sight . </S>",
    "<S> we adopt a ratio @xmath0 of the standard deviation of the line - of - sight turbulent magnetic field to the line - of - sight mean magnetic field to depict the level of turbulence . when this ratio is either large ( @xmath1 ) , which characterizes a turbulent field dominated region , or small ( @xmath2 ) , which characterizes a mean field dominated region , we obtain the polarization variance @xmath3 and @xmath4 , respectively . at small </S>",
    "<S> @xmath0 , i.e. , the mean field dominated region , we successfully recover the turbulent spectral index by the polarization variance . </S>",
    "<S> we find that our simulations agree well with the theoretical prediction of lazarian & pogosyan . with existing and upcoming data cubes from the low - frequency array for radio astronomy ( lofar ) and square kilometer array ( ska ) </S>",
    "<S> , this new technique can be applied to study the magnetic turbulence in the milky way and other galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}