{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation of planets occurs in a disk of gas and dust around the protostar .",
    "the formation of regular satellites around a giant planet probably occurs in a similar way in a circum - planetary disk around the planet . however , there are different models for this formation in the literature with pros and cons each @xcite",
    ". the orbital evolution of these regular satellites around a giant planet can give us hints about their formation .",
    "the orbital studies of these celestial bodies demand the observation of positions , relative distances or other forms of observables , like central instants and impact parameters in mutual phenomena , over extended period of time to fit them with dynamic models @xcite .",
    "however , to detect very weak disturbance forces , such as _ tidal forces _ , these observables have to be very precise .",
    "this high precision usually can not be attained with classical methods .",
    "for example , jupiter and saturn s brightness makes it very difficult to obtain enough number of astrometric calibration stars in a ccd frame in order to obtain a good individual position for its main satellites .",
    "the classical ccd astrometry of a single satellite furnishes positions with precisions ( usually the standard deviation from a set of a few hundreds of images ) in the range of 50 to 150 mas @xcite .",
    "this issue was partially solved using relative positions between two ( or more ) satellites @xcite .",
    "more recently @xcite achieved relative positions with precision of 30 mas .",
    "some of these works use the ephemeris of the satellites as a ruler in order to obtain the reference system orientation and scale in the ccd image",
    ". often , one uses the positions of bodies with more precise ephemeris to determine the position of another body with a worst ephemeris .",
    "an example is the case of miranda of uranus , when the ephemeris of the others satellites ( mainly oberon ) were used as reference frame in the position reductions @xcite .",
    "another possibility is the use of the so called _ precision premium _",
    "@xcite , first pointed out by @xcite .",
    "the idea is that the accuracy of the determination of apparent distances is remarkably improved for short apparent distances ( less than 85 \" ) , as instrumental and astronomical issues tend to affect the images of both satellites in the same way . in principle",
    ", we can use the ephemeris distance between two small - separated satellites and the actual observed distance to determine the scale and orientation of the image .",
    "this method was mainly used for the saturnian main satellites @xcite and for the galilean satellites @xcite .    another way to obtain very precise relative positions of typically a few mas is with the observation of mutual phenomena . however this",
    "can only be done during the equinox of these planets ",
    "see for example @xcite .",
    "mutual phenomena consist of occultations and eclipses between natural satellites , as seen along the line of sight of an observer .",
    "one satellite ( or its projected shadow ) hides the other causing a drop in the light flux which can be measured with high precision using differential photometry in a small fov , when astronomical and instrumental systematic errors in the measurements of the targets and calibration sources tend to cancel out .",
    "this flux variation is connected to the relative apparent motion of the satellites in the sky , and thus , ultimately , to their orbits .",
    "the apparent relative motion between the satellites under mutual phenomena can be described in terms of the instant of minimum apparent distance ( central instant of the event ) , the minimum apparent distance at this instant ( impact parameter ) , and the relative apparent velocity between one satellite ( or shadow ) and the other ( @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "the particular nature of orbital geometry in mutual phenomena offers valuable constrains in the orbital solutions of the satellites @xcite .",
    "however , these phenomena can be observed only every 6 years for jupiter , every 15 years for saturn and every 42 years for uranus @xcite .",
    "inspired in the mutual phenomena and based in the same orbital geometry , we propose the observation of what we call _ mutual approximations _ between natural satellites in order to obtain the central instant when the apparent distance between two satellites reaches a minimum .    in mutual approximations",
    "the bodies only approach each other in the sky plane at adequate , not too short , distances ",
    "we actually avoid occultations , we wish to be able to measure the satellites separately . similarly to the geometric parameters of mutual phenomena , we can also determine the impact parameter and the relative velocity , but , in this case , only in pixel units . for orbit",
    "fitting , these supplementary parameters can only be useful if we can accurately convert the distances from pixels to arc seconds using a standard reference frame , like an astrometric star catalogue representative of the icrs . however , this is frequently not the case , as usually an insufficient number of reference stars is available in the fov , for two reasons : short fov and/or short exposure times to avoid saturation of the satellite images and light scatter from the central planet .",
    "one way to overcome this problem is to observe a crowded star field nearby and determine the pixel scale to be used .",
    "another alternative is to use an ephemeris of the pair of satellites as the reference frame .",
    "but , by doing that we scale the observed impact parameter and the relative velocity to the used ephemeris , so no trully independent new results are really obtained , although they may serve to check parameters for internal consistency ( see more details and computations in this respect in section [ anexo_a ] ) .",
    "in fact , @xcite were the first to suggest such astrometric approach . also , @xcite reported observations which they called _",
    "`` close pairings '' _ of the galilean moons with a speckle interferometer mounted on the 26-inch refractor at the naval observatory in washington , dc .",
    "but no further references , results or studies in this subject were published in the literature to our knowledge .",
    "we give in this paper a complete description of the method of mutual approximations and present the results of its application to an observational campaign of mutual approximations for the galilean moons carried out in 2014 - 2015 .",
    "our observations were made with the 0.6 m zeiss telescope of the observatrio do pico dos dias ( opd , brazil ) with a narrow - band methane filter centred at 889 nm with width of 15 nm that attenuates jupiter s scattered light .",
    "the paper is arranged as follows . in section [ model ] , we describe the theoretical model of relative motion for the mutual approximations and how to obtain the central instant of the event . in section [ anexo_a ]",
    "we show also how to compute the impact parameter and relative velocity . in section [ reduc ]",
    "we discuss what astronomical effects like solar phase - angle , atmospheric refraction and aberration could cause an offset in the raw measured central instant . in section [ results ]",
    "we detail the observational campaign of the mutual approximations for the galilean satellites , the measurement of the images and our results . in section [ comparar ]",
    "we compare the results from mutual approximations and mutual phenomena simultaneously observed during the mutual phenomena campaign of 2009 . for future comparisons , we also give the results of the approximations observed during the 2014 - 2015 equinox of jupiter .",
    "discussion and conclusions are presented in section [ conclusao ] .",
    "we set here a geometric model that describes the variation with time of the apparent distance @xmath1 in the plane of the sky between two satellites for a short arc of their orbits , typical of mutual approximations .",
    "we assume that there is no strong deformation from the telescope optics on the images .",
    "a simple description by a polynomial in @xmath2 of arbitrary degree @xmath3 ( typically @xmath4 ) is obtained using @xmath5 . in mutual approximations",
    ", @xmath1 always reaches a minimum and the polynomial curve will present a positive concavity .",
    "the same geometric parameters that describe mutual phenomena also describe mutual approximations , i.e. central instant , impact parameter and relative velocity .",
    "notice however that only the central instant can be determined independently of any reference frame , even without the knowledge of the pixel scale of the images .",
    "but astronomical corrections such as refraction , aberration and solar phase angle must be taken into account ( see sect . [ reduc ] ) .",
    "however , if one does want to get all the parameters , one needs to convert distances from pixels to arcseconds . in this case",
    ", the pixel scale must be computed .",
    "( see sect .",
    "[ anexo_a ] ) .",
    "the vector distance between the two satellites in the sky plane @xmath6 in a specific instant @xmath2 is :    @xmath7    assuming that the square of the distance between two satellites in the short arc of their orbits , nearby the central instant of the approximation , can be described as a polinonm of arbitrary power @xmath3 in time , then , considering ( [ eq : ad3 ] ) we obtain :    @xmath8    where the parameters @xmath9 , @xmath10 , @xmath11 are related with the kinematics of the satellites motion .",
    "using least squares we fit this model with observed distances .",
    "alternatively , we can fit ephemeris apparent distances to study the event and even for testing the most adequate polynomial power to use in the fitting .",
    "the central instant @xmath0 of the mutual approximation is obtained when the first time derivative of equation ( [ eq : ad4 ] ) is set equal to zero .",
    "@xmath12    the central instant @xmath0 comes from the determination of the root of eq .",
    "( [ eq : at1 ] ) . using an interactive process",
    "we determine the central instant , subtract it in @xmath2 and then redo the adjustment in order to set @xmath13 .",
    "the central instant error comes from around - zero derivative of eq .",
    "( [ eq : at1 ] ) as a function of the error of the other coefficients , computed in the least squares fit .",
    "this error is given by eq .",
    "( [ eq : at3 ] ) :    @xmath14    note that the numerator of eq .",
    "( [ eq : at3 ] ) relates to the observed distance errors , thus it reflects as expected the noise in the observed apparent distance curve , related with the atmospheric conditions of the night .",
    "the error of the central instant is also dependent on the curve concavity related to @xmath15 , which in turn is dominated by the relative velocity .",
    "a smaller central instant error is expected from a more pronounced minimum which comes from larger @xmath15 values , or higher relative velocities .    in practice the observational procedure in mutual approximations",
    "consists in observing a number of images , an hour before and after a central instant foreseen from an ephemeris .",
    "we then measure the apparent distances and , with the help of any ephemeris , apply corrections due to solar phase angle , refraction and aberration that could shift the distances in a way that could offset the central instant ( see sect .",
    "[ reduc ] ) .",
    "the instant errors can be translated from seconds of time to mas or km by using the relative velocity and distance to the observer given by an ephemeris . in section [ anexo_a ]",
    "we describe the procedure in the case that one wants to get the complete set of parameters , that is the impact parameter and relative velocity too , in the same fashion as in mutual phenomena .",
    "how well does the model of apparent relative motion introduced here really describe the actual relative apparent path between two real satellites in a mutual approximation ? considering that the galilean moons of jupiter are amongst the most studied dynamical systems , and taking their most precise ephemeris up to date as representative of their real paths in the sky , we addressed this question by fitting our model directly to apparent distances computed from their ephemeris . in this work",
    "all events were well fitted by a fourth degree polynomial .",
    "we chose as an example the approximation between io and ganymede at february 19th , 2014 .",
    "the ephemeris used was the noe-5 - 2010-gal provided by imcce from @xcite . in the figure [ fig_ma1 ] we computed the apparent distances from the ephemeris and fitted them with a fourth degree polynomial .",
    "the comparison between the fitted ( green line ) and ephemeris ( black dots ) apparent distances .",
    "the residual dispersion is also illustrated in the bottom ( red crosses ) , in the sense _ model minus ephemeris_. the time resolution of the ephemeris was one second .",
    "are in black and model fitted ones in green .",
    "we took ephemeris positions every second .",
    "notice that the fit is actually done in @xmath5 , using eq .",
    "( [ eq : ad4]).,height=264 ]    as seen in figure [ fig_ma1 ] , our model fits quite well the satellite ephemeris .",
    "the residual of the adjustment stays in 1 mas , corresponding to the numerical limit of extracted ephemeris positions , here truncated for computational purposes ( notice that the actual ephemeris precision is worse than this ) . in figure [ fig_ma2 ]",
    "we illustrate the discrepancy between the value for the central instant in mas obtained using different polynomial models in time for @xmath16 .",
    "models with power less than the fourth degree give incomplete descriptions of the satellite s relative motion .",
    "we show that after the fourth degree there is no significant improvement in the precision or accuracy of the model , for this example .",
    "others tests showed similar results .",
    "although the determination of the central instant comes from fits to the raw measured apparent distances given in pixel units ( see sect . [ model ] ) , the utc time is recorded in the observations with a gps system or precise internet timing .",
    "thus , the central instant derived in utc is the only truly independent parameter obtained in mutual approximations without regard to any reference frame , be it a star catalogue or an ephemeris . for this reason ,",
    "the central instant is the main parameter derived from the mutual approximations .",
    "the impact parameter and relative velocity are also derived from fits to the observed apparent distances , but in this case they share the same metric .",
    "thus , these parameters can only be obtained in standard units if the observed distances are also given in standard metrics , such as arcseconds . a conversion from pixels to arcseconds",
    "must be made .",
    "this can only be accomplished with the use of a reference frame .",
    "notice that if we use a star catalogue as reference frame , the obtained impact parameter and relative velocity are independent from any ephemeris . in this case , like in mutual phenomena",
    ", they may be as useful as the central instant in orbit fit work .",
    "this is possible if we have enough catalogue reference stars and can make the right ascension and declination reduction of the fov .",
    "if this is not the case , we can alternatively reduce a nearby field with a sufficient number of reference stars and use the derived pixel scale in the fov of the satellites to compute the observed distances . unfortunately , this is rarely the case of jupiter and saturn .",
    "they are currently crossing a sky path with few stars .",
    "besides , due to the brightness of their main moons and their proximity to the planet , the very short exposure times used prevent the imaging of reference stars .",
    "but uranus may be a good and promising example for the use of this procedure .",
    "we can also use an ephemeris to obtain the pixel scale , see @xcite .",
    "this is very useful when we have no reference stars , or even when only the two satellites are available in the fov .",
    "this is frequently the case of the observations of jupiter and saturn moons .",
    "the drawback is that the observed distances are scaled according to the ephemeris frame , so that the impact parameter and the relative velocity will be dependent of the used ephemeris to some extent , and may be not useful in orbital works .",
    "even so , it is always a good practical procedure to compute the impact parameter and relative velocity using the ephemeris as reference , for it serves as an extra checking procedure of the results . for this reason , we describe this procedure in sect .",
    "[ ps ] .",
    "since the observed satellite s images are affected by solar phase angle , aberration and refraction , these effects are taken into account prior to fitting the observed distances with the topocentric ephemeris ones ( see sect .",
    "[ reduc ] ) .    from eq .",
    "( [ eq : ad4 ] ) , when @xmath13 , we see that the minimum distance between the satellites , the impact parameters @xmath17 of the approximation , will be related with @xmath9 in the form of @xmath18 and the incertitude of this parameter is @xmath19    the relative velocity is determined as follows : using two consecutives images we determine the instantaneous variation of the relative position in x and y in the ccd frame . with the acurate time of each image",
    "we can determine the relative instantaneous velocity between both frames .",
    "then we fit a linear function in the velocity curve in time obtained with all the images .",
    "the relative velocity of interest is the one for the central instant @xmath0 and its error is obtained from the linear fit .",
    "notice that , from our fit , these parameters are in pixel units and pixels per second .",
    "the conversion to arcsecond units is explained in the following section .",
    "knowing from an ephemeris the theoretical apparent distances between the satellites ( @xmath20 ) in arcseconds , affected by solar phase angle , aberration and atmospheric refraction , and the instrumental distances ( @xmath21 ) in pixels , makes it possible to obtain the pixel scale .",
    "notice that we projected the ephemeris on the tangent plane using the gnomonic projection , so that the standard coordinates ( x , y ) are used in the computation of the pixel scale .",
    "we compute the pixel scale @xmath22 as the slope of a linear function fitted to the ratio between the ephemeris distances @xmath23 and instrumental distances @xmath24 ( eq . [ eq : ps ] ) .",
    "@xmath25    figure [ fig_ps ] illustrates the variation of the pixel scale overnight for the mutual approximation between io and ganymede which occurred at february , 19th , 2014 . for illustration ,",
    "in this example we computed an error of @xmath26 for the pixel scale .        for comparison , we determined all the parameters of a mutual approximation , central instant , impact parameter , relative velocity and the pixel - scale using two different ephemeris .",
    "we chose the noe-5 - 2010-gal provided by imcce from @xcite and the jpl ephemeris , @xmath27 , for this analysis .",
    "the results and errors are displayed in table [ tb : compar ] for the approximation between io and ganymede of february , 19th of 2014 .",
    "other examples showed similar results .",
    ".comparison between the results for the central instant , @xmath28 , impact parameter , @xmath29 and relative velocity , @xmath30 for io and ganymede mutual approximation of february , 19th 2014 and the calibration parameter , pixel - scale @xmath22 , using two ephemeris  noe-5 - 2010-gal and @xmath27 . [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]      + _ note .",
    "_ same as in table [ tb : result_1 ] .",
    "in this paper we presented a method to measure the central instant in an approximation between natural satellite pairs .",
    "instead of being restricted to the particular configuration of mutual occultations - which only occur during the equinox of the central planet - in mutual approximations ( as we call the method ) we can make observations every time when the satellites do nt cross each other in the sky , but rather approach each other up to a minimum apparent distance , which is at least larger than the sum of their radii , or in practice larger than the seeing - a special geometry that recurrently occurs for natural satellites . in this method the relative motion of the satellites is essentially described by the same geometric parameters as in a mutual occultation ",
    "central instant , impact parameter and relative velocity .",
    "but only the central instant can be truly determined independently of any reference system , and so we consider it the main result of the method . here",
    "astrometry is the technique used to directly measure typically very short distances ( less than 85 \" ) with very small errors due to the precision premium , while differential photometry is the technique used in mutual phenomena .",
    "we successfully applied the method to the galilean moons using ccd observations made in 2014 and 2015 .",
    "we compared ours results with the ephemeris noe-5 - 2010-gal from imcce . using old observations from the 2009 equinox of jupiter",
    ", we also compared the performance of mutual approximations with published mutual phenomena results from that campaign .",
    "the frequency of these approximations depends only of the orbital period of the satellites . in the case of the galilean moons , a couple of days or so . because there is no need of reference stars for the astrometry",
    "even small telescopes can be used . because the events may last for hours",
    "there is no need of a high cadence in time between the images , even tens of seconds would be ok .",
    "the mutual approximations extend the possibility of obtaining relative distances with precision of a few mas , to periods where there are no occultations or eclipses .",
    "this means getting a relative position with an error about 10 mas for every observed event along the visibility period . in the case of the galilean moons we obtained a precision of 0.56 seconds for the central instant when",
    "the whole approximation curve of distances was observed and a precision of 1.52 seconds for the central instant when there were gaps along the curve or around the central instant .",
    "the high precision results obtained in this work for the galilean moons benefited from : ( i ) the precision premium from very small field astrometry ; ( ii ) from the use of a narrow band filter centred in a methane absorption region , eliminating the scattered light of jupiter ( this filter was also used in the reported mutual phenomena observations ) ; ( iii ) the use of an adequate telescope / detector / exposure configuration set , allowing for imaging the satellites with high s / n ( signal / noise ) ratios , but avoiding saturation .    the instrumental distortions due to the non flatness and non parallelness of the filter and the ccd cover glass , and their distance from the ccd chip affect the global reduction of the entire fov of the ccd to some extent .",
    "however , due to the very small distance between both satellites ( smaller than 30 arc seconds ) these distortions can be neglected here .",
    "the error in the measurement of the centroids , and thus of the distances , due to the effects of low / high albedo regions in the surface of the satellites , is presently unknown .",
    "however , taking the surface illumination resulting from the solar phase angle geometry as an extreme example , and using the relations in section [ reduc ] , we find that we need nearly a 5 degrees phase angle to change the photocentre by 10 mas .",
    "this corresponds to a zero albedo circular region of 100 km radius .",
    "indeed , craters or volcanoes in many of the galilean moons are features of this size @xcite .",
    "however , they represent a variation of only 0.1 in the surrounding surface albedo .",
    "so , in principle , at least for the galilean moons , this effect can be neglected . in the special case of io",
    ", the volcanoes can affect the centroid for infrared observations in wavelengths such as 3800 nm , as can be seen from @xcite .",
    "however in the same paper , the authors obtained a lightcurve observed in pic du midi at 800 nm for comparison purposes , but in this wavelength the effect of the volcanoes could not be observed .",
    "since our observations were made in the same wavelength ( 889 nm ) , we conclude that these effects can be neglected in our images .",
    "mutual approximations is a simple , efficient and suitable method for small telescopes .",
    "it can be used to continually furnish high precision central instants that can be used to strongly constrain orbit fitting .",
    "ultimately , mutual approximations will significantly contribute to the improvement of the orbits of natural satellites , including the consideration of weak interactions like tidal forces .",
    "the authors thank the referee dr .",
    "d. pascu for his constructive comments .",
    "bm thanks the financial support by the capes / brazil .",
    "ma thanks the cnpq ( grants 473002/2013 - 2 and 308721/2011 - 0 ) and faperj ( grant e-26/111.488/2013 ) .",
    "rvm acknowledges the following grants : cnpq-306885/2013 , capes / cofecub-2506/2015 , faperj / papdrj-45/2013 and faperj / cne/05 - 2015 .",
    "jibc acknowledges cnpq for a pq2 fellowship ( process number 308489/2013 - 6 ) .",
    "ado is thankful for the support of the capes ( bex 9110/12 - 7 ) faperj / papdrj ( e-26/200.464/2015 ) grants .",
    "argj thanks capes / brazil .",
    "arlot j .- e .",
    ", bernard a. , bouchet p. et al . , 1982 , a&a , 111 , 151 arlot j .- e . ,",
    "emelyanov n. v. , lainey v. et al . , 2012 ,",
    "a&a , 544 , a29 arlot j .- e . ,",
    "emelyanov n. v. , aslan z. et al . , 2013 ,",
    "a&a , 557 , a4 arlot j .- e . , emelyanov n. v. , varfolomeev m. i. et al . , 2014 ,",
    "a&a , 572 , a120 assafin m. , vieira - martins r. , braga - ribas f. et al . , 2009 , the astronomical journal , 137 , 4046 assafin m. et al . , 2011 , in gaia follow - up network for the solar system objects :",
    "gaia fun - sso workshop proceedings , held at imcce -paris observatory , france , november 29 - december 1 , 2010 .",
    "isbn 2 - 910015 - 63 - 7 , ed .",
    "p. tanga & w. thuillot , 8588 butcher e. & stevens r. , 1981 , news letter kitt peak national observatory , 16 , 6 crida a. & charnoz s. , 2012 , science , 338 , 1196 de sitter w. , 1928 , leiden ann .",
    ", 16 , 1 descamps p. , arlot j .- e . ,",
    "thuillot w. et al . , 1992 , icarus , 100 , 235 dias - oliveira a. , vieira - martins r. , assafin m. , et al . , 2013 , mnras , 432 , 225 emelyanov n. v. , 2003 , solar system research , 37(4 ) , 344 emelyanov n. v. , 2009 , mnras , 394 , 1037 emelyanov n. v. , andreev m. v. , berezhnoi a. a. et al . , 2011 , solar system research , 45(3 ) , 264 faure g. & mensing t. m. , 2007 , springer .",
    "green r. m. , 1985 , spherical astronomy , cambridge    harper d. , murray , c. d. , beurle , k. et al .",
    "1997 , a&as , 121 , 65 karkoschka e. , 1994 , icarus , 111 , 174 karkoschka e. , 1998 , icarus , 133 , 134 kiseleva t. p. , izmailov i. s. , kiselev a. a. et al .",
    ", 2008 , planet .",
    "space sci .",
    ", 56 , 1908 lainey v. , arlot j .- e . &",
    "vienne a. , 2004 , a&a , 427 , 371 lainey v. , arlot j. -e . , karatekin o. & van van hoolst t. , 2009 , nature , 459 , 957 lieske j. h. , 1987 , astron .",
    "astrophys . , 176 , 146    lindegren l. , 1977 , a&a , 57 , 55 mason b. d. , kaplan g. h. , douglas g. g. , et al . , 1999 , baas , 30 , 0509 pascu d. , 1994 , galactic and solar system optical astrometry .",
    "cambridge univ . press , cambridge ,",
    "p.304 peng q. y. , vienne a. , lainey v. & noyelles b. , 2008 , planet .",
    "space sci .",
    ", 419 , 1977 peng q. y. , he f. , lainey v. & vienne a. , 2012 , mnras , 56 , 1807 stone r. c. , 1996 , publications of the astronomical society of the pacific , 108 , 1051 stone r. c. , 2001 , the astronomical journal , 122 , 2723 veiga c. h. , vieira - martins , r. , veillet , c. & lazzaro , d. , 1987 , a&a , 70 , 325 veiga c. h. & vieira - martins r. , 1994 , a&a , 107 , 551 veillet c. & ratier g. , 1980 , a&a , 89 , 342 vienne , a. , thuillot , w. , veiga , c. h. , arlot , j .- e . & vieira - martins , r. , 2001 , a&a , 380 , 727"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> typically we can deliver astrometric positions of natural satellites with errors in the 50 - 150 mas range . </S>",
    "<S> apparent distances from mutual phenomena , have much smaller errors , less than 10 mas . </S>",
    "<S> however , this method can only be applied during the equinox of the planets . </S>",
    "<S> we developed a method that can provide accurate astrometric data for natural satellites  the mutual approximations . </S>",
    "<S> the method can be applied when any two satellites pass close by each other in the apparent sky plane . </S>",
    "<S> the fundamental parameter is the central instant @xmath0 of the passage when the distances reach a minimum .    </S>",
    "<S> we applied the method for the galilean moons . </S>",
    "<S> all observations were made with a 0.6 m telescope with a narrow - band filter centred at 889 nm with width of 15 nm which attenuated jupiter s scattered light . </S>",
    "<S> we obtained central instants for 14 mutual approximations observed in 2014 - 2015 . </S>",
    "<S> we determined @xmath0 with an average precision of 3.42 mas ( 10.43 km ) . for comparison </S>",
    "<S> , we also applied the method for 5 occultations in the 2009 mutual phenomena campaign and for 22 occultations in the 2014 - 2015 campaign . </S>",
    "<S> the comparisons of @xmath0 determined by our method with the results from mutual phenomena show an agreement by less than 1-sigma error in @xmath0 , typically less than 10 mas . </S>",
    "<S> this new method is particularly suitable for observations by small telescopes .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    methods : data analysis  astrometry  planets and satellites : individual : io , europa , ganymede , callisto . </S>"
  ]
}