{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years the 60-ghz band has garnered renewed interest among the research community due to its great potential to meet the increasing demand for affordable and ultra high - speed data relay connectivity .",
    "this spectrum band was initially considered exclusively for indoor use and wireless personal area network ( wpan ) communications with coverage distances of only a few meters .",
    "the main cause for such a consideration being oxygen s molecular resonance causing signals to fade much more rapidly with distance as compared to the current uhf / microwave bands .",
    "however , first the allocation of 7ghz of spectrum for unlicensed operation between 57 - 64 ghz by the federal communication commission ( fcc ) , and second the fcc regulations revision of part 15 rule allowing for higher transmission power for 60-ghz devices that operate outdoors @xcite , have made possible to balance the large attenuation factor by means of highly directive antenna gains in link budget calculations , which overcome the plight to produce large amounts of radio frequency power at mmwave with low - cost integrated circuits .",
    "this growing interest is further buttressed by the number of standardization activities ecma 387 ( 2008 ) , ieee 802.15.3c ( 2009 ) , wigig ( 2011 ) , ieee 802.11ad ( 2012) , study groups around wpan ( last ieee 802.11ay established in may 2015 ) or eu h2020 5g - ppp projects for mmwave fronthaul , backhaul and small cell access in ultra - dense deployments in future 5 g heterogeneous cellular networks ( e.g. miwave@xcite , mmmagic@xcite ) .      in mmwave band",
    "the use of highly directional antennas drastically reduces interference but it also leads to  deafness \" if transmitter and target receiver antenna boresights are not correctly oriented towards each other . in mmwave scns small cell base stations ( scbss ) and user equipments ( ues ) , endowed with steerable antennas , will have to undertake a beam alignment period , also referred as _ beam - searching _ or _ beam - training _ , before communication . the beamforming itself",
    "can be achieved by adopting analog , digital or hybrid architectures . until hybrid analog - digital beamforming ( allowing for reduced complexity while still providing multiplexing gains ) takes over in forthcoming standards like ieee 802.11ay ,",
    "analog beamforming architectures remain the choice for current mmwave wpan standards such as ieee 802.11ad @xcite and ieee 802.15.3c @xcite .",
    "similarly , albeit numerous alternatives that speed - up the beamforming protocol have been proposed in the recent literature , a simplified version of the 3-step beam codebook - based approach introduced by @xcite is employed due to its robustness , simplicity and compliance with ongoing standards . through a sequence of pilot transmissions and a trial - and - error approach , the two - staged beam alignment process ( encompassed by an initial coarse sector - level scanning and followed by a finer granularity beam - level search within the limits of elected sector ) yields refined beams orientation . as all possible combinations need to be explored , search space scales and so does induced overhead with 1 ) device mobility that would lead to sector hops and 2 ) with the product of sender - receiver beam resolution .    additionally , numerical results on interference analysis in highly directional links for outdoor mmwave networks in @xcite lead to the idea of a generalized _ pseudowired _ link abstraction governed by a noise - limited regime .",
    "by contrast , different mechanisms for interference mitigation in the context of mmwave are presented in @xcite .",
    "more recently , @xcite called into question the common belief that indoor mmwave wpans were also mainly noise - limited .",
    "it was argued that , either resorting to mimicking mac protocols from omnidirectional networks whose focus is set on interference management or , alternatively , essentially disregarding the effect of interference , accounted for current mmwave systems being significantly less bandwidth efficient than expected and producing data rates still one order of magnitude below the 100 gbps that ieee 802.11ay foresees for short range networks .      in this paper",
    "the above research line is addressed from a quantitative approach by studying how a fixed mmwave scn with relaying capabilities behaves for different relay ue densities under optimized transmission and reception operating beamwidths .",
    "it is shown that a swarm intelligence algorithm , specifically particle swarm optimization ( pso ) , converges to a solution that maximizes the average node throughput and evinces the existence of an interplay between the beam - training alignment overhead and the maximum achievable transmission rate @xcite .",
    "in particular , the pso beamwidth optimization process illustrates that unless beamwidths for each transmitter - receiver pair are carefully chosen , situations in which a non - negligible multiuser interference ( mui ) is present do happen even when very conservative resource allocation protocols , such as tdma that activates only one link at a time , are adopted in the transmitters .",
    "moreover , optimization results unveil that the burden imposed by scheduling and alignment delay into throughput calculations exceeds that of noise power or interference that seem no longer the limiting factors .",
    "finally , for each transmitter density , average achievable throughputs and interference levels under a holistic ` all on ' scheduling operation are provided as a reference .",
    "the rest of the paper is organized as follows : section ii delves into the system model and problem formulation . for the sake of completeness , section iii briefly oversees the fundamentals of our proposed pso solver approach and simulation setup .",
    "section iv presents and discusses simulation results .",
    "finally , section v concludes the paper by drawing conclusions and outlining some related lines of future research .",
    ".summary of main notations [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "this work has elaborated on the trade - off between alignment delay and interference mitigation and its impact on the overall throughput of relay - based mmwave downlink communications . in particular a centralized beamwidth optimization approach based on swarm intelligence has shown that the particular medium access strategy in use is crucial and restricts significantly the overall achievable throughput in mmwave systems .",
    "once the mac effect is smoothed , the alignment delay has been proven to dominate the effective throughput and can not be obviated any longer to resort to a traditional sinr centric optimization approach .",
    "the latter statement holds whenever an alignment procedure based on exhaustive angular search is implemented .",
    "this , in fact , motivates further research aimed at coupling beamwidth optimization with topology formation , as well as deriving novel alignment strategies with increased search efficiency .",
    "this work has been partially funded by the basque government under elkartek grant ref .",
    "kk-2015/0000080 .              ,",
    "`` ieee 802.15.3c part 15.3 : wireless medium access control ( mac ) and physical layer ( phy ) specifications for high rate wireless personal area networks ( wpans ) amendment 2 : millimeter - wave - based alternative physical layer extension , '' 2009 .",
    "j.  wang , z.  lan , c .- w .",
    "pyu , t.  baykas , c .- s .",
    "sum , m.  rahman , j.  gao , r.  funada , f.  kojima , h.  harada , s.  kato , `` beam codebook based beamforming protocol for multi - gbps millimeter - wave wpan systems , '' _ ieee j. sel .",
    "areas comm .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "27(8 ) , pp . 13901399 , 2009 .",
    "s.  singh , r.  mudumbai , and u.  madhow , `` interference analysis for highly directional 60-ghz mesh networks : the case for rethinking medium access control , '' _ ieee / acm trans .",
    "_ , vol .  19 , no .  5 , pp . 15131527 , 2011 .",
    "h.  shokri - ghadikolaei and c.  fischione , `` the transitional behavior of interference in millimeter wave networks and its impact on medium access control , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "pp , no .",
    "99 , pp . 11 , 2015 .",
    "t.  s. rappaport , g.  r. maccartney , m.  k. samimi , and s.  sun , `` wideband millimeter - wave propagation measurements and channel models for future wireless communication system design , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "63 , no .  9 , pp .",
    "30293056 , 2015 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> millimeter wave ( mmwave ) communications have been postulated as one of the most disruptive technologies for future 5 g systems . among mmwave bands </S>",
    "<S> the 60-ghz radio technology is specially suited for ultradense small cells and mobile data offloading scenarios . </S>",
    "<S> many challenges remain to be addressed in mmwave communications but among them deafness , or misalignment between transmitter and receivers beams , and interference management lie among the most prominent ones . in the recent years </S>",
    "<S> , scenarios considering negligible interference on mmwave resource allocation have been rather common in literature . to this end , interestingly , many open issues still need to be addressed such as the applicability of noise - limited regime for mmwave . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , in mmwave the beam - steering mechanism imposes a forced silence period , in the course of which no data can be conveyed , that should not be neglected in throughput / delay calculations . </S>",
    "<S> this paper introduces mmwave enabled small cell networks ( scns ) with relaying capabilities where as a result of a coordinated meta - heuristically optimized beamwidth / alignment - delay approach overall system throughput is optimized . </S>",
    "<S> simulations have been conveyed for three transmitter densities under tdma and nave ` all - on ' scheduling producing average per node throughput increments of up to 248% . </S>",
    "<S> the paper further elaborates on the off - balancing impact of alignment delay and time - multiplexing strategies by illustrating how the foreseen transition that increasing the number of transmitters produces in the regime of a fixed - node size scn in downlink operation fades out by a poor choice in the scheduling strategy . </S>"
  ]
}