{
  "article_text": [
    "the multiple successes of the @xmath0cdm concordance cosmology model are well known , with several independent lines of evidence supporting the model , such as observations of the temperature fluctuations in the cmb , large - scale structure statistics , weak and strong gravitational lensing due to galaxy clusters , and so on ( see e.g. @xcite and references therein ) . for further discussion of cosmological models",
    "see @xcite and @xcite . at smaller scales",
    ", however , the standard model of cosmology appears to exhibit certain deficiencies when confronted with observations @xcite , at least in so far as the predictions of @xmath0cdm cosmological simulations are concerned . among the various possible `` deficiencies '' of the model",
    "are : the missing satellites problem , and its sister problem of satellite halos that are `` too big to fail '' @xcite ; the possible planar arrangements , and co - rotation , of satellite galaxies around their hosts @xcite ; the diversity of dwarf galaxy rotation curves @xcite , more generally known as the `` cusp / core '' problem ; and the overabundance of field galaxies in @xmath0cdm @xcite .    most studies focus on the impact of an improved treatment of the baryonic physics in cosmological simulations as a remedy for these problems ( for a very recent study see @xcite , although see also @xcite ) , but physics beyond @xmath0cdm may also play a role .",
    "there has been much interest recently in such ideas , motivated by the ongoing puzzle of dark energy ( see @xcite for a review ) .",
    "typically a modification of gravity or some new matter content is invoked to explain the late - time acceleration of the universe , with potential impacts for non - linear structure formation ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "an alternative modified gravity proposal , that addresses the phenomenology of dark matter rather than dark energy , is modified newtonian dynamics , or mond @xcite .",
    "originally proposed as a means to obtain a galaxy rotation curve purely from its baryonic material ( i.e. without the need for dark matter ) the concept has been implemented in fully relativistic theories such as tensor - vector - scalar ( teves ) theory @xcite , generalised einstein - aether ( gea ) theory @xcite and bimetric mond @xcite amongst others . furthermore , the striking success of mond at small scales has prompted the consideration of exotic physics for dark matter itself @xcite .",
    "a thorough review of the mond paradigm may be found in @xcite .",
    "clearly , attempting to match the large - scale structure and cosmological successes of the standard model by replacing the cold dark matter component with a modification of gravity is an enormous challenge .",
    "the predictions of these relativistic theories for the cmb power spectrum have generally shown significant discrepancy with our observed universe @xcite . in order to test the effects of such theories on non - linear structure formation , however , we require numerical simulations using a mond gravity simulation code .",
    "such a code has been recently developed by modifying the gravitational solver of the well - known and popular amr code ramses @xcite .",
    "this mondified ramses , referred to as raymond @xcite , utilises an extended numerical stencil and a full approximation storage scheme for the gauss - siedel algorithm to solve the full non - linear modified poisson equation , proposed in @xcite .",
    "the fact that this equation may be derived from an aquadratic lagrangian ( thus ensuring momentum and energy conservation ) leads to the name aqual for this specific formulation of mond .",
    "in addition , the raymond code implements the quasi - linear formulation of mond developed specifically with numerical applications in mind , where two linear poisson equations are solved in succession , with a modified source term for the second equation .",
    "more details regarding the raymond code may be found in @xcite , as well as basic tests of the code as applied to galaxy simulations .",
    "for an alternative implementation of mond into the ramses code see the por code of @xcite .    in this work",
    "the applications of the raymond code will be extended to cosmology , and in particular an exploration of the differences in the behaviour of the velocity field in mond cosmologies and the standard @xmath0cdm model .",
    "the results of cosmological simulations using the qumond and aqual solvers will be compared , along with the effect of modifying the mond interpolation function , and the cosmological evolution of the mond acceleration scale .",
    "there have been several previous studies of structure formation in a cosmological context in mond , including @xcite .",
    "these studies have emphasised that , while the matter power spectrum at @xmath1 is generally achievable in mond ( given the right initial conditions ) , structure formation tends to start later and proceed more rapidly than in @xmath0cdm .",
    "furthermore , it is well known that mond can not explain the velocity dispersions of galaxy clusters , and that some amount of hidden mass is required .",
    "therefore , more recent studies of cosmology in mond have attempted to marry mond with a hot dark matter particle , in the form of a light ( @xmath2  ev ) sterile neutrino @xcite .",
    "the reason for choosing a hot dark matter particle is to ensure that it has a large enough free - streaming length so as not to spoil the effectiveness of mond at galaxy scales .",
    "unfortunately , this model overproduces high mass halos .    for this study , rather than attempt to find a cosmological solution that passes all observational tests",
    ", the focus will instead be on one potentially observable source of differences between mond and @xmath0cdm : the velocity field .",
    "a previous examination of bulk velocities in the qumond formulation with sterile neutrino dark matter was undertaken in @xcite .",
    "this study is also motivated by the fact that mond remains a surprisingly successful paradigm at galaxy scales . examining the consequences of such a modification of gravity at all scales",
    "is of considerable interest from the point - of - view of testing mond .",
    "furthermore , exploring outside the parameter space of @xmath0cdm provides an opportunity to search for possible model degeneracy and to potentially learn more about @xmath0cdm itself .",
    "this paper is organised as follows : in section [ mondcosmo ] the mond concept is briefly summarised , as applied to cosmology ; section [ sims ] discusses the important issue of initial conditions for the simulations , as well as the simulations themselves ; in section [ results ] the results are presented , with a comparison of the standard model and mond runs , along with a demonstration of the consequences of changing the interpolation function and the cosmological dependence of the mond acceleration scale , all with a particular focus on the velocity field .",
    "finally we conclude in section [ conclusions ] .",
    "cosmological simulations in mond must make several simplifying assumptions for practical reasons .",
    "a fully consistent mond cosmological simulation ( assuming that the primordial power spectrum is unchanged in a mond context ) would require the following steps : the initial power spectrum must be generated using a numerical boltzmann solver that applies cosmological perturbation theory to some relativistic mond theory ; the initial particle positions for the simulation must then be evolved to the starting redshift using the zeldovich approximation ( or higher order lagrangian perturbation theory ) adjusted to account for the mond behaviour ; and finally the non - linear structure must be evolved to @xmath1 using a mond n - body / hydrodynamics code .",
    "previous studies of mond cosmology have avoided the aforementioned issues by appealing to the fact that the early universe is expected to be within the newtonian regime on all scales , with the scale - dependent redshift of transition to the mond regime related to the value of the mond acceleration scale and the spectral index of the power spectrum @xcite . for smaller",
    "acceleration scales the universe remains newtonian until later times , and with a standard scalar spectral index of @xmath3 , _ large _ scales enter the mond regime before small scales .",
    "this study follows the usual approach to mond simulations by assuming a background evolution that closely matches @xmath0cdm , as well as a standard early - time evolution .",
    "the simulations use the aqual and qumond formulations , suitably modified to co - moving coordinates , adding an additional cosmological dependence on the mond scale to have newtonian behaviour at early times .",
    "possible deformations of the aqual or qumond formulations arising from a robust consideration of the non - relativistic limit of the fully relativistic mond theory will not be investigated , although such deformations are likely to be of considerable interest .",
    "the implementation of fully consistent mond cosmology simulations is therefore left for future work .",
    "the aqual and qumond formulations will now be summarised , along with their use in a cosmological context , beginning with the aqual formulation .",
    "the modification of gravity due to mond can be expressed in terms of a modified poisson equation given by @xmath4 = 4\\pi g \\rho\\ ] ] where @xmath5 is the gravitational potential , @xmath6 is the density , @xmath7 is the ( present - day ) mond acceleration scale and @xmath8 is a monotonically increasing function that interpolates between the newtonian and mond regimes . to achieve this interpolation @xmath8",
    "must have as limiting behaviour @xmath9 when @xmath10 and @xmath11 when @xmath12 .",
    "moving to the super co - moving coordinates used in ramses @xcite this equation becomes @xmath13 = \\frac{3}{2}\\omega_m \\left ( \\frac{\\rho}{\\bar{\\rho } } - 1 \\right)\\ ] ] where @xmath14 is the scale factor , and @xmath5 is the gravitational potential arising from the density perturbations .",
    "a useful family of interpolation functions that satisfy the limiting behaviour described above is given by @xmath15 where @xmath16 .",
    "a cosmological dependence may be added by making the mond scale a function of the scale factor . for this work ,",
    "the simple prescription of @xcite is used : @xmath17 where @xmath18 is some function of the scale factor .",
    "this function is chosen to be @xmath19 with @xmath20 or @xmath21 .",
    "the mond scale is therefore either a constant , or multiplied by some power of the scale factor .",
    "note the additional appearance of the scale factor in eq .",
    "[ cosmoaqual ] due to the transformation to co - moving coordinates .",
    "this use of @xmath18 allows a phenomenologically motivated non - trivial cosmological behaviour for the mond effect , which may arise from the full relativistic theory . for @xmath22",
    "it is clear that the mond scale is suppressed at early times , consistent with the use of standard initial conditions for the simulations .",
    "the qumond formulation recovers the mond phenomenology by using two poisson equations , solved consecutively .",
    "the first is the standard newtonian equation , while the second uses a modified source term , which may be interpreted as an additional density component , often referred to as `` phantom dark matter . ''",
    "this additional density is derived from the newtonian potential as follows : @xmath23\\ ] ] where @xmath7 is again the ( present - day ) mond scale , and @xmath24 is the newtonian gravitational potential calculated from the standard newtonian poisson equation . the function @xmath25 , where @xmath26 is the inverse of the interpolation function given in eq .",
    "[ mondinterp ] : @xmath27 transforming eq .",
    "[ phantomdm ] to super co - moving coordinates this becomes @xmath28,\\ ] ] where @xmath24 is the newontian potential arising from the density perturbations , neglecting the background .",
    "as for the aqual formulation , a cosmological dependence on the mond scale is incorporated by using @xmath29 for some chosen function of the scale factor @xmath18 , which is again taken to be eq .",
    "[ gamma ] with @xmath30 or @xmath21 .",
    "note that the `` phantom dark matter '' density may take negative values .    in all simulations @xmath31 m s@xmath32 .",
    "in addition to the possible implications of relativistic mond on the primordial perturbations , and the consequent impacts on observables such as the cmb , it is important to address the question of the initial conditions required for simulations of cosmological structure formation well into the non - linear regime . as stated earlier , the background cosmology will be assumed to be that given by general relativity , with @xmath33  ( km / s)/mpc , as well as standard gaussian primordial perturbations with a spectral index of @xmath34 . where the models in this study will depart from @xmath0cdm is in the choice of matter / energy content .    from the point - of - view of the original motivation of mond",
    ", it may seem appealing to neglect dark matter entirely , and only include baryons .",
    "this approach will fail , at least when using a standard gr cosmology at early times , as it is well known that the baryon - photon coupling before recombination results in a huge damping of structure on small scales , such that by @xmath1 there is no time for small - scale structure to form , even in a mond context .",
    "therefore a small amount of collisionless dark matter will be included in the simulations , and the baryonic material will be neglected ( i.e. these are collisionless n - body simulations without hydrodynamics ) .",
    "this approach may be partly justified by the expectation that , even in a mond universe , there is some non - baryonic dark matter .",
    "this is because galaxy clusters typically have accelerations beyond the mond regime @xcite , and thus any `` missing matter '' can not be accounted for by a modification of gravity , but only by the presence of additional mass , often taken to be in the form of a sterile neutrino @xcite .",
    "the observations of the cmb also strongly support the existence of additional non - baryonic matter . while some future relativistic mond theory may allow for initial conditions without any additional collisionless matter , such questions are beyond the scope of this study .",
    "in addition , the inclusion of baryons in the simulations implies the inclusion of sub - grid physics recipes with many adjustable parameters , and increased computational time . to avoid these complications",
    ", these preliminary simulations neglect the baryons .    cdm model and the mond models .",
    "the dashed black lines indicate @xmath35 and @xmath36  gyr.,width=264 ]    due to the lower matter content in the mond simulations , the dark energy component must be removed completely ( i.e. @xmath37 in all the mond simulations ) to ensure that the background expansion is approximately consistent with that of @xmath0cdm , as the mond models will then have a large contribution from the curvature component to the background evolution .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ bgndevolution ] where the time evolution of the scale factor is shown for the parameters used in our @xmath0cdm model compared with those used for the mond models .",
    "the vertical dashed black line is set at @xmath36  gyr , while the horizontal dashed black line is at @xmath35 .",
    "clearly the background evolution is very similar in both cases , and so any differences in structure formation are almost entirely due to the modification of gravitational clustering in mond , and not because of a modified expansion history .",
    "one may consider these choices of parameters as those required to ensure an `` effective '' mond cosmology , given the absence of a fully consistent mond cosmological model .     by music.,width=264 ]    the transfer functions used to determine the initial power spectra are generated using camb @xcite for the matter content appropriate to each simulation .",
    "these transfer functions are then used to generate the initial conditions at @xmath38 using the music code @xcite .",
    "the normalisation of the power spectrum in music for the mond simulations is set to @xmath39 , while the @xmath0cdm simulation uses @xmath40 .",
    "it should be noted that there is no physical content to the use of @xmath41 for the mond simulations , as this parameter assumes a linear power spectrum evolved using a standard cosmological model .",
    "the resulting normalised transfer functions used in music are shown in fig .",
    "[ transferfunctions ] . the standard @xmath0cdm simulation in newtonian gravity ( with typical choices for the cosmological parameters , given in table [ simparamstable ] )",
    "is run using the upper transfer function , while the simulations using mond gravity with a significantly reduced matter content use the lower transfer function .",
    "the latter is clearly significantly suppressed in comparison to that of a standard cdm content .",
    "even with this much reduced initial power spectrum , the mond gravitational enhancement is able to form a comparable amount of small - scale structure at @xmath1 , in addition to a slight excess of large - scale structure .    in summary ,",
    "the rationale for these initial conditions is that the mond simulations reproduce reasonably well the amount of structure formed in @xmath0cdm by @xmath1 ( as measured by the power spectrum ) , making the density field an _ a posteriori _ fitted quantity .",
    "the velocity fields are then studied for possible observational signatures of mond .",
    "firstly , the differences between a standard @xmath0cdm simulation and the two mond formulations included in the raymond code , aqual and qumond , are studied .",
    "these simulations use the so - called `` simple '' mond interpolation function , given by eq .",
    "[ mondinterp ] with @xmath42 .",
    "in addition , the effects of a more rapid transition between the newtonian and mondian regimes are studied by using eq .  [ mondinterp ] with @xmath43 in a qumond run .",
    "these simulations will be referred to as @xmath0cdm ( or the standard model ) , aqual , qumond and qumondn5 respectively .",
    "all of these simulations use @xmath44 in eq .",
    "[ gamma ] . to test the effects of changing the cosmological dependence of the mond scale ,",
    "two additional aqual simulations are run , one where @xmath45 in eq .",
    "[ gamma ] ( i.e. no cosmological dependence ) , and one where @xmath46 ( i.e. a rapid cosmological transition ) .",
    "these simulations are referred to as aqualnocd and aqualfastcd respectively .",
    "the removal of any cosmological dependence for the mond scale in the aqualnocd run violates the assumption that the universe is newtonian at the time of the initial conditions , but the results of this simulation are nevertheless illuminating .",
    "all simulations use a co - moving box size of @xmath47  mpc , with @xmath48 particles . although this is a small box size , it is sufficient for the purposes of comparison between the models . for the @xmath0cdm simulations the particle mass is @xmath49 , while for the mond simulations , due to the reduced matter content , the particle mass is @xmath50 .",
    "all the simulation parameters are summarised in table  [ simparamstable ] .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     it is worth pointing out that the reduction in the velocity field seen in the highest density bin in fig .",
    "[ avgdensvel ] is not reflected in the halo velocities in the `` dense '' environments . of course , these quantities are very different : the highest density points in the dtfe - extracted grid correspond to the most virialised regions of the density field , i.e. to the particles that are forming the most massive halos , rather than the coherent motion of a virialised halo itself .",
    "the halo velocities are essentially a coarse - graining of the particle velocity field , and therefore can not probe the highest density regions in the same manner as the underlying particles . substantially increasing the resolution of these simulations , it is possible that low mass halos within a high density cluster would exhibit the reduced velocity enhancement shown for the high density bins in fig .",
    "[ avgdensvel ] .",
    "the testing of this possibility is left for future work .",
    "@xcite addresses the possible observational impact of mond on bulk velocities , claiming that mond may be more consistent with observations of a large scale high - velocity `` dark flow '' ( such as those of @xcite ) than the @xmath0cdm model .",
    "it is also claimed that the high collision velocities of interacting clusters such as the bullet cluster may be more explainable in the context of mond , rather than @xmath0cdm . in order to directly compare with observations , @xcite derived the bulk velocities by extracting a cosmological evolution from the cluster velocities , and taking into account the apparent redshifts of clusters with respect to a chosen observer cluster in the simulation volume .    in this work , the bulk velocity ( average magnitude of the velocity field ) is calculated according to the prescription of @xcite . while this is less directly comparable with observations , the main concern here is a comparison with the standard @xmath0cdm model , and the impact of modifications of the mond behaviour .    following @xcite , the average magnitude of the velocity field ( as sampled by the particles themselves , i.e. not extracted to the regular dtfe grid ) in the simulation volume is calculated within spheres of different radii , where the sphere locations are randomly assigned .",
    "this gives rise to a systematic overestimate of the bulk velocities due to some of the spheres ( particularly the larger ones ) sampling close to the boundary of the simulation volume , where periodic boundary conditions are applied , giving rise to a repeated pattern of velocity measurements .",
    "this error applies to all the models of this study , however , and so is not of concern as long as no attempt is made to compare the simulation results to observations .",
    "the measured bulk velocities in the @xmath51 and @xmath35 snapshots as a function of sphere radius are given in fig .",
    "[ bulkvel ] .",
    "as shown before , the mond modification of gravity leads to a significant enhancement of the bulk velocities at late times , with respect to @xmath0cdm . for the aqualfastcd model",
    "the velocity enhancement is weaker , due to the mond effect being suppressed for a longer time in the simulation .",
    "nonetheless , there is an appreciable enhancement with respect to the standard model , with the bulk velocities being over @xmath52 times larger . at early times",
    ", the suppression of the mond scale in aqualfastcd maintains very low bulk velocities , some @xmath53 of the @xmath0cdm values .",
    "the qumondn5 model is comparable to the standard model , while the aqual and qumond runs are already showing higher bulk velocities than the standard model .",
    "this should be contrasted with the development of the density field , where the aqual and qumond runs lag behind @xmath0cdm , only catching up by late times .",
    "note that the bulk velocities associated to the aqualnocd model at @xmath51 are not plotted , as the average across all sphere radii is @xmath54  km / s , approximately @xmath55 times higher than the standard model at this epoch .",
    "these results also demonstrate that the bulk velocities in the mond models change rapidly as the universe evolves , increasing with time , in contrast to the far less pronounced evolution of the bulk velocities in the @xmath0cdm run .",
    "this is made more explicit in fig .",
    "[ velocity_function ] where the median halo velocities at four different redshifts for the @xmath0cdm , aqual , qumond , qumondn5 and aqualfastcd models are shown .",
    "it is clear that the mond models all show a fast growth of the halo velocities as the universe evolves , with suppression of this effect in the qumondn5 and aqualfastcd models for the same reason as discussed earlier : the gravitational accelerations are typically less mondian in these models , due to the more rapid transition function in the former case , and due to the suppression of the mond scale in the latter .        these results may be compared with fig . 4 of @xcite .",
    "in that work , the median velocities for @xmath56 are far higher than those shown here , in excess of @xmath57  km / s .",
    "two major differences between the present simulations and those of @xcite are likely to be most responsible for the discrepancies in velocities .",
    "the first is the different initial conditions .",
    "the models of this study have a much reduced matter content in order to approximately match the power spectrum of the @xmath0cdm model at @xmath58 , whereas the models of @xcite are instead based on initial conditions that provide a consistent background cosmology , as well as reproducing the cmb angular power spectrum .",
    "these requirements effectively lead to a direct replacement of cold dark matter with sterile neutrino dark matter , i.e. @xmath59 in that work , somewhat similar to the value of @xmath60 for the @xmath0cdm model used here .",
    "the main advantage of a sufficiently light ( or hot ) sterile neutrino , however , is that the free - streaming length ensures there is very little clustering on galaxy scales , where pure mond ( without any additional unseen mass ) is most effective . as reported in @xcite the problem of including this additional dark matter content is a significant overproduction of very massive halos .",
    "furthermore , based on our results , it is highly likely that the much higher halo velocities seen in @xcite are due to this increased matter content leading to steeper potential wells , which still undergo a mond enhancement , and thus even faster accelerations that lead to much higher velocities .",
    "the second major difference is the far smaller volume of our simulation : only @xmath61  mpc@xmath62 , compared to @xmath63  mpc@xmath62 in @xcite .",
    "thus it is not possible to make a direct comparison of the bulk flow measurements of @xcite as the box size used here is far smaller , leading to far less large - scale structure in the simulations .",
    "as the bulk flows appear to be dominated by larger structures , it is likely that higher velocities would be achieved in the present simulations when using a larger box size .",
    "observational studies of bulk flows and the velocity field in general do not yet present a consistent picture on all scales .",
    "large scale measurements using the kinematic sunyaev - zeldovich ( ksz ) effect with the hot gas content of galaxy clusters have suggested very large scale bulk flows with amplitudes far in excess of that expected for @xmath0cdm @xcite .",
    "other studies , however , find contradictory results @xcite .",
    "although simulated bulk flow measurements in a larger cosmological volume may be larger than reported here , it is striking that the velocities in fig .",
    "[ bulkvel ] are at the low end of the estimated bulk flow range reported in @xcite of around @xmath64  km / s .",
    "it should be noted , however , that the length scale considered in @xcite is @xmath65h@xmath66mpc , an order of magnitude larger than the largest scales probed in the present simulations .",
    "a more recent study by @xcite , using galaxy luminosities in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) @xcite to determine bulk flow measurements out to @xmath67 , found velocities fully consistent with @xmath0cdm .",
    "similarly , the study by @xcite using peculiar velocity data from the 6df galaxy survey @xcite ( probing scales of @xmath68h@xmath66mpc ) also found no inconsistency with the standard cosmological model .",
    "in addition , the use of type ia supernovae data to determine bulk flows @xcite also supports the @xmath69cdm model .",
    "these observations thus present a challenge to a mondian cosmology of the form examined in this study .",
    "one may wish to appeal to a late - time `` switching on '' of the mond effect to avoid excessive acceleration of structure inflows at early times . despite the delayed onset of the mond effect in the aqualfastcd simulation ,",
    "however , the bulk velocities are still approximately twice those of @xmath0cdm , and not consistent with the aforementioned measurements of bulk flows .",
    "high velocity galaxy cluster collisions , such as the bullet cluster and abell 520 @xcite , also present a complex picture for both @xmath0cdm and mond . while it is possible to accommodate high collision velocities more easily in mond , as we have seen",
    ", it is unclear precisely how rare such configurations may be .",
    "the velocity enhancement in a mond cosmology shifts the mean of the halo velocity distribution higher , implying more very high velocity halos in the tail .",
    "thus bullet cluster - type collisions in mond may not be as rare as in @xmath0cdm",
    ". it would be interesting to compare the statistical likelihood of such systems in the two models .",
    "the bullet cluster , however , has traditionally been seen as problematic for mond due to gravitational lensing maps that imply the existence of considerable amounts of invisible mass with a large offset from the visible baryonic material . assuming a purely baryonic content for a mond galaxy cluster",
    ", this would indeed be difficult to accommodate .",
    "if galaxy clusters in mond also contain some additional unseen mass , however , it may yet be possible to reconcile bullet cluster - type systems with the mond paradigm .",
    "the recently developed mondification of the ramses simulation code , raymond , has been applied to cosmology to examine the behaviour of non - linear structure formation in modified newtonian dynamics , with particular emphasis on the large - scale velocity field .",
    "while these simulations are far from conclusive studies of mond cosmology , they nonetheless suggest that the strongest differences between @xmath0cdm and mond in structure formation studies are likely to be in observational reconstructions of the velocity field .",
    "these results also conclusively demonstrate that the cosmological aspects of the ramses code are fully compatible with the modified gravity solver of raymond , which succeeds in dealing with the peculiar nature of a cosmological simulation : very small density perturbations at early times with associated weak gravitational fields .",
    "this is a non - trivial test as such weak gravitational fields , having very small gradients , can lead to numerical difficulties in the non - linear aqual formulation .",
    "the results presented in this work show that the raymond solver handles this well .",
    "furthermore , the use of the non - linear full approximation storage scheme for the gauss - siedel solver in raymond is a well - known general technique applicable to many other modified gravity models , as well as models of dark energy coupled to dark matter / baryons .",
    "this is because the non - relativistic equation of motion of the dark energy scalar field is typically non - linear @xcite .",
    "therefore , the modifications made to ramses to produce raymond are presently being adapted to apply to coupled dark energy / dark matter models ( candlish et al .",
    ", in prep ) .",
    "several major caveats apply to this work , with the first and foremost being the use of an unrealistic background cosmology ( no dark energy ) in order to use initial conditions with a substantially reduced matter content . in doing so",
    ", it is possible to reproduce the amount of structure ( at least at smaller scales ) produced in a standard @xmath0cdm simulation with the aqual and qumond runs .",
    "the fact that the initial conditions use a reduced matter content requires the removal of the effect of the cosmological constant from the models , and the use of the curvature component to roughly match the cosmological evolution of the scale factor to that of the standard model . while this is far from ideal",
    ", it is not currently possible to apply a known successful background mond cosmology to the problem of structure formation .",
    "therefore , this issue has been bypassed by assuming that some underlying relativistic mond theory can indeed give rise to a sensible background cosmology , while at the same time the mond effect plays a role in forming structures at late times .",
    "this study then focussed on the principal differences between the progression of mond and @xmath0cdm structure formation .",
    "another important caveat is that no baryons have been included in these simulations . in a mond context",
    "this is certainly a major omission , and it remains to be seen how the inclusion of baryons and baryonic processes affects the development of structure in such cosmologies and , even more significantly , the formation and evolution of galaxies .    finally , although three possible forms for a cosmological dependence in the mond scale have been studied , the chosen prescription for that dependence ( eq .  [ gamma ] ) is arbitrary , and may well differ substantially in a more complete mond cosmology .",
    "it is also possible that time - dependent effects on non - cosmological timescales arise from a full mond theory , modifying the nature of the mond enhancement of the gravitational force , for example in galaxy collisions @xcite .",
    "the fact that the aqual and qumond models lead to significantly larger velocities than the @xmath0cdm model , coupled with the results of the aqualfastcd model , where a suppressed mond effect until late times still leads to enhanced velocities at @xmath35 , leads to the central conclusion of this work : the use of mond to form structure in a universe with a reduced matter content requires the enhancement of the velocity field well beyond that seen in @xmath0cdm , potentially leading to a clear , unambiguous , observational test of mond . in other words , if the large - scale measured velocity fields in the universe can be unambiguously determined to be considerably higher than those of @xmath0cdm , this could constitute strong evidence in favour of some kind of modification of gravity in the manner of mond , assuming that there is little room for major adjustment of the cosmological parameters of the standard model given constraints from other observables .",
    "given the present uncertainties regarding a complete mond cosmology , there is a possibility that an alternative theory of mond would produce a velocity field significantly different from that presented in this work .",
    "while such a possibility can not be ruled out , the requirement of reproducing the successes of the standard mond paradigm at galaxy scales is likely a stringent one for any future mond model .",
    "if we assume that we do indeed live in a mond universe , then the precise transition between a fully relativistic mond cosmology at early times , successfully reproducing observables such as the cmb power spectrum , to the present - day dm - free ( at small scales ) mond universe must occur at some point in the evolution of the universe .",
    "the results of this study suggest that an enhanced velocity field is inevitable , unless this transition can be somehow engineered to occur at a very late time ( although even the aqualfastcd model showed significant velocity enhancement by @xmath1 ) .",
    "examinations of such possibilities beyond the standard mond paradigm must remain the subject of future studies .",
    "it is worth pointing out , of course , that there is a degeneracy here : a suppressed mond effect may be counterbalanced by an increased initial matter content , as we have seen with the aqualfastcd model being `` in between '' the aqual and @xmath0cdm runs .",
    "of course , this is really a sliding scale , interpolating between the use of more matter ( specifically dark matter ) in order to produce the requisite structure with a weaker gravitational force , or using less matter and enhancing gravity .",
    "on the basis of this study , however , it appears to be extremely difficult to `` tune the dials '' in such a way that the matter content is reduced , with gravity enhanced through mond , giving comparable present - day structure as the benchmark @xmath0cdm model , _ without _ significantly enhancing the velocity field as well .",
    "the most extreme possibility , within the context of the standard mond paradigm , would be to suppress the mond effect throughout most of the cosmological evolution , and then to ensure its dominance at galaxy scales at very late times .",
    "this would require sufficient matter content to form structure in a non - enhanced gravitational field , with a suppression of structure at small ( galaxy ) scales so as not to spoil the late - time mond behaviour .",
    "these results are also consistent with the results of @xcite .",
    "although the velocities in the simulations studied here are likely lower than they would be given a larger cosmological volume , the very high velocities seen in the simulations of @xcite using sterile neutrinos ( constrained to match cmb observations and the background expansion history ) are also closely linked to the increased matter content , which also leads to an excess of large scale structure .",
    "furthermore , there are hints that even in the reduced matter content of the simulations employed here , there is some overproduction of structure on larger scales",
    ". it would be interesting to see if a modified cosmological dependence of the mond acceleration scale , in conjunction with the suppression of small scale structure of the sterile neutrino dm model used in @xcite , can help to resolve these issues .",
    "thus the challenge of accounting for all the cosmological observables in a fully consistent mond theory remains .",
    "one very interesting aspect of the present investigation that deserves further study is the apparent dependence on the local density of the velocity enhancement effect .",
    "the results of this study , using both the velocity fields on the regular grids extracted by dtfe , and the halo analysis , suggest that the largest differences between @xmath0cdm and mond velocity fields are likely to be found in the _ surroundings _ of dense environments , i.e. the edges of voids , near filaments and possibly in galaxy cluster outskirts .",
    "to fully examine this possibility will require much higher resolution simulations than have been performed here . furthermore",
    ", observational studies of the dynamics of structure formation in these regions , while challenging , are becoming increasingly possible thanks to modern observational capabilities .",
    "comparisons between such observations and high resolution simulations in modified gravity will continue to provide a useful tool in testing the @xmath0cdm model .",
    "the author wishes to thank the anonymous referee for helpful comments that improved the paper .",
    "the author also wishes to thank brad gibson and rory smith for helpful comments and suggestions , and alex knebe for useful correspondence .",
    "the author gratefully acknowledges the support of fondecyt grant 3130480 and from the center for astrophysics and associated technologies cata ( pfb 06 ) .",
    "angus g.  w. , diaferio a. , 2011 , mnras , 417 , 941 angus g.  w. , diaferio a. , famaey b. , van der heyden k.  j. , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 202 atrio - barandela f. , kashlinsky a. , ebeling h. , fixsen d.  j. , kocevski d. , 2015 , apj , 810 , 143 bekenstein j.d . , 2004 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 70 , 083509 bekenstein j. and milgrom m. , 1984 , apj , 286 , 7 berezhiani l. and khoury j. , 2015 , phys .",
    "d , 92 , 10 blanchet l. and heisenberg l. , 2015 , jcap , 12 , 026 boylan - kolchin m. , bullock j.  s. , kaplinghat m. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , l40 brax p. , davis a .- c . , li b. , winther h.  a. , zhao g .-",
    "b . , 2012 , jcap , 10 , 002 bull p. , akrami y. , adamek j. , baker t. , bellini e. , beltrn jimnez j. , bentivegna e. , camera s. , et al . , 2016 , physics of the dark universe , 12 , 56 candlish g.  n. , smith r. , fellhauer m. , 2015 , mnras , 446 , 1060 cautun m.  c. , van de weygaert r. , 2011 , astrophysics source code library 1105.003 , arxiv:1105.0370 clowe d. , gonzalez a. , markevitch m. , 2004 , apj , 604 , 596 clowe d. , markevitch m. , bradac m. , gonzalez a.  h. , chung s.m . , massey r. , zaritsky d. , 2012 , apj , 758 , 128 colombi s. , jaffe a. , novikov d. , pichon c. , 2009 , mnras , 393 , 511 famaey b. , mcgaugh s.  s. , 2012 , living reviews in relativity , 15 fan j. , katz a. , randall l. , reece m. , 2013 , phys .",
    ", 110 , 21 feindt u. , kerschhaggl m. , kowalski m. , aldering g. , antilogus p. , aragon c. , et al . , 2013 , a&a , 560 , a90 feix m. , nusser a. , branchini e. , 2014 , jcap , 1409 , 019",
    "hahn o. and abel t. , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 2101 jee m.  j. , hoekstra h. , mahdavi a. , babul a. , 2014 , apj , 783 , 78 jenkins a. , frenk c.  s. , pearce f.  r. , thomas p.  a. , colberg j.  m. , white s.  d.  m. , couchman h.  m.  p. , peacock j.  a. , efstathiou g. , nelson a.  h. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 20 jiang f. , van den bosch f.  c. , 2015 , mnras , 453 , 3575 jones d.  h. , saunders w. , colless m. , read m.  a. , parker q.  a. , watson f.  g. , et al .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , 355 , 747 kashlinsky a. , atrio - barandela f. , kocevski d. , ebeling h. , 2008 , apjl , 686 , l49 katz h. , mcgaugh s. , teuben p. , angus g.  w. , 2013 , apj , 772 , 10 klypin a. , karachentsev i. , makarov d. , nasonova o. , 2015 , mnras , 454 , 1798 knebe a. , gibson b.  k. , 2004 , mnras , 347 , 1055 knollmann s.  r. , knebe a. , 2009 , apjs , 182 , 608 kraljic d. , sarkar s. , 2015 , jcap , 4 , 050 kroupa p. , famaey b. , de boer k.  s. , dabringhausen j. , pawlowski m.  s. , boily c.  m. , jerjen h. , forbes d. , et al . , 2010 , a&a , 523 , a32 kroupa p. , 2012 ,",
    "pasa , 29 , 395 kroupa p. , 2015 ,",
    "canadian journal of physics , 93 , 169 lage c. , farrar g. , 2014 , apj , 787 , 144 lage c. , farrar g.  r. , 2015 , jcap , 2 , 038 lewis a. , challinor a. , lasenby a. , 2000 , apj , 538 , 473 , _ http://camb.info _",
    "llinares c. , knebe a. , zhao h. , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 1778 lghausen f. , famaey b. , kroupa p. , 2015",
    ", canadian journal of physics , 93 , 232 mahdavi a. , hoekstra h. , babul a. , balam d. , capak p. , 2007",
    ", apj , 668 , 806 markevitch m. , gonzalez a.  h. , david l. , vikhlinin a. , murray s. , forman w. , jones c. , tucker w. , 2002 , apjl , 567 , l27 martel h. , shapiro p.  r. , 1998 , mnras , 297 , 467 mastropietro c. , burkert a. , 2008 , mnras , 389 , 967 milgrom m. , 1983 , apj , 270 , 365 milgrom m. , 2009 , phys .",
    "d , 80 , 123536 mo h. , van den bosch f.  c. , white s. , 2010 , `` galaxy formation and evolution , '' cambridge university press nusser a. , 2002 , mnras , 331 , 909 oman k.  a. , navarro j.  f. , fattahi a. , frenk c.  s. , sawala t. , white s.  d.  m. , bower r. , crain r.  a. , furlong m. , schaller m. , schaye j. , theuns t. , 2015 , mnras , 452 , 3650 pawlowski m.  s. , kroupa p. , 2013",
    ", mnras , 435 , 2116 pawlowski m.  s. , famaey b. , jerjen h. , merritt d. , kroupa p. , dabringhausen j. , lghausen f. , forbes d.  a. , hensler g. , hammer f. , puech m. , fouquet s. , flores h. , yang y. , 2014 , mnras , 442 , 2362 pawlowski m.  s. , famaey b. , merritt d. , kroupa p. , 2015",
    ", apj , 815 , 19 planck collaboration , ade p.  a.  r. , aghanim n. , arnaud m. , ashdown m. , aumont j. , baccigalupi c. , balbi a. , banday a.  j. , barreiro r.  b. , et al . , planck intermediate results xiii , 2014 , a&a , 561 , a97 planck collaboration , ade p.  a.  r. , aghanim n. , arnaud m. , ashdown m. , aumont j. , baccigalupi c. , banday a.  j. , barreiro r.  b. , bartlett j.  g. , et al . , planck 2015 results xiii , 2015",
    ", arxiv:1502.01589 sanders r.  h. , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 901 sanders r.  h. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 331 sawala t. , frenk c.  s. , fattahi a. , navarro j.  f. , bower r.  g. , crain r.  a. , et al . , 2016 , mnras , 457 , 1931 schaap w.  e. , van de weygaert r. , 2000 , a&a , 363 , l29 scrimgeour m.  i. , davis t.  m. , blake c. , staveley - smith l. , magoulas c. , springob c.  m. , 2016 , mnras , 455 , 386 skordis c. , mota d.  f. , ferreira p.  g. , bhm c. , 2006 , phys . rev .",
    "96 , 011301 teyssier r. , 2002 , a&a , 385 , 337 van de weygaert r. , schaap w. , `` the cosmic web : geometric analysis '' , data analysis in cosmology , 2009 , lecture notes in physics , vol .",
    "665 , berlin springer verlag weinberg , 2008 , `` cosmology , '' oxford university press weinberg d.h .",
    ", bullock j.s . , governato f. , kuzio de naray r. , peter a.h.g . , 2015 , pnas , 112 , 12249 york d.  g. , adelman j. , anderson jr .",
    "j.  e. , anderson , s.  f. , annis , j. , bahcall , n.  a. , 2000 , aj , 120 , 1579 zhao h. , li b. , 2010 , apj , 712 , 130 zlosnik t.  g. , ferreira p.  g. , starkman g.  d. , 2006 , phys .",
    "d , 74 , 044037"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the recently developed code for n - body / hydrodynamics simulations in modified newtonian dynamics ( mond ) , known as raymond , is used to investigate the consequences of mond on structure formation in a cosmological context , with a particular focus on the velocity field . </S>",
    "<S> this preliminary study investigates the results obtained with the two formulations of mond implemented in raymond , as well as considering the effects of changing the choice of mond interpolation function , and the cosmological evolution of the mond acceleration scale . </S>",
    "<S> the simulations are contrived such that structure forms in a background cosmology that is similar to @xmath0cdm , but with a significantly lower matter content . </S>",
    "<S> given this , and the fact that a fully consistent mond cosmology is still lacking , we compare our results with a standard @xmath0cdm simulation , rather than observations . as well as demonstrating the effectiveness of using raymond for cosmological simulations , it is shown that a significant enhancement of the velocity field is likely an unavoidable consequence of the gravitational modification implemented in mond , and may represent a clear observational signature of such a modification . </S>",
    "<S> it is further suggested that such a signal may be clearest in intermediate density regions such as cluster outskirts and filaments .    </S>",
    "<S> gravitation , methods : numerical , cosmology </S>"
  ]
}