{
  "article_text": [
    "the nearby dwarf galaxies of the local group are unique probes of galaxy formation and evolution over the entire history of the universe .",
    "their proximity allows the study of their stellar , gaseous , and dark matter contents in unparalleled detail .",
    "however , they are not pristine , primeval systems , and their evolution is dependent upon both local and cosmic environmental factors . thus , it is of tremendous importance to disentangle these effects for nearby galaxies and interpret them in a wider cosmological context . in currently favored hierarchical structure formation models , density fluctuations on the scale of dwarf galaxies collapse early and merge to form larger structures .",
    "however , the accretion of gas and its conversion to stars in dwarf galaxies is complicated and poorly understood , particularly at the earliest times .",
    "cosmological simulations predict vastly more surviving dwarf galaxy sized halos than the number of observed dwarfs around the milky way ( mw ) and m31 (  the missing satellites problem ,",
    " e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". the missing satellites problem can not be solved by simply discovering more faint satellites to the milky way as emphasized in the `` too big to fail '' problem @xcite which is repeated again for m31 @xcite .",
    "it seems clear that not all of these dark matter halos can retain baryons and form stars .",
    "processes such as cosmic reionization ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and stellar feedback ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are invoked to suppress star formation or remove the gas from some subset of dark matter halos .",
    "environmental effects are clearly important for the evolution of low - mass systems in the local group .",
    "gas - poor , pressure - supported dwarf spheroidal galaxies ( dsphs ) are preferentially found as satellites of the mw and m31 , whereas gas - rich , rotating dwarf irregulars ( dirrs ) are preferentially found in isolated locales ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "additionally , the closest mw dsph companions ( distances @xmath3 100 kpc ) have exclusively old stars with ages @xmath4 10 gyr , while those more distant can show prominent young and intermediate - age stellar populations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and thus present a large variety of star formation histories ( sfhs ) .",
    "it is not clear whether this configuration is a generic outcome of hierarchical structure formation models or a result of specific factors in the milky way s history . through detailed dynamical modeling ,",
    "@xcite have shown that `` tidal stirring '' can remove most of the gas from a dwarf galaxy and transform rotationally supported systems into pressure supported systems . however , the existence of the isolated dsphs cetus and tucana , shown to be as old as the oldest mw companions @xcite , point toward a multi - parameter process .",
    "very sophisticated models are being used to explore the environmental impacts on the evolution of dwarf galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in addition , there is growing recognition that studying the nearest galaxies provides an observational window on high redshift galaxy evolution that even the next generation of high redshift galaxy surveys will not be able to provide ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "thus , it follows that obtaining observations of the nearest galaxies which provide strong constraints on their lifetime sfhs is critical to our progress .    until very recently",
    ", the companions of the mw have been the only satellite dsphs with robust derivations of their sfhs at _ intermediate and old ages . _ the early sfhs of galaxies can only be revealed by observing resolved stars down to and below the oldest main sequence turn - off ( omsto ) ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "considering the unique role of the mw satellites as cosmological probes , it is vitally important that we understand whether their early sfhs are representative of satellite dsphs in the wider universe .",
    "the islands project is the first opportunity to test the representative nature of the early sfhs of the mw dsphs by obtaining complete , detailed sfhs for a representative sample of m31 satellites , the only other galaxy satellite system for which this is possible with the presently available technology .",
    "our overall goal is to determine if the early evolution of the m31 companions is significantly different from the mw companions , and , if so , to determine the local or cosmic factors at play .",
    "thus , we can address the question : `` are the dsph companions to the mw truly representative of dsph galaxies in general ? ''",
    "is there any reason to suspect that the satellite populations of m31 and the mw could be significantly different ?",
    "there are significant differences between the properties of m31 and the mw @xcite indicating that their mass assembly histories were likely different .",
    "m31 is generally assumed to be more massive , but the analysis of @xcite argues that the two may have very similar halo masses .",
    "m31 is thought to be an earlier type spiral , but @xcite revealed m31 to have a boxy bulge , indicative of a bar , and making m31 a twin of the mw in that regard . @xcite point out that m31 possesses a significant population of luminous and compact globular clusters ( gcs ) at large galactocentric radii without counterparts in the mw , and that m31 also has a number of extended gcs , many of which are far larger than those in the mw .",
    "they suggest that the differences between the two gc systems could be , at least partly , explained by the differing accretion histories that m31 and mw have experienced .",
    "m31 appears to be the more massive and more evolved galaxy ; yet , recent accretion appears to be more important for m31 than for the mw ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ".        the differences between m31 and the mw may extend to their satellite populations .",
    "the presence of the true de galaxy m32 , a relatively rare occurrence in nature ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , indicates that something special has taken place in andromeda s satellite history , but exactly what remains a topic for debate .",
    "the sfh for m32 derived by @xcite shows a nearly constant star formation rate up until 2 gyr ago producing stars with nearly solar metallicities .",
    "another possible difference is the presence of the more luminous dsphs ngc  147 , ngc  185 , and ngc 205 . at m@xmath5 @xmath6 @xmath714.6 , @xmath714.8 , and @xmath716.5 ,",
    "respectively , they are one to three magnitudes brighter than the mw s",
    "brightest dsphs , fornax and sagittarius , at m@xmath5 @xmath6 @xmath713.4 and @xmath713.5 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* although as a tidally disrupting galaxy , the luminosity for sagittarius may represent a lower limit ) . this may be an indication of something significantly different in the formation of dsphs , or it may simply be the natural extension to higher luminosities in a more abundant population . @xcite",
    "have produced sfhs for ngc  147 and ngc  185 and found ngc  147 to have continued to produce stars well into intermediate ages while ngc  185 contains mostly older stars .",
    "however , the direct interpretation of these sfhs is complicated by the positions of the observed fields beyond the half - light radii ; the extremities often show exclusively older stars even in actively star forming dwarfs .",
    "so the apparent surprise is the extended nature of the star formation in the outer regions of ngc  147 .",
    "note also that ngc  147 differs from ngc  185 in that ngc  147 shows the effects of a recent interaction @xcite .",
    "before this project , there were hints of possible differences between the m31 and mw dsphs .",
    "for example , the m31 dsphs present redder horizontal branch morphologies when compared to the mw dsphs ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "additionally , @xcite showed that the m31 dsphs generally have larger half - light radii than the mw dsphs .",
    "this was later quantified as differences in the _ mean _ scaling relations at the 1 - 2 sigma level @xcite .",
    "regardless , the m31 dsphs occupy regions of parameter space for which there are no analogous mw systems , emphasizing that a full understanding of the origins of dwarf galaxy properties can not be obtained from the mw system alone",
    ".        the early sfhs may possibly reflect the effects of the epoch of reionization .",
    "the realization that the reionization of the universe is quite inhomogeneous ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) has led to a better appreciation of the impact of the primary galaxy on the evolution of its satellites ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for example , simulations by @xcite show that the local ionizing radiation from the primary galaxy controls the temperature evolution and ionization state of the gas in the satellite dwarfs .",
    "this sets the efficiency of mass stripping by tides and gas removal by ram pressure from the dwarf satellites .",
    "local _ uv flux , at the distance of a typical mw satellite , is estimated to have been more than an order of magnitude higher than the _ average _ cosmic uv background radiation at @xmath8 . at that epoch ,",
    "the primary galaxy was undergoing massive star formation at levels comparable to present - day starburst galaxies @xcite .",
    "since the intensity and temporal evolution of the radiation field of the primary galaxy will depend on its sfh and mass assembly history , given the differences between the mw and m31 , we might expect the evolution of their satellite galaxies to have been significantly different .    the structure of the paper is as follows : the islands sample is described in  [ sample ] . the observations and data reduction are presented in  [ secred ] .",
    "the sfhs of the sample galaxies are presented in  [ secsfhresult ] .",
    "a comparison of the quenching times for the sample galaxies is given in ",
    "[ secquench ] .",
    "a comparison of the properties of the sample galaxies within and outside of the thin plane identified by @xcite is presented in  [ secplane ] .",
    "finally , we make our first attempts at our main goal , comparing the m31 and milky way satellites in  [ seccomp ] .",
    "the main conclusions of the work are summarized in  [ seccon ] . in this work ,",
    "cosmological parameters of @xmath9 , @xmath10 , and a flat universe with @xmath11 are assumed ( i.e. , * ? ? ?",
    "m31 has a diverse satellite galaxy population ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the number continues to grow with the discovery of increasingly fainter galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for the islands program we are focusing on the m31 dsphs more luminous than m@xmath5  @xmath12  @xmath77 in order to derive well - constrained sfhs for comparison to their mw analogues .",
    "these galaxies are massive enough that their status as galaxies is not controversial , and they are populous enough to provide strong constraints on their sfhs over the age of the universe .",
    "the abundance of m31 companions allows us to design a representative sample - which spans the range of properties of the ensemble - yet consists of the galaxies which are least expensive to observe .",
    "our sample of six galaxies is presented in table  1 , and has been selected by balancing exposure time considerations with the requirement to observe galaxies spanning a range of luminosity ( m@xmath5 ) , half - light radius ( r@xmath13 ) , and distance from m31 ( d@xmath14 ) .",
    "thus , the sample consists of galaxies with minimal distances from us and minimal foreground extinction .",
    "because of the large angular size of the m31 satellite distribution and the relatively low galactic latitude of m31 ( b @xmath6 @xmath721.6@xmath15 ) there is a large range in foreground reddening to the satellites ( 0.04 @xmath3 e(b - v ) @xmath3 0.20 * ? ? ?",
    "thus , there is a significant range in required exposure times for the m31 satellites to be observed to the required depth .",
    "the positions in the sky of the islands sample are shown in figure [ f1 ] .",
    "figure [ f1 ] immediately shows that the islands sample spans a large range in projected distance and the true distances from m31 range from 58 to 370 kpc ( table  1 ) .",
    "based on `` fragmentary '' data , @xcite first pointed out the general trend for the stellar content of faint local group dwarfs to correlate with distance from the galaxy .",
    "this correlation is in the sense that the closest have uniformly old stellar populations while the more distant have larger intermediate age populations . while not without exceptions , modern observations have shown that this trend is still valid .",
    "a goal of our program is to determine whether the m31 dsphs show a similar trend of increasing mean age with distance from host as shown by the galactic dsphs .    in figure [ f2 ]",
    "we show a `` kormendy '' diagram @xcite presenting the intrinsic properties of all of the m31 satellites and highlighting the islands sample .",
    "this figure was assembled from data in @xcite , updated with data from @xcite and martin et al .",
    "( 2016 ) , and the data in table  1 . as can be seen in figure [ f2 ]",
    ", the islands sample galaxies give a good representative coverage of the range of intrinsic properties of the m31 dsph satellites .",
    "the exception is a lack of very low surface brightness galaxies in the islands sample .",
    "this is a result of the lower limit on luminosity imposed in order to obtain strong constraints on the sfhs .    in figure",
    "[ f3 ] , we have plotted a comparison of the half - light radii , central surface brightnesses , and luminosities of the m31 and mw satellites as a function of distance from the host galaxy .",
    "figure [ f3 ] shows that the islands m31 dsphs span similar ranges in luminosity and radial distance from host as the well - studied mw dsphs .",
    "these true three - dimensional separations are based on differential heliocentric distances ( see : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "phase  i of this project ( hst cycle 20 , observed november 2013 ) started with observations of and  ii and and  xvi ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "cycle 20 hubble space telescope proposals for targets in the restricted ra zone around andromeda were limited to a total of 30 orbits , so we proposed the two galaxies that could be done in 30 orbits .",
    "our cycle 22 program allowed us to extend our radial coverage to smaller ( and  i and and  iii ) and larger radii ( and  xxviii ) allowing a direct comparison of inner vs.  outer galaxies and also to fill in the middle in the m@xmath5 , r@xmath16 plane . and",
    "xxviii and and  xv also address the critical question of whether and  xvi is an anomaly or shows the importance of separation distance over mass for early quenching ( see discussions in * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "together these six galaxies allow us to test the hypothesis that differences between mw and m31 dsphs are due to early evolution of _ the parent galaxy_. additionally , half of the sample are in the thin plane of co - rotating galaxies identified by @xcite .          in table  2",
    ", we have assembled data from the literature for the kinematics and chemical abundances for the islands sample galaxies .",
    "these data come from spectroscopic studies of individual rgb stars in these galaxies and represent a significant investment of ground - based ( especially keck ) observing time .",
    "we have two reasons for the compilation in table  2 .",
    "first , we would like to present the original sources for reference for the masses and chemical abundances for discussion of the islands galaxies . secondly ,",
    "while there has been tremendous progress on this front , we would like to highlight that more work is still needed .",
    "in many regards , and  ii is the ideal example of what can be learned . with hundreds of spectra observed , the velocity dispersion is very well defined , in fact , the large number of spectra allowed @xcite to identify a kinematically cold component in and  ii .",
    "note that there is no overlap with our hst fields of view and the kinematically cold component in and  ii , and , to date , this component has not been observed with the hst in order to study its sfh .",
    "spectroscopic chemical abundances also hold promise for a better understanding of the evolution of these galaxies .",
    "spectroscopic stellar abundances provide a way to increase the precision in determining the star formation histories at early ages where the color - magnitude diagram technique has challenging time resolution limitations @xcite .",
    "the improved early time resolution of these star formation histories arises because the spectroscopic abundances constrain potential degeneracies between age and metallicity .",
    "however , some care needs to be exercised , as , to date , these techniques have not been demonstrated using multiple stellar libraries . since",
    "the dominant uncertainty in deriving star formation histories is the systematic uncertainty of choosing a stellar evolution library ( see appendix ) , we regard these improvements in time resolution with a degree of skepticism ( see discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . regardless ,",
    "ambitious spectroscopic abundance studies primarily hold the promise for significantly more reliable age - metallicity relationships ( amrs ) and these are vital to a complete understanding of the evolution of these galaxies @xcite .",
    "additionally , as pointed out in @xcite , multiple epochs are highly desired to eliminate inflated velocity dispersions due to binaries .    given the value of the investment of hst observing time dedicated to the study of the islands sample ,",
    "we heartily encourage additional ground - based spectroscopic campaigns to bring the other galaxies up to the remarkable standard achieved for and  ii .",
    "we note especially the near absence of relative chemical abundances ( e.g. , [ @xmath17/fe ] ) .",
    "@xcite has emphasized the important role that accurate relative chemical abundances can play in deriving sfhs .",
    "the hst observations of the six m31 satellites were obtained between october 2013 and september 2015 . the two galaxies observed in cycle 20 ( and  ii and and  xvi ) have previously been reported in @xcite .",
    "all observations were reduced in a uniform manner , and a brief summary is provided here .    following the observing protocols established by the lcid program ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the f475w and f814w bands were selected as the most efficient combination to trace age differences at old ages , since they provide the smallest relative error in age and metallicity in the main - sequence and sub - giant regions .",
    "asymmetric exposure times were chosen such that the uncertainties in the two different photometry bands were equal at an f475w - f814w color of 1  essentially the color of the main sequence one magnitude below the omsto .",
    "the observations were organized into two orbit visits , and each orbit was split into one f475w and one f814w exposure ( in order to maximize sampling of variable star light curves ) .",
    "each visit acquired 2363s of integration time in f475w and 2088s of integration time in f814w with the acs .",
    "the total integration times are given in columns 3 and 4 of table  1 .",
    "simultaneously , parallel fields ( see figure  [ f4 ] ) were observed with the wfc3 camera with exposure times of 2759s in f475w and 2322s in f814w .",
    "dithers of a few pixels between exposures were introduced to minimize the impact of pixel - to - pixel sensitivity variations ( `` hot pixels '' ) in the ccds . as with the lcid program ,",
    "the visits were planned to take place over several days in order to properly sample the light curves for variable stars with periods less than @xmath2 two days .",
    "since it was anticipated that the bulk of the variable stars would be rr lyrae with periods of roughly 0.5 days , the scheduling of the visits was designed to minimize cadences of 12 hours ( @xmath2 8 orbits ) so that the observations would not all be taken near the same phase .",
    "this worked well for the lcid program ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) and also for the present program .",
    "the positions of the observed fields are shown in figure [ f4 ] .",
    "as can be seen in figure [ f4 ] , for and  i and and  ii the acs field covers only part of the galaxy within the half light radius and the parallel wfc3 field contains many member stars .",
    "some member stars were detected in the wfc3 field of and  iii , but not nearly enough to produce a sfh with reasonable uncertainties . for and  xv , and  xvi , and and  xxviii ,",
    "the acs field of view covers most of the galaxy out to the half light radius and the wfc3 field is distant enough that a minimal number of member stars are expected .",
    "we analyzed images taken directly from the stsci pipeline ( bias , flat - field , and image distortion corrected ) working with the charge transfer efficiency corrected images ( i.e. , .flc images ) .",
    "two psf - fitting photometry packages , daophot / allframe @xcite and dolphot , an updated version of hstphot with acs and wfc3 specific modules @xcite , were used independently to obtain the photometry of the resolved stars .",
    "see @xcite for more details about both photometry reduction procedures .",
    "individual photometry catalogs were calibrated using equations provided by the stsci ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) with the most recent updates ( e.g. , acs isr 12 - 01 ) .",
    "the differences between the two sets of photometry are small and typical for obtaining hst photometry with different methods @xcite , and so , for simplicity , the rest of this paper is based on only the dolphot photometry datasets .",
    "signal - to - noise limitations , detector defects , and stellar crowding can all impact the quality of the photometry of resolved stars with the resulting loss of stars , changes in measured stellar colors and magnitudes , and systematic uncertainties . to characterize these observational effects",
    ", we injected @xmath18 artificial stars in the observed images and obtained their photometry in an identical manner as for the real stars . @xcite and @xcite",
    "provide detailed descriptions of the procedures we adopt for the characterization and simulation of these observational effects .",
    "the cmds for the acs fields of the observed m31 satellites are shown in figure [ f5 ] .",
    "the left axis shows the observed f814w magnitudes in the acs photometric system uncorrected for extinction .",
    "figure [ f5 ] shows that the acs photometry reaches below the oldest main - sequence turn - offs allowing for very strong constraints on the oldest epochs of star formation .",
    "these observations of and  i , and  ii , and and  iii are @xmath19 mag fainter than the deepest cmds previously obtained for these galaxies @xcite .",
    "there are several notable features that are common to all six acs cmds .",
    "all six galaxies show the presence of blue horizontal branch stars ( bhbs ) .",
    "this is generally taken as evidence of the presence of stars with ages comparable to the milky way gc population ( see discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "to date , all galaxies that have been observed with sufficient photometric depth have shown at least some star formation at the earliest times .",
    "@xcite noted that and  i , and  ii , and and  iii all had substantial populations of red horizontal branch stars ( rhbs ) and this was interpreted to mean that all three galaxies had substantial populations of stars younger than the typical milky way gcs .",
    "the connection between rhbs and intermediate age stars is generally sound .",
    "however , a direct connection between hb morphology and sfh remains elusive .",
    "for example , the milky way companions draco and ursa minor have identical absolute magnitudes and very different horizontal branch morphologies .",
    "draco has a predominantly red hb and ursa minor has a predominantly blue hb , yet sfhs derived from omsto photometry seem to indicate that draco formed most of its stars before ursa minor @xcite .",
    "thus , while the hb morphology can provide clues to the old age sfhs , there is no substitute for omsto photometry .",
    "in fact , all six galaxies show complex horizontal branch ( hb ) morphologies , indicative of a metallicity or age range . in all six galaxies ,",
    "the hb is extended from the blue to the red side , with the population of rr lyrae variable stars noticeable as a clump at ( f475w - f814w ) @xmath2 0.9 ( in some cases spanning a wider magnitude range than the hb stars at either side ) .",
    "the relative populations of the blue and red hbs varies between galaxies , with and  i , and  ii , and and  xxviii having both the blue and the red hbs well populated , while and  iii and and  xvi have more prominent red hbs . in and  i and and  ii",
    "the red hbs even merge with the rgbs , which are very wide , indicating a wide metallicity range .",
    "all six galaxies also show a significant blue plume in the cmds below the horizontal branch and above the oldest ms turnoffs which is typically associated with a `` blue straggler '' population .",
    "if these stars are interpreted as ms stars , they have ages down to @xmath2 2 gyr .",
    "however , these populations are ubiquitous in dsph galaxies ( at low levels ) , and , there are good arguments that they are due to the altered evolution of coalescing primordial binary stars ( see discussions in * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "note also the recent work by @xcite finding direct evidence of mass transfer in the blue straggler star population of the mw open cluster ngc  188 .",
    "however , to date , no one - to - one relationship has been proposed for the ratio of old age stellar populations to blue straggler stars , so the possibility exists that in some dsph galaxies there could be younger ms stars mixed in with ( or , equivalently , hidden by ) the blue straggler population .    all six galaxies also show , to differing degrees , the presence of an upward extension to the red clump . in models ,",
    "this part of the color magnitude diagram is populated by helium burning stars with ages between @xmath2 2 - 4 gyr .",
    "helium burning stars with even younger ages can also occupy this region , but they would be accompanied by a significant population of bright ms stars which we do not see in the present cmds .",
    "note that in the blue straggler interpretation , there is an upper limit to the ms stellar mass at twice the mass of the stars at the turnoff corresponding to the quenching time . at a constant metallicity ,",
    "the positions of these intermediate age red clump stars form a spur in the cmd , which initially increases in luminosity and color ( getting redder ) with decreasing age , and then continues to increase in luminosity but turns bluer with even younger ages .",
    "these spurs off of the red clump are displayed prominently in the cmds of leo  a @xcite , ic  1613 @xcite , and aquarius ( ddo  210 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) because of the continuous star formation in these galaxies .",
    "the presence of these spurs in the islands dsphs is likely a reflection of the blue straggler population already noted .",
    "the detailed modeling presented in the next section shows that the ratio of blue straggler stars to these stars is consistent with this scenario .",
    "there is one feature that is lacking in all six galaxies , and that is obvious , distinct multiple generations of star formation as evidenced by multiple sequences in the subgiant region .",
    "this is not a common feature of dsph galaxies , but it is seen famously in the milky way companion carina @xcite . in this regard , the sfh of carina remains unique .",
    "there are other features of the individual galaxy cmds worth noting .",
    "the cmd of and  i is contaminated by andromeda s giant stellar stream @xcite .",
    "this stream is made up of relatively metal rich stars and is consistent with a relatively recent tidal origin , now thought to be the result of the complete disruption of an infalling satellite by m31 @xcite .",
    "this stream is located @xmath2100 kpc behind and  i , and thus , features are easily visually separated from and  i in the cmd .",
    "the stream s rgb appears redder and fainter than that of and  i and has a prominent red clump also redder than the rgb of and  i.    the bifurcated rgb in and  ii is another notable feature in figure [ f5 ] .",
    "this feature was first noted by @xcite and attributed to distinct populations in metallicity .",
    "@xcite noted that the stars of the red branch of the rgb were centrally located , adding further evidence for two distinct populations . @xcite",
    "have previously presented this cmd of and  ii and work is in progress to combine wide - field ground - based imaging along with our acs and wfc3 observations to explore spatial variations in the populations of and  ii .",
    "the photometry of and  xvi is deeper than those of the other galaxies .",
    "this is because when the observations were taken , the distance to and  xvi was thought to be slightly larger than the accepted value today . as a result ,",
    "the luminosity of and  xvi is less than originally thought and the cmd is correspondingly less populated than originally anticipated .",
    "for all six islands galaxies , parallel observations were obtained with the wfc3 camera in f475w and f814w ( see figure  [ f4 ] ) . in three of the galaxies",
    "( and  xv , and  xvi , and and  xxviii ) , there was essentially no detectable stellar population .",
    "figure [ f6 ] shows the cmds for the wfc3 parallel fields in and  i , and  ii , and and  iii . in and  i",
    ", the wfc3 cmd appears to be very similar to that of the acs except that it is much less populous .",
    "the giant stellar stream is more prominent relative to and  i , as would be expected . in and  ii , only the older , metal poor rgb is present ( brighter and bluer ) ; there is no evidence of the second rgb , which indicates that the younger , more metal rich stars are more centrally concentrated . in and  iii",
    "the stellar population is detectable , but there are insufficient stars for strong constraints on the sfh .",
    "the sfhs of the outer fields will not be presented here .",
    "these fields will be used for detailed studies of the radial gradients in stellar populations for these galaxies .",
    "the wfc3 cmds are presented here for completeness .",
    "the most populous cmds allow distance determinations from the tip of the rgb ( trgb ) .",
    "following @xcite , we used a maximum likelihood method to determine the magnitude of the rgb tip .",
    "four of the galaxies returned secure estimates and these are listed in table  3 .",
    "the trgb magnitudes were converted to distances assuming the acs f814w calibration from @xcite of m@xmath20 @xmath6 @xmath74.05 . in two cases ( and  xvi and and  xxviii ) , the maximum likelihood code returned ambiguous answers , so we adopted distances resulting from the best sfh solutions ( described later in this section ) .",
    "the derived trgb distances are in relatively good agreement with the trgb distances from @xcite . in general , our new trgb distance moduli average  0.1 magnitudes larger .",
    "the one exception is and  xv where our distance modulus ( 24.66 ) is significantly larger than the 23.98@xmath21 reported by @xcite .",
    "we are also deriving distances using the rr  lyrae populations in the galaxies ( martnez - vzquez et al .  in prep . ) and these support the longer distance estimate .",
    "@xcite noted that the brightest three stars which had previously been used to define the tip of the red giant branch in and  xv were foreground galactic stars , and derived a distance modulus of 24.43 .",
    "note that systematic uncertainties in distance estimates can play a significant role in the determination of the star formation rates at the earliest times ( ages @xmath22 5 gyr ) where a @xmath20.1 magnitude difference in msto luminosity corresponds to a @xmath21 gyr difference in age . for a reliable comparison of the earliest sfhs of mw and m31 satellites ,",
    "a uniform distance measurement methodology will need to be adopted .    to determine the absolute magnitudes in table  3",
    ", we used the photometry from martin et al .",
    "( 2016 ) , except for and  xxviii which was not included in their study . for and  xxviii",
    ", we use the apparent magnitude from @xcite . a comparison between the apparent magnitudes for the m31 satellites in @xcite and those in martin et al .",
    "revealed a significant scatter with a systematic trend for fainter apparent magnitudes in the martin et al.photometry for the more luminous galaxies .",
    "typically , the differences in apparent magnitude are larger than the quoted uncertainties . in an attempt to have all six galaxies on the same absolute magnitude scale",
    ", we made an adjustment of 0.5 magnitudes to the apparent magnitude of and  xxviii from @xcite .",
    "for comparison , in the final column of table  3 , we add the total mass within the half - light radius calculated from the half - light radius from table  1 and the stellar velocity dispersions ( latest values from table  2 ) and using the mass estimator from @xcite .",
    "these sfhs were derived using two parallel methods .",
    "one is known as the iac method , consisting of iac - star @xcite , iac - pop @xcite , and minniac @xcite .",
    "these codes allow simultaneous solutions for the sfh and the age - metallicity relationship ( amr ) with total uncertainties estimated from contributions from statistical , binning , distance , and reddening uncertainties .",
    "details of the methodology can be found in @xcite .",
    "specifically , solutions were obtained using the basti @xcite stellar evolutionary libraries and the bolometric corrections of @xcite .",
    "the other code is match @xcite .",
    "match has been recently modified to calculate systematic uncertainties associated with the choice of stellar evolution library @xcite and statistical uncertainties @xcite .",
    "the systematic uncertainties are estimated through application of shifts in temperature and luminosity which mimic the differences between stellar evolution libraries .",
    "for the statistical uncertainties , random uncertainties were generated using the hybrid monte carlo algorithm of @xcite .",
    "the result of this markov chain monte carlo routine is a sample of 10,000 sfhs whose density is proportional to the probability density .",
    "upper and lower random error bars for any given value ( e.g. , cumulative stellar mass fraction at a particular point in time ) are calculated by identifying the boundaries of the highest - density region containing 68% of the samples , with the value 68% adopted as it is the percentage of a normal distribution falling between the @xmath23 1 @xmath24 bounds .    the results from the two different codes were compared and found to be in agreement within the uncertainties ( when using identical stellar evolution libraries ) . here",
    "we present the results based on the match code .",
    "these will allow a more uniform comparison to previous studies of other galaxies in the literature .",
    "cdm cosmology .",
    "the shaded portion of the graph shows the era of cosmological reionization from @xmath25 @xmath26 10 - 6 . the galaxy absolute v magnitudes are shown in the legend . , width=340 ]      we next present a quantitative comparison of the lifetime sfhs for the six m31 dsphs in the islands sample . as discussed in the appendix , the dominant source of systematic uncertainty in the determination of a sfh from a cmd ( of a given photometric depth ) is the choice of the stellar evolution library .",
    "thus , when comparing sfhs of different galaxies , it is important to use the same library ( and , ideally , to conduct the comparison multiple times with different libraries ) . for a first look at the sfhs of the islands sample , we use the match code and the padua @xcite stellar evolution library .",
    "we choose the padua stellar evolution library to allow for direct comparisons with previous work ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    in figure [ f7",
    "] , we show a comparison between the sfhs of the six islands galaxies as cumulative stellar mass fractions . in the upper panel , only the statistical uncertainties ( as per * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are shown . in the lower panel , the combined statistical and systematic uncertainties ( as per * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are presented . because all of the islands galaxies have been observed to comparable depth",
    ", systematics in the models should have similar impacts on all of the derived galaxy sfhs .",
    "thus , it is likely appropriate to make comparisons using the upper panel .",
    "nonetheless , the lower panel shows the larger uncertainties encountered when trying to account for systematics .",
    "note that even with the larger uncertainties , the six galaxies are shown to each have distinctive features in their sfhs .",
    "the effects of systematic uncertainties are discussed in more detail in the appendix .",
    "presenting the sfhs as cumulative stellar mass fractions ( as opposed to the star formation rates - sfrs - as a function of time ) is the optimal way to compare observations to theoretical models for several reasons .",
    "variations in observed sfrs can be strongly affected by time binning and the changing time resolution as a function of lookback time . often , it is possible to have very different impressions of a single sfh simply by changing the time binning .",
    "it is possible to match the observational time binning by reducing the resolution in the models , but using the cumulative stellar mass fraction as the diagnostic avoids this problem altogether .",
    "it is also possible to compare galaxies at any arbitrary value of the cumulative stellar mass fraction , as opposed to choosing particular values to focus on . in the comparisons that follow",
    ", we will use the cumulative stellar mass fraction as the sole diagnostic .",
    "note that there is one obvious failing of the cumulative stellar mass fraction as the sole diagnostic , and that is the lack of information about the absolute masses of the systems . in figure",
    "[ f7 ] , we have added the stellar luminosities to the legend for ease of comparison .",
    "it is immediately clear that the mean age of the stellar populations does not correlate with the present stellar luminosity . and",
    "iii , and  xv , and and  xxviii have similar sfhs , despite significant differences in luminosity and distance from m31 .",
    "a more detailed comparison of the sfhs as a function distance and luminosity is given in section [ seccomp ] .",
    "figure [ f7 ] shows a variety of sfhs .",
    "however , all six sfhs have the common properties of starting their star formation early ( there is significant star formation in the earliest time bin for all six galaxies ) , having at least 50% of their stars formed by a lookback time of 9 gyr , and then ceasing all star formation by a lookback time of @xmath2 6 gyr . and",
    "xv and and  xxviii show the oldest mean stellar populations of the sample , but both are clearly not consistent with a single age population and are clearly not consistent with forming all of their stars before the epoch of reionization ( as indicated in figure [ f7 ] by the shaded region ) . as demonstrated in @xcite and @xcite , and  xvi has a very extended sfh , and the comparison in figure [ f7 ] shows that it has the most extended star formation in the sample .",
    "however , conspicuously absent from figure [ f7 ] are galaxies with very late quenching times like the mw dsphs carina , fornax , and leo  i. a preliminary comparison of the islands dsph sfhs with the mw dsph sfhs is given in section [ seccomp ] .",
    "the definition of the quenching time for a galaxy is somewhat vague .",
    "part of this is operational , due to the presence of blue straggler stars .",
    "these appear as a population aged @xmath2 2 - 3 gyr , amounting to as much as 2 - 3 % of the stellar mass ; however , there is strong evidence in favor of their interpretation as a population of merged primordial binaries with the same age as the bulk of the old stellar population .",
    "therefore defining the quenching time when the inferred sfr goes to zero can be misleading ( see discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "thus , typically a quenching time is set to a time when the cumulative star formation is approaching complete , but something less than 95% of the total mass of stars has formed . for the purpose of identifying an `` event '' that caused the quenching",
    ", it might make sense to allow for star formation which follows the quenching .",
    "for example , @xcite and @xcite promote the use of the age of 70% of stars formed as a criterion for distinguishing true fossil of reionization from other galaxies .",
    "this 70% criterion fails as a quenching identification in galaxies with extended star formation . for our purposes of searching for synchronized quenching",
    ", we will adopt an age when 90% of the stars have formed as a measure of the quenching time ( @xmath27 ) .",
    "the 90% serves as a very robust measurement of the quenching time as it is not affected by the presence of blue straggler stars .",
    "@xcite noted that the sfhs of and  ii and and  xvi showed nearly identical quenching at a lookback time of approximately six gyr .",
    "@xcite additionally noted that shallow cmds of and  i , and  iii , and  xi , and and  xii also indicated star formation extending to intermediate ages , but the shallow depths of these cmds precluded strong inferences .",
    "this possibility became even more intriguing with the addition of sfhs based on deep hst cmds of ngc  147 and ngc  185 by @xcite .",
    "the sfh of ngc  147 is consistent with a quenching time of six gyr .",
    "although the sfh of ngc  185 shows it to be almost entirely old , the uncertainties allow for continuing star formation up until a lookback time of @xmath2 seven gyr .",
    "however , as noted in the introduction , because the observed fields in ngc  147 and ngc  185 are outside of the half - light radius , the interpretation and comparison of their sfhs is a bit problematic .",
    "the addition of the new deep cmds allow us to test for the possibility of synchronized quenching in the m31 satellites .",
    "indeed , the new sfhs give no support for synchronized quenching . specifically , and",
    "iii appears to have formed 90% of its stars much earlier at @xmath29 gyr , and  xv and and  xxviii at a lookback time of @xmath28 gyr , and and  i at a lookback time of @xmath27.5 gyr .",
    "@xcite offered two other explanations for the synchronized quenching in and  ii and and  xvi : ( 1 ) that both galaxies may have similar halo masses with similar gas retention time scales ( implying significant differences in stellar mass at a fixed halo mass , see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or ( 2 ) coincidental near passes with m31 transforming previously gas - rich dwarfs into gas - poor dsphs via `` tidal stirring '' @xcite . proper motions of these galaxies will be required to define their orbits in order to distinguish between these options .",
    "our understanding of the effect of reionization on dwarf galaxies is primarily driven by studies of mw companion galaxies with photometry that reaches below the omsto .",
    "thus , it is important to know if the mw satellites are representative in this context or if the assembly of the mw and its satellite system is affecting our interpretations .",
    "our new imaging to below the omsto of a sample of m31 dwarfs allows us to explore this question for the first time .",
    "the full details of the earliest sfhs will be deferred to a later study where the inherent time resolution will be carefully modeled ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and comparisons will be made to the most recent galaxy evolution models . nonetheless , we present here a brief overview of the potential impact that these observations will have on the study of the effects of reionization on the sfhs of dwarf galaxies .",
    "@xcite presented a review of the theoretical predictions and observational tests connecting the cosmic uv background from reionization with the quenching of star formation in dwarf galaxies .",
    "we provide a very brief summary here .",
    "quenching of star formation in dsphs by the cosmic uv background has been investigated multiple times ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "with time , the expected imprint of the cosmic uv background on the sfhs of dwarf galaxies has evolved .",
    "many early studies assumed that sufficiently low - mass galaxies would have their star formation permanently quenched by reionization on a very short time - scale .",
    "thus , it was tempting to connect the lack of current star formation in the dsph galaxies with complete quenching by reionization",
    ". @xcite pointed out that the observed sfhs of the local group dwarfs did not support this simple picture .",
    "later models allowed for some star formation after reionization ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) which reduced the tension somewhat between the models and the observations of local group dsph galaxies .",
    "however , recent , high resolution simulations of dwarf galaxies show that the impact of reionization can be much more subtle than originally imagined . supporting the original suggestion by @xcite and @xcite that radiative transfer effects are important , recent",
    "work indicates that the cosmic uv background may suppress infall of fresh gas , but is not likely to boil away cold gas already present ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this means that searching for the signature of reionization in the sfhs of dwarf galaxies is much more complicated than originally envisioned .",
    "the simulations of @xcite provide a dividing line of the peak virial mass , m@xmath28 , @xmath6 5 @xmath29 10@xmath30 m@xmath31 , below which their model galaxies only show star formation to be entirely quenched by z @xmath22 ( a look back time of @xmath2 10 gyr ) .",
    "in their models , m@xmath28 @xmath6 5 @xmath29 10@xmath30 m@xmath31 corresponds to present day stellar masses of @xmath2 3 @xmath29 10@xmath32 m@xmath31 . in this",
    "regard , assuming a v - band mass - to - light ratio of 1 , and  vi is below this dividing line , and  iii , and  xv , and and  xxviii are close to this dividing line , and and  i and and  ii are well above this division .",
    "it is clear that the sfhs of all six galaxies are extended and inconsistent with a single age stellar population .",
    "how does this compare with expectations ?",
    "in the models of @xcite , m@xmath28 @xmath6 5 @xmath29 10@xmath30 m@xmath31 corresponds to present day stellar masses of @xmath2 3 @xmath29 10@xmath32 m@xmath31 . in this",
    "regard , assuming a v - band mass - to - light ratio of 1 , and  vi is below this dividing line , and  iii , and  xv , and and  xxviii are close to this dividing line , and and  i and and  ii are well above this division .",
    "table  1 presents the circular velocities measured at the half - light radii for the six islands galaxies as reported in @xcite and @xcite . these range from @xmath2 6 km  s@xmath33 ( and  xv ) to @xmath2 18 km  s@xmath33 ( and  i ) .",
    "the values of m@xmath34 presented in table  3 from the @xcite mass estimator ( which is consistent within the observational uncertainties with that of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) range from @xmath23 @xmath29 10@xmath35 m@xmath31 ( and  xv and and  xvi ) to @xmath23 @xmath29 10@xmath36 m@xmath31 ( and  i and and  ii ) .",
    "thus , from stellar velocity dispersions , and  xv and and  xvi are right at the limit of where galaxies are expected to have their star formation quenched by reionization .",
    "the sfh of and  xv is possibly marginally consistent with the models of @xcite , showing the star formation to be almost entirely quenched at a lookback time of 8 gyr . however , and  xvi shows the most extended sfh of the sample . as pointed out by @xcite and @xcite ,",
    "the sfh of and  xvi , with its large intermediate age population and continuous star formation , is inconsistent with quenching by reionization .",
    "the lack of correlation of quenching time with measures of the halo mass ( e.g. , the values of v@xmath37 listed in table  1 ) , put strong constraints on the potential role of quenching by reionization in this galaxy sample .",
    "much of the literature discussion focuses on reionization quenching , which completely terminates star formation at the reionization epoch or shortly thereafter .",
    "however , we would like to also look for possibly less catastrophic impacts of reionization , where star formation is temporarily slowed or paused and resumes at a later time .",
    "one thing that is interesting about the sfh of and  xvi is that the sfr decreases immediately after the post - reionization period .",
    "we may be seeing evidence of the impact of the ultraviolet background on the star formation in and  xvi , but the result is not a complete quenching .",
    "several of the other sfhs in figure  [ f7 ] show an inflection in their cumulative stellar mass fractions indicating a slowdown in the formation of stars immediately post - reionization .",
    "this is certainly interesting in the context of any kind of link between reionization and suppression of sfr .",
    "it is also interesting that the sfh of and  iii appears a bit different from the other galaxies in that its sfr increases in the immediate post - reionization period ( and demonstrates that the slowdown seen in the other galaxies is not a systematic effect from the cmd modeling ) .",
    "we will focus on these interesting features in our detailed studies of the earliest sfhs , with special focus on the robust characteristics that are independent of the stellar evolution library .",
    "@xcite discovered that about half of the satellites of m31 reside in a planar subgroup . this vast , thin structure is at least 400 kpc in diameter , but less than 14 kpc in width .",
    "the member satellites rotate about m31 in the same sense .",
    "the reality and probability of this plane has been discussed at length , especially with regard to whether such a structure is consistent with galaxy formation in a @xmath38cdm cosmology .",
    "@xcite have investigated the possibility that in - plane galaxies and off - plane galaxies may have formed and evolved differently .",
    "the different evolutionary paths could result in different chemistries , dynamics , and star formation histories . from a comparison of the relationships between the velocity dispersions , masses , half - light radii , luminosities , and metallicities available for all of the m31 dwarf spheroidal galaxies",
    ", @xcite found the on- and off - plane andromeda dwarf galaxies to be indistinguishable from one another .",
    "one characteristic that was not available to @xcite was the lifetime sfhs of the m31 satellites .",
    "for the sample here , three of the galaxies ( and  i , and  iii , and and  xvi ) are in the plane and three of the galaxies ( and  ii , and  xv , and and  xxviii ) are not ( see figure [ f2 ] ) . comparing the star formation histories",
    ", we also find no evidence for differences between the on- and off - plane galaxies . specifically , and  ii and and  xvi are the two galaxies with the most extended sfhs , yet one is off - plane and the other is in - plane . and",
    "iii , and  xv , and and  xxviii are the three galaxies with the earliest truncation times , and one is in - plane and the other two are off - plane .",
    "it would appear that the physical process leading to the distinction of in - plane and off - plane galaxies does not leave an imprint on any of the intrinsic properties of the galaxies .",
    "we reserve a detailed examination of the earliest sfhs of the islands galaxies for a follow - up study .",
    "the sfhs of the first few gyr entails precise modeling of the intrinsic time resolution of the observations ( see discussions in * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and we are also planning to use the latest updates for the mesa @xcite and basti stellar evolution libraries . nonetheless , interesting comparisons of the very robust late - time features of the sfhs can be made at this time with great confidence .",
    "@xcite provided an initial glimpse at comparing sfhs of m31 and mw dsphs by comparing the sfhs of and  ii and and  xvi to mw dsphs with comparable luminosities and at comparable host distances . as the number of galaxies with deep cmds allowing for secure sfhs increases , it is desirable to produce a diagnostic diagram in which the comparison is simplified .",
    "two key characteristics of a sfh are the time required to produce 50% ( @xmath39 ) of the total star formation and the quenching time ( @xmath1 ) .",
    "the time for the production of 50% of the total stars can be measured robustly and gives a first order characterization separating galaxies that form quickly from those with a more steady build up of stars . as discussed earlier , the time associated with 90% of the total star formation gives a good approximation for the quenching time , which is free from contamination by the presence of blue straggler stars .",
    "we can use these two characteristics to construct three diagnostic diagrams to compare the mw and m31 dsph sfhs : ( 1 ) a comparison of the times when 50% and 90% of the stars are formed as a function of current distance to the host galaxy ; ( 2 ) a comparison of the times when 50% and 90% of the stars are formed as a function of the luminosity of the galaxy ; and ( 3 ) a direct comparison of the times when 50% and 90% of the stars are formed . here",
    "we use the sfhs for the mw dsphs taken from @xcite to compare to the islands dsphs studied here .",
    "there are two advantages to this mw dsphs comparison set .",
    "first , both studies have used the padova stellar evolution library , so the systematic offsets resulting from choice of library , while not as important for the later times concerned here , are minimized .",
    "second , the sfhs are calculated in an identical , uniform way , so that direct comparisons are valid . in order to provide a fair comparison",
    ", we restrict the mw comparison sample to a range in an absolute luminosity of @xmath714 @xmath3 m@xmath5 @xmath3 @xmath76 .",
    "this range encompasses the range from the islands sample .",
    "one disadvantage of the @xcite sample is the small hst fields of view ( and correspondingly relatively small number of stars measured ) for the closest mw companions . in this",
    "regard , ground - based observations extending below the omsto ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) can be competitive for providing accurate sfhs .",
    "as part of the islands project , we are re - analyzing a large collection of ground - based observations of mw companion galaxies to produce a single , uniform analysis .",
    "for this reason , we consider the following comparisons preliminary , and will re - visit the exercise with well - defined uncertainties for all mw companion galaxies at a later date .",
    "nonetheless , we feel that the patterns revealed in this study are quite robust , even if the individual data points may experience small shifts in the final analysis .",
    "note also that these comparisons are all in the regime of small number statistics .",
    "a single addition or subtraction of a galaxy can make a significant impact on the impression of these comparisons .",
    "thus , it is best to focus on broad trends .    , lower panel ) and 90% ( @xmath1 , upper panel ) of the stars to form as a function of distance from the mw for the mw dsphs taken from @xcite and the islands dsphs studied here .",
    "note that there is only a weak trend in the importance of intermediate age populations as a function of present distance from the host galaxy for both samples .",
    "note also that there are no m31 dsphs with very late ( @xmath3 5 gyr ) quenching times .",
    "the three mw dsphs with very late quenching times ( carina , fornax , and leo  i ) are labeled . ,",
    "width=321 ]      figure  [ f8 ] shows the comparison of the lookback times for 90% ( @xmath1 ; upper panel ) and 50% ( @xmath39 ; lower panel ) of the stars to form as a function of distance from the host galaxy for the mw dsphs and the islands dsphs studied here . starting with the top panel ,",
    "note that in this representation , the trend for increasing importance of an intermediate age population with distance is not very strong for the mw dsphs .",
    "the mw dsphs show a weak trend in @xmath1 with distance from host with very large scatter . in comparison ,",
    "the islands dsphs generally also show a weak trend for @xmath1 to decrease with present host distance with less scatter .",
    "the impressive part of this comparison is the complete lack of galaxies in the islands sample showing a very late quenching time ( @xmath3 5 gyr ) .",
    "the late quenching mw satellites stand out as a separate population in the upper panel of figure  [ f8 ] .",
    "this is the most significant difference between the two populations .",
    "( note the possible exception that , at a higher luminosity , ngc  147 does have a late quenching time @xcite . )",
    "the three mw dsphs galaxies with very late quenching times are carina , fornax , and leo  i , and these are labeled in figure  [ f8 ] .    in the lower panel of figure  [ f8 ] , showing @xmath39 as a function of distance from host , the mw dsphs show no trend with distance at all .",
    "the islands sample shows a mild trend for decreasing @xmath39 with increasing present distance .",
    "all of the galaxies in the islands sample have formed 50% of their stars before a lookback time of 9 gyr .",
    "the trend for the stellar content of faint local group dwarfs to correlate with distance from the galaxy identified by @xcite , is not very apparent when restricted to the dsph population in the present luminosity range .",
    "the interpretation of this trend is complicated by the fact that these galaxies can be on non - circular orbits , and their present host distances may not be representative of their locations at the times that we are comparing them . as pointed out by @xcite the average infall times for surviving satellite systems have a median @xmath25 gyr in the past , so the typical surviving satellite would have been outside of the gravitational influence of the host galaxy when the bulk of its star formation occurred .",
    "detailed modeling by @xcite has confirmed this picture and further highlighted the `` pre - processing '' by other gravitational interactions before falling into the present day host .",
    "@xcite have also pointed to the potential processing of dwarf galaxies by `` cosmic web stripping , '' which adds further complications in understanding the histories of dwarfs galaxies . the broad trend observed by @xcite comparing diverse morphological types",
    "should not necessarily be expected to be obvious in a sample restricted to only dsph galaxies with present day distances . clearly , adding orbital information",
    "is highly desirable to allow better formed questions to be investigated .    ; upper panel ) and 50% ( @xmath39 ; lower panel ) of the stars to form as a function of galaxy luminosity for the mw dsphs taken from @xcite and the islands dsphs studied here .",
    "the dotted line in the upper panel corresponds to a redshift of 5 when reionization has been fully completed @xcite .",
    "galaxies which were completely quenched by reionization would lie above this line .",
    "note that there is a trend for later quenching with increasing luminosity for both dsph populations .",
    "note also the difference between the mw and m31 populations in their lookback times for 50% of the the stars to form .",
    ", width=321 ]      it is possible that figure  [ f8 ] could be biased by not comparing similar luminosity mw dsphs with m31 dsphs .",
    "although the range in absolute luminosity was restricted , that does not necessarily mean there is no bias in comparing the two samples . to test for such a possible sample bias , in figure  [ f9 ] we plot the characteristic times versus the galaxy v - band luminosities .",
    "the comparison for quenching times is shown in the top panel . in the top panel",
    "we have added a dotted line corresponding to a redshift of 5 when reionization has been fully completed @xcite .",
    "galaxies which were completely quenched by reionization would lie above this line . only the very lowest luminosity galaxy in the mw sample ( hercules ) is consistent with complete quenching by reionization .",
    "overall , the top panel of figure  [ f9 ] shows a stronger trend in the mw dsphs with luminosity than we saw when plotted as a function of present distance .",
    "the more luminous mw dsphs tend , on average , to have later quenching times .",
    "the baseline in luminosity for the islands sample is slightly smaller , but there is little evidence of a trend of quenching time with luminosity in the islands sample .",
    "indeed , the m31 dsphs appear to be a much more homogeneous set in this regard . from figure  [ f9 ] , it is clear that the lack of very late quenching times in the islands sample is not due to the luminosities of the sample galaxies .",
    "the bottom panel of figure  [ f9 ] essentially reflects the trends seen in the top panel .",
    "the @xmath39 values for the mw dsphs show a trend with luminosity in the sense of later star formation for higher luminosities , while the islands sample gives no evidence for a trend .",
    "how much of the two trends for the mw dsphs in figure  [ f9 ] is due to the presence of the three late quenching galaxies is difficult to say .",
    "if they are removed from the comparison , then the five remaining galaxies still show a trend , albeit very much weaker , where the impression of a trend can be altered by the presence / absence of a single galaxy .",
    "in this regard , the absence of a trend in luminosity in the islands sample can not be definitively see as different from the mw sample .",
    "the main difference remains that the islands sample has no very - late quenching galaxies , while these are common in the mw satellites of the same luminosity .",
    "comparing @xmath1 values ( top panel ) with the @xmath39 values ( lower panel ) , there is another potentially interesting difference between the two samples .",
    "the m31 satellites have , on average , produced 50% of their stars much faster that the mw satellite .",
    "on the other hand , the m31 satellites have quenching times comparable to those of the mw satellites . taken at face value , then this could mean that the m31 satellites experienced a much stronger early impact than the mw dwarfs .",
    "that is , star formation was greatly suppressed in the m31 satellites and then only returned back to comparable star formation rates after a significant delay ( as seen in figure  [ f7 ] ) .",
    "this difference could be due to the delayed effects of reionization , i.e. , although neither sample is showing complete quenching by reionization , perhaps the two have been impacted differently by reionization .",
    "alternatively , this differnce could be reflecting the impact of the parent galaxies on the early evolution of the satellites .",
    "with such small samples and recognizing the complications of orbital histories , it will be difficult to draw definitive conclusions .",
    "nonetheless , there appears to be evidence that the evolution of the m31 dsphs was more uniform than the evolution of the mw dsphs .    ) and 50% ( @xmath39 ) of the stars to form for the mw dsphs taken from @xcite and the islands dsphs studied here .",
    "the long dashed line represents the relationship for constant star formation ended by instantaneous quenching .",
    "the two short dashed lines are for exponentially decreasing star formation ( @xmath40 models ) ended by instantaneous quenching ( with time scales of 2 gyr and 10 gyr ) .",
    "the dotted line approximates the division between `` fast dwarfs '' and `` slow dwarfs '' as defined by @xcite .",
    "the ensemble of mw satellite galaxies is roughly consistent with constant star formation with rapid quenching .",
    "the m31 satellite galaxies are roughly consistent with @xmath40 models .",
    "the m31 satellite galaxy sample shows no late quenching galaxies as observed in the mw sample .",
    "lower panel : we add to the top panel values of @xmath1 and @xmath39 for isolated local group dwarfs with omsto photometry .",
    "the isolated dsphs cetus and tucana fit in with the satellite dsphs , the di galaxies overlap with the late quenching mw dsphs , and the isolated dt galaxies define their own region .",
    ", width=321 ]      in this last section , we compare the values of @xmath1 versus @xmath39 . in the top panel of figure  [ f10 ] ,",
    "we plot @xmath1 versus @xmath39 for the mw and m31 satellite samples . here",
    "we see the very interesting trend that @xmath1 and @xmath39 are relatively well correlated for both the mw and the m31 dsphs .",
    "this is not totally unexpected , as @xmath1 must always be greater than or equal to @xmath39 , but galaxies which form a substantial fraction of their stars early and then quench very late ( i.e. , galaxies which would be in the lower right hand corner of figure  [ f10 ] ) are , in principle , possible , but not observed .",
    "the general trend is , to first order , consistent with relatively constant star formation ended by a quenching event .",
    "the long dashed line in figure  [ f10 ] shows @xmath39 @xmath6 @xmath1/2 , which would be the result of constant star formation followed by rapid quenching .",
    "there is good evidence for a rapid transformation of star forming satellite dwarf galaxies into dsphs after falling into the host galaxy halo @xcite , so the assumption of an instantaneous quenching is supported . for the late - quenching galaxies , quenching by reionization",
    "is certainly not a factor , and environmental quenching associated with infall seems most likely . of all of the possible ways to remove the gas , ram pressure stripping is the fastest @xcite",
    ".    star formation in galaxies is often modeled as exponentially decreasing ( @xmath40 models ) , so it is of interest to see where these models would lie in this diagnostic diagram .",
    "the dotted lines show tau models with time constants of 2 and 10 gyr .",
    "since increasing the time constant will only more closely approximate constant star formation , it is clear that constant star formation is a better approximation to the sfhs of the mw dsphs . on the other hand ,",
    "most of the m31 satellites can be found lying between the two @xmath40 models .",
    "@xcite found that the sfhs of dsph galaxies could be approximated by exponentially declining star formation with a tau of 5 gyr .",
    "it appears from figure  [ f10 ] that constant star formation is a better characterization for the mw satellites , but that the m31 satellites might be better described with a range of @xmath40 models .",
    "@xcite have proposed that the dsphs can be divided into `` slow '' and `` fast '' classes based on their sfhs .",
    "they propose that the distinction between a fast and slow dwarf galaxy primarily reflects the characteristic density of the environment where they form .",
    "while there is no quantitative definition of `` fast '' and `` slow , '' all of the example `` fast '' galaxies are quenched by a lookback time of 9 gyr .",
    "we have added a dotted line to figure  [ f10 ] to indicate this division .",
    "figure  [ f10 ] shows that while there are mw companions above this line , most of the m31 dsph satellites lie below this line .",
    "there is no evidence of a clear dichotomy in figure  [ f10 ] , and most of the m31 dsph satellites in our sample lack the extremes of a short dominant episode of star formation or a very extended star formation history .",
    "however , the connection of fast star formation to evolution in denser environments is not ruled out by figure  [ f10 ] , only the case for a clean separation .",
    "the top panel of figure  [ f10 ] reinforces the main conclusion from this section that the m31 and mw dsph populations distinguish themselves by the complete absence of late quenching dsphs in the m31 population . of course , the islands sample is only representative and not complete , but there has been no selection bias which could have led to this result .",
    "the m31 and mw dsph samples overlap in distance from host and galaxy luminosity , so there must be some other parameter of importance .",
    "a secondary , and more subtle difference is the segregation of the m31 and mw dsph populations in this diagram .",
    "to first order , the m31 dsphs lie on or below the long dashed line indicating constant star formation , while the mw dsphs are all above this line .",
    "this is a re - manifestation of the trend already noted that the m31 dsphs produced half of their stars earlier than the mw dsphs and then were quenched at approximately the same time ( discounting the late - quenching mw dsphs ) .    in the bottom panel of figure  [ f10 ]",
    ", we have added the results from the sfhs from the six isolated local group dwarfs from the lcid study ( from figure 10 in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) consisting of two dsphs ( cetus and tucana ) , two dts ( lgs-3 and phoenix ) , and two dis ( leo a and ic 1613 ) .",
    "we have also added two other isolated dis with comparable deep hst photometry : leo t @xcite and aquarius @xcite .",
    "the local group isolated dsphs cetus and tucana fit in with the distribution of companion dsphs . from the point of view of sfhs",
    ", there seems to be little to distinguish the isolated dsphs from companion dsphs .",
    "since the radial velocities of cetus and tucana @xcite are consistent with orbiting within the virial volume of the mw @xcite , it supports the premise that there is a commonality to evolutionary paths of all of the lg dsphs .",
    "the local group dwarf transition galaxies ( dtrans , or dt ) galaxies are defined by the presence of recent star formation but the lack of very recent massive star formation ( i.e. , the lack of detected regions ) .",
    "the nature of dt galaxies has been discussed by @xcite who found that most dts are consistent with normal di galaxies exhibiting temporarily interrupted star formation , but that their observed density - morphology relationship indicates that environmental processes may play a role in causing their lower present day sfrs . from sfhs , @xcite found the majority of the dts to be low - mass dis that simply lack h@xmath17 emission , but that some dts ( like phoenix ) have remarkably low gas fractions .",
    "the lcid project provided very detailed sfhs for phoenix @xcite and lgs-3 @xcite and they are included in the bottom panel of figure  [ f10 ] .",
    "interestingly , the isolated dt galaxies define their own region in the diagnostic diagram in figure  [ f10 ] .",
    "although there are no dsphs in the early build - up and late quenching corner of the diagram , nature is able to produce galaxies in this parameter space through the process or processes that produce dt galaxies .",
    "the dt galaxies are characterized by significant early star formation which has decreased in amplitude in time , and thus , they occupy a region of the diagram that fits well with @xmath40 models .    finally , the di galaxies overlap with the late quenching mw dsphs ( note that we have included leo  t with the di galaxies with the justification that leo  t is simply a low - mass di lacking h@xmath17 emission . in many regards ,",
    "leo  t is similar to the di leo  p with the exception that leo  p does have an region , * ? ? ?",
    "the overlap of the dis with the late quenching dsphs is really quite remarkable and suggests that just a few gyr ago the late quenching mw dsphs would have been identical to today s dis .",
    "this reinforces the idea of an environmental evolutionary link between the two and the conclusion that the current morphological type is not necessarily a good diagnostic of the intrinsic , long term evolution of a galaxy properties ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the measurement of leo  i s proper motion by @xcite shows a coincidence of the quenching time with the time of the orbital perigalacticon , which suggests that leo  i may offer a prototype for the conversion of star forming to gas - free dwarf galaxies due to processes associated with infall into the host galaxy s virial volume . @xcite",
    "have modeled the infall histories of dwarf galaxies and identified two sources of strong environmental influence , the virial volume of the host and `` group pre - processing . ''",
    "the challenge is now to combine sfhs and reconstructed orbits to determine whether these models provide an adequate description of the galaxies in the local group .",
    "additional modeling that can reproduce satellite populations with and without late quenching satellites will be of extreme interest .",
    "we have presented hst acs and wfc3 observations of six m31 dsph galaxies as part of the initial star formation and lifetimes of andromeda satellites ( islands ) project .",
    "these six galaxies comprise a representative sample of andromeda dsph satellite companion galaxies .",
    "the main goal of this program is to determine whether the star formation histories ( sfhs ) of the andromeda dsph satellites are significantly different from those of the milky way .",
    "our observations reach the oldest main sequence turn - offs , allowing a time resolution at the oldest ages of @xmath0 gyr .",
    "we find that the six dsphs present a variety of sfhs which are not strictly correlated with luminosity or present distance from m31 .",
    "specifically , we find a broad range in quenching times , but all quenching time are earlier than @xmath26 gyr ago . in agreement with observations of milky way companions of similar mass",
    ", there is no evidence of complete quenching of star formation by the cosmic uv background responsible for reionization , but the possibility of a degree of quenching at reionization can not be ruled out .",
    "we do not find significant differences between the sfhs of the three members of the vast , thin plane of satellites discovered by @xcite and the three off - plane dsphs in our sample .",
    "this is further confirmation of the conclusion by @xcite that there is no evidence of physical differences between the in - plane and out - of - plane galaxies .    for a simplified comparison of sfhs and a preliminary comparison between the mw and m31 dsphs , we concentrate on the lookback times when",
    "50% and 90% of the total stars are formed .",
    "a preliminary comparison of the sfhs of the islands dsphs with those milky way dsph companions with similar luminosities and host distances shows that there is one primary significant difference using this diagnostic .",
    "there are no very late quenching ( @xmath1 @xmath3 3 gyr ) dsphs in the islands sample .",
    "thus , modeling that can reproduce satellite populations with and without late quenching satellites will be of extreme interest .",
    "a secondary and more subtle difference is the segregation of the m31 and mw dsph populations in this diagram .",
    "the m31 dsphs produced half of their stars earlier than the mw dsphs and then were quenched at approximately the same time ( discounting the late - quenching mw dsphs ) .",
    "interestingly , to first order , the ensemble of m31 dsphs are consistent with @xmath40 models while the mw satellites are best described as having nearly constant star formations rates until being rapidly quenched .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through grants go-13028 and go-13739 from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by aura , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "support for drw is provided by nasa through hubble fellowship grant hst - hf-51331.01 awarded by the space telescope science institute .",
    "the computer network at iac operated under the condor software license has been used .",
    "authors sh and aa are funded by the iac ( grant p3/94 ) and , with sc , by the economy and competitiveness ministry of the kingdom of spain ( grant aya2013 - 42781p ) .",
    "authors cg , cem - v , and mm are funded by the iac grant p/301204 and by the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness ( mineco ) under the grant ( project reference aya2014 - 56795-p ) .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system bibliographic services and the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "there are three main sources of uncertainties in deriving sfhs ( see , e.g. , discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : the input observational uncertainties , the statistical uncertainties of the solution , and the systematic uncertainties of the adopted isochrones from the stellar evolution libraries . in a specific test of creating synthetic photometry from one stellar evolution library and using a different stellar evolution library to derive a sfh , @xcite showed that the systematic uncertainties associated with the adopted isochrones from the stellar evolution libraries dominated those of the numerical methodology or the observation uncertainties .",
    "they recommend always using more than one stellar evolution library when analyzing a real population to test for these effects . @xcite and",
    "@xcite have also shown that , for sufficiently deep photometry , the stellar evolution uncertainties , as approximated by differences between stellar evolution model and their resulting libraries , represent the dominant systematic uncertainty for derived sfhs .",
    "( see also the discussion in * ? ? ? * concerning the effects of varying heavy element abundance patterns . )    in order to give a sense of the importance of the choice of the stellar evolution library , here we present comparisons for two of the islands sample ( and  ii , one of the two galaxies with extended star formation and a quenching time of @xmath26 gyr , and and iii , the earliest quenched galaxies of the sample , with a quenching time of @xmath29 gyr ) .",
    "figure  [ fa1 ] shows the cumulative sfhs , sfrs , and amrs for and ii ( left panel ) and and iii ( right panel ) derived using five different stellar evolution libraries ( parsec , padova , dartmouth , basti , and mist : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "while all five solutions are similar , there are systematic differences which are at least as large as the statistical uncertainties in the solutions ( compare with figure  [ f7 ] ) .",
    "these differences come from at least three different sources .",
    "first , the stellar libraries can change as a result of updating input data such as nuclear reaction rates .",
    "secondly , the codes can differ in how to manage the efficiency of non - canonical processes such as core overshooting .",
    "thirdly , different libraries make different assumptions about certain model specifications such as the adopted heavy element solar mixture , the initial he abundance at the lower metallicity ( the primordial helium abundance ) , the assumed helium - enrichment ratio dy / dz .",
    "@xcite present a useful comparison of some of the differences between existing databases .",
    "dramatic differences in the bin - to - bin sfrs are minimized in the cumulative sfhs plots , but the positions of steep changes in the sfhs can be seen to shift systematically with choice of stellar evolution library . note that the differences are consistent between the galaxies , i.e. , the mist and basti solutions form stars the fastest , the padova and dartmouth solutions are intermediate and the parsec solutions form the stars the slowest .",
    "thus , when comparing sfhs between galaxies or between groups of galaxies , it is imperative to approach the data with as uniform a methodology as possible , and especially , to use the same stellar libraries",
    ". ideally , comparisons should be conducted using a variety of libraries such that a sense of the systematic uncertainty associated with the choice of the library can be achieved . while comparisons conducted using a single stellar evolution library are likely to result in robust differences / similarities , it is the absolute time frame that will depend on the choice of stellar evolution library .",
    "a goal of the islands project is to conduct comparisons between mw and m31 satellite sfhs using multiple stellar evolution libraries .",
    "lcccccrrrrr and i & 13739 & 19,833 & 15,709 & 24.47 & 0.047 & @xmath711.4 & 815 & 68 & 16.1 @xmath23 4.4 & 18 @xmath23 4 + and ii & 13028 & 22,472 & 17,796 & 24.12 & 0.063 & @xmath711.7 & 965 & 195 & 12.3 @xmath23 2.6 & + and iii & 13739 & 28,996 & 22,968 & 24.36 & 0.050 & @xmath79.6 & 405 & 86 & 14.7 @xmath23 3.7 & 16 @xmath23 2 + and xv & 13739 & 22,443 & 17,773 & 24.66 & 0.041 & @xmath78.7 & 314 & 108 & 6.3 @xmath41 & 7 @xmath23 3 + and xvi & 13028 & 19,833 & 15,709 & 23.60 & 0.066 & @xmath77.5 & 130 & 319 & 8.8 @xmath42 & 7 @xmath23 6 + and xxviii & 13739 & 26,360 & 20,880 & 24.35 & 0.080 & @xmath78.5 & 270 & 368 & 10.4 @xmath43 & 8 @xmath23 3    lcccccccr and i & 10.6 @xmath23 1.1 & 80 & -1.45 @xmath23 0.04 & 0.37 & 80 & & & @xcite + and i & 10.2 @xmath23 1.9 & 51 & & & & & & @xcite + and i & 8.2 @xmath23 1.7 & 49 & & & & & & @xcite + and i & & & -1.11 @xmath23 0.12 & & 31 & 0.28 @xmath23 0.16 & 7 & @xcite +   + and ii & 7.3 @xmath23 0.8 & 95 & -1.64",
    "@xmath23 0.04 & 0.34 & 95 & & & @xcite + and ii & 7.8 @xmath23 1.1 & 531 & -1.39 @xmath23 0.03 & 0.72 @xmath23 0.03 & 477 & & & @xcite + and ii & & & -1.37 @xmath23 0.12 & & 248 & 0.03 @xmath23 0.09 & 56 & @xcite + and ii & & & -1.25 @xmath23 0.05 & 0.49 @xmath23 0.04 & 300 & & & @xcite +   + and iii & 4.7 @xmath23 1.8 & 43 & -1.78 @xmath23 0.04 & 0.27 & 43 & & & @xcite + and iii & 9.3 @xmath23 1.4 & 62 & & & & & & @xcite + and iii & & & -1.81 @xmath23 0.12 & & 35 & 0.33 @xmath23 0.21 & 8 & @xcite +   + and xv & 4.0 @xmath23 1.4 & 29 & & & & & & @xcite +   + and xvi & 3.8 @xmath23 2.9 & 7 & & & & & & @xcite + and xvi & 5.8 @xmath44 & 20 & -2.0 @xmath23 0.1 & & 12 & & & @xcite +   + and xxviii & 4.9 @xmath23 1.6 & 18 & @xmath2 - 2.0 & & & & & @xcite + and xxviii & 6.6 @xmath45 & 17 & -2.1 @xmath23 0.3 & & 17 & & & @xcite + and xxviii & & & -1.84 @xmath23 0.15 & 0.65 @xmath23 0.15 & 13 & & & @xcite    lcccccc and i & 20.50 @xmath23 0.01 & 0.080 & 24.47 & 13.1 @xmath23 0.1 & @xmath711.4 & 3.2 @xmath29 10@xmath46 + and ii & 20.16 @xmath23 0.01 & 0.092 & 24.12 & 12.4 @xmath23 0.1 & @xmath711.7 & 3.4 @xmath29 10@xmath46 + and iii & 20.39 @xmath23 0.02 & 0.084 & 24.36 & 14.8 @xmath23 0.1 & @xmath79.6 & 2.0 @xmath29 10@xmath46 + and xv & 20.68 @xmath23 0.08 & 0.070 & 24.66 & 16.0 @xmath23 0.1 & @xmath78.7 & 2.9 @xmath29 10@xmath35 + and xvi & & & 23.60 & 16.1 @xmath23 0.1 & @xmath77.5 & 2.5 @xmath29 10@xmath35 + and xxviii & & & 24.35 & 15.9 @xmath23 0.5 & @xmath78.5 & 6.8 @xmath29 10@xmath46"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the initial star formation and lifetimes of andromeda satellites ( islands ) project uses _ hubble space telescope _ imaging to study a representative sample of six andromeda dsph satellite companion galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the main goal of the program is to determine whether the star formation histories ( sfhs ) of the andromeda dsph satellites demonstrate significant statistical differences from those of the milky way , which may be attributable to the different properties of their local environments . </S>",
    "<S> our observations reach the oldest main sequence turn - offs , allowing a time resolution at the oldest ages of @xmath0 gyr , which is comparable to the best achievable resolution in the mw satellites . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the six dsphs present a variety of sfhs that are not strictly correlated with luminosity or present distance from m31 . </S>",
    "<S> specifically , we find a significant range in quenching times ( @xmath1 , lookback times from 9 to 6 gyr ) , but with all quenching times more than @xmath26 gyr ago . in agreement with observations of milky way companions of similar mass </S>",
    "<S> , there is no evidence of complete quenching of star formation by the cosmic uv background responsible for reionization , but the possibility of a degree of quenching at reionization can not be ruled out . </S>",
    "<S> we do not find significant differences between the sfhs of the three members of the vast , thin plane of satellites and the three off - plane dsphs . </S>",
    "<S> the primary difference between the sfhs of the islands dsphs and milky way dsph companions of similar luminosities and host distances is the absence of very late quenching ( @xmath1 @xmath3 5 gyr ) dsphs in the islands sample . </S>",
    "<S> thus , models that can reproduce satellite populations with and without late quenching satellites will be of extreme interest . </S>"
  ]
}