{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding how the solar upper atmosphere is heated to high temperatures is a fundamental problem in solar physics .",
    "it has long been recognized that the solar chromosphere and transition region , which supply the corona with mass , should provide important diagnostic information on the energy release mechanism .",
    "the complex topology and rapid evolution of these layers of the solar atmosphere , however , has made this difficult to achieve in practice .",
    "recent observations from the high resolution coronal imager  ( hi - c , @xcite ) and the interface region imaging spectrograph  ( iris , @xcite ) suggest that at sufficiently high spatial and temporal resolution it is possible to track the response of the transition region and chromosphere to some individual heating events .",
    "for example , @xcite showed that at the approximately 150 km spatial resolution and 5.5s cadence of hi - c , temporal variability in active region loop footpoints ( the `` moss , '' e.g. , @xcite ) associated with the heating of some high temperature loops becomes apparent .",
    "lower resolution observations of the moss , in contrast , had suggested that the heating was relatively steady ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "similarly , @xcite identified several events in 9.5s cadence iris  sit - and - stare observations that showed strong blueshifts in si4 .",
    "numerical simulations indicate that these blueshifts are a signature of energy deposition at heights below the region where si4 is typically formed , perhaps because the energy transport in these events is driven by electron beams rather than thermal conduction .",
    "this recent work suggests that a detailed examination of the transition region and chromosphere is likely to yield new insights into the physics of energy release during flares .",
    "there is , of course , a long history of both observational and theoretical studies of impulsive flare dynamics ( for a review see @xcite ) .",
    "previous observations have established the close correspondence between the evolution of hard x - ray emission and emission from the transition region and chromosphere ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) as well as the presence of both evaporative upflows at high temperatures ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and downflows at transition region and chromospheric temperatures ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "early numerical simulations were able to reproduce the very high coronal temperatures and densities associated with impulsive energy deposition and chromospheric evaporation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these models were also able to account for the red - shifts observed in the chromosphere and transition region , which are a consequence of the sudden evaporative upflows at higher temperatures and momentum conservation @xcite .",
    "as discussed by @xcite , however , these numerical simulations also predicted that the evaporative upflows should dominate the velocity signature and the observed line profile should be completely blueshifted .",
    "this is rarely observed in spatially unresolved observations @xcite . at the spatial resolution of several thousand kilometers some completely blueshifted high temperature profiles",
    "are observed ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . at the approximately 200 km spatial resolution of iris ,",
    "completely blueshifted fe21 emission is observed routinely @xcite .",
    "this discrepancy is a consequence of the filamentary nature of energy release during a flare @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we investigate the evolution of transition region and chromospheric line intensities , velocities , and widths observed with a high cadence iris  sit - and - stare observation of a small event ( goes class b4 after background subtraction ) that occurred on 19 november 2014 .",
    "the combination of data from many different satellites allows us to measure comprehensively the properties and dynamics of the event in ways not possible with any individual instrument .",
    "we enumerate the constraints and observables that a model must be able to reproduce in order to sufficiently understand the energy release .",
    "this paper is part of a larger program to understand the relationship between transition region emission and energy deposition in small events such as microflares in the hope that these properties can be extrapolated to events that heat the solar corona .",
    "iris  is a compact spectrograph based on a cassegrain design .",
    "special coatings allow for simultaneous imaging of the 13321407 and 27832835  wavelength ranges .",
    "the far uv ( fuv ) wavelength range includes strong emission lines from o1 1355.598 , c2 1334.535 and 1335.708 , si4 1393.755 and 1402.770 , o4 1399.775 and 1401.163 , fe12 1349.382 , and fe21 1354.080 .",
    "the near uv ( nuv ) wavelength range includes mg2 k 2796 and mg2 2803  lines .",
    "the nearly 7 m effective focal length provides a spatial resolution scale of @xmath0 or about 230 km .",
    "spectroscopy is provided by passing solar radiation through a @xmath1 slit and reflecting it off of a grating .",
    "the resulting spectral resolution is about 26m  in the fuv and 53m  in the nuv .",
    "light reflected off of the slit assembly is passed through one of four science filters to allow for context imaging of an area @xmath2 around the slit .",
    "the high effective area of iris  relative to previous spectrographs allows for much higher observing cadences , which are typically below 10s .",
    "iris  was launched into a sun - synchronous orbit and nearly continuous observing is possible for about 9 months of the year . for additional details on the instrument",
    "see @xcite .",
    ", [ fig : hist ] , and [ fig : smallfov ] and highlights the footpoint region near the sunspot penumbra . ]    , [ fig : hist ] , and [ fig : smallfov ] and highlights the footpoint region near the sunspot penumbra . ]    , [ fig : hist ] , and [ fig : smallfov ] and highlights the footpoint region near the sunspot penumbra . ]",
    "the large volume of data returned by iris  makes it difficult to inspect every observation . to filter the data we cross - referenced the flare catalog provided by the the reuven ramaty high energy solar spectroscopic imager  ( @xcite , rhessi ) with the iris  observation catalog to find flares for which there was rhessi  emission within the iris  slit - jaw field of view .",
    "we then created quick - look movies of the iris  slit - jaw data and evaluated the events individually .",
    "the microflare that occurred on 19 november 2014 beginning at about 14:14ut is particularly well observed .",
    "in addition to data from iris  and rhessi  there are simultaneous observations from the extreme ultraviolet imaging spectrometer  ( eis , @xcite ) , the x - ray telescope  ( xrt , @xcite ) , and the atmospheric imaging assembly  ( aia , @xcite ) .",
    "these data provide important constraints on the physical properties in the loops that ultimately form above the footpoint regions observed with iris  and rhessi .",
    "the spectral lines observed with eis , for example , provide information on both the high - temperature loops through the observation of emission from ca17 , fe23 , and fe24 and the pressure in the loops through the fe14 density diagnostic .",
    "these observations are typically taken at relatively low cadence , with spectra taken at one position every few minutes .",
    "observations from xrt  and aia  in the 131  and 94  channels , which observe fe21 128.75  and fe18 93.93 , provide information on the high - temperature emission on much shorter time scales ( for a discussion of the xrt  and aia  temperature responses see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .          in figure",
    "[ fig : context ] we show an aia  94  image , hmi  line - of - sight magnetogram , and iris  1400  slit - jaw image from the event , which occurred in the vicinity of a sunspot .",
    "the aia  94  image has been processed to remove some of the contaminating 1mk emission and emphasize fe18 @xcite .",
    "the larger aia  and hmi  images indicate the field of view for the iris  slit - jaw image . for the period between 14:08 and 15:03ut iris",
    "alternated taking slit - jaw images in the 1400  and 1335  channels .",
    "the cadence for each channel was about 19s .",
    "the co - alignment of the various observations is an important component of this work .",
    "unfortunately the pointing information specified in most of the file headers is not accurate enough to co - register these data .",
    "we have assumed that the aia  data have the most accurate pointing and have written software to cross - correlate the iris , xrt and eis  observations to it .",
    "the relatively high cadence of aia   the standard 12s for euv images and",
    "24s for uv images was used during these observations  insures that image pairs are always close together in time . for the iris  slit - jaw images we co -",
    "align using aia  1600 , for xrt  we use aia  94 , and for eis  195.119  we use aia  195 .",
    "for the lower resolution xrt  and eis  data , blinking the images indicates that this procedure works very well .",
    "for the iris  data it is able to correct for longer - term pointing drifts in the image sequence but does introduce some jitter that is evident in the animations of the data .",
    "we note that no adjustments to the rhessi  pointing appear to be necessary .",
    "the iris  slit - jaw images for this period show intense brightenings in the sunspot penumbra and in some of the near - by opposite polarity flux . to investigate the relationship between these brightenings and the hard x - ray emission we have computed a rhessi  1525kev image using the `` clean '' algorithm @xcite with a 2.4  pixel size and a 240s integration centered on the time of each iris  slit - jaw image . the long integration time relative to the cadence of the iris  slit - jaw observations",
    "is necessary to bring up the signal - to - noise .",
    "only detectors 3 , 6 , 8 , and 9 are used for these image reconstructions . except for the ` clean_beam_width_factor ` , which we set to 1.5",
    "to narrow the spatial extent of the beam , we use the default rhessi  imaging parameters for the clean algorithm .",
    "the rhessi  images indicate that most of the hard x - ray emission comes from the footpoints rooted in the strong magnetic field of the sunspot penumbra .",
    "figure  [ fig : context ] shows the contours of the rhessi  emission superimposed on an iris  slit - jaw image .",
    "the lowest intensity rhessi  contour shown is about a factor of two smaller than the peak .",
    "lower intensity values show features that are clearly unrelated to the structures seen in the iris  images and likely to be noise generated from the inversion .    in figure",
    "[ fig : rhessi ] we show individual iris  slit - jaw images as well as light curves computed by summing the iris  intensities over the small region of interest and integrating all of the available rhessi  counts .",
    "as expected , these light curves show a close relationship between the transition region intensity and the hard x - ray emission .",
    "the images and light curves show that hard x - ray emission is concentrated into two bursts that peak at approximately 14:15 and 14:20ut .",
    "isothermal fits to the rhessi  spectra for times centered around these peaks are shown in figure  [ fig : spectra ] . here the ` vth+thick2_vnorm ` model is used .",
    "this model describes an isothermal component plus a non - thermal component produced by thick target bremsstrahlung from a power - law distribution of electrons .",
    "it is part of the standard spectral analysis software for rhessi  @xcite .    the best - fit temperatures , which will be relevant to the discussion of the temperatures derived from the xrt , eis , and aia  observations later in the paper , are @xmath3 and @xmath4mk . the spectral indexes for the non - thermal component of the electrons for these times are @xmath5 and @xmath6 , and are important parameters in modeling the energy deposition in these footpoint regions",
    ".    the differences in spatial resolution between the two instruments are readily apparent here .",
    "the broad regions of hard x - ray emission are imaged as many small footpoint brightenings in iris .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : fwhm ] , the footpoints observed in iris  typically have a fwhm of about @xmath7 or about 410 km .",
    "equally important is the difference in dynamic range . the iris  detector records data values to 14 bits ( 0 to 16,383 or about 4 orders of magnitude ) while rhessi  has a dynamic range of about a factor of two in this event .",
    "the strong correlation between the transition region and hard x - ray emission suggests that we can gain additional insight into the distribution of heating events along footpoints by measuring the distribution of iris  intensities there .",
    "we measured this distribution for the duration of the hard x - ray burst , finding it well described by a power - law and well correlated with the hard x - ray intensity .",
    "the intensity histogram for an iris  image taken near the second hard x - ray peak shown in figure  [ fig : hist ] illustrates the power - law distributions that are observed in the footpoints .",
    "the indexes on these distributions range between -1.5 and -2.5 and have a median value of about -1.6 .",
    "note that this index is fundamentally different than the spectral index on the non - thermal electron distribution .",
    "this index describes how the energy released during the flare is distributed across different field lines while the spectral index describes how energy is distributed across all of the electrons .                        the iris  slit provides another view on the physical conditions in the footpoints .",
    "during this period the slit was kept in a fixed position and spectra were recorded at a cadence of about 9.5s . to make the data easier to visualize we computed moments for each line profile .",
    "the moments are defined as @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the background subtracted intensity in units of dn s@xmath10 and @xmath11 is the width of a spectral pixel .",
    "this alternative definition of the width moment is used because it yields better performance for low count rates .",
    "we chose to compute moments instead of fitting the profiles because the moment calculation is much faster and , as we will see , the profiles are not particularly well represented by a single gaussian .",
    "we could fit multiple gaussians to these profiles , but such fits are often poorly constrained .",
    "we focus on the moment calculations for si4 1402.770 , c2 1334.535 , and o1 1355.598 .",
    "these lines are formed at progressively lower temperatures . in ionization equilibrium ,",
    "si4 peaks at @xmath12 , c2 at 4.4 , and o1 at or below 4.0 .",
    "we also consider the spectral region near the mg2 h & k doublet , which is sensitive to a wide range of temperatures in the solar chromosphere ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "these spectral features are optically thick and often show a strong reversal in the core of the line ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "as we will see , the profiles are not reversed during this flare and the gaussian moment is an adequate description of the line profile .",
    "we take the rest wavelengths for the doublet , 2796.354  for the k - line and 2803.531  for the h - line , from @xcite .",
    "fitting time - averaged profiles from the sunspot in this observation yields velocities of less than 1 km s@xmath10 with these wavelengths .",
    "we also investigated fe12 1349.382  ( 6.2 ) and fe21 1354.080  ( 7.05 ) , but did not detect emission in these lines .",
    "we will discuss the coronal component of these observations in section [ sec : hot ] .    in figure",
    "[ fig : si4 ] , [ fig : c2 ] , and [ fig : mg2 ] we show the intensity , doppler velocity , and width as a function of space and time for the si4 , c2 , and mg2 lines . the results for o1",
    "are not shown .",
    "these data are taken from the region around the southern brightening , which is the only flare - related emission observed along the slit .    during the event the intensity in si4 rises by about a factor of 1000",
    ", the intensity in c2 rises by about a factor of 100 , and the mg2 and o1 intensity rises by a factor of 10 . during the initial part of the event , from approximately 14:14 to 14:24ut , numerous increases in the intensity lasting about 30s are observed .",
    "these intensity bursts are well correlated among the various emission lines .",
    "after about 14:24 ut there is a slow decay phase during which the fluctuation level in the intensity of all of the lines is much lower .    during the event",
    "we also observe systematic red shifts in si4 and c2 . in si4",
    "the red shifts are typically 1040 km  s@xmath10 . in c2",
    "the red - shifts are somewhat smaller , at 530 km  s@xmath10 .",
    "mg2 shows red shifts associated with the strongest bursts .",
    "the o1 line shows essentially no change in velocity during the flare .",
    "this line typically shows a blue shift of about 2 km  s@xmath10 at all times , which likely reflects the uncertainty in the wavelength calibration .",
    "the red - shifts observed in si4 and c2 persist at elevated levels throughout the early part of the event . from approximately 14:14 to 14:24ut",
    "almost all of the intense emission in these lines is red - shifted . after this time",
    ", the persistent red - shifts appear to be more localized .",
    "there is a region around @xmath13 where the red - shifts last beyond 14:50 ut in both lines .    for si4 and c2",
    "we also observe changes in the line width during the event .",
    "these changes are similar in magnitude for both lines and well correlated with the intensity fluctuations .",
    "in contrast with the doppler shift , the line width observed for si iv and c ii is close to the pre - flare value during the decay of the event .",
    "again , o1 behaves differently , showing essentially no change in width during the flare .",
    "the moments give us a sense of how the bulk properties of the line profiles are evolving during the flare , but they also act to compress the data and may obscure important spectral features .",
    "we have not , for example , attempted to account for any unrelated emission along the line of sight and the observed profile could be a mixture of flare and non - flare components .    in figure",
    "[ fig : prof ] we display si4 , c2 , and mg2 line profiles as a function of time at a single spatial location .",
    "here we see the line profiles appear to be composed of two or more distinct components .",
    "we also see that the emission in these components is significantly enhanced over the background at all wavelengths during the flare . for si4 ,",
    "one of the components typically has a velocity of about 20 km  s@xmath10 while the other is at about 40 km  s@xmath10 .",
    "c2 also exhibits multiple components , but one is typically at rest while the other primary component is typically at about 2040 km  s@xmath10 .",
    "the mg2 profiles are similar to those of c2 .",
    "as is suggested by the lack of variation in the width , o1 does not show any complex dynamical evolution in the line profile .    the final piece of information on the physical conditions in the footpoints that we have considered comes from the eis  electron densities inferred from the fe14 264.787/274.203  ratio .",
    "as is indicated by the theoretical ratio taken from version 8 of chianti @xcite , this line ratio is sensitive to density up to about @xmath14 .",
    "since this ion is formed at about 2mk , this ratio can measure pressures to about @xmath15 , where the pressure has units of @xmath16  k. the eis  observations for this period consisted of a sparse scan across the active region using 3  steps .",
    "the spatial resolution along the slit was the nominal 1  per pixel . at each of the 20 positions a 9s exposure was taken .",
    "the resulting cadence for the scan , which included the detector readout , was about 3min 30s .",
    "we fit each profile in the rasters taken between 14:03 and 14:53 with gaussians . as is shown in figure  [",
    "fig : eis ] , the highest densities during this time were observed during an exposure taken at 14:19:14ut and indicate a pressure in the loop of @xmath17 .",
    "the pressure is an important constraint because it is directly related to the rate at which energy is deposited in the loop .",
    "the absolute intensity , in contrast , depends on both the heating rate and the filling factor ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .",
    "high - temperature flare loops are rooted in the footpoint regions observed with iris , rhessi , and eis .",
    "we can determine the properties of these loops directly through the observations available from xrt , aia , and eis . during this time xrt  took full - resolution images in the al - poly / open and be - thin / open filter combinations at a cadence of about 120s .",
    "xrt  has a plate scale of about 1  per spatial pixel .",
    "as noted earlier , aia  took full - resolution images in all of the euv channels at a cadence of about 12s and eis  executed a sparse raster over the active region .",
    "in addition to the fe14 lines discussed previously , eis  recorded the fe16 262.984 , fe23 263.760 , and fe24 192.040 .    in figure  [",
    "fig : smallfov ] we show selected images from xrt  and aia  from the small footpoint region near the sunspot penumbra .",
    "the temporal evolution of the intensities from this area is shown in figure  [ fig : rhessi ] . as one would expect , the high temperature emission peaks later than the footpoint emission observed with iris  and rhessi  @xcite .",
    "the key constraint that we hope to derive from these observations is a quantitative measure of the temperature distribution for the loops connected to the iris footpoints .",
    "we measure the temperature in two ways , first we compute filter ratios and then we consider the differential emission measure distribution .    for these calculations",
    "we consider the xrt , aia , and eis intensities in a small region just above the footpoints imaged in the iris slit .",
    "this is indicated by the black box shown in figure  [ fig : smallfov ] .",
    "ideally we would consider a point at the loop apex , but further away from the footpoints it becomes unclear if all of the high - temperature emission we observe connects to this footpoint region ( see the aia 94  image in figure  [ fig : context ] ) .",
    "we expect the temperature gradients in the corona to be relatively flat and it is unlikely that there will be significant differences between the region we have chosen and the actual loop apex .",
    "we estimate the length of these loops to be about 40 mm .    for the filter ratios we consider xrt  bethin / alpoly and aia  131/94 .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : teem ] , the temperatures derived from these two ratios are generally consistent .",
    "the temperatures begin at about @xmath18 and decline throughout the event",
    ". the aia  filter ratios can be multi - valued and we have chosen the temperature closest to that inferred from xrt .",
    "the emission measures derived from these ratios have very similar trends but differ in magnitude by about a factor of 2 .",
    "we have divided the xrt  intensities by 2 to bring the emission measures into agreement with those from aia .",
    "the fits to the rhessi spectra shown in figure  [ fig : spectra ] indicate somewhat higher temperatures than we have derived from the xrt  and aia  filter ratios . these temperatures",
    "are not directly comparable since the rhessi  spectra in this analysis are not spatially resolved and the filter ratios are taken from a very small area along a flare loop .",
    "we have analyzed the xrt  data for the entire field of view of the flare .",
    "we obtain a temperature of @xmath19 , again smaller than the 13mk observed with rhessi , and a volume emission measure of @xmath20 , which is about three orders of magnitude larger than what is observed with rhessi .",
    "these differences in the temperatures and the magnitudes of the emission measures suggest a distribution of temperatures in the flare loops rather than an isothermal plasma .",
    "further , it suggests that the temperature is likely peaking at about 10mk and falling rapidly at higher temperatures .    to estimate the differential emission measure ( dem ) in the flare loop of interest we need to invert the equation @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the temperature response of the line or bandpass that we have observed to have intensity @xmath23 and",
    "@xmath24 is essentially the distribution of temperatures in the loop .",
    "note that we calculate the differential emission measure distribution but , to facilitate comparisons with the emission measures computed from isothermal models , we plot @xmath25 .",
    "inverting this equation requires that we utilize observations over a wide range of temperatures .",
    "ideally we would include eis  intensities in these calculations .",
    "while xrt  is sensitive to very high temperature emission , fe23 263.760 , and fe24 192.040  provide more localized constraints on the dem inversion .",
    "significant intensity , however , was observed in these lines in only a few rasters . at most times",
    "we observe only background noise .",
    "the brightest emission was observed in an exposure taken at 14:22:48ut and in figure  [ fig : dem ] we show the dem computed using the intensities of the several eis  emission lines observed at that time .",
    "this dem , which was calculated used the monte carlo markov chain ( mcmc ) algorithm of @xcite , is broadly consistent with the isothermal models discussed previously .",
    "it peaks at about 10mk at falls off at both lower and higher temperatures .    to compute the dem at all other times when only aia  and xrt  are available we include `` pseudo intensities '' of @xmath26erg  @xmath27  s@xmath10  sr@xmath10 for the eis  fe23 263.760 , and fe24 192.040  lines .",
    "this biases the dem to lower values above 10mk and provides some consistency with the weak signal observed in these lines at most times .",
    "figure  [ fig : dem ] shows the dem computed in this way at three times .",
    "the dem calculated at 14:22:48ut is broadly consistent with the eis - only calculation at this time .",
    "two properties of the dem are of particular interest : the temperature of the peak and the slope from the peak to lower temperatures .",
    "the peak in the dem will constrain the energy flux .",
    "large energy fluxes will produce high temperatures and it is clear from the observations that the amount of plasma at 1020mk is relatively small for this event , as might be expected if the energy fluxes occur on a power - law distribution .",
    "the slope of the dem away from the peak is also an important constraint on multi - threaded modeling of the flare . modeling the event as many small - scale strands that are evolving independently will tend to broaden the dem and these observations limit that . to make such comparisons more quantitative",
    "we have calculated a power - law slope for the em using a function of the form @xmath28 from the peak to @xmath29 .",
    "since the mcmc code provides a statistical ensemble of solutions , we fit each one individually and record the median and standard deviation in the results . during the initial part of the flare the slopes are very steep with @xmath30 typically in the range of 56 . during the later part of the event cooler plasma",
    "is observed , the temperature broadens out , and @xmath30 is typically in the range of 13 . because of the uncertainty in the dem calculation at temperatures above the peak , we do not consider the high - temperature slope .",
    "we have presented the analysis of a microflare observed with iris , rhessi , aia , xrt , and eis . in combination , these observations give us a comprehensive view of both the energy deposition at the flare footpoints , including the properties of the non - thermal electrons and the response of the transition region to the heating that they produce , and the high - temperature loops that form there . at the high spatial and temporal resolution of iris",
    "we observe that footpoint dynamics are characterized by numerous , small - scale impulsive bursts typically lasting 60s or less .",
    "the resulting distribution of footpoint intensities in the si4 slit - jaw images follows a power - law with an index of about -1.7 .",
    "iris  observations in si4 , c2 , mg2 , and o1 allow us to follow the propagation of the energy deposited in the footpoints to lower heights in the solar atmosphere .",
    "we observe a progressively weaker response to heating with depth .",
    "the observations from xrt , aia , and eis  show the formation of high - temperature loops rooted in these footpoints .",
    "these loops have a relatively narrow range of temperatures peaked at about 10mk , consistent with dems computed for large flares ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the comparison of xrt  and rhessi  temperatures and emission measures from the full field of view of the event suggests that the temperature distribution falls very rapidly from 10mk to 13mk .",
    "this analysis highlights the difficulty of combining observations with vastly different spatial resolution .",
    "for example , the images derived from rhessi  clearly show hard x - ray emission in the vicinity of the footpoint brightenings observed with iris .",
    "it is not clear , however , if this hard x - ray emission is limited to specific footpoints or covers most of the flare ribbon . the strong correlation between the integrated hard x - ray emission and iris  footpoint intensities shown in figure  [ fig : rhessi ] suggests pervasive hard x - ray emission along the flare ribbon , but more observations are needed to confirm this point .",
    "the comprehensive observations provided by iris , rhessi , eis , xrt , and aia  create an extensive set of requirements for numerical simulations to reproduce .",
    "a successful model of this event must account for    1 .",
    "an increase in si4 intensity of about @xmath31 over the background level that persist for 600s or more , with smaller increases for c2 , mg2 , and o1 , 2 .",
    "red - shifts in si4 that persist for 600s or more , with weaker red - shifts in c2 and mg2 , and no doppler shifts for o1 , 3 .",
    "multi - component line profiles for si4 , c2 , and mg2 with little emission at the rest wavelength for si4 but a significant stationary component for c2 and mg2 , 4 .",
    "dems that are sharply peaked near 10mk or less , 5 .",
    "loop pressures of about @xmath32 ( in units of @xmath16k ) .",
    "we are currently working on a companion paper @xcite that focuses on the one - dimensional hydrodynamic modeling of this event with the hydrodynamics and radiation code ( hydrad ; @xcite ) .",
    "perhaps the most significant challenge presented by these data is the persistent redshifts observed in si4 and c2 .",
    "persistent red - shifts have been observed with iris  for a number of events and are not an idiosyncrasy of the data that we have analyzed ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it has been known for some time that `` chromospheric condensations '' accompany evaporative upflows during impulsive flare heating ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these downflows , however , are predicted to dissipate on time - scales of 2060s @xcite , making it difficult to simulate the flows that we observe in a single iris  pixel with a single loop model .",
    "numerous , small - scale threads appear to be necessary .    this work was supported by nasa s hinode project .",
    "the research leading to these results has also received funding from the european community s seventh framework programme ( fp7/2007 - 2013 ) under grant agreement no .",
    "606862 ( f - chroma ) ( pjas ) .",
    "iris is a nasa small explorer developed and operated by lmsal with mission operations executed at nasa ames research center and major contributions to downlink communications funded by the norwegian space center through an esa prodex contract .",
    "chianti is a collaborative project involving george mason university , the university of michigan ( usa ) and the university of cambridge ( uk ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we exploit the high spatial resolution and high cadence of the interface region imaging spectrograph  ( iris ) to investigate the response of the transition region and chromosphere to energy deposition during a small flare . </S>",
    "<S> simultaneous observations from rhessi  provide constraints on the energetic electrons precipitating into the flare footpoints while observations of xrt , aia , and eis  allow us to measure the temperatures and emission measures from the resulting flare loops . we find clear evidence for heating over an extended period on the spatial scale of a single iris  pixel . during the impulsive phase of this event the intensities in each pixel for the si41402.770 , c21334.535 , mg2 2796.354 , and o1 1355.598  emission lines are characterized by numerous , small - scale bursts typically lasting 60s or less . </S>",
    "<S> red shifts are observed in si4 , c2 , and mg2 during the impulsive phase . </S>",
    "<S> mg2 shows red - shifts during the bursts and stationary emission at other times . </S>",
    "<S> the si4 and c2 profiles , in contrast , are observed to be red - shifted at all times during the impulsive phase . </S>",
    "<S> these persistent red - shifts are a challenge for one - dimensional hydrodynamic models , which predict only short - duration downflows in response to impulsive heating . </S>",
    "<S> we conjecture that energy is being released on many small - scale filaments with a power - law distribution of heating rates . </S>"
  ]
}