{
  "article_text": [
    "3d printing technology is evolving continuously in various directions .",
    "the development of scientific tools is one of the areas that is more rapidly growing since it is opening the possibility of using state - of - the - art scientific equipment at a fraction of the cost with respect to commercial alternatives  @xcite .",
    "the implementation of opto - mechanical components using 3d printing has a direct impact on the photonics community  @xcite .",
    "researchers are no longer constrained to work with available commercial elements and therefore their experimental setups can be more versatile . thanks to the fact that the fabrication time is minimal , the components can evolve very fast from the researchers experience and that evolution process can be a creative way to engage young researchers in photonics .",
    "moreover , the components 3d printed can be considered as prototypes and thus large manufacturers can take this ideas and build better equipment .",
    "additionally , since the 3d printers based on fused filament fabrication ( fff ) are becoming more affordable the opto - mechanical components of our set can be fabricated practically in any location .",
    "it is important to highlight that since the components fabricated have a similar performance than low - end commercial alternatives in terms of stability and robustness , the approach presented here makes photonics more accessible to industry and academia both in developed and developing countries , enlarging significantly the size of the community interested in performing experiments in photonics and related fields  @xcite . in economically developed countries",
    ", the ideas presented here constitutes a way to reduce increasingly rising costs , and in developing countries , allows to overcome funding restrictions and large lead times due to customs and administrative procedures  @xcite .    the toolbox presented in this letter",
    "is composed of components highly customizable , low - cost , that require a short time to be fabricated , offer a performance that compares favourably with respect to low - end commercial alternatives , that are also aimed at complementing other component libraries already available on internet  @xcite .",
    "we have designed and fabricated a set of opto - mechanical components that are essential in any optics laboratory either for research or teaching . for the sake of illustration",
    "we have fabricated all the opto - mechanical components to construct a michelson - morley interferometer , since it is an experimental setup that requires a very diverse set of opto - mechanical components for its implementation . in figure",
    "[ fig : figure1]a we present some of the components fabricated , such as * kinematic mounts * , used to set the tip and tilt of mirrors or lenses , * translation stages * , used to set the position of a component along a single axis with high precision , * kinematic platforms * , used to support and set the position of components such as prisms or beam splitters .",
    "in addition we have also built an * integrating sphere * , used to measure the power of a light source and other basic components such as * post holders * and * post clamps*. all the plastic parts were printed using a prusa - tairona  @xcite 3d printer that cost @xmath0 and is manufactured in colombia .",
    "+    the complete scheme of fabrication used to build the opto - mechanical components consists of two parts . in the first ,",
    "the main elements are built in plastic using a standard 3d fabrication process that can be described as follows : to start , a 3d model of the component is designed using a cad software for instance openscad , blender , solid works , or can be downloaded from a digital design repository like thingiverse if the model has been already designed . for our purposes ,",
    "all the plastic components were designed using openscad , an open - source , script - based software that generates 3d models by combining ( adding or subtracting ) primitive shapes such as cylinders , spheres and cubes , that is very easy to use .",
    "once the model is available , it is further converted using another software , like slicer or cura , into printing instructions for the 3d printer . in our case",
    ", the prusa tayrona printer uses the programs repetier host and slicer to generate the instructions ( gcode ) and print the piece , respectively .",
    "afterwards , the component is fabricated using an additive manufacturing technology known as fused filament fabrication ( fff ) in which a filament of pla ( polylactic acid , a non - toxic , biodegradable thermoplastic polymer made from plant - based resources such as corn starch or sugar cane ) is heated and then extruded through a hot nozzle .",
    "the hot plastic is deposited layer by layer following a given pattern so that each layer binds with the layer below to build a solid object . a moving platform or moving nozzle",
    "determines the position of the hot filament and thus the shape of the solid object printed ( figures [ fig : figure1]b and [ fig : figure1]c ) .",
    "once the main components are printed , the second part of the construction process starts .",
    "the plastic elements printed are combined with components like nuts , screws , bolts , washers , springs and rods , easily found on a hardware store , to create a fully functional opto - mechanical component .",
    "figures [ fig : figure2]a and [ fig : figure2]b depict a drive screw mechanism implemented by embedding a nut in the plastic .",
    "figure [ fig : figure2]c shows the implementation of a linear bearing using a rod .",
    "it is interesting to note that even though the individual components added in the second part are not designed for high precision applications , we have found that the opto - mechanical components fabricated with them , provide very similar performance with respect to its commercial counterpart , as is shown in the results section .",
    "+      a kinematic mount ( km ) is an opto - mechanical component used to adjust precisely the tip and tilt of a mirror ( or lens ) , while it holds the component securely in place , as shown in figure [ fig : figure3]a .",
    "similarly , a kinematic platform ( kp ) may be seen as a rotated kinematic mirror mount that is mainly used to control the tip and tilt of a flat surface where other components such as prisms , beam splitters or non - standard optics are secured .",
    "+    our proposed implementation of the kinematic mirror mount , follows the widely used cone , groove , and flat constraint scheme@xcite , and is based on the original design of doug marett@xcite that can be found on thingiverse .",
    "the mount is implemented by printing two pieces of plastic ( figure [ fig : figure3]b ) that are joint together using a sphere and two springs secured with two rods on each side .",
    "the drive screw mechanism is built using two nuts that are embedded into the plastic .",
    "two m4 screws with rounded nuts in one end are used to adjust the tip and tilt respectively ( figure [ fig : figure3]c ) .",
    "the rounded nuts are used to keep the two plastic pieces into position and to reduce any unwanted motion .",
    "a complete list of the required materials is presented in table  [ table1 ] .    .",
    "* bill of materials for kinematic mount * [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     @xmath1 printing cost of 0.5 eur / @xmath2 is assumed .",
    "to determine the performance of the opto - mechanical components fabricated , a direct comparison with respect to its commercial counterpart was carried out by using the experimental setups presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : figure6 ] .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : figure6]a it is shown the scheme used to compare the kinematic mounts .",
    "the input beam is generated using a he - ne laser with gaussian spatial profile and a beam waist of @xmath3 .",
    "after two reflections , the beam is reflected in a mirror mounted on the kinematic mount to be tested ( indicated in blue ) and its centroid position is monitored using a webcam located at @xmath4 with respect to the mirror vertical axis .",
    "a routine written in python , that uses the opencv library , records the beam centroid as a function of different angles .",
    "the beam reference position is determined by aligning initially the beam with respect to the two irises 1 and 2 located before the camera .     +    to test the performance of the translation stage , the setup shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : figure6]b is used .",
    "the beam reflected by the beam splitter ( bs ) is reflected by a mirror located in the translation stage to be characterized .",
    "the ts is positioned in such a way that the beam reflected passes through the two irises for different positions .    in order to evaluate the performance of each opto - mechanical component , two sets of measurements",
    "were carried out .",
    "the first is taken using the 3d printed component and the second the commercial device .    for the kinematic mount , the interval @xmath5 in the horizontal and vertical directions",
    "is divided equally in seven points .",
    "each direction is scanned ten times by rotating either the x and y knob , in order to evaluate the hysteresis and repetability of the component .",
    "figures [ fig : figure7]a and [ fig : figure7]b show the centroid position as a function of the x or y knob rotation , respectively . in both cases",
    "is clearly seen that the 3d printed kinematic mount , exhibits the same behaviour as its commercial counterpart , in this case a thorlabs km100 mount .",
    "in fact , when the beam is shifted in one direction , the other is confined within the same small interval as the commercial component . from the characterization ,",
    "the only difference observed between both components appears in the sensitivity experienced in the knob rotation , determined by the screw thread .",
    "+    for the translation stage , two set of measurements where performed over the interval @xmath6 , where the translation step was set to @xmath7 .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : figure8 ] . from the results",
    "is observed for the commercial ts , the beam drift lies within the interval @xmath8 . on the other hand ,",
    "the 3d printed ts provides a worse performance , particularly for displacements beyond @xmath9 , where the rounded screw exerts a significant pressure on the moving platform .",
    "this pressure gives rise to the unwanted displacement observed in the y - direction .",
    "fortunately , for small translations , below @xmath9 , the device presents an acceptable performance where the beam experiences a drift that lies within an interval of tenths of degrees .",
    "notice that this unwanted beam displacement is imperceptible to the eye .",
    "regarding the integrating sphere , it is found that it exhibits a non linear response as a function of the input beam intensity .",
    "figure  [ fig : figure9]a displays an example of the device response as a function of the input intensity . from the fitted data , a calibration curve is obtained that is further used to determine the response of the power meter . for the sake of example ,",
    "[ fig : figure9]b presents a single wavelength ( @xmath10 ) comparison between a commercial power meter and a 3d printed integrating sphere . from the data",
    "is observed a maximum relative error of less than @xmath11 . in the experiment the light intensity is controlled by changing the angle between two crossed polarizers .",
    "we have developed and characterized a set of opto - mechanical components that can be easily implemented using a 3d printer based on fused filament fabrication ( fff ) and parts that can be found on any hardware store .",
    "in particular we have compared three of the main components required to implement a michelson - morley interferometer , namely a kinematic mount , a translation stage and an integrating sphere with respect to commercial alternatives .    from our results , we have found that 3d printing provides a suitable alternative to implement experimental equipment in scenarios where is not required a high precision .",
    "surprisingly , the 3d printed kinematic mount provides a very similar performance with respect to its commercial counterpart .",
    "even though the results obtained for the translation stage are not so optimistic , since the beam drift is imperceptible to the eye , the device can be suitable for undergraduate laboratories .",
    "regarding the integrating sphere , we have developed and demonstrated a simple accessory that can be printed in order to convert a webcam into a power detector .",
    "importantly , in all cases we have found that a 3d printer is an extremely useful resource in any laboratory since it opens the possibility to fabricate experimental equipment that is highly customizable , at a low cost with respect to commercial alternatives , and more importantly in a very small period of time .",
    "ljss and av acknowledge support from facultad de ciencias , u. de los andes .",
    "w. gao , y. zhang , d. ramanujan , k. ramani , y. chen , c. b. williams , c. c. l. wang , y. c. shin , s. zhang , p. d. zavattieri , `` the status , challenges , and future of additive manufacturing in engineering '' , computer - aided design , 69 , 65 ( 2015 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> nowadays is very common to find headlines in the media where it is stated that 3d printing is a technology called to change our lives in the near future  @xcite . for many authors </S>",
    "<S> , we are living in times of a third industrial revolution  @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> howerver , we are currently in a stage of development where the use of 3d printing is advantageous over other manufacturing technologies only in rare scenarios . </S>",
    "<S> fortunately , scientific research is one of them  @xcite . here </S>",
    "<S> we present the development of a set of opto - mechanical components that can be built easily using a 3d printer based on fused filament fabrication ( fff ) and parts that can be found on any hardware store . </S>",
    "<S> the components of the set presented here are highly customizable , low - cost , require a short time to be fabricated and offer a performance that compares favorably with respect to low - end commercial alternatives . </S>"
  ]
}