{
  "article_text": [
    "novae are a sub - type of cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) , in which a white dwarf and a donor star form a short - period close binary system ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "they are defined as systems with the largest outburst amplitude among other sub - types of cvs during which the thermonuclear runaway within a hydrogen - rich layer on the surface of the white dwarf leads to the explosive ejection of the nova shell .",
    "classical nova outbursts can be observed only once in the observational history of a nova , while with higher mass transfer rates and more massive white dwarf companions than a typical nova , recurrent novae show repeating smaller amplitude nova outbursts within their lifetimes ( see for a review * ? ? ?",
    "since novae are exclusively discovered during an outburst phase , classification of these systems is generally based on the observed properties of this event eg . , speed class ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or spectral class @xcite .",
    "alternative classifications , based solely on the evolutionary state of the companion star or the shape and the time to decline by 3 mag from the peak of the outburst , have also been proposed @xcite .",
    "in addition , novae have also been classified as ` disc ' or ` bulge ' novae , on the basis of their parent stellar population and location within the host galaxy @xcite .",
    "specifically , the he / n class novae tend to concentrate close to the galactic plane with a typical scale height of @xmath0 pc , whereas the fe  ii novae are distributed more homogeneously up to @xmath1  pc , or even beyond @xcite , where @xmath2 represents the vertical distance from the galactic disc . for our galaxy ,",
    "spatial distribution analyses of novae predict that they should be located mostly close to the galactic plane with a typical scale height of @xmath3  pc @xcite .",
    "however , these studies lack the necessary statistical significance due to considerable errors in the distance measurements .",
    "measuring the distances of novae in a reliable way can be very useful in the calculation of both the astrophysical parameters and the spatial distribution of these close binary systems .",
    "the expansion parallax method allows the distance to be determined if the angular expansion of the nova shell can be resolved several years after the outburst .",
    "however , application of the expansion parallax method runs into some difficulties .",
    "first , the expansion velocities measured from the profiles of various spectral lines differ significantly .",
    "second , a uniform shell expansion has to be assumed .",
    "third , an uncertainty in estimating the angular size of the shell often arises because of its complex structure . despite all of the uncertainties ,",
    "the distance estimates obtained by the expansion parallax method are believed to be the most reliable ones following after the trigonometric parallax method . however , the number of novae with detected shells is only about 30 in the entire history of their observations .",
    "furthermore , all of these are nearby systems , usually not farther than 2  kpc @xcite .",
    "if the outburst light curve of a nova is observed , its distance can be photometrically calculated from the maximum magnitude rate of decline ( mmrd ) relations for galactic ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and extragalactic nova populations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , a recent study by @xcite has discovered a sample of faint and fast extragalactic novae that caused the authors to question whether the mmrd relation is justified at all , and they also demonstrated that the mmrd relation does not work for recurrent novae .    in this study",
    ", we aim to measure the distances of a large number of galactic novae , for which independent extinction measurements exist , in a systematic manner using the red clump giants ( rcs ) in the same line of sight as a standard candle .",
    "the distance of each nova was determined by comparing the specific extinction  distance relation for the line of sight of the nova derived from the rcs , and its independent extinction measurement .",
    "section [ extsec ] presents an overview of the various methods used to determine the amount of extinction for galactic novae , emphasizing their advantages and disadvantages in the determination of the actual amount of interstellar matter . in section [ methodsec ]",
    "we describe our method in detail , while we present the results of the application of our method to a large number of novae in section [ disres ] . a review of our method and a discussion of the possible uncertainties associated with it are given in section [ concsec ] where we also discuss some of the implications of our results . finally ,",
    "as an appendix , we present a short review of the reddening measurements and earlier distance determinations for each individual object .",
    "our aim is to determine the distances of a sample of galactic novae following a systematic approach . in this context",
    ", an independent and reliable measurement of interstellar reddening towards each nova in question is needed . in this section ,",
    "we discuss some of the methods used to infer the interstellar reddening towards a certain nova and present the value used in this study together with a comparison of the measurements for each nova in appendix [ appasec ] .",
    "there are a number of methods , all with varying accuracy , to estimate the interstellar extinction towards a galactic nova . for stellar studies",
    "there is a rich set of spectroscopic methods , which lead to the estimation of the interstellar extinction .",
    "for example @xmath4 is best determined by comparing line fluxes of the source and an unreddened standard object , which have nearly identical spectroscopic features to the source in question .",
    "however , neither this method nor the continuum fitting method based on stellar atmospheric models can be applied to a nova because of the fact that the models are still quite rudimentary and the lack of such reference objects .",
    "thus , indirect methods are usually preferred .",
    "these methods often require either high  resolution spectroscopy to reveal interstellar lines ( e.g. , na  i ( @xmath5 and @xmath6 ) and k  i ( @xmath7 ) , the line strengths of optical and near - ir spectroscopy of o  i lines * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) or other lines , which are known to be correlated with the colour excess .",
    "there are a few difficulties in using spectral lines for the determination of the interstellar reddening .",
    "first , the spectral line widths of novae are large and the line structure is complex .",
    "line profiles are occasionally asymmetric , making it difficult to separate an individual spectral line from blended features .",
    "second , it is not always possible to examine the same spectral line for all novae , since the spectral evolution of each nova is unpredictable and peculiar .",
    "another reddening estimation method is based on the 2200  feature , which is characterized by the presence of a broad interstellar absorption bump in the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) .",
    "since the ultraviolet ( uv ) band is very sensitive to the effects of the interstellar medium , even a small amount of reddening can be derived by modelling the sed with an @xmath4 that accounts for the extinction bump . however , low sensitivity of the spectrographs in the uv wavelength range and high noise complicate the estimation of the interstellar extinction .    on the other hand ,",
    "the colour index of a nova at a certain outburst phase can be used to also estimate the interstellar extinction , assuming that all novae have similar colour indices at the same outburst phase .",
    "@xcite derived general trends of colour evolution in the outburst light curves of novae , and inferred the intrinsic colour of novae as @xmath8  mag when the brightness of a nova reaches its maximum and @xmath9  mag when the nova faded 2 mag from the outburst maximum , where the subscript ` 0 ' denotes the unreddened colour .",
    "similarly , @xcite suggested that the intrinsic colour is @xmath10  mag at the stabilization stage , which occurs when the colour evolution of the nova stabilizes soon after the optical maximum .",
    "recently , @xcite have improved the colour - colour evolution of novae using revised distances and extinctions , and compared the reddening estimates obtained using the intrinsic colours given above .",
    "@xcite showed that the intrinsic colour methods often show large deviations , and the one at the stabilization stage seems to be more useful .",
    "however , since novae in general are peculiar non - stationary objects , and a nova outburst is an unpredictable event , it is always possible to miss an observation that must be done at a certain phase .",
    "we collected all the interstellar reddening estimates , published before 2016 april , for 152 galactic novae from the literature .",
    "note that , the estimates based on the use of interstellar reddening maps were ignored .",
    "galactic coordinates of these systems are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig1.1 ] . for the distance calculation",
    ", we preferred to use the reddening values obtained from spectra , especially the ones measured through the use of uncontaminated lines , e.g. na  i , k  i or hydrogen column density , 2200   feature and finally line ratios .",
    "reddening values obtained from photometry were used if there is no other reddening value available from spectroscopy .",
    "short discussions of the adopted reddening estimates of each individual nova are given in appendix  [ appasec ]    ) , ( @xmath11 ) and ( @xmath12 ) indicate the ones for which the distances could be obtained , only lower limits could be calculated , and the ones for which the distance could not be calculated , respectively .",
    "estimations were explained in section [ disres].,scaledwidth=35.0% ]",
    "just like a normal horizontal branch star the rc stars are core helium - burning giants .",
    "they have long been proposed as standard candles @xcite , owing to their compact distribution in colour - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) of open clusters as well as globular clusters .",
    "they are well separated from the main - sequence stars and red giants .",
    "location of the rc stars in a cmd presents an opportunity to obtain a measurement of their mean absolute magnitude and intrinsic colour .",
    "furthermore , and especially in a near - ir cmd , dependence of the location of these stars on the metallicity is very weak .",
    "thus , it is possible to use these stars as tracers of galactic reddening - distance relation in a given line of sight , accounting for a small dispersion of their absolute magnitude and intrinsic colour .",
    "such a relation can then be used to infer the distance of a particular object , in the same field of view , for which the extinction is known .",
    "a very similar technique has been successfully applied before to several x - ray sources @xcite .    to use the mean absolute magnitudes of the rc stars in distance estimation",
    ", their absolute magnitudes and intrinsic colours in a particular photometric system are expected to be free of metallicity and age .",
    "considering the @xmath13 and @xmath14 bands of the two micron all - sky surver ( 2mass ) photometric system , which are used in this study , numerical studies suggest that the infrared magnitudes , especially @xmath15 band , have only a small dependence on metallicity and age both observationally ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and theoretically @xcite . the intrinsic colour @xmath16 is affected by these parameters due to the dependence of the @xmath14 band on the metallicity and age . for our case , this effect is negligible as there is no large metallicity gradient in the galactic disc @xcite . here , we adopted an absolute magnitude of @xmath17  mag and an intrinsic colour of @xmath18  mag from @xcite for the rc population based on the re - reduced _ hipparcos _ rc data using the same methodology as in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "these values are not only the most recent ones , but also compatible with the former ones ; cf . @xmath19 mag @xcite from _ hipparcos _ sample , @xmath20  mag from 14 open clusters and @xmath21  mag for ngc2158 @xcite , @xmath22  mag for 24 open clusters @xcite , @xmath23  mag @xcite based on the re - reduced _ hipparcos _ catalogue @xcite , @xmath24  mag and @xmath25  mag for the rc stars in the solar neighbourhood @xcite .",
    "in order to use the specific extinction - distance relation derived from the rc stars in a galactic field including a particular galactic nova , the @xmath26 cmd should be constructed first .",
    "for this purpose , we used several near - ir surveys , namely , ( i ) 2mass @xcite , ( ii ) visible and infrared survey telescope for astronomy - vista variables in the via lactea survey ( vista - vvv ; * ? ? ?",
    "* dr2 ) , and ( iii ) the united kingdom infrared deep sky survey - galactic plane survey ( ukidss - gps ; * ? ? ?",
    "all of these surveys complement each other regarding the completeness limits and sky coverage , which is an advantage that allows us not only to trace the rc stars through the stellar fields , but also to study galactic novae in a wide - range of the distances .",
    "for example , 2mass extends the study further from the galactic plane owing to its observing policy covering the whole sky , whereas ukidss - gps is only mapping @xmath27 , @xmath28 in the galactic plane , and vista - vvv observes the galactic bulge in range @xmath29 , @xmath30 and the galactic disc in range @xmath31 , @xmath32 . here ,",
    "@xmath33 and @xmath34 are the galactic longitude and latitude , respectively",
    ". the lower limit of magnitudes in the vista and ukidss @xmath35 bands are about 18.0  mag for most of the stellar fields , while it reaches to @xmath36  mag for the crowded fields , which are approximately 4 mag fainter than 2mass . on the other hand ,",
    "2mass photometry allows us to determine the nearest rc stars in the cmds up to @xmath37 mag , which is 3 mag lower than the saturation limit of @xmath38 mag in vista and ukidss @xmath35 bands .    since the photometric bands of the ukidss survey are not based on the 2mass zero - points , we converted them to the 2mass magnitudes of the rc stars using the transformation equations given by @xcite :    @xmath39     + where the subscript @xmath40 refers to the 2mass system and subscript u refers to the ukidss .    using @xmath14 and @xmath35 magnitudes from each survey ,",
    "when available , cmds were created to estimate the distance of a given nova from the reddening - distance relation . in our analyses",
    ", we preferred to use vvv data , switching to ukidss and finally to 2mass .",
    "however , for some of the directions , it was necessary to combine two or three catalogues by cross - matching the object coordinates . for this purpose , we used a matching radius of 1arcsec and limit the magnitude and colour differences to @xmath41 mag and @xmath42 mag , respectively .",
    "positions of the rc stars on a cmd depend on their absolute magnitude , intrinsic colour , distance and extinction .",
    "since absolute magnitudes and intrinsic colours of rc stars are similar , a change only in the extinction causes a horizontal displacement of their position while a vertical displacement of the position is a result of distance or extinction change .",
    "therefore , the extinction can be determined by comparing intrinsic colour and mean observed colour . using this information and the mean absolute magnitude of the rc stars ,",
    "the distance can be derived from the pogson s equation . on the contrary , in a region of the galaxy with low extinction",
    "they trace almost a vertical line on the cmd throughout the line of sight .    in order to determine the approximate region in which the rc stars are located in an observational cmd",
    ", we used galaxia @xcite .",
    "this is a code to generate synthetic models of the galaxy .",
    "the code constructs a catalogue of stars based on the specified colour and magnitude limits and a coordinate set .",
    "the interstellar extinction ( or reddening ) at any given distance and the galactic coordinates of a star can be calculated by a model of the density of interstellar material ( for details see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ] :    @xmath43     + following the results of @xcite and @xcite , colour excess at infinite distance given by @xcite is reduced by a factor depending on interstellar reddening and the line of sight .",
    "we obtained the rc trace by evaluating the interstellar extinction in steps of 5  pc of the distance using @xmath44 @xcite , and placed them on both observational and theoretical cmds .",
    "boundary lines , which limit the region where the rc stars are located on cmds , were derived by shifting the rc trace in equal amounts for both directions on the colour axis ( figs .",
    "[ fig:1.2]a and b ) .",
    "the width of the band limited by the boundary lines was determined after a number of trials to maximize the number of rc stars while avoiding stars of other spectral types .",
    "once a broad region in which the rc stars should be located is identified , magnitude intervals for the @xmath15 band , from which the reddening will be calculated , can be determined .",
    "the lower limit of @xmath15 magnitude interval was derived following the rc build - up .",
    "then , the magnitude intervals were derived in steps of a given distance ( usually 300 or 400  pc ) from the lower limit . however ,",
    "if the number of stars in a particular magnitude interval was less than 20 , then the range was extended to larger magnitudes until the number of stars became 20 , and then new magnitude intervals were derived in steps of corresponding distance from the re - constructed limit . since , the margin between magnitude intervals decreases at larger distances , we set a lower limit of about 0.2 - 0.3  mag on the range of the magnitude intervals .     deg@xmath45 line of sight .",
    "black dashed lines are boundary lines for selections of the rc stars ; black dots show @xmath46 colours of rc stars ; _ n _ is the total number of stars in the area , _ a _ is the solid angle , @xmath47 are galactic coordinates .",
    "the reddening estimate of the nova is also given .",
    "colour scale is shown below the figure .",
    "note that : maximum number of stars for each bin is shown by red colour.,scaledwidth=44.0% ]    following the summarized method , histograms for the colour indices of stars in each magnitude interval can be obtained .",
    "a peak in this histogram would mostly reveal the presence of the rc and some giant stars , that dominate the distribution of the background stars ( generally represented by a second  order polynomial ) , because the colour difference between the rc and rg stars is very small .",
    "note that the same holds also for the temperatures and surface gravities of these two sub - samples .",
    "thus , we expect a possible contamination by the rg stars in our study .",
    "the effects of this possible contamination will be also considered in following paragraph .",
    "fitting the resulting histograms with a gaussian , the @xmath48 colours for the rc stars can be derived , along with its apparent width , which is defined through the standard deviation of the gaussian fit .",
    "this model is used and defined by many authors ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , as follows : @xmath49\\\\ & + a\\ \\exp\\left[b\\ ( \\mu-\\mu_\\text{rc})\\right ]      \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] + here , @xmath50 is the number of the rc stars within each magnitude interval , @xmath51 is the centre of the fitted curve that is in fact the estimated colour , @xmath52 is the dispersion of the colour . @xmath53 and @xmath54 fit an exponential profile to the colour distribution of the rg stars .",
    "note that , we prefer median values of the colour indices rather than using the gaussian fit for the magnitude intervals which contain less than 50 stars . for these intervals , we calculate the uncertainty of @xmath55 from the standard deviation of the colours .",
    "once the statistically significant colours and the associated uncertainties are calculated , the @xmath56 colour excesses were derived from the difference between these values and the assumed intrinsic colour of the rc stars .",
    "the relation for the total absorption , @xmath57 , is adopted from @xcite .",
    "this equation leads to the calculation of the distance @xmath58 .",
    "although the reddening curve can be calculated by this process , the number of rc stars may not be dominant in a given magnitude interval , leading to a difference in the extinction from the general trend .",
    "a scatter can also be caused by the background distribution of stars from various spectral types . in order correct for such a possible scatter",
    ", we utilized the galaxia extinction curve to fit the theoretical curve with the observational curve obtained in this study .",
    "when an observed extinction measurement at a certain distance deviates from the galaxia prediction and also from the observed general trend by about @xmath59 , we re - analysed the magnitude interval in question using one of the following methods : for the @xmath13 band magnitude interval in use , the colour index @xmath48 was re - calculated :    1 .   from the peak of the @xmath60 histogram .",
    "2 .   from the median of the @xmath60 histogram .",
    "3 .   using two gaussians to fit the @xmath60 histogram distribution .",
    "4 .   using two gaussians plus a polynomial function model to fit the @xmath60 histogram distribution .",
    "if the new colour excess value shows a better agreement , it was used .",
    "otherwise , we just left the original result from equation ( [ eq:1.6 ] ) .",
    "note that such a correction was only performed for individual reddening measurements and was not used to modify the inferred trend as found observationally from rcs .",
    "finally , we obtained the reddening - distance relation for the line of sight of the nova in question .",
    "the contamination of the rc sample caused by dwarf stars must also be considered .",
    "the selection method used here can not separate the dwarf and giant populations . in order to understand the influence of the dwarf / giant contamination , individual boundary lines were placed on the cmds obtained from the galaxia code ( fig . [",
    "fig:1.2]b ) and predicted ratio between the dwarfs and the giants plus dwarfs were calculated using the stellar parameters in @xcite : @xmath61 for dwarfs , @xmath62 for rg+rc stars .",
    "examples are given in fig .",
    "[ fig:1.3 ] for four different directions in the galaxy .",
    "note that the first points in fig .",
    "[ fig:1.3 ] are not statistically important due to lack of stars .",
    "it is clear that the dwarf contribution begins to be important towards fainter magnitudes , especially for magnitudes fainter than @xmath63-  14 mag .",
    "the dwarf contamination for regions close to the galactic plane is expected to be smaller ( in other words , its efficiency begins at fainter magnitudes ) , since higher reddening in this region will shift the giants to redder colours .",
    "meanwhile the dwarfs which have similar magnitudes as giants will remain in the blue part of the cmds , because the effect of reddening on their colours is lesser . as a result , the dwarf and giant stars can be separated .",
    "therefore we considered this effect in the calculation of the reddening - distance relation for each galactic nova , and set an upper limit the magnitude interval so that the dwarf contamination is lesser than @xmath64 .",
    "the uncertainty in the extinction was estimated from the uncertainty of the mean colour derived from the gaussian fit , @xmath65 . however , this uncertainty is only an indicator of the statistical error .",
    "the total uncertainty in the extinction was determined taking into account the uncertainty of the intrinsic colour of rc stars , @xmath66 , and adding both uncertainties in quadrature : @xmath67 .",
    "the distances of the galactic novae were estimated comparing the reddening - distance relations obtained from the rc stars with the colour excesses @xmath68 @xcite for the novae .",
    "as mentioned in section  [ extsec ] , the colour excesses of novae were compiled from the literature . in the comparison",
    ", we preferred to use the probability distribution of the extinction , which is denoted as @xmath69 for the nova in question and the one obtained for the rc stars for each magnitude bin as @xmath70 .",
    "these distributions were represented by gaussian functions . since there is no prior either for the extinction or the distance , the probability functions @xmath70 and @xmath71 were assumed to be equal .",
    "the total probability distribution was calculated taking into account the product of these two independent probability distributions and integrating them over the reddening :    @xmath72     + we solved this integral and obtained the final probability distribution of the distance ( fig .",
    "[ fig:1.4 ] ) of a given nova . in order to find the most likely distance from this distribution , we smoothed the distribution using a spline function and took the maximum value .",
    "we fitted the distribution with a gaussian curve to determine the uncertainty of our measurement together with the most likely distance value , if the distribution had a gaussian profile .",
    "however , the resulting distribution can not always be represented by a simple gaussian curve . in these cases , we calculated the total area under the probability distribution , normalized it to 1 and determined the range , from the most likely value , in which the area is equal to the 0.68 times the total .",
    "an example for this is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:1.4 ] .",
    "in the application of the above summarized procedure , using a large number of stars for each field is needed in order to both reduce the statistical uncertainty of the colour measurement and to minimize the contamination from stars of different spectral types . however , increasing the number of stars also means increasing the area of the line of sight to be considered , which reduces the resolution of the reddening since the method only provides the mean in a given field of view .",
    "therefore , we need to maximize the resolution while keeping the number of stars at a minimum . in order to ensure that there are no significant variations in the reddening curve through the line of sight",
    ", we obtained reddening - distance relations using fields with varying sizes towards each nova .",
    "an example case is shown for wy sge in fig .",
    "[ fig : wysge ] where reddening - distance relations are obtained using four different radii of 0.3 , 0.4 , 0.5 and 0.8 deg . the resulting relations imply that there is no strong variation of reddening in those areas centred on wy sge .        using the method detailed in section [ methodsec ]",
    ", we attempted to measure the distances of 152 galactic novae in our initial catalogue , which have independent reddening measurements .",
    "the reddening - distance relations produced from the rc stars are also useful to analyse the different galactic components present in the line of sight since the shape of the extinction curve will be directly related to these components .    the bulk of absorbing interstellar matter is concentrated along the galactic plane at low galactic latitudes , while for higher latitudes the slope of the reddening curve is shallower since the dust density decreases rapidly .",
    "qv  vul or lw  ser ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a1 ] ) at latitudes higher than @xmath73 is clear examples of the latter as the majority of the dust is concentrated in the first 1 - 2  kpc in the thin disc component .",
    "further away from the plane , there is no additional extinction , and the reddening - distance relation becomes more or less flat . on the other hand , for pure disc fields , for example in the case of v1500  cyg ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a1 ] ) , the extinction increases steadily along the line of sight up to the detection limit or the end of the disc whichever comes first is reached .",
    "directions where other galactic components apart from the disc are present , are clearly identifiable from the results presented here . in this regard ,",
    "the amount of dust concentrated in the spiral arms translates in sharp increases in reddening as a function of distance once the location of an arm is crossed .",
    "this can be seen in the cases of lv  vul ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a1 ] ) and wy  sge ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a3 ] ) thanks to their relationships with the sagittarius arm .",
    "the dust associated with the arm produces an extra extinction , which increases by 0.5@xmath740.6  mag in a few parsecs as the arm is crossed ( at a distance of around 4  kpc along the line of sight ) and produces a recognizable feature in the plots .",
    "when moving to the inner galaxy , the bulge component is the most prominent feature , and it dominates the reddening - distance plots producing a steady increase in extinction up to the distance where the bulge is reached ( as it is shown for example in the case of v4643 sgr and v732 sgr in fig .",
    "[ fig : a3 ] ) .    the uncertainties in the distances of novae found from the rc stars depend on how the interstellar reddening increases with distance in combination with the uncertainties associated with the independent reddening measurements . for directions where the interstellar medium is relatively sparse and",
    "therefore the distance - reddening relation is not steep enough , the method outlined here is not effective .",
    "also for the novae , for which the reddening measurements already have very large uncertainties , a reliable distance determination is not possible ( fig .",
    "[ fig:1.5]d ) .",
    "for these reasons , we could not estimate the distances of 33 objects in our catalogue .",
    "these novae are listed in appendix [ notcalc ] with a brief information on why their distances could not be calculated . within the remaining sample ,",
    "we have seen three different possibilities .",
    "the first one is the case where we were able to obtain a reliable distance ( fig . [",
    "fig:1.5]a ) .",
    "in such cases , the distances were accurately calculated assuming that the independent reddening reflects the correct amount of the interstellar matter .",
    "the second case occurred when the reddening estimate of the nova corresponds to the first or the last point in the reddening - distance relation ( fig .",
    "[ fig:1.5]b ) . in these cases",
    ", we utilized three dimensional extinction model derived by @xcite , and also the galaxia code as an independent check .",
    "we concluded that the distance is reliable if our reddening evolution shows the same trend with drimmel s map and/or galaxia .",
    "otherwise , the distance calculated from the first points in the reddening - distance relation will remain uncertain , and only an upper limit of the distance can be given .",
    "the worst scenario is the final case when the reddening estimate of a nova exceeds the lower / upper limit of the corresponding reddening curve .",
    "an example for such a case is given in fig .",
    "[ fig:1.5](c ) .",
    "in such cases , it is impossible to predict how the trend in the reddening - distance curve proceeds , so we are only able to give a lower or an upper limit for the distance of the nova based on the first or the last point in reddening - distance relations . taking into account all these cases",
    ", we were able to constrain the distances of 119 galactic novae .",
    "their derived reddening - distance relations are given in appendix [ appbsec ] .",
    "we compared the distances of 18 galactic novae estimated in this study with those estimated using the expansion parallax method ( see appendix a ) and listed them in table [ table : exp ] .",
    "although some problems exist in the determination of expansion parallaxes , it is the probably the most reliable method after the trigonometric parallax method . from the comparison ( fig .",
    "[ fig:1.6 ] ) , we calculated the median of the differences between our distance estimates and expansion parallaxes to be @xmath75  kpc with a standard deviation of @xmath76  kpc .",
    "these results are consistent with the median error of the calculated distances , 0.5  kpc .",
    "in addition , calculated distances are in good agreement with the expansion parallaxes except lv vul , lw ser , and qv vul .",
    "therefore , we conclude that our results are in good agreement with those obtained from the expansion parallax method , and the method described in this study can be used to any object as long as a reliable and independent reddening estimate exists .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ , < \" , ]",
    "in this section , the reddening - distance relations , from which the distances of novae are estimated in this study , are given ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> utilizing the unique location of red clump giants on colour - magnitude diagrams obtained from various near - infrared surveys , we derived specific reddening - distance relations towards 119 galactic novae for which independent reddening measurements are available . using the derived distance - extinction relation and the independent measurements of reddening we calculated the most likely distances for each system . </S>",
    "<S> we present the details of our distance measurement technique and the results of this analysis , which yielded the distances of 73 galactic novae and allowed us to set lower limits on the distances of 46 systems . </S>",
    "<S> we also present the reddening - distance relations derived for each nova , which may be useful to analyse the different galactic components present in the line of sight .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    star : distances  novae , cataclysmic variables </S>"
  ]
}