{
  "article_text": [
    "the number of known and candidate extrasolar planets continues to grow . as of 11",
    "may 2016 there are @xmath2 confirmed planets and @xmath3 planet candidates .",
    "the vast majority of these known and candidate planets have been discovered around middle - aged main sequence stars , and many of these discoveries have challenged our understanding of planet formation , starting with the discovery of the first extrasolar planet orbiting a sun - like star ( 51 peg b ; * ? ? ? * ) , the first of the class of  hot jupiters . \"",
    "the wide variety of extrasolar planetary systems now known has led to increased interest and debate over the processes that lead to planet formation . the core nucleated accretion model ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) produces jupiter mass objects slowly as they are built up as a result of collisions of dust and ice particles which stick together and gradually form larger and larger bodies until sufficient mass is obtained in order to gravitationally accrete large amounts of gas from the disk . the competing gravitational instability model ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) posits circumstellar disks which are massive enough to fragment as a result of their own gravity and form jupiter mass planets on a much more rapid timescale than is typical in conventional core accretion models .",
    "both models of planet formation find support and difficulties with current observations .",
    "for example , the planet metallicity correlation @xcite is often quoted as evidence in support of the core accretion model . on the other hand , the direct imaging discovery of massive planets on wide orbits ( e.g. hr8799b , c , & d , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) has been taken as evidence that gravitational instabilities must be important for forming at least some planets that can not be easily explained by the core accretion scenario @xcite .",
    "a chief limitation for the core accretion model is the timescale involved relative to the lifetime of circumstellar accretion disks .",
    "neither the core accretion model nor the gravitational instability model originally predicted the existence of hot jupiters , leading to the need for a mechanism such as migration to move massive planets from their distant formation sites to final positions in close to the star ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) . as a result , there is a significant need to establish the timescale of planet formation and planet migration .",
    "the candidate young hot jupiter studied here could potentially set important constraints on our understanding of these processes .    a desirable way to study the planet formation process , its timescale , and the role of migration and other phenomena , is to search for planets around young stars that are in the process of forming their planetary systems . detecting this youngest generation ( @xmath4 few myr old ) of planets",
    "presents special challenges .",
    "the youngest stars , many still surrounded by the circumstellar material from which planets are presumed to be actively forming , are mostly located in regions at distances of @xmath5100  pc .",
    "thus , these targets are inherently faint and are further obscured and reddened by material local to the star forming region .",
    "young pre - main sequence stars have very strong magnetic fields ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and possess large star spots ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this makes detection of extrasolar planets through radial velocity ( rv ) monitoring difficult because star spots can introduce periodic rv signals that mimic those produced by planetary companions ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ". nevertheless , several radial velocity searches for planetary mass companions have been or are currently being conducted around low mass , relatively young stars , including pre - main sequence stars @xcite . to date , these studies have yielded one planet around the 100  myr old g1@xmath6g1.5  v star hd  70573 @xcite . a planet has also been claimed around the 10  myr old classical t tauri star ( cttss ) tw hya ; however , additional study of this object suggests the rv signal from the putative planet is actually caused by spot induced radial velocity jitter @xcite . significant spot",
    "induced periodic rv variability has been detected in a few additional young stars @xcite , highlighting the challenges of this technique when applied to young stars .",
    "potential planetary mass objects have recently been found around young stars through direct imaging studies @xcite .",
    "these objects are typically at orbital separations of @xmath7 au with estimated masses of several m@xmath8 .",
    "these objects also challenge our models of planet formation , particularly the core accretion model , as the timescale to form planets at such large distances in a disk is expected to be about an order of magnitude greater than the estimated age of these objects @xcite .",
    "the mass estimates for these objects come from comparing their estimated luminosity and temperature with theoretical evolutionary models .",
    "the theoretical models are uncertain at these young ages and the observations required to pin down the luminosity and temperature have a number of challenges , resulting in considerable uncertainty in the final mass estimate for a given object . as an example , the companion to gq lup discovered by @xcite has mass estimates that range from 1 m@xmath8 on the low side to @xmath9 m@xmath8 on the high side ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "as we attempt to advance our observational and theoretical understanding of planet and brown dwarf formation , it will be important to obtain strong limits on the mass of potential companions to young stars .",
    "such strong mass constraints are the forte of rv measurements of extrasolar planets , particularly for those with independent constraints on the orbital inclination .",
    "transiting extrasolar planets offer several advantages for the study of sub - stellar mass companions to stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "of primary advantage is that the inclination is well characterized allowing for a more certain mass determination .",
    "additionally , the radius and hence density of the planet can be determined , and numerous additional follow up observations are possible , at least in principle .",
    "several transit searches for extrasolar planets around young stars have now been performed @xcite .",
    "very recently , a candidate transiting extrsolar planet candidate has been reported around a low mass young ( @xmath10 myr ) star ( ptfo8 - 8695 ) in the orion ob1a/25-ori region @xcite .",
    "this discovery paper suggests a planet with a mass @xmath11 m@xmath8 and a radius of @xmath12 r@xmath8 in a 0.45 day orbit around a @xmath13 m@xmath14 m3 @xcite weak - lined ( non accreting ) t tauri star ( wtts ) .",
    "the discovery observations noted unusual changes in the transit light curve from one observing season to the next , which @xcite argue could be the result of mutual precession of the stellar rotation axis and the planet s orbital axis resulting from tidal interaction of the planet with an oblate star .",
    "the analysis of barnes et al . suggests a likely planet mass of 3.0 or 3.6 m@xmath8 and radius of 1.64 or 1.68 r@xmath8 depending on the assumed mass of the star .",
    "follow - up transit and stellar rv observations by @xcite lend support to this hypothesis .    here",
    ", we report on high spectral resolution optical observations of ptfo8 - 8695 densely sampled over a few orbital periods .",
    "we clearly detect excess h@xmath0 _ emission _ that moves in radial velocity as predicted by the expected orbit of the companion , providing further evidence for the existence the planet .",
    "the h@xmath0 luminosity associated with the planet is almost equal to that coming from the star , indicating that the h@xmath0 emission volume is substantially larger than the planet itself .",
    "the most likely explanation is that the planet is losing mass at a subtantial rate , though at this time we are not able to fully rule out a small amount of accretion related emission from a very low mass disk that may remain around this young star . in ",
    "2 we describe the observations of this system , in  3 present our analysis of the data , and in  4 provide a discussion of these results , which are summarized in  5 .",
    "included in the discovery paper of @xcite is a set of high resolution echelle spectra of ptfo8 - 8695 taken at the hobby ",
    "eberly telescope ( het * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and at the keck i telescope .",
    "at the het the high resolution spectrograph ( hrs * ? ? ?",
    "* ) was employed , while the high resolution echelle spectrometer ( hires * ? ? ?",
    "* ) was used at keck .",
    "the details of the observations and data reduction procedures can be found in @xcite .",
    "the spectral resolution of these observations is @xmath15 at the het and @xmath16 at keck .",
    "these data were used by @xcite to study the radial velocity variability of ptfo8 - 8695 . here , we use these observations to investigate the variability of the h@xmath0 emission line",
    ".      observations of ptfo8 - 8695 were taken at the mcdonald obervatory 2.7  meter harlan j. smith telescope with the robert g. tull coud echelle spectrograph @xcite on ut 15 november 2013 .",
    "a 1.2@xmath17 slit was used with the e2 grating to give a spectral resolution of r@xmath461,400 ( with @xmath18 pixels per resolution element ) for all observations .",
    "approximately 50 orders with @xmath4100    per order were dispersed across the 2080@xmath192048 tektronix ccd , covering the wavelength region @xmath20   .",
    "integration times for all ptfo8 - 8695 observations at mcdonald observatory were 2400  s , and the seeing was @xmath42@xmath17 on average . because of the faintness of the target ( @xmath21 , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the signal to noise ratio obtained is quite low .",
    "nevertheless , significant information can be extracted from the h@xmath0 emission line of this star .",
    "table 1 gives a full log of the ptfo8 - 8695 observations obtained on 15 november 2013 .",
    "we also use a spectrum of the dm3e flare star ad leo as an example of the h@xmath0 profile shape of a chromospherically active m star of the same spectral type with strong emission lines .",
    "this spectrum was obtained with the same telescope and instrument , but on ut 8 november 1995 . for this observation ,",
    "the ccd was placed at the f1 focus ( as opposed to the f3 focus for ptfo8 - 8695 ) .",
    "a 0.59@xmath17 slit was used to observe ad leo , yielding a spectral resolution @xmath22 spread accross @xmath23 pixels .",
    "the same ccd was used , resulting in only 19 partial ( @xmath24  ) orders , including the one containing the h@xmath0 line , being recorded .",
    "observations of ptfo8 - 8695 were also taken at the kitt peak national obervatory 4  meter mayall telescope with the echelle spectrograph on the nights of ut @xmath25 december 2012 .",
    "a 1.5@xmath17 slit was used with the @xmath26 grating to give a spectral resolution of r@xmath425,500 ( with @xmath27 pixels per resoultion element ) for all observations .",
    "the slit length projected to 9.73@xmath17 on the sky .",
    "approximately 21 orders with @xmath4150    per order were dispersed across the 2080@xmath192048 tektronix ccd which was binned by a factor of 2 in the cross - dispersion direction resulting in 2080@xmath191024 images . the observed spectra covered the wavelength range @xmath28   .",
    "integration times for the mayall observations of ptfo8 - 8695 observations ranged from 600 to 1200 seconds and were typically taken in groups of three exposures with a thorium - argon lamp exposures taken at the begining of each group .",
    "the seeing varied during the run but was typically @xmath42@xmath17 .",
    "again , the signal to noise ratio obtained is relatively low .",
    "a full log of the ptfo8 - 8695 observations made at kitt peak is given in table 2 .",
    "all spectra were reduced with custom idl echelle reduction routines which have been broadly described by valenti ( 1994 ) and hinkle et al .",
    "the reduction procedure is quite standard and includes bias subtraction , flat fielding by a normalized flat spectrum , scattered light subtraction , and optimal extraction of the spectrum .",
    "the blaze function of the echelle spectrometer is removed to first order by dividing the extracted stellar spectra by an extracted spectrum of the flat lamp .",
    "final continuum normalization was accomplished by fitting a low order polynomial to the blaze corrected spectra in the regions around the lines of interest for this study . for the mayall spectra",
    ", there was room on the ccd where sky spectra are recorded above and below the stellar spectrum .",
    "a sky spectrum was extracted @xmath29 above or below ( depending on how well centered the star was ) the stellar spectrum .",
    "the resulting sky spectrum was scaled to match the sky lines away from h@xmath0 and was then subtracted from the object spectrum .",
    "as shown below , the features of interest for this study are much broader than sky lines , so failure to subtract sky from the mcdonald observations should not have any significant impact on the final results .",
    "the wavelength solution for the mcdonald data was determined by fitting a two - dimensional polynomial to @xmath30 as function of pixel and order number , @xmath31 , for approximately 1800 ( for the f3 focus ) or 100 ( for the f1 focus ) extracted thorium lines observed from an internal lamp assembly .",
    "the wavelength solution for the kitt peak data was determined for the h@xmath0 order only and utilized a 3rd order polynomial fit to 13 extracted thorium lines in this order .",
    "figure 1 shows the 4 h@xmath0 profiles collected at the het and the 5 h@xmath0 profiles collected at keck .",
    "each profile is labelled by the relative phase of the suspected planet ( phase of zero is mid - transit ) , and time runs down in the figure .",
    "these profiles were collected over 2 months in early 2011 .",
    "only one profile was collected on any given night , so at least 2 orbital cycles occur between any two of the observed profiles . to aid in keeping track of the time elapsed between these observations , the phases include non - zero values for the integer part of the phase which represents how",
    "may orbits have occured since the first of these exposures .",
    "many of the profiles in figure 1 show an essentially symmetric emission profile about line center with a narrow core on top of a broader emission base , similar to that seen in rapidly rotating , chromospherically active dme stars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "other profiles show significantly red- or blue - shifted emission in addition to this centered apparent chromospheric emission . there is not an obvious relationship between the location of this excess emission and the predicted velocity position ( shown as the red vertical line ) of the candidate planetary companion .",
    "overall , figure 1 shows that there is substantial h@xmath0 line profile variability ; however , given the generally large time delay in orbital cycles from one observation to the next , it is difficult to understand the source of this variability without the inclusion of datasets with more dense temporal sampling .",
    "figure 2 shows all the observed profiles of ptfo8 - 8695 obtained on 15 november 2013 at mcdonald observatory .",
    "each profile is identified with the ut time of the midpoint of the exposure .",
    "also shown is the velocity position expected for the planetary companion based on the ephemeris published in @xcite .",
    "there is clear h@xmath0 emission in the profile that appears to be moving in velocity space with the expected position of the planet .",
    "in addition , there is strong , centrally peaked h@xmath0 emission .",
    "ptfo8 - 8695 is a wtts @xcite and as such its h@xmath0 emission is expected to be chromospheric in origin , that is , it is believed to be produced by the magnetic activity of the star itself @xcite . in order to estimate the stellar contribution to the observed line profiles we used two different observed profiles from figure 2 . in the profile taken at ut 5:43",
    ", the planetary emission appears to be confined to the red side of the line profile .",
    "the profile taken at ut 10:32 is the one in which the planet is expected to be the most blue - shifted , and the excess emission appears to be confined to the blue side of the line profile .",
    "the red side of the line profile in both the ut 10:32 and ut 11:17 are nearly identical , further indicating the potential planetary emission is confined to the blue side of the profile . therefore , to estimate the stellar chromospheric component of the line , we take the blue side of the ut 5:43 profile and combine it with the red side of the ut 10:32 profile to get the final profile shown in figure 3 .",
    "we measured the h@xmath0 equivalent width of this stellar emission , finding a value of @xmath32  .",
    "also shown in figure 3 is the line profile of ad leo , a dm3e flare star rotationally broadened to the same @xmath33sin@xmath34 ( 80.6 km s@xmath35 * ? ? ?",
    "* ) observed in ptfo8 - 8695 .",
    "@xcite predict that the apparent @xmath33sin@xmath34 of ptfo8 - 8695 will change by @xmath36% as the result of precession of the stellar rotation axis .",
    "this effects was looked for by yu et al .",
    "( 2015 ) and was not seen , though they only had two observing epochs .",
    "the exact value we use for @xmath33sin@xmath34 may be slightly off ; however , we see no evidence that this is the case .",
    "the width of the rotationally broadened ad leo spectrum is similar to the reconstructed  chromospheric \" profile of ptfo8 - 8695 , but is weaker . multipling the ad leo emission component by a factor of 2.4 leads to the smooth solid profile in figure 3 which provides a reasonably good match to the ptfo8 - 8695 profile , suggesting that the profile presented in figure 3 is a good representation of the stellar component of the line profile .",
    "figure 4 shows each of the observed profiles from figure 2 with the stellar profile from figure 3 ( the histogram ) subtracted off .",
    "the leftover emission from this subtraction process could be entirely due to the planetary companion .",
    "examining figure 4 shows that the centroid of this emission tracks very well the predicted velocity position of the planet .",
    "however , there is a slight hint that the h@xmath0 emission is not quite at the predicted velocity from the ephemeris . in order to characterize this apparent planetary emission",
    ", we measure the h@xmath0 equivalent width of each profile in figure 4 , as well as the velocity centroid of the emission and the velocity width of each profile .",
    "all these values are reported in table 1 . for the velocity centroid",
    "we compute the flux ( above the continuum ) weighted mean velocity from the data .",
    "for the line width , @xmath37 , we use a measure of dispersion given by @xmath38 where @xmath33 is the velocity of each channel in the continuum normalized spectrum difference spectrum @xmath39 from figure 4 , and @xmath40 is the previously determined velocity centroid .",
    "this measure of line width has the advantage of being purely emipirical and does not rely on fitting any particular functional form to the data . in the case of a gaussian profile , this @xmath37 is equal to @xmath41 in the standard gaussian formula .",
    "there is some indication that the dispersions of the measured profiles are somewhat larger for the times when the planetary velocity position is changing the most rapidly .",
    "this may indicate that there is some smearing of the profile from the relatively long exposure times compared to the expected orbital period .      the first two nights ( 8 - 9 december 2012 ) of the kitt peak observations of ptfo8 - 8695 are shown in figures 5 and 6 . in the figures ,",
    "the individual profiles are shown in the black histograms , and the average nightly profile is overplotted in red on each of the individual profiles .",
    "in contrast to the mcdonald observations shown in figure 2 , there is no clear excess emission observed at the predicted velocity position of the planetary companion to the star .",
    "some weak variation in the h@xmath0 line is observed on both nights ; however , the velocity positions of these changes appear well within the range expected for the stellar chromospheric emission .",
    "these variations are likely caused by spatially localized chromospheric emission features on the surface of this magetically active wtts , and are probably unrelated to the potential planetary companion .",
    "the h@xmath0 emission on these two nights , presumably stellar in origin , is somewhat weaker than seen in the mcdonald data : the emission equivalent widths are @xmath42   and @xmath43   on 8 and 9 december 2012 respectively . since no excess h@xmath0 emission",
    "is clearly detected on these nights , we do not attempt to measure any quantities related to this and so no data is reported for the excess equivalent width , velocity centroid , or line width in table 2 .",
    "on the third night of the kitt peak run , the behavior of the h@xmath0 line in ptfo8 - 8695 became much more active , showing similar behavior to that seen in the mcdonald data .",
    "the h@xmath0 profiles from this night ( 10 december 2012 ) are shown in figure 7 , where starting with the fourth exposure ( ut 5:53 ) obvious excess emission was detected in the h@xmath0 line that again appears to move with the velocity of the planetary companion predicted by @xcite .",
    "we estimate the stellar chromospheric emission using the profile obtained at ut 7:34 on this night when the planet is predicted to be most red - shifted . to minimize the effects of potential stellar h@xmath0 fluctuations such as those seen in figures 5 and 6",
    ", we use this profile to estimate the stellar component of the line since it is close in time to the profiles showing the excess emission . the ut 7:34 profile is reflected about zero velocity to create an estimate of the stellar chromospheric profile .",
    "this estimated chromospheric profile has an equivalent width of @xmath44  .    in an effort to isolate the non - stellar excess emission",
    ", we subtract the estimated chromospheric from all the spectra observed on night 3 , and the resulting profiles are shown in figure 8 .",
    "we then performed the same measurements of excess emission equivalent width , velocity centroid , and line width as described above for the mcdonald data .",
    "these values are given in table 2 .",
    "for the first 2 observations on this night , we do not report the excess emission velocity centroid or line width .",
    "both of these quantities are computed by effectively dividing by the excess equivalent width . because the excess emission is very weak and",
    "not securely detected in these first two observations , the values and uncertainties in the velocity centroid and line width become extremely large and provide no constraints on any of the analysis .      as mentioned in  3.1 ,",
    "the het and keck data collected in 2011 do not show any obvious relation to the predicted velocity position of the planet .",
    "this can be made more clear by attempting a stellar subtraction similar to that done to produce figures 4 and 8 .",
    "for these figures , we were able to use profiles from the same night to represent the stellar component , but in the case of the het and keck data there is only one observation per night and there is substantial variation from one observation to the next .",
    "since the profiles on the first two kitt peak nights show no apparent excess emission , we take the average of these 21 spectra to represent the stellar emission .",
    "this stellar component appears to vary in strength between the mcdonald and kitt peak observations , and examinations of the profiles in figure 1 suggest it does here as well .",
    "therefore , we scaled this stellar component so that it matched the observed profiles in figure 1 as best it could , but such that the stellar profile was never above the observed profile .",
    "the implicit assumption is that the observed profile is composed of a stellar ( including a chromosphere ) component plus potentially an excess emission component on top of this .",
    "once we subtract the scaled stellar profiles , only the excess emission is observed and these profiles are shown in figure 9 . while some profiles appear to subtract nearly to zero ( e.g. phase 127.792 ) , there is substantial excess emission in many of them . as mentioned above , in some cases",
    "the excess emission component is close in velocity position to the predicted velocity of the planet , while in other cases it is far away and shows no obvious connection to the suspected planet .",
    "however , given that substantial time elapsed between each of the spectra shown in figure 9 ( and 1 ) , we can not be certain how these profiles evolved .",
    "below , in  4.3.4 , we offer an interpretation that attempts to account for all the observed profile shapes from this star .",
    "the observations of the radial velocity variations of the excess h@xmath0 emission recorded at mcdonald observatory and at kitt peak , densely sampled in time , lend themselves to an exploration of possible orbital motion .",
    "figure 10 shows the measured velocity centroids of the excess h@xmath0 emission against orbital phase based on the ephemeris in @xcite . while @xcite revise the ephemeris of ptfo8 - 8695 , they do not provide a unique solution",
    "; the results depend on the assumed stellar mass .",
    "however , the ephemerides of barnes et al .",
    "result in a maximum phase offset of 0.026 for the data presented here , which is likely negligible compared to other uncertainties in the measurements and analysis discussed below .",
    "therefore , we use the ephemeris of @xcite throughout and plot ( dashed line ) the predicted velocity curve of the planet in figure 10 using their orbital parameters , which assume a circular orbit .",
    "the value of @xmath45 for this velocity curve is 607 , and the reduce @xmath45 value is @xmath46 .",
    "the measured velocity variations generally track the expected orbital motion of the planet , with the mcdonald observations somewhat closer to the predicted curve than those from kitt peak .",
    "we discuss below the possibility that the excess h@xmath0 emission includes components not purely in orbit with the planet which might lead to this difference ; however , for completeness , we proceed here assuming these velocity variations are the result of orbital motion .",
    "the radial velocity observations presented in figure 10 were obtained in 2012 and 2013 , while the ephemeris in @xcite is based on transit data taken in 2009 and 2010 , so there is some uncertainty in the predicted phasing of the radial velocity observations presented here .",
    "@xcite analyze additional transit data for ptfo8 - 8695 including photometry from the _ spitzer _ satellite .",
    "the transits recovered in @xcite were offset from the predicted times using the discovery ephemeris , but were all within the original ephemeris uncertainty from @xcite .",
    "we can use the offset to the observed _ spitzer _ transit ( data obtained in april 2012 ) as an estimate of the uncertainty in the ephemeris when comparing the predicted phases of the radial velocity observations in figure 10 .",
    "the dash - dot curve in this plot shows the predicted radial velocity curve of the planet using the orbit determined in @xcite , shifted to match the transit midpoint observed by _ spitzer _ in 2012",
    "the shift is only 0.026 in phase .",
    "this emphemeris fits the h@xmath0 rv variations more poorly , giving @xmath47 and @xmath48 .",
    "this may indicate a problem with the _ spitzer _ transit time determination or , as discussed in  4 , may be be due to the h@xmath0 emitting gas not strictly moving with the candidate planet around this star .    assuming that the excess h@xmath0 rv variations shown in figure 10 result from the orbital motion of the planet around ptfo8 - 8695 , we fit a sine wave ( circular orbit ) to the rv points ( solid line in the figure ; @xmath49 and @xmath46 ) , obtaining a velocity semi - amplitude of @xmath50 km s@xmath35 .",
    "clearly , the pure sine wave fit and predicted sine curves ( dashed and dash - dot lines ) of figure 10 are not good fits to all the observed rv variations of the excess h@xmath0 emission , though they do a fairly good job of fitting the data from mcdonald observatory in 2013 .",
    "we can obtain a better fit using a full keplerian curve , allowing the orbit to be eccentric .",
    "this fit is shown in the dotted line of figure 10 ( @xmath51 and @xmath52 ) .",
    "in addition to fitting the rv points , we used the transit time as an additionl constraint . to do so",
    ", we assume the transit midpoint of @xcite as the observed transit time and assign an uncertainty equal to the phase offset between this original transit time and that determined from the _ spitzer _ observations of @xcite .",
    "the resulting velocity semi - amplitude is @xmath53 km s@xmath35 with an eccentricity of @xmath54 .",
    "while such a large eccentricity brings the putative planet closer to the star , the planet is still outside the star at periastron for the largest stellar radius ( 1.07 r@xmath14 ) found by either @xcite or @xcite , though nominally the surface of the planet would pass within one planetary radius of the stellar surface .",
    "we suggest below that there may be significant non - orbital contribution to the excess h@xmath0 rv variations , so a full orbital analysis is likely not warranted . as a result",
    "we do not report other parameters of the orbital fit .",
    "we note that using equation ( 18 ) of @xcite that the planet s orbit should be circularized in @xmath55 yrs depending on the exact value of the planetary quality factor @xmath56 , so we do not expect an eccentric orbit for the suspected planet , unless that eccentricity is being excited by a third body in the system .",
    "below we argue that the excess h@xmath0 emission observed in the kitt peak spectra may be particularly affected by non - orbital motion , so we perform a full keplerian fit to the mcdonald rvs only , again using the transit time as a constraint .",
    "this fit is shown in the dash - triple dot line in figure 10 and gives @xmath57 km s@xmath35 with an eccentricity of @xmath58 .",
    "the total @xmath59 which is substantially improved , while @xmath60 which is also an improvement , but only modestly so due to the small number of degrees of freedom given only 6 rv data points to which the orbit is fit .",
    "we have detected variable h@xmath0 emission from the young transiting planet candidate ptfo8 - 8695 .",
    "this object sometimes shows a component of h@xmath0 emission that appears to be in excess to the stellar chromospheric emission . at times",
    ", the excess h@xmath0 appears at a random phase relative to the expected velocity position of the claimed planetary companion ( figure 1 and 9 ) .",
    "however , at other times the excess h@xmath0 emission appears to move in wavelength as would be expected if it were produced by the suspected planetary companion .",
    "this raises the intriguing possibility that the excess h@xmath0 emission is associated with the planetary companion . in general",
    "though , there are at least three potential sources of this variable h@xmath0 emission that should be considered .",
    "the emission could be associated with 1 . )",
    "the star itself , 2 . )",
    "accretion flows from a tenuous disk , or 3 . )",
    "it could be directly related to a low mass companion .",
    "ptfo8 - 8695 is a young t tauri star , and as such is expected to be very magnetically active .",
    "such stars produce variable chromospheric h@xmath0 emission ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "if all of the observed h@xmath0 emission is taken to be from the star , then the measured emission equivalent width when it is active would be @xmath61  .",
    "this would give ptfo8 - 8695 a log(@xmath62 ) = -2.92 which would make it stronger than every other magnetically active m star in the sample of @xcite . additionally , the rotationally broadened and enhanced chromospheric profile of the dme flare star ad leo matches well the core of the h@xmath0 line from ptfo8 - 8695 ( figure 3 ) . while there is clearly some variability in this core as seen in figures 5 and 6 , the strong , highly doppler shifted excess h@xmath0 emission seen in figures 2 and 7",
    "can not be explained by chromospheric emission on the surface of the star .",
    "however , there is a potential that a stellar flare could produce such doppler shifted emission , at least in principle .",
    "stellar flares in dme stars often produce significant , nearly symmetric line broadening at the base of h@xmath0 .",
    "the resulting line profile routinely shows the standard narrow chromospheric emission on top of a very broad ( fwhm of a few hundred km s@xmath35 ) base of emission ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) reminisent of some of the weaker line profiles shown in figure 1 ( e.g. at phases 4.918 , 7.127 , 22.699 , & 127.174 ) .",
    "it is very rare in a flare to see dramatically asymmetric emission with a highly red- or blue - shifted component nearly equal in strength to the central chromospheric emission as seen in the profiles of figures 2 and 7 .",
    "t tauri stars in general are known to flare ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a potentially better analog of the type of variable h@xmath0 emission expected from chromospheric emission and flaring on ptfo8 - 8695 is the wtts v410 tau , with a @xmath33sin@xmath34 = 77.7 km s@xmath35 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) compared to the measured @xmath33sin@xmath34 = @xmath63 km s@xmath35 for ptfo8 - 8695 @xcite .",
    "the h@xmath0 emission equivalent width ( @xmath64   with a typical value @xmath65  ) on v410 tau ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is weaker than seen on ptfo8 - 8695 , though v410 tau has an earlier spectral type which raises the continuum level without necessarily affecting the strength of the chromospheric emission .",
    "v410 tau has been observed to flare in a number of studies . outside of flares ,",
    "the h@xmath0 line of v410 tau is fairly symmetric , relatively narrow , and is similar in shape to the chromospheric h@xmath0 profiles for ptfo8 - 8695 seen in figures 3 , 5 , and 6 @xcite .",
    "the h@xmath0 line of v410 tau can grow much stronger and broader during a flare , and also show asymmetries ; however , the observed asymmetries seen during flares do not show excess emission with apparent peaks shifted out to greater than @xmath66 km s@xmath35 @xcite as seen here in ptfo8 - 8695 .",
    "the typical pattern in a flare is for the line to very rapidly ( times scale of a few minutes ) strengthen and broaden with only a slight asymmetry developing .",
    "the strength and width of the line then decay exponentially with a time scale of @xmath67 hour for strong flares ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this is not the temporal behaviour observed in ptf08 - 8695 .",
    "there is at least one additional piece of evidence against the flaring interpretation for the excess h@xmath0 emission seen in ptfo8 - 8695 .",
    "whenever v410 tau shows flare emission in h@xmath0 , significant 5876   emission also appears .",
    "this line is covered in the echelle formats of both our mcdonald and kitt peak data .",
    "we have searched both datasets for evidence of this emission , including co - adding the spectra when the h@xmath0 emission appears stationary ( ut 9:44 to 11:17 for mcdonald ; ut 6:45 to 8:25 for kitt peak ) to increase the signal to noise .",
    "no evidence of emission is seen .",
    "lastly , if the observed excess h@xmath0 emission seen in figures 2 and 7 were the result of a stellar flare , it would be a remarkable coincidence that the flare induced asymmetry just happened to appear at and move with the same velocity position in the line profile as that expected for the planetary companion .",
    "in particular , the motion shown in figures 2 and 4 where the excess emission first appears strongly on one side of the line profile and then moves to the other side has not to our knowledge been observed in the h@xmath0 emission of flare stars .",
    "flares have been observed on ptfo8 - 8695 @xcite , and while flares on this star likely will produce changes in the strength and shape of the h@xmath0 emission line , we believe all the points described above argue strongly against a purely stellar origin .",
    "another possibility is that the h@xmath0 emission arises from material accreting onto the * star * from a tenuous disk that may still surround ptfo8 - 8695 .",
    "while this star is classified as a wtts , it is at the boundary between wttss and accreting cttss @xcite , although no dust is evident in its infrared spectral energy distribution , including _",
    "data out to 24 @xmath68 m @xcite .",
    "if we take the average excess h@xmath0 equivalent width and estimate an accretion rate using the empirical calibrations in @xcite , we find a value of @xmath69 m@xmath14 yr@xmath35 which is relatively low compared to the full sample in fang et al .",
    "if there is weak accretion from a tenuous disk , it is probable that such a disk would be detected in infrared emission as even very tenuous disks which feed very low accretion rates on the order of 10@xmath70 m@xmath14 yr@xmath35 produce a detectable near - ir excess @xcite .",
    "this accretion rate is significantly less than the value estimated above , suggesting that if the h@xmath0 emission was resulted from disk accretion , ptfo8 - 8695 should show an ir excess unless there has been substantial grain growth around this 2 - 3 myr old star which has removed essentially all the small grains .",
    "if ptfo8 - 8695 is accreting material onto the star from a gas disk devoid of small grains , the excess h@xmath0 emission may result entirely from the accreting material whether or not there is a planetary companion present .",
    "this accretion related emission would presumably be similar to h@xmath0 emission seen in other cttss , many of which also have close companions . if there is a low mass companion to ptfo8 - 8695 , accretion from a disk may be through accretion streams such as those proposed by @xcite ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . at this time",
    ", it is not known if a planetary mass companion can excite accretion streams such as those modeled by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "a few cttss binaries are thought to potentially be accreting through accretion streams .",
    "these include dq tau @xcite , uz tau e @xcite , ak sco @xcite , kh 15d @xcite , and the eclipsing binary system corot 223992193 in ngc 2264 @xcite .",
    "none of these stars shows the type of h@xmath0 variations seen in ptfo8 - 8695 where the accretion related emission appears to move from one side of the line profile to the other as it spirals onto one or both of the stars .",
    "this type of line profile behavior is also not seen in the h@xmath0 profile variations of single cttss in extensive studies of their line profile variability ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , nor is it predicted from theoretical models of magnetospheric accretion such as those shown in @xcite . while we can not completely rule out accretion from a tenuous disk as the source of the excess h@xmath0 emission observed in ptfo8 - 8695 , we argue that this is not the most likely explanation of the observed emission .",
    "deep mid ir or millimeter continuum observations , or a deep search for close circumstellar disk gas emission ( e.g. h@xmath71 emission , see france et al .",
    "2012 ) , could shed light on whether there is a tenuous disk around this star feeding accretion onto it .",
    "particularly given the radial velocity variations of the excess emission component of the h@xmath0 line , the most likely explanation is that this emission arises from an orbiting companion .    *",
    "*      assuming the companion hypothesis , we can use these measured rv variations with the orbital fits performed above to estimate the mass of the system .",
    "@xcite did not positively detect rv motion of ptfo8 - 8695 itself ; however , if we adopt their upper limit on the reflex motion of the star ( @xmath72 km s@xmath35 ) , we can use kepler s laws to find an upper limit for the total mass in the system of @xmath73 m@xmath14 assuming a circular orbit ( solid curve in figure 10 ) . alternatively ,",
    "if we use the full keplerian solution and again apply the upper limit on the stellar reflex motion of the star from van eyken et al .",
    "( assuming that this is the upper limit for the velocity semi - amplitude , @xmath74 ) , we obtain an upper mass limit for the system of @xmath75 m@xmath14 . finally , if we restrict ourselves to the fit to the mcdonald only data , we find an upper limit to the mass of @xmath76 m@xmath14 .",
    "we can then use these total mass estimates with the observed ratio of the companion and stellar rv amplitudes , again adopting the upper limit on the stellar rv amplitude of the star from van eyken et al .",
    ", to estimate the mass of the companion . using the parameters from the circular orbit",
    "fit gives @xmath77 m@xmath8 , while using the parameters from the full keplerian fit gives @xmath78 m@xmath8 , and the mcdonald only fit giving @xmath79 m@xmath8 , all clearly in the planetary range .",
    "@xcite determine an orbital inclination of @xmath80 which then gives a total mass for the system of @xmath81 m@xmath14 for the circular orbit , @xmath82 m@xmath14 for the eccentric orbit , and @xmath83 m@xmath14 for the mcdonald only orbital fit .",
    "the planet mass then becomes @xmath84 m@xmath8 for the circular fit , @xmath85 m@xmath8 for the eccentric fit , and @xmath86 m@xmath8 for the mcdonald only fit .",
    "again , this is an upper limit to the planet s mass given that the rv variations measured for the star are only upper limits on the reflex motion of the orbit .",
    "indeed , @xcite present new k band based rv measurements of the star , estimating a new stellar rv semi - amplitude of @xmath87 km s@xmath35 , which would lower the estimate of the planet s true mass to @xmath88 m@xmath8 .",
    "the true stellar rv variations could be even smaller which would imply a still lower planet mass , though if the planet s mass is too low its roche radius would become smaller than the planet and it should then be losing substantial mass .",
    "the estimates given above for the actual mass of the planet depend on the inclination of the planet s orbit , which is uncertain .",
    "@xcite determine an orbital inclination of @xmath80 ; however , @xcite argue that this inclination changes over time as a result of nodal precession of the orbit .",
    "they find the value of the orbital inclination can change from @xmath89 to @xmath90 with a period in the range of 300 - 500 days .",
    "thus , there is the possibility the planet s orbital inclination at the time of the observations presented here was significantly different than the @xmath91 assumed . assuming @xmath92 , the stellar mass inferred from the circular orbit fit is @xmath93 m@xmath14 .",
    "the effective temperature of ptfo8 - 8695 is 3470 k @xcite . using the pre - main sequence evolutionary tracks of @xcite ,",
    "this corresponds to a mass of @xmath94 m@xmath14 at an age of 2 myr [ the tracks of baraffe et al .",
    "( 2015 ) give a mass of @xmath95 m@xmath14 at the same temperature and age ] .",
    "thus , our measured mass is larger than the predicted masses by @xmath96 .",
    "it is well established that theoretical pre - main sequence tracks underestimate the true mass of young stars at these masses @xcite . according to these authors , pre - main sequence tracks routinely predict a mass that is 30% lower than the true mass .",
    "thus , if the true mass is 0.659 m@xmath14 , we might expect evolutionary tracks to give a mass of 0.461 m@xmath14 . with an uncertainty of 0.108 m@xmath14 , the actual predicted masses from the evolutionary tracks are 1.0  1.3 @xmath41 lower than this value .",
    "thus , while our inferred mass is higher than the predicted mass , the difference is within the expectations given the known systematic trends in the evolutionary tracks at these low masses .",
    "no matter what the true inclination is , our measured mass will be larger than the mass inferred from evolutionary tracks .",
    "for example , if the inclination is 90@xmath97 , the measured mass would be 0.451 m@xmath14 .",
    "while this is larger than the mass inferred from the tracks , it is larger by @xmath98% which is the typical difference found for young stars in this mass range .",
    "if the orbital inclination at the time of the spectroscopic observations presented here was as low as @xmath99 , this would imply true stellar mass of @xmath100 m@xmath14 , which corresponds to an effective temperature of @xmath101 k , or a spectral type between k3 and k4 , using the @xcite evolutionary tracks at 2 myr .",
    "this is very inconsistent with the observed spectral type .",
    "thus , we infer that the orbital inclination at the time of the spectroscopic observations could not be much less than @xmath91 .    * *      if the excess h@xmath0 emission does come from the planetary companion , how is it produced ?",
    "one of the most remarkable aspects of the apparent excess h@xmath0 emission is its strength .",
    "tables 1 and 2 show that , when visible , the planet s h@xmath0 equivalent width is typically 70% to 80% that from the star .",
    "because the excess equivalent width and the stellar chromospheric equivalent width are measured relative to the same stellar continuum , the h@xmath0 luminosity from the planet then reaches 80% that from the star .",
    "the 10.5   emission equivalent width from the star , while stronger than the dm3e star ad leo as shown in figure 3 , is not atypical of very magnetically active dm3 - 4e stars , several of which have h@xmath0 emission equivalent widths of 10.0   or more ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , the planet orbiting ptfo8 - 8695 is much smaller than the star - the apparent area of the planet is @xmath102% that of the star @xcite . in order to produce an h@xmath0 equivalent width that is @xmath103% that of the star ,",
    "the h@xmath0 surface flux of the planet would have to be 22 times that of the star .",
    "we do not know the effective temperature or spectral type of the young planet orbiting ptfo8 - 8695 ; however , it is likely cooler and later in type than the star .",
    "such a dramatic rise in h@xmath0 surface flux is not observed in active stars or brown dwarfs with spectral types later than m4 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "as a result , it is doubtful the emission from the planet around ptfo8 - 8695 is produced by magnetic activity .",
    "we further argue that the emission from this planet does not arise on its surface at all , but instead either in a confined region around the planet such as in the planetary magnetosphere , or in a more complicated flow with the planet feeding the material .",
    "similar gas flows have been observed in absorption ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and have been modeled by a number of investigators ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the radius of the planet is in the range of 1.64 r@xmath8 @xcite to 1.91 r@xmath8 @xcite . assuming the planet s rotation is tidally locked with its orbit ( the synchronization timescale is estimated to be @xmath104 myr using relationships given in gu et al .",
    "2003 ) , the maximum @xmath33sin@xmath34 the planet could have is 18.6  21.7 km s@xmath35 .",
    "however , the average velocity width of the excess h@xmath0 emission is @xmath105 km s@xmath35 , significantly more than can be accounted for by the rotation of the planet .",
    "instead , we suggest the most likely explanation is that the emission results from mass outflow from the planet .    * *      mass outflow from a hot jupiter was first detected by @xcite and these observations have been confirmed by several additional studies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "mass loss from hot jupiters has been studied theoretically by a number of investigators ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite noted that this planet s radius is very close to its roche lobe radius . using equation ( 1 ) of @xcite and",
    "the best fitting parameters of @xcite actually places the roche radius of the planet slightly inside the inferred radius of the planet .",
    "thus , the potential planet orbiting ptfo8 - 8695 is a prime candidate for significant mass loss . using the best fit parameters from @xcite ,",
    "the escape velocity from the planet is 82  88 km s@xmath35 which is very comparable to the velocity width of the excess h@xmath0 emission apparently associated with the planet , further suggestive that this planet may be losing considerable mass .",
    "@xcite was the first to theoretically study mass loss from a hot jupiter orbiting a young pre - main sequence star .",
    "these authors note that the very high mass loss rates from t tauri stars will likely completely stifle planetary flows on the day side of the hot jupiter as the result of the large ram pessure associated with the stellar wind",
    ". however , the large mass loss rates used by @xcite are only really appropriate for cttss which are still accreting material from a disk .",
    "stellar wind mass loss rates appropriate for a wtts such as ptfo8 - 8695 have not yet been determined .",
    "the semi - major axis of the suspected companion to ptfo8 - 8695 is less than @xmath106 @xmath107 while the star itself has a radius of @xmath67 @xmath107 @xcite .",
    "thus , the planet would be orbiting only about 1 stellar radius above the stellar surface .",
    "t tauri stars are measured to have average surface magnetic fields of 2  3 kg @xcite , so it is likely that the planet is orbiting inside the alfvn radius of the star , in which case @xcite suggest the outflow from both the day and night side of the planet may be suppressed .",
    "however , the planetary magnetosphere may help balance the stellar magnetic pressure in order to allow the wind from the planet to get started , and it may also lead to the outflowing material building up substantial optical depth at a size that is several times the nominal planetary radius ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) which is needed in order to produce the amount of h@xmath0 emission seen as discussed above .",
    "once the material escapes the planet and its magnetosphere , it may then be the stellar field that ultimately controls where the material flows .",
    "most models of mass loss from a hot jupiter find that the flow ultimately gets redirected by the stellar wind with the material eventually leaving the system . here",
    "though , the planetary wind would be launched inside the region of space governed by the stellar magnetosphere . in the case of cttss ,",
    "much of the material flowing off the disk near the co - rotation radius is forced by the stellar magnetosphere to travel along the field lines and accrete onto the star ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite find that the stellar rotation period is locked to the candidate planet s orbital period , so the planet would be feeding material into the stellar magnetosphere at the co - rotation radius which is very analogous to cttss accretion models ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "it may then be that material flowing off the planet is accreting onto the star in a magnetospheric accretion flow similar to that in cttss .",
    "this accreting material might then produce emission at higher redshifted velocities as it accelerates in the gravitational potential well of the star , as modeled for example by @xcite .",
    "such higher velocity tails are hinted at in figures 7 and 8 .",
    "material that is lost into a wind may also contribute h@xmath0 emission at velocities different from the orbital velocity of the suspected planet .",
    "* *      the interplay of material being lost by the planet embedded in the magnetosphere of a young star might explain all the h@xmath0 variations observed in ptfo8 - 8695 .",
    "line profiles seen in figures 1 , 5 , and 6 suggest that there are times when only emission from the chromospherically active star is present .",
    "as mentioned above , ptfo8 - 8695 is known to flare .",
    "a strong stellar flare may rapidly strip away the outflowing material from the planet resulting in no excess emission for some time . due to flares or other dynamo related variability",
    ", the planet at times may be in regions dominated by open stellar field lines where a strong stellar wind is flowing which stifles the planetary outflow as suggested by @xcite . at such times",
    ", there may be no excess h@xmath0 emission associated with the planet . at some point after a flare or once the planet moves into a region of closed stellar fields , the planetary outflow may be re - established and we observe the excess emission associated with the planet . as the flow continues and material begins to fill the stellar magnetosphere , accrete onto the star , or be lost to a wind , h@xmath0 emission will begin to have contributions from gas no longer directly tied to the planet .",
    "the radial velocity structure of this gas as viewed from earth , and the resulting line profile , might then get quite complex and produce the various profile shapes observed in figure 1 and 9 , as well as producing the higher velocity tails seen in figures 5 and 6 .",
    "the possibility that some component of the h@xmath0 excess emission is not directly tied to the planet cautions that the eccentric keplerian orbit discussed above may not be real , but simply due to the difficulty in isolating the emission coming directly from the planet .",
    "indeed , since the rv variations traced by the excess h@xmath0 emission likely include components not strictly in orbit with the suspected planet , it is difficult to definitively rule out any of the specific orbital fits shown in figure 10 .",
    "when the stellar field adjusts itself due to another flare or some dynamo variation , the sequence outlined above could then start all over again .",
    "@xcite suggest that the planet s orbital plane is inclined relative to the stellar equatorial plane , so even though the stellar rotation and planet s orbit may be locked , the planet is still moving in latitude relative to the star and hence is moving through different parts of the stellar magnetosphere .",
    "this motion through the stellar magnetic field could produce changes in a planetary flow within even a single orbit , leading to complicated variations in the h@xmath0 line profile . to explain the full range of variation in the line profiles observed from ptfo8 - 8695 , we are forced to invoke accretion onto the star .",
    "as discussed above , there is no suggestion of an infrared excess in this star , even out to 24 @xmath68 m .",
    "feeding the accretion flow with material escaping from a planet naturally explains the lack of an infrared excess , and the profile variability in ptfo8 - 8695 is at times well matched assuming excess h@xmath0 emission that is physically associated with the reported planet around this star .",
    "thus , we find the planet scenario outlined above the most likely explanation for the variations we see in the lines . above , we crudely estimated that the excess h@xmath0 emission would imply an accretion rate of @xmath108 m@xmath14 yr@xmath35 onto the star .",
    "if this accretion rate is fed entirely by a planet of @xmath109 m@xmath8 as suggested above , the lifetime of the planet would be @xmath110 yr .",
    "thus , if the candidate planet orbiting ptfo8 - 8695 is real , we expect it to evolve substantially over the pre - main sequence lifetime of this star .",
    "we have used relatively high time cadence , high spectral resolution optical observations to detect excess h@xmath0 emission from the @xmath1 myr old wtts ptfo8 - 8695 . at some times",
    "these high cadence observations show that the excess emission appears to move in velocity as expected if it were produced by the suspected planetary companion to this young star .",
    "we have considered the possibility that the observed excess emission is produced by stellar activity ( flares ) , accretion from a disk , or from a planetary companion ; we find the planetary companion to be the most likely explanation .",
    "yu et al . (",
    "2015 ) recently examined additional photometry and spectroscopy of this star in an effort to test the planet hypothesis for this system .",
    "they do not favor the hot jupiter hypothesis , instead suggesting that their data point to either starspots , eclipses by circumstellar dust ( fed by either a circumstellar disk or a low mass evaporating planet ) , or occultations of an accretion hotspot as the most likely explanation for the variations they observe .",
    "however , these authors did not observe the strong , variable , excess balmer emission that we discuss here and their alternatives would not account for it .",
    "above , we discuss the difficulties associated with a stellar activity or disk accretion origin for the h@xmath0 variations , and we conclude that an evaporating planet is the best explanation for the variations we observe .",
    "while no single model may fit all the data on this star , this may be due to the extreme nature of this object as a very rapidly rotating , magnetically active pre - main sequence star .",
    "therefore , we believe the planetary companion hypothesis is still a viable component of this unique system .    if the excess h@xmath0 emission we see does come from a planetary companion , the strength of the emission indicates that it arises in an extended volume around the planet , likely fed by mass loss from the planet which is expected to be overflowing its roche lobe . interpreting the radial velocity variations of the excess h@xmath0 emission as coming from the planet , we place an upper limit on the mass of the star as @xmath111 m@xmath14 , while the planet s mass would then be @xmath78 m@xmath8 .",
    "while there is evidence that the orbital inclination of this system varies dramatically due to nodal precession @xcite , the inclination at the time of our spectroscopic observations can not be too low or the stellar mass would become very inconsistent with its spectral type .",
    "this leads to an upper limit for the planet s mass of @xmath109 m@xmath8 .",
    "while the observations presented here are highly suggestive that we have directly observed the spectroscopic signature of a mass losing planet in orbit around this young star , these results are primarily based on relatively low signal - to - noise observations .",
    "further high signal - to - noise , high cadence time resolved h@xmath0 observations over several predicted orbits will greatly aid in solidifying the picture outlined in this work .",
    "in addition , we caution that theoretical work is likely still needed to determine whether such strong emission could really be produced by a young hot jupiter undergoing mass loss .",
    "lp and cmj - k wish to acknowledge partial support for this research from the nasa origins of solar systems program through grant number 07-sso07 - 86 made to lowell observatory .",
    "cmj - k also wishes to acknowledge partial support for this work from the national science foundation through grant number 1212122 made to rice university .",
    "this work was funded in part through the 2013 - 2014 nau / nasa space grant undergraduate research internship for jacob n. mclane .",
    "finally , we wish to thank an anonymous referee for several useful comments that improved the original manuscript .",
    "hinkle , k. , wallace , l. , valenti , j. , & harmer , d.  2000 , visible and near infrared atlas of the arcturus spectrum 3727 - 9300 a ed .",
    "kenneth hinkle , lloyd wallace , jeff valenti , and dianne harmer .",
    "( san francisco : asp ) isbn : 1 - 58381 - 037 - 4 , 2000 .",
    "lcccccc 05:43 & 3.2 & @xmath112 & 86.5 & @xmath113 & 0.282 & 195.1 + 08:07 & 4.3 & @xmath114 & 120.3 & @xmath115 & 0.505 & -6.2 + 08:53 & 4.7 & @xmath116 & 104.4 & @xmath117 & 0.577 & -98.2 + 09:44 & 5.7 & @xmath118 & 59.3 & @xmath119 & 0.656 & -164.8 + 10:32 & 5.1 & @xmath120 & 84.8 & @xmath121 & 0.730 & -197.1 + 11:17 & 4.4 & @xmath120 & 80.9 & @xmath122 & 0.800 & -189.0 +    lcccccccc & & & & & 8 dec 2012 & & & + 04:33 & 3 & 600 & 7.2 & & & & 0.484 & 20.0 + 05:16 & 3 & 600 & 6.9 & & & & 0.551 & -62.7 + 06:02 & 3 & 600 & 6.8 & & & & 0.621 & -137.2 + 06:46 & 3 & 600 & 7.7 & & & & 0.689 & -184.7 + 07:29 & 3 & 600 & 7.8 & & & & 0.756 & -199.0 + 08:13 & 3 & 600 & 5.8 & & & & 0.824 & -178.0 + 09:14 & 3 & 600 & 8.7 & & & & 0.919 & -97.0 + 09:57 & 3 & 600 & 7.4 & & & & 0.986 & -17.5 + 10:39 & 3 & 600 & 7.9 & & & & 0.051 & 62.7 + 11:21 & 3 & 600 & 7.2 & & & & 0.115 & 131.7 + 11:55 & 2 & 600 & 6.1 & & & & 0.169 & 173.9 + & & & & & & & & + & & & & & 9 dec 2012 & & & + 04:35 & 3 & 600 & 5.5 & & & & 0.719 & -195.3 + 05:23 & 3 & 600 & 7.4 & & & & 0.792 & -192.2 + 06:11 & 3 & 600 & 6.2 & & & & 0.867 & -147.7 + 06:55 & 3 & 600 & 2.6 & & & & 0.935 & -79.1 + 07:42 & 3 & 600 & 3.1 & & & & 0.008 & 10.0 + 08:21 & 2 & 600 & 6.4 & & & & 0.068 & 82.5 + 09:00 & 3 & 600 & 4.1 & & & & 0.128 & 143.4 + 09:47 & 3 & 600 & 6.8 & & & & 0.201 & 189.7 + 10:38 & 3 & 600 & 5.5 & & & & 0.280 & 195.6 + 11:27 & 3 & 600 & 6.8 & & & & 0.356 & 156.6 + & & & & & & & & + & & & & & 10 dec 2012 & & & + 04:25 & 1 & 1200 & 4.4 & @xmath123 & & & 0.902 & -115.0 + 04:48 & 1 & 1200 & 5.2 & @xmath124 & & & 0.931 & -83.6 + 05:27 & 1 & 1200 & 7.1 & @xmath125 & 83.4 & @xmath126 & 0.968 & -39.8 + 05:53 & 1 & 1200 & 7.3 & @xmath127 & 92.3 & @xmath128 & 0.026 & 32.4 + 06:15 & 1 & 1200 & 8.5 & @xmath129 & 111.4 & @xmath130 & 0.068 & 82.5 + 06:45 & 1 & 1200 & 7.2 & @xmath131 & 101.6 & @xmath132 & 0.102 & 160.3 + 07:12 & 1 & 1200 & 8.1 & @xmath133 & 97.2 & @xmath134 & 0.149 & 185.1 + 07:34 & 1 & 1200 & 7.0 & @xmath129 & 88.6 & @xmath135 & 0.225 & 196.6 + 08:03 & 1 & 1200 & 6.0 & @xmath136 & 86.4 & @xmath137 & 0.269 & 197.7 + 08:25 & 1 & 1200 & 7.1 & @xmath138 & 62.3 & @xmath139 & 0.303 & 188.2 + 08:47 & 1 & 1200 & 7.6 & @xmath140 & 69.1 & @xmath141 & 0.337 & 170.1 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use high time cadence , high spectral resolution optical observations to detect excess h@xmath0 emission from the @xmath1 myr old weak lined t tauri star ptfo8 - 8695 . </S>",
    "<S> this excess emission appears to move in velocity as expected if it were produced by the suspected planetary companion to this young star . </S>",
    "<S> the excess emission is not always present , but when it is , the predicted velocity motion is often observed . </S>",
    "<S> we have considered the possibility that the observed excess emission is produced by stellar activity ( flares ) , accretion from a disk , or a planetary companion ; we find the planetary companion to be the most likely explanation . </S>",
    "<S> if this is the case , the strength of the h@xmath0 line indicates that the emission comes from an extended volume around the planet , likely fed by mass loss from the planet which is expected to be overflowing its roche lobe . </S>"
  ]
}