{
  "article_text": [
    "neuromorphic devices have been inspired by the increasing understanding of mechanisms underlying the behaviour of real neurons , but hardware architectures have been principally focused on a brute force method to obtain realistic transfer functions of solicited artificial neurons ( see @xcite ) and neural networks .",
    "emulation of individual natural ingredients by using artificial components @xcite has been generally neglected until the recent inclusion in the emerging research device chapter of itrs 2013 @xcite .",
    "both classical and quantum schemes have been proposed to achieve artificial neuron behavior @xcite and quantum adiabatic neural systems @xcite irrespectively from their biological plausibility . on the other hand ,",
    "there are realistic ( naturally inspired ) kinds of neurons like those of @xcite which can be developed from both the material science and the architectural point of view .",
    "the implementation of biologically plausible artificial neurons and synapses at nanometric scale requires the development of techniques based on quantum chemistry , quantum mechanics , atomic physics and material science .",
    "the methods for emulating specific properties of neurons are based on radically different approaches and , to date , the topic has never been systematically reviewed . in this review paper",
    "we separately consider the key properties of a biological neural system including neurons and synaptic activity , and the implementation realized by exploiting different materials .",
    "+ real neurons and synapses are based on molecular scale phenomena , including ionic transport , single charge fluctuations , protein folding , as well as genic expression of dna . at such nanometric scale ,",
    "quantum mechanics plays a major role .",
    "studies in microtubules seems to confirm such conjecture @xcite .",
    "even if quantum effects have not been definitively demonstrated in neurons and in human brain in general , recent reports of quantum effects at room temperature in biological systems suggest that similar effects may be spread in many of them @xcite , including the brain , and the field is growing rapidly . in this paper , the recent progress in the fabrication of atomic scale devices suitable for implementation of nanometric electric functionality of real neurons is discussed . + artificial neurons can be described in terms of blocks which emulate functional properties",
    ". a nature - inspired artificial neuron will provide convergence and integration among the different blocks in a possibly single platform ( namely materials and process ) .",
    "the blocks include synapse blocks ( responsible of integration of the input spikes , elaboration of temporal dynamics , short and long - term plasticity mechanisms and of providing an output signal ) , a soma block ( for temporal integration , spike generation , refractory period block and spike - frequency or spiking threshold adaptation block ) , and axon and dendrites spatial structure block ( to implement the cable equation , for modeling signal propagation along passive neuronal fibers ) .",
    "generally the literature is concentrated to synaptic emulation as plasticity is considered of greater complexity if compared to aspects related to connectivity and internal mechanisms of signal processing in neurons .",
    "the latter can in principle be replaced by an equivalent circuit with similar transfer function and connections . in the first part of this review ,",
    "the key properties to achieve a nature inspired neural system are considered . in the second part",
    "a number of different fabrication methods and materials are reviewed .",
    "the features achieved by the fabrication methods are compared in the discussion section .",
    "a connection emerges between fluctuations and quantum effects with nanometric scale , and between associative plasticity and size above 20 nm .",
    "this section is devoted to the different kinds of plasticity and stochastic processes existing in real neurons and synapses .",
    "the classification here proposed is based on the number of neurons involved in the process , and the time evolution of both the voltage solicitations and the consequent changes of the conductance .",
    "the timescale of the duration is also considered . in the following the term plasticity",
    "is used to refer to synaptic plasticity , not to be confused with intrinsic plasticity .",
    "the latter , not discussed in this work , consists of a persistent modification of the electrical properties of neurons , as a consequence of neuronal or synaptic activity .",
    "long term plasticity , short term plasticity , spike - timing dependent plasticity , quantumness and stochastic activation are considered .",
    "their computational uses are summarized in table 1 .",
    "long term plasticity involves either two or three neurons , including a presynaptic neuron a1 ( eventually a modulatory interneuron neuron a2 ) and a postsynaptic neuron b. long term plasticity may last either hours or days .",
    "the induction of long term plasticity results in either an increased or a decreased probability of discharge of postsynaptic neurons after repeated potential bursts of presynaptic neurons .    * * long term potentiation * long term potentiation ( ltp ) involves two neurons , a presynaptic neuron a1 which acts as a generator of action potentials , and a postsynaptic neuron b. it results in the increase of the synaptic strength when activated by a high frequency stimulus . * * homosynaptic long term depression * homosynaptic long - term depression ( ltd ) involves two neurons , a presynaptic neuron a1 which acts as a generator of action potentials , and a postsynaptic neuron b. it results in the weakening of the synapse when activated by a low frequency stimulus . * * heterosynaptic long term depression * differently from the previous homosynaptic ltd , heterosynaptic ltd involves three neurons .",
    "it occurs at synapses that are not potentiated or are inactive between a1 and b. the weakening of the synapse is controlled by the firing of a distinct modulatory interneuron a2 , independently from the activity of the presynaptic or postsynaptic neurons , as reported by @xcite    in the literature on artificial neurons , the term long - term plasticity is often improperly used to refer to long term potentiation .",
    "usually long term potentiation and depression are a byproduct of the spiking time dependent plasticity ( stdp ) scheme ( section 2.3 ) , where three neurons are involved , two of which fire . from a computational point of view , ltp is employed by nature to encode space @xcite , while ltd to encode the features of space @xcite , for example orientation and finer details @xcite .",
    "in addition , ltd may determine selective weakening of synapses @xcite and the clearing of old memory traces ( see @xcite and @xcite .",
    "unlike with long term plasticity , short term plasticity ( stp ) involves only two neurons , namely a presynaptic neuron a , which has the role of exciting a postsynaptic neuron b. stp invokes a change in the electrical properties of a single synapse , and it can act both in a depressive and in a facilitative mode . the modification to synaptic",
    "efficacy is temporary and lasts generally 100 - 1000 ms .",
    "both the facilitation and the depression depend on the local finite amount of ions and molecules at the synapse , which are continuously exchanged and re - employed at every process in the site .",
    "it is worth noting that the convention here employs p for _ plasticity _ , while in ltp it refers to _",
    "potentiation_. for historical reasons , the analogous of the potentiation is called _ facilitation _ for the short term processes .    * * short term facilitation * short  term facilitation ( stf ) constitutes an increased excitability of a synapse as reaction to an external stimulus .",
    "stf is due to penetration of ca ions in the axon terminal after having generated a spike , with a consequent increase in the release of neurotransmitters . *",
    "* short term depression * short  term depression ( std ) consists in a diminished reaction of a neuron to external stimuli , due to the depletion of neurotransmitters during the synaptic process at the axon terminal of a pre - synaptic neuron .",
    "stf - enhanced synapses can be exploited to hold the memory trace of an input without recruiting persistent firing of neurons , which makes for a robust method to implement working memory @xcite .",
    "@xcite showed that stf can map the input features from a low - dimensional space to the high - dimensional state space of a network to boost read - out of input information .",
    "std can be employed to remove auto - correlation in temporal inputs , by exploiting the depression effect to reduce the output correlation of post - synaptic potential @xcite .",
    "spike timing dependent plasticity ( stdp ) is a temporally dependent asymmetric form of plasticity , which realizes associative plasticity .",
    "it involves at least three neurons , as the simplest system is constituted by a presynaptic neuron a1 coupled with postsynaptic neuron b , whose conductivity is changed after the process is completed , and a control presynaptic neuron a2 that excites the firing of the neuron b at some time .",
    "stdp is found in the following contexts :    * * forward stdp * ( f - stdp ) an asymmetric change in the conductance where the arrival of a repeated presynaptic spike from a1 a few milliseconds before postsynaptic action potentials in b leads to ltp , while the repeated arrival of presynaptic spikes after the occurrence of postsynaptic spikes in b leads to ltd .",
    "the connection between a2 and b does not change in the process . * * reversed stdp * ( r - stdp ) similar to f - stdp , where the repeated presynaptic spike arrival of a repeated presynaptic spike from a1 a few milliseconds before postsynaptic action potentials in b leads to ltd , and repeated spike arrival after postsynaptic spikes in b leads to ltp , like in some inhibitory connections to neocortical pyramidal neurons and corticostriatal synapses . *",
    "* invertible stdp * ( i - stdp ) in some cases , stdp has a major dependence on the voltage of the postsynaptic neuron b just before the generation of action potentials .",
    "the voltage at the time of the action potential is able to control the direction of the change of the synapse , even for fixed spike timing @xcite .",
    "depending on the voltage in b , the stdp behaves as either forward or reversed stdp .",
    "stdp is often used to refer to f - stdp .",
    "f - stdp has been achieved in several systems ( see the discussion section ) . both forward and reversed stdp",
    "have major computational use .",
    "f - stdp is considered the main faster responsible for memorization .",
    "f - stdp includes possible employment based on the emergence of long - range temporal correlations @xcite and temporal coding @xcite or spacetime localization learning ( see @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "r - stdp produces anti - hebbian synaptic plasticity which allows to predict and cancel self - generated sensory signals ( see @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    ".various properties of synaptic activity are used in the brain for computational purposes .",
    "the table lists the key properties , the possible computational use and the references . [",
    "cols=\"<,<,<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the correspondence between the quantum neuromorphic devices and biological neurons leads to a table summarizing the properties which has been artificially covered .",
    "pure ltp from the two - neurons scheme has been reported with memristors based on ag@xmath0s and cu@xmath0s , as well as in the ingazao memristor , while pure ltd has not been observed .",
    "figure [ fig : figure1 ] ( right ) shows the realization of ltp in ag@xmath0s .",
    "stf has also been reported in ag@xmath0s .",
    "the same materials that allow ltp also reproduce stf . like ltd , neither is pure std currently reported .",
    "figure [ fig : figure1 ] ( left ) shows the realization of stf in ag@xmath0s .",
    "+ f - stdp has been demonstrated in ingazno memristors , hfo@xmath0 based rrams , the organic hybrid method , and gst .",
    "gst is currently the most complete method for stdp , as all the f - stdp , the r - stdp and the i - stdp have been realized experimentally .",
    "interface and oxide defects in sio@xmath0 and hfo@xmath2 and single atom doping in cmos technology are currently the only method to introduce bistable noise at a native level in the components , like what happens in ion channels .",
    "current effects at a g@xmath3 conductance level are observed in silicon quantum dot technology , in the al single atom memory , and in ag@xmath4s and cu@xmath4s atomic switches .",
    "table 2 shows the potential of various device technologies for implementation of neural mechanisms .",
    "the second line indicates the number of neurons involved in the process .",
    "the last column reports the size of the devices . according to the size of a device , which depends on the device technology ,",
    "some properties are more easily obtained . at nanometric scale ,",
    "quantum and stochastic activation properties are obtained , but currently associative plasticity has not been demonstrated at such a small scale . for devices of size above 20 nm",
    "it is possible to implement plasticity but generally no quantum fluctuation effects are involved .",
    "an exception is provided by the hf - based rrams where both stochastic effects and plasticity have been reported , at the intermediate length scale of about 20 nm .",
    "silicon technology is able to realize long term , short term and associative plasticity only at a circuital level involving several components , while native properties for emulation of plasticity are not reported , so the corresponding elements in table 2 are left empty .",
    "none of the mentioned technologies reproduces pure depression mechanisms .",
    "ltd can be achieved as a byproduct of stdp .",
    "therefore , if we exclude plasticity of silicon for the above reason , currently none of the materials and the methods reported so far provides the complete set of properties considered above to implement biologically inspired artificial neurons .",
    "it is difficult at the current stage to predict which method will prove to be the most efficient for future hardware implementations of brain - like capabilities , and more research is needed .",
    "in order to implement biologically inspired properties of real neurons , a number of key ingredients emulating several kinds of plasticity and stochastic effects are required .",
    "the emulation of neurons and synapses at a more physical level calls for a multi ",
    "platform / multi  materials approach to support plasticity .",
    "there are suggestions to improve computational capability by including usually unwanted features such as noise , fluctuations , tolerance to large variability , and randomness of nodes and of connections .",
    "many of these properties naturally emerge at the quantum level , which governs the nanometric scale .",
    "the activity was partially supported by hokkaido university .",
    "the author thanks tetsuya asai for useful discussions and the anonymous reviewer for the proactive revision of the first version of the manuscript and for suggesting to add table 1",
    ".        lizeth g .-",
    ", asai t. , and motomura m. ( 2012 ) impact of noise on spike transmission through serially connected electrical fitzhugh - nagumo circuits with subthreshold and suprathreshold interconductances , _ journal of signal processing _ , vol .",
    "16 , no . 6 , pp.503507 .",
    "sahu , s. , ghosh , s. , hirata , k. , fujita , d. , and bandyopadhyay , a. ( 2013 ) , multi - level memory - switching properties of a single brain microtubule , _ applied physics letters _ , vol .",
    "102 , no . 12 , pp.123701 .",
    "escobar m.l . ,",
    "derrick b. ( 2007 ) ` long - term potentiation and depression as putative mechanisms for memory formation ' , _ in bermudez - rattoni f. neural plasticity and memory : from genes to brain imaging _ , boca raton : crc press .",
    "isbn 0 - 8493 - 9070 - 2 .",
    "morris , r. g. m. , anderson , e. , lynch , g. s. , and baudryl , m. ( 1986 ) selective impairment of learning and blockade of long - term potentiation by an n - methyl - d - aspartate _ nature _ vol .",
    "774776 .",
    "nicholls , r. e. , alarcon , j. m. , malleret , g. , carroll , r. c. , grody , m. , vronskaya , s. , and kandel , e. r. ( 2008 ) transgenic mice lacking nmdar - dependent ltd exhibit deficits in behavioral flexibility , _ neuron _ , vol .",
    "1 , pp . 104117 .",
    "malleret , g. , et al .",
    "( 2010 ) bidirectional regulation of hippocampal long - term synaptic plasticity and its influence on opposing forms of memory , _ the journal of neuroscience _ vol .",
    "38133825 .",
    "corcoran , t. g. , farmer , s. f. , and berthouze , l. ( 2010 ) role of stdp and heterogeneity in the emergence of long - range temporal correlations and frequency scaling in networks of lif neurons , _ bmc neuroscience _ , vol .",
    "11 , suppl .",
    "1 , pp . 23 .",
    "kuzum , d. , jeyasingh , r. g. , lee , b. , and wong , h. s. p. ( 2011 ) , nanoelectronic programmable synapses based on phase change materials for brain - inspired computing , _ nano letters _ ,",
    "12 , no . 5 , 21792186 .        mazzeo g. , prati e. , belli m. , leti g. , cocco s. , fanciulli m. , guagliardo f. , ferrari g. ( 2012 ) , charge dynamics of a single donor coupled to a few electrons quantum dot in silicon _ applied physical letters _ vol .",
    "100 , pp.213107 .",
    "prati , e. , hori , m. , guagliardo , f. , ferrari , g. , and shinada , t. ( 2012 ) , anderson - mott transition in arrays of a few dopant atoms in a silicon transistor _ nature nanotechnology _",
    ", vol . 7 , no . 7 , pp .",
    "443447      prati , e. , fanciulli , m. , calderoni , a. , ferrari , g. , and sampietro , m. ( 2007 ) , microwave irradiation effects on random telegraph signal in a mosfet , _ physics letters a _ , vol .",
    "370 , no . 5 , pp.491493 .",
    "ohno , t. , hasegawa , t. , tsuruoka , t. , terabe , k. , gimzewski , j. k. , and aono , m. ( 2011 ) short - term plasticity and long - term potentiation mimicked in single inorganic synapses , _ nature materials _ , vol .",
    "10 , no . 8 , pp . 591595 .",
    "nayak , a. , ohno , t. , tsuruoka , t. , terabe , k. , hasegawa , t. , gimzewski , j. k. , and aono , m. ( 2012 ) , controlling the synaptic plasticity of a cu2s gaptype atomic switch , _ advanced functional materials _",
    "17 , pp . 36063613 .",
    "wang , z. q. , xu , h. y. , li , x. h. , yu , h. , liu , y. c. , and zhu , x. j. ( 2012 ) , synaptic learning and memory functions achieved using oxygen ion migration / diffusion in an amorphous ingazno memristor , _ advanced functional materials _",
    "22 , no . 13 , pp.27592765 .",
    "puglisi , f. m. , pavan , p. , padovani , a. , larcher , l. , and bersuker , g. ( 2012 ) ` random telegraph signal noise properties of hfox rram in high resistive state ' , _ solid - state device research conference ( essderc ) , 2012 proceedings of the european _ , pp.274277 .",
    "bordeaux , france      ambrogio , s. , balatti , s. , mccaffrey , v. , wang , d. c. , and ielmini , d. ( 2015 ) noise - induced resistance broadening in resistive switching memory ",
    "part i : intrinsic cell behavior , _ ieee transactions on electron devices _ , vol .",
    "11 , pp.38053811 .",
    "lai , q. , zhang , l. , li , z. , stickle , w. f. , williams , r. s. , and chen , y. ( 2010 ) , ionic / electronic hybrid materials integrated in a synaptic transistor with signal processing and learning functions , _ advanced materials _ , vol .",
    "22 , pp.24482453 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i review the advancements of atomic scale nanoelectronics towards quantum neuromorphics . </S>",
    "<S> first , i summarize the key properties of elementary combinations of few neurons , namely long and short  </S>",
    "<S> term plasticity , spike - timing dependent plasticity ( associative plasticity ) , quantumness and stochastic effects , and their potential computational employment . </S>",
    "<S> next , i review several atomic scale device technologies developed to control electron transport at the atomic level , including single atom implantation for atomic arrays and cmos quantum dots , single atom memories , ag@xmath0s and cu@xmath0s atomic switches , hafnium based rrams , organic material based transistors , ge@xmath0sb@xmath0te@xmath1 synapses . </S>",
    "<S> each material / method proved successful in achieving some of the properties observed in real neurons . </S>",
    "<S> i compare the different methods towards the creation of a new generation of naturally inspired and biophysically meaningful artificial neurons , in order to replace the rigid cmos based neuromorphic hardware . </S>",
    "<S> the most challenging aspect to address appears to obtain both the stochastic / quantum behavior and the associative plasticity , which are currently observed only below and above 20 nm length scale respectively , by employing the same material .    </S>",
    "<S> enrico prati received his phd in physics at the university of pisa in 2002 . </S>",
    "<S> he is research scientist of istituto di fotonica e nanotecnologie of consiglio nazionale delle ricerche in italy , and visiting scholar of waseda univesity tokyo . </S>",
    "<S> his research interests include applications of atomic scale nanoelectronics to neuromorphic and photonic systems . </S>",
    "<S> he is author of a number of research studies published on high impact factor journals , as well as book chapters . </S>",
    "<S> he has been co - editor of a book on atom based nanoelectronics . </S>",
    "<S> he has been keynote speaker of iedm and panelist of itrs on deterministic doping of nanoelectronic devices . </S>"
  ]
}