{
  "article_text": [
    "in the first two papers in this series ( @xcite , referred to as papers i and ii respectively ) we studied the properties of a sample of sources selected from the tenth cambridge ( 10c ; @xcite ) survey at 15.7 ghz in the lockman hole .",
    "the 10c survey is complete to 0.5  mjy , making it the deepest high - frequency radio survey to date . in paper",
    "ii we found that the vast majority ( @xmath2 per cent ) of the sources in the 10c sample are radio galaxies ; the 10c sample is therefore the ideal starting point for a study of the properties of faint radio galaxies .",
    "it is well known that powerful extended radio galaxies can be split into two classes according to their morphology following the fanaroff ",
    "riley ( fr ) scheme ; fri sources have the highest surface brightness near the core , while frii sources are brightest near the lobe edges and have more collimated jets @xcite .",
    "there is also a divide in luminosity between the two classes , with the more powerful frii sources having @xmath3 , while the fri sources predominantly have luminosities below this value .",
    "some recent papers ( e.g.  @xcite , ) have introduced the ` fr0 ' classification to describe radio galaxies which lack the extended emission typical of fri and frii sources .",
    "there are two main types of compact radio galaxies ; compact - steep spectrum sources ( css ) , which have linear sizes between 1 and 15  kpc and convex spectra which peak below @xmath4  mhz , and gigahertz - peaked spectrum sources ( gps ) , which are smaller with linear sizes @xmath5  kpc and have spectra which peak between 500  mhz and 10  ghz ( see @xcite for a review )",
    ". both classes of compact sources are powerful , with typical luminosities @xmath6 .",
    "there is evidence that both gps and css sources are young radio galaxies ( @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "it has been known for some time @xcite that the properties of radio galaxies are not fully explained by the conventional model of an agn , consisting of an accretion disk surrounded by a dusty torus .",
    "based on this model , we would expect radio - loud objects viewed close to the jet axis to show both broad and narrow optical emission lines , while radio - loud objects viewed at larger angles to the jet would only show narrow lines and would have a clear mid - infrared signature of the dusty torus . however , many radio - loud agn lack the expected narrow - line optical emission and do not display evidence of an obscuring torus ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "subsequent studies have suggested that there are two fundamentally distinct accretion modes , known as ` cold mode ' and ` hot mode ' ( see @xcite ) which could be responsible for these differences ( these modes are sometimes referred to as ` quasar ' and ` radio ' modes respectively ) .",
    "cold - mode accretion occurs when cold gas is accreted onto the central black hole through a radiatively efficient , geometrically thin , optically thick accretion disk ( e.g.  ) and gives rise to the traditional model of an agn .",
    "these objects therefore show high - excitation lines in their optical spectra , so are often referred to as high - excitation radio galaxies ( hergs ) . ` hot mode ' sources , however , are thought to be fuelled by the accretion of warm gas through advection - dominated accretion flows ( e.g.  @xcite ) and lack many of the typical signatures of agn , such as strong optical emission lines .",
    "these objects are often referred to as low - excitation radio galaxies ( lergs ) .",
    "lergs typically show no evidence for a dusty torus @xcite or for accretion - related x - ray emission @xcite .",
    "there are also differences in the host galaxies of the two populations , with hergs found in less massive and bluer galaxies than lergs .",
    "although both hergs and lergs are found across the full range in radio luminosities , lergs seem to dominate at lower luminosities and hergs at higher luminosities @xcite .",
    "there is a substantial overlap between the fri / ii classification and the herg and lerg classes , with most fri sources being lergs and most friis being hergs @xcite .",
    "there are , however , differences in the two classifications , in particular a significant population of frii lergs has been found @xcite .",
    "@xcite showed that low - redshift hergs and lergs have distinct accretion rates ; hergs typically accrete at between 1 and 10 per cent of their eddington rate , while lergs generally have accretion rates much less than 1 per cent of their eddington rate .",
    "@xcite also find evidence for this at @xmath7 using mid - infrared data .",
    "therefore a picture is emerging where hergs accrete cold gas at a relatively high rate @xcite and radiate efficiently across the whole electromagnetic spectrum ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "this causes them to produce a stable accretion disc and therefore display the typical properties of an agn .",
    "the cold gas leads to star formation @xcite , causing the host galaxies of hergs to be relatively blue ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "in addition , hergs are more prevalent at earlier cosmic epochs , where higher rates of mergers and interactions provided a steady supply of cold gas .",
    "lergs , however , slowly accrete warm gas from the x - ray emitting halo of the galaxy or cluster .",
    "they radiate inefficiently , emitting the bulk of their energy in kinetic form as powerful jets ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "they therefore tend to be hosted by massive galaxies , often at the centres of groups or clusters @xcite .",
    "these galaxies have an old , passive stellar population and show little cosmic evolution out to @xmath7 @xcite .",
    "the fundamentally different accretion modes of hergs and lergs cause them to have different radio properties .",
    "@xcite studied the properties of high flux density ( @xmath8  mjy ) hergs and lergs in the australia telescope 20  ghz ( at20 g ; @xcite ) sample and found that while both accretion modes display a range of radio properties , a higher fraction of hergs are extended and have steep spectra .",
    "they suggest that this is because hergs are accreting more efficiently than lergs , and therefore have a greater chance of producing more luminous jets and lobes .",
    "they also find that hergs display different properties depending on their orientation , with objects displaying broad emission lines tending to be flat spectrum , and objects with narrow lines tending to be steep spectrum , as predicted by orientation models ( ) .",
    "lergs , however , display no orientation effects .",
    "these results are consistent with the scenario in which hergs have a typical agn accretion disk and torus while lergs do not .",
    "most studies of hergs and lergs have focussed on high flux density ( e.g.  @xcite ) or low redshift",
    "( e.g.  @xcite ) sources , with the exception of @xcite , who studied a small sample at @xmath7 . in this work ,",
    "we focus on a sample of high - frequency selected mjy and sub - mjy sources . in section  [ section : radio - data ]",
    "we outline the data used in this study . in section",
    "[ section : classifications ] we describe how this data is used to separate the radio galaxies into hergs and lergs and the properties of these hergs and lergs are explored in section  [ section : object_properties ] . in section  [ section : fr - sources ] the sample is split into different radio morphological classes and the properties of these classes are discussed and compared to the herg and lergs classifications . the sample is compared to the higher - flux density at20 g sample in section  [ section : other - work ] and the conclusions are presented in section  [ section : chap5-conclusions ] .",
    "the 10c survey was observed with the arcminute microkelvin imager ( ami ; @xcite ) and covered a total of 27  deg@xmath9 complete to 1  mjy across ten different fields .",
    "a further 12  deg@xmath9 , contained within these fields , is complete to 0.5  mjy . in paper",
    "i we selected a sample of 296 sources from two fields of the 10c survey in the lockman hole .",
    "this sample was matched to a number of lower - frequency ( and higher resolution ) catalogues available in the field ; a deep 610  mhz giant meterwave radio telescope ( gmrt ) image @xcite , a 1.4  ghz westerbork synthesis radio telescope ( wsrt ) image @xcite , two deep very large array ( vla ) images at 1.4  ghz which only cover part of the field @xcite , the national radio astronomy observatory ( nrao ) vla sky survey ( nvss ; @xcite ) and the faint images of the radio sky at twenty centimetres ( first ; @xcite ) .",
    "for full details of the catalogues used and the matching procedure see paper i. these data enabled spectral indices and angular sizes to be found for the 10c sources .",
    "in paper ii we selected a complete sub - sample of 96 sources from the full 10c sample used in paper i. this sub - sample is the subject of the remainder of this paper ; it is complete to 0.5  mjy at 15.7  ghz and is in a region of the field with particularly good low - frequency ( 610  mhz and 1.4  ghz ) coverage . all but one of the sources have counterparts in at least one of the lower - frequency catalogues so spectral indices and accurate positions are available",
    "this sample was matched to the ` data fusion ' catalogue , which was compiled by @xcite and contains most of the multi - wavelength data available in the field .",
    "the catalogues included are : the _ spitzer _ wide - area infrared extragalactic survey ( swire ; see @xcite ) , the _ spitzer _",
    "extragalactic representative volume survey ( servs ; see @xcite ) and the united kingdom infrared telescope ( ukirt ) infrared deep sky survey ( ukidss ; see @xcite ) with deep optical photometric data taken by @xcite ( gs11 ) at the isaac newton telescope ( int ) and the kitt peak national observatory ( kpno ) .",
    "in total 80 out of the 96 sources have at least one multi - wavelength counterpart .",
    "spectroscopic redshifts are available for 24 sources and photometric redshifts were estimated for the remaining sources where possible , giving redshift values or estimates for 77 out of the 96 sources .",
    "the median redshift of the sample is 0.91 . in paper",
    "ii we used these multi - wavelength data to show that @xmath2 per cent of sources in this sample are radio galaxies , with a very small number of low redshift starforming galaxies .",
    "for further details of the multi - wavelength data , the methods used to match the catalogues and compute photometric redshifts see paper ii .",
    "in addition , to help elucidate the nature of these radio galaxies , x - ray data are used in this paper .",
    "there are two separate x - ray survey fields in the lockman hole 10c survey area : one field is observed by _",
    "@xcite and one by _",
    "xmm - newton _ .",
    "[ fig : xray ] illustrates the positions of these two surveys .",
    "lockman hole field covers 0.7  deg@xmath9 and detected 775 x - ray sources to a limiting broadband ( 0.3 to 8  kev ) flux @xmath10 .",
    "the _ xmm - newton _ field covers @xmath110.2  deg@xmath9 and detects 409 sources with a sensitivity limit of 1.9 , 9 and 180 @xmath12 in the 0.5 to 2.0 , 2.0 to 10.0 and 5.0 to 10.0  kev bands respectively .",
    "the two x - ray catalogues were matched to the 10c sources using a 5 arcsec match radius ( a procedure similar to that described in section 3.2 in paper ii was carried out to determine an appropriate match radius ) . for those 10c sources with a match to the data fusion catalogue ,",
    "the servs position from the data fusion catalogue was used . for the remaining sources",
    "the radio position was used , with the radio position chosen in the following order of preference : first , gmrt , bi2006/om2008 , wsrt , 10c .",
    "the results of this matching are summarised in table [ tab : xray - matches ] . in total ,",
    "out of 32 10c sources in the two x - ray survey areas , 15 ( 47 per cent ) have an x - ray counterpart",
    ".    .a summary of the x - ray counterparts found for 10c sources . [ cols= \" < , < , < , < \" , ]     the morphological and excitation classifications are compared in table  [ tab : morph_spec ] .",
    "there is some indication that more fr0c and fr0 g sources may be hergs than lergs .",
    "css and gps sources are the most compact source types studied here , so this is consistent with the conclusion from section  [ section : herg_overall ] that the hergs in the 10c sample are smaller and in some cases more core - dominated than the lergs . however ,",
    "due to the small numbers of sources involved and the large proportion of sources which do not have excitation classifications or are in the fr0u category , this result may not be significant .",
    "the tendency for the lergs in this sample to be more extended than the hergs supports the scenario in which hergs emit efficiently across the whole electromagnetic spectrum while lergs emit most of their energy in kinetic form , causing them to appear more extended in the radio ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "the at20 g survey @xcite was carried out with the australia telescope compact array at 20  ghz and surveyed the whole southern sky , detecting nearly 6000 radio sources with @xmath8  mjy . as the at20 g survey probes significantly higher flux densities than the 10c survey , comparing the two samples allows us to look at how high - frequency selected radio sources change over a wide range of flux densities .",
    "we have already shown in paper i how the spectral indices of this population change significantly with 15.7-ghz flux density : from a population dominated by flat spectrum sources at high flux densities ( > 100 mjy ) , to a population where the majority of the sources have steep spectra between @xmath13 , before returning to a flat - spectrum dominated population below 1 mjy .",
    "the optical properties of the 4932 at20 g sources outside the galactic plane were studied by @xcite using data from the supercosmos database .",
    "more recently , a sub - sample of 202 nearby ( median redshift of 0.058 ) at20 g sources with counterparts in the 6df galaxy survey ( 6dfgs ) were investigated by @xcite ( we will refer to this sub - sample as the at20g-6dfgs sample ) . here , we compare these two samples ( the full at20 g sample and the low - redshift at20g-6dfgs sample ) to the 10c sample studied in this paper .",
    "the 15.7-ghz luminosity distributions are given in fig .",
    "[ fig : at20g - lum ] , the at20 g luminosities are shifted from 20 to 15.7 ghz using the spectral index of each source ( @xmath14 is used for those sources with a sumss counterpart , and @xmath15 is used for sources with an nvss counterpart ) .",
    "the 10c and at20g-6dfgs luminosity distributions are quite similar though the 10c distribution is shifted to slightly higher luminosities than the at20g-6dfgs sample , with a median 15.7-ghz luminosity of @xmath16 compared to @xmath17 .",
    "the 15.7-ghz luminosity distribution for the full at20 g sample , however , has a different shape and peaks at a significantly higher luminosity ( @xmath18 ) than the other two distributions .",
    "[ fig : at20g - z ] shows the redshift distributions of the three samples ; here the 10c redshift distribution is more similar to that of the full at20 g sample , while the at20g-6dfgs sources all have low redshifts ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "there is , however , some indication that there are a smaller proportion of low - redshift sources in the 10c sample than in the at20 g sample .",
    "these distributions show that the 10c sources are , in terms of their luminosities , higher - redshift versions of the objects found in the at20g-6dfgs bright galaxy sample rather than those found in the full at20 g sample .",
    "the differences between 10c and the full at20 g sample are also highlighted in the nature of the associated optical objects .",
    "@xcite investigated the optical compactness of the host galaxies of the at20 g sample and found that the population is dominated by ` stellar ' sources ( which are point - like in the optical ) and that the proportion of these sources decreases with decreasing 20-ghz flux density as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : mahony ] .",
    "we find that this trend continues as flux density decreases further  only nine per cent of the sources with @xmath20 are point - like in the optical . as fig .",
    "[ fig : mahony ] shows , the population changes steadily from being dominated by point - like objects ( i.e.  quasars ) at high flux densities to being dominated by extended objects ( i.e. galaxies ) at lower flux densities . in this respect",
    "the 10c sample closely resembles the at20g-6dfgs sample - though the latter by definition does not contain any quasars .",
    "consistent with the high proportion of optically - compact objects the majority ( 60 per cent of those with spectra available ) of the sources in the at20 g sample are hergs , while 25 per cent are lergs .",
    "by contrast 77 per cent of the nearby galaxies in the at20g-6dfgs sample are lergs and 23 per cent are hergs .",
    "the statistics for the 10c sample are less well - defined as about a third are probable hergs , a third probable lergs and a third are unclassified ; nevertheless it is likely that , despite the similarity in luminosity with the nearby at20g-6dfgs sample , there is a higher proportion of hergs in this higher redshift sample",
    ". this would be broadly consistent with the @xcite picture in which the hergs show strong cosmic evolution with redshift where as the lergs show only weak or no evolution .",
    "comparison of the proportions of sources in the different radio morphological classes indicates that in this respect the 10c sample also resembles the at20g-6dfgs sample . a similar proportion of the sources in both samples",
    "are classified as fr0 ( 70  80 per cent of the 10c sample and 70  75 per cent in the at20g-6dfgs sample ) ; due to the uncertainties in the classification of the fri and frii sources in the 10c sample and the relatively small numbers of sources involved it is not possible to make meaningful comparisons of the fri and frii populations of the two samples .",
    "it is not possible to make comparisons with the radio structures of the sources in the full at20 g sample as they have not been imaged on comparable angular scales .    in summary ,",
    "the sources in the 10c sample are found at similar redshifts but have lower luminosities than those in the at20 g sample .",
    "the powerful sources which dominate the at20 g sample are largely missing from the 10c sample ",
    "instead , the 10c sources seem to be higher - redshift versions of the lower - luminosity , compact radio galaxies found in the at20g-6dfgs sub - sample .",
    "we have studied the properties of a sample of 96 radio galaxies selected from the 10c sample in the lockman hole . to distinguish between high and low - excitation radio galaxies ( hergs and lergs )",
    "three different methods are used ; optical compactness , x - ray observations and mid - infrared colour  colour diagrams .",
    "these methods are combined to produce overall herg and lerg classifications ; a total of 32 sources are classified as ` probable hergs ' , 35 as ` probable lergs ' and 29 remain unclassified .",
    "17 sources are also classified using their optical spectra ; the spectroscopic classifications agree with the classifications derived here in 94 per cent of cases , showing that this is a reliable way of distinguishing between hergs and lergs .",
    "the properties of these hergs and lergs are then compared .",
    "we find that the hergs in our sample tend to be found at higher redshifts , have flatter spectra , higher 15.7-ghz flux densities and smaller linear sizes than lergs .",
    "note however that the relatively large proportion of unclassified sources have the potential to change this result .",
    "this result is in contrast to that found for the higher - flux - density at20 g sample , where the hergs have steeper spectra and are more extended than the lergs .",
    "this suggests that the hergs in the 10c sample have different properties to their higher - flux - density counterparts , lacking the powerful extended emission typical of fri and frii sources , and instead being dominated by their cores .",
    "low - frequency ( 610  mhz ) radio images , along with radio spectral indices and linear sizes , are used to split the sources into different radio morphological classes .",
    "although 18 sources are found to be fri or frii sources and 13 others are significantly extended , the majority of the sample ( 65 sources ) do not display any extended emission on arcsecond scales and are therefore classified as fr0 sources .",
    "these fr0 sources are further subdivided into candidate gps sources ( 13 sources ) and candidate css sources ( 10 sources ) , while the remaining 42 sources could not be classified .",
    "the sub - sample of fainter 10c sources with 15.7-ghz flux density @xmath1  1  mjy contains a higher proportion of compact fr0 sources ( 81 per cent ) , consistent with the result from paper i that the majority of the faint 10c sources have flat radio spectra .",
    "there is some indication that the css and gps sources are more likely to be hergs than lergs , supporting the idea that the 10c hergs tend to be smaller and in some cases more core - dominated than the lergs , but a larger proportion of the source must be classified optically into hergs and lergs before this conclusion can be confirmed .    by comparing these results to those from both the full at20 g survey @xcite and the sub - sample of nearby ( @xmath21 ) sources in the at20g-6dfgs sample @xcite we have studied the high - frequency extragalactic source population over a wide range in flux density .",
    "we find that the fainter 10c sources are not simply higher - redshift versions of the brighter at20 g sources ; the two samples are found at similar redshifts , but the 10c sources have significantly lower luminosities .",
    "the nature of the optical counterparts to the radio galaxies changes with flux density ; at high flux densities most radio sources are associated with quasars , while at low flux densities the optical counterparts are primarily galaxies .",
    "we find evidence that the 10c sources may be higher - redshift versions of the lower - luminosity , compact radio galaxies found in the at20g-6dfgs sub - sample .",
    "this work shows that the faint , flat spectrum radio galaxies which dominate the high - frequency radio sky below 1  mjy are a mixed population of hergs and lergs , most of which lack the extended emission typical of fri or ii radio galaxies and have lower luminosities than the higher - flux density sources found in shallower surveys .",
    "we thank the referee for their insightful comments which helped to improve this paper .",
    "ihw acknowledges a science and technology facilities council studentship and financial support from the ska south africa .",
    "mjj acknowledges support from the ska south africa .",
    "opinions expressed and conclusions arrived at are those of the authors and not necessarily attributed to the ska sa .",
    "we thank philip best and roberto maiolino for useful discussions .",
    "thanks to matt prescott for his help with the optical spectra .",
    "guglielmino g. , prandoni i. , morganti r. , heald g. , 2012 , in ` resolving the sky ",
    "radio interferometry : past , present and future ' , available online at http://pos.sissa.it/cgi-bin/reader/conf.cgi?confid=163 , id.22                              laing r.  a. , jenkins c.  r. , wall j.  v. , unger s.  w. , 1994 , in ` the first stromlo symposium : the physics of active galaxies ' . astronomical society of the pacific conference series , vol .",
    "54 , 1994 , eds .",
    "bicknell g.  v. , dopita m.  a. , and quinn p.  j. , p.201                                          snellen i.  a.  g. , 2008 , in proceedings of the symposium ` approaching micro - arcsecond resolution with vsop2 : astrophysics and technology ' ( isas / jaxa , sagamihara , japan , 3 - 7 dec 2007 ) . astronomical society of the pacific conference series , eds .",
    "hagiwara y. , fomalont e.  b. , tsuboi m. , murata y , arxiv:0802.1976"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a complete sample of 96 faint ( @xmath0  mjy ) radio galaxies is selected from the tenth cambridge ( 10c ) survey at 15.7  ghz . </S>",
    "<S> optical spectra are used to classify 17 of the sources as high - excitation or low - excitation radio galaxies ( hergs and lergs respectively ) , for the remaining sources three other methods are used ; these are optical compactness , x - ray observations and mid - infrared colour  colour diagrams . </S>",
    "<S> 32 sources are hergs and 35 are lergs while the remaining 29 sources could not be classified . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the 10c hergs tend to have higher 15.7-ghz flux densities , flatter spectra , smaller linear sizes and be found at higher redshifts than the lergs . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that the 10c hergs are more core dominated than the lergs .    </S>",
    "<S> lower - frequency radio images , linear sizes and spectral indices are used to classify the sources according to their radio morphology ; 18 are fanaroff and riley type i or ii sources , a further 13 show some extended emission , and the remaining 65 sources are compact and are referred to as fr0 sources . </S>",
    "<S> the fr0 sources are sub - divided into compact , steep - spectrum ( css ) sources ( 13 sources ) or ghz - peaked spectrum ( gps ) sources ( 10 sources ) with the remaining 42 in an unclassified class . </S>",
    "<S> fr0 sources are more dominant in the subset of sources with 15.7-ghz flux densities @xmath11  mjy , consistent with the previous result that the fainter 10c sources have flatter radio spectra .    </S>",
    "<S> the properties of the 10c sources are compared to the higher - flux density australia telescope 20  ghz ( at20 g ) survey . </S>",
    "<S> the 10c sources are found at similar redshifts to the at20 g sources but have lower luminosities . </S>",
    "<S> the nature of the high - frequency selected objects change as flux density decreases ; at high flux densities the objects are primarily quasars , while at low flux densities radio galaxies dominate .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  radio continuum : galaxies  surveys </S>"
  ]
}