{
  "article_text": [
    "modern life would be unimaginable without reliable availability of electricity .",
    "electricity is generated by different infrastructure such as power plants , wind farms or solar cells .",
    "it is then distributed to customers through electrical power grids .",
    "there are frequently appearing losses , of which electricity theft is most predominantly known to the public .",
    "however , losses can be classified more accurately into technical and non - technical losses .",
    "technical losses are naturally caused due to power dissipation , in particular by internal electrical resistance of the wires .",
    "the focus of this paper is on non - technical losses ( ntl ) , which appear during distribution and include electricity theft .",
    "there are many forms of electricity theft such as meter tampering , bypassing meters or arranged false meter readings , for example by manipulating interfaces or bribing meter readers @xcite .",
    "other forms of ntl include faulty or broken meters , un - metered supply and human or technical errors in meter readings , processing and billing @xcite .",
    "this paper therefore considers not only electricity theft , but ntl as a whole .",
    "an example of a consumption time series of a customer with monthly meter readings is depicted in figure  [ fig : fraud_example ] . in the beginning of 2011 , the consumption significantly decreased to about a fifth and remained at this level in the course of 2011 .",
    "based on this pattern , an inspection was carried out in the beginning of 2013 , which detected a ntl , more concretely electricity theft .",
    "this manipulation of the infrastructure was reverted and the electricity consumption resumed to the previous level .",
    "one year later , the electricity consumption dropped again to about a third , which led to another inspection a few months later .",
    "ntls are of significant harm to economies and effects include loss of revenue and profit , decrease of the stability and reliability of power grids .",
    "they are reported to range up to 40% of the total electricity distributed in countries such as brazil , india , malaysia or lebanon @xcite .",
    "they are also of relevance in developed countries , for example estimates of ntls in the uk and us range from us$ 1 - 6 billion @xcite .",
    "carrying out physical inspections of customers for ntl is costly .",
    "therefore , ntl predictions have to be accurate .",
    "we have previously identified the main open challenges in order to advance ntl detection @xcite :    * class imbalance and evaluation metric * feature description * incorrect inspection results * biased inspection results * scalability * comparison of different methods    imbalanced classes in a data set describe the fact that it contains an inequal amount of labels per class .",
    "accurate evaluation metrics need to take this property into account .",
    "feature description is a long - standing challenge in machine learning because learning algorithms often do not work on the raw data and need to be trained on features computed from the raw data .",
    "the set of inspected customers is a sample of all customers .",
    "this sample does not represent the overall population of customers as previous inspections have focused on certain area .",
    "furthermore , some inspection results reported are incorrect as technicians may have been threatened or bribed by fraudsters .",
    "the main idea of this paper is to build scalable models that use neighborhood - based engineered features from imbalanced big data sets . by using information of the neighborhood",
    ", we can predict ntl better as there are geographic clusters of ntl among the customers . to the best of our knowledge , we are not aware of any previously published research that addressed this topic .    the rest of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section [ chapter : review ] provides a literature review of ntl detection .",
    "section [ chapter : ntl ] describes the data set and the main contribution , which are features that include information about the neighborhood .",
    "we analyze their statistical properties and show why they are useful for ntl detection .",
    "furthermore , we describe the different proposed ntl detection models and explain why they are particularly scalable to big data sets . section [ chapter : eval ] presents experimental results and a comparison of the models on the data for different ntl proportions in the data .",
    "section [ chapter : end ] summarizes this work and provides an outreach on future work .",
    "ntl detection can be treated as an anomaly or fraud detection problem .",
    "comprehensive surveys of the field of ntl detection are provided in @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "surveys of how an advanced metering infrastructure can be manipulated , are provided in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "most ntl detection research apply artificial intelligence methods to it . in particular , the methods used fall into two categories : expert systems and machine learning .",
    "expert systems incorporate hand - crafted rules in order to make decisions .",
    "in contrast , machine learning methods learn models from data without being explicitly programmed .    one method to detect ntl",
    "is to derive features from the customer consumption time series , such as in @xcite : average consumption , maximum consumption , standard deviation , number of inspections and average consumption of the residential neighborhood .",
    "these features are then grouped into c classes using fuzzy c - means clustering .",
    "next , customers are classified into ntl or non - ntl using the fuzzy memberships .",
    "an average precision of 0.745 is achieved on the test set .",
    "daily average consumption features of the last 25 months are used in @xcite for less than 400 out of a highly imbalanced data set of 260k customers .",
    "these features are then used in a support vector machine ( svm ) with a gaussian kernel for ntl prediction , for which a test recall of 0.53 is achieved .",
    "the class imbalance problem has been addressed in @xcite . in that paper , an ensemble of two svms , an optimum - path forest and a decision tree",
    "is applied to 300 test data . while the class imbalance problem is addressed ,",
    "the degree of imbalance of the 1.5k training examples is not reported .",
    "the consumption profiles of 5k brazilian industrial customer profiles are analyzed in @xcite .",
    "each customer profile contains 10 features including the demand billed , maximum demand , installed power , etc .",
    "a svm and k - nearest neighbors perform similarly well with test accuracies of 0.962 .",
    "both outperform a neural network , which achieves a test accuracy of 0.945 .    in our previous research in @xcite",
    "we have particularly addressed the class imbalance of ntl detection and how to assess models in such an environment .",
    "we have compared boolean and fuzzy expert systems to a support vector machine trained on time series features of ntl proportion samples ranging from 0.1% to 90% of 700k brazilian customers . in order to assess the models , we have proposed to use the area under the receiver - operating characteristic curve ( auc ) .",
    "we have shown that only analyzing the time series leads to limited results and that further data must be taken into account , too .",
    "we believe that the neighborhood of customers contains information about whether a customer may cause a ntl or not .",
    "this has not adequately been addressed in previous research .",
    "furthermore , many models reported in the literature do not scale to big data sets and from our perspective it is necessary to take this into account in order to deploy the models to a real environment .",
    "the data set used for experiments in this paper is from an electricity provider in brazil .",
    "it contains 31 m monthly meter readings from january 2011 to january 2015 of 700k customers .",
    "each meter reading contains the consumption in kwh and date of the reading . for each customer ,",
    "the master data includes , but is not limited to , the location , the customer class , the voltage of the connection , the number of wires going into the building and the contract status .",
    "also , the data set includes 400k inspection results : if a ntl was found , the type of ntl and notes written by the technician .",
    "this is the same database used in our previous research @xcite .",
    "about one third of the inspections found a ntl .",
    "however , the models of this paper must also work in other regions which have different ntl proportions .",
    "therefore , 14 samples each having 100k inspects results are generated with the following ntl proportions : 1% , 2% , 3% , 4% , 5% , 10% , 20% , 30% , 40% , 50% , 60% , 70% , 80% and 90% .",
    "for each proportion sample , the following three types of features are used per customer @xmath0 : neighborhood information , daily average consumption and categorial master data of the customer .",
    "also , a binary target vector @xmath1 is created in which element @xmath2 is the most recent inspection result for customer @xmath0 in the respective period of time .",
    "ntls are encoded by 1 if they are detected and 0 if not .",
    "certain areas are more likely to cause ntls than others .",
    "therefore , features based on the neighborhood are interesting in order to improve predictions .",
    "the data includes invalid coordinates of customers , such as coordinates in the ocean . for this",
    ", all customers outside a deviation from the mean coordinates are removed .",
    "we empirically found that removing the 1k customers that are not within five standard deviations from the mean coordinates worked the best .",
    "the bounding box around the remaining valid coordinates is about 200 km along the longitude and about 500 km along the latitude .",
    "therefore , the bounding box has an area of approximately 100,000 km@xmath3 .",
    "this bounding box is split into a grid along the longitude and latitude .    in each cell@xmath4 , the proportion of inspected customers and the proportion of ntl found among the inspected customers are computed : @xmath5 @xmath6    an example cell is provided in figure  [ fig : grid_example ] .",
    "the grid sizes used are 50 , 100 , 200 and 400 cells along the longitude and latitude , respectively . for each grid size",
    ", both features are assigned to each customer registered in the respective cell .",
    "the area per cell is depicted in table  [ table : cellarea ] for each grid size .",
    "[ table : cellarea ]    .area per cell for all grid sizes . [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     model xy% stands for a model that was trained on a ntl proportion of xy% and tested on all proportions . best model per proportion in * bold*.        the rf classifier achieves the greatest auc throughout the experiments of 0.628 for a ntl proportion of 3% and achieves the best auc among all classifiers for 7 of the 14 classifiers .",
    "the svm performs the best on 4 proportions , the lr performs performs the best on 2 proportions .",
    "both classifiers perform similarly well on the ntl proportion of 10% .",
    "the knn classifier only performs the best on one proportion .",
    "even though the rf achieved the maximum auc , it also has the lowest auc throughout the experiments .",
    "furthermore , it has the greatest standard deviation of all classifiers .",
    "overall , all four classifiers perform in the same regime , as their mean auc scores over all ntl proportions are very close .",
    "this observation is often made in machine learning , as the actual algorithm is less important , but having more and representative data is generally considered to be more important @xcite .",
    "this can also be justified by the `` no free lunch theorem '' , which states that no learning algorithm is generally better than others @xcite .",
    "concretely , we have reported that using extra data , i.e. neighborhood information and categorial customer master data , help to improve the performance of the learning algorithms over using only the time series .    in section  [ chapter : review ] , we have identified the main challenges to advance ntl detection .",
    "we believe that ntl detection using the current inspection labels is limited .",
    "therefore , it is desirable to analyze the data in an unsupervised manner in order to get further insights into its structure . this will help to compensate the bias in the distribution of the labels and to also remove potentially wrong inspection labels .",
    "in this work , we have proposed two neighborhood features for ntl detection of a big data set of 700k customers and 400k inspection results by splitting the area into a grid : the ratio of customers inspected and ratio of inspected customers for which ntl was detected .",
    "we generated these features for four different grid sizes .",
    "we have analyzed the statistical properties of their distributions and showed why they are useful for predicting ntl .",
    "these features were combined with daily average consumption features of the last 12 months before the most recent inspection of a customer from a big data set , which contains 32 m meter readings in total .",
    "furthermore , we also used selected customer master data , such as the customer class and voltage of the connection of the customer .",
    "we used four machine learning algorithms that are particularly suitable for big data sets to predict if a customer causes a ntl or not : logistic regression , k - nearest neighbors , linear support vector machine and random forest .",
    "we observed that all models significantly perform better when using the neighborhood and customer master data features compared to using only the time series features .",
    "all models perform in the same regime measured by the auc score . in total",
    ", the random forest classifier slightly outperforms the other classifiers .    in our future research",
    ", we are planning to investigate the bias in the inspection labels and how to correct it using unsupervised methods .",
    "we believe that bias - free samples of data will allow to train more general and accurate ntl detection models .",
    "e. w. s. dos angelos , o. r. saavedra , o. a. carmona cortes and a. nunes de souza ,  detection and identification of abnormalities in customer consumptions in power distribution systems \" , ieee transactions on power delivery , vol .",
    "4 , pp . 2436 - 2442 , 2011 .",
    "s. s. s. r. depuru , l. wang , v. devabhaktuni and r. c. green ,  high performance computing for detection of electricity theft \" , international journal of electrical power & energy systems , vol .",
    "47 , issue 1 , pp .",
    "21 - 30 , may 2013 .",
    "p. glauner , a. boechat , l. dolberg , r. state , f. bettinger , y. rangoni and d. duarte ,  large - scale detection of non - technical losses in imbalanced data sets \" , accepted at the seventh ieee conference on innovative smart grid technologies ( isgt 2016 ) , 2016 .",
    "p. glauner , a. boechat , j. meira , l. dolberg , r. state , f. bettinger , y. rangoni and d. duarte ,  the challenge of non - technical loss detection using artificial intelligence : a survey \" , submitted to ieee transactions on power systems , arxiv:1606.00626 , 2016 .",
    "j. nagi , k. s. yap , s. k. tiong , s. k. ahmed and m. mohamad ,  nontechnical loss detection for metered customers in power utility using support vector machines \" , ieee transactions on power delivery , vol .",
    "25 , issue 2 , pp .",
    "1162 - 1171 , apr . 2010",
    "c. c. oba ramos , a. nunes de souza , d. sinkiti gastaldello and j. paulo papa ,  identification and feature selection of non - technical losses for industrial consumers using the software weka \" , international conference on industry applications , 2012 .",
    "m. zaharia , m. chowdhury , m. j. franklin , s. shenker and i. stoica ,  spark : cluster computing with working sets \" , hotcloud10 proceedings of the 2nd usenix conference on hot topics in cloud computing , 2010 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> electricity theft is a major problem around the world in both developed and developing countries and may range up to 40% of the total electricity distributed . </S>",
    "<S> more generally , electricity theft belongs to non - technical losses ( ntl ) , which are losses that occur during the distribution of electricity in power grids . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we build features from the neighborhood of customers . </S>",
    "<S> we first split the area in which the customers are located into grids of different sizes . for each grid cell </S>",
    "<S> we then compute the proportion of inspected customers and the proportion of ntl found among the inspected customers . </S>",
    "<S> we then analyze the distributions of features generated and show why they are useful to predict ntl . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we compute features from the consumption time series of customers . we also use master data features of customers , such as their customer class and voltage of their connection . </S>",
    "<S> we compute these features for a big data base of 31 m meter readings , 700k customers and 400k inspection results . </S>",
    "<S> we then use these features to train four machine learning algorithms that are particularly suitable for big data sets because of their parallelizable structure : logistic regression , k - nearest neighbors , linear support vector machine and random forest . using the neighborhood features instead of only analyzing </S>",
    "<S> the time series has resulted in appreciable results for big data sets for varying ntl proportions of 1%-90% . </S>",
    "<S> this work can therefore be deployed to a wide range of different regions around the world .    </S>",
    "<S> data mining , electricity theft detection , feature engineering , feature selection , machine learning , non - technical losses , time series classification . </S>"
  ]
}