{
  "article_text": [
    "recent development in the theory of disease spreading on networks has lead to remarkable success : real time simulation and accurate predictions have become possible @xcite . in these calculations",
    "the input information about the network of social contacts and the temporal behavior is taken from the pre - epidemic period , which may be misleading @xcite as people react to the process , e.g. , by cutting ( at least temporarily ) friendly contacts . while this type of reaction may be crucial from the point of view of spreading and , consequently , of the necessary measures to take ,",
    "its study is very difficult . here",
    "we investigate the simultaneous effect of changing the nature of the relationships and the spreading process on a simple model .",
    "contagion processes , like spreading of diseases , rumours or ideas , are affected by the type of relations between individuals in social networks .",
    "most of research has been devoted to studying the dynamics of spreading processes , on networks with only positive type of interactions ( i.e. friend , trust or collaboration ) @xcite , while in real networks the relations can be negative ( i.e , hostile or distrusting ) .",
    "social networks with both types of relationships can be modelled as signed networks , in which edges are labelled with positive and negative singes @xcite .    in social networks ,",
    "the relationship between two persons can be affected by a third person .",
    "the relationships are balanced if two persons , who are friends , have the same attitude ( friendly or unfriendly ) toward a third one , otherwise in order to decrease tension , one of them must change his / her attitude or they have to stop their friendship .",
    "this concept was introduced for the first time by heider in the framework of the balance theory @xcite .",
    "heider considered triples and defined a triple as unbalanced if the product of its edge signs is negative .",
    "cartwright and harary worked out the mathematics of balance theory @xcite .",
    "they showed that a complete network is structurally balanced if either all the edge signs are positive , or the network can be divided into two clusters such that the signs of edges are positive within each cluster and edges between the clusters have negative signs .",
    "this definition corresponds to the fact that in a balanced state the product of edge sings of each cycle in the network is positive , i.e. , there is no cycle with an odd number of negative edges @xcite .",
    "the presence of cycles with an odd number of negative edges is equivalent to the notion of frustration in spin glasses @xcite .    recently , dynamical models have been introduced to describe the evolution of the network toward a balanced structure @xcite .",
    "it is assumed that if a network is not initially in a balanced structure , the system tends to increase the number of balanced triples by single flipping of the signs of edges and attempts to achieve this way a balanced structure .",
    "thus the rearrangement of positive and negative edges in signed networks aims at minimizing social tension or frustration in the network .",
    "hence signed networks can be studied in the framework of energy landscapes with local minima @xcite .",
    "the configurations of complete graphs with the lowest possible energy are balanced states , in which all pair nodes in the network are friends , or the network is divided into two groups of mutual friends who are unfriendly toward each other . however , due to the local dynamics , the system may get stuck in local minima for large networks .",
    "these are the so - called jammed states , which prevent convergence to the balanced state @xcite .",
    "if a dynamical process , which changes the state of nodes , runs on a signed network , the evolution of edge signs may be affected by the evolution of nodes .",
    "recently much effort has been devoted to studying the co - evolution of edge signs and node states @xcite .",
    "for example , shi et al . studied the evolution of opinions over signed social networks @xcite .",
    "they showed that relative strengths and structures of positive and negative relations have an essential effect on opinion convergence .",
    "ehsani et al . presented a model for diffusion process on signed networks @xcite and showed how balanced clusters can act as obstacles to diffusion process .",
    "furthermore , singh et al . showed that the edge adaptation dynamics according to the hebbian rule , in which strength of edges is evolved in accordance with the dynamical states of nodes , leads an initially unbalanced network to a structurally balanced state @xcite .    in this paper",
    ", we study the interplay of sign evolution of edges and a disease spreading process on a signed network .",
    "we consider the susceptible - infected ( si ) model , as the simplest epidemic model @xcite , on a complete graph . the si model , in which individuals can be in one of susceptible or infected states , represents pathogens , where there is no recovery from the disease and the ill persons remain infecticous .",
    "in a standard network , i.e. a network with only positive type of edges , the si model evolves to a trivial limiting state , in which all individuals are infected .",
    "however , in signed networks , disease propagation is affected by the edge types . in this context negative edges",
    "may mean simply aversion of getting into contact and the idea is that negative edges do not transmit the disease .",
    "the problem becomes nontrivial as there are two parallel dynamics : one for the spreading process and one for achieving structural balance .",
    "we introduce an energy function which describes interrelation between the structural balance and the spreading process .",
    "our approach is based on analysing the total energy - landscape of the model .",
    "we show that unfriendly interactions prevent the spreading of infection over whole network and the existence of these edges can result in several separated , disjunct infected clusters .",
    "in other words , the structure of the network may lead to a self - immunization .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in sec .",
    "ii , we define the si epidemic model on a signed network with two types of connections and present a framework based on energy landscape enabling us to describe balanced configurations . in sec .",
    "we describe the monte - carlo method .",
    "the results of monte - carlo simulations and discussions are presented in sec .",
    "the paper is concluded in sec .  v.",
    "let us consider a complete signed network with @xmath0 nodes .",
    "the nodes represent individuals whose relationships are  friendly  or `` unfriendly '' .",
    "each edge @xmath1 , is labelled with a positive or negative sign , denoted by @xmath2 .",
    "a positive sign represents friendship and negative one shows aversion .",
    "a balanced structure is achieved if the sign of all triples of the network is positive , where sign of a triple @xmath3 is defined as @xmath4 .",
    "we assume that a disease spreads on the signed network following the si model dynamics @xcite .",
    "the state of each node @xmath5 is represented by @xmath6 , which is @xmath7 if the node is susceptible and is @xmath8 if it is infected .",
    "initially , a fraction @xmath9 of nodes is infected . in a signed network ,",
    "transmission of disease through the edges depends on the friendly or unfriendly state of edges .",
    "for simplicity we assume that transmission through unfriendly edges is not possible .",
    "the evolution of the edge signs is governed by a generalized balance criterion , which considers not only the heider condition but also the states of the nodes .",
    "let us describe the co - evolution using the notion of an energy function for the system . a pair connection , i.e. an edge with two end nodes , can be in one of six possible configurations shown in fig .",
    "[ f1 ] , in which solid and dashed edges show friendly and unfriendly relationships , respectively , while filled and open circles correspond to the infected and susceptible states , respectively . among these pair connections , only state ( e ) is effective in spreading of disease .",
    "one can make twenty distinct triples based on these six different configurations for pair connections , as shown in fig.[f2 ] .",
    "a triple is called unbalanced if either has at least one pair connection of type ( e ) or be structurally unbalanced according to heider s rule .    in accordance with heider",
    "s balance theory , the balanced or unbalanced status a triple @xmath3 can be decided by considering the energy contribution @xmath10 , as @xmath11 represents that the triple has an unbalanced ( a balanced ) edge configuration . we define the total energy contribution of the network due to edge signs as the sum of @xmath12 on all triples divided by the total number of triples .",
    "similar to the heider s structural balance theory , we define an energy contribution @xmath13 for each triple , such that @xmath14 determines that a triple is in a node unbalanced ( balanced ) configuration .",
    "that means if for a triple @xmath15 , the node states of the triple are not stable and disease tends to spread from an infected node to its friendly susceptible neighbors .",
    "this occurs if the triple has at least one pair connection of type @xmath16 . by this definition ,",
    "the energy contribution @xmath13 of a triple @xmath3 is given by @xmath17/2.\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] therefore , a balanced or unbalanced state for nodes and edges of a triple is separately determined from @xmath13 and @xmath12 functions . for each triple , nodes ( edges ) are not in a balanced state if @xmath13 ( @xmath12 ) energy function is equal to @xmath18 . hence ,",
    "if at least one of these functions is equal to @xmath18 , the triple is called unbalanced .",
    "we define the total energy @xmath19 of the network as sum of a combination of @xmath13 and @xmath12 over all signed triples , divided by the total number of triples .",
    "@xmath20 represents a fully balanced configuration for the network , while @xmath21 indicates the presence of unbalanced triples . by this definition",
    "the total energy @xmath19 is given by @xmath22/2\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] from an initially random configuration , in which all edges are unfriendly and a small fraction of nodes is infected , the co - evolution is started and the node and edge states change in such a way to reduce the total energy of the system .",
    "we describe the configuration updating procedure in the next section . using the monte - carlo method and energy minimization",
    ", we obtain an energy minimum in which the network is balanced or near - balanced ( jammed state ) .",
    "the rules that govern the evolution of an edge and its end nodes ( a pair connection ) , are presented in fig .",
    "[ f1a ] . each of pair connections , shown in fig .",
    "[ f1 ] , can switch to any other possible one .",
    "the pair connection of type @xmath16 is evolved considering the si disease spreading .",
    "that evolves with probability @xmath23 , if the disease transmits .",
    "however , with probability @xmath24 , only connecting edge can be flipped to the unfriendly type , which prevents disease to spread . in the pair connections , in which the end nodes are in the same state , only the state of connecting edge",
    "can be flipped during co - evolution process .",
    "two - sided arrows show that pair connections can be evolved in both directions .",
    "we start the evolution of the network from an initial state , in which a fraction of nodes is randomly infected .",
    "the fraction of infected nodes at the initial state is denoted by @xmath9 .",
    "we also assume that all edges are initially unfriendly , i.e. @xmath25 for all the triples . in every monte carlo step ,",
    "a pair connection is randomly chosen and evolved to one of corresponding possible configurations , shown in fig .",
    "when a pair connection is changed , the ( balanced / unbalanced ) state of the all triples , which include that pair connection , can also be changed . in each step , we check the total energy from eq .",
    "[ hamiltoni ] . in the case",
    "that the total energy is less than the previous step , the new configuration is accepted . in the case that the energy does nt change ,",
    "the evolution is allowed with probability of @xmath26 .",
    "the process continuous until the network reaches either global minimum ( @xmath20 ) , or a local minimum ( @xmath21 ) , i.e. a jammed state .",
    "we observe that in our model a jammed state can appear in a network of size at least 5 , while in the ordinary balanced theory it was shown that jammed states occur , when @xmath27 and @xmath28 @xcite .",
    "for instance , fig .",
    "[ f5ex ] shows a jammed state with total energy @xmath29 for a network of size @xmath30 .",
    "one can simply show that no change in node and/or edge states , according to fig .",
    "[ f1a ] , can decrease the total energy of the configuration .",
    "fig .  [ f3 ] shows density of jammed states in terms of the fraction of initial infected nodes , @xmath9 , and the probability of infection @xmath23 .",
    "as we can see , the jammed states exist on the interval @xmath31 and @xmath32 .",
    "in other words , for the large values of @xmath33 and the low values of @xmath34 , the system has a global minimum energy . in this case",
    "the network is divided into two groups : one of susceptible and another one of infected nodes , as shown in fig .",
    "[ f4]@xmath35 . within each group ,",
    "the nodes are connected with only the friendly edges while the edges connecting the two groups are unfriendly .    with decreasing of @xmath9 , the density of jammed states increases and the system gets trapped in one of the local energy minima .",
    "in this case the network splits into more than two clusters , each of them being purely susceptible or infected .",
    "fig  .[f4]@xmath36 shows a pattern in which the network is split into two infected clusters and one susceptible one .",
    "also , fig  .[f4]@xmath37 show a pattern for susceptible and infected clusters , emerging for large values of @xmath23 . in fig  .[f4]@xmath38 ,",
    "the density of initial infected nodes is small ( @xmath39 ) and therefore there exists an infected cluster of small size and two larger susceptible clusters , while fig  .[f4]@xmath40 shows clusters for a large value of @xmath41 and there are two infected clusters and one susceptible one .",
    "however , in the all areas of fig  .[f4 ] , due to the balance property , the network self - organizes into stable patterns with a coexistence between infected and healthy nodes , such that disease can not spread any more .",
    "we can also show the propagation of disease in each monte carlo time step .",
    "let s consider a complete network with 40 nodes , in which 15 nodes are infected at the initial time , i.e. @xmath42 . for different values of infection probability @xmath23 , fig .",
    "[ f5 ] shows the density of infected nodes in terms of time steps , averaging over 100 ensembles .",
    "as we see the system achieves a frozen state , where the number of infected nodes remains unchanged and disease spreading is stopped .",
    "the number of infected nodes at a frozen ( jammed ) state , grows with increasing @xmath9 and @xmath23 as is shown in fig .",
    "however , even for large values of @xmath23 , the density of infected nodes is less than 1 and a fraction of nodes remains susceptible . in other words , in the stationary state",
    "a coexistence of infected and susceptible nodes occurs .",
    "as we already mentioned , we assumed that the co - evolution process is initially started from an unbalanced configuration with @xmath43 , in which all edges are unfriendly . in this case , the system achieves the global minimum energy or gets stuck in some local minima ( jammed states ) .",
    "now , let s assume that an initial configuration of friendly and unfriendly edges with @xmath44 , is randomly chosen and the network evolves from this configuration . in this case the system will also reach a jammed state , but we observe that some friendly edges , connecting susceptible and infected clusters , are appeared",
    "such a configuration is shown in fig .",
    "there are two clusters of susceptible and infected nodes . within the clusters ,",
    "nodes are connected with ( blue ) friendly edges . however , there are a number of friendly edges ( shown in red color ) , connecting the two susceptible and infected clusters . in spite of the existence of these friendly edges between susceptible and infected nodes ,",
    "the disease can not spread further since the system is in a local minimum energy .",
    "thus balance theory predicts that the state of individuals and the type of their connections are arranged in such a way that some friendly connections between patients and healthy individuals can be locally stable .",
    "we have extended heider s balance theory to describe co - evolution of a signed network structure and a disease spreading process on the network .",
    "we have considered a complete signed network and defined unbalanced configurations for the triples , where the nodes are in a susceptible or infected state and the edges can be friendly or unfriendly .",
    "we have introduced an energy function , which enables to define a dynamics for the edges and nodes of the network .",
    "the energy of the system is written as a sum of two terms related to the evolution of the edges and nodes . a configuration with the global minimum energy",
    "is called balanced . in this case , there are two clusters of susceptible and infected nodes ; within the clusters nodes are connected by friendly edges , while two clusters are linked to each other only by unfriendly edges .",
    "this arrangement of edges prevents the disease to spread from infected to susceptible nodes . we",
    "have used the monte - carlo method and showed that with starting from an unbalanced configuration , in which all edges are unfriendly , the network may get stuck in one of its local energy minima ( jammed states ) . in this case , more than two clusters of susceptible and infected nodes appear .",
    "moreover , we observed that if the system evolved from an unbalanced configuration with a random arrangement of friendly and unfriendly connections , it will achieve a jammed state in which some friendly edges emerge between susceptible and infected clusters and a coexistence occurs between susceptible and infected nodes in the final , frozen state .    in this work we considered a complete network , in which all nodes are connected to each other .",
    "however more realistic networks are not complete and have inhomogeneities in the degree distribution , small - world property and modular structure .",
    "the study of co - evolution between disease spreading and edge signs , including network properties , is a challenge for future work ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> most studies of disease spreading consider the underlying social network as obtained without the contagion , though epidemic influences people s willingness to contact others : a `` friendly '' contact may be turned to `` unfriendly '' to avoid infection . </S>",
    "<S> we study the susceptible - infected ( si ) disease spreading model on signed networks , in which each edge is associated with a positive or negative sign representing the friendly or unfriendly relation between its end nodes . in a signed network , according to heider s theory , edge signs evolve such that finally a state of structural balance is achieved , corresponding to no frustration in physics terms . </S>",
    "<S> however , the danger of infection affects the evolution of its edge signs . to describe the coupled problem of the sign evolution and disease spreading , </S>",
    "<S> we generalize the notion of structural balance by taking into account the state of the nodes . </S>",
    "<S> we introduce an energy function and carry out monte - carlo simulations on complete networks to test the energy landscape , where we find local minima corresponding to the so called jammed states . in the stationary state , the network is split into balanced clusters of purely susceptible or infected nodes with only friendly edges within the cluster , while edges between clusters are unfriendly and prevent the disease to spread . in this case </S>",
    "<S> , a coexistence occurs between susceptible and infected nodes in the system even for large values of infection rates . </S>"
  ]
}