{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding why galaxies stop forming stars is an important unresolved question in the field of galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "only @xmath010% of baryons reside within galaxies ( e.g. , fukugita & peebles 2004 ; shull et al .",
    "2012 ) , yet since galaxies lie at nodes in the cosmic web corresponding to local minima in the gravitational potential , naively one would expect far more baryons to collate in galaxies , ultimately forming more stars .",
    "theoretical models offer a wide range of solutions to this problem , relying on the physics of gas , stars , and black hole accretion disks as so called ` baryonic feedback ' ( e.g. , cole et al .",
    "2000 ; croton et al .",
    "2006 , bower et al . 2006 , 2008 ; somerville et al . 2008 ; guo et al .",
    "2011 ; vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014a , b ; henriques et al .",
    "2015 ; schaye et al .",
    "2015 ; somerville et al .",
    "however , observational studies are required to test these models and provide evidence for their range and applicability .",
    "observationally , the fraction of quenched ( passive / non - star forming ) galaxies in a given population has been shown to have a strong dependence on galaxy stellar mass ( e.g. , baldry et al .",
    "2006 ; peng et al .",
    "2010 , 2012 ) and galaxy structure , e.g. bulge - to - total light/ mass ratio , @xmath4 , or srsic index , @xmath5 ( e.g. , driver et al . 2006 ; cameron et al . 2009 ; cameron & driver 2009 ; wuyts et al .",
    "2011 ; mendel et al . 2013 ; bluck et al . 2014 ; lang et al . 2014",
    "; omand et al .",
    "2014 ) . additionally , the quenched fraction depends on environment , particularly the surface density of galaxies in a given region of space , the halo mass of the group or cluster , and the distance a galaxy resides at from the centre of its group ( e.g. , balogh et al . 2004 ; van den bosch et al .",
    "2007 , 2008 ; peng et al . 2012",
    "; woo et al .",
    "2013 ; bluck et al .",
    "2014 ) .",
    "it has become evident that understanding quenching processes in galaxies requires separate consideration of central and satellite galaxies , since the mechanisms for quenching star formation in these systems most likely differ ( e.g. , peng et al .",
    "2012 ; woo et al .",
    "2013 ; bluck et al . 2014 ; knobel et al .",
    "central galaxies are most commonly defined as the most massive galaxy in their group or cluster , with satellites being any other group member ( e.g. , yang et al .",
    "2007 , 2009 ) . the dominant galaxy in any given dark matter halo is taken to be the central , so isolated galaxies are considered to be the central galaxy of their group of one .",
    "observationally , satellites in general depend on both intrinsic and environmental parameters for their quenching , whereas centrals depend primarily only on intrinsic properties ( e.g. , peng et al .",
    "2012 ) . in many simulations and models ,",
    "the quenching of central galaxies is governed primarily by agn feedback and the quenching of satellite galaxies is governed primarily by environmental processes , such as , e.g. , strangulation or stripping ( e.g. , guo et al . 2011 ; vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014a , b ; henriques et al . 2015 ; schaye et al .",
    "2015 ; peng et al . 2015 ; somerville et al . 2015 ) .",
    "more recent work has linked the quenched ( or red ) fraction of large populations of galaxies to the central density within 1 kpc ( cheung et al .",
    "2012 , fang et al .",
    "2013 , woo et al .",
    "2015 ) , the central velocity dispersion ( wake et al .",
    "2012 ) , and to the mass of the galactic bulge ( bluck et al .",
    "2014 , lang et al .",
    "2014 , omand et al .",
    "2014 ) . an artificial neural network ( ann ) analysis performed by teimoorinia , bluck & ellison ( 2016 ) established that for central galaxies the most accurate predictions for whether a galaxy will be star forming or not are given by central velocity dispersion , which outperforms all other variables considered , including bulge mass , stellar mass and halo mass .",
    "all of these inner - region galaxy properties are expected to correlate strongly with the mass of the central black hole ( e.g. , magorrian et al .",
    "1998 ; gebhardt et al .",
    "2000 ; ferrarese & merritt 2000 , haring & rix 2004 , mcconnell et al . 2011 ; mcconnell & ma 2013 ; saglia et al .",
    "2016 ) and hence may provide qualitative support for the agn feedback driven quenching paradigm .",
    "however , it is certainly conceivable that other quenching processes could give rise to these trends without agn feedback .",
    "since the idea that most galaxies contain a supermassive black hole was first suggested ( e.g. , kormendy & richstone 1995 ) , the energy released from forming these objects has become a popular mechanism for regulating gas flows and star formation in simulations , particularly for massive galaxies ( e.g. , croton et al .",
    "2006 ; bower et al . 2006 , 2008 ; somerville et al . 2008 ; guo et al . 2011 ; vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014a , b ; henriques et al . 2015",
    "; schaye et al .",
    "in fact , substantial feedback from accretion around supermassive black holes is required in cosmological semi - analytic models , semi - empirical models , and hydrodynamical simulations to achieve the steep slope of the high - mass end of the galaxy stellar mass function ( e.g. , vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014a , b ; henriques et al . 2015",
    "; schaye et al . 2015 ) .",
    "observationally , direct measurements of agn driven winds in galaxies and radio jet induced bubbles in galaxy haloes have provided evidence for the mechanisms by which agn feedback can affect galaxies , but typically only for a very small number of galaxies ( e.g. , mcnamara et al . 2000 ; nulsen et al .",
    "2005 ; mcnamara et al .",
    "2007 ; dunn et al .",
    "2010 ; fabian 2012 ; cicone et al . 2013 ; liu et al . 2013 ; harrison et al .",
    "2014 , 2016 ) . hence ,",
    "whether or not agn feedback actually quenches galaxies in statistically significant numbers remains an open question .",
    "alternatives to agn feedback driven quenching of central galaxies do exist in the theoretical literature , and there is some observational support for these as well .",
    "virial shock heating of gas in haloes above some critical dark matter halo mass ( @xmath6 ) can lead to a stifling of gas supply and hence an eventual shutting off of star formation in galaxies ( e.g. , dekel & birnboim 2006 ; dekel et al .",
    "2009 ; dekel et al .",
    "recent observations suggest that halo mass is more constraining of the quenched fraction of centrals than stellar mass , qualitatively in line with this view ( e.g. , woo et al .",
    "2013 ) . however , the stronger dependence of central galaxy quenching on bulge mass and central density ( e.g. , bluck et al .",
    "2014 , woo et al .",
    "2015 ) imply that this can not be the sole , or dominant , route to quenching centrals .",
    "further to this , elevated gas depletion and supernovae feedback in galaxy mergers , and the growth of the central potential and its stabilizing influence on giant molecular cloud collapse , have both been evoked as potential alternatives to the more commonly utilised agn feedback ( e.g. , martig et al .",
    "2009 ; darg et al .",
    "2010 ; moreno et al .",
    "2013 ) . to fully distinguish between these various processes careful comparison of observational data to simulations and models must be made .",
    "satellites are potentially subject to a wide range of additional physical processes for quenching than centrals , resulting from their relative motion across the hot gas halo , and their increased group potential , and galaxy - galaxy , tidal interactions .",
    "processes such as ram pressure stripping , harassment , strangulation from removal of the satellites hot gas halo , and pre - processing in groups prior to the cluster environment can all lead to a removal of gas or gas supply and hence a reduction and eventual cessation of star formation ( e.g. , balogh et al .",
    "2004 ; cortese et al . 2006 ; font et al . 2008 ; tasca et al . 2009 ; peng et al .",
    "2012 ; hirschmann et al .",
    "2013 ; wetzel et al .",
    "2013 ) . additionally ,",
    "if a central galaxy enters a group or cluster environment for the first time , transitioning to becoming a satellite , it will no longer reside at a local gravitational minimum in the cosmic web .",
    "thus , cold gas streams will no longer feed the new satellite galaxy and hence this will also contribute to its star formation quenching ( e.g. , guo et al .",
    "2011 ; henriques et al .",
    "it is important to stress that all of these environmentally dependent quenching processes work in addition to the mass - correlating quenching associated with centrals , and thus that we might expect to see evidence for two distinct regimes in satellite quenching , one where environment dominates and one where internal properties dominate .    in bluck",
    "( 2014 ) we conclude that ` bulge mass is king ' in the sense that bulge mass is a tighter and steeper correlator to the quenched fraction for centrals than stellar mass , halo mass , disk mass , local galaxy density , and galactic structure ( @xmath4 ) . for a smaller list of variables ( not including bulge or halo mass ) wake et al .",
    "( 2012 ) established that central velocity dispersion outperforms stellar mass , morphology and environment in constraining the quenching of a general population of local galaxies .",
    "recently , teimoorinia , bluck & ellison ( 2016 ) found strong evidence from an ann technique that central velocity dispersion is the best single variable for parameterizing the quenching of centrals , improving upon even bulge mass",
    ". additionally , cheung et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , fang et al .",
    "( 2013 ) and woo et al .",
    "( 2015 ) find strong evidence for the central stellar mass density within 1 kpc being a particularly tight correlator to the quenched fraction .",
    "this quantity is also demonstrated to scale tightly with both bulge mass and central velocity dispersion . taken together , it is clear that a high central mass concentration and hence central velocity dispersion is a prerequisite for quenching central galaxies .",
    "the primary motivation for this paper is to expand on the work of wake et al .",
    "( 2012 ) , bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 ) and teimoorinia et al .",
    "( 2016 ) by investigating the impact on the quenched fraction of central and satellites galaxies from varying galaxy and environmental properties at fixed central velocity dispersion . for centrals ,",
    "this allows us to look for additional dependencies of quenching , whilst controlling for the parameter which matters most statistically . for satellites , fixing the central velocity dispersion allows us to effectively control for the most important intrinsic parameter before studying the impact of environment on these systems .",
    "we then compare these results to a cosmological hydrodynamical simulation ( illustris , vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014a , b ) and a semi - analytic model ( the munich model of galaxy formation : l - galaxies , henriques et al .",
    "2015 ) , to gain insight into the possible physical processes responsible for our observed results .",
    "the paper is structured as follows .",
    "we give a review of our data sources and measurements in section 2 , and define our quenched fraction method in section 3 . in section 4",
    "we give a brief overview of our results .",
    "section 5 presents our results for central galaxies , including a new method for ascertaining the statistical influence on the quenched fraction of varying a given galaxy property at fixed other galaxy properties .",
    "we discuss the possible interpretations of our results for centrals in section 6 , and make a detailed comparison to a cosmological simulation and a semi - analytic model .",
    "in section 7 we present our results for satellites and compare them to the centrals .",
    "we conclude in section 8 .",
    "we also include two appendices , the first giving an example of our area statistics approach ( appendix a ) and the second showing the stability of our results to different scaling laws ( appendix b ) . throughout the paper we assume a @xmath7cdm cosmology with h@xmath8 = 70 km s@xmath9 mpc@xmath9 , @xmath10 = 0.3 , @xmath11 = 0.7 , and adopt ab magnitude units .",
    "we use the sloan digital sky survey data release 7 ( sdss dr7 , abazajian et al .",
    "2009 ) spectroscopic sample as our data source .",
    "from this we collate a sample of 538046 galaxies ( 423480 centrals and 114566 satellites ) with @xmath12 at z @xmath13 0.2 . in this paper",
    "we investigate the star forming properties of central and satellite galaxies , as a function of various galaxy and environmental properties .",
    "the essential details of these parameters are outlined in this section ( but see bluck et al .",
    "2014 for a more detailed account ) .",
    "star formation rates ( sfr ) are calculated from extinction corrected emission lines ( h@xmath14 , h@xmath15 , [ nii ] , [ oiii ] ) for non - agn star forming galaxies and from the strength of the 4000  break for non - emission line galaxies and agn ( brinchmann et al .",
    "2004 ) . to use the emission line method ,",
    "the strength of each of the bpt ( baldwin , phillips & terlevich 1981 ) lines must have an s / n @xmath16 3 and additionally galaxies must not be identified as agn via the kauffmann et al .",
    "( 2003 ) line ratio cut .",
    "a fibre correction is applied based on galaxy colour and magnitude outside the aperture .",
    "this is the same sample of sfrs used in many recent quenching papers ( e.g. , woo et al .",
    "2013 ; bluck et al .",
    "2014 ; woo et al .",
    "2015 ; teimoorinia et al .",
    "all of the results and conclusions of this work are recovered qualitatively even if we use photometric sfrs from sed fitting , or construct the analogous red fraction instead of the quenched fraction from star formation rates .",
    "this implies that the aperture corrections are not unduly biasing our results on quenching for centrals and satellites , since the photometric techniques do not depend on them .",
    "the stellar masses for the galaxies , and their component disks and spheroids , are derived in mendel et al .",
    "( 2014 ) , based on sed fitting to a dual srsic fit of the @xmath17 wavebands ( simard et al .",
    "an @xmath18 = 4 bulge and @xmath18 = 1 disk model is used , and we test the reliability of this approach in mendel et al .",
    "( 2014 ) and bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 ) via model data .",
    "we define the galaxy structure ( or morphology ) to be the bulge - to - total stellar mass ratio : @xmath19 , where @xmath20 is the total stellar mass of the galaxy ( defined as @xmath21 ) .",
    "similarly , disk - to - total stellar mass ratio is defined as : @xmath22 .",
    "velocity dispersions are derived from broadened template fits to the widths of absorption lines taken from bernardi et al .",
    "( 2003 ) with an updated method implemented as in bernardi et al .",
    "( 2007 ) to the later data releases .",
    "we use the princeton velocity dispersion measurements as opposed to the sdss pipeline ( e.g. , bolton et al .",
    "2012 ) because the latter restricts the sample to early - type spectra and the former does not .",
    "velocity dispersions from absorption lines with a s / n @xmath13 3.5 are discarded from our sample , and those with @xmath23 @xmath13 70 km / s are removed from most analyses , due to the instrumental resolution of the sdss spectra .",
    "we also restrict our final sample to galaxies with an error on the velocity dispersion of @xmath24 @xmath13 35 km / s .",
    "@xmath0 80 % of our parent sample pass these data quality cuts . to avoid biasing the sample by removal of galaxies without substantial bulge components , we allow the low velocity dispersions to re - enter some of our analyses as ` low ' values , where we incorporate only the minimal information that there is a low velocity dispersion and do not utilise their specific values for any purpose . for these analyses , we set all velocity dispersions less than 70 km / s equal to 50 km / s , allowing us to retain the information that they are low without inferring anything about their specific values .    for the measured velocity dispersions , we first make an aperture correction , so that all measurements are made at the same effective aperture .",
    "we use the formula in jorgensen et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , specifically calculating the centralised velocity dispersion as :    @xmath25    where @xmath26 is the velocity dispersion measured within the aperture , @xmath27 is the aperture radius , and @xmath28 is the effective radius of the bulge or spheroid ( taken from the morphological catalogues of simard et al .",
    "the factor of 1/8 is chosen to be in line with the measurements made in the literature .",
    "we note that the aperture correction only affects the final estimate of the central velocity dispersion by typically @xmath1310% .",
    "to combat the effect of kinematic contamination on velocity dispersion measurements from disk rotation into the plane of the sky , we restrict all late type galaxies ( ltgs , @xmath29 ) to be face - on ( b / a @xmath16 0.9 ) for the remainder of the paper ( although see appendix b where we relax this criterion ) .",
    "however , this introduces a bias whereby there are far fewer ltgs in our sample relative to early type galaxies ( etgs , @xmath30 ) , which will affect the ratio of star forming to passive systems . to counter this , we weight each galaxy by the inverse of the probability of its inclusion in the sample .",
    "specifically , we calculate a weight :    @xmath31    where @xmath32 is the fraction of galaxies removed due to our axis ratio cut at the @xmath4 value of each galaxy . for ltgs",
    "this varies as a function of morphology , but for etgs it is equal to one due to the fact that we do not cull etgs from our sample .",
    "this weight is then multiplied by @xmath33 and used as a new weight for computing each statistic in our analysis , e.g. for the quenched fractions ( see section 3 ) .",
    "none of our results or conclusions are strongly affected by restricting to face - on ltgs and weighting ( see appendix b ) .",
    "however , we use this technique as a conservative approach for incorporating velocity dispersions into our analysis , and using these to estimate black hole masses for disk - dominated galaxies , when comparing to models in section 6 . the mean bulge fraction in the fibre for etgs",
    "is @xmath34 , indicating that no restriction in their orientation is needed to first order , which also aids our analysis by leaving a substantial number of galaxies to perform our statistics on .",
    "we consider several measurements of environment in this paper , including halo mass , group/ cluster - centric distance , satellite - halo mass ratio and local ( over)-density .",
    "the halo masses are derived from an abundance matching technique applied to the total stellar mass of the group or cluster ( from yang et al .",
    "2007 , 2008 , 2009 ) .",
    "testing of the group finding algorithm on model galaxies from the millennium simulation ( springel et al .",
    "2005 ) showed that over 90% of galaxies are correctly assigned to groups at @xmath35 .",
    "using these group catalogues , centrals are defined as the most massive galaxy in the group , with satellites being any other group member . the projected distance of each satellite to its central galaxy , in units of the virial radius , is used as another environmental metric in this work ( defined as : @xmath36 ) .",
    "where @xmath37 is the projected distance to the central , and @xmath38 is the virial radius .",
    "we define the mass ratio :    @xmath39    which indicates the relative mass of the satellite to the halo , and hence is a measure of how major or minor a component of the group or cluster the satellite is .",
    "we also use measurements of the the normalised surface galaxy density ( based on measurements in baldry et al .",
    "over - densities are computed as :    @xmath40    where    @xmath41    where @xmath42 is the projected distance to the nth nearest neighbour , and @xmath43 is the mean value of the density parameter at each 0.01 redshift slice , which normalises the the density parameter accounting for the flux limit of the sdss .",
    "full details on the observational data and measurements used in this paper are given in the prior works of this series , bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 ) and teimoorinia et al .",
    "in addition to the sdss observations , we also compare to the illustris simulation ( vogelsberger et al .",
    "2014a , b ) and to the latest version of the munich model of galaxy formation ( l - galaxies , henriques et al .",
    "we select the output galaxy catalogues at z = 0.1 ( equivalent to the median redshift in our observations ) and take all measurements ( e.g. , stellar , halo and black hole mass and star formation rate ) from these public catalogues .",
    "more details on the simulations are provided in section 6.1 .",
    "we follow the prescription for defining the quenched ( or passive ) fraction in bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 ) and teimoorinia , bluck & ellison ( 2016 ) .",
    "a galaxy is defined to be passive if it is forming stars at a rate at least a factor of ten times lower than ( emission line , non - agn ) star forming galaxies , matched at the same stellar mass and redshift .",
    "we start by defining the main sequence as the @xmath44 relation for star forming galaxies .",
    "star forming galaxies are defined observationally as emission line galaxies ( with s / n @xmath16 5 ) , which are furthermore not identified as agn by the kauffmann et al .",
    "( 2003 ) line cut on the baldwin , phillips & terlevich ( 1981 , bpt ) emission line diagnostic plot .",
    "this relationship is shown for our sample in fig .",
    "5 of bluck et al .",
    "we then determine the logarithmic distance each galaxy in the sdss resides at from the star forming main sequence , computing :    @xmath45    where sfr@xmath46 indicates the star formation rate of main sequence star forming galaxies matched by stellar mass and redshift for each galaxy in the full sdss sample .",
    "matching thresholds are set to 0.1 dex for stellar mass and 0.005 for redshift .",
    "typically @xmath16 200 star forming ` controls ' are found for each galaxy , and only a few percent require a broadening of these thresholds to find at least ten matches .",
    "the star forming main sequence and the distribution in the @xmath47sfr statistic are shown in fig",
    "a threshold of @xmath47sfr @xmath13 -1 cleanly divides the star forming and passive peak ( see fig .",
    "1 , right panel ) . furthermore , we emphasise here that our results are not sensitive to the exact location of the cut .",
    "varying the @xmath47sfr threshold anywhere throughout the green valley region ( @xmath48 , indicated in green in fig .",
    "1 right panel ) leads to almost identical results , and no change in the conclusions of this work .",
    "the quenched fraction is then defined as the ratio of quenched - to - total galaxies in each binning of galaxy or environmental parameters .",
    "we correct for the flux limits of the sdss by weighting each galaxy in the quenched fraction by the inverse of the volume over which its @xmath17 magnitudes would pass all of the selection criteria ( @xmath49 ) , which varies as a function of stellar mass and colour ( see mendel et al .",
    "specifically we calculate :    @xmath50}{(w_{i}/v_{{\\rm max } , i } ) [ { \\rm all } ] } \\bigg ) \\hspace{0.3 cm } , \\ ] ]    where @xmath51 is the weighting from the inclination cut , given by eq .",
    "the errors on the quenched fraction are computed in this work via the jack - knife technique , as in bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 ) , which we find to give comparable results to a full monte carlo implementation taking into account the errors on all galaxy properties . in general , both of these more sophisticated techniques",
    "lead to a larger total error on average than in the simple poisson statistics case .",
    "see bluck et al .",
    "( 2014 )  2 & 3 for full details on these data and techniques .    for comparison to simulations and models",
    "later in the paper , we define a simplified version of our quenched fraction criterion .",
    "in general , the models do not have reliable enough information on emission lines to construct the main sequence identically to how we proceed with the observational data ( outlined above ) .",
    "thus , we must construct an alternative method .",
    "it is common in the literature for such comparisons to be made at fixed ssfr (= @xmath52 ) .",
    "however , given that the normalisation of the main sequence varies from model to model , this is not an ideal way to define the main sequence and hence quenched fraction , and can lead to systematic error in the quenched fraction dependence on galaxy properties .    in fig",
    ". 1 ( left panel ) we show the median relationship of sfr with stellar mass ( green line ) , and note that this is very close to a straight line at @xmath53 . as such",
    ", we construct a linear fit to the median main sequence relation at low masses ( shown as a blue dashed line ) .",
    "this method relies on the fact that the median galaxy at low masses resides on the star forming main sequence , which is reasonable .",
    "the linear fit goes cleanly through the centre of the density contours of the star forming main sequence , indicating that it is indeed a successful approach for defining the main sequence , in lieu of more sophisticated emission line diagnostics .",
    "we then define galaxies to be quenched exactly as before , i.e. if they lie one order of magnitude or greater below the main sequence ( @xmath47sfr @xmath13 -1 , indicated by a red dashed line in fig . 1 left panel ) .",
    "all of our observational results are identical if we use either method to define quenched galaxies , once care is taken to perform this at each redshift slice separately .",
    "thus , the rendering in fig .",
    "1 shows a schematic only of the method .",
    "we use this simplified approach for the simulated and model data ( which are taken at a fixed redshift slice ) , avoiding complicated issues of emission line diagnostics in the models .",
    "error on the quenched fraction is computed via the jack - knife technique in each binning , and shown as the shaded region for each sub - sample .",
    "central galaxies are taken to be the most massive members of their groups or clusters , with satellites being any other group member .",
    "inner satellites are defined as satellites within 0.1 virial radii ( projected ) of their central . at a fixed @xmath1 ,",
    "satellites are more frequently quenched than centrals , with inner satellites being more frequently quenched than the general satellite population .",
    "this effect is much more pronounced at low @xmath1 , and disappears entirely at @xmath54 km / s.,scaledwidth=49.0% ]",
    "recent observations have established that the quenched ( or red ) fraction of central galaxies is most tightly correlated with the inner regions of these galaxies , e.g. , surface mass density within 1 kpc , bulge mass or central velocity dispersion ( cheung et al . 2012 ; wake et al .",
    "2012 ; fang et al . 2013 ; bluck et al . 2014 ; lang et al . 2014 ; omand et al .",
    "2014 ; woo et al .",
    "teimoorinia et al . (",
    "2016 ) found strong evidence from an ann analysis that central velocity dispersion is the most predictive , and hence most tightly constraining , observable for central galaxy quenching out of the following list of variables : stellar , halo , bulge and disk mass ; local galaxy density and galactic structure ( @xmath4 ) .",
    "moreover central velocity dispersion is found to be tightly correlated with surface mass density within 1 kpc . in this work we concentrate on central velocity dispersion because it is more responsive to differences in the structural properties of host galaxies and furthermore has better calibrated empirical relationships with dynamically measured black hole mass ( e.g. , saglia et al .",
    "2016 ) . throughout the results sections we explore the quenched fraction dependence on various galaxy and environmental parameters , at a fixed central velocity dispersion , for central and satellite galaxies .",
    "the aim of this approach is to establish to what extent other parameters affect central and satellite galaxy quenching , in what manner ( i.e. do they lead to positive or negative correlations at fixed @xmath1 ? ) , and ultimately compare the observational results to predictions from contemporary simulations and models ( in section 6 ) .      in fig .",
    "2 we show the quenched fraction relationship with central velocity dispersion , for central , satellite and inner satellite galaxies .",
    "centrals are defined as the most massive galaxy in the group , according to the sdss group catalogues of yang et al .",
    "( 2007 , 2009 ) .",
    "satellites are any other group members , with inner satellites being satellites found within 0.1 virial radii ( projected ) .",
    "this plot may be compared to the differences between central and satellite galaxies at fixed @xmath20 , @xmath4 and @xmath55 shown in bluck et al .",
    "the grey region indicates @xmath56 km / s , which is approximately the instrumental resolution of the sdss spectrograph .",
    "it is clear that there is a strong dependence of central galaxy quenching on central velocity dispersion , with a progressively weaker dependence for satellites and inner satellites . at a fixed @xmath1 ,",
    "satellites are in general more frequently passive than centrals , and inner satellites are more frequently passive than the general satellite population .",
    "this effect is significantly more pronounced at low central velocity dispersions , and disappears entirely by @xmath54 km / s .",
    "central galaxies have a 50% chance of being quenched at an average central velocity dispersion of @xmath57 , with satellites achieving a 50% quenched fraction at a significantly lower central velocity dispersion of @xmath58 .",
    "interestingly , inner satellites are always more than 50% quenched in every central velocity dispersion range we consider , down to at least the spectroscopic resolution of @xmath0 70 km / s .",
    "the higher frequency of quenched satellite and inner satellite galaxies at low central velocity dispersions , relative to centrals , suggests that environmental processes are important in the quenching of these systems ( as argued for in , e.g. , van den bosch et al .",
    "2008 ; baldry et al . 2008 ; peng et al .",
    "2010 , 2012 ) . for centrals ,",
    "the very low fraction of quenched systems at low central velocity dispersion , and steep rise in probability of being quenched out to higher central velocity dispersions , is qualitatively consistent with quenching from agn feedback ( in either the radio or quasar mode , e.g. croton et al .",
    "2006 ; hopkins et a. 2008 ) .",
    "this is due to the observed @xmath59 relation ( e.g. , mcconnell & ma 2013 ; saglia et al .",
    "2016 ) , and the strong dependence of agn driven quenching on supermassive black hole mass in most models ( e.g. , henriques et al . 2015",
    "; schaye et al .",
    "however , given the many inter - correlations between galaxy properties , it is not yet established which , if any , galaxy property is truly fundamental to central galaxy quenching , and hence which physical mechanism(s ) are the most probable cause .    due to the observed differences in the quenched fraction relation with central velocity dispersion between central and satellite galaxies ,",
    "we consider each of these populations separately throughout our analyses in the following results sections .",
    "correlation does not imply causation ; thus , we must be cautious of claiming a physical connection between central velocity dispersion and the quenching of central galaxies .",
    "one simple test is to determine whether or not the @xmath3 relation is still evident when other galaxy properties are held constant , and additionally to explore the corollary , of whether or not , e.g. , the @xmath60 , @xmath55 and @xmath4 relations are still evident when @xmath1 is held constant . the left column of fig .",
    "3 shows the @xmath3 relation for central galaxies , in fixed ranges of ( from top to bottom ) : @xmath55 , @xmath20 and @xmath4 .",
    "varying the halo mass or stellar mass of galaxies at constant central velocity dispersion ( by even three orders of magnitude ) has very little impact of the fraction of quenched galaxies .",
    "furthermore , the @xmath3 relationships at fixed ranges in stellar or halo mass ( shown as coloured lines , labelled by the colour bar ) are almost identical to the unbinned relationship ( shown in black ) .",
    "@xmath4 , on the other hand , does lead to a significant impact on the fraction of quenched galaxies at a fixed @xmath1 ( bottom left panel ) .",
    "this notwithstanding , the @xmath3 relation does remain evident and steep , even for a constant range in galaxy structure ( @xmath4 ) .    the right column of fig .",
    "3 shows ( from top to bottom ) the relationship between quenched fraction and halo mass , stellar mass and @xmath4 structure .",
    "the unbinned relations are shown in black and the relations at constant central velocity dispersion are shown in varying colours ( labelled by the colour bar ) . for both halo and stellar mass , the positive relationship with quenched fraction in the unbinned case",
    "is entirely transformed when binned by central velocity dispersion .",
    "there is in fact no evidence for a positive correlation between the fraction of quenched centrals and their total stellar mass or the mass of their dark matter haloes , at constant central velocity dispersion .",
    "moreover , in some @xmath1 ranges there is even evidence for an anti - correlation between quenched fraction and mass in stars or halo .",
    "thus , it is highly unlikely that either halo mass or stellar mass can be causally related to the quenching of central galaxies , given that their correlations with the quenched fraction are entirely dependent on a third quantity , namely central velocity dispersion .    in the bottom right panel of fig .",
    "3 , we find a residual dependence of quenched fraction on @xmath4 structure , even at fixed central velocity dispersion",
    ". however , this is mostly evident at low @xmath4 and at low central velocity dispersion , where our measurements of the pressure supported kinematics are most uncertain .",
    "furthermore , the effect on the quenched fraction of varying @xmath1 at fixed @xmath4 ( bottom right ) is significantly larger than the other way around ( bottom left ) .",
    "thus , both @xmath4 and @xmath1 affect the quenched fraction of central galaxies at fixed values of the other parameter , but @xmath1 has a larger impact on quenching than @xmath4 .",
    "we discuss the possible meaning of these results in the discussion , including a comparison to simulations ( see section 6 ) .        in the previous sub - section",
    "we investigate the @xmath3 relationship at fixed values of several other galaxy properties , and make some general inferences from the structure of these plots .",
    "however , it is desirable to be more quantitative about this process . one potential issue with the fixed variable approach of  5.1 is how to choose the range in each parameter to set fixed .",
    "we solve this issue here by first binning the data by one variable ( e.g. , @xmath1 ) and then sorting the data by a secondary variable ( e.g. , @xmath55 ) .",
    "we then construct the weighted quenched fraction for percentile ranges of the second variable at each bin in the first variable .",
    "for example , for our fiducial definition ( @xmath61 ) we compute the area contained within the passive fraction computed for upper and lower 50% of the data in the secondary variable , for each value of the primary variable .",
    "this requires no a priori bin structure , and moreover always utilises 100% of the data available in assessing the quenched fraction dependence , i.e. it is much less sensitive to outliers than the fixed binning approach where some bins may contain only a few percent of the data .",
    "another weakness of the qualitative approach of  5.1 is that we can identify which parameter is more important to quenching , but not by how much or at what confidence level .",
    "to combat this we use our new percentile range quenched fraction plots to construct two new statistics .",
    "first , we define the area contained within the quenched fraction relationship between upper and lower percentile ranges as :    @xmath62    where @xmath14 indicates the primary variable ( i.e. the x - axis of the quenched fraction plot ) and @xmath15 indicates the secondary variable , i.e. the variable we sort by to obtain the percentile ranges of the quenched fraction , @xmath63 ( which we have abbreviated from @xmath2 ) .",
    "for example , in the top left plot of fig . 4 , @xmath64 and @xmath65 .",
    "the top right plot swaps these variables around . a larger area for varying @xmath15 at fixed @xmath14 than the other way around indicates that variable @xmath15 is more constraining of the quenched fraction than variable @xmath14 .",
    "the error on the area statistic is computed by adding in quadrature the positive and negative errors on the upper and lower percentile range ( respectively ) , which are themselves constructed by convolving the jack - knife 1 @xmath23 statistical error on each binning over the full range in the primary variable ( @xmath66 ) .",
    "note that the areas are defined to be positive due to the modulus in the definition .",
    "thus , they give a prescription for ascertaining which parameter out of a set of two is more constraining of the quenched fraction , but they do not determine whether the impact on the quenched fraction is positive or negative . in all plots and tables",
    "the area statistics are quoted for upper and lower 50% binnings , i.e. it is in effect @xmath61 which we show .",
    "we recover qualitatively similar results for all reasonable definitions , e.g. upper and lower 25% which is shown as a light shaded region on each area statistic plot ( see , e.g. , fig . 4 & 5 ) .",
    "we define another statistic which is sensitive to the directionality of the dependence ( i.e. whether increasing a given parameter at fixed values of another parameter increases or decreases the quenched fraction ) .",
    "this statistic is weighted by the number of data points in each range .",
    "thus , we define the weighted average difference as :    @xmath67    where @xmath14 and @xmath15 are defined as before , and @xmath68 is the number of galaxies in each @xmath14-binning .",
    "note that this statistic can be positive or negative , depending upon how variable @xmath15 impacts the quenched fraction at fixed values of variable @xmath14 .",
    "the errors on @xmath69 are computed in exact analogy to the errors on the area statistic .",
    "the area statistic can be used to determine which variable leads to the tighter quenched fraction relationship for each row in the area plots ( e.g. , figs .",
    "4 & 5 ) , and the weighted average difference gives the directionality of the trend ( positive or negative ) .",
    "as with the area statistic , all average differences are quoted for upper and lower 50% of the secondary variable across the range in the primary variable .    in appendix a a set of examples are given , demonstrating how the area statistics approach works on simulated data .",
    "this is intended to build intuition with the approach , and we recommend reading this appendix before continuing with the results sections . at this point",
    "we reintroduce the observational data , and construct areas and average differences for a number of interesting physical parameter pairings for centrals .                                  in fig .",
    "4 we reproduce our results in fig . 3 for the area statistics approach ( see above and appendix a ) .",
    "the left column shows the @xmath3 relation , split by percentile ranges in ( from top to bottom ) : halo mass , stellar mass and @xmath4 structure . the right hand column shows the quenched fraction relationship with ( from top to bottom ) : halo mass , stellar mass and @xmath4 structure , each split by percentile ranges in @xmath1 .",
    "this plot should be read by rows .",
    "the solid red and blue shaded regions represent upper and lower 50% of the data in the @xmath15-variable , respectively ( see eqs .",
    "8 & 9 ) , with the semi - transparent shading indicating the upper and lower 25% of the data in the @xmath15-variable .",
    "the areas are considerably smaller for parameterizing quenching as a function of central velocity dispersion than for stellar mass , halo mass or @xmath4 .",
    "this indicates that quenching depends more fundamentally on central velocity dispersion than any of these alternatives , for central galaxies . additionally , the average difference is always positive for varying the central velocity dispersion at fixed other galaxy properties .",
    "these results are highly significant , typically @xmath16 4 @xmath23 , where the error is constructed by convolving the individual jack - knife error on each bin and adding in quadrature the positive and negative contributions ( for red and blue shadings , respectively ) .    in fig .",
    "5 we investigate three more cases : bulge mass , disk mass and overdensity at the 5th nearest neighbour ( @xmath70 ) . here",
    "again we find by far the smallest areas for central velocity dispersion acting as the primary variable , than for any of the other cases .",
    "central velocity dispersion performs significantly better than even bulge mass ( top row ) , which was previously found to outperform the rest of the variables considered in this work ( bluck et al .",
    "the case of disk mass is especially interesting , because increasing its value at fixed central velocity dispersion lowers the quenched fraction , and furthermore leads to the highest area at fixed central velocity dispersion from this set of variables .",
    "this also explains the slight negative trend seen with stellar mass , and ( at least partially ) the positive trend seen with @xmath4 . whilst the dominant correlator to the quenched fraction , @xmath1 , drives quenching ( i.e.",
    ", always leads to positive increases of the quenched fraction at fixed other galaxy properties ) , information about the disk structure in some sense ` resists ' quenching .",
    "given that disk mass and @xmath71 (= 1 - @xmath4 ) correlates with gas mass and gas fraction ( e.g. , saintonge et al .",
    "2011 ; maddox et al .",
    "2015 ) , it is likely that these variables give information on what remains to be quenched in a given galaxy , and hence how much work must be done to quench it .",
    "alternatively , central velocity dispersion ( which is known to correlate strongly with dynamically measured @xmath72 ) likely gives information regarding the available energy to do work quenching the system .",
    "in any case , if the quenching of central galaxies is to be parameterized by a single variable , central velocity dispersion is by far the best choice out of our set of parameters ( in agreement with a complementary analysis via artificial neural networks performed in teimoorinia , bluck & ellison 2016 , and also in agreement with a smaller set of comparisons made in wake et al .",
    "the results for all areas and average differences in the quenched fraction , for each combination considered here , are presented in table 1 .",
    "we discuss the possible meaning of these results further in the discussion ( section 6 ) .",
    ".summary of area and mean difference statistics for centrals ( taken from figs . 4 & 5 . ) [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     note : @xmath14 and @xmath15 are defined as in eqs .",
    "8 & 9 , they correspond to the x - axis variable and the percentile ( colour ) variable in fig .",
    "13 , respectively .",
    "in this paper , we explore the dependence of central and satellite galaxy quenching on a variety of physical galaxy and environmental properties .",
    "we start with a sample of @xmath0 half a million sdss galaxies ( 80% centrals and 20% satellites ) at z @xmath13 0.2 .",
    "we quantify the quenched fraction dependence on galaxy properties at fixed central velocity dispersion , which has previously been found to be the tightest correlator to quenching for central galaxies ( teimoorinia , bluck & ellison 2016 ) .    at a fixed central velocity dispersion , we find that satellite galaxies are more frequently quenched than central galaxies , with inner satellites ( within 0.1 virial radii of their centrals ) being more frequently quenched than the general satellite population ( see fig .",
    "this effect is more pronounced at lower central velocity dispersions and disappears entirely by @xmath73 250 km / s .",
    "furthermore , the @xmath3 relationship is steep for centrals , varying from @xmath0 0.05  0.95 across the range we probe , and progressively less steep for satellites and inner satellites .",
    "qualitatively , this result is consistent with central galaxies being quenched by agn feedback , given the tight observed relationships between central velocity dispersion and black hole mass , and the dependence of agn - driven quenching on black hole mass in simulations and models .",
    "however , the quenching of satellites and inner satellites can not be driven by agn feedback at low central velocity dispersion , suggesting that other ( most probably environmental ) processes must be important in their quenching when they depart from centrals at low masses .    for central galaxies ,",
    "we confirm the prior result that central velocity dispersion is more predictive of quenching than any of the following properties : stellar mass , halo mass , bulge mass , disk mass , @xmath4 structure and local density ( @xmath70 ) , e.g. wake et al .",
    "( 2012 ) ; teimoorinia et al .",
    "moreover , we find that varying stellar , halo or bulge mass or local density ( by even three orders of magnitude ) has little if any effect on the quenched fraction at fixed central velocity dispersion for centrals .",
    "this indicates that these parameters can not be causally connected to central galaxy quenching , which provides powerful new constraints on the mechanism(s ) which may be responsible for causing quenching in these galaxies .    in section 5.2",
    "we develop a new technique for ascertaining and quantifying the impact on quenching of varying one parameter at a fixed other parameter .",
    "in particular , we define two statistics , the area contained within the upper and lower 50% range in the quenched fraction from varying a secondary parameter at fixed first parameter , and the average difference between quenched fraction at upper and lower 50% range . the former indicates the tightness of the quenched fraction dependence on the primary variable , and the latter additionally indicates the directionality of the trend . for centrals",
    ", we find a strong positive effect on the quenched fraction from varying central velocity dispersion at fixed values of all of the other variables considered in this work .",
    "most of the other variables have little to no effect on quenching at fixed central velocity dispersion .",
    "however , @xmath4 and disk mass do have a statistically significant effect , although smaller in magnitude to central velocity dispersion .",
    "this is most probably due to these parameters correlating with gas mass and hence being related to the amount of work which needs to be done to quench the galaxy .",
    "given the lack of impact on the quenched fraction of halo mass and stellar mass , it is highly improbable that either halo mass quenching , stellar or supernova feedback can be responsible for central galaxy quenching . however , the strong observed correlations between central velocity dispersion and supermassive black hole mass do present an interesting opportunity for explanation of our results via agn feedback . in section 6",
    ", we compare the quenching of centrals in illustris and l - galaxies to our observational ( sdss ) results . in both models ,",
    "the quenched fraction - black hole mass relationship is significantly tighter than the stellar mass or halo mass relation , qualitatively in agreement with observations .",
    "however , we find a quenching threshold ( defined as the black hole mass at which 50% of galaxies are quenched ) of @xmath74 in the munich model and @xmath75 in illustris , compared to @xmath76 in the sdss ( assuming the scaling law of saglia et al .",
    "this suggests that quenching via agn feedback may be too efficient ( as a function of black hole mass growth ) in l - galaxies and too inefficient in illustris , compared to local galaxies .",
    "we also consider if evolutionary systematics ( e.g. , via size evolution ) can give rise to the observed tightness of the @xmath3 relationship , without any causal connection .",
    "we perform a test using the green valley fraction ( of _ quenching _ ) galaxies .",
    "we find that central velocity dispersion remains a significantly tighter correlator to the quenched fraction than stellar or halo mass , even for galaxies currently undergoing transformation in their star forming state .",
    "this implies that evolutionary systematics , which can affect the quenched fraction , are not ultimately responsible for the dependence of central galaxy quenching on central velocity dispersion since this exists already in galaxies which are contemporaneously quenching .    for satellites , we find that the environmental metrics we consider ( i.e. , local density , halo mass , satellite - halo mass ratio , and group centric distance ) all have a significant effect on the quenched fraction at fixed central velocity dispersion ( see section 7 ) , unlike for centrals which experience very little dependence on halo mass or local density at fixed central velocity dispersion . using the area statistics approach we developed for centrals , we find that local density engenders the most significant perturbation on the @xmath3 relationship , followed jointly by halo mass and mass ratio , with group centric distance leading to the smallest impact on quenching .",
    "one possibility is that local density simply represents a good average quantity , sensitive to the mass of the group or cluster and the location of the satellite within it .",
    "however , it is possible that this ranking gives more direct information on what mechanisms are likely responsible for satellite galaxy quenching .",
    "for example , if galaxy - galaxy interactions dominate over galaxy - halo interactions , this would naturally lead to similar results to what we observe .    in summary",
    ", we find the tightest correlation between quenched fraction and central velocity dispersion for central galaxies , tighter than for any other parameter considered in this work .",
    "moreover , the @xmath3 relationship is largely unaffected by varying other galaxy parameters for centrals , whereas the quenched fraction dependence on each of the other galaxy parameters is heavily affected by varying central velocity dispersion .",
    "the invariance of the dependence of central galaxy quenching on central velocity dispersion with other galaxy parameters suggests that this may be a causal relationship .",
    "if so , it is most likely explained by agn feedback given the observed @xmath77 relation .",
    "furthermore , our observational results are qualitatively in agreement with the predictions from a hydrodynamical simulation and semi - analytic model , both of which quench galaxies via agn feedback in the radio mode",
    ". however , the details of our comparison do motivate further work in the implementation of quenching in the model and simulation , since the former is too efficient in its quenching and the latter is not efficient enough .",
    "finally , we find that central velocity dispersion is the most significant _ intrinsic _ parameter for satellite quenching ; although environment has a much larger impact on satellites than centrals .",
    "thus , additional quenching mechanisms are clearly needed for satellite galaxies over centrals , which must be strongly related to environment , particularly local galaxy density which performs best out of the environmental parameters we consider .",
    "we thank steven bamford , richard bower , marcella carollo , chris conselice , rob crain , will hartley , lars hernquist , simon lilly , avi loeb , laura sales and peter thomas for helpful discussions on this work .",
    "we thank kevin schawinski for giving us the green valley test idea .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for many helpful and insightful comments on this work , which have contributed greatly to the final version .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge funding from the swiss national foundation for sciences and the national science and engineering research council ( nserc ) of canada , particularly for discovery grants awarded to sle and drp .",
    "jm is supported by nsf grant ast-1516364 .",
    "es gratefully acknowledges funding by the emmy noether programme from the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) as well as funding through a canadian institute for advanced research ( cifar ) global scholarship and aip schwarzschild fellowship .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/    the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , university of cambridge , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "99    abazajian k. et al . , 2009 , apjs , 182 , 543     + baldry i. k. , balogh m. l. , bower r. g. , glazebrook k. , nichol r. c. , bamford s. p. , budavari t. , 2006 , mnras , 373 , 469 + baldwin j. a. , phillips m. m. , terlevich r. , 1981 , pasp , 93 , 5b + balogh m. l. , baldry i. k. , nichol r. , miller c. , bower r. , glazebrook k. , 2004 , apj , 615l , 101 + barnes j. e. , hernquist l. , 1992 , ara&a , 30 , 705 + barro g. et al . , 2013 , apj , 765 , 104 + barro g. et al . , 2014 ,",
    "apj , 791 , 52 + bernardi m. et al . , 2003 , aj , 125 , 1817 + bernardi m. , hyde j. b. , sheth r. k. , miller c. j. , nichol r. c. , 2007 , aj , 133 , 1741 + bluck a. f. l. , conselice c. j. , almaini o. , laird e. , nandra k. & gruetzbauch r. , 2011 , mnras , 410 , 1174 + bluck a. f. l. , mendel j. t. , ellison s. l. , moreno j. , simard l. , patton d. r. , starkenburg e. , 2014 , mnras , 441 , 599 + bower r. g. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 645 + bower r. g. , mccarthy i. g. , benson , a. j. , 2008 , mnras , 390 , 1399 + brinchmann j. , charlot s. , white s. d. m. , tremonti c. , kauffmann g. , heckman t. , brinkmann j. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 1151 + butcher h. , oemler a. , 1984 , apj , 285 , 426     + cameron e. , driver s. p. , graham a. w. , liske j. , 2009 , apj , 699 , 105 + cameron e. , driver s. p. , 2009 ,",
    "a&a , 493 , 489 + cappellari m. et al . , 2011 , mnras , 416 , 1680 + carollo c. m. et al . , 2013 , apj , 773 , 112 + cheung e. et al . , 2012 , apj , 760 , 131 + cicone c. et al . , 2013 ,",
    "a&a in press , arxiv:1311.2595 + cole s. , lacey c. g. , baugh c. m. , frenk c. s. , 2000 , mnras , 319 , 168 + cortese l. , gavazzi g. , boselli a. , franzetti p. , kennicutt r. c. , oneil k. , sakai s. , 2006 , a&a , 453 , 847 + croton d. j. et al . , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 11 + cucciati o. , 2012 , a&a , 539 , 31     + darg d. w. et al . ,",
    "2010a , mnras , 401 , 1552 + dekel a. , birnboim y. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 2 + dekel a. et al .",
    ", 2009 , nature , 457 , 451 + dekel a. , burkert a. , 2014 , mnras , 438 , 1870 + dressler a. , 1980 , apj , 236 , 351 + driver s. p. et al .",
    ", 2006 , mnras , 368 , 414 + dunn j. p. et al . , 2010 , apj , 709 , 611     + fabian a. c. , 1999 , mnras , 303l , 59 + fabian a. c. , 2012 , ara&a , 50 , 455 + fang j. j. , faber s. m. , koo d. c. , dekel a. , 2013 , apj , 776 , 63 + ferrarese l. , merritt d. , 2000 , apj , 539l , 9 + font a. s. et al . , 2008 , mnras , 389 , 1619 + fukugita m. , peebles p. j. e. , 2004 , apj , 616 , 643     + gebhardt k. et al . ,",
    "2000 , apj , 539 , 13 + guo q. et al .",
    ", 2011 , mnras , 413 , 101     + haring n. , rix h. , 2004 , apj , 604l , 89 + harrison c. m. , alexander d. m. , mullaney j. r. , swinbank a. m. , 2014 , mnras , 441 , 3306 + harrison c. m. et al .",
    ", 2016 , mnras , 457l , 122 + henriques b. m. b. , white s. d. m. , thomas p. a. , angulo r. e. , guo q. , lemson g. , springel v. , 2013 , mnras , 431 , 3373 + henriques b. m. b. et al . , 2015 , mnras , 451 , 2663 + hickox r. c. , mullaney j. r. , alexander d. m. , chen c - t j. , civano f. m. , goulding a. d. , hainline k. n. , 2014 , apj , 782 , 9h + hirschmann m. , de lucia g. , iovino a. , cucciati o. , 2013 , mnras , 433 , 1479 + hopkins , p. f. , hernquist l. , cox t. j. , robertson b. , krause e. , 2007 , apj , 669 , 67 + hopkins p. f. , hernquist l. , cox t. j. , keres d. , 2008 , apjs , 175 , 356 + hopkins p. f. , cox t. j. , hernquist l. , narayanan d. , hayward c. c. , murray n. , 2013 , mnras , 430 , 1901     + jorgensen i. , franx m. , kjaergaard p. , 1995",
    ", mnras , 276 , 1341     + kauffmann g. et al . , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 1055 + knobel c. , lilly s. j. , woo j. , kovac k. , 2015 , apj , 800 , 24 + kormendy j. , richstone d. , 1995 , ara&a , 33 , 581 + kormendy j. , ho l. c. , 2013 , ara&a , 51 , 511     + lang p. et al . , 2014 , apj , 788 , 11 + lilly s. j. , le fevre o. , hammer f. , crampton d. , 1996 , apj , 460l , 1 + lilly s. j. , carollo c. m. , 2016 , apj submitted , arxiv:160406459 + liu g. , zakamska n. l. , greene j. e. , nesvadba n. p. h. , liu x. , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 2576     + madau p. , pozzetti l. , dickinson m. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 106 + maddox n. , hess k. m. , obreschkow d. , jarvis m. j. , blyth s. l. , 2015 , mnras , 447 , 1610 + magorrian j. et al .",
    ", 1998 , aj , 115 , 2285 + martig m. , bournaud f. , teyssier r. , dekel a. , 2009 , apj , 707 , 250 + mcconnell n. j. , ma c. p. , 2013 ,",
    "apj , 764 , 184 + mcconnell n. j. et al .",
    "2011 , nature , 480 , 215 + mcnamara b. r. et al . ,",
    "2000 , apj , 534l , 135 + mcnamara b. r. , nulsen p. e. j. , 2007 , ara&a , 45 , 117 + mendel j. t. , simard l. , ellison s. l. , patton d. r. , 2013 , mnras , 429 , 2212 + mendel j. t. , simard l. , palmer m. , ellison s. l. , patton d. r. , 2014 , apjs , 210 , 3 + moster b. p. , somerville r. s. , maulbetsch c. , van den bosch f. c. , maccio a. v. , naab t. , oser l. , 2010 , apj , 710 , 903 + moster b. p. , naab t. , white s. d. m. , 2013 , mnras , 428 , 3121     + newman a. b. , ellis r. s. , bundy k. , treu t. , 2012 , apj , 746 , 162 + nulsen p. e. j. , mcnamara b. r. , wise m. w. , david l. p. , 2005",
    ", apj , 628 , 629     + omand c. m. b. , balogh m. l. , poggianti b. m. , 2014 , mnras , 440 , 843o     + peng y. et al . , 2010 , apj , 721 , 193 + peng y. , lilly s. j. , renzini a. , carollo m. , 2012 , apj , 757 , 4 + peng y. , maiolino r. , cochrane r. , 2015 , nature , 521 , 192     + saglia r. p. et al .",
    ", 2016 , apj , 818 , 47 + saintonge a. et al . , 2011 , mnras , 415 , 32 + schawinski k. et al . , 2014 , mnras , 440 , 889 + schaye j. et al . , 2015 , mnras , 446 , 521 + shankar f. , weinberg d. h. , miralda - escude j. , 2009 , apj , 690 , 20 + shull j. m. , smith b. d. , danforth c. w. , 2012 , apj , 759 , 23 + sijacki d. , springel v. , di matteo t. , hernquist l. , 2007 , mnras , 380 , 877 + silk j. , rees m. j. , 1998 , a&a , 331 , 1 + simard l. , mendel j. t. , patton d. r. , ellison s. l. , mcconnachie a. w. , 2011 , apj , 196 , 11 + somerville r. s. , hopkins p. f. , cox t. j. , robertson b. e. , hernquist l. , 2008 , mnras , 391 , 481 + somerville r. s. , dave r. , 2015 , ara&a , 53 , 51 + soltan a. , 1982 , mnras , 200 , 115 + springel v. et al . , 2005 , nature , 435 , 629     + tasca l. a. m. et al . , 2009 , a&a , 503 , 379 + teimoorinia h. , bluck a. f. l. , ellison s. l. , 2016 , mnras , 457 , 2086 + torrey p. , vogelsberger m. , genel s. , sijacki d. , springel v. , hernquist l. , 2014 , mnras , 438 , 1985     + van den bosch f. c. et al . , 2008 , mnras , 387 , 79 + vogelsberger m. et al",
    ", 2014a , nature , 509 , 177 + vogelsberger m. et al .",
    ", 2014b , 2014 , mnras , 444 , 1518 + vogelsberger m. genel s. , sijacki d. , torrey p. , springel v. , hernquist l. , 2013 , mnras , 436 , 3031     + wake d. a. , van dokkum p. g. , franx m. , 2012 , apj , 751l , 44 + wetzel a. r. , tinker j. l. , conroy c. , van den bosch f. c. , 2013 , mnras , 432 , 336 + woo j. et al . , 2013 , mnras , 428 , 3306 + woo j. , dekel a. , faber s. m. , koo d. c. , 2015 , mnras , 448 , 237 + wuyts s. et al . , 2011 , apj , 742 , 96     + yang x. , mo h. j. , van den bosch f. c. , pasquali a. l. , cheng b. m. , 2007 , apj , 671 , 153 + yang x. , mo h. j. , van den bosch f. c. , 2008 , apj , 676 , 248 + yang x. , mo h. j. , van den bosch f. c. , 2009 , apj , 695 , 900",
    "to demonstrate how the area statistics approach works in practice , we consider in this appendix a few simple cases to build intuition with the technique .",
    "first , we consider a case where the probability of a galaxy being quenched is proportional to some observable variable , @xmath78 . hence :    @xmath79    additionally , variable @xmath78 is correlated with another variable @xmath80 , such that :    @xmath81    where @xmath82 indicates a random number between -1 and 1 , and @xmath83 is a coefficient related to the tightness of the relationship between @xmath78 and @xmath80 , where higher values of @xmath83 lead to weaker correlations . in a very simple case where @xmath78 and @xmath80 are both set to have values between 0 and 1 ,",
    "@xmath84 and @xmath85 can be set directly equal to @xmath78 . to illustrate how our area statistics approach works , we generate a sample of a million random values for parameter @xmath78 , and determine whether each case is ` quenched ' or `",
    "star forming ' by a monte carlo method , using the probability of being quenched given by @xmath78 .",
    "we additionally construct a million values of @xmath80 , from @xmath78 , using different thresholds for the correlation parameter , @xmath83 .    in fig .",
    "a1 , left panels , we show a contour plot of the constructed correlations between @xmath78 and @xmath80 , for @xmath83 = 0.2 ( top ) and 0.5 ( bottom ) . in the middle panels we show the quenched fraction relationship with @xmath78 , and on the right panels we show the quenched fraction relationship with @xmath80 , as solid black lines . when @xmath78 and @xmath80 are highly correlated ( top panels ) the slope of the quenched fraction relationship is comparable with each variable , so it is hard to tell a priori whether it is ultimately @xmath78 or @xmath80 which affects quenching , or some combination of both or neither .",
    "we then proceed with our area statistics approach ( in  5.2.1 ) , by measuring the quenched fraction at various percentile ranges of @xmath80 at fixed @xmath78 in the middle panels , and at various percentile ranges of @xmath78 at fixed @xmath80 in the right panels .",
    "we then measure the area and average @xmath86 , as in eqs . 8 & 9 .",
    "we find that the area is lower in both cases for the quenched fraction as a function of @xmath78 ( fig .",
    "a1 , middle panels ) than as a function of @xmath80 ( fig .",
    "a1 , right panels ) , which recovers our input result , that the probability of quenching is determined by @xmath78 not @xmath80 .",
    "we also note that the magnitude of the difference in area is also dependent on the correlation parameter ( @xmath83 ) and hence how tight the correlation between @xmath78 and @xmath80 is .",
    "tighter correlations lead to smaller areas in general because the extent to which variable @xmath78 can vary at fixed variable @xmath80 is limited . in this example",
    "the areas and average differences are identical , because in this simple setup quenching depends only on one variable , in a positive manner only .",
    "if , for instance , quenching in our example depended on @xmath87 ( instead of @xmath78 ) , we would find that area @xmath0 @xmath88 . if quenching depends on both @xmath78 and @xmath80 equally , we would find equivalent areas for the middle and right panels , in each case of @xmath83 .",
    "for brevity we do not show all these examples here , but we mention them to add some further intuition to our method .",
    "in order to compare the dependence of central galaxy quenching on supermassive black hole mass in models to observations it is necessary to estimate black hole masses for observed galaxies .",
    "since there are so few dynamically measured black hole masses in existence ( @xmath0 100 , saglia et al .",
    "2016 ) indirect means must be used . throughout the main body of the paper ( particularly section 6 )",
    ", we use the fiducial @xmath59 relationship for all morphological types presented in saglia et al .",
    "this leads to our comparison with models being scaling law dependent . in this section",
    "we consider how significant a source of systematic bias this is for our analysis .",
    "mcconnell & ma ( 2013 ) find that galaxies with early - type ( etg ) morphologies exhibit a different scaling law to those with late - type ( ltg ) morphologies . a part of the reason for this difference may come from the fact that galaxies in their sample are not restricted to being face - on . to test the potential impact on our results of adopting a different scaling law for etgs and ltgs , here we relax our face - on criterion and weighting scheme ( presented in section 2 ) and fit galaxies with @xmath89 and @xmath90 with separate laws , assuming that galaxies with a dominant stellar fraction in a bulge component can be thought of as etgs and those with a dominant stellar fraction in a disk component",
    "can be thought of as ltgs .",
    "our results in this section are not particularly sensitive to the exact cut in @xmath91 .",
    "specifically , we compute ( from mcconnell & ma 2013 ) :        in fig .",
    "b1 we reproduce the results in fig .",
    "6 using these different scaling laws for different morphologies , and additionally allowing all disk inclinations to enter our sample . the results are almost identical between using a single scaling law for all galaxies ( with a face - on restriction and weighting , fig .",
    "6 ) and using separate scaling laws for etgs and ltgs ( for the full sample of inclinations ) .",
    "it is clear that estimated black hole mass is a much tighter correlator with the quenched fraction than halo or stellar mass , as seen before .",
    "even quantitatively the areas and mean difference statistics ( shown on each plot ) are very similar , within their respective errors .",
    "the only small difference is that the quenching threshold ( black hole mass at which 50% of central galaxies are quenched ) increases slightly from @xmath94 ( for a single scaling law ) to @xmath95 ( for separate etg/ ltg laws ) .",
    "this small change leaves all of our conclusions unchanged .",
    "in addition to the dependence of the scaling law on global morphology , kormendy & ho ( 2013 ) and saglia et al .",
    "( 2016 ) both find strong evidence that the dependence of dynamically measured black hole mass on central velocity dispersion is much weaker for pseudo - bulges than for classical bulges . the most common way to identify a pseudo bulge is by its low srsic index .",
    "however , in the bulge - disk decompositions of simard et al .",
    "( 2011 ) and mendel et al .",
    "( 2014 ) , which we use for our morphological measurements , a fixed @xmath5 = 4 bulge model is used .",
    "this is because a free @xmath5 bulge was found not to be supported by the data in most cases , making the fits ultimately degenerate .",
    "it is , however , possible to identify pseudo - bulges via other means .    in fig .",
    "b2 we show the relationship between bulge mass ( from sed fitting to the bulge - disk decompositions ) and central velocity dispersion ( from the width of absorption lines in the sdss spectra ) . at high bulge mass and central velocity dispersion , there is a strong and steep correlation , as expected for classical bulges . at lower bulge masses and central velocity dispersions ,",
    "the correlation between @xmath96 and @xmath1 weakens and eventually disappears .",
    "this lack of relationship between mass and velocity dispersion is exactly as expected for pseudo bulges .",
    "additionally , in fig .",
    "b2 we colour code each hexagonal bin in the relationship by the average srsic index of the galaxy ( for a free srsic index fit in r - band , performed in simard et al .",
    "clearly , the classical bulges have higher values of @xmath5 than the pseudo bulges .    using a cut of @xmath5 = 2",
    "for the whole galaxy to separate likely pseudo bulges from the classical bulge sample , we recompute the black hole masses using the separate scaling laws for classical bulges and pseudo bulges in saglia ( 2016 ) . as with our @xmath91 cut above",
    ", the exact threshold in srsic index does not significantly affect the results .",
    "specifically we compute :        in fig .",
    "b3 we reproduce the results in fig . 6 ( and fig .",
    "b1 ) this time for separate scaling laws for classical and pseudo bulges ( as advocated in kormendy & ho 2013 ; saglia et al .",
    "again our results are almost identical to the single scaling law implementation in section 6 .",
    "black hole mass remains a much tighter correlator to the quenched fraction than either halo or stellar mass .",
    "in fact the difference in areas actually increases a little in the rendering with different scaling laws for different bulge types , compared to a single average scaling law ( section 6 ) .",
    "the quenching threshold remains at @xmath95 , identical to fig .",
    "b1 and slightly higher than in fig . 6 .    in summary of this appendix",
    ", we find that our results and conclusions are highly insensitive to the exact rendering of the @xmath59 scaling law used for comparison to the models in section 6 .",
    "specifically , using different laws for early- and late - types , relaxing the face - on inclination criterion , and fitting separately pseudo and classical bulges using the latest published results from the literature ( e.g. , mcconnell & ma et al .",
    "2013 ; saglia et al .",
    "2016 ) lead to no significant differences in any of our results .",
    "hence , our comparison to illustris and l - galaxies ( in section 6.1 ) is largely free of systematic bias from our choice of scaling law parameterization ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we quantify the impact that a variety of galactic and environmental properties have on the quenching of star formation . </S>",
    "<S> we collate a sample of @xmath0 400,000 central and @xmath0 100,000 satellite galaxies from the sloan digital sky survey data release 7 ( sdss dr7 ) . </S>",
    "<S> specifically , we consider central velocity dispersion ( @xmath1 ) , stellar , halo , bulge and disk mass , local density , bulge - to - total ratio , group - centric distance and galaxy - halo mass ratio . </S>",
    "<S> we develop and apply a new statistical technique to quantify the impact on the quenched fraction ( @xmath2 ) of varying one parameter , while keeping the remaining parameters fixed . for centrals , we find that the @xmath3 relationship is tighter and steeper than for any other variable considered . </S>",
    "<S> we compare to the illustris hydrodynamical simulation and the munich semi - analytic model ( l - galaxies ) , finding that our results for centrals are qualitatively consistent with their predictions for quenching via radio - mode agn feedback , hinting at the viability of this process in explaining our observational trends . </S>",
    "<S> however , we also find evidence that quenching in l - galaxies is too efficient and quenching in illustris is not efficient enough , compared to observations . for satellites , we find strong evidence that environment affects their quenched fraction at fixed central velocity dispersion , particularly at lower masses . at higher masses , </S>",
    "<S> satellites behave identically to centrals in their quenching . of the environmental parameters considered </S>",
    "<S> , local density affects the quenched fraction of satellites the most at fixed central velocity dispersion .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : formation , evolution , structure , morphology , kinematics ; star formation ; agn ; black holes </S>"
  ]
}