{
  "article_text": [
    "while modeling and optimizing the energy consumption of different applications and mobile systems have been the active research interest for a decade  @xcite , the overall performance of the smartphone power management systems has not received significant attention yet .",
    "the diverse set of smartphone models available today are powered with batteries of different capacity volumes and technologies , such as lithium - ion and lithium - polymer .",
    "they employ different charging mechanisms to charge their batteries and rely on different state of charge ( soc ) estimation techniques .",
    "the growth of smartphone battery size has been linear with time .",
    "charging large batteries with traditional charging techniques may take very long time .",
    "in addition , the context may not allow a user to charge long enough time .",
    "therefore , it is necessary that the battery should be charged to some reasonable amount , e.g. , 30 - 50% , within a short amount of time .",
    "consequently , users are increasingly relying on a number of fast charging techniques from qualcomm ( quick  @xcite ) and samsung ( fast ) .",
    "nevertheless , the quality of charging plays an important role in the longevity of smartphone batteries .",
    "for example , if a battery is charged over the maximum battery voltage , the resulting chemical reactions may reduce the capacity significantly  @xcite and increase the battery temperature beyond the safety limit . understanding",
    "the inefficiency of the energy source , and other related contributing factors can enable better optimization of the applications , systems , and more accurate power consumption modeling .",
    "given the number of smart mobile devices available on the market , it is not feasible to investigate their charging and battery properties , and the performance of the charging methods on batteries in a laboratory environment .",
    "although there are studies on users charging behavior  @xcite , it is not well understood how this battery and charging information could be presented in more meaningful ways to the users and mobile vendors other than just the battery level .    in this article , we explore a large battery analytic dataset comprising various battery sensor information from 30k devices of 1.5k unique smartphone models collected by the carat  @xcite application .",
    "we explore their battery voltage behavior , charging rate and charging time , and demonstrate how these properties can be used to expose the characteristics of their power management systems .",
    "we identify their charging mechanisms , soc estimation techniques and battery properties , and the distribution of these properties among the devices . to the best of our knowledge",
    "such comprehensive study on a large smartphone battery dataset has not been presented earlier .",
    "our findings and contributions are listed in the sidebar .",
    "the rest of the paper is organized as follows .",
    "next section provides an overview on smartphone s power management system and describes the crowdsourced dataset .",
    "the subsequent sections explore the dataset and identify the characteristics of various power management techniques used by the smartphones and properties of smartphone batteries while charging . before concluding the paper",
    ", we also discuss user behavior in charging their smartphones .",
    "the charger and three different ics , a fuel gauge , a charging controller , and a protection ic , manage the charging of a mobile device . the charging controller",
    "is hosted in the device and the protection ic resides in the battery .",
    "the fuel gauge functionality may be distributed between the device and the battery .",
    "the fuel gauge determines the runtime battery capacity , i.e. , soc or battery level , using open circuit voltage , coulomb counter , or a combined mechanism of these two  @xcite .",
    "it senses battery voltage , temperature , and charge or discharge current to / from the battery pack . at the same time , it also provides feedback to the charging ic . the charging controller applies the charging algorithm , such as cc - cv , and uses the fuel gauge provided information to control the charging current , voltage , and to terminate the charging .",
    "finally , the protection ic protects the battery from over voltage or current from the device .",
    "the android battery manager collects charging and battery information from the fuel gauge ( see table  [ tab : charger_battery_info ] ) and broadcasts as events .",
    "carat collects information from mobile devices as samples with a broadcast receiver .",
    "a sample structure can be defined as @xmath0 , where @xmath1 is the epoch timestamp of a soc update event and @xmath2 are the attribute and value pairs . from all the information collected in a sample , we consider the timestamp , soc , battery voltage , battery health , battery temperature , charging status , charger type , and the screen status attributes .    [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we consider all the charging events and the corresponding samples in this section as well . a charging event should contain one sample for each battery level or soc update .",
    "therefore , the number of samples for a specific battery level should be unique in an event .",
    "however , we have found more than one sample for a single battery level update in the form of soc fluctuation ( e.g. battery level = 5@xmath36@xmath45@xmath36 ) .",
    "nevertheless , such soc fluctuations are not uniformly distributed , rather left skewed with respect to the battery level .",
    "2% of the charging events reside at the tail of the distribution , which contain fluctuation between two consecutive levels .",
    "the screen status of the corresponding samples suggests that the devices were being actively used .",
    "therefore , it took a longer time for an actual 1% increment .",
    "other than charging and actively using their devices at the same time , users may keep their devices connected with the chargers even when the batteries are completely charged . from the dataset , we have identified 3% of such charging events .",
    "the duration of such events can be a few to thousands of seconds . in this case",
    ", the phone stops charging the battery and begins recharging whenever 1 - 2% has been discharged .",
    "however , we have measured that the extra energy spent during a over night charging for 10 hours can be used to charge a iphone 6 to its full capacity ( 1810mah ) .",
    "in this study based on data gathered from in - the - wild devices , we have shown that a few thousand devices use inefficient charging mechanisms that can significantly reduce battery life .",
    "we have found that 2% of the devices charge their batteries well above the maximum battery voltage . this charging method deteriorates battery capacity faster than normal .",
    "there has been very active discussion in various online forums identifying battery soc anomalies and such soc error is due to the capacity loss  @xcite .",
    "a small number of devices had a charging current higher than 1.0c , which also degrades battery performance quickly .",
    "we have also observed that 85% of the devices suffered from 1 - 10% capacity loss .",
    "moreover , user behavior and interaction with the device during charging also contribute to energy waste .",
    "our future research includes investigating the performance of different charging algorithms with a larger dataset and developing a battery analytics api based on spark so that users and vendors can investigate the performance of their batteries and power management techniques .",
    "this work was funded by the academy of finland cubic project with grant number 277498 .",
    ", anand  p. iyer , ion stoica , eemil lagerspetz , and sasu tarkoma .",
    "2013 . . in _ proceedings of the 11th acm conference on embedded networked sensor systems _ _ ( sensys 13)_. acm , new york , ny , usa , article 10 , 14 pages .            ,",
    "mosharaf chowdhury , tathagata das , ankur dave , justin ma , murphy mccauly , michael  j. franklin , scott shenker , and ion stoica . 2012 . .",
    "in _ presented as part of the 9th usenix symposium on networked systems design and implementation ( nsdi 12)_. usenix , san jose , ca , 1528 .    , birjodh tiwana , zhiyun qian , zhaoguang wang , robert  p. dick , zhuoqing  morley mao , and lei yang",
    ". 2010 . . in _ proceedings of the eighth ieee / acm / ifip international conference on hardware / software codesign and system synthesis",
    "_ ( codes / isss 10)_. acm , new york , ny , usa , 105114 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> for better reliability and prolonged battery life , it is important that users and vendors understand the quality of charging and the performance of smartphone batteries . considering the diverse set of devices and user behavior it is a challenge . in this work , </S>",
    "<S> we analyze a large collection of battery analytics dataset collected from 30k devices of 1.5k unique smartphone models . </S>",
    "<S> we analyze their battery properties and state of charge while charging , and reveal the characteristics of different components of their power management systems : charging mechanisms , state of charge estimation techniques , and their battery properties . </S>",
    "<S> we explore diverse charging behavior of devices and their users . </S>"
  ]
}