{
  "article_text": [
    "nowadays , many different areas of science and engineering require high performance computing ( hpc ) to perform data and computationally intensive experiments @xcite .",
    "advances in transport phenomena , thermodynamics , material properties , machine learning , chemistry , and physics are possible only because of large scale computing infrastructures . yet , over the last decade",
    "the definition of high performance computing changed drastically .",
    "the introduction of computing systems made from many inexpensive processors became an alternative to the large and expensive supercomputers .",
    "in @xmath0 the introduction of a practical way to link many personal computers in a computing cluster represented cost - effective and highly performance model @xcite .",
    "today , the beowulf concept represents a recognized subcategory within the high - performance computing community .",
    "this vision , although implemented in certain way , is not entirely realized and many challenges are still open . for instance , the cost of energy consumption of a single server during its life cycle can surpass its purchasing cost @xcite . furthermore , at least @xmath1 of the energy expenses in large - scale computing centers are dedicated to cooling @xcite .",
    "need for energy preservation have forced many hpc centers to relocate near power stations or renewable energy location and to utilize natural / green resources like sea water or outside air in naturally cold areas in the world .",
    "idle resources account for a portion of the energy waste in many centers , and therefore load balancing and workload scheduling are of increased interest in high performance computing . furthermore , depending on the specific computational tasks , it is more cost effective to run more nodes at slower speed .",
    "in other cases exploring parallelism on as many processors as possible provides a more energy efficient strategy @xcite , @xcite . as a consequence from the different computational demands a competition for resources emerges .",
    "subsequently , the scientific and engineering communities are turning their interests to the possibility of implementing energy - efficient servers utilizing low - power cpus for computing - intensive tasks .",
    "taking under consideration the above factors , in this paper we present a novel approach to scientific computation based on the beowulf concept , utilizing single board computers ( sbc ) .",
    "our goal is two fold .",
    "firstly , we want to show a low - energy consumption architecture capable to tackle heavily demanding scientific computational problems .",
    "second , we want to provide a low cost personal solution for scientists and engineers .",
    "recently this architecture has been presented at linux conference europe 2015 @xcite .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows . in the next section",
    "we describe the specific hardware we have used to build our cluster .",
    "then we outline the software packages the server runs on .",
    "we provide several benchmark tests to assess the performance of our suggested architecture .",
    "furthermore , we carry out two benchmark tools involving practical tcad for physicist and engineers in the semiconductor industry in order to assess the reliability of this machine in real life situations . in more detail",
    "we run two well - known gnu packages - archimedes @xcite and nano - archimedes @xcite which respectively deal with classical ( cmos technology ) and quantum electron transport ( post - cmos technology ) .",
    "we conclude the paper with possible future directions .",
    "the single board computer is a complete computer architecture on a single circuit board . compared to its low cost",
    ", the board provides relatively high computational power , low power consumption and small space required for storage . in the last few years over @xmath2 different sbc boards of varying architectural and computational capabilities have been introduced @xcite . consequently , several teams have considered and implemented sbc boards as beowulf clusters @xcite , @xcite . while interesting projects are concentrating towards large centers and research institutions , others have demonstrated a beowulf cluster consisting of @xmath3 raspberry pi boards was described in @xcite .",
    "several factors need to be taken into consideration when developing such cluster - computing power , memory size and its speed , energy consumption levels , and in our specific case mobility of the cluster . despite the success of the iridis - pi project ,",
    "it is rather expensive since it had to use so many rasbperry pi boards to reach computational power and memory availability .",
    "furthermore , expansion of the number of boards leads to an increase of energy consumption and a need for cooling implementation .",
    "those reasons hinder the mobility of the cluster .",
    "finally , while they provided a proof of concept , most projects focus on proving the concept @xcite , applying it as a web server @xcite or for testing distributed software @xcite or distributed updates @xcite .",
    "the following subsections describe the most important hardware parameters of the radxa rock board , the cluster architecture and the software we have ran on it .",
    "the reader should keep in mind that the type of boards , architecture and software are not a necessary limitations and other specifications can be implemented as well .      in this section ,",
    "we present the most relevant hardware parameters of the radxa rock board ( in the context of our project ) .",
    "the selection of this specific board depended on several primary factors : computing power , memory size and speed , communication speed .",
    "the size of the boards and the case we have built are also considered since heat dissipation is an essential factor for the necessary cooling strategies and therefore operational costs of the machine . we have concentrated on developing an architecture that is mobile and easy for transportation but at the same time able to perform meaningful science / engineering computational tasks . in terms of usability , determining the software needs and specific packages to be employed has been taken under consideration .    our high performance parallel personal cluster ( @xmath4 ) consists of @xmath5 radxa rock pro nodes @xcite ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : radxacomp ] ) , with a plug - and - play model ( specifically developed for our purpose ) for the addition of more boards when we require more computational power .",
    "the radxa board itself has a rockchip @xmath6 @xmath7 cpu architecture with @xmath5 cores running at @xmath8 .",
    "the board is equipped with @xmath9 of ddr3 ram ( at @xmath10 ) , which has considerably more bandwidth compared to , for instance , raspberry pi or the beaglebone boards @xcite , @xcite .",
    "currently , the system - on - chip boards are not designed to extend the physical ram , but since we are using distributed memory provided by all boards , this disadvantage is mitigated to a certain level .",
    "the non - volatile storage on the board is a @xmath11 of nand flash memory .",
    "currently , this space is enough to install the required operating system and all the necessary software in order to perform highly sophisticated quantum computations ( see section [ compute ] ) .",
    "furthermore , the storage capacity can be extended through the available microsd card slot , which can be used to increase the virtual memory of the cluster or to add more storage capacity . in the current work",
    ", we use a generic @xmath12 sdhc flash memory with a minimum write speed of @xmath13 .",
    "we have used part of the additional storage as a virtual memory and the rest as a storage space .",
    "the purpose of the latter is to reduce the size of the software that is needed by each node and instead provide an option to compile it dynamically .",
    "therefore , we have implemented a samba share to provide access to all client nodes in the system .",
    "the decision to choose samba is _ by no means _ a limiting factor and one might instead use nfs or rsync in similar manner . in this way , s we provide access to the software and data to all available nodes .",
    "additionally , we can implement upgrades and changes without increase of workload time or wasting memory in every board .",
    "if specific libraries ( such as mpi ) are needed for certain computations , they are installed on the external drive , with hard links from every node pointing to their storage location .",
    "the board provides also two usb @xmath14 ports , a @xmath15 ethernet adapter , built - in _ wifi _ module at @xmath16 with support for the @xmath17 protocol and a @xmath18 module .",
    "the graphical processing unit is mali-@xmath19 running at @xmath20 , with one hdmi output .    [",
    "cols=\"^ \" , ]",
    "in this work , we suggested a novel cluster architecture based on systems on a chip , which was recently presented at the linux conference 2015 @xcite .",
    "we have successfully validated our practical hardware implementation over a set of standard benchmarking test ( nasa , npb @xcite ) .",
    "furthermore , in spite of the common believe of the scientific computational communities , we have been able to show that this machine can actually perform _ real life _",
    "related simulations , in particular in the field of cmos and post - cmos device design .",
    "the reader should note that our current implementation consists of a _ homogeneous _ structure based on radxa rock boards only , connected by means of ethernet interface .",
    "it is clear that these practical decisions do not represent a restriction . as a matter of fact",
    ", we plan to design and implement a _ heterogeneous _ cluster , which is not soc and ethernet dependent . inspired by the very encouraging results shown in this paper ,",
    "the authors believe that this direction could represent a practical solution to the problem of having to recur to expensive and power consumptive supercomputer every time a scientific and/or engineering numerical task is required .    .",
    "the authors would like to thank prof .",
    "i.  dimov for the valuable conversations .",
    "this work has been supported by the project ec acomin ( fp7-regpot-20122013 - 1 ) , as well as by the bulgarian science fund under grant dfni i02/20 .",
    "becker , t.  sterling , d.  savarese , j.e .",
    "dorband , u.a .",
    "ranawak , c.v .  packer , beowulf : a parallel workstation for scientific computation , in proceedings , international conference on parallel processing , vol .",
    "( 1995 ) .",
    "freeh , f.  pan , n.  kappiah , d.k .",
    "lowenthal , r.  springer , exploring the energy - time tradeoff in mpi programs on a power - scalable cluster , in parallel and distributed processing symposium , proceedings .",
    "19th ieee international , pp .",
    "ieee , ( 2005 ) .",
    "n.  rajovic , p.m.  carpenter , i.  gelado , n.  puzovic , a.  ramirez , m.r .",
    "valero , supercomputing with commodity cpus : are mobile socs ready for hpc ?",
    ", international conference in high performance computing , networking , storage and analysis ( sc ) , pp .  1 - 12 .",
    "ieee , ( 2013 ) .                                *",
    "kristina g. kapanova * is from the institute of information and communication technologies at the bulgarian academy of sciences , where she is currently working to obtain her phd degree .",
    "her research interests include numerical methods , artificial neural networks , optimization , system on a chip development to enable science and engineering research on a smaller scale .",
    "* jean michel sellier * is currently an associate professor at the bulgarian academy of sciences .",
    "he is also the creator and maintainer of several gnu packages for the simulation of electron transport in cmos devices ( archimedes ) , and the simulation of single- and many - body quantum systems occurring in the field of quantum computing , spintronics , quantum chemistry and post - cmos devices ( nano - archimedes ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> today , many scientific and engineering areas require high performance computing to perform computationally intensive experiments . </S>",
    "<S> for example , many advances in transport phenomena , thermodynamics , material properties , computational chemistry and physics are possible only because of the availability of such large scale computing infrastructures . </S>",
    "<S> yet many challenges are still open . </S>",
    "<S> the cost of energy consumption , cooling , competition for resources have been some of the reasons why the scientific and engineering communities are turning their interests to the possibility of implementing energy - efficient servers utilizing low - power cpus for computing - intensive tasks . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we introduce a novel approach , which was recently presented at linux conference europe 2015 , based on the beowulf concept and utilizing single board computers ( sbc ) . </S>",
    "<S> we present a low - energy consumption architecture capable to tackle heavily demanding scientific computational problems . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , our goal is to provide a low cost personal solution for scientists and engineers . in order to evaluate the performance of the proposed architecture we ran several standard benchmarking tests . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , we assess the reliability of the machine in real life situations by performing two benchmark tools involving practical tcad for physicist and engineers in the semiconductor industry .    </S>",
    "<S> parallel computing , system on a chip , beowulf , performance assessment , technology computer aided design </S>"
  ]
}