{
  "article_text": [
    "detection of multi - planet systems via the radial velocity ( rv ) method are becoming increasing common as both the duration and sensitivity of rv surveys increase .",
    "a crucial step in examining these multi - planet systems is the analysis of the orbital stability of the planets over long timescales @xcite . since the rv technique can sample the orbit during any position of the orbital phase , it is particularly well suited to providing information on the eccentricity and argument of periastron for each planet .",
    "these keplerian orbital elements can result in orbits that imply close encounters between the planets in the system .",
    "mean - motion orbital resonances ( mmr ) , such as the pluto 2:3 resonance with neptune , can prevent close encounters and result in orbital stability ( for example , see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "dynamical simulations of planetary systems with an additional planet inserted at an arbitrary semi - major axis are often used to numerically determine the location of the islands of stability at the mean - motion resonances @xcite .",
    "two planetary systems were recently moved from single - planet to multi - planet status through additional observations .",
    "the star hd  5319 was found to harbor a planet by @xcite , and then an additional planet by @xcite .",
    "the first planet in the hd  7924 was discovered by @xcite , after which the system was expanded with two more planets by @xcite .",
    "based upon the published orbital parameters , both of these systems exhibit evidence of orbital instability due to potential close encounters of the two outer planets .",
    "the inclination of the planetary orbits to the plane of the sky for these systems is unknown , and so a dynamical solution to avoiding close encounters may include mutual inclinations between the orbits in addition to mmrs that may be present .    in this paper , we present dynamical simulations of the hd  5319 and hd  7924 systems that help to resolve possible close encounters of the outer planets via mutual inclinations of the planetary orbits .",
    "section  [ system ] presents a description of the problem being addressed , including the relevant system parameters and quantifying the proximity of the planetary orbits to each other .",
    "section  [ method ] outlines the methodological approach and parameters used in the numerical simulations .",
    "the results for the hd  5319 and hd  7924 simulations are presented in sections [ hd5319 ] and [ hd7924 ] respectively .",
    "section  [ mmr ] investigates the possibility of mean - motion resonances as additional sources of stability .",
    "section  [ obs ] investigates the effect of periastron argument on system stability and details a strategy for further observations that could help to resolve the orbits of the planetary systems .",
    "we provide concluding remarks in section  [ conclusions ] .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     for the hd  5319 system , the closest mmr is the 4:3 resonance , although doesnot match to that resonance within the period uncertainties .",
    "it was shown by @xcite that the long - term apsidal behavior of multi - planet orbital elements may be distinguished between libration and circulation , where the boundary between them is the secular separatrix .",
    "stability simulations conducted by @xcite using coplanar orbits found that several realizations maintained stability through a mean orbital period ratio close to the 4:3 resonance with a librating apsidal trajectory . for our stable configuration with @xmath0 ( see section  [ hd5319 ] ) we computed the apsidal trajectory for the hd  5319 system using the eccentricity of the inner and outer planets ( @xmath1 and @xmath2 respectively ) and the difference in periastron arguments ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "these are represented graphically with polar coordinates in the left panel of figure  [ epsilon ] .",
    "clearly the apsidal trajectory evolution of this system is complex due to both secular and resonant dynamics .",
    "the system begins with librating apsidal modes ( the points clustered near the origin ) but moves to circulating apsidal modes since the polar trajectories encompass the origin .",
    "however , the system can not be readily classified in terms of libration or circulation .    in the case of the hd  7924 system ,",
    "the orbital period ratio for the outer planets is close to the 8:5 mmr .",
    "a coplanar stability simulation by @xcite was only run for @xmath4 years and did not encounter stability issues , nor explore resonances .",
    "similarly as for the hd  5319 system , we calculated apsidal trajectories over the @xmath5 year simulation for the stable configuration with @xmath6 .",
    "the resulting polar coordinates using eccentricities of the outer planets ( @xmath2 and @xmath7 respectively ) are shown in the right panel of figure  [ epsilon ] .",
    "the apsidal modes of the system appear to be circulating although , as noted by @xcite , interpretation of systems with three or more planets is challenging since the secular interactions of all the planets results in a superposition of the various oscillation amplitudes .",
    "the effect of this is the homogeneous spreading of data points around the origin , as seen in the right panel of figure  [ epsilon ] .",
    "+     an important point to note is that period ratios that diverge slightly from resonance , such as those described here , do not imply that the planets concerned do not lie in those resonances .",
    "there are in fact quite few planet pairs that have period ratios occurring exactly at resonance .",
    "it was shown by @xcite that accounting for ongoing orbital dynamics explains the distribution of _ kepler _ planets found to be near mmr .",
    "additionally , it has been demonstrated by @xcite that overstable librations , such as that seen for hd  5319 , can result in eccentricity damping and a subsequent divergence from the expected value of mmr .",
    "the combination of these factors can lead to an orbital evolution that places the period ratio preferentially slightly above the expected mmr , as seen in the dynamical simulations performed by @xcite .",
    "a critical aspect for understanding the stability of a particular system are the accuracy of the orbital elements .",
    "further rv observations of known exoplanet systems at calculated optimal times can provide a dramatic improvement to the planetary orbital parameters @xcite .",
    "such improvement is especially necessary for the eccentricity and argument of periastron ; parameters that are often poorly constrained .",
    "for example , the argument of periastron uncertainties for hd  7924d ( see table  [ planets ] ) are @xmath8 and @xmath9 .",
    "the effect of varying the periastron argument of the outer planet on the proximity of the outermost planetary orbits are visualized as the solid line shown in figure  [ vary ] for hd  5319 ( top ) and hd  7924 ( bottom ) . as described in section  [ system ] , the minimum separation of the orbits for the hd  7924 c and d planets is 0.007  au when using the measured orbital parameters . moving the periastron argument in the negative direction increases the minimum separation of the orbits , whereas a positive shift decreases the minimum separation .",
    "the region where the periastron argument causes the orbits of the planets to cross has been shaded gray and the minimum separation fixed at zero . for mutual inclinations close to zero , such periastron arguments are usually untenable .",
    "the exceptions to this are cases where a mmr can prevent close encounters even with overlapping orbits , as described by @xcite .",
    "since the variation of the argument of periastron can have such a significant effect on the orbital architecture of the system , further observations of these systems are highly encouraged to help resolve the close encounter issue of the outer planets .",
    "to test for system stability as a function of periastron argument , we conducted additional simulations for each system using the methodology described in section  [ method ] .",
    "these simulations assume orbital coplanarity and vary the periastron argument of the outer planet between @xmath10 and @xmath11 in steps of @xmath12 relative to the measured values from table  [ planets ] , shown as vertical dashed lines in each panel of figure  [ vary ] .",
    "our simulations do not find any region of stability for the hd  5319 system in the range of periastron arguments explored for the coplanar case .",
    "an additional parameter to explore would be the variance of eccentricity , and may possibly explain the stable region found by @xcite in the simulation of the same system . for hd  7924 ,",
    "we find several isolated locations of stability including in the region where the orbits cross .",
    "as described above , such orbital architectures are possible when mmr is achieved ensuring that the planets do not experience close encounters over long timescales .",
    "the possibility of system stability at other periastron arguments emphasizes the need for further observations to refine the orbital parameters of the hd  7924 system .",
    "planetary multiplicity within a system can be used to constrain orbital inclination , such as for the hd  10180 system @xcite .",
    "such constraints are normally determined via stability simulations that assume coplanarity for the system .",
    "furthermore , assuming orbital inclinations different from edge - on ( as we have simulated in this work ) can result in a modified dynamical interaction that may be inconsistent with the rv keplerian solution . @xcite",
    "and @xcite investigated this effect for the gj  876 system and found that significant divergence with the rv solution occurs for @xmath13 . for our simulations , we explore the parameter space consisting of @xmath14 , with stable inclinations corresponding to @xmath15 and @xmath16 for hd  5219 and hd  7924 respectively .",
    "thus it is not expected that the change in masses will cause significant divergence from the best - fit keplerian model in our cases .",
    "ultimately , astrometric data will provide the information required to understand the true inclinations of the planetary orbits , both with respect to each other and the plane of the sky .",
    "the gaia mission is an astrometry mission that was successfully launched by the european space agency ( esa ) in 2013 .",
    "as well as determining a vast number of stellar parallaxes , the mission will provide astrometry for known exoplanetary systems in addition to discovering new systems @xcite .",
    "the full capabilities of the gaia mission are described in detail by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "rv multi - planet systems provide excellent opportunities to study the orbital dynamics of keplerian orbits . in some cases ,",
    "such studies reveal complex problems with coplanar assumptions regarding the system , particularly if such an assumption causes the system to be unstable .",
    "a first - order analysis of the system is to determine the proximity of the planetary orbits in relation to the hill radii of the planets .",
    "however , a thorough investigation via n - body numerical simulations is needed to fully resolve such complex cases .",
    "our analysis of the hd  5319 and hd  7924 systems shows that they both suffer from a fundamental instability based upon the precise published orbital parameters , but long - term stable coplanar solutions may still be found within the published one - sigma uncertainities for both systems . through an exhaustive suite of stability simulations that varied the mutual inclinations of the outer planets , we have located inclinations that satisfy system stability over a period of @xmath5 years .",
    "depending upon the system , there may be several such islands of stability in the parameter - space of inclination , keeping in mind that lowering the inclination also increases the mass of the planet in question .",
    "our further analysis of the apsidal trajectory evolution for stable mutual inclinations of the systems show that they can generally be described as having circulating apsidal modes due to orbits of the outer planets that are near mmr .",
    "the complexity involved in achieving a full understanding of system stabilities is compounded by the uncertainty in the keplerian orbital elements .",
    "further rv and astrometric data for these and other similar systems will aid enormously in resolving the close encounters evident in the system architectures .",
    "the author would like to thank jonti horner for useful discussions on the stability simulations .",
    "thanks are also due to the anonymous referee , whose comments greatly improved the quality of the paper . this research has made use of the following archives : the exoplanet orbit database and the exoplanet data explorer at exoplanets.org , the habitable zone gallery at hzgallery.org , and the nasa exoplanet archive , which is operated by the california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration under the exoplanet exploration program .",
    "the results reported herein benefited from collaborations and/or information exchange within nasa s nexus for exoplanet system science ( nexss ) research coordination network sponsored by nasa s science mission directorate .",
    "antoniadou , k.i . ,",
    "voyatzis , g. 2014 , ap&ss , 349 , 657 bailer - jones , c.a.l . , andrae , r. , arcay , b. , et al .",
    "2013 , a&a , 559 , 74 barnes , r. , greenberg , r. 2006 , apj , 647 , l163 barnes , r. , greenberg , r. 2006 , apj , 652 , l53 barnes , r. , greenberg , r. 2007 , apj , 6665 , l67 barnes , r. , deitrick , r. , greenberg , r. , quinn , t.r . ,",
    "raymond , s.n .",
    "2015 , apj , 801 , 101 chambers , j.e .",
    "1999 , mnras , 304 , 793 de bruijne , j.h.j .",
    "2012 , ap&ss , 341 , 31 duncan , m.j . ,",
    "levison , h.f .",
    ", lee , m.h .",
    "1998 , aj , 116 , 2067 ford , e.b .",
    "2008 , aj , 135 , 1008 fulton , b.j . , weiss , l.m . ,",
    "sinukoff , e. , et al .",
    "2015 , apj , 805 , 175 giguere , m.j . ,",
    "fischer , d.a . ,",
    "howard , a.w . , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 744 , 4 giguere , m.j . ,",
    "fischer , d.a . ,",
    "payne , m.j . , et al .",
    "2015 , apj , 799 , 89 goldreich , p. , schlichting , h.e .",
    "2014 , aj , 147 , 32 howard , a.w . ,",
    "johnson , j.a . ,",
    "marcy , g.w .",
    ", et al . 2009 , apj , 696 , 75 kane , s.r . , mahadevan , s. , von braun , k. , laughlin , g. , ciardi , d.r . 2009 , pasp , 121 , 1386 kane , s.r . , gelino , d.m . 2014 , apj , 792 , 111 kane , s.r . ,",
    "raymond , s.n .",
    "2014 , apj , 784 , 104 kane , s.r .",
    "2015 , apj , 814 , l9 laughlin , g. , chambers , j.e .",
    "2001 , apj , 551 , l109 lovis , c. , sgransan , d. , mayor , m. , et al .",
    "2011 , a&a , 528 , 112 marzari , f. , scholl , h. , tricarico , p. 2006",
    ", a&a , 453 , 341 perryman , m. , hartman , j. , bakos , g.a . ,",
    "lindegren , l. 2014 , apj , 797 , 14 petrovich , c. , malhotra , r. , tremaine , s. 2013 , apj , 770 , 24 rivera , e.j . ,",
    "lissauer , j.j .",
    "2001 , apj , 558 , 392 robinson , s.e . , laughlin , g. , vogt , s.s . ,",
    "2007 , apj , 670 , 1391 smith , a.w . , lissauer , j.j .",
    "2009 , icarus , 201 , 381 varadi , f. 1999 , aj , 118 , 2526 wisdom , j. , holman , m. 1991 , aj , 102 , 1528 wisdom , j. 2006 , aj , 131 , 2294 wright , j.t . , howard , a.w . 2009 , apjs , 182 , 205"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> radial velocity searches for exoplanets have detected many multi - planet systems around nearby bright stars . </S>",
    "<S> an advantage of this technique is that it generally samples the orbit outside of inferior / superior conjunction , potentially allowing the keplerian elements of eccentricity and argument of periastron to be well characterized . </S>",
    "<S> the orbital architectures for some of these systems show signs of close planetary encounters that may render the systems unstable as described . </S>",
    "<S> we provide an in - depth analysis of two such systems : hd  5319 and hd  7924 , for which the scenario of coplanar orbits results in their rapid destabilization . </S>",
    "<S> the poorly constrained periastron arguments of the outer planets in these systems further emphasizes the need for detailed investigations . </S>",
    "<S> an exhaustive scan of parameter space via dynamical simulations reveals specific mutual inclinations between the two outer planets in each system that allow for stable configurations over long timescales . </S>",
    "<S> we compare these configurations with those presented by mean - motion resonance as possible stability sources . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we discuss the relevance to interpretation of multi - planet keplerian orbits and suggest additional observations that will help to resolve the system stabilities . </S>"
  ]
}