{
  "article_text": [
    "the extraordinary micro - quasar black hole system , grs 1915 + 105 was the primary subject of a large number of rossi x - ray timing explorer ( rxte ) observations that has revealed its complex spectral and timing behavior which needs to be classified into more than twelve distinct variability classes @xcite .",
    "it is the first galactic black hole x - ray binary where superluminal jet has been discovered @xcite .",
    "extensive study revealed variations in its radio flux ( at 15.2 ghz ) from few to few hundreds of millijy in different variability classes @xcite as well as in the same variability class @xcite .",
    "this source has been extensively studied to understand the disk - jet connection in x - ray binaries @xcite .    during some of these classes",
    "the source shows large amplitude variability in flux and spectral shape on time - scales of minutes to hours @xcite , while in others the source is relatively steady .",
    "even when the source is relatively quiet on minute time - scales , detailed analysis often show strong coherent quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) with frequencies of the order of a few hz @xcite .",
    "interestingly , one of the promising model for these oscillations is that the variation is produced by the inner disk globally precessing due to the lens - thirring effect around a spinning black hole @xcite .",
    "evidence for such a behavior is inferred from the time - averaged spectrum and the variation of the qpo properties with intensity and corresponding spectral parameters @xcite .",
    "perhaps more importantly , energy dependent qpo properties such as fractional rms and time - lag between different energy bins provide crucial information regarding such phenomena @xcite .",
    "[ obs1 ]    most of the combined spectral and timing analysis of such sources like grs 1915 + 105 , have been done using the _ rxte _ proportional counter array ( pca ) data , which despite the wealth of information they provided , were limited due to several reasons . due to telemetry constraints , the _ rxte _ data of bright sources on many occasions were binned in channels on - board , leaving only a few broad energy bands for which analysis could be undertaken .",
    "the effective area of the proportional counter units ( pcus ) decreased rapidly beyond 30 kev @xcite and hence the statistics for high energy photons were usually not sufficient to do any detailed timing analysis . despite efforts to improve the calibration @xcite , the spectral analysis",
    "was typically limited to the 330 kev band and hence one had to rely on rare simultaneous observations of the source from other satellites to obtain broadband spectral data .",
    "_ astrosat _ , the first indian astronomical satellite which was successfully launched on september 28 , 2015 has five scientific instruments on board @xcite .",
    "one of the primary instruments is the large area x - ray proportional counters ( laxpc ) which consists of three identical proportional counter units adding up to an effective area of @xmath4 @xmath5 at 15 kev @xcite .",
    "after launch , laxpc went through a series of performance verification tests where it observed different blank sky coordinates , standard sources and sources of scientific interest .",
    "these tests have allowed for the calibration and estimation of the instrument spectral response , background characteristic and timing capabilities which will be presented in detail elsewhere .",
    "here we provide a first estimate of the characteristics of the instrument and compare them with those of _",
    "rxte_/pca and _ nustar _ in table [ obs1 ] .",
    "nustar _ is an imaging instrument , the laxpc provides several advantages as compared to the _ rxte_/pca .",
    "the effective area of the laxpc at energies greater than 30 kev is significantly larger than the pca ( table [ obs1 ] ) .",
    "the complete event data obtained allows for energy dependent analysis of any choice of energy bins .",
    "the other co - pointing instruments on board _ astrosat _ especially the soft x - ray telescope ( sxt ) can provide critical spectral coverage below 3 kev .",
    "[ obs ]    as a part of the performance verification , during 57 march 2016 , _ astrosat _ observed the black hole system grs 1915 + 105 for many orbits and for nine of them the flux was relatively steady on time - scales of minutes suggestive that they belong to radio - quiet @xmath0 class .",
    "grs 1915 + 105 moves to this class from @xmath6 class and at the end of @xmath0 class , the source again returned to the @xmath6 class .",
    "therefore , grs 1915 + 105 remains for @xmath7 hrs in the steep power law ( spl ) state which is a subclass of @xmath0 class .",
    "x - ray activity in grs 1915 + 105 have been classified in twelve different classes .",
    "@xmath0 class is characterized by hard spectrum with low frequency qpo while @xmath6 class is a flaring x - ray class associated with transient radio jets every 20  30 minutes @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we present the first look spectral and timing analysis of these observations , with particular emphasis on the high energy behavior .",
    "in this work we present analysis of nine laxpc observations of grs 1915 + 105 as listed in table [ obs ] . each of them were obtained from a single orbit with effective exposure of @xmath8 13 ksec each .",
    "a typical 1 ksec lightcurve observed during orbit no .",
    "2363 is shown in figure [ lightcurve ] where count rate from all three laxpc units are combined .",
    "we begin with the time averaged spectral analysis of these observations .",
    "while the complete detailed description of laxpc performance and calibration will be presented elsewhere @xcite , here we highlight some of the basic points .",
    "the response function for each of the laxpc units was computed using geant4 simulations .",
    "most of the background is coming from cosmic diffused x - ray background .",
    "the background for each of the unit was modeled as a function of the latitude and longitude of the satellite @xcite .",
    "there are differences between the observed background and the model at a level of about 4% which is not understood so far . in this work ,",
    "the timing analysis is for frequencies much larger than 0.01 hz and the background is stable on these timescales .",
    "we have checked that the power spectra for crab and the background show no spurious signals at these frequencies .",
    "the source spectra , lightcurves and background spectra were extracted using software which will become part of the standard pipeline for the laxpc .",
    "the spectral fitting was done using the xspec v 12.8.1 g spectral fitting package .",
    "the laxpc consists of three identical proportional counter detectors units which are named as laxpc10 , laxpc20 and laxpc30 .",
    "we checked that joint spectral fitting of laxpc10 and simultaneous _",
    "observations of crab produced the expected best fit power - law index of @xmath9 with the normalization constant of laxpc relative to _ nustar _ giving the effective area quoted earlier . for the fitting a 4% uncertainty",
    "was added to the background ( which needs to be dead time corrected for bright sources ) and a 1.5% overall systematic is added to the spectrum to account for the uncertainty in the response .",
    "we use these values throughout this work .",
    "the complete energy spectrum of the laxpc 10 were represented by 512 pha bins of which 292 of them lie within the energy range of 380 kev .",
    "this gives an average energy bin size of @xmath10 kev which is approximately a fourth of the approximate energy resolution of laxpc at 6 kev i.e. @xmath11 kev .",
    "however at higher energies the spectra would be oversampled and more detailed later work should rebin the spectra based on the energy resolution , once the response of the detector is better understood and modeled .",
    "figure [ spec ] shows the counts spectrum of laxpc10 for the observation of orbit no .",
    "2363 which was fitted by a model consisting of a disk black body component ( xspec model diskbb ) , a thermal comptonized component ( xspec model nthcomp ) and a broad gaussian feature ( xspec model gaussian ) to represent the iron line .",
    "the disk blackbody component was taken to be the seed photon source for the comptonization .",
    "all spectra are modified by the presence of neutral hydrogen absorption which has been taken care by using tbabs model @xcite .",
    "grs 1915 + 105 has high intrinsic absorption with equivalent neutral column density of the order of few times @xmath12 @xmath13 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the laxpc data is sensitive only beyond 3 kev making it difficult to constrain the column density and hence it was fixed to a value of @xmath14 @xmath13 .",
    "the thick blue line represents the expected background count rate for the observation .",
    "the bottom panel shows strong residuals which may be due to uncertainties in the response function .",
    "indeed , if an overall systematic of 1.5% is added ( with 4% uncertainty in background ) , the fitting gives an acceptable @xmath15 in place of @xmath16 ( without the systematic ) .",
    "some of the parameters obtained were the disk temperature @xmath17 kev , the comptonization photon index @xmath18 and electron temperature @xmath19 kev .",
    "similar fits were obtained for all nine observations . while detailed tabulation of the best fit spectral parameters using different spectral models will be shown elsewhere , here we highlight some of the generic results .",
    "the normalization of the disk blackbody emission seems to decrease slightly with luminosity ( top panel of figure [ lumvar ] ) but the large errorbars do not allow for concrete statements to be made . for the mass and distance assumed for this source , the typical value of the normalization would imply an inner radius of @xmath20 for a color factor @xmath21 @xcite , suggesting that disk extends to be truncated for a fast spinning blackhole @xcite .",
    "moreover , for the nine observations , the temperature of the comptonizing medium was found to be around @xmath22 kev .",
    "the fraction of the disk component flux to the total does not seem to show any correlation as shown in the bottom panel of figure [ lumvar ] . however , more detailed investigations taking into account more physical models like gravitationally smeared disk and iron line emission ( instead of the simple diskbb model and broad gaussian used here ) need to be undertaken before any inferences can be made .",
    "we defer such analysis to the future when we expect to have significantly better instrument response and background modeling than the currently available version .",
    "the high telemetry of _ astrosat _ allows for laxpc data to be obtained in event mode for high count rate sources at the instrument time resolution .",
    "this provides an unprecedented opportunity to study the rapid variability of bright sources .    as an example to demonstrate the capability of laxpc to detect high frequency variability , we consider just one observation of effective exposure @xmath23 ksec , i.e. , orbit no .",
    "2363 . using the event mode data at the time resolution of 10 microseconds ,",
    "the power spectrum up to a nyquist frequency of 50 khz was computed for counts in the energy range 3.080.0 kev .",
    "data from all three units were combined .",
    "the light curve was divided into segments of 2048 bins corresponding to 0.02048 seconds .",
    "the total exposure consists of 97655 segments .",
    "the power spectrum generated at 1024 frequency points was rebinned and shown in figure [ power_all ] . the rise in the power spectrum at low frequencies ( @xmath24 hz ) is due to low frequency variability of the source while the structure at high frequencies is due to the characteristic effect of dead time .",
    "the expected dead time corrected poisson level power for a system which is non - paralyzable is given by @xcite    @xmath25\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    here , @xmath26 is the dead time and @xmath27 is the observed rate in the energy band being considered .",
    "@xmath28 is the dead - time corrected observed count rate for the detector , i.e. @xmath29 where @xmath30 is the observed total count rate and @xmath31 .",
    "@xmath32 is the average dead time corrected count rate per detector i.e. @xmath33 with @xmath34 being the number of laxpc units being considered .    for the low frequency variability we consider a power - law @xmath35 and hence the total function",
    "is taken to be @xmath36 and we fit the unbinned observed power spectrum consisting of 1024 frequency bins .",
    "the mean effective dead time as measured on the ground was around 50 microseconds but it has variations depending on the kind of event detected and hence is not a constant as assumed in the above equation .",
    "hence , we attempt to obtain an average value of dead - time by fitting the parameters , @xmath37 and @xmath26 and keeping the rest of the parameters fixed at their observed values , i.e. , @xmath38 and @xmath39 counts / s .",
    "the fit gave a @xmath40 or a reduced @xmath41 .",
    "the best fit average dead time was found to be @xmath42 microseconds .",
    "the best fit curve is shown as a dotted blue line in figure [ power_all ] .",
    "thus , considering all the uncertainties , the expected dead time corrected power spectrum is remarkably close to the observed one .",
    "in fact , a @xmath43 percent systematic uncertainty added in quadrature to the power spectrum yields a reduced @xmath44 , showing the level at which the power spectrum can be trusted in these high frequencies .",
    "the sensitivity of the instrument can be further seen by the dotted line in figure [ power_all ] , which represents the expected peak of the power spectrum for a lorentzian shaped quasi - periodic oscillation ( qpo ) , with a quality factor @xmath45 and rms of 5% , i.e. , @xmath46 .",
    "thus , a qpo of this strength and quality factor would have easily been detected by laxpc for a source like grs 1915 + 105 in a 3 ksec observation if its frequency was less than 3000 hz .    since high frequency features when seen in black hole systems are stronger at higher energies and sometimes can only be detected at high energies @xcite , we verify laxpc capability to detect such qpos in the 2080 kev band . in this band for the observation under consideration the count rate observed was 396 counts / sec .",
    "figure [ power_high ] shows the rebinned power spectrum and the expected poisson noise level at this energy band . while some features can be seen , they are not significant in the sense that a fit to the power spectrum using just the noise level and low frequency component , gives a reduced @xmath47 .",
    "the expected peak power for a qpo with the quality factor q = 4 and rms 5% ( green line in figure [ power_high ] ) shows that such a qpo would have been only marginally detected by laxpc for this observation .",
    "having established the expected result that the source does not show any strong high frequency phenomena , we turn our attention to the behavior of the source in low frequencies i.e. , @xmath48 hz .",
    "to begin , we compute hardness intensity and color - color plots to understand the overall spectral variability of the source .",
    "light curves were extracted from all three units in different energy bands and the dead time corrected background in that band ( i.e. , @xmath49 ) was subtracted .",
    "the top panel of figure [ hardness ] shows the hardness ratio between the 815 and 38 kev band versus the intensity in the 315 kev with a time bin of 0.25 secs .",
    "the source clearly hardens as it gets brighter which is better illustrated when the points corresponding to an intensity bins are averaged ( solid line in the figure ) .",
    "more remarkable is that laxpc allows a hardness intensity plot to be made in a broader energy ranges of 315 and 1540 kev bands as shown in the bottom panel of figure [ hardness ] .",
    "the behavior of the source is found to be similar to the softer bands . that such an analysis can be undertaken shows that laxpc data is well suited for more sophisticated analysis such as flux or even frequency resolved spectroscopy which will be undertaken in a future work .",
    "the laxpc observations allows the computation of power spectra in different energy bands . as an illustration , in figure [ power ] the power spectra in three energy bands",
    " 3.08.0 ( left column ) , 8.020.0 ( middle column ) and 20.080.0 ( right column ) kev are shown for three representative observations .",
    "the dead time ( @xmath50sec ) corrected poisson noise level has been subtracted from each power spectrum .",
    "the low energy power spectra clearly shows a quasi periodic oscillation ( qpo ) at 27 hz along with a harmonic for some of the observations which are fitted using lorentzians .",
    "complex broad band continuum noise is seen for all the spectra which has been empirically fitted using a broken power - law and a few broad band lorentzians depending on the energy .",
    "the bottom panels show residuals in terms of @xmath0 and it is clear that the high quality data requires more sophisticated analysis rather than the empirical one adopted here . in particular , the power spectra as well as the qpo frequencies would not be stationary even during a single observation and dynamical or flux resolved power spectra are needed to quantify the changes . while deferring such a detailed analysis for later , here we bring out the broad results that the qpo is detected at high energies and that the shape of the power spectrum significantly evolves with energy .",
    "the shape changes with frequency of the qpo and there is an additional broad noise component particularly at 820 kev for high qpo frequencies .",
    "such detailed energy dependent power spectra is a significant improvement over the earlier _ rxte _ results .",
    "as expected the qpo frequency varies with flux as shown in figure [ qpoedd ] which shows the qpo frequency as a function of the eddington fraction .",
    "it is quite remarkable that the frequency changed by about 4 hz with near doubling of the luminosity in a relatively short time of @xmath8 5 hours ( as shown in table [ obs ] ) .",
    "the complete event mode data obtained from laxpcs allows time - lags to be computed between different user chosen energy bands .",
    "this is demonstrated in figure [ timelag ] where the middle column shows the measured time - lag at the qpo frequency for the three representative observations .",
    "the complete power spectra for 380 kev is shown in the left column .",
    "the time - lag is with reference to the 34 kev band and choice of energy bins is arbitrary .",
    "the time lags have a non - monotonic nature in the sense that typically the photons of @xmath51 kev arise before the low energy ones ( i.e. , a soft lag ) but for higher energies the time lag decreases , i.e. , typically the 50 kev photons have significantly less lag .",
    "the background corrected root mean square ( r.m.s . )",
    "variability of the qpo increases till about @xmath52 kev and then seems to saturate as shown in the right column of figure [ timelag ] .",
    "however , while the qpo is detected at high energies and hence the time - lag measurements , the 4% uncertainity in the background rate does not allow for accurate measurement of the normalized r.m.s .",
    "above @xmath53 kev .",
    "this may improve once more accurate background models are available .",
    "while the energy dependent time - lag for energies @xmath54 kev is qualitatively similar to that observed by _ rxte _",
    "@xcite , laxpc reveals that their behavior changes dramatically for high energies .",
    "time - lag measurements may suffer from instrumental behavior such as dead time or other such effects which may produce fake correlations between count variation in different energy bands .",
    "the completely independent electronics of the different detectors in laxpc instrument allows one to check if such effects are affecting the results . in figure [ crosstimelag ] the time - lags for the @xmath55",
    "hz are again measured as a function of energy but here the reference band ( 34 kev ) is taken from laxpc10 and the others from laxpc20 ( black points ) and vice versa ( red points ) .",
    "the behavior of the energy dependent time lag is reproduced in the cross pcu analysis giving confidence that the overall results obtained from the combined analysis is correct .    for",
    "the qpo observed at @xmath55 hz , the next harmonic is detected clearly in high energy bins and thus one can measure as shown in the left panel of figure [ rmsfreq ] , the time - lag as function of energy for both the qpo and its harmonic . as was known before for low energies using",
    "_ rxte _ data @xcite , the time lag for the harmonic is of the opposite sign ( i.e. the time lag is hard ) as compared to the fundamental where the time - lag is soft .",
    "the time lags , @xmath56 , or more conveniently the phase lags @xmath57 can also be measured as a function of frequency @xmath58 which is shown in the middle panel of figure [ rmsfreq ] . here",
    "the lag is measured between 1020 kev band and the 35 kev band where the choice of energy bands is motivated by the shape of the energy dependent time lag of the qpo .",
    "the soft phase lag at the qpo frequency of 2.55 hz is clearly seen in figure [ rmsfreq ] while the phase lag is positive at its harmonic of 5.03 hz . the right panel of figure [ rmsfreq ] shows the variation of the fractional rms of the qpo and the next harmonic .",
    "in this work , we have presented the first - look analysis of nine orbits of _ astrosat_/laxpc data of grs 1915 + 105 , which resulted in nine observations with exposures varying between 700 sec and 3200 sec .",
    "the primary results are :    @xmath59 the energy spectra for each observation can be well fitted by an empirical model consisting of a disk black body , thermal comptonization and an iron line represented by a broad gaussian . the systematic uncertainty of 4% for the background and 1.5% for the response provided acceptable fits to all spectra , which benchmarks laxpc spectral capabilities .",
    "@xmath59 for a single @xmath60 ksec observation , the high frequency power spectrum from 100  50,000 hz , can be described by a simple dead time model with an effective dead time of @xmath61 microseconds .",
    "moreover , it is shown that a qpo with quality factor @xmath62 and fractional rms of 5% would have been detectable easily till 3000 hz .",
    "@xmath59 using 0.25 second time bins , hardness intensity and colour - colour diagrams for a @xmath60 ksec observations can be generated using not only soft but also hard ( e.g. , 1540 kev ) bands .",
    "the source shows increasing hardness with intensity in both soft and hard bands .",
    "@xmath59 power spectra for three energy bins 38 , 820 and 2080 kev for each observation shows a prominent qpo whose frequency varies from 2.55 to 6.55 hz as the flux increases by a factor of 2 on a 6 hour time - scale .",
    "the broad band continuum noise is complex and shows variation with flux as well as with energy .",
    "for example ,  a significant excess noise component appears for higher qpo frequencies in the 820 kev band .",
    "@xmath59 at the qpo frequency , the time - lag with respect to the 34 kev band decreases with energy till @xmath63 kev as expected from earlier _ rxte _ results for the radio quiet @xmath0 class of grs 1915 + 105 .",
    "laxpc larger effective area at higher energies reveals that the lags are non - monotonic and beyond @xmath63 kev the time lag increases with energy .",
    "the time - lag for the next harmonic has the opposite sign as the fundamental and does not seem to roll over at high energies . since the electronics of the pcus are independent , we have confirmed the time - lag behavior using one pcu for the reference band and the another for the different bands .    during the nine observations with laxpc , we infer that grs 1915 + 105 was in the radio - quiet @xmath0 class ( spl subclass ) .",
    "there are three characteristics of these observations that are consistent with earlier detection of this class with _",
    "rxte_. namely , ( i ) the radio - quiet @xmath0 class shows a qpo with frequencies always higher than @xmath64 hz and the time lag spectra at qpo frequencies always show a soft lag @xcite , ( ii ) near - simultaneous measurement of radio flux density using the giant meterwave radio telescope ( gmrt ) at 610 mhz yielded a value of @xmath65 mjy which is similar to that observed during radio - quiet @xmath0 class ( see right panel of figure 1 in @xcite ) and ( iii ) the phase lag between two energy bands as a function of fourier frequency is similar to that observed from radio - quiet @xmath0 class .",
    "these results benchmark the performance of laxpc as well as bring out interesting first results which highlight the utility of laxpc s larger effective area at high energies and event mode data .",
    "for example , the extension of the variation of the time lag to high energies brings out the potential to uncover the actual mechanism of the qpo .",
    "the qpo could be due to the precession of the inner disk due to lens - thirring effect and in that case the time - lag may be due to light travel time effects of the irradiation by the inner disk on the non - precessing outer one @xcite .",
    "the turn over of the time - lag at high energies would then suggest that perhaps it is due to the reflection bump being prominent at those energies and hence the delay with respect to the continuum at @xmath63 kev .",
    "detailed spectroscopic information regarding the contribution of the reflection component in high energies and the expected light travel time - delays can reveal whether such a picture is correct or not .",
    "alternatively , in an entirely different scenario , the qpo could be due to accretion rate variations which induces a delayed response of the inner disk radius ( droid ) .",
    "such a model successfully predicts similar non - monotonic behavior of the time - lag and rms for the fundamental and next harmonic for mhz qpo of the same source @xcite .",
    "again detailed analysis taking into account the time averaged spectrum need to be undertaken to find whether such a model is also valid for qpos with frequencies of few hz .",
    "reanalysis of the data presented with more sophisticated spectral fitting along with data from the soft x - ray telescope onboard _ astrosat _ , as well as more detailed timing analysis such as dynamic power spectra , flux and frequency resolved spectroscopy , will provide unprecedented insight into the temporal behavior of grs 1915 + 105 and other black hole systems .",
    "we acknowledge the strong support from indian space research organization ( isro ) in various aspect of instrument building , testing , software development and mission operation during payload verification phase .",
    "we acknowledge support of tifr central workshop during the design and testing of the payload .",
    "we thank the staff of the gmrt that made radio observations possible .",
    "gmrt is run by the national centre for radio astrophysics of the tata institute of fundamental research .",
    "99 antia , h. m. et al . , 2016 ( under preparation )",
    "agrawal , p. c. , 2006 , adspr , 38 , 2989 agrawal , p. c. et al . , 2016 ( under preparation ) bachetti , m. , harrison , fiona a. , cook , r. , tomsick , j. , christian schmid , c. , grefenstette , brian w. , et al .",
    "2015 , apj , 800 , 109 belloni , t. , klein - wolt , m. , medez , m. , van der klis , m. , van paradijs , j. 2000 , a&a , 355 , 271 cui , wei , shrader , chris r. , haswell , carole a. , hynes , robert i. 2000 , apj , 535 , l123 fender , rob , belloni , tomaso 2004 , ara&a , 42 , 317 fender , r. p. , garrington , s. t. , mckay , d. j. , muxlow , t. w. b. , pooley , g. g. , spencer , r. e. , stirling , a. m. , waltman , e. b. 1999 , mnras , 304 , 865 harrison , fiona a. , craig , william w. , christensen , finn e. , hailey , charles j. , zhang , william w. , boggs , steven e. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 770 , 103 homan , jeroen , klein - wolt , marc , rossi , sabrina , miller , jon m. , wijnands , rudy , belloni , tomaso , van der klis , michiel , lewin , walter h. g. 2003 , apj , 586 , 1262 ingram , adam , van der klis , michiel 2015 , mnras , 446 , 351 ingram , a. , done , c. , fragile , p. c. 2009 , mnras , 397 , l101 jahoda , keith , markwardt , craig b. , radeva , yana , rots , arnold h. , stark , michael j. , swank , jean h. , strohmayer , tod e. , zhang , william 2006 , apjs , 163 , 401 mcclintock , jeffrey e. , shafee , rebecca , narayan , ramesh , remillard , ronald a. , davis , shane w. , li , li - xin 2006 , apj , 652 , 518 mir , mubashir hamid , misra , ranjeev , pahari , mayukh , iqbal , naseer , ahmad , naveel 2016 , mnras , 457 , 2999 mirabel , i. f. , dhawan , v. , chaty , s. , rodriguez , l. f. , marti , j. , robinson , c. r. , swank , j. , geballe , t. 1998 , a&a , 330 , l9 morgan , e. h. , remillard , r. a. , greiner , j. 1997 , apj , 482 , 993 muno , michael p. , remillard , ronald a. , morgan , edward h. , waltman , elizabeth b. , dhawan , vivek , hjellming , robert m. , pooley , guy 2001 , apj , 556 , 515 muno , michael p. , morgan , edward h. , remillard , ronald a. 1999 , apj , 527 , 321 pahari , mayukh , misra , ranjeev , mukherjee , arunava , yadav , j. s. , pandey , s. k. 2013a , mnras , 436 , 2334 pahari , mayukh , neilsen , joseph , yadav , j. s. , misra , ranjeev , uttley , phil 2013b , apj , 778 , 136 pahari , mayukh , yadav , j. s. , rodriguez , jeome , misra , ranjeev , bhattacharyya , sudip , pandey , s. k. 2013c , apj , 778 , 46 paul , b. , agrawal , p. c. , rao , a. r. , vahia , m. n. , yadav , j. s. , seetha , s. , kasturirangan , k. , 1998 , apj , 492 , l66 paul , b. , agrawal , p. c. , rao , a. r. , vahia , m. n , yadav , j. s. , marar , t. m. k. , seetha , s. , kasturirangan , k. , 1997 , a&a , 320 , l37 qu , j. l. , lu , f. j. , lu , y. , song , l. m. , zhang , s. , ding , g. q. , wang , j. m. 2010 , apj , 710 , 836 reid , m. j. , mcclintock , j. e. , steiner , j. f. , steeghs , d. , remillard , r. a. , dhawan , v. , narayan , r. 2014 , apj , 796 , 2 reig , p. , belloni , t. , van der klis , m. , medez , m. , kylafis , n. d. , ford , e. c. 2000 , apj , 541 , 883 shaposhnikov , n. , jahoda , k. , markwardt , c. , swank , j. , strohmayer , t. 2012 , apj , 757 , 159 shimura , toshiya , takahara , fumio 1995 , apj , 445 , 780 singh , kulinder pal , tandon , s. n. , agrawal , p. c. , antia , h. m. , manchanda , r. k. , yadav , j. s. et al .",
    "2014 , spie , 9144 , 1 stella , l. , vietri , m. 1998 , apj , 492 , l59 taam , ronald e. , chen , xingming , swank , jean h. 1997 , apj , 485 , l83 wilms , j. , allen , a. , mccray , r. 2000 , apj , 542 , 912 yadav , j. s. , agrawal , p. c. , antia , h. m. , jai verdhan chauhan , dhiraj dedhia , tilak katoch , p. madhwani , manchanda , r. k. , ranjeev misra , mayukh pahari , paul , b. , shah , p. , 2016",
    ", spie , 9905 , 9905 1d yadav , j. s. 2006 , apj , 646 , 385 yadav , j. s. 2001 , apj , 548 , 876 yadav , j. s. , rao , a. r. , agrawal , p. c. , paul , b. , seetha , s. , kasturirangan , k. , 1999 , apj , 517 , 935 zhang , w. , jahoda , k. , swank , j. h. , morgan , e. h. , giles , a. b. 1995 , apj , 449 , 930"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first quick look analysis of data from nine _ astrosat _ s laxpc observations of grs 1915 + 105 during march 2016 when the source had the characteristics of being in radio - quiet @xmath0 class . </S>",
    "<S> we find that a simple empirical model of a disk blackbody emission , with comptonization and a broad gaussian iron line can fit the time averaged 380 kev spectrum with a systematic uncertainty of 1.5% and a background flux uncertainty of 4% . </S>",
    "<S> a simple deadtime - corrected poisson noise level spectrum matches well with the observed high frequency power spectra till 50 khz and as expected the data show no significant high frequency ( @xmath1 hz ) features . </S>",
    "<S> energy dependent power spectra reveal a strong low frequency ( 2  8 hz ) quasi - periodic oscillation ( lfqpo ) and its harmonic along with broad band noise . </S>",
    "<S> the qpo frequency changes rapidly with flux ( nearly 4 hz in @xmath2 hours ) . </S>",
    "<S> with increasing qpo frequency , an excess noise component appears significantly in the high energy regime ( @xmath3 kev ) . at the qpo frequencies , the time - lag as a function of energy </S>",
    "<S> has a non - monotonic behavior such that the lags decrease with energy till about 1520 kev and then increase for higher energies . </S>",
    "<S> these first look results benchmark the performance of laxpc at high energies and confirms that its data can be used for more sophisticated analysis such as flux or frequency - resolved spectro - timing studies .    </S>",
    "<S> accepted for publication in astrophysical journal ; 23rd august 2016 </S>"
  ]
}