{
  "article_text": [
    "twitter has become one of the main stages of political activity both among politicians and partisan crowds .",
    "we have seen huge political mobilizations over twitter in recent uprisings such as the arab spring and the gezi protests @xcite . since then",
    ", politicians have been engaging in using twitter to attract supporters and people have been using it to express their political views and opinions on various leaders and issues .",
    "community detection is a fundamental task in social network analysis @xcite .",
    "a community @xcite can be defined as a group of users that ( 1 ) interact with each other more frequently than with those outside the group and ( 2 ) are more similar to each other than to those outside the group .",
    "utilizing community detection algorithms to detect online political camps has attracted many researchers @xcite . in this work ,",
    "we propose three nonnegative matrix factorization frameworks to exploit both user connectivity and content information in twitter to find ideologically pure communities in terms of their members political orientations .",
    "twitter presents three types of connectivity information between users : follow , retweet and user mention . in this paper",
    ", we do not use follow information since follow relationships correspond to longer - term structural bonds @xcite and it remains challenging to determine if a follow relationship between a pair of users indicate political support or opposition .",
    "furthermore , it has been observed that neither user retweets nor user mentions always indicate endorsement in twitter @xcite .",
    "however in the political sub - domain of twitter , it has been shown that retweets tend to happen between like - minded users rather than between members of opposing camps @xcite .    using both connectivity and content information for community detection in social networks",
    "has been a popular approach among many researchers prior works @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite . in @xcite ,",
    "tang et al .",
    "propose a general framework for integrating multiple heterogenous data sources for community detection .",
    "tang s work does not pay attention to identifying the endorsement subgraph of the connectivity graph . in @xcite sachan et al .",
    "propose an lda - like social interaction model by representing user connectivity as a document alongside message content .",
    "this approach also does not discriminate between positive or negative user engagement . in @xcite , ruan et al .",
    "propose to use a filtered graph to eliminate ambiguous interactions by checking content similarity in the user s neighborhood . in this formulation ,",
    "only local content patterns are taken into consideration whereas in our formulations we incorporate the global content patterns into our optimization framework .",
    "the contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows :    * we start with _ retweets without edits _ as indicators of positive endorsements between users and utilize heider s p - o - x triad balance theory @xcite to incorporate selected \" structurally balanced  _ edited retweets _ and _ user mentions _ into a weighted undirected connectivity graph as additional indicators of positive endorsements . *",
    "we develop algorithms which incorporate users content information in our community detection frameworks to overcome the sparse nature of twitter connectivity networks .",
    "we break down twitter message content into three categories ; words , hashtags and urls , and design experiments to measure the performance contributions of each category . proposed nonnegative matrix factorization ( nmf ) algorithms use user - word , user - hashtag and user - domain frequency matrices to be factorized into lower rank user vector representations while regularizing over user connectivity and content similarity to map users into their respective communities .",
    "pei et al . in @xcite also model the problem as nonnegative matrix tri - factorization problem which factorizes user - word , tweet - word and user - user matrices into lower rank representations of users and tweets while regularizing it with user interaction and message similarity matrices .",
    "they build user - user connectivity matrix by utilizing the structural follow relationships which do not capture dynamic political context - sensitive engagement .",
    "they treat all user mentions and retweets identically and without any discrimination for endorsement .",
    "their framework also lacks word similarity regularization .",
    "we develop and experiment with three nonnegative matrix factorization frameworks : multinmf , trinmf , dualnmf , which incorporate connectivity alongside different types of content information as regularizers . after experimenting with different dimensions of user content and different types of induced connectivity networks we discovered that incorporating more information does not necessarily yield higher clustering performance .",
    "highest quality clustering is achieved through endorsement filtered connectivity based on methods we develop in section [ sec : tsb ] alongside user - word matrix based content regularization .",
    "our dualnmf framework gives purity scores around 88% , adjusted rand index around 75% and nmi around 67% .",
    "it improves all of the other baseline methods significantly as presented in section [ sec : exps ] and it also improves over the nmtf framework developed recently by pei et al .",
    "@xcite by 8% in purity , 47% in ari and by up to 60% in nmi metrics .",
    "proposed endorsement filtered sub - graph of user mentions and retweets also improves all baseline methods in almost all of the experimental setups by up to 109% in nmi , 71% in ari and 17% in purity .    the rest of the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section [ sec : relatedwork ] briefly surveys related work . in section [ sec : tsb ] , we present heider s theory of p - o - x structural balance of triads and its application to retweet and mention graphs to identify endorsement filtered user connectivity networks . in section [ sec : proposedmethods ] , we introduce our three nonnegative matrix factorization frameworks for community detection . in section",
    "[ sec : exps ] , we present our experimental design , evaluation metrics and results . section [ sec : conclusion ] concludes the paper and discusses future work .",
    "since the introduction of the modularity metric by newman in @xcite , plenty of modularity based community detection methods have been proposed in the literature @xcite .",
    "we employ blondel et al .",
    "@xcite and clauset et al .",
    "@xcite works as baseline algorithms to compare with ours due to their wide popularity among practitioners .",
    "a general drawback of these algorithms , when they are applied to twitter networks , is that due to the sparse nature of the connectivity they end up with an artificially large number of communities .",
    "nonnegative matrix factorization(nmf ) algorithms by lee et al . @xcite and lin et al .",
    "@xcite have been extensively used and extended for different variations of community detection problems .",
    "cai et al .",
    "@xcite introduced gnmf algorithm to incorporate laplacian graph regularization to the standard nmf algorithm which assumes data points are sampled from a euclidian space which is not the case usually for real - world applications .",
    "@xcite further incorporate local learning regularization to nmf which assumes that geometrically neighboring data points are similar to each other , and should be in the same cluster . for co - clustering purposes ding et al .",
    "@xcite propose nonnegative matrix tri - factorization with orthogonality constraints .",
    "shang et al .",
    "introduce graph dual regularized nmf algorithm in @xcite by claiming that not only observed data but also features lie on a manifold .",
    "yao et al .",
    "@xcite apply the same logic for collaborative filtering domain and propose a dual regularized one - class collaborative filtering method .",
    "since p - o - x triad balance theory proposed by heider in @xcite , structural balance of signed networks has been studied extensively .",
    "heider proposed that in a signed triad , only two combinations of eight possible sign configurations are possible for a triad to be structurally balanced .",
    "those are the following cases ;    1 .   three positive edges , 2 .",
    "one positive and a pair of negative edges .    in other words",
    ", there can not be any structurally balanced triad having only one negative edge .",
    "we adopt this social theory for the twitter user connectivity networks , by assuming that \" retweets without edits  imply political endorsement or an unambiguous positive edge @xcite .",
    "however , when a retweet is edited , it has already been shown that @xcite , it does not necessarily mean endorsement anymore . moreover , user mentions do not imply endorsements either . for these reasons ,",
    "we only consider retweets without edits as positive edges .",
    "for the rest of the user actions , corresponding to retweets with edits and users mentions , it is hard to detect positivity or negativity of the edges .    in certain triad configurations , retweets with edits and user mentions can be identified as positive edges with the help of heider s triad structural balance ( tsb ) rules . since we do not have unambiguous negative edges ,",
    "the second case is not applicable .",
    "however , since we have some positive edges to begin with , we can employ heider s first case ( i.e. three positive edges ) , to infer that in the presence of a triad with a pair of positive edges , the third edge can also be labeled as positive .",
    "an example configuration with a pair of positive edges is shown in figure [ fig : triangle ] . in this case ,",
    "tsb rule is applicable and would allow us to infer that any user mention or retweet with an edit edge connecting the lower pair of users in the triad is indeed a positive edge . by employing this inference mechanism we identify the endorsement filtered user connectivity network .",
    "we propose three methods for clustering politically motivated users in twitter namely ; multinmf , trinmf and dualnmf . for multinmf method",
    "we use document term representation of user - word , user - hashtag and user - domain matrices to be factorized and regularize the factorization problem with the user connectivity graph , cosine similarity matrices of words , domains and hashtag co - occurence matrix . for trinmf method",
    "we use only user - word and one of user - hashtag or user - domain matrices and regularize over user connectivity and cosine domain similarity or hashtag co - occurence matrix . for dualnmf method",
    "we factorize user - word matrix into two nonnegative lower rank matrices while regularizing it with user connectivity and cosine word similarity . before going into the details of the three algorithms we present notation in table [ table : notations ] .",
    "| l | l | l | @xmath0 & user x word & frequencies of words used by users + @xmath1 & user x hashtag & frequencies of hashtags used by users + @xmath2 & user x domain &    .notation [ cols= \" < \" , ]     [ table : exset3 ]    major findings from experiment set 3 can be summarized as follows ;    * regardless of the experiment set and algorithms used , endorsement filtered user connectivity graph yields higher accuracy clustering performance compared to using the full connectivity graph . usually weighted graph approach outperforms the others . * dualnmf method which factorizes user - word matrix alongside user connectivity and word similarity regularizers yields the highest accuracy clustering performance .",
    "* we get much higher scores of clustering accuracy in experiment set 3 compared to experiment set 2 . regularizing content - only methods with user connectivity graphs(gnmf @xcite ) , dramatically increases the quality of the clustering .",
    "dualnmf which incorporates keyword similarity regularization to gnmf further boosts the quality of clustering .",
    "* compared to dualnmf method , including tweet messages for nmtf method proposed in @xcite does not help to further improve the clustering quality , while it increases complexity dramatically .",
    "dualnmf provides 9% additional purity , 46% additional ari score while doubling the nmi score compared to the baseline nmtf method of pei et al . in @xcite . *",
    "compared to dualnmf method , utilizing hashtag and/or domain usage information ( i.e. trinmf and multinmf ) do not contribute to the overall clustering quality .",
    "in twitter , content and endorsement filtered connectivity are complementary to each other in clustering politically motivated users into pure political communities .",
    "word usage is the strongest indicator of user s political orientation among all content categories .",
    "incorporating user - word matrix and word similarity regularizer provides the missing link in connectivity - only methods which suffers from detection of artificially large number of clusters in sparse twitter networks .",
    "our future work includes parallel distributed evolutionary community detection and identification of emerging coalitions and conflicts among communities .",
    "this research was supported by onr grants n00014 - 16 - 1 - 2386 and n00014 - 15 - 1 - 2722 .",
    "1 howard , philip n. , and aiden duffy , deen freelon , muzammil hussain , will mari , and marwa mazaid .",
    "opening closed regimes : what was the role of social media during the arab spring ?",
    "project on information technology and political islam data memo 2011.1 .",
    "seattle : university of washington , 2011 .",
    "girvan , m . , newman m.e.j .",
    "community structure in social and biological networks , proceedings of the national academy of sciences , 99(12 ) , pp.7821 - 7826 .",
    "yulong pei , nilanjan chakraborty , and katia sycara",
    "nonnegative matrix tri - factorization with graph regularization for community detection in social networks . in proceedings of the 24th international conference on artificial intelligence ( ijcai15 ) , qiang yang and michael wooldridge ( eds . ) .",
    "aaai press 2083 - 2089 .",
    "j. tang , x. wang , and h. liu .",
    "integrating social media data for community detection . in modeling and mining ubiquitous social media , 2012 .",
    "mrinmaya sachan , danish contractor , tanveer a. faruquie , and l. venkata subramaniam .",
    "2012 . using content and interactions for discovering communities in social networks . in proceedings of the 21st international conference on world wide web ( www 12 ) .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa , 331 - 340 .",
    "y. ruan , d. fuhry , and s. parthasarathy .",
    "efficient community detection in large networks using content and links . in www 13 , 2013 .",
    "tufekci , z. ( 2014 ) .",
    "big questions for social media big data : representativeness , validity and other methodological pitfalls . in : international aaai conference on weblogs and social media .",
    "m. d. conover , b. goncalves , j. ratkiewicz , m. francisco , a. flammini , and f. menczer , `` political polarization on twitter , '' in proceedings of the 5th internationalconference on weblogs and social media , 2011 sandra gonzlez - bailn , ning wang , alejandro rivero , javier borge - holthoefer , yamir moreno , assessing the bias in samples of large online networks , social networks , volume 38 , july 2014 , pages 16 - 27 , issn 0378 - 8733 , http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.socnet.2014.01.004 .",
    "s. a. myers , a. sharma , p. gupta , and j. lin .",
    "information network or social network ?",
    "the structure of the twitter follow graph .",
    "www companion , 2014 heider f. the psychology of interpersonal relations .",
    "new york : wiley , 1958 .",
    "322 p. felix ming fai wong , chee wei tan , soumya sen , and mung chiang . 2013 .",
    "quantifying political leaning from tweets and retweets . in proceedings of the international aaai conference on weblogs and social media ( icwsm ) .",
    "d. boyd , s. golder and g. lotan , `` tweet , tweet , retweet : conversational aspects of retweeting on twitter , '' system sciences ( hicss ) , 2010 43rd hawaii international conference on , honolulu , hi , 2010 , pp . 1 - 10 .",
    "doi : 10.1109/hicss.2010.412 hubert , l. , arabie , p. ( 1985 ) . comparing partitions .",
    "journal of classification , 2 , 193218 .",
    "stephen boyd and lieven vandenberghe .",
    "convex optimization .",
    "cambridge university press , cambridge , 2004 .",
    "m. newman .",
    "modularity and community structure in networks .",
    "proceedings of the national academy of sciences , vol .",
    "85778582 . s. fortunato .",
    "community detection in graphs .",
    "physics reports , vol .",
    "75174 vincent d blondel , jean - loup guillaume , renaud lambiotte , etienne lefebvre . fast unfolding of communities in large networks .",
    "journal of statistical mechanics : theory and experiment 2008 ( 10 ) , p10008 ( 12pp ) doi : 10.1088/1742 - 5468/2008/10/p10008 .",
    "a. clauset , m. newman , and c. moore , `` finding community structure in very large networks , '' physical review e , vol .",
    "70 , p. 066111",
    "[ online ] .",
    "available : http://www.citebase.org/cgibin/citations?id=oai:arxiv.org:cond-mat/0408187 waltman , l. , van eck , n. j .. 2013 . a smart local moving algorithm for large - scale modularity - based community detection .",
    "european physical journal b , 86 , 471 .",
    "lloyd . , s. p. ( 1982 ) .",
    "`` least squares quantization in pcm '' ( pdf ) .",
    "ieee transactions on information theory 28 ( 2 ) : 129137 .",
    "doi:10.1109/tit.1982.1056489 daniel d. lee , h. sebastian seung . 2000 .",
    "algorithms for non - negative matrix factorization . in neural information processing systems ( nips ) ,",
    "556 - 562 . c. j. lin . on the convergence of multiplicative update algorithms for nonnegative matrix factorization . in ieee transactions on neural networks ,",
    "18 , no . 6 , pp . 1589 - 1596 , nov .",
    "doi : 10.1109/tnn.2007.895831 yuan yao , hanghang tong , guo yan , feng xu , xiang zhang , boleslaw k. szymanski , and jian lu .",
    "dual - regularized one - class collaborative filtering . in proceedings of the 23rd",
    "acm international conference on conference on information and knowledge management ( cikm 14 ) .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa , 759 - 768 .",
    "doi = http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2661829.2662042 linhong zhu , aram galstyan , james cheng , and kristina lerman .",
    "tripartite graph clustering for dynamic sentiment analysis on social media . in proceedings of the 2014 acm",
    "sigmod international conference on management of data ( sigmod 14 ) .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa , 1531 - 1542 .",
    "doi = http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2588555.2593682 quanquan gu and jie zhou .",
    "co - clustering on manifolds . in proceedings of",
    "the 15th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining ( kdd 09 ) .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa , 359 - 368 .",
    "doi = http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1557019.1557063 fanhua shang , l. c. jiao , and fei wang .",
    "graph dual regularization non - negative matrix factorization for co - clustering .",
    "pattern recogn .",
    "45 , 6 ( june 2012 ) , 2237 - 2250 .",
    "doi = http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.patcog.2011.12.015 chris ding , tao li , wei peng , and haesun park .",
    "matrix t - factorizations for clustering . in proceedings of",
    "the 12th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining ( kdd 06 ) .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa , 126 - 135 .",
    "doi = http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1150402.1150420    d. cai , x. he , j. han and t. s. huang , graph regularized nonnegative matrix factorization for data representation , in ieee transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence , vol .",
    "33 , no . 8 , pp .",
    "1548 - 1560 , aug .",
    "doi : 10.1109/tpami.2010.231 wei xu , xin liu , and yihong gong .",
    "document clustering based on non - negative matrix factorization . in proceedings of the 26th annual international acm sigir conference on research and development in informaion retrieval ( sigir 03 ) .",
    "acm , new york , ny , usa , 267 - 273 .",
    "doi = http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/860435.860485 zhou , quanquan gu jie .",
    "local learning regularized nonnegative matrix factorization .",
    "ijcai 2009 , proceedings of the 21st international joint conference on artificial intelligence , pasadena , california , usa , july 11 - 17 , 2009 linhong zhu , aram galstyan , james cheng , and kristina lerman .",
    "tripartite graph clustering for dynamic sentiment analysis on social media . in proceedings of the 2014 acm",
    "sigmod international conference on management of data , pages 1531 - 1542 .",
    "acm , 2014 .      to follow the conventional theory of constrained optimization we rewrite objective function [ eq : obj1 ] as ; @xmath3 let @xmath4 , @xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7 be the lagrangian multipliers for constraints @xmath8 respectively .",
    "so the lagrangian function @xmath9 becomes ; @xmath10 the partial derivatives of lagrangian function @xmath11 with respect to @xmath12 are as follows ; @xmath13 setting derivatives equal to zero and using kkt complementarity conditions @xcite of nonnegativity of matrices @xmath14 , @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 and @xmath18 , we get the update rules given in equations [ eq : u1 ] , [ eq : h1 ] , [ eq : d1 ] , [ eq : w1 ] ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> community detection is a fundamental task in social network analysis . in this paper , first we develop an endorsement filtered user connectivity network by utilizing heider s structural balance theory and certain twitter triad patterns . </S>",
    "<S> next , we develop three nonnegative matrix factorization frameworks to investigate the contributions of different types of user connectivity and content information in community detection . </S>",
    "<S> we show that user content and endorsement filtered connectivity information are complementary to each other in clustering politically motivated users into pure political communities . </S>",
    "<S> word usage is the strongest indicator of users political orientation among all content categories . </S>",
    "<S> incorporating user - word matrix and word similarity regularizer provides the missing link in connectivity - only methods which suffer from detection of artificially large number of clusters for twitter networks . </S>"
  ]
}