{
  "article_text": [
    "at the last moment of life of massive stars , neutron stars could be born in conjunction with supernova explosions .",
    "neutron stars can realize extreme circumstances @xcite .",
    "the density inside a neutron star becomes easily over the nuclear saturation density .",
    "the magnetic and gravitational fields around / inside a neutron star are quite strong .",
    "thus , neutron stars are good candidates to probe the physics under such extreme conditions . in practice ,",
    "observations of neutron stars itself and/or of phenomena associated with compact objects would enable us to obtain an imprint of properties , which are difficult to provide on the earth .",
    "for example , the discoveries of @xmath1 neutron stars exclude some of soft equations of state ( eos ) for neutron star matter @xcite . as another possibility",
    ", asteroseismology must be a powerful technique to extract the interior information of neutron stars via the observations of stellar oscillations , which are the same as seismology on the earth and helioseismology on the sun .",
    "up to now , it has been suggested that one might get the information about the stellar mass , radius , eos , and magnetic properties of compact objects through the oscillation spectra of gravitational waves ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "furthermore , after the discoveries of the quasi - periodic oscillations in the afterglow of giant flares observed from soft - gamma repeaters ( see ref .",
    "@xcite for a review ) , several attempts have been done especially to extract the eos parameters by identifying the observed quasi - periodic oscillations with the crustal torsional oscillations @xcite .    however , these examinations with the asteroseismological approach are almost restricted on the cases for cold neutron stars",
    ". that is , there are very few attempts for the protoneutron stars ( pnss ) produced just after supernovae from the asteroseismological point of view .",
    "the eos for supernova matter , where one has to consider the dependences of electron fraction and entropy , is quite different from that of neutron star matter , which is constructed under the beta equilibrium conditions .",
    "therefore , one might obtain different aspects of eos from the observations of oscillation spectra radiated from the pnss .",
    "in fact , it has been pointed out that the oscillation properties of pnss are quite different from those of cold neutron stars @xcite , which is based on the models of isolated pnss without mass accretion from the outer layer of the progenitors @xcite .    to hear the last voice of the massive stars",
    ", the next - generation gravitational wave detectors will be online in the coming years @xcite .",
    "the prediction of the gravitational wave from the next galactic supernova should be urgent task in order not to miss it @xcite .",
    "recently numerical studies of core - collapse supernovae become highly sophisticated ( see @xcite for reviews ) . with the multidimensional simulations , the imprint of the pns oscillations",
    "have been found , which could be associated with the convection in the region around the surface of pns @xcite .",
    "different from well - studied gravitational waves from rotational core - bounce that should be rare event @xcite , this gravitational waves is emitted from ordinary non - rotating or slowly rotating pns that should be majority of the remnants of core - collapse supernovae @xcite .",
    "these oscillations correspond to the so - called @xmath0-modes , which is the specific oscillations with the restoring force due to the buoyancy . according to the literature @xcite ,",
    "the spectra of such @xmath0-modes oscillations from the pnss are characterized with the properties of @xmath2 , where @xmath3 and @xmath4 denote the mass and radius of pnss . meanwhile",
    ", perturbative approaches might be better to extract the information of stellar oscillations rather than the direct numerical simulations . in the perturbative approaches",
    ", one can easily identify the physical background from the numerical calculations .",
    "additionally , one can numerically calculate with high resolution owing to the low computational cost .",
    "so , we will consider to extract the oscillation information by using the perturbative approaches .    in this paper , we systematically examine the oscillation spectra of the pnss with the relativistic cowling approximation , where the metric is fixed during the stellar oscillations . for this purpose ,",
    "the pns models are constructed with the assumption that the pnss are hydrostatic at each time step .",
    "the stellar mass and radius for each time step are determined from the fitting formula derived with the results of the stellar mass and radius by one dimensional ( 1d ) numerical simulations of supernova , where the function forms of fitting is adopted the same as in ref .",
    "the distributions of the entropy per baryon and electron fraction inside the pnss are reproduced to mimic the results of 1d simulations of ours and those obtained in ref .",
    "@xcite . on such pns models ,",
    "we solve the eigenvalue problems to determine the oscillation spectra at each time step after the bounce in core - collapse supernova .",
    "we adopt geometric units , @xmath5 , where @xmath6 and @xmath7 denote the speed of light and the gravitational constant , respectively , and the metric signature is @xmath8 in this paper .",
    "we make models of pns by two steps .",
    "first we have performed 1d time - dependent simulations of core - collapse supernovae and determine the mass and radius of pns as a function of the time .",
    "after that we solve general relativistic hydrostatic equation using the mass and radius obtained by the simulation at given post bounce time .",
    "the method for the time - dependent simulation is described in section [ sec : iia ] and the method to solve the hydrostatic structure is provided in section [ sec : iib ] .",
    "we remark that the numerical simulation for determining the radius and mass of pns is done in newtonian , while the pns models to examine the frequencies of gravitational waves are constructed in general relativity as mentioned below .",
    "thus , the radius of pns might be overestimated , because the pns model in general relativity could become more compact than that in newtonian .    in this paper ,",
    "we especially adopt the eos proposed by lattimer and swesty @xcite ( the so - called ls220 ) and by shen @xcite .",
    "ls220 is based on the compressible liquid drop model with the incompressibility @xmath9 mev and the slope of the symmetry energy at the saturation density @xmath10 mev . on the other hand ,",
    "shen eos is based on the relativistic mean field theory with the tm1 nuclear interaction , where @xmath11 mev and @xmath12 mev . using a model of @xmath13 progenitor @xcite ,",
    "we discuss how eos affects the evolution of pns .    additionally , in order to examine the dependence of the progenitor mass , @xmath14",
    ", we also adopt @xmath15 , @xmath16 , and @xmath17 @xcite with ls220 .",
    "hereafter , we consider the stellar model with @xmath18 constructed with ls220 as a typical model in this paper ( we refer to this model as ls220m15.0 ) , which is compared with the other models .",
    "first , we briefly show the setup and results of 1d simulations of core - collapse supernovae .",
    "the mass and radius of pns calculated in the simulation are used to construct a model of pns at given post bounce time .",
    "the simulations are performed with elaborate neutrino radiation hydrodynamics code based on our previous work @xcite .",
    "the code combines hydrodynamics solver of high - resolution shock capturing scheme with approximate riemann solver of hlle @xcite with neutrino transport solver that employ the isotropic diffusion source approximation ( idsa ) @xcite .",
    "our spatial grids has a finest mesh spacing , @xmath19 km , at the center and covers up to 5000 km with 512 non equidistant radial zones .",
    "the gravitational potential is calculated by newtonian mono - pole approximation .",
    "in the part of neutrino transport , we solve energy dependent moment equations of neutrinos for each neutrino energy , where 20 energy bins are employed to span 0  300 mev . in this study , we slightly developed our code to treat all flavors of neutrino in the framework of idsa scheme .",
    "the neutrino input physics are based on bruenn ( 1985 ) @xcite .",
    "the reaction considered in this study is tabulated in table [ tab : neutrino ] .",
    "detail of the implementation is given at the forthcoming paper .",
    ".summary of neutrino - matter interaction considered in the simulations [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab : ci01 ]    with respect to the characteristic gravitational waves radiating after bounce of core - collapse supernovae , the evidence of signal due to the convection and the standing accretion - shock instability has also been reported @xcite , which is associated with the @xmath0-mode oscillations around ( and above ) the surface of pnss .",
    "in fact , the frequencies can be well - expressed by using the radius and mass of pnss as @xmath20 where @xmath21 and @xmath22 denote the neutron mass and the mean energy of electron anti - neutrinos @xcite .",
    "that is , the frequencies essentially depend on @xmath23 , which is completely different from the @xmath24-mode frequencies depending on @xmath25 as shown above .",
    "thus , carefully observing the frequencies of gravitational waves radiating from the pnss in supernovae , one might be possible to determine the mass and radius of pnss via eqs .",
    "( [ eq : ff ] ) and ( [ eq : fg ] ) @xcite . for example",
    ", one might observe the time evolution of gravitational wave spectra from the pns for @xmath26 and ls220 , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : mueller ] .",
    "we remark that , to calculate the @xmath0-mode frequencies with eq .",
    "( [ eq : fg ] ) , we adopt the @xmath22 distribution given by @xmath27 which is an imitation of fig . 1 in ref .",
    "@xcite , and the radius and mass of pns are determined so that the surface density sets to be @xmath28 g/@xmath29 as in ref .",
    "@xcite .    - and @xmath0-modes radiating from pnss for @xmath26 and ls220 . ]",
    "in this paper , we consider the time evolution of the gravitational wave spectra radiating from the pnss after bounce in core - collapse supernova . for this purpose ,",
    "we construct pns models in such a way that the mass and radius obtained from the 1d simulation are mimicked under the assumption that the pns models are hydrostatic on each time step . on such pns models ,",
    "we calculate the eigen frequencies by solving the eigenvalue problem within the relativistic linear analysis .",
    "then , we find that the frequencies from the pnss are almost independent from the distributions of electron fraction and of the entropy per baryon inside the stars .",
    "in addition , the frequencies can be characterized by the square root of the average density of pnss , which are almost independent from the progenitor models .",
    "eventually , we can derive the universal relation between the frequencies from pnss and square root of the average density of pnss . since this relation is completely different from the empirical relation for the frequencies due to the convection and the standing accretion - shock instability around the surface of pns",
    ", one might be possible to determine the mass and radius of pns via careful observations of gravitational waves after core - collapse supernova . in this paper , as a first step , we construct pns models with the 1d simulation of core - collapse supernovae within newtonian theory .",
    "so , we will perform the similar analysis for the pns models with higher dimension simulation and/or within relativistic framework in future .",
    "this work was supported in part by grant - in - aid for young scientists ( b ) through grant nos .",
    "26800133 ( h.s . ) and 26870823 ( t.t . ) provided by jsps and by grants - in - aid for scientific research on innovative areas through grant nos . 15h00843 ( h.s . ) ,",
    "15h01039 ( t.t . ) , and 15h00789 ( t.t . ) provided by mext . t.t . was supported by mext and jicfus as a priority issue ( elucidation of the fundamental laws and evolution of the universe ) to be tackled by using post ` k ' computer .",
    "the computations in this research were performed by pc cluster at center for computational astrophysics , national astronomical observatory of japan .                                      v. ferrari , g. miniutti , and j. a. pons , mon . not .",
    "* 342 * , 629 ( 2003 ) , arxiv : astro - ph/0210581 .",
    "j. a. pons , s. reddy , m. prakash , j. m. lattimer , and j. a. miralles , astrophys .",
    "j. * 513 * , 780 ( 1999 ) , arxiv : astro - ph/9807040 .",
    "j. a. pons , a. w. steiner , m. prakash , and j. m. lattimer , phys .",
    "86 * , 5223 ( 2001 ) , arxiv : astro - ph/0102015 . g. m. harry and the ligo scientific collaboration , classical and quantum gravity * 27 * , 084006 ( 2010 ) .",
    "k. n. yakunin , a. mezzacappa , p. marronetti , s. yoshida , s. w. bruenn , w. r. hix , e. j. lentz , o. e. bronson messer , j. a. harris , e. endeve , j. m. blondin , and e. j. lingerfelt , , 084040 ( 2015 ) , arxiv:1505.05824 .",
    "the evolution of entropy profile is determined by the competition between the entropy increase via the release of gravitational binding energy after bounce and the decrease via the neutrino cooling due to the diffusion process .",
    "the neutrino opacity in the vicinity of stellar center is so high that the neutrino can not escape easily , while that for outer region of protoneutron star becomes low where the neutrino can escape efficiently .",
    "such a neutrino opacity depending on the density leads to the evolution of entropy profile as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : yes12 ] . in any case , the central profile of entropy after @xmath30 msec . deviates from the previous numerical results in general relativity ( e.g. , @xcite ) , because our simulation has been done in newtonian .",
    "we distinguish the thermal energy from the entire internal energy in a sense that the thermal energy is just defined by the temperature , while the entire internal energy includes the chemical potential .",
    "k. n. yakunin , a. mezzacappa , p. marronetti , s. i. yoshida , s. w. bruenn , w. raphael hix , e. j. lentz , o. e. bronson messer , j. austin harris , e. endeve , j. m. blondin , and e. j. lingerfelt , arxiv e - prints ( 2015 ) , arxiv:1505.05824 .",
    "according to the simulation by andresen et al .",
    "@xcite , the gravitational waves due to the convection and the standing accretion - shock instability could be detected if the source is closer than @xmath31 kpc , depending on the progenitor mass .",
    "thus , this value might be a critical distance for determining the pns mass and radius via the direct observations of @xmath24 and @xmath0-modes oscillations ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the time evolution of the frequencies of the gravitational wave after the bounce within the framework of relativistic linear perturbation theory using the results of one dimensional numerical simulations of core - collapse supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> protoneutron star models are constructed in such a way that the mass and radius of protoneutron star become equivalent to the results obtained from the numerical simulations . </S>",
    "<S> then , we find that the frequencies of gravitational waves radiating from protoneutron stars strongly depend on the mass and radius of protoneutron stars , but almost independently of the profiles of electron fraction and entropy per baryon inside the star . additionally , we find that the frequencies of gravitational waves can be characterized by the square root of the average density of protoneutron star irrespectively the progenitor models , which are completely different from the empirical formula for cold neutron stars . </S>",
    "<S> the dependence of the spectra on the mass and radius is different from that of the @xmath0-mode : the oscillations around the surface of protoneutron stars due to the convection and the standing accretion - shock instability . </S>",
    "<S> careful observations of the these modes of gravitational waves can determine the evolution of the mass and radius of protoneutron stars after core - bounce . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , the expected frequencies of gravitational waves are around a few hundred hertz in the early stage after bounce , which must be a good candidate for the ground - based gravitational wave detectors . </S>"
  ]
}