{
  "article_text": [
    "detecting people s facial expressions has been an interesting research topic for more than 20 years .",
    "facial expressions play an important role in many applications such as advertising , social interaction and assistive technology .",
    "research in facial expression recognition mainly includes three parts : datasets , algorithms and real world interaction applications . in our approach , to improve the performance of facial expression recognition in real scenes , we propose a framework for integrating dataset construction , algorithm design and interaction implementation .    even though facial expression research should include three integrated parts , most of the previous work mostly focused on one of the components .",
    "consequently , algorithms or models designed for one or several datasets do not work well when dealing with real scene problems . with this in mind , we propose a recursive updating approach . starting from a deep learning model trained from facial images collected from the web ,",
    "a facial expression game is designed for collecting new and more balanced data .",
    "then the newly collected data are used to update the training model .",
    "the framework is illustrated in figure [ fig0 ] .",
    "we start with a dataset with candid images for facial expression ( cife ) to build an initial facial expression model , which is then served as the game engine for a facial expression game , then when users play the game , facial images of the users are classified as different facial expressions by the model and automatically collected .",
    "this leads to a new and balanced dataset , named gamo ( standing for game - based emotion ) , which is used to update our facial expression model .",
    "this is an extended work of our previous research in web - based data collection cife  @xcite , cife data enahancement and alexnet model fine - tuning  @xcite and game interface designs for collecting new data ( gamo ) @xcite . in this paper",
    "we have the following new contributions :    \\1 ) a recursive framework is proposed , which can recursively generate new data and update the deep learning model to have better performance in real scene facial expression recognition .",
    "\\2 ) a deeper cnn model is used by fine - tuning the 19-layer cnn structure proposed by the visual geometry group ( vgg)@xcite - thus the fine - tuned vgg network , and performance comparison showed that it outperformed the results we generated using our initial cnn model and the fine - tuned alexnet model we reported in our previous work .",
    "\\3 ) we detailed the design and evaluation of the game interface , which is only controlled by human facial expressions , and automatically collecting expression images while the players are playing the game .",
    "the new gamo dataset is also analyzed leading to insights and new ideas for more balanced data collection with our recursive framework in the future .",
    "\\4 ) the performance of emotion recognition based on the two facial expression datasets is compared and analyzed : cife and gamo , and their more balanced subsets using the new vgg model : cife is a web candid imaged based facial expression dataset ; gamo is an in game - based emotion dataset collected when our users played our facial expression game .",
    "the rest of the paper organized as follows : after the introduction in section 1 , related work is reviewed in section 2 .",
    "section 3 discusses how the cife dataset is collected and applied to build a cnn based facial expression model .",
    "details of how we design and implement the game interface is described in section 4 .",
    "we evaluated our framework by comparing gamo and cife datasets in building facial expression recognition models in section 5 . and finally , we concluded our work in section 6 .",
    "we already mentioned that current facial expression research mainly includes three major components : datasets , algorithms / models , and applications . here",
    "we would like to give a review of each of the three components .",
    "among the many datasets that have been provided by researchers for recognizing expressions from images , there are mainly two kinds of datasets .",
    "datasets belonging to the first category are captured in laboratory .",
    "these include ck+ , mmi and disfa dataset  @xcite .",
    "usually subjects are invited to their labs and sit in lighting and position constrained environments .",
    "good results can be achieved on these datasets but in real life scenarios , it s always hard to have good performance .",
    "datasets in the second category are collected from existing media and social networks , such as kaggle and emotiw  @xcite .",
    "using web search engines , one can easily obtain thousands of images but the datasets are usually not balanced .",
    "emotiw is a video clip dataset for an expression recognition challenge , and the video samples are from hollywood movies where the actors show different expressions . for the datasets collected from existing media , some of the expressions like happy or sad are easier to obtain , but for some expressions like disgust or fear , it s hard to find enough samples .",
    "although the existing datasets are generally not balanced , many interesting and promising approaches have been proposed for expression detection .",
    "most existing facial expression recognition methods have focused on recognizing expressions of frontal faces , such as the images in ck+ @xcite .",
    "shan , et al @xcite have proposed a lbp - based feature extractor combined with an svm for classification . in the method proposed by xiao , et al @xcite , instead of training one model for all expressions ,",
    "separate models have been trained for each expression , which improve the overall performance .",
    "wang , et al @xcite modeled facial expressions as complex activities that consist of temporally overlapping sequences of face events .",
    "then , an interval temporal bayesian network ( itbn ) was used to capture the complex temporal information .",
    "karan , et al  @xcite proposed a hmm - based approach to make use of consecutive frame information to achieve better expression recognition accuracy from video .    in the last few years , deep learning methods have been successfully used for face recognition and verification @xcite .",
    "deep learning approaches are also used in many expression detection applications .",
    "liu , et al @xcite proposed a boosted deep belief network to perform feature learning , feature selection and classifier construction for expression recognition .",
    "different dbn models for unsupervised feature learning in audio - visual expression recognition have been compared in the work done by kim , et al @xcite .",
    "our early work @xcite used cnns on images collected from the web . to prove the effectiveness of cnns , we compared cnn - based facial expression performance on ck+ to the state of the art methods .",
    "multimodal deep learning approaches have been applied to facial expression recognitions tasks .",
    "an example is jung , et al s work  @xcite in which facial landmarks based shape information and image based appearance information are learned through a combined cnn network .",
    "the results show that deep learning based multimodal features act better than individual modalities or the use of traditional learning approaches . automatically learned features",
    "have also been used for multimodal facial emotion recognition on video clips  @xcite .      in the generation of imagenet dataset",
    "@xcite , amazon mechanical turk ( amt ) is used to label all the training images .",
    "workers are hired online and can remotely work on labeling the dataset .",
    "the imagenet is a large scale dataset that aims to label 50 million images for object classification and without the help of online workers , the labeling would not be feasible .",
    "this inspired us to develop the idea of involving people in the data collection process through an online framework , preferable using games .",
    "there have been some efforts in using games to attract people to perform some image classification work .",
    "luis , et al  @xcite designed an interactive system that attracted people to label images , mourao et al  @xcite developed a facial engaging algorithm as the controller to play their novoexpressions game , and a player engagement dataset was obtained and the relationship between the players facial engagement and game scores were analyzed .",
    "but their goal is not to collect data .",
    "expression games have also been used to entertain children with autism spectrum disorder ( asd ) and to help them perform facial expressions by mirroring their expressions to some cartoon characters  @xcite .",
    "our online framework not only makes use of online crowdsourcing through games , but also has much lower cost than amt . and",
    "since the numbers of various facial expressions can be controlled by the design of the games , the dataset can be guaranteed to be balanced .",
    "since we would like to develop facial expression approaches that can be used in real world scenes , we need to train and test the models on non - posed images , or candid images . therefore we collect a candid image facial expression ( cife ) dataset .",
    "we note that most of the facial expression images on the web are randomly posed , and most of the expressions are natural .",
    "therefore we use web crawling techniques to acquire candid expression images from the web , and create our candid image facial expression dataset cife .",
    "as we have mentioned , we define seven types of expressions : happy , anger , disgust , sad , surprise , fear and neutral .",
    "using related key words to the each of the 7 expressions in addition to the name of the expression ( e.g. , joy , cheer , smile for happiness ) , we have collected a large number of images that belong to each of the seven expressions .",
    "we have used most of the image search engines , including google , baidu and flickr . in our initial cife dataset",
    "@xcite , the number of samples of different expressions were : anger ( 1785 ) , disgust ( 266 ) , fear ( 781 ) , happiness ( 3636 ) , neutral ( 644 ) , sadness(2485 ) and surprise(997 ) .",
    "the images are from the web and most of them are not posed .",
    "however , the number of samples in different classes was highly unbalanced . therefore , we have added some images to classes with fewer samples ( for example disgust and fear ) to balance the class sizes  @xcite . at the end , we obtained 14,756 images for 7 classes ( after some manual post - filtering by humans ) . the total number for each facial expression in our revised cife dataset",
    "is listed in table [ tab1 ] .",
    "this is the dataset we use in this paper . in  @xcite ,",
    "the cnn model was one of the modules for video expression recoginition , but here we focus on facial expression recognition in single images .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows a few typical examples of faces with various poses .",
    ".sample numbers of the seven facial expressions in cife ( ang , dis , fea , hap , neu , sad , sur represent angry , disgust , fear , happy , sad , surprise , respectively ) . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in the balanced cife subset , due to fewer training data than the full cife , the performance for angry and happy dropped dramatically but the accuracy for disgust and fear does nt improve much . while for the gamo dataset , since each facial expression still has more than 1586 images , the balanced subset of gamo is still a good dataset for training .",
    "the balanced gamo produced a better facial expression model than the full gamo .",
    "for the less representative facial expressions like disgust , fear and sad , the improvement is huge .",
    "the reason for this is that with equal consideration of all facial expressions during the training process , all expressions deep features can be learned correctly , and if the test data can be well represented by the training data , we can achieve very good results .",
    "so , with our framework , we have a better chance to be able to obtain a robust expression predictor on all facial categories .",
    "the goal of facial expression recognition research is often to train a model that can perform well in real scenes .",
    "this is especially true in human - computer interaction applications for real daily activities , such as satisfaction studies of customers and viewers , and assistive social interaction for people in need , or individuals with visual impairment and autism spectrum disorders ( asd ) .",
    "one approach to verify an expression detector is through a test on ordinary people with natural facial expressions . to accurately evaluate the two models , we analyze the data collected from five new users ( 3 male and 2 female ) who are not included in the gamo dataset , while playing the general version of the game .",
    "note that in the phase of gamo data collection , we mainly use the customized game interface since users can not perform well with the general game interface . in this game engine performance study ,",
    "the general game is played five times by each user with the same game settings and the scores of the five rounds are recorded . using the two versions of our game engine , one trained on cife and the other on gamo , respectively .",
    "figure [ fig8 ] shows the result of this experiment .",
    "we have plotted the two average scores for each player on games powered by the two game engines . according to this figure , the gamo game engine has a much better performance and results in higher scores .",
    "this further confirms that the model trained on gamo is more suitable for real - world expression recognition .",
    "this result agrees with the cross testing results which show that the gamo model has a better performance on the gamo dataset itself .",
    "these observations would also support our claim that gamo is very useful in detecting subtle expressions .",
    "for instance , the user can gain a point with a normal smile expression in gamo model game as shown in figure [ fig7 ] , while using the cife model , the expression can not be detected .",
    "same fact holds for detecting anger or any other expressions , as our players do not have any prior knowledge of how obvious and explicit their facial expression should look like .",
    "in this paper , we propose a recursive framework in order to achieve real scene facial expression recognition .",
    "we first build a candid image facial expression dataset cife by parsing web expression images from image search engines .",
    "the cnn - based deep learning approaches are then employed to train robust facial expression predictors , while fine - tuning approaches are also constructed to improve facial expression accuracy . to collect real scene images ,",
    "we have designed a facial expression interaction game based on our deep learning model that was trained with the cife dataset . with users playing both the general and the customized versions of the face game ,",
    "the correctly labeled facial emotion images are selected and saved , which help us build the gamo dataset . to prove the effectiveness of our framework , we compared gamo and cife for their balanceness , recognition accuracy , the effectiveness of using strictly balanced subsets , and feedback from human subject tests .",
    "the experiments show that our framework can help build a reliable facial expression predictor for real scenes .    through our evaluation of the gamo and cife datasets",
    ", we see the effectiveness of our framework . by recursively updating our model with newly collected data",
    ", we can achieve better facial expression recognition model for real scenes . by comparing the statistics of cife and gamo trained models ,",
    "we can obtain a more balanced gamo dataset than the cife dataset .",
    "we can have more `` under - represented '' facial expressions using the game interface than collecting them from image search engines with tremendous manual efforts .",
    "we also have pointed out that we can use the known recognition rate of our game engine for each emotion category to change the appearing frequency of them so we can obtain more balanced samples across the seven expressions .",
    "the testing results on gamo datasets , the real scene images , hold the fact that the models trained with gamo have better performance in real scenarios . in the balanced subset experiment",
    ", gamo shows us the potential to build a robust model able to detect all expressions .",
    "and finally in our human subject experiment , we saw the ability of our updated model to detect more subtle expressions .",
    "this leads us to believe that with more game data and by recursively updating our facial expression models , we can detect facial expressions in real scenes with better accuracy .",
    "the first author would also like to thank ibm china research lab for the summer internship that enables the collection of the cife dateset .",
    "special thanks to ms celina m. cavalluzzi , director of day services , goodwill , for her assistance in evaluating the game apps by adults with autism spectrum disorders .",
    "xie , l. , hong , r. , zhang , b. , tian , q. ( 2015 , june ) .",
    "image classification and retrieval are one . in proceedings of the 5th acm on international conference on multimedia retrieval ( pp .",
    "mavadati , s. m. , mahoor , m. h. , bartlett , k. , trinh , p. , cohn , j. f. ( 2013 ) .",
    "disfa : a spontaneous facial action intensity database .",
    "affective computing , ieee transactions on , 4(2 ) , 151 - 160 .",
    "kanade , t. , cohn , j. f. , tian , y. ( 2000 ) .",
    "comprehensive database for facial expression analysis . in automatic face and gesture recognition , 2000 . proceedings .",
    "fourth ieee international conference on ( pp .",
    "46 - 53 ) .",
    "cohn , j. f. , ambadar , z. , ekman , p. ( 2007 ) .",
    "observer - based measurement of facial expression with the facial action coding system .",
    "the handbook of expression elicitation and assessment , 203 - 221 .",
    "lucey , p. , cohn , j. f. , kanade , t. , saragih , j. , ambadar , z. , matthews , i. ( 2010 , june ) .",
    "the extended cohn - kanade dataset ( ck+ ) : a complete dataset for action unit and expression - specified expression . in computer vision and pattern recognition workshops ( cvprw ) ,",
    "2010 ieee computer society conference on ( pp .",
    "94 - 101 ) .",
    "shan , c. , gong , s. , mcowan , p. w. ( 2009 ) .",
    "facial expression recognition based on local binary patterns : a comprehensive study . image and vision",
    "computing , 27(6 ) , 803 - 816 .",
    "li , w. , li , m. , su , z. , zhu , z. ( 2015 , may ) .",
    "a deep - learning approach to facial expression recognition with candid images . in machine vision applications",
    "( mva ) , 2015 14th iapr international conference on ( pp .",
    "279 - 282 ) .",
    "li , w. , abtahi , f. , zhu , z. ( 2015 ,",
    "november ) . a deep feature based multi - kernel learning approach for video expression recognition . in proceedings of the 2015 acm on international conference on multimodal interaction ( pp .",
    "483 - 490 ) .",
    "li , w. , farnaz a.,tsangouri , c. , zhu z.(2016 ) . towards an `` in - the - wild '' emotion dataset using a game - based framework . in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition workshops ( pp .",
    "75 - 83 ) .",
    "pantic , m. , valstar , m. , rademaker , r. , maat , l. ( 2005 , july ) .",
    "web - based database for facial expression analysis . in multimedia and expo , 2005 .",
    "icme 2005 .",
    "ieee international conference on ( pp .",
    "xiao , r. , zhao , q. , zhang , d. , shi , p. ( 2011 ) . facial expression recognition on multiple manifolds .",
    "pattern recognition , 44(1 ) , 107 - 116 .",
    "wang , z. , wang , s. , ji , q. ( 2013 ) . capturing complex spatio - temporal relations among facial muscles for facial expression recognition . in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( pp .",
    "3422 - 3429 ) .",
    "sikka , k. , dhall , a. , bartlett , m. ( 2015 ) . exemplar hidden markov models for classification of facial expressions in videos . in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition workshops ( pp . 18 - 25 ) .",
    "taigman , y. , yang , m. , ranzato , m. a. , wolf , l. ( 2014 ) .",
    "deepface : closing the gap to human - level performance in face verification . in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( pp .",
    "1701 - 1708 ) .",
    "sun , y. , wang , x. , tang , x. ( 2014 ) .",
    "deep learning face representation from predicting 10,000 classes . in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( pp .",
    "1891 - 1898 ) .",
    "liu , p. , han , s. , meng , z. , tong , y. ( 2014 ) .",
    "facial expression recognition via a boosted deep belief network . in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( pp .",
    "1805 - 1812 ) .",
    "kim , y. , lee , h. , provost , e. m. ( 2013 , may ) .",
    "deep learning for robust feature generation in audiovisual expression recognition . in acoustics ,",
    "speech and signal processing ( icassp ) , 2013 ieee international conference on ( pp .",
    "3687 - 3691 ) .",
    "jung , h. , lee , s. , yim , j. , park , s. , kim , j. ( 2015 ) .",
    "joint fine - tuning in deep neural networks for facial expression recognition . in proceedings of the ieee international conference on computer vision ( pp",
    ". 2983 - 2991 ) .",
    "deng , j. , dong , w. , socher , r. , li , l. j. , li , k. , fei - fei , l. ( 2009 , june ) .",
    "imagenet : a large - scale hierarchical image database . in computer vision and pattern recognition , 2009 .",
    "cvpr 2009 .",
    "ieee conference on ( pp .",
    "248 - 255 ) .",
    "von ahn , l. , dabbish , l. ( 2004 , april ) . labeling images with a computer game . in proceedings of the sigchi conference on human factors in computing systems ( pp .",
    "319 - 326 ) .",
    "mouro , a. , magalhes , j. ( 2013 , october ) .",
    "competitive affective gaming : winning with a smile . in proceedings of the 21st acm international conference on multimedia ( pp .",
    "83 - 92 ) .",
    "chicago deriso , d. , susskind , j. , krieger , l. , bartlett , m. ( 2012 , october ) .",
    "expression mirror : a novel intervention for autism based on real - time expression recognition . in computer vision - eccv 2012 .",
    "workshops and demonstrations ( pp . 671 - 674 ) .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg .",
    "girshick , r. ( 2015 ) .",
    "fast r - cnn . in proceedings of the ieee international conference on computer vision ( pp .",
    "1440 - 1448 ) .",
    "simonyan , k. , zisserman , a. ( 2014 ) .",
    "very deep convolutional networks for large - scale image recognition .",
    "arxiv preprint arxiv:1409.1556 .",
    "krizhevsky , a. , sutskever , i. , hinton , g. e. ( 2012 ) .",
    "imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks . in advances in neural information processing systems ( pp .",
    "1097 - 1105 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we propose a recursive framework to recognize facial expressions from images in real scenes . unlike traditional approaches that typically focus on developing and refining algorithms for improving recognition performance on an existing dataset </S>",
    "<S> , we integrate three important components in a recursive manner : facial dataset generation , facial expression recognition model building , and interactive interfaces for testing and new data collection . to start with </S>",
    "<S> , we first create a candid - images - for - facial - expression ( cife ) dataset . </S>",
    "<S> we then apply a convolutional neural network ( cnn ) to cife and build a cnn model for web image expression classification . in order to increase the expression recognition accuracy , we also fine - tune the cnn model and </S>",
    "<S> thus obtain a better cnn facial expression recognition model . </S>",
    "<S> based on the fine - tuned cnn model , we design a facial expression game engine and collect a new and more balanced dataset , gamo . </S>",
    "<S> the images of this dataset are collected from the different expressions our game users make when playing the game . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we evaluate the gamo and cife datasets and show that our recursive framework can help build a better facial expression model for dealing with real scene facial expression tasks .    </S>",
    "<S> example.eps gsave newpath 20 20 moveto 20 220 lineto 220 220 lineto 220 20 lineto closepath 2 setlinewidth gsave .4 setgray fill grestore stroke grestore </S>"
  ]
}