{
  "article_text": [
    "the sunspot number time series is the longest still - ongoing scientific experiment , and is also our only direct observation of solar activity up to centennial time - scales . as such ,",
    "it is of major importance for quantifying the influence of the sun on the heliosphere .",
    "the wolf number @xmath0 , also known as the sunspot number , or relative sunspot number , was introduced by rudolf wolf in 1848 @xcite .",
    "this quantity is based on the total number of sunspots @xmath1 and the number @xmath2 of sunspot groups that are present on the sun according to the formula ( whose different weights are at the origin of the qualifier _ relative _ ) : @xmath3 this combination is justified by the fact that neither of the two numbers , by itself , satisfactorily describes solar activity .",
    "the scaling factor @xmath4 is assigned to each observer to compensate for their differing observational qualities ; its value mainly depends on the observer s ability to detect the smallest sunspots ( in relation to telescope aperture , local seeing , and personal experience ) and on how complex groups are split .",
    "the method used today for computing these scaling factors is explained by @xcite .",
    "hundreds of observers have collected and tabulated wolf numbers @xmath0 over various periods in time . merging all of these records into one single composite sunspot number",
    "@xmath5 is a formidable enterprise @xcite , which requires a good understanding of their uncertainties .",
    "surprisingly , very little is known about these uncertainties .",
    "so far , they have never been included in the original wolf number records .",
    "our objective is to fill that gap by providing a better understanding of these uncertainties , and a way to quantify them .    before addressing them , however ,",
    "let us first address how observations and conventions have evolved over time .",
    "routine sunspot observations started in the early 17th century by astronomers such as harriot , galileo , and fabricius .",
    "thanks to them , and to multiple other observers , it is now possible to reconstruct an index of solar activity over more than four centuries @xcite .",
    "however , information on both sunspots and sunspot groups , enabling reconstruction of the composite itself is available from 1749 onwards only ( for monthly means ) .",
    "continuous daily sunspot information allowing the computation of a daily composite sunspot number @xmath5 started in 1848 when r. wolf initiated systematic sunspot observations in zrich .",
    "between 1749 and 1848 , the sunspot number was computed from primary standard observers @xcite .",
    "after 1848 , the standard observers were the successive directors of the zrich observatory ( wolf , wolfer , _",
    "their daily observations were always taken as the reference value , while the best value from secondary stations was chosen when there was no daily observation available from zrich . from 1877",
    "onward , secondary values were an average of all secondary stations instead of the single best value .",
    "after 1926 , the zrich primary value was an average of the different observers ( including assistants ) at the main observing station , instead of only the main standard observer .",
    ".key dates in sunspot number observations ( 17002015 ) .",
    "before 1848 , the number of observations per day is highly variable .",
    "for that period , information can be found in @xcite [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,^ \" , ]     this error is crucial for making a composite record out of multiple observations .",
    "for example , the maximum - likelihood estimator of an average sunspot number reads @xmath6 given that the error @xmath7 typically varies by a factor of two to three between different observers ( see figure  [ fig_errors_comparison ] ) , we may expect changes in the international sunspot number to occur once these errors are taken into account .",
    "however , a more subtle , and misleading consequence of the errors arises when comparing records .",
    "the estimation of the scaling factors k , and the extension of the sunspot number record backward in time rely heavily on comparisons between individual records .",
    "let us assume that we want to estimate the ratio between the wolf numbers from the kanzelhhe ( kzm ) and locarno ( lo ) stations , to be called henceforth @xmath8 .",
    ".,scaledwidth=70.0% ]    figure  [ fig_regression ] illustrates the scatter plot of these two wolf numbers and reveals a linear relationship , with considerable dispersion .",
    "the ratio between the two numbers can be estimated in different ways .",
    "the classical one involves a least - squares fit , wherein we minimise the cost function @xmath9 in doing so , we discard all errors , and assume that the regressor @xmath10 is perfectly known , which is obviously incorrect .",
    "alternatively , we could also minimise @xmath11 wherein we now assume that the dependent variable @xmath12 is errorless .",
    "weighted total least squares ( also known as errors - in - variables - regression ) is a generalisation of classical least squares , which allows both variables to have errors @xcite .",
    "errors - in - variables - regression avoids regression dilution . with it , we obtain a sounder estimate @xmath13 of the ratio , which gives more weight to smaller values .",
    "the ratios we find for the three approaches are respectively @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 .",
    "notice how the two classical solutions obtained by least squares differ by more than 5 % .",
    "more importantly , if we regress one record to the other , and back again , then the end result will differ from the initial one , and it will be systematically smaller .",
    "indeed , we have @xmath17 .",
    "this is known as the regression - toward - the - mean problem .",
    "small as this difference may be , it will generate a trend in the composite .",
    "present sunspot composites are built mainly with backbones , or by daisy - chaining . with backbones , one or a few stations",
    "are preferentially used as references to calibrate all the others ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , whereas in daisy - chaining each record is regressed to the subsequent one , and calibration thus passes from one station to the other .",
    "@xcite recently highlighted how easily both approaches can generate spurious trends .",
    "a natural way out consists in stitching together the different records after decomposing them into different time - scales , while taking into account their uncertainty @xcite .",
    "in this study we have provided the first thorough estimate of the uncertainty associated with daily values of the sunspot number .",
    "our main findings are :    * estimating the uncertainty ( what we call here error ) without an independent reference requires assumptions . among existing techniques ,",
    "autoregressive models provide a simple , and yet reliable , method for estimating the error based on the difference between the observed and predicted sunspot number .",
    "this error mostly quantifies short - term variability , i.e. precision .",
    "* we consider two types of errors : a `` time - domain '' one , estimated via autoregressive modelling , and a `` dispersion error '' , obtained from the scatter among observers for a given day .",
    "the latter is systematically lower for sunspot numbers up to about 100 .",
    "the two scale differently with the sunspot number : a square - root dependence ( i.e. poisson - like ) is found for the `` time - domain error '' , and a more linear one for the `` dispersion error '' .",
    "we conclude that random fluctuations in solar activity are the prime cause for errors for sunspot numbers up to about 100 .",
    "observational errors prevail beyond that value . *",
    "the relative error is smaller for the number groups than for the number of spots .",
    "in addition , the former has a dominant contribution coming from solar variability , whatever the level of solar activity . in this sense ,",
    "the number of groups is less likely to be affected by observer effects , and is a more robust quantity . *",
    "interestingly , dispersion errors show evidence of scale - free variations , which suggests that differences between observers are affected by long - range correlations , i.e. slow drifts . * the generalised anscombe",
    "transform gives us an analytical model for explaining how variations can be described in terms of a mix between poisson and gaussian random fluctuations .",
    "the former is by far the dominant one , and observational constraints are too weak to properly assess the ( presumably weak ) contribution from gaussian fluctuations .",
    "such a transform offers new perspectives for describing solar fluctuations as a diffusion process , as the transformed sunspot number behaves as a gaussian random variable .",
    "* for the international sunspot number , and for solar cycles after 1981 , the error ( i.e. precision ) can be approximated by @xmath18 , where @xmath5 is the sunspot number .",
    "the two numerical coefficients are time- and observer - dependent . by monitoring their evolution in time ,",
    "we witness how changes in the observation strategy have affected the error in the sunspot number since the early 19th century . *",
    "the nonlinear scaling of the error with sunspot number means that linear regressions between different sunspot records should be done with the utmost care .",
    "classical least square is not appropriate , as it tends to bias the results .",
    "we recommend instead error - in - variables - regression by total least squares .",
    "we have not addressed so far the estimation of errors from monthly , or from yearly sunspot numbers .",
    "indeed , these are quite different issues . in principle",
    ", such errors can be simply propagated from daily observations ( when available ) provided we know their covariance matrix .",
    "unfortunately , the correlation between successive values of the sunspot numbers depends on the different lifetimes of spots and groups , and that of observational errors .",
    "in addition , it depends on the level of solar activity . for these reasons ,",
    "the derivation of errors for monthly or yearly values is a task that requires a separate study .    before the 19th century , and for periods when the time coverage is sparser , error propagation may not be adequate , and other approaches need to be considered , such as the one described by @xcite , after revisiting some of their assumptions in the light of what we found here .",
    "the analysis of such sparse data is likely to become an important issue as more historical records are being uncovered @xcite . for such irregular observations , the spectral - noise estimate ( see section  [ sec_estimating ] ) could be a fallback solution .",
    "however , this estimator becomes unreliable as the sample size shrinks .    on time - scales of months and beyond ,",
    "linear autoregressive models are no longer adequate either .",
    "the reason for this is not the sample size , but the requirement to have nonlinear models in order to properly describe the sunspot number on those time - scales ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "another major challenge is the assessment of the stability of the sunspot number , which is crucial for properly reconstructing past solar activity .",
    "our time - domain estimates are of no help here , because they only detect short - term variations .",
    "our dispersion error diagnoses the presence of long - term errors in the sunspot number , but it can not remove them . clearly , this will become an important issue for future revisions of the international sunspot number .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge funding from the european community s seventh framework programme ( fp7 , 2012 ) under grant agreement no 313188 ( solid , + projects.pmodwrc.ch/solid ) .",
    "we sincerely thank the anonymous referee for carefully reviewing the manuscript , and for making pertinent comments .",
    "c. frhlich .",
    "determination of time - dependent uncertainty of the total solar irradiance records from 1978 to present .",
    "_ journal of space weather and space climate _",
    ", 6:0 a18 , 2016 .",
    "doi : 10.1051/swsc/2016012 .",
    "url http://dx.doi.org/10.1051/swsc/2016012 .",
    "d.  sornette .",
    "_ critical phenomena in natural sciences : chaos , fractals selforganization and disorder : concepts and tools_. springer series in synergetics .",
    "springer verlag , heidelberg , 2nd edition , 2004 .",
    "i.  g. usoskin , k.  mursula , and g.  a. kovaltsov . .",
    "in a.  wilson , editor , _ solar variability as an input to the earth s environment _ , volume 535 of _ esa special publication _ , pages 165168 , september 2003 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> sunspot number series are subject to various uncertainties , which are still poorly known . </S>",
    "<S> the need for their better understanding was recently highlighted by the major makeover of the international sunspot number @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> we present the first thorough estimation of these uncertainties , which behave as poisson - like random variables with a multiplicative coefficient that is time- and observatory - dependent . </S>",
    "<S> we provide a simple expression for these uncertainties , and reveal how their evolution in time coincides with changes in the observations , and processing of the data . knowing their value is essential for properly building composites out of multiple observations , and for preserving the stability of the composites in time . </S>"
  ]
}