{
  "article_text": [
    "connecting the puzzling disturbances in both the gas and stellar disk of the milky way ( mw ) with the dark matter distribution of our galaxy and its dwarf companions may become possible in the gaia era ( perryman et al .",
    "gaia will provide parallaxes and proper motions for a billion stars down to @xmath0 ( de bruijne et al .",
    "2014 ) and radial velocities for stars with @xmath1 . by now",
    ", a plethora of stellar tidal streams have been discovered , including the sagittarius ( sgr ) tidal stream ( ibata et al .",
    "1997 ) , the monoceros stream ( newberg et al .",
    "2002 ) , and many others ( belokurov et al .",
    "a number of authors have attempted to infer the galactic potential by modeling stellar tidal streams ( e.g. johnston et al .",
    "1999 ) , but the limitations of determining accurate phase space information for the stream and simplistic modeling ( for example static halos ) have led to large uncertainties in the reconstruction of the galactic potential .",
    "more recently , observations of an asymmetry in the number density and bulk velocity of solar neighborhood stars have been interpreted as arising from a dark sub - halo or dwarf galaxy passing through the galactic disk , exciting vertical waves ( widrow et al . 2012 ; carlin et al . 2013 ; xu et al . 2015 ) .",
    "this corroborates a similar previous suggestion that the disturbances in the outer hi disk of our galaxy may be due to a massive , perturbing satellite ( chakrabarti & blitz 2009 ; henceforth cb09 ) .",
    "there is some evidence now for this predicted satellite , which may mark the first success of galactoseismology ( chakrabarti et al . 2016 ) .",
    "galaxy outskirts hold particularly important clues to the past galactic accretion history and dynamical impacts .",
    "extended hi disks reach to several times the optical radius ( walter et al . 2008 ) , presenting the largest possible cross - section for interaction with sub - halos at large distances ( where theoretical models _",
    "expect _ them to be , e.g. springel et al .",
    "the gas disk of our galaxy manifests large planar disturbances and is warped ( levine , blitz & heiles 2006 ) .",
    "chakrabarti & blitz ( 2009 ; 2011 ) found that these puzzling planar disturbances in the gas disk of our galaxy could be reproduced by an interaction with a sub - halo with a mass one - hundredth that of the milky way , with a pericenter distance of @xmath2 7 kpc , which is currently at @xmath2 90 kpc .",
    "this interaction also produces structures in the stellar disk that are similar to the monoceros stream at present day .",
    "chakrabarti et al .",
    "( 2015 ) found an excess of faint variables at @xmath3 , and chakrabarti et al .",
    "( 2016 ) obtained spectroscopic observations of three cepheid candidates that are part of this excess .",
    "the average radial velocities of these stars is @xmath2 163 km / s , which is large and distinct from the stellar disk of the galaxy ( which in the fourth quadrant is negative ) . using the period - luminosity relations for type",
    "i cepheids , we obtained an average distance of 73 kpc for these stars ( chakrabarti et al .",
    "2016 ) .",
    "tidal interactions remain manifest in the stellar disk for many crossing times , but the gas is collisional and disturbances in the gas disk dissipate on the order of a dynamical time .",
    "therefore , an analysis of disturbances in the gas disk can provide a constraint on the time of encounter ( chakrabarti et al . 2011 ) . ultimately , a joint analysis of the gas ( a cold , responsive , dissipative component that is extended such as the hi disk ) _ and _ the stars ( that retain memory of the encounter for many crossing times ) holds the most promise for unearthing clues about recent _ and _ past encounters .",
    "1:100 mass ratio perturber , ( right ) an image of the stellar density distribution . from chakrabarti & blitz ( 2009 ) . ]",
    "extended hi disks of local spirals have low sound speeds compared to their rotation velocity , and so are extremely sensitive to gravitational disturbances .",
    "furthermore , in the outskirts , atomic hydrogen traces the bulk of the ism ( bigiel et al .",
    "therefore , the outskirts of galaxies are less subject to the effects of feedback from supernovae and star formation that complicate the ism structure ( and the modeling thereof ) in the inner regions of galaxies ( christensen et al . 2013 ) . using the sensitivity of gaseous disks to disturbances , we constrained the mass and current radial distance of galactic satellites ( chakrabarti et al .",
    "2011 ; cb11 ; cb09 ) and its azimuth to zeroth order by finding the best - fit to the low - order fourier modes ( i.e. , low m modes that trace large - scale structures , @xmath4 kpc- scale , in the disk ) of the projected gas surface density of an observed galaxy .",
    "we tested our ability to characterize the galactic satellites of spirals with optically visible companions , namely , m51 and ngc 1512 , which span the range from having a very low mass companion ( @xmath2 1:100 mass ratio ) to a fairly massive companion ( @xmath2 1:3 mass ratio ) .",
    "we accurately recover the masses and relative positions of the satellites in both these systems ( chakrabarti et al .",
    "2011 ) . to facilitate a statistical study",
    ", we developed a simplified numerical approach along with a semi - analytic method to study the excitation of disturbances in galactic disks by passing satellites , and derived a simple scaling relation between the mass of the satellite and the sum of the fourier modes ( chang & chakrabarti 2011 ) .",
    "we later extended this method to also constrain the dark matter density profile of spiral galaxies ( chakrabarti 2013 ) .",
    "of particular interest now with the advent of gaia , is if we can detect the kinematical signature of this interaction in the stars that it perturbed at pericenter . if the stars for which radial velocities were obtained by chakrabarti et al .",
    "( 2016 ) are indeed part of the dwarf galaxy predicted by cb09 , then such a detection would enable a constraint on the orbit and angular momentum of this dwarf galaxy .",
    "price - whelan et al . ( 2013 ) have noted that the gaia data can be complemented by measuring rr lyrae stars in the mid - infrared , which would allow for distances accurate to 2 % out to @xmath2 30 kpc , i.e. , this would give accurate distances for the outer hi disk .",
    "the puzzles of the milky way disk ",
    "the large ripples in the gas disk , the many stellar streams , and the vertical waves in the galactic disk , need to be studied comprehensively . only for our galaxy",
    ", can we connect the dots between the orbits , the dynamical evolution of the satellites , the disk structure , and its place in the broader context of galaxy formation . a joint analysis of the data from gaia and hi surveys of the milky way should enable this effort ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the gaia satellite will provide unprecedented phase - space information for our galaxy and enable a new era of galactic dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> we may soon see successful realizations of galactoseismology , i.e. , inferring the characteristics of the galactic potential and sub - structure from a dynamical analysis of observed perturbations in the gas or stellar disk of the milky way . here , we argue that to maximally take advantage of the gaia data and other complementary surveys , it is necessary to build comprehensive models for both the stars and the gas . </S>",
    "<S> we outline several key morphological puzzles of the galactic disk and proposed solutions that may soon be tested . </S>"
  ]
}