{
  "article_text": [
    "graphene , single layer of carbon atoms arranged in a two - dimensional honeycomb lattice@xcite , has attracted enormous research interest due to superior electronic electrical conductivity@xcite , mechanical strength@xcite , thermal conductivity@xcite and unique optical properties@xcite . moreover ,",
    "the electronic and optical properties of graphene can be manipulated at the nanoscale in a desired way by controlling lateral size , shape , type of edge , doping level and the number of layers in graphene nanostructures@xcite . among those various nanostructures of graphene , graphene quantum dots ( gqds)@xcite offer a possibility to simultaneously control the electronic , magnetic and optical functionalities in a single material .",
    "gqds are classified according to their edge character since the edges play an important role in determining electronic , optic and magnetic properties of gqds@xcite .",
    "in particular , armchair and zigzag edges are the most stable edge structures@xcite while gqds with zigzag edges are found to exhibit unusual magnetic@xcite and optical@xcite properties due to the presence of a degenerate band of states at the fermi level",
    ".    properties of graphene nanostructures fabricated and observed upon substrates@xcite may become affected by imperfections due to the environment and become disordered . in particular , if the disorder has a long - range character , it can lead to charge localizations as electron - hole puddles@xcite .",
    "for instance , magnetic properties of graphene nanoribbons are found to be strongly dependent of long - range impurities@xcite .",
    "in addition , the role of electron - hole puddles on the formation of landau levels in a graphene double quantum dot was investigated experimentally by k. l. chiu _ _ et al.__@xcite .    on the other hand ,",
    "a striking optical property of graphene is the universal optical conductivity ( uoc ) which can be identified as explicit manifestation of light and matter interaction@xcite .",
    "the experimental observation of uoc for a graphene sheet seems to indicate that optical properties are robust against imperfections , although significant deviations from uoc at lower energies was observed@xcite . to our knowledge , a detailed theoretical investigation of combined effects of long - range disorder and electron - electron interactions on the optical properties of graphene quantum dots is still lacking .    in this work , we investigate theoretically electronic and optical properties of medium and large sized hexagonal armchair gqds consisting of up to 10806 atoms to understand the role of long - ranged disorder on the optical properties .",
    "our main contribution involves inclusion of electron - electron interactions within meanfield and many - body configuration interaction approaches .",
    "we show that the electron - electron interactions play a significant role in redistributing electron - hole puddles , thus strongly affecting the optical properties .",
    "we also investigate the large size limit of the gqds as compared to optical properties of bulk graphene@xcite and show that uoc can be observed in gqds with a diameter of 18 nm .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in sec .",
    "ii , we describe our model hamiltonian including electron - electron interaction and random potential term , and the computational methods that we use in order to compute optical properties of hexagonal armchair gqds .",
    "the computational results on the electronic and optical properties are presented in sec .",
    "finally , section iv provides summary and conclusion .",
    "in the tight - binding ( tb ) approach , the one electron states of gqd can be written as a linear combination of @xmath0 orbitals on every carbon atom since the @xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 orbitals are considered to be mainly responsible for mechanical stability of graphene .",
    "then , within the meanfield extended hubbard approach , hamiltonian can be written as :    @xmath4    where the first term represents tb hamiltonian and @xmath5 are the hopping parameters given by @xmath6 ev for nearest neighbours and @xmath7 ev for next nearest - neighbours@xcite .",
    "the @xmath8 and @xmath9 are creation and annihilation operators for an electron at the @xmath10th orbital having spin @xmath11 , respectively .",
    "expectation value of electron densities are represented by @xmath12 .",
    "the second term represent onsite and long range coulomb interaction , respectively .",
    "we take onsite interaction parameter as @xmath13 ev and long - range interaction parameters @xmath14 and @xmath15 for the first and second nearest neighbours with effective dielectric constant @xmath16@xcite , respectively .",
    "distant neighbour interaction is taken to be @xmath17 and interaction matrix elements are obtained from numerical calculations by using slater @xmath18 orbitals @xcite .",
    "last term corresponds to impurity potential @xmath19 account for substrate effects .",
    "after diagonalizing mean - field hubbard ( mfh ) matrix self consistently by starting with tb orbitals , we obtain the hubbard quasi - particle spectrum which has fully occupied valance band and completely empty conduction band .",
    "next , in order to take into account excitonic correlation effects , we solve the many - body hamiltonian for a hole and an electron :    @xmath20    here , the first term describes electron and hole quasi - particle energies obtained from the meanfield calculations , second term describes the electron - hole coulomb attraction , and the third and forth terms represent the electron - hole exchange interactions . indices with prime denotes electron states and without prime denotes hole states .",
    "the two - body electron - hole scattering matrix elements are calculated from two - body on - site and long - range coulomb matrix elements @xcite .    in this work ,",
    "we consider three different sizes of hexagonal armchair gqds ( see for example fig .",
    "1a ) consisting of 1014 , 5514 and 10806 atoms and having widths of 5 nm , 13 nm and 18 nm , respectively .        in order to model the long - range disorder due to charge impurities caused by substrate effects",
    ", we use a superposition of gaussian electrostatic potentials @xmath21 which are determined randomly to have a smooth potential landscape ( see fig .",
    "1b ) on the gqd .",
    "impurity potential is written as : @xmath22\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    where @xmath23 is chosen to be the potential peak value which is randomly generated between a minimum and maximum value for the impurity at @xmath24 . as being the width of the potential ,",
    "@xmath11 is determined to be 10 times the lattice constant in order to simulate long - range lattice scatterers . for 5",
    "nm , 13 nm and 18 nm wide gqds , respectively 4 , 20 and 40 source point of impurities are created .",
    "moreover , we considered 5 different randomly chosen potential configurations for each qd size .",
    "the main effect of long - range disorder on the electronic densities is the formation of electron - hole puddles@xcite , as seen from fig .",
    "1c , obtained by subtraction of the positive background charge from mfh electronic density . the effect of the electron - hole puddles on the optical properties will be investigated below using meanfield and configuration interaction approaches .",
    "interaction of gqd s electrons with photons are evaluated within electric dipole approximation by the interaction hamiltonian @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the photon s electric field and @xmath27 is the electron s position .",
    "hence , one can obtain absorption spectrum by using light - matter interaction which is described by fermi s golden rule as : @xmath28 where @xmath29 denotes dipole matrix element , @xmath30 and @xmath31 denote initial and final occupied molecular orbitals with initial energy @xmath32 and final energy @xmath33 , respectively , obtained by tb and mfh model . on the other hand , we obtain absorption spectrum which includes many - body correlations as : @xmath34 where @xmath35 annihilates a photon and adds an exciton to the ground state of the gqd .",
    "the final excitonic state @xmath31 is obtained from ci calculations , and @xmath36 is the ground state .",
    "in fig.2 , we investigate electronic densities corresponding to 20 lowest conduction and 20 highest valence states obtained from tb and mfh calculations for the largest gqd structure that we studied , which has 10806 atoms giving a width of 18 nm . we note that we repeated all the calculations for 5 different random potential landscape and observed similar behaviors . in the tb results , in addition to valance states accumulated around hills and conduction states around valleys ( see fig . 2a and 2b )",
    "as expected , we also observe valance states around valleys and conduction states around hills ( shown in circles , to be compared with fig.1b ) .",
    "however , when electron - electron interactions are included through mfh calculations , this unusual electronic distribution is smoothed and the abnormal localized states are washed out ( see fig . 2c and 2d )",
    "similar behavior was also observed in graphene nanoribbons@xcite .",
    "as we will see , the rearrangment of electron - hole puddles through electronic interactions has an important effect on optical properties .",
    "we observe that those abnormal localized states around fermi level are washed out as shown by white circles when electron - electron interaction is taken into account .",
    "energy spectra of clean ( upper panels ) and disordered ( lower panels ) gqds having width size of 5 nm ( 1014 atoms ) , 13 nm ( 5514 atoms ) and 18 nm ( 10806 atoms ) obtained by tb and mfh model are shown in fig.3 . for each case , the energy gap @xmath37 between between lowest unoccupied conduction state and highest occupied valence state obtained from the mfh calculations is indicated as well .",
    "as expected , @xmath37 decreases more rapidly as a function of size when impurities are present .",
    "more interestingly however , for larger size disordered gqds the difference between tb and mfh spectra become pronounced indicating that when charge inhomogeneities ( due to electron - puddle formation ) are present it is important to include the effects of electronic interactions .",
    "similar behaviour was also observed for other random potential configurations that we have tested .",
    "figure 4 shows absorption spectra corresponding to the gqds considered in fig.3 for energies up to 3 ev . in these calculations , gaussian distribution with a standard deviation of 0.1 ev was used in order to obtain smooth absorption curves .",
    "the results are obtained using tb ( line doted curve , red color online ) , mfh ( line plus signed curve , green color online ) and ci ( line cross signed curve , blue color online ) approaches .",
    "the uoc is indicated by black line as a reference . for clean gqds",
    ", there is no noticeable difference between the tb and mfh results , consistent with the results in fig.3 .",
    "we note that , as expected for the system size becomes large the smoothed absorption curves approaches the uoc value as the energy is lowered , until a sudden drop occurs due to finite size effects . for the ci calculations , 100 highest valence and 100 lowest conduction states",
    "were included to form a many - body basis set of 10000 excitonic states , to ensure convergence for energies up to 0.75 ev . as seen from fig.4a and fig.4b , the main effect of excitonic correlations",
    "is to blue shift the absorption spectrum@xcite . for the gqd larger than 13 nm , it was not possible to compute the ci absorption spectrum due to computational limits .",
    "when disorder is present , we observe a dramatic difference between the tb and mfh results , shown in fig.4b , d , f .",
    "this is mainly due to the redistribution of electron - hole puddles discussed in fig.2 . for the medium and large size gqds without electronic interactions , in tb calculations",
    ", both electrons and hole puddles may be present at the same locations , giving rise to stronger electric dipole coupling , thus higher absorption values in average at lower energies .",
    "note that the situation is different for the gqd with 1014 atoms , since the puddle formation is much less well defined as the size of the qd is reduced , and the specific form of the disorder landscape has a bigger role .",
    "we note that the ci results obtained for the disordered gqd with 5514 atoms which is smoothed using a 0.1 ev wide gaussian distribution is consistent with the experimental results for graphene sheet @xcite .        in fig.5 , in order to investigate the effect of ci results further",
    ", we plot the total density distribution of electron and hole pairs involved in the energy range between 0 ev and 0.3 ev for the 5514 atom gqd .",
    "as discussed earlier tb results ( see fig.5b - c ) give electron and hole puddles simultaneously on disorder potential valley and hills .",
    "mean field interactions smoothen the puddles so that excitonic hole states are now localized only on hills , and the electron states are localized on valleys as seen in fig.5d - e .",
    "the correlations have a less dramatic effect on the density distribution , but the electron states are now slightly more localized on a potential valley that is closer to the hole puddle ( see fig.5f - g ) .",
    "indeed , the electron - hole attraction is favorized in the ci calculations minimizing the distance between the electron and the hole , thus increasing the electric dipole strength and the absorption at lower energies .",
    "in conclusion , we have investigated electronic and optic properties of three different sizes of clean and disordered hexagonal armchair - edged gqds by applying tight - binding , mean field hubbard and configuration interaction models .",
    "long - ranged disorder give rise to formation of electron - hole puddles , which are , however poorly described by the tight - binding model alone .",
    "electronic interactions in the mean field picture reorganize the electron - hole puddles , strongly affecting the dipole moments between the low - energy states in the electronic spectrum . hence , inclusion of electronic interactions are found to be important in order to correctly describe the optical properties . as the system size",
    "is increased to 18 nm , absorption spectra obtained from configuration interaction method approach the experimental results leading to observation of universal optical conductivity@xcite .",
    "j. peng , w. gao , b.k .",
    "gupta , z. liu , r.r .",
    "aburto , l. ge , l. song , l.b .",
    "alemany , x. zhan , g. gao , s. a. vithayathil , b. a. kaipparettu , a. a. marti , t. hayashi , j.j .",
    "zhu and p. m. ajayan , nano letters * 12 * , 844 ( 2012 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we theoretically investigate the effects of long - range disorder and electron - electron interactions on the optical properties of hexagonal armchair graphene quantum dots consisting of up to 10806 atoms . </S>",
    "<S> the numerical calculations are performed using a combination of tight - binding , mean - field hubbard and configuration interaction methods . </S>",
    "<S> imperfections in the graphene quantum dots are modelled as a long - range random potential landscape , giving rise to electron - hole puddles . </S>",
    "<S> we show that , when the electron - hole puddles are present , tight - binding method gives a poor description of the low - energy absorption spectra compared to meanfield and configuration interaction calculation results . as the size of the graphene quantum dot </S>",
    "<S> is increased , the universal optical conductivity limit can be observed in the absorption spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> when disorder is present , calculated absorption spectrum approaches the experimental results for isolated monolayer of graphene sheet . </S>"
  ]
}