{
  "article_text": [
    "novel robotic fabrication techniques for non - standard concrete structures rely on the interplay of control systems and the evolution of material performance during setting and early hydration .",
    "one example is an innovative process for slip - forming of concrete pillars with variable cross - section using a flexible actuated mold [ 1 ] .",
    "the mold is significantly smaller than the structures produced and is continuously raised or `` slipped '' by a robot .",
    "the morphological design space is significantly extended with respect to traditional slip casting by actively deforming the hydrating concrete as it leaves the mold .",
    "however , the trade - off between deformability and strength restricts the time window for shaping to only a few minutes .",
    "the process is constrained by two types of failure : ( 1 ) local liquefaction due to the thixotropic nature of the material , leading to collapse of the structure and ( 2 ) crack formation due to the rapid rise of the plastic yield stress with respect to the current tensile strength .",
    "the technique has so far mostly employed a polymer fiber reinforced self - consoli - dating concrete ( scc ) , but has also successively been tested with steel fibers and standard steel reinforcement .",
    "the process involves first the preparation of one large batch of heavily retarded scc which is consecutively accelerated in smaller portions prior to casting [ 2 ] . for a review on retarders and superplasticizers as well as their impact on hydration",
    ", readers may refer to [ 3 - 5 ] . as the evolution of mechanical performance is affected by various factors ( e.g. details of the mixing protocol , variations in raw materials , temperature , humidity , etc . ) , continuous monitoring by means of simple on - line rheological measurements is necessary at all times during the process .",
    "the interpretation of such measurements requires knowledge of the evolution of the failure envelope , i.e. the failure criterion for general multi - axial stress states .",
    "both the fluid and solid properties of concrete have been studied extensively in the context of conventional casting techniques [ 6 ] .",
    "on one hand studies on the setting and strength development in fresh concrete typically report first measurements at an age of several hours [ 7 ] . on the other hand , studies on the workability of concrete focus on the thixotropy of fresh cement pastes typically for time spans up to one hour [ 8,9 ] . in this time scale ,",
    "yield strength is determined first by colloidal interactions and later on by the strength of the first soft , then increasingly rigid percolating network with csh bonds .",
    "explanatory models based on bonded particles suggest a linear stress - time relation after mixing up to 25 minutes after mixing [ 9 ] .    however , in studies over longer time periods an exponential relation was observed [ 10,11 ] . for the problem described above , it is crucial to describe the rheological and mechanical properties of the material during the early phase of its transition from a non - newtonian yield stress fluid to a cohesive frictional material .    to assess this early setting regime by mechanical testing for different stress states ,",
    "`` non - standard '' mechanical tests were devised covering a wide range of hydration states within the described bounds of liquefaction and fracture .",
    "they capture the strength evolution of the initially ductile material to a point where failure is brittle and starts to become dependent on hydrostatic stress .",
    "a set of 6 different test setups is described , the respective results are discussed  for simplicity without fiber reinforcement  and condensed into failure envelopes for plane stress evolving with the advancing state of hydration .",
    "the objective of this study is to determine the evolution of strength for arbitrary stress states in fresh scc , starting even before the onset of setting .",
    "material handling and test setups are designed to minimize unintentional thixotropic structural breakdown and to withstand gravity early on .",
    "all experiments were carried out in a single campaign .",
    "this work is limited to a single concrete mixture , designed to meet the requirements for the process of adaptive slip - forming .",
    "the scc comprises ( in grams per liter of the final mixture ) cem i 52.5 r portland cement ( 981.73",
    "g / l ) , sand aggregates of up to 4 mm in diameter ( 740.34",
    "g / l ) , the mineral admixtures fly ash ( 164.67",
    "g / l ) and silica fume ( 92.89",
    "g / l ) , as well as a superplasticizer ( 4",
    "g / l ) as a water reducing admixture and water ( 371",
    "g / l ) . the scc is heavily retarded by means of a sucrose solution ( 30% d(+)sucrose ( 99.7% ) and 70% water , 2.7",
    "g / l ) and subsequently accelerated ( 60",
    "g / l ) when taken from the retarded batch , to obtain a constant workability and strength evolution over the entire timespan of the slip - forming process .",
    "the slump diameter is typically 20 to 22 cm and the final density of the mixture amounts to 2400 kg / m@xmath0 .",
    "special attention was given to maintaining a consistent mixing procedure for all experiments using a rotating pan mixer at predefined mixing speeds ( 40 or 80 rpm ) and intervals ( in min ) interrupted by cleaning of edges and blades ( step denoted cl ) .",
    "after homogenizing the dry material at 80 rpm for 5 min ( denoted by 80/5 ) all fluid parts except the accelerator were added and mixed 40/5 and 80/1 .",
    "the sequence cl-40/1-cl-80/3 followed , before accelerator was added and finally mixed with 80/5 .",
    "between 5 to 10 min after mixing the samples were cast into the respective molds and put to rest . because of the thixotropic structural buildup at rest , it is crucial to cast all samples within the shortest time span possible ( cf .",
    "[ 8 - 9,12 ] ) .",
    "all samples were stored and tested under controlled climatic conditions ( 50% relative humidity at 20@xmath1c ) for a period of up to 12 hours after mixing , with experiments starting as early as possible with each test method .",
    "the penetration test ( fig.1a ) employed a force gauge , recording forces up to 1000 n with 0.2 n accuracy .",
    "for all other setups ( fig.1b - f ) a universal testing machine , equipped with a 10 kn load cell with 0.1 n accuracy was used .",
    "note that due to the fresh state of the material , an accurate determination of the degree of hydration through calorimetry and other means proved unfeasible .",
    "rate effects , such as thixotropy or viscoelasticity , are not addressed here . instead , a constant displacement rate @xmath2 of 1 mm / s was employed , which lies in a regime where the dependence on the test rate was observed to vanish . in addition , the chosen rate allowed for swift execution of each measurement and thus depicted a snapshot in the material evolution where ongoing hydration and flocculation during testing were negligible .",
    "a total of 6 different mechanical test setups were employed , named ( a)-(f ) and shown in fig.1a - f with dimensions being summarized in tab.1 .",
    "specimen size effects , e.g. arising from the presence of aggregates , were precluded by initial tests with varying dimensions .",
    "each test series of ( b)-(f ) was accompanied by penetration tests ( a ) on the same material . the specimen geometries and loading conditions",
    "are described in the following .",
    "a rigid cylinder of diameter @xmath3 and height @xmath4 was driven at constant velocity @xmath2 into a basin of concrete of depth @xmath5 . the resistance experienced by the indenter",
    "was recorded as a function of the penetration depth .",
    "the total displacement imposed was of the order of @xmath3 which is sufficient to reach a steady state flow for fresh concrete .",
    "the test was fully automatized using a tri - axial robot and 3 concrete basins , each accommodating 17 separate penetration measurement points .",
    "the penetration test forms the basis of the subsequent analysis .",
    "it is performed on all material samples in parallel to the other tests ( b)-(f ) .",
    "the test is based on astm c403/c403m-08 [ 13 ] and its use for this application has already been reported in [ 14 ] .",
    "a cylindrical indenter with diameter @xmath3 cuts a hole into a flat cylindrical concrete sample at constant @xmath2 .",
    "the associated reaction force was recorded versus depth .",
    "the sample of diameter @xmath6 and height @xmath5 was vertically and radially supported by a mold comprising a hole of diameter slightly larger than @xmath3 .",
    "the sample is thin in the sense that @xmath7 , yet thick enough to contain a sufficient amount of aggregates to assume a homogeneous material .",
    "this setup is inspired by the standard shear punch test , e.g. astm d732 - 10 [ 15 ] .",
    "the setup for measuring early shear strength is similar to the jenike shear cell ( astm d6128 - 14 [ 16 ] ) .",
    "the upper compartment ( gray hatched area in fig.1c ) was horizontally displaced at constant rate @xmath2 , measuring its resistance .",
    "a steel cable translated the vertical movement of the testing machine via a pulley to the sample .",
    "contrary to a classical shear cell , no normal force was applied and two horizontal plates , attached to the lower and upper compartments respectively , produced a notch for cleaner shear conditions at the fracture plane .",
    "an array of pins near the lower and upper surfaces of the sample ( not shown in fig.1c ) ensured a rigid body motion of the two concrete blocks even when the sample was fresh .",
    "note that rollers at the top suppressed the separation of the compartments .",
    "cylindrical concrete samples were vertically compressed by a plate moving at rate @xmath2 .",
    "the sample diameter @xmath3 was chosen large enough to avoid size effects due to inhomogeneous particle distribution at walls , and @xmath8 was big enough to allow a slip layer to form diagonally to the loading direction .",
    "samples were cast on a base plate using pipe segments lined with a thin sheet of teflon treated with a mold - releasing agent . just before testing the sample was demolded and the teflon sheet carefully detached to preserve the thixotropic structural buildup in the sample at early stages of hydration .",
    "tensile testing was implemented using a mold of two separable parts . unlike conventional tensile specimens , fresh concrete can not be clamped . in order to enhance shear force transmission from the mold to the sample",
    ", several rows of pins were attached laterally to the box walls , decreasing in size towards the center of the specimen .",
    "a round notch of radius @xmath9 reduced the effective cross section of the sample to @xmath10 with width @xmath3 and height @xmath5 .",
    "note that the notch segments were free to move after casting and therefore did not exert any significant loads on the material during testing . at time of testing the right half ( gray in fig.1e )",
    "was horizontally separated from its fixed counterpart ( white ) at constant velocity @xmath2 using a similar cable - and - pulley configuration as in test ( c ) .",
    "to obtain the flexural strength , four - point bending tests on prismatic samples of size @xmath11 similar to astm c78/c78 m [ 17 ] were performed as soon as the material was able to withstand the gravitational load at the supports ( distance @xmath12 ) . the loading frame ( distance @xmath13 ) moved at v while the reaction force of the sample was recorded .",
    "tests are valid only if a tensile crack formed at the lower side of the sample within @xmath13 , where the bending moment is maximal and homogeneous . note",
    "that contrary to tests ( a)-(e ) four - point bending was only applicable to specimens from a relatively advanced state of hydration on .",
    "[ tab1 ]    [ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]      finally , the strength envelope , generally represented by a convex surface in 6-dimensional stress space , is constructed .",
    "the envelope joins all points of failure in the stress space , thus delimiting the field of stable stress configurations within the envelope from the failure field outside the envelope .",
    "owing to the isotropic behavior of the ( unreinforced ) concrete and the ensuing rotational symmetries of the elasticity tensor , the strength envelope can be expressed in only 3 dimensions , e.g. in terms of the principal stresses .",
    "each strength measurement represents a point on the strength envelope for the given state of hydration ( or reference time since mixing ) .",
    "the above test setups , with the exception of the penetration and punch tests for which the tri - axial stress state is not a priori known , impose plane stress conditions where at least one principal stress component is negligible .",
    "therefore , it is sufficient to examine failure in the @xmath14-plane , where the strength envelope reduces to a closed convex curve .",
    "such curves can be estimated for a given time after mixing by taking strength values from the exponential fits to tensile , compressive and shear test data as shown in fig.9 for 100 to 300 min after mixing .",
    "curves are drawn through these points in the @xmath14-plane by means of a spline interpolation in cylindrical coordinates @xmath15 .",
    "the early strength data , up to an order of a few kpa , correspond well with the von mises criterion .",
    "thereafter strength becomes increasingly pressure sensitive , thus the curves extend far into the pressure zone .",
    "clearly , the accuracy of the resulting envelope could be greatly improved by collecting more experimental data under various bi - axial stress states .      additionally , it is possible to calculate the cohesion @xmath16 and internal friction angle @xmath17 based on the compressive and tensile strength evolution e.g. for the coulomb - mohr and drucker - prager models .",
    "the drucker - prager yield surface describes an infinite cone in principal stress space , where @xmath16 is the intercept of the cone with the principal stress axes and @xmath18 describes the opening angle ( aperture ) of the cone . the cohesion , a measure of overall strength particularly under tension , increases roughly exponentially in the observed time frame . as expected , @xmath16 continues to grow at a slower rate after the regime transition .",
    "the friction angle , closely related to the difference in compressive and tensile strength , increases rapidly from 0 to 48 degrees at the transition , and is set to grow only slightly thereafter .",
    "the strength evolution during early hydration is of increasing importance with the growing recognition for new technologies in concrete fabrication such as concrete printing or adaptive slip casting .",
    "it was shown by evaluating more than 500 individual samples in six different non - standard experimental setups at times of up to 12 hours after mixing , that two principal regimes govern the strength evolution : a first one , where the material is ductile and where shear , compressive and tensile strengths are well - represented by the von mises criterion . at the transition , typically around 3 hours after mixing for the scc studied , cracks begin to prevail and failure is increasingly dependent on the hydrostatic component of stress , as seen e.g. by the divergence between compressive and tensile strengths .",
    "the second regime is characterized by significantly slower strength increase , but at a similar rate for tension and compression . in both regimes , strength scales exponentially with time over several orders of magnitude .",
    "this differs with respect to observations on small time scales accessible to rheometers , where a linear relation is found [ 9 ] . to make the findings applicable to more general states of stress , failure envelopes in plane stress space at different concrete ages were constructed , which would finally converge to the final strength envelope known for hardened high - strength concrete , reported for biaxial stress states e.g. in [ 23 - 24 ] . despite variations in the strength evolution of different material batches , the current failure envelope is accessible by a simple penetration measurement .",
    "there are limitations to this study that go beyond the choice of a single concrete mix .",
    "considerable differences in evolution occurred across samples due to variations in raw materials and temperature . a meaningful interpretation of the collected data necessitated correction procedures , such as the time shift method proposed herein .",
    "by shifting solely in time ( and not in force ) , however , it is assumed that the penetration force is a state variable uniquely describing the material .",
    "thus it is ignored for now , that flocculation and hydration can evolve differently  therefore calling for at least two state variables and evolution laws [ 25 ]  and that the same strength does not necessarily imply an identical state of the material .",
    "instead , samples were casted systematically at the same time after mixing and it was assumed that flocculation and hydration depend equally on temperature ( or that the effect of temperature on flocculation is very small compared to hydration ) .",
    "however , the influence of flocculation on the yield stress is limited to time scales that are significantly below the ones addressed in this study [ 9 ] .",
    "the validity of these assumptions was demonstrated only within the parameter space of the experiments that keeps in mind the technological design window of the adaptive slip - casting process .",
    "the support by the eth zurich under ethiira grant no .",
    "eth-13 12 - 1 `` smart dynamic casting '' , as well as from the european research council advanced grant no .",
    "319968-flowccs is acknowledged .",
    "we thank david walker , lukas bodenmann and stefan aebersold , who contributed to this work by preparatory studies and also express our gratitude to ena lloret , nicolas roussel and peter fischer for numerous useful discussions on the topic .",
    "* e. lloret , a.r .",
    "shahab , l.k .",
    "mettler , r.j .",
    "flatt , f. gramazio , m. kohler , s. langenberg , complex concrete structures merging existing casting techniques with digital fabrication , comput .",
    "aided design 60 ( 2014 ) 4049 . *",
    "shahab , e. lloret , p. fischer , f. gramazio , m. kohler , r.j .",
    "flatt , smart dynamic casting or how to exploit the liquid to solid transition in cementitious materials , extended abstract , 7th international rilem conference on scc , paris ( 2013 ) . * g. gelardi , s. mantellato , d. marchon , m. palacios , a. eberhardt , r.j .",
    "flatt , chapter 9  chemistry of chemical admixtures , in science and technology of concrete admixtures , ed .",
    "atcin and r.j .",
    "flatt , woodhead publishing ( 2016 ) , 149 - 218 .",
    "* d. marchon , r.j .",
    "flatt , chapter 8  mechanisms of cement hydration , in science and technology of concrete admixtures , ed .",
    "atcin and r.j .",
    "flatt , woodhead publishing ( 2016 ) , 129 - 145 .",
    "* d. marchon , r.j .",
    "flatt , chapter 12  impact of chemical admixtures on cement hydration , in science and technology of concrete admixtures , ed .",
    "atcin and r.j .",
    "flatt , woodhead publishing ( 2016 ) , 279 - 304 . * k. kovler , n. roussel , properties of fresh and hardened concrete , cem .",
    "41 ( 2011 ) 775 - 792 .",
    "pinto , a.k .",
    "schindler : unified modeling of setting and strength development , cem .",
    "40 ( 2010 ) 58 - 65 .",
    "* n. roussel , a thixotropy model for fresh fluid concretes : theory , validation and applications , cem .",
    "36 ( 2006 ) 1797 - 1806 .",
    "* n. roussel , g. ovarlez , s. garrault , c. brumaud : the origins of thixotropy of fresh cement pastes , cem .",
    "42 ( 2012 ) 148 - 157 . * a. perrot , a. pierre , s. vitaloni , v. picandet : prediction of lateral form pressure exerted by concrete at low casting rates , mater .",
    "48 ( 2015 ) 2315 - 2322 .",
    "subramaniam , x. wang : an investigation on microstructure evolution in cement paste through setting using ultrasonic and rheological measurements , cem .",
    "40 ( 2010 ) 33 - 44 .",
    "* g. ovarlez , x. chateau , influence of shear stress applied during flow stoppage and rest period on the mechanical properties of thixotropic suspensions , phys . rev .",
    "e 77 ( 2008 ) 061403 . *",
    "standard test method for time of setting of concrete mixtures by penetration resistance , astm c403-/c403m-08 ( 2008 ) .",
    "* e. lloret , l.k .",
    "mettler , a.r .",
    "shahab , f. gramazio , m. kohler , r.j .",
    "flatt , smart dynamic casting : a robotic fabrication system for complex structures , 1st concrete innovation conference , oslo ( 2014 ) .",
    "* standard test method for shear strength of plastics by punch tool , astm d732 - 10 ( 2010 ) . *",
    "standard test method for shear testing of bulk solids using the jenike shear cell , astm d6128 - 14 ( 2014 ) .",
    "* standard test method for flexural strength of concrete ( using simple beam with third - point loading ) , astm c78-/c78m-10 ( 2013 ) .",
    "van mier : fracture processes of concrete , crc press , 1997 .",
    "moller , j. mewis , d. bonn , yield stress and thixotropy : on the difficulty of measuring yield stress in practice , soft matter 2 ( 2006 ) 274 - 283 .",
    "bullard , h.m .",
    "jennings , r.a .",
    "livingston , a. nornat , g.w .",
    "scherer , j.s .",
    "schweitzer , k.l .",
    "scrivener , j.j .",
    "thomas , mechanisms of cement hydration , cem .",
    "41 ( 2011 ) 1208 - 1223 .",
    "* d. lootens , p. jousset , l. martinie , n. roussel , r.j .",
    "flatt , yield stress during setting of cement pastes from penetration tests , cem . concr .",
    "39 ( 2009 ) 401 - 408 .",
    "* j. lubliner , plasticity theory ( dover books on engineering ) , dover publications ( 2008 ) . * h. kupfer , das verhalten des betons unter zweiachsiger beanspruchung ( in german ) , report , lehrstuhl fr massivbau , technical university munich , no .",
    "78 ( 1969 ) 124 ff .",
    "* a. nimura , experimental research on failure criteria of ultra - high strength concrete under biaxial stress ( in japanese ) , architectural institute of japan , structures ii vol . c ( 1991 ) 473 - 474 . * p. coussot , rheometry of pastes , suspensions , and granular materials : applications in industry and environment , j. whiley & sons inc . ,",
    "hoboken , new jersey ( 2005 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the early strength evolution of self - consolidating concrete ( scc ) is studied by a set of non - standard mechanical tests for compressive , tensile , shear and bending failure . </S>",
    "<S> the results are applicable in an industrial environment for process control , e.g. of slip casting with adaptive molds in robotic fabrication . </S>",
    "<S> a procedure for collapsing data to a master evolution curve is presented that allows to distinguish two regimes in the evolution . in the first , </S>",
    "<S> the material is capable of undergoing large localized plastic deformation , as expected from thixotropic yield stress fluids . </S>",
    "<S> this is followed by a transition to cohesive frictional material behavior dominated by crack growth . </S>",
    "<S> the typical differences in tensile and compressive strength of hardened concrete are observed to originate at the transition . </S>",
    "<S> finally , the evolution of a limit surface in principal stress space is constructed and discussed .    ,    mechanical properties ( c ) , hydration ( a ) , rheology ( a ) , strength ( c ) , concrete ( e ) </S>"
  ]
}