{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxies are expected to form within the deep potential wells of dark matter halos ( @xcite , for a general introduction see @xcite ) .",
    "this galaxy - dark matter connection suggests that simulations of the histories and spatial distributions of dark matter halos can be used as scaffolding for models of galaxy histories and distributions . simulating galaxy properties based upon dark matter simulations ranges from from detailed semi - analytic models ( see , for example , reviews by @xcite ) of several galaxy properties at all times , which model and predict many different processes , to models such as the halo model which assign galaxies of a certain kind to dark matter halos at a fixed time by requiring that they match observed clustering and number counts ( @xcite ,",
    "also see more recent incarnations such as @xcite ) or variants such as conditional luminosity functions @xcite ) or abundance matching in luminosity and ( proxy for ) halo mass ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the resulting galaxy distributions can then be compared to observations , testing the physical assumptions used in their construction .",
    "these methods are also used to construct mock galaxy catalogues ( synthetic skies ) to aid in designing and analyzing galaxy surveys .",
    "more time intensive hydrodynamical simulations , which include and thus fix the baryonic physics and subgrid models for each cosmological run are also being developed , see e.g. @xcite for some comparisons of trade - offs .",
    "all of these approaches are currently being developed and extended .    here ,",
    "a simple model defined by @xcite is explored .",
    "it creates statistical samples of galaxy formation histories based upon the growth of dark matter subhalos , producing stellar masses and star formation rates for every subhalo in the simulation .",
    "( in what follows the terms subhalo and halo will be used interchangeably unless specifically noted . )",
    "much of the physics is encapsulated in an average relation between stellar mass and halo growth found by @xcite .",
    "@xcite matched observations of stellar mass functions and star formation rates to average dark matter halo histories at a series of redshifts , and found that @xmath0 each subhalo has stellar mass @xmath1 and subhalo mass @xmath2 ( virial mass , in their approach ) .",
    "the star formation efficiency @xmath3 is a weakly time dependent function of subhalo mass @xmath2 and is publicly available at www.peterbehroozi.com/data.html .",
    "the simple @xcite model uses this relation for average stellar mass gain to assign stellar mass and star formation rates to individual subhalos throughout their histories in a dark matter simulation , once a rule for inheriting stellar mass from progenitor galaxies is added .",
    "@xcite suggested one such rule for inheriting stellar mass , as well as the addition of a random component to star formation .",
    "( stellar mass is also lost due to aging . )",
    "galaxy distributions produced by the @xcite model , with his simulation , have a @xmath4 galaxy stellar mass function close to observations .",
    "the star formation rates are also bimodal , although not agreeing as closely with observations in detail @xcite .",
    "a wealth of galaxy properties follow from having a stellar mass and star formation rate attached to each galaxy throughout its history , in addition to the stellar mass and star formation rates themselves .",
    "colors can be found by integrating a stellar population synthesis model over the star formation rate history .",
    "galaxy positions , velocities and environments are immediate , inherited from the host dark matter simulation . in particular , colors are linked to environment inasmuch as environment affects halo growth .",
    "it is thus interesting to examine further properties of this model beyond redshift zero , and how it depends upon different simulations and other properties .",
    "the inheritance of stellar mass , the definitions of halo mass and halo mass gain , and the underlying dark matter simulation are all varied here , and compared to observations at redshifts 0 to 2 . in addition , properties of the ensemble of resulting galaxy formation histories are compared to those of three other methods , two full blown semi - analytic models and one straw man model .",
    "several other simple models have also been proposed , predicting an assortment of galaxy properties for redshifts zero and above , for example those by @xcite .",
    "the approach in the @xcite model seems closest to that of @xcite , as the stellar masses are tied to subhalo properties directly ( with the gas physics implicit ) .",
    "the underlying simulations and the construction of the galaxy histories are described in  [ sec : background ] . in  [ sec : simmeas ] , comparisons are made with several observations at different redshifts .",
    "the ensemble of galaxy histories of this simple model are compared via pca ( as in @xcite ) to some other more predictive models based upon dark matter simulations , in  [ sec : histories ] .",
    "discussion and conclusions are in  [ sec : conc ] . the appendix  [ sec : appmsmh ] gives the formulae in detail for the two stellar mass to halo mass prescriptions which are compared to the simulations .",
    "appendix  [ sec : howto ] describes how to make the plots used in ",
    "[ sec : simmeas ] for a single mock galaxy catalogue , using codes at https://www.github.com/jdcphysics/validation/ ( the code valid_suite.py in the code subdirectory vsuite ) . to use this code , a list of galaxy stellar masses , star formation rates and subhalo masses",
    "are needed as input , which can lie in either a light cone , a fixed time periodic box , or just have some fixed redshift and a random position ( if generated analytically ) .",
    "most of the observational data for these tests are in the redshift range 0 to 1 , i.e. overlapping with redshifts at the centers of the currently running dark energy survey ( des , www.darkenergysurvey.org ) and the upcoming lsst ( www.lsst.org ) .",
    "the galaxy histories in @xcite are based upon subhalo histories in a particular dark matter simulation .",
    "three different simulations are considered here , with parameters and other details shown in table [ tab : dmsims ] , along with the names and properties of the different variations constructed with the simulations . adding a `` 2 '' in front of the names listed in table [ tab : dmsims ] refers to the inheritance of the stellar mass from the two most massive progenitors rather than just the most massive progenitor , described in ",
    "[ sec : construction ] below .",
    "the simulation used by @xcite is also listed for comparison .",
    "all of the simulations were done with periodic boxes , with sides of length @xmath5 .",
    "they differ in time resolution , particle number , cosmological parameters , methods for making trees and methods for calculating halo masses .    [",
    "cols=\"<,<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     slices of specific star formation rate in different mass bins can also be calculated , these are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ssfr ] for the tree , bolp and bolpmvir models ( only the 1 progenitor models are shown here , there is not much difference for the 2 progenitor models ) .",
    "the tree model has the most quiescent galaxies , in part because the tree satellites are almost all quiescent ( as their subhalo masses are fixed to their infall subhalo mass unless they merge ) .",
    "the satellites in the bolp and bolpmvir versions can ( and do ) have subhalo and thus stellar mass gain .",
    "the bolpmvir model , with instantaneous mass gain , has more galaxies with high specific star formation rates than the smoothed and constrained @xmath6 bolp model ( also seen for bolmvir compared to bol ) .",
    "the instantaneous mass @xmath7 is presumably more stochastic in mass gain than its smoothed and constrained counterpart . at the highest stellar masses , the smoothed and constrained bolp",
    "specific star formation rates often show a less clean bimodality than the bolpmvir or tree specific star formation rates .      the relations used to get stellar mass and star formation rates were measured for average , binned halo mass and stellar mass gains .",
    "the model here uses these rates to assign stellar mass and star formation rates to individual galaxies . as the average of a non - linear function of some quantity is not the same as the non - linear relation on the average of that quantity , the resulting average stellar mass functions and star formation rates may or may not agree with observations . here ,",
    "the resulting stellar mass functions are compared to each other and observations for all , quiescent and star forming galaxies .      before comparing with observations",
    ", it should be noted that the observational stellar mass functions available do not all completely overlap , even including their error bars . in table",
    "[ tab : smfobs ] , the different stellar mass function observations used are listed , along with many of their properties . at the bottom are two compilations , from @xcite and @xcite . although stellar mass is motivated in part by the wish to reduce differences between observations ( such as different wavebands )",
    ", assumptions made in calculating stellar masses can differ between observations and between the models used to predict the stellar masses .",
    "the surveys whose data are shown below were analyzed with a variety of stellar population synthesis models , dust models , initial mass functions ( imf ) , and cosmological parameters .",
    "the @xcite model for assigning stellar mass and star formation rates has specific choices for these properties built in as well .",
    "it uses star formation efficiencies from @xcite , corresponding to a @xcite(bc03 ) stellar population synthesis model , with @xcite dust and a chabrier imf ( they convert all measurements they use to this common basis , i.e. that used by the bwc_comp compilation in table [ tab : smfobs ] ) .    for some of the observational data available at these redshifts , the stellar population synthesis models are instead either fsps @xcite or @xcite .",
    "@xcite is used by the @xcite ; the conversion to bc03 is taken from that paper , i.e. @xcite , @xmath8 .",
    "conversions between bc03 and fsps are not available .",
    "dust models also include those by @xcite and others , and the cosmos - ultravista @xcite observations use use a kroupa imf instead of a chabrier imf .",
    "the stellar mass functions based on the kroupa imf are converted by rescaling the kroupa @xmath1 by 0.61/0.66 @xcite .",
    "in addition to variations in stellar mass definitions , different surveys have different definitions of quiescent and star forming ( shown in the last column of table [ tab : smfobs ] ) .",
    "@xcite use the sfr-@xmath1 relation in eq .",
    "[ eq : primuscut ] above , also shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : mstarsfr ] as a dashed line in each panel .",
    "it is not a good fit for the models here ( again because the center of the quiescent branch in the models does not change with redshift , and likely because also primus uses a different population synthesis model and dust model than that used to calculate the star formation efficiencies in @xcite ) . in more detail",
    ", the primus sfr is calculated via isedfit ( as is @xmath1 ) , which takes measurements in all of their specific filters .",
    "in contrast , @xcite separate quiescent and active stellar galaxies using uvj and @xcite separate colors using nuvrk .",
    "for comparison with the simulations , the stellar mass functions for the quiescent and star forming populations are simply plotted as given ( after any known conversions for stellar mass or imf have been included as above ) . as can be seen below , sometimes , but not always , the uvj and nuvrk separated stellar mass functions have strong overlap with the stellar mass functions found using the star formation -@xmath1 cut , eq .",
    "[ eq : primuscut ] of @xcite .",
    "conversions between these different definitions of stellar mass and quiescence are not always straightforward without reanalyzing the full observational sample , and the data required for conversions are not always available .",
    "comparisons of one fixed observational data set with several different stellar mass modeling assumptions are found in the appendix of @xcite for primus ; tools for such comparisons such as ezgal @xcite can also be used .",
    "one additional consideration is that the observed volumes are often still relatively small , although efforts have been made to estimate the sample variance errors ( for example , the sample variance estimate in zfourge follows @xcite ) .",
    "it is also possible that the covariance of the scatter between different stellar mass bins described in @xcite may need to be included at some point .",
    "the above observational stellar mass functions were compared to the different models constructed here , at a range of redshifts .    a first example is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : smfz0 ] , for the bol , bolmvir , bolp and tree models at @xmath4 , along with observational data from table [ tab : smfobs ] at the same redshift .",
    "the histograms are from the simulations , and include observational scatter via the lognormal ( @xmath9 ) distribution of @xcite , with variance @xmath10 as a function of redshift .",
    "the dotted histogram shows one of the models ( as indicated ) without this observational scatter . in this and",
    "all figures following , the points and smooth lines are various observational data sets , as indicated , and further detailed , in table [ tab : smfobs ] .",
    "( the smooth lines are schechter fits to the observations provided by those analyses . )    the bol and bolmvir models are based upon the simulations ( with a disfavored cosmology ) used to calculate the original star formation efficiencies ( @xmath11 in eq .",
    "[ eq : dmstardmh ] , by @xcite ) .",
    "these may be expected to have the best match to observations as a result .",
    "the difference between bol and bolmvir is the choice of mass and method for calculating accreted mass ( see table [ tab : dmsims ] ) . for both panels at @xmath4 , the models based upon the @xmath12 smoothed and constrained halos masses give lower stellar mass functions at low stellar mass than the models based upon instantaneous mass ( @xmath7 for bolmvir and @xmath13 for tree ) .",
    "the lowest stellar mass function at low stellar mass is for the bol models , which has the best agreement with observations . at high stellar mass , except for the tree variants , the observations fall between the 1 and 2 progenitor models , implying some criteria to mix the two will work ( such as the simulation specific criterion of @xcite ) .    at higher redshift , fig .",
    "[ fig : smfall ] , the agreement of the bol stellar mass function with observations decreases , while the agreement with observations of the tree stellar mass function varies .",
    "the tree model , with instantaneous @xmath13 , tends to be higher than bolp at low redshift , but then falls below it at @xmath14 and closer to the observations .",
    "the bolpmvir model , based upon instantaneous @xmath7 and not shown , has stellar mass functions which are closer than bolp to those of the tree model but with a slightly different shape than the tree model .",
    "it is hard to interpret the changes between the tree and bolpmvir model as not only does the average relation between these two mass definitions evolve with redshift , but the details of physical mass gain are likely to differ between these definitions as well .    at @xmath15",
    "the stellar mass functions of the simulated galaxies lie at or slightly above the observations for all models shown , especially near the break in the stellar mass function .",
    "the models overlap closely for all models sharing the same cosmology , including those not shown , aside for a small variation at high stellar mass due to 1 or 2 progenitors contributing final stellar mass .",
    "an estimate can be made of the quiescent and star forming stellar mass functions by using the division between the populations in terms of star formation rate and stellar mass seen in  [ sec : mstarsfr ] .",
    "again , the caveats about different definitions of quiescent and star forming in the observations should be kept in mind ( table [ tab : smfobs ] ) .",
    "for comparison of star forming and quiescent stellar mass functions , the tree and bolp models will be shown , as they are based upon simulations closer to the current best fit parameters .",
    "their quiescent and star forming stellar mass functions are shown at 4 different redshifts in fig .",
    "[ fig : smfcolor ] .    in comparison to the observations ,",
    "the simulated models give too many quiescent galaxies at low stellar mass .",
    "for the tree model , some of the quiescent galaxy excess is built in .",
    "the tree satellite subhalos only increase their subhalo mass from their infall mass through merging , and so tend to only have the random added by hand component of star formation ( in eq .",
    "[ eq : dmstardmh ] ) . as a result",
    ", the tree model has only small fraction of star forming satellites ( about 1 percent ) .",
    "this almost automatic satellite quenching does not occur the bolshoi and bolshoi - p based models , which have much larger fractions of star forming satellites .",
    "however , all of these variants show an excess of quiescent galaxies at low stellar mass ( also for the bol , etc . ,",
    "simulations , not shown ) . this may be made even worse if the center of the quiescent branch ( a feature chosen by hand ) is moved to a higher specific star formation rate to agree with observations , as suggested by the stellar mass - star formation rate diagrams in  [ sec : mstarsfr ] .",
    "to summarize , the model upon which the star formation efficiencies were tuned has a good match to the low stellar mass component of the stellar mass function at @xmath16",
    ". for higher stellar mass , the 1 progenitor and 2 progenitor models tend to separate and the observational data usually falls between the two , suggesting the use of some combination of the two models which generalizes the prescription of @xcite ) to arbitrary time steps , mass resolution , and perhaps including redshift dependence .",
    "there seems to be an excess of low stellar mass quiescent galaxies for all models . at the highest redshift",
    "considered , @xmath15 , the stellar mass functions of all the models tended to become degenerate , aside from differences due to cosmology , and a small change if 1 or 2 progenitors contributed stellar mass to a galaxy .",
    "the models with the current best fit cosmology lie mostly above the observed stellar mass function at @xmath15 .",
    "a third comparison quantity between the models and observations is how a galaxy of a given stellar mass inhabits a dark matter halo , @xmath17 . for the simulation based models ,",
    "this relationship is immediately available .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : msmh ] , the curves show two measurements of @xmath17 from observations , by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "( the functional forms of the curves are in appendix  [ sec : appmsmh ] . ) as the simulated halo masses are @xmath7 halo masses , and @xcite uses @xmath18 masses , the @xcite curve is shown both with and without an applied average conversion @xcite to the halo masses , to give an idea of the size of the conversion effect .",
    "these @xmath17 fits differ in the assumed cosmology and also in the observations used to derive them .",
    "both use @xcite , while @xcite also uses @xcite , and @xcite also use @xcite in the redshift range @xmath19 .",
    "the observational stellar mass functions for both fits have the @xcite stellar population synthesis models with a chabrier imf , and so are expected to be comparable to the @xcite models here , which has both of these assumptions incorporated into the star formation efficiencies",
    ". however , the dust model of @xcite might differ .",
    "although the two theoretical curves look different , errors for @xcite , given in , e.g. , the downloads sfh_z0_z8.tar.gz available at www.peterbehroozi.com , are often large enough to encompass @xmath17 for @xcite .",
    "the @xcite and @xcite curves are compared to the bol , bolmvir , tree and bolp simulated 1 and 2 progenitor models in fig .",
    "[ fig : msmh ] , at redshift 0 and 2 . for simplicity ,",
    "only the 1 progenitor bol or tree model is shown in detail . in this case , the red line in the center of every box is the median , and the boxes go from lower to upper quartile of the data .",
    "the solid black lines above and below are 10th to 90 percentile . for the other 3 models ,",
    "only the median values are shown : green triangles are for the 2 progenitor tree or bolp models , green xs for the 1 progenitor bolp and bolmvir models and green stars for the corresponding 2 progenitor models .",
    "the example shown in detail shows that the median tends to lie near the average of the distribution except towards high halo mass .",
    "all galaxies are included here , not just central galaxies . as there is large scatter in the measured @xmath17 , roughly a factor of two for bwc13 for example ( not shown for clarity ) ,",
    "the lack of exact agreement with the medians of the distributions in the simulations is not a concern , although all of the model distributions look high at redshift @xmath20 .",
    "however , the 2 progenitor models at high stellar mass seem to put galaxies in halos with not enough mass ( except for the 2tree model at high redshift ) .",
    "again , this suggests that a combination of 1 and 2 progenitor models may agree with observations .    to summarize the comparison between the models and observations , the simulated galaxies have stellar mass - star formation rate relations which are clearly bimodal , but which seem to have star formation rates which are low , on the whole , compared to @xcite , and the difference increases with redshift",
    ". this may be in part due to difference in stellar mass definitions and the by - hand choice of the position and scatter of the quiescent branch .",
    "the models based upon instantaneous halo mass ( tree , bolmvir , and bolpmvir ) tend to have more features in their stellar mass - star formation rate diagrams , relative to those built upon the smoothed and constrained @xmath6 . in the specific star formation rate ,",
    "the models are similar , although the smoothed @xmath6 models sometimes do not have as clear a break in specific star formation rate between the star forming and quiescent galaxies .",
    "the tree models have the largest number of quiescent galaxies , in part because almost all of the satellites are quiescent .",
    "the stellar mass function at low redshift agrees best with observations for the simulation which was also used to find the observational star formation efficiencies as a function of mass ( upon which the model here is based ) . at high redshift @xmath15 , all of the simulations have stellar mass functions which overlap for variants which have the same cosmology ( aside from some variation at high stellar mass between to 1 or 2 progenitor versions ) , and all have some overlap with observations , although high near the bend in the stellar mass function .",
    "there seems to be an excess of faint quiescent galaxies at all redshifts in all models .",
    "the stellar mass to halo mass relations are mostly reasonable , although they tend to be higher than the central values found observationally , and the 2 progenitor models are far from observational constraints , especially at high halo mass and low redshift .",
    "it seems some combination of 1 and 2 progenitor models , with the criteria flexible enough for different time steps and halo mass resolution , may be able to reach the observational values falling in between the two variants for the stellar mass to halo mass relation .",
    "another possibility is to lower the stellar mass per halo via more stellar loss mass into the icl , even from just one progenitor .",
    "the models constructed here are very simple when compared to many others found in the literature and yet seem to have reasonable observable properties .",
    "it is thus interesting to see how they compare to semi - analytic models , which use and evolve many more physical halo and galaxy properties , and give many more predictions .",
    "one way to compare different galaxy formation models is to look at the ensemble of histories of galaxies they produce .",
    "properties of the histories of galaxy formation , for a large number of galaxies in a model , is another way to characterize how galaxies form in that model .",
    "( only simulations , where individual galaxies can be followed throughout their whole history , can be analyzed this way . )    in this section the full ensemble of galaxy histories for several variants of the @xcite model are compared in terms of their average histories , the variance around the average history , the leading fluctuations around the average history and the fraction of variance in several of the ( leading ) fluctuations around the average history .",
    "these quantities are readily available using principal component analysis ( pca ) . using pca ,",
    "the ensembles of histories of stellar masses , in both a semi - analytic model and a hydrodynamical model , were found to be well approximated as combinations of only a few basis fluctuations around the average history in @xcite . in this section ,",
    "histories of the simple models constructed above are compared to histories of the @xcite semi - analytic models built upon the millennium @xcite simulation , which have many more parameters and detailed predictions , and a straw man model based solely upon subhalo mass .    to implement pca ,",
    "the stellar mass history of every galaxy in a simulation is taken to be a vector , with the stellar mass at each time corresponding to a different component of the vector .",
    "one can then study and classify the properties of the distribution of these vectors for a given set of histories , i.e. instance of a galaxy formation model .",
    "principal component analysis ( pca ) , mixture models and k - means clustering were all considered in @xcite . here",
    "pca is used , as it gives several quantities to compare besides the separation of histories into classes .",
    "pca is applied by finding the covariance matrix of the different components of the vector of stellar mass histories and diagonalizing it . in @xcite , the model histories studied from @xcite had fluctuations around the average stellar mass history which could be described in large part by only 3 basis fluctuations times some coefficients .",
    "( in more detail , galaxies compared were taken to have approximately the same final stellar mass , and @xmath21 90% or more of the variance around the average was captured by 3 basis fluctuations out of 42 ) .",
    "the pca approach thus compactly describes the full ensemble of stellar mass histories in a model , for any given final stellar mass .",
    "one of the models from @xcite is considered here , for comparison , the @xcite model built upon the millennium @xcite simulation .",
    "a second updated model , @xcite , also built on the millennium simulation , is used to illustrate the variations found for this method between reasonable semi - analytic models . along with these",
    ", the 1 and 2 progenitor varieties of the tree , bolp and bol models are analyzed using pca .",
    "( as a reminder , galaxies in both 1 and 2 progenitor variants of the @xcite model gain stellar mass from star formation based on their accreted halo mass , however , for the 1 progenitor variant , only the stellar mass of the most massive progenitor is inherited by a galaxy , while in the 2 progenitor variant the stellar mass of the two most massive progentors is inherited . ) in addition , a straw man model is considered , where stellar mass is completely determined by @xmath22 of @xcite .",
    "that is , every halo in the treepm trees is required to lie exactly on the average @xmath17 relation at every time step ( although the relation came from abundance matching , this is not abundance matching per se , as scatter is not included ) . for this straw man model",
    ", satellites are assigned @xmath22 at infall redshift @xmath23 , and have fixed stellar mass afterwards .",
    "the @xcite @xmath17 relation is given by eq .",
    "[ eq : mosmsmh ] in the appendix , and shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : msmh ] for a few redshifts . as",
    "this relation requires @xmath24 masses , the fof masses are converted via @xcite .",
    "( this @xmath17 model is related to one presented in @xcite , which there included scatter . )    as in @xcite , the histories are studied for small ranges of final stellar masses . in that study , a qualitative change in the history properties occurred around final stellar mass @xmath25 .",
    "thus , here @xmath26 , @xmath27 , and @xmath28 are chosen as final stellar masses .",
    ", 2.95 - 3.05 @xmath29 and 9.5 - 10.5 @xmath30 in final stellar masses . altering ranges by a small amount did not seem to change the results significantly . ]",
    "the different underlying dark matter simulations have different numbers of time steps .",
    "the histories are followed from redshift @xmath31 to @xmath32 , which takes 42 steps in the millennium simulation , 91 in the treepm simulation , 165 in the bolshoi simulation and 142 in the bolshoi - p simulation .",
    "doing pca on the different histories as given , with their different time steps and numbers of time steps relative to millennium , leads to much larger scatter in the models explored in this paper , which all have many more time steps than the millennium simulation .",
    "these model histories are thus interpolated to the values where the two millennium based models have outputs , to make the scatter in the histories more directly comparable .",
    "( this increase of scatter with number of steps was not as evident when comparing the hydrodynamic simulations , with 20 time steps , with the @xcite stellar mass histories , with 42 time steps , in @xcite . )",
    "these interpolated histories with 42 time steps are the ones compared in the figures .",
    "in addition , histories where any step had more than a 30% mass drop were taken out , which varied from up to 1 percent in the 2bolp model to 0 in the semi - analytic models .",
    "some results of pca analysis of these stellar mass ranges , for these nine models are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : comphist3 ] .",
    "each figure ( corresponding to a different final stellar mass ) shows the average histories for galaxies in each of the 9 models , from redshift 0 to 4.5 . the number of @xmath33 ( basis fluctuations around the average ) needed to get 90 percent of the variance is shown in the legend , more @xmath33 ( or in a few cases the same ) are needed for the simple models explored in this note , relative to the semi - analytic models .",
    "this number of components should be compared to the total number of @xmath33fluctuation components , 42 , to estimate how well a few fluctuations capture the variance of the ensemble of galaxy histories .",
    "( or 41 components , as one component is trivial because the final stellar masses in each set of galaxy histories are all rescaled to coincide before applying pca . )",
    "the larger the fraction of variance due to the first few @xmath33 , the better the histories can be approximated by only these first few @xmath33 times some coefficient , added to the average history .",
    "the total variance for each model is listed in the legend at right , in units of the final stellar mass squared .",
    "the average history and form of the leading fluctuation , @xmath34 , are similar using either the original simulation time steps or the interpolated ones .",
    "generally @xmath34 ( not shown , the fluctuation whose coefficients have the most variance around the average history ) has a single peak which tends to be at earlier times for average histories which have earlier stellar mass gain .",
    "the results for each different final stellar mass are as follows .    for the lowest final stellar mass example , @xmath35",
    ", the average histories for the @xcite and @xcite models differ noticeably from each other .",
    "this is consistent with the fact that @xcite models were in part designed to have later formation of low final stellar mass galaxies than the @xcite model .",
    "the @xmath17 model has even later stellar mass gain .",
    "the 6 variants of the @xcite models , independent of cosmology , number of progenitors , or mass definition used , roughly collapse onto one trajectory , with average stellar mass gain later than both semi - analytic models .",
    "they do not just track halo mass , although they overlap with the @xmath36 model at early times .",
    "around redshift @xmath20 , they gain stellar mass more quickly than the @xmath17 model on average .",
    "the leading fluctuation @xmath34 around the average galaxy histories is very similar for the 6 models constructed here , and differs for the other 3 .",
    "going to the second plot , for @xmath37 , the two millennium models become much closer to each other , while the 6 models constructed here start to split into roughly two groups , tree and bol , bolp . at early times , the average tree history is similar to the average @xcite history , however , at redshift 1.5 and after , the stellar mass gain for the tree models increases sharply to join that of the other models constructed here , much more quickly than the two semi - analytic models or the @xmath17 model . not only do the average histories and leading fluctuations split between tree and bol , bolp , but",
    "the variance around the two tree models is over twice that for the other four @xcite based models .",
    "all 6 models constructed here again require more principal components to capture at least 90% of the variance around the average history , relative to the semi - analytic models .",
    "again , the 1 and 2 progenitor variants have very similar average histories and scatter .    the highest final stellar mass sample , @xmath38 , analyzed in the third set of plots , shows significant differences between the 6 models constructed using @xcite .",
    "first of all , the @xmath17 model now has earlier stellar mass gain on average compared to the millennium based @xcite models , which are similar to each other .",
    "( this similarity is expected as much of the change between the two semi - analytic models was aimed at galaxies with lower final stellar mass . )",
    "the average histories for the 2 progenitor bol and bolp models are very close to that of the @xmath17 model , while the other variants gain stellar mass much earlier .",
    "as these high stellar mass galaxies are often quiescent at late times , it is possible that in the semi - analytic models these high stellar mass galaxies are inheriting stellar mass from even more than two progenitors to get the later stellar mass gain . for this larger final stellar mass ,",
    "the total variance is higher for the 2 progenitor bol , bolp models and lower for the 1 progenitor bol , bolp models , relative to the semi - analytic models , while both tree variants have more variance around the average history .",
    "all six have the same or a larger number of components required to capture 90% of the fluctuations than the @xcite semi - analytic model , and more ( i.e. @xmath39 ) than the @xcite model ; in fact the @xcite model requires only 2 basis components to capture 90% of the variance around the average history for all final stellar masses considered here .    in summary ,",
    "the average stellar mass histories and fluctuations for the models constructed here differ from those in the two millennium based semi - analytic models , and the @xmath17 straw man model , for all final stellar mass ranges considered .",
    "this is independent of dark matter simulation or mass definition used , or how many progenitors contribute to the stellar mass of a descendant halo ( however , the models do all have the same star formation efficiency , so other model changes are in principle possible ) . for low final stellar mass ,",
    "the different models constructed here have almost the same average history , and the perturbation of each corresponding to the direction of largest variance is also very similar . as the final stellar mass increased , these models separated out .",
    "when they differed , the 1 progenitor models tended to have earlier stellar mass gain than the 2 progenitor models , for fixed final stellar mass .",
    "it is interesting that although the models are simpler in construction than the semi - analytic models , they tend to require more basis fluctuations to capture most of their variance , and their variance around the average history , except for the 1 progenitor models for the largest final stellar mass , is also larger .",
    "this might hint at some smoothness in the semi - analytic models that is not captured with the simplifications used here .",
    "( for the tree model , some of the variance for the tree model is due to the random star formation .",
    "setting the random star formation to zero for @xmath40 reduces the variance from by about 20% , however the number of principal components to capture 90% of the variance is unchanged . )",
    "the @xcite model assigns stellar masses and star formation rates to subhalos in a dark matter simulation , primarily using halo mass gain to determine stellar mass gain .",
    "galaxy distributions and histories were calculated for three different dark matter simulations , with differing cosmologies , mass definitions , mass history constructions and time step separations , to find out how much these simulation and other differences affect observable properties in this model , and how well the different variations match current observations at several redshifts .",
    "bimodality in the star formation rate occurred for all implementations , with the scatter in the star forming branch roughly due to changes in accretion history , and the center and scatter for the quiescent branch put in by hand ( which would otherwise be at zero star formation rate ) .",
    "the division between quiescent and star forming galaxies as a function of stellar mass and star formation rate differs from that found in @xcite , but some difference may be due to differences stellar mass definitions .",
    "another difference between these observations and the models is that the split between the model star forming and quiescent galaxies does not evolve as strongly as redshift increases ( to higher star formation rates ) .",
    "this is in part because the center of quiescent branch , put in by hand , is currently fixed at all redshifts , while observationally the quiescent branch increases in star formation rate with redshift .",
    "( the model star forming branch does rise , although not fast enough for its peak to remain within the star forming branch of @xcite . )    for stellar mass functions , no variant matched observations perfectly for all redshifts , although the best fit to stellar mass functions at low redshift was based on a simulation with cosmology and mass definition similar to that used to construct the model s star formation efficiencies .",
    "using a simulation based upon the current best fit cosmology gives stellar mass functions which are too high at low redshift , consistent with the halo mass function being larger in the current best fit cosmology . at low redshift , using the instantaneous mass as dark matter halo mass rather than the smoothed and constrained @xmath6 produced a slight increase in the stellar mass functions at the lower stellar masses , and using both instantaneous mass and only subtracting the mass of the most massive progenitor ( rather than a weighted sum of all progenitor masses ) gives a further increase . at high redshift , the stellar mass functions seem less sensitive to choices of halo mass and methods of inheriting stellar mass from progenitors .",
    "some dependence upon cosmology remains .",
    "all tend to be high relative to the central value for the observed stellar mass functions , especially near the bend in the stellar mass function , although the models based upon the cosmology used to calculate the star formation efficiencies might be argued to be closer .    dividing the quiescent and star forming galaxies according to the bimodality seen in star formation rate , the quiescent galaxy stellar mass function tended to be too high for all models at low stellar mass . for the tree model , where satellite subhalos are assigned their infall mass aside from mergers , satellites are almost all quiescent (",
    "about 1 percent have enough random star formation to be classified as star forming using the by eye separation from the @xmath41 diagrams ) .",
    "the excess of faint quiescent galaxies also appears in the other models , however , which can have 1/3 or more satellites which are forming stars .",
    "the models had two variations for inheriting stellar mass , from either 1 or 2 progenitors .",
    "these two cases tend to bracket the observed stellar mass function at low redshift and high stellar mass . at higher redshift ,",
    "they get closer to each other but also increase relative to the observed stellar mass function , eventually lying mostly above at @xmath15 .",
    "the models all seem to be above the central stellar mass to halo mass relations calculated from observations , although close enough to be within errors for most cases .",
    "aside from the tree model , the stellar mass to halo mass relation changed significantly between the 1 and 2 progenitor variants at high stellar mass , with the latter rising far above observations .",
    "these results suggest some ways to improve the model .",
    "* presumably the star formation efficiencies would work better for the current cosmology simulations if the efficiencies were calculated assuming the best current fit cosmology .",
    "this should help with the overshoot in estimated stellar mass for many redshifts , perhaps including the tendency to fall high at high redshift for all the models .",
    "in addition , more data is now available on stellar mass functions and star formation rates at these redshifts . *",
    "tying the star formation rate of satellites to subhalo mass gain for satellites is difficult in some halo finders , for instance those which fix the satellite subhalo mass to infall mass aside from mergers .",
    "perhaps some other way of having the satellite star formation rate evolve would also work ( for instance the decaying star formation rate in @xcite , or the delayed quenching of @xcite ) . * the quiescent star forming branch ,",
    "put in by hand , likely should increase in star formation rate as the redshift increases .",
    "* it seems a combination of inheriting from 1 and 2 progenitors ( or maybe more ) might succeed .",
    "this could perhaps depend upon the stellar mass and/or mass ratios of progenitors .",
    "for instance , @xcite note that for higher halo mass , more stellar mass comes in from mergers , so perhaps some sort of final halo mass dependence would also be appropriate . the stellar mass to halo",
    "mass relation often shows a strong sensitivity to 1 or 2 progenitors contributing stellar mass . * the high values of @xmath17 relative to observations ,",
    "if not improved by changing the cosmology to the current best fit ( the current best fit cosmology has more high mass halos than that used in the star formation efficiencies @xcite ) , may be improved by making more stellar mass go into the icl , even from a single progenitor",
    ".    it would be also interesting if certain properties ( e.g. the excess of faint quiescent galaxies at high redshift ) could not be improved by only changing the small number of physical assumptions currently in the model .",
    "the underlying assumption is that galaxies self - regulate ( e.g. as in @xcite ) their growth , so that the influx of halo mass ( and thus presumably baryons ) combined with the mass dependence of star formation is enough to capture many of the properties of evolution .",
    "looking at the ensemble of galaxy histories , with fixed final stellar mass , all 6 @xcite based models considered had average histories differing from the semi - analytical models . for low final stellar mass galaxies ,",
    "all 6 had very similar average histories , as final stellar mass increase , these became distinct .",
    "for the highest final stellar mass studied , @xmath42 , the average histories of the 2 progenitor bol and bolp models , where the inherited stellar mass of a galaxy is the sum of that of its two largest progenitors , follows the average history of galaxies for which @xmath43 at every time step .",
    "compared to the two semi - analytic models , there is often more scatter around the average histories for the models constructed here ( except for the highest final stellar mass ) , and they require the same or more basis fluctuations to capture at least 90% of the variance",
    ". it would be interesting to see how other similar simple models , e.g. , @xcite , compare in these ensemble properties as well .    given the simplicity of this model , it seems interesting to pursue it further , as it appears that many of its predictions work reasonably well at redshifts above zero .",
    "it would be interesting to look in further detail at the simulated galaxy populations , for instance to see if starbursting galaxies appear automatically within the population and if so , if their number agrees with observations .",
    "the dark matter simulations also include galaxy positions and velocities , and the full cosmological cosmic web .",
    "when more high redshift observations with large volume become available , it would be interesting to compare the model with additional observations such as clustering a function of stellar mass , star formation rate ( once that is better understood in the model ) and environmental properties .",
    "for instance , if conformity of central galaxies in halos is indeed tied to halo growth @xcite , see also @xcite , this effect is built into this model , as are other properties tying stellar mass and star formation rate to halo growth .",
    "it would also be interesting to push the model to higher redshifts .",
    "i thank m. white for numerous discussions and use of his simulated treepm data set , and phillip harris for early calculations of galaxy history pca s .",
    "i also thank m. becker , p. behroozi , l. guzzo , j. moustakas , a. munoz , n. padilla , m. van daalen , and f. van den bosch , for discussions , a. gonzalez and c. mancone for help with and explanations of ezgal ( and j. moustakas for sharing the primus results using different stellar mass assumptions , which was very helpful in order to explore their effects ) , and m. becker , m. van daalen and m. white for extremely helpful suggestions on an earlier draft .",
    "this work was performed in part at the aspen center for physics which is supported by national science foundation grant phy-1066293 .",
    "i am also grateful to the roe and the iap for hospitality during this work , and to the roe for the opportunity to present this work in a seminar and get very helpful feedback as a result",
    ". the treepm simulation by m. white was run at nersc , and many of the models presented here were run there as well .",
    "the millennium simulation databases used in this paper and the web application providing online access to them were constructed as part of the activities of the german astrophysical virtual observatory ( gavo ) .",
    "the bolshoi - planck simulation was performed by anatoly klypin within the bolshoi project of the university of california high - performance astrocomputing center ( uc - hipacc ) and was run at the nasa ames research center .",
    "jdc was supported in part by doe .",
    "the tests shown above are available ( for testing one mock catalogue ) at https://www.github.com/jdcphysics/validation/ ( the code and data are in the code subdirectory vsuite ) .",
    "they consist of a python file , valid_suite.py , and then several data files , many of which were kindly made available by the people who made and analyzed the observations .",
    "observational data sets are described above in  [ sec : obssmfs ] and table [ tab : smfobs ] .",
    "to run the python codes , you also need to have matplotlib and numpy , which will be imported when you run the program . to produce the plots above in  [ sec : simmeas ] for one simulated model the command is :    * runsuite*(zcen , fname , hval , omm , slopeval , shiftval , + boxside , delz , ramin , ramax , decmin , decmax )    here are two examples :    * fixed time periodic box of side 256 @xmath44 mpc , redshift 0.45 , data file `` inputfile.dat '' , hubble constant 0.67 , @xmath45 , default split of @xcite , i.e. eq .  [ eq : primuscut ] , between star - forming and quiescent galaxies",
    ". + * runsuite*(0.45,inputfile.dat,0.67,0.31,0,0,256,perbox  ) * light cone , where one wants to look at a slice @xmath46 , ra and dec both between @xmath47 , otherwise same as above : + * runsuite*(0.45 , `` inputfile.dat'',0.67,0.31,0,0,-1,lc,0.02,-2,2,-2,2 )    it can be useful to start with * slopeval , shiftval * = 0 , and then vary these by looking at the stellar mass - star formation rate diagram , until the solid line falls between the two regions of star formation .    parameters in detail :    * * zcen : * central redshift * * fname : * input file name , in quotation marks , i.e. `` inputfile.dat '' * * hval : * hubble constant @xmath48 * * omm : * @xmath49 * * slopeval : * adjustments to quiescent vs. star - forming galaxy split of primus @xcite , i.e. in eq .",
    "[ eq : primuscut ] @xmath50 divides quiescent and star - forming galaxies . *",
    "* shiftval : * see above ( * slopeval * ) * * boxside : * box side in @xmath51 for fixed time periodic box , any negative number for light cone * * runname : * a string , for name of run , e.g. `` bolshoi '' * * delz : * @xmath52 , i.e. for light cone , keep galaxies in range @xmath53 to @xmath54 , ignored for fixed time box . * * ramin : * ra minimum value for light cone , ignored for fixed time box . *",
    "* ramax : * ra maximum value for light cone , ignored for fixed time box . *",
    "* decmin : * dec minimum value for light cone , ignored for fixed time box . *",
    "* decmax : * dec maximum value for light cone , ignored for fixed time box .",
    "the input file is a list of galaxies in the simulation , in ascii format .",
    "each galaxy is a different row , and the order and units of the entries are :    @xmath55 $ ] , sfr ( @xmath56$]/yr ) , ra , dec , zred , ifsat , @xmath57 $ ]    * ra and dec are ignored for a fixed time box , zred is used to calculate @xmath17 .",
    "* ifsat = 0 if a central , 1 if a sat * @xmath2 ideally is @xmath58 , units are @xmath59 ( no @xmath48 )    here is an example of part of an input file for a periodic box ( ra and dec are both set to 1 since they are not used , and the redshift is set to that of the box ) : @xmath60 the observational data used for the stellar mass functions depends upon the redshift , for the stellar mass to halo mass relation the curves are from @xcite , and the stellar mass - star formation rate plots can be compared to fig .  1 of @xcite , for example .",
    "the observational relations for @xmath61 found by @xcite are tuned to the observations of @xcite ( 664 arcmin@xmath62 ) and @xcite ( 33 arcmin@xmath62 ) .",
    "those by @xcite have the observations of @xcite ( 664 arcmin@xmath62 ) and @xcite ( 5.5 @xmath63 ) in the same region",
    ". both sets of observational stellar masses are found using the @xcite stellar population synthesis models with a chabrier imf .",
    "the relation from @xcite is @xmath64 \\label{eq : mosmsmh}\\ ] ] ( with their equations 11,12,13,14 ) @xmath65 the best fit parameters are in their table 1 .",
    "the 1-@xmath66 errors on coefficients for @xmath67 are ( in order appearing above ) are ( 0.236 , 0.353 , 0.0058 , 0.0069 , 0.153 , 0.225 , 0.059 , 0.173 ) . here",
    "@xmath68 is halo mass , @xmath18 , and @xmath1 is stellar mass .",
    "the @xcite fit is of the form ( their equation 3 ) @xmath69 with parameters ( section 5 of their paper ) @xmath70 both stellar mass to halo mass relations are plotted for each stellar mass bin in fig .",
    "[ fig : msmh ] , but errors are not shown .",
    "baldry , i. k. , glazebrook , k. , brinkmann , j. , ivezic , z. , lupton , r. h. , nichol , r. c. , szalay , a. s. , 2004 , apj , 600 , 681 baldry , i. k. , glazebrook , k. , driver , s. p. , 2008 ,",
    "mnras , 388 , 945 baldry , i. k. , driver , s. p. , loveday , j. , et al , 2012 , mnras , 421 , 621 baugh , c.m . , 2006 , rept .",
    ", 69 , 3101 , becker , m. , 2015 , arxiv:1507.03605 behroozi , p. , wechsler , r. , wu , h - y .",
    ", 2013 , apj , 762 , 109 behroozi , peter s. , wechsler , risa h. , wu , hao - yi , busha , michael t. , klypin , anatoly a. , primack , joel r. , 2013 , apj , 763 , 18 , code at http://www.peterbehroozi.com/code.html , behroozi , p.s . ,",
    "wechsler , r.h . , conroy , c. , 2013a , apj , 770 , 57 , behroozi , p.s . ,",
    "wechsler , r.h . , conroy , c. , 2013b , apjl , 762 , 31 bell , e. f. , mcintosh , d. h. , katz , n. , weinberg , m. d. , 2003 , apj supp .",
    ", 149 , 289 benson , a.j . , 2010 , phys .",
    ", 495 , 33 birrer , s. , lilly , s. , amar , a. , aranjape , a. , refregier , 2014 , apj , 793 , 12 blanton , m. r. , & roweis , s. 2007 , aj , 133 , 734 blumenthal , g. r. , faber , s.m .",
    ", primack , j. r. , rees , m. j. , 1984 , nature , 311 , 517 borgani , s. , kravtsov , a.r . , 2012 , ara & a , 50 , 353 bouch , n. , dekel , a. , genzel , r. , genel , s. , cresci , g. , foerster schreiber , n. m. , shapiro , k. l. , davies , r. i. , tacconi , l. , 2010 , apj , 718 , 1001 bruzual , g. , charlot , s . , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 calzetti , d. , armus , l. , bohlin , r. c. , et al 2000 , apj , 533 , 682 cardelli , jason a. , clayton , geoffrey c. , mathis , john s. , 1989 , apj , 345 , 245 cattaneo , a. , mamon , g. a. , warnick , k. , knebe , a. , 2011 , a&a 533 , 5 charlot , s. , & fall , s. m. 2000 , apj , 539 , 718 cohn , j.d .",
    ", van de voort , f. , 2015 , mnras , 446 , 3253 conroy , c. , gunn , j. , white , m. , 2009 , apj , 699 , 486 conroy , c. , wechsler , r.h . , 2009 , apj , 696 , 620 conroy , c. , white , m. , gunn , j. , 2010 , apj , 708 , 58 conroy , c . , gunn , j. , 2010 , apj , 712 , 833 cooray , a. , sheth , r. , 2002 , phys .",
    "reps . , 372 , 1 davis m. , efstathiou g. , frenk c.s .",
    ", white s.d.m . , 1985 , apj , 292 , 371 diemand j. , kuhlen m. , madau p. , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 649 , 1 dominguez sanchez , h. et al , 2011 , mnras , 417 , 900 guo , q. , white , s. , angulo , r. e. , henriques , b. , lemson , g. , boylan - kolchin , m. , thomas , p. , short , c. , 2013 , mnras , 428 , 1351 hahn , o. , porciani , c. , dekel , a. , carollo , c.m .",
    ", 2009 , mnras , 398 , 1742 hearin , a.p . ,",
    "behroozi , p.s . ,",
    "van den bosch , f.c .",
    ", 2016 , mnras , 461 , 2135 hearin , a.p . ,",
    "zentner , a.r . ,",
    "van den bosch , f.c . ,",
    "campbell , d. , tollerud , e. , 2016 , mnras to appear henriques , b. m. b. , white , s. d. m. , thomas , p. a. , angulo , r. , guo , q. , lemson , g. , springel , v. , overzier , r.,2015 , mnras , 451 , 2663 hopkins , p.f . ,",
    "quataert , e. , murray , n. , 2011 , mnras , 417 , 950 ilbert o. , salvato m. , le floch e. , et al , 2010 , apj , 709 , 644 ilbert , o. , mccracken , h. j. , le fevre , o. , et al , 2013 , as- tronomy and astrophysics supplement series , 556 , a55 klypin , a. , trujillo - gomez , s. , primack , j. , apj , 740 , 102 ( 2011 ) .",
    "rockstar trees at http://www.slac.stanford.edu/@xmath21behroozi/bolshoi_trees/ klypin , a. , yepes , g. , gottlober , s. , prada , f. , hess , s. , 2016 , mnras , 457 , 4340 rockstar trees at http://yun.ucsc.edu/sims/bolshoi_planck/trees/index.html kriek , m. , van dokkum , p. g. , labb , i. , et al 2009 , apj , 700 , 221 lemson , g. , and the virgo consortium , 2006 , arxiv : astro - ph/0608019 li , c. , white , s. d. m. , 2009 , mnras , 398 , 2177 lilly , s. j. , carollo , c. m. , pipino , a. , renzini , a. , peng , y. , 2013 , apj , 772 , 119 lu , z. , mo , h. j. , lu , y. , katz , n. , weinberg , m. d. , van den bosch , f. c. , yang , x. , 2014 , mnras , 439 , 1294 lu , z. , mo , h. j. , lu , y. , katz , n. , weinberg , m. d. , van den bosch , f. c. , yang , x. , 2015 , mnras , 450 , 1604 madau , p. , dickinson , m. , ara&a , 52 , 415 mancone , c. l. , gonzalez , a.h .",
    ", 2012 , pasp , 124 , 606 , maraston , c. , 2005 , mnras , 362 , 799 marchesini , d. , van dokkum , p. g. , forster schreiber , n. m. , franx , m. , labb , i. , wuyts , s. , 2009 , apj , 701 , 1765 marchesini , d. , whitaker , k. e. , brammer , g. , et al , 2010 , apj , 725 , 1277 mo , h. , van den bosch , f. , white , s. , 2010 , _ galaxy formation and evolution _ , cambridge university press , cambridge moster , b.p . ,",
    "naab , t. , white , s.d.m . , 2013 ,",
    "mnras , 428 , 3121 , moster , b. p. , somerville , r. s. , newman , j. a. , rix , h .- w .",
    ", 2011 , apj , 731 , 113 moutard , t. , et al , 2016 , a & a , 590 , 102 moustakas , j. , et al , 2013 , apj 767,50 , mutch , s. j. , croton , d. j. , poole , g. b. , 2013 , mnras , 435 , 2445 muzzin , a. , et al , 2013 , apj , 777 , 18 neistein , e. , khochfar , s. , dalla vecchia , c. , schaye , j. , 2012 , mnras , 421 , 3579 schaye , j. , et al , 2010 , mnras , 402 , 1536 peacock , j.a . ,",
    "smith , r.e .",
    ", 2000 , mnras , 318 , 1144 perez - gonzalez et al , 2008 , apj , 675 , 234 , planck collaboration , ade et al , 2014 , a & a , 571 , 16 rodriguez - puebla , a. , behroozi , p. , primack , j. , klypin , a. , lee , c. , helling , d. , 2016 , http://arxiv.org/abs/1602.04813 , rockstar trees at http://yun.ucsc.edu/sims/bolshoi_planck/trees/index.html santini , p. , et al , 2012 , a&a , 538 , 33 seljak , u. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , 203 smith , r.e . , 2012 , mnras , 426 , 531 speagle , j. s. , steinhardt , c. l. , capak , p. l. , & silverman , j. d. 2014 , apjs , 214 , 15 springel , v. , et al , 2005 , nature , 435 , 629 stark , c. , white , m. , lee , k.g . ,",
    "hennawi , j.f . , 2015 ,",
    "mnras , 453 , 311 straatman , et al , 2016 , submitted .",
    "tacchella , s. , trenti , m. , carollo , m. , 2013 , apj , 768 , l37 tasca , l.a.m . , et al , 2015 , a&a , 581 , 54 tomczak , a.r . ,",
    "et al , 2014 , apj , 783,85 , vale , a. , ostriker , j.p . , 2006 , mrnas , 371 , 1173 wang , l. , li , c. , kauffmann , g. , de lucia , g. , 2007 , mnras , 377 , 1419 wetzel , a.r . ,",
    "white , m. , 2010 , mnras , 403 , 1072 wetzel , a.r . ,",
    "tinker , j.l . , conroy , c. , van den bosch , f.c .",
    ", 2013 , mnras , 432 , 336 white , s.d.m . ,",
    "rees , m.j . , 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341 white m. , 2001 , a&a , 367 , 27 white m. , 2002 , apjs , 143 , 241 white , m. , cohn , j.d . , smit , r. , 2010 , mnras , 408 , ( 2010 ) , 1818 wong , a.w.c . , taylor , j.e . , 2011 , apj , 757 , 102 yang , x. , mo , h.j . , van den bosch , f.c . , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 1057"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> dark matter simulations can serve as a basis for creating galaxy histories via the galaxy - dark matter connection . here , one such model by @xcite is implemented with several variations on three different dark matter simulations . </S>",
    "<S> stellar mass and star formation rates are assigned to all simulation subhalos at all times , using subhalo mass gain to determine stellar mass gain . </S>",
    "<S> the observational properties of the resulting galaxy distributions are compared to each other and observations for a range of redshifts from 0 - 2 . </S>",
    "<S> although many of the galaxy distributions seem reasonable , there are noticeable differences as simulations , subhalo mass gain definitions , or subhalo mass definitions are altered , suggesting that the model should change as these properties are varied . </S>",
    "<S> agreement with observations may improve by including redshift dependence in the added - by - hand random contribution to star formation rate . </S>",
    "<S> there appears to be an excess of faint quiescent galaxies as well ( perhaps due in part to differing definitions of quiescence ) . </S>",
    "<S> the ensemble of galaxy formation histories for these models tend to have more scatter around their average histories ( for a fixed final stellar mass ) than the two more predictive and elaborate semi - analytic models of @xcite , and require more basis fluctuations ( using pca ) to capture 90% of the scatter around their average histories .    </S>",
    "<S> the codes to plot model predictions ( in some cases alongside observational data ) are publicly available to test other mock catalogues at https://github.com/jdcphysics/validation/codes/vsuite . </S>",
    "<S> information on how to use these codes is in the appendix . </S>"
  ]
}