{
  "article_text": [
    "compared to other commodities , fashion articles are tough to characterize : they are extremely varied in function and appearance and lack standardization , and are described by a virtually open - ended set of properties and attributes , including labels such as brand ( `` levi s '' ) and silhouette ( `` jeans '' ) , physical properties like shape ( `` slim cut '' ) , color ( `` blue '' ) , and material ( `` stonewashed cotton denim '' ) , target groups ( `` adult , '' `` male '' ) , price , imagery ( photos , videos ) , and customer and expert sentiments . many of these attributes are subjective or evolve over time ; others are highly variable among customers , such as fit and style .",
    "zalando is europe s leading online fashion platform , operating in 15 countries , with a base of @xmath0 customers and a catalog comprising @xmath1 articles ( skus ) , with @xmath2 skus available for sale online at any given moment .",
    "given the incomprehensibly large catalog and the heterogeneity of the customer base , matching shoppers and articles requires an automated pre - selection process that however has to be personalized to conform to the customers individual styles and preferences : the degree to which items are similar or complement each other is largely in the eye of the beholder . at the same time , proper planning at a complex organization like zalando requires an `` objective '' description of each fashion item  one that is traditionally given by a curated set of labels like the above - mentioned .",
    "still , these `` expert labels '' are often ambiguous , can not consider the variety of opinion found among shoppers , and often do not even match the consensus amongst customers .",
    "we set ourselves the task to find a mathematical representation of fashion items that permits a notion of similarity and distance based on the expert labels , as well as visual and other information , but that is designed to maximize sales by enabling tailored recommendations to individual clients .",
    "our vehicle is a deep feedforward neural network that is trained to forecast the individual purchases of a sizable number @xmath3 of frequent zalando customers , currently using expert labels and catalog images for @xmath4 past and active zalando articles as input . for each sku",
    "we compute the activation of the topmost hidden layer in the network which we call its _ fashion dna _ ( fdna ) .",
    "the idiosyncratic style and taste of our shoppers is then simultaneously encoded as a vector of equal dimension in the weight matrix of the output layer .",
    "inner products between vectors in these two dual spaces yield a likelihood of purchase and also express the similarity of fashion articles .",
    "section  [ kdd : network ] explains the mathematical model and presents the architecture of our network .",
    "collaborative - filtering based recommender systems @xcite suffer from the `` cold - start problem '' @xcite : individual predictions for new customers and articles can not be calculated in the absence of prior purchase data .",
    "training of our network relies on sales records _ and _ content - based information on the article side , while only purchase data is used for customers .",
    "once trained , the model computes fdna vectors based on content article data alone , thus alleviating the `` cold - start problem . ''",
    "our experiments show that the quality of such recommendations is only moderately affected by the lack of sales data .",
    "likewise , it is easy to establish style vectors for unseen customers ( by standard logistic regression ) , and their forecast performance is almost indistinguishable from training set customers .",
    "the generalization performance of our fashion dna model is demonstrated in section  [ kdd : reco ] .    as fashion dna combines item properties and customer sales behavior , distances in the fdna space provide a natural measure of article similarity . in section  [ kdd :",
    "similarity ] , we examine the traits shared by neighboring skus , and use dimensionality reduction to unveil a instructive , surprisingly intricate landscape of the fashion universe .",
    "we now proceed to describe the design of the network that yields the fashion dna .",
    "it ingests images and/or attribute information about articles , and tries to predict their likelihood of purchase for a group of frequent customers . after training , item fdna",
    "is extracted from the internal activation of the network .      for our experiments , we selected a `` standard '' sku set of 1.33 million items that were offered for sale at zalando in the range 20112016 , mostly clothing , shoes , and accessories , but also cosmetics and housewares .",
    "for each of these articles , one jpeg  image of size @xmath5 was available ( some article images had to be resized to fit this format ) .",
    "most of these images depict the article on a neutral white background ; a few were photographed worn by a model .",
    "we furthermore used up to six `` expert labels '' to describe each item .",
    "these tags were selected to represent distinct qualities of the article under consideration : besides the brand and main color , they comprise the commodity group ( encoding silhouette , gender , age , and function ) , pattern , and labels for the retail price and fabrics composition .",
    "price labels were created using @xmath6means clustering @xcite of the logarithm of manufacturer suggested prices ( msrps ) .",
    "for the fabrics composition labels , a linear space spanned by possible combinations of about 40 different fibers ( e.  g. , cotton and wool ) was segmented into 80 clusters .",
    "labels were issued only where applicable ; for instance , fabric clusters are restricted to textile items .",
    "generally , only labels with a minimum number of 50 skus were retained .",
    "the number of different classes per label , and the percentage of articles tagged , are shown in table  [ kdd : network : tags ] .",
    ".article tags used for network training [ cols=\"<,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]      before we discuss model performance in detail , we examine to which extent information gleaned from the training of our models is transferable to fashion items ( e.g. , skus newly added to the catalog ) and customers outside the training set .",
    "table  [ kdd : reco : auc ] tells us that for a given fdna model , the auc score is highest if both customers and articles are taken from the training sets ( @xmath7 ) , diminishes as one of the groups is switched to the validation set ( @xmath8 , @xmath9 ) , and becomes lowest when both customers and articles are taken from the hold - out sets ( @xmath10 ) , as expected .",
    "but the scores conspicuously pair up : for a given sku set ( training or validation ) , there is very little difference in auc score between the training and validation set customers .",
    "this observation holds irrespective of the specific fdna model employed .    picking the most powerful fdna model based on images and attributes , we determined roc curves for the four cases laid out in figure  [ kdd : network : maths : fig1 ] .",
    "adopt the color code defined there , we display the curves in figure  [ kdd : reco : roc : fig5 ] .",
    "indeed , the roc curves for @xmath7 ( blue ) and @xmath9 ( green ) track each other closely , as do the curves for validation set articles @xmath8 ( red ) and @xmath10 ( orange ) .",
    "we conclude that our approach generalizes extremely well to hold - out customers , at least when they shop at a similar rate .    .",
    "]    next , we address another related aspect of generalization performance for our model architecture : how well does recommendation quality in the article training set correlate with the quality for items in the hold - out set for a given customer ?",
    "recommendation theory sometimes posits that most customers fall in well - defined groups that have aligned preferences , except for a few `` black sheep '' with idiosyncratic behavior that can not be forecast well .",
    "however , given the extreme amount of choice , and the sparsity of sales coverage , it can be argued that idiosyncrasy in fashion taste and style is the norm rather than the exception .    to investigate , we compiled recommendations for a large group of individual customers for both article training and validation sets , and compared them to their actual purchases in both sets .",
    "then , we examined the resulting pairs of customer - specific auc scores for correlation .",
    "figure  [ kdd : reco : roc : fig6 ] displays a scatterplot of such scores for the combined attribute - image fdna model , using the hold - out customer set . although regression analysis reveals a weak dependency ( pearson coefficient of correlation @xmath11 ) , the plot is dominated by random statistical fluctuation , likely caused by the small number of sales events for any given customer . there is little evidence for `` black sheep '' with consistently low auc scores , nor are there visible clusters .",
    "while switching from training to validation set customers hardly affects recommendation performance , there is a clear difference between the three fdna models introduced in section  [ kdd : network : architecture ] when the generalization to validation set articles is examined instead ( table  [ kdd : reco : auc ] ) .",
    "although attribute- and image - based fdna perform at nearly equal levels in the training sku set , the image - based model is distinctly inferior for articles in the validation set .",
    "although this observation suggests that mere visual similarity is a worse predictor for customer interest than matching attributes , it might also involuntarily result from the widespread use of article attributes in search filters and recommendation algorithms that prejudice choice when customers browse the online shop",
    ".    as we are particularly interested in the ability of the models to generalize to unseen items and validation set customers , we calculated roc curves from the probability forecasts for the segment @xmath12 ( orange sector in figure  [ kdd : network : maths : fig1 ] ) .",
    "they are shown in figure  [ kdd : reco : roc : fig3 ] .",
    "( orange sector in figure  [ kdd : network : maths : fig1 ] ) .",
    "the attribute - based model ( dashed curve ) outperforms image - based fdna ( dotted curve ) .",
    "combining attributes and images yields a superior fdna model ( solid line ) .",
    "the black diagonal line represents random guess performance .",
    "]    the plot reveals that a ranking based on only six attributes ( dashed curve ) beats recommendations based on the much richer image fdna ( dotted curve ) . as possible causes behind this observation",
    ", we note that items with very different function may look strikingly similar ( e.  g. , earmuffs and headphones ) , and that minor details may alter the association of an article with a customer group ( for instance , men s and women s sport shoes often look much alike ) . as mentioned , users commonly select attributes as filter settings for the zalando online catalog , so the better performance of attribute fdna may also reflect the shopping habits of our customers .",
    "importantly , we point out that integrating attribute and image information boosts recommendation performance considerably , as the roc curve for the combined model fdna ( solid curve ) shows .",
    "this indicates that images and attributes carry complementary information .    for a more practical interpretation of the roc analysis",
    ", we turn to figure  [ kdd : reco : roc : fig4 ] , which provides a magnified view of the roc curves near the origin , i.e. , for small true and false positive rates .",
    "we note that the `` positive '' ( articles purchased ) and `` negatives '' classes in this case are extremely unbalanced ( the average customer only acquires 0.01%  of the article set ) .",
    "hence , to a very good approximation , _ all _ 120k articles in the validation set are negatives , and the rate of false positives shown on the abscissa is essentially equivalent to the ratio of the number of recommended articles to the validation set size .",
    "( for instance , a false positive rate of @xmath13 represents the top-12 recommended articles . ) from the figure , we infer that the top recommendation represents about 0.8%  of validation set purchases in the combined fdna model  for the average validation customer buying 17 items in the validation sku set , this translates to a 13%  `` success rate '' of the recommendation . for top-12 ( top-120 ) recommendation , one captures 3.5%  ( 13% ) of the items bought by shoppers similar to the ones in the customer training set .",
    "( of course , this ex - post - facto analysis can not predict to which extent a customer would have bought the top - rated items , had they been suggested to her as recommendations .",
    "this question properly belongs to the domain of a / b testing . )    . ]      for illustration , we now present the leading recommendations of validation set articles for a sample frequent customer , a member of the training set , and compare results from the three fashion dna models introduced earlier .",
    "( for lack of space , we only discuss a single case here .",
    "our observations hold quite generally , though . )",
    "figure  [ kdd : reco : roc : fig7 ] displays the top-20 recommended fashion items for the attribute - based model ( top row ) , image - based model ( second from top ) , and the combination model , our strongest contender ( third row ) .",
    "the estimated likelihood of purchase decreases from left to right , with the first choice exceeding 10% ; the mean forecast probability of sale for the articles on display hovers around 5% .",
    "for contrast , we also display the items deemed _ least _ likely in the combination model ( fourth row ) .",
    "there , the model estimates a negligible chance of sale ( around @xmath14% ) .",
    "actual consumer purchases are on view in the bottom rows .",
    "note that the items suggested by attribute fdna , due to the lack of visual information in training , appear quite heterogeneous .",
    "the underlying similarity , typically matching brands , remains concealed in the image .",
    "( among the attributes in table  [ kdd : network : tags ] , the brand and commodity group tags claim the lion s share of information , and major brands commonly try to gain market share by covering the whole fashion universe , from shoes to accessories . ) although quite successful for our sample customer ( one item highlighted in green was bought , and the top100 recommendations capture four sales ) , the selection does not reflect her predilection with red and pink hues . unsurprisingly , image - based fdna yields a visually more uniform result , often aggregating items with a very similar look , here striped and pink shirts .",
    "although pleasing to the eye , the approach is less successful .",
    "( none of the items shown was acquired , and there was a single `` hit '' in the top 100 suggestions . ) the combination model integrates the hidden features from the attribute model , and the visual trends ( note that recommended skus from both models are taken over ) , and offers a compact , yet more varied selection . in line with the general observation ,",
    "it is also the most performant model in our case study , with one item shown bought , and five within the top 100 selection .",
    "we finally remark that the least favorable items ( bottom row ) are by themselves a coherent group ( boys clothes ) that summarizes qualities this customer is _ not _ interested in : kids and men s apparel , plaid patterns .",
    "this suggests that the models negative recommendations may be actionable as well .",
    "as laid out in section  [ kdd : network ] , a central tenet of our approach is the assignment of articles @xmath15 to vectors @xmath16 in a fashion dna space .",
    "any metric in this space naturally defines a distance measure @xmath17 between pairs of fashion items .",
    "cosine similarity is a simple choice that works well in practice : @xmath18 every fdna model gives rise to its own geometrical structure that emphasizes different aspects of similarity .",
    "we start out exploring local neighborhoods in the fdna spaces . picking a sample article ( here , a maternity dress and a bow tie ) ,",
    "we determine their angular distances ( [ kdd : similarity : cosine ] ) to the standard skus , and select the nearest neighbors according to the three fdna models .. they are displayed in figure  [ kdd : similarity : nn : fig1 ] .        for both skus ,",
    "attribute - based fdna yields a heterogeneous mixture of articles that hides the underlying abstract similarity : the nearest neighbors to the dress all share the same brand , and in the case of the bow tie , men s accessories offered by various luxury brands are found .",
    "for the image - based fdna , visual similarity is paramount ; the search identifies many dresses aligned in color and style , photographed in a similar fashion .",
    "the same analysis for the bow tie reveals the risks underlying the visual strategy : here , the algorithm picks completely unrelated objects that superficially look similar , like bras and a dog pendant . in either case ,",
    "the most sensible results are returned by the combined attribute  image approach . for the dress ,",
    "the nearby items are generally maternity attire that matches the original brand ( note that the mismatched objects in the attribute - based selection are now filtered out ) . in the case of the bow tie ,",
    "regular ties are identified as nearest neighbors : the algorithm has learned that ties and bow ties share the same role in fashion .",
    "we also point out that the combined fdna has included a baby romper ( of the same brand ) in the neighborhood of the maternity dress  a clear sign that information propagates backward from the customer ",
    "item sales matrix into the fdna model .",
    "such conclusions are also inescapable when the global distribution of items in the fdna space is studied .",
    "while the number of fashion items offered by zalando is huge from a human perspective , they occupy the 256dimensional fdna space only sparsely . in order to visualize the arrangement of skus on a larger scale , we resort to dimensionality reduction techniques , and find that t ",
    "sne ( stochastic neighborhood embedding ) is a suitable tool @xcite to reveal the structure hidden in the data .",
    "the resulting maps are rather fascinating descriptions of a fashion landscape that combines hierarchical order at several levels with smooth transitions .",
    "figure  [ kdd : similarity : tsne : fig1 ] displays such a map , generated from 4,096 randomly drawn articles from the catalog ( subject to the weak restriction that the articles be sold at least 10 times to our 100,000 most frequent customers ) . as underlying model",
    ", we used the combined attribute ",
    "image fdna .",
    "a glance at the map already shows the presence of orderly clusters , but much interesting detail is revealed only when studying the arrangement in close - up view .",
    "( a high - resolution image of the t - sne map is posted online . ) in figure  [ kdd : similarity : tsne : fig2 ] , we provide a guide to some `` landmarks '' we found examining the image .        on the largest scale , the map is divided into three `` continents '' : on the upper right , men s fashion items are assembled ( * a * ) .",
    "the structure to the lower right contains kids apparel and shoes , neatly separated into boys ( * b * ) and girls fashion ( * c * ) , connected by a narrow isthmus of baby ( * d * ) and maternity items ( * e * ) . the huge remainder of the map ( * f * ) is devoted to womens fashion gear , with a core body of assorted clothing ( upper left ) , surrounded by satellites of casual and fashion shoes ( * g * , lower left ) , accessories ( * h * ) , lingerie , hosiery , and swimwear ( * i * ) , and sport shoes and gear ( * j * ) .",
    "each of the regions is further subdivided ( e.  g. , accessories ( * h * ) are separated into scarves ( red ) , belts ( green ) , hats ( brown ) , bags ( blue ) , jewelry ( purple ) , and sunglasses ( cyan ) ) .",
    "it is remarkable that the separation at the top level is essentially complete , as there is for instance no mixing between male and female items .",
    "instead , subcategories are replicated in each section ( such as a male sports cluster ( * k * ) that , naturally enough , faces the much larger female counterpart ( * j * ) ) .",
    "but there is also gradual progression in some structures : for instance , heel heights increase as one travels clockwise along the outer rim of the shoe cluster ( with high heels ( * l * ) being opposite dresses ( * m * ) on the apparel side ) .",
    "another example is kids clothing , where size and age group increases as one travels away from the maternity `` center '' ( * e * ) .",
    "it is notable that at the lower levels of organization , clustering mostly occurs by shape or pattern , and only rarely by function ( e.  g. , there is a `` soccer cluster '' ( * n * ) in the boys section ) , or brand loyalty , the _ desigual _ `` island '' ( * o * ) at the very bottom being the only conspicuous example .",
    "in this paper , we introduced the concept of fashion dna , a mapping of fashion articles to vectors using deep neural networks that is optimized to forecast purchases across a large group of customers .",
    "being based on item properties , our approach is able to circumvent the cold start problem and provide article recommendations even in the absence of prior purchase records .",
    "likewise , the model is flexible enough to generate sales probability predictions of comparable quality for validation customers .",
    "we demonstrated that an fdna model based on article attributes and images generalizes well and suggests relevant items to shoppers .",
    "the combination of article and sales information imprints a wealth of structure onto the item distribution in fdna space .",
    "we plan to enrich the model with additional types of fashion - related data , such as ratings , reviews , sentiment , and social media , which will require extensions of the deep network handling the information , e.  g.  natural language processing capability . with an increasing number of information channels , for many items only partial data will be available . to render the network resilient to missing information , we will further experiment with drop - out layers in our architectures .",
    "an important aspect currently absent in our model is the temporal order of sales events .",
    "customer interest and item relevance evolve over time , whether by season , by fashion trends , or by personal circumstances .",
    "capturing and forecasting such variations is a difficult task , but also a valuable business proposition that may be tackled by introducing long short - term memory ( lstm ) elements into our network .",
    "we would like to thank urs bergmann for valuable comments on this paper .",
    "r.  bell , y.  koren , and c.  volinsky . modeling relationships at multiple scales to improve accuracy of large recommender systems . in _ proceedings of the 13th acm sigkdd international conference on knowledge discovery and data mining _ , kdd 07 , pages 95104 , new york , ny , usa , 2007 .",
    "p.  flach , j.  hernndez - orallo , and c.  ferri . a coherent interpretation of auc as a measure of aggregated classification performance . in _ proceedings of the 28@xmath19 international conference on machine learning ( icml11 )",
    "_ , pages 657664 , 2011 .",
    "huang , x.  he , j.  gao , l.  deng , a.  acero , and l.  heck .",
    "learning deep structured semantic models for web search using clickthrough data . in _ proceedings of the 22nd",
    "acm international conference on information and knowledge management ( cikm ) _ , pages 23332338 , 2013 .",
    "a.  i. schein , a.  popescul , l.  h. ungar , and d.  m. pennock .",
    "methods and metrics for cold - start recommendations . in _ proceedings of the 25th annual international acm sigir conference on research and development in information retrieval _ , pages 253260 , 2002 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a method to determine _ fashion dna _ , coordinate vectors locating fashion items in an abstract space . </S>",
    "<S> our approach is based on a deep neural network architecture that ingests curated article information such as tags and images , and is trained to predict sales for a large set of frequent customers . in the process , a dual space of customer style preferences naturally arises . </S>",
    "<S> interpretation of the metric of these spaces is straightforward : the product of fashion dna and customer style vectors yields the forecast purchase likelihood for the customer  item pair , while the angle between fashion dna vectors is a measure of item similarity . </S>",
    "<S> importantly , our models are able to generate unbiased purchase probabilities for fashion items based solely on article information , even in absence of sales data , thus circumventing the `` cold  start problem '' of collaborative recommendation approaches . </S>",
    "<S> likewise , it generalizes easily and reliably to customers outside the training set . </S>",
    "<S> we experiment with fashion dna models based on visual and/or tag item data , evaluate their recommendation power , and discuss the resulting article similarities . </S>"
  ]
}