{
  "article_text": [
    "despite successes of general relativity ( gr )  @xcite , it appears to be incomplete in both high and low energy limits .",
    "first , gr is not perturbatively renormalizable and , consequently , loses its predictive power at distances of the order of the planckian size , @xmath1 . to retain predictivity at those and smaller scales",
    ", one should replace gr by some ultraviolet complete theory _ a la _ superstrings .",
    "the infrared problem stems from the existence of dark energy ,",
    "we yet do not know the physics behind the small @xmath2-constant .",
    "another low energy phenomenon , which is less commonly viewed as challenge for gr , is dark matter ( dm ) .",
    "while it could be relatively simply explained in some extensions of the standard model , only gravitational manifestations of dm have been identified so far .",
    "therefore , it may be well a product of gravity modification",
    ". we will entertain this possibility in the present paper",
    ".    we will be interested in the model of gravity described by the following action  @xcite , @xmath3 \\ ; , \\ ] ] ( hereafter , we assume the mostly negative signature of the metric ) .",
    "the first term on the r.h.s . here describes the einstein ",
    "hilbert action ; @xmath4 is the gravitational constant , and @xmath5 is the planck mass . the other two stand for what one calls imperfect dark matter ( idm ) . in the limit of vanishing dimensionful constant @xmath6",
    "was promoted to a function of the field @xmath7 .",
    "this was proved crucial for generating the required amount of idm in the early universe ( the issue analogous to getting the correct relic abundance of dm in the cdm framework ) . on the other hand ,",
    "the slight dependence on the field @xmath7 is completely irrelevant for the discussion of the present paper , where we focus on the solar system scales . ]",
    ", idm reduces to a pressureless perfect fluid , with the fields @xmath8 and @xmath7 playing the role of its energy density and velocity potential , respectively . switching on the higher derivative term",
    "renders the fluid slightly imperfect  @xcite ( hence , the name ) and equips it with a non - zero sound speed @xmath9  @xcite .    in the synchronous gauge ,",
    "a homogeneous solution for the field @xmath7 takes a simple form , @xmath10 so , it serves as the time parametrization .",
    "note an unconventional dimensionality @xmath11 of the scalar @xmath7 .",
    "existence of the preferred frame , i.e. , the one , where the background value of the field @xmath12 is given by eq .",
    ", implies dynamical lorentz violation in the model  . in this regard ,",
    "it is akin to the einstein  aether theory  @xcite .",
    "the latter , however , deals with a unit 4-vector field @xmath13 rather than with the 4-gradient of a scalar .",
    "this distinction produces drastically different dynamics in the two models .",
    "particularities of the cosmological evolution in the scenario   have been considered in refs .",
    "the main effect stems from non - zero sound speed  @xcite .",
    "namely , the formation of objects with the size smaller than the sound speed horizon is suppressed compared to the predictions of cold dm ( cdm ) .",
    "consequently , one risks to strongly affect the bottom - up picture of the structure formation for sufficiently large values of the parameter @xmath6 . in ref .",
    "@xcite , this observation was used to set the bound , @xmath14 for much smaller values of the parameter @xmath6 , idm is indistinguishable from cdm at the cosmological level . on the other hand , given values saturating the bound in eq .  , the behavior of idm shares some similarities with the warm dm .",
    "let us briefly discuss the quantum features of the model  .",
    "compared to gr , it propagates three degrees of freedom : the standard ones associated with two polarizations of the helicity-2 graviton , and the scalar potential @xmath15 , which is now a dynamical field  @xcite . the extra degree of freedom @xmath15 exhibits gradient / ghost instabilities for negative / positive values of the parameter @xmath6 .",
    "this , however , does not invalidate the model immediately .",
    "indeed , those pathologies are not particularly dangerous provided that there is a sufficiently low lorentz - violating cutoff on the spatial momenta of the modes of the field @xmath15  @xcite . that cutoff is associated with the scale of yet unknown uv completion of the model or the strong coupling scale .    in the version with gradient instabilities ( @xmath16 ) ,",
    "however , this cutoff turns out to be extremely low  @xcite , @xmath17 .",
    "the latter contradicts the tests of gravity extending from the sub - mm distances to the solar system scales . on the other hand ,",
    "the ghost unstable branch of the model ( @xmath18 ) allows for the cutoff scale @xmath2 as large as @xmath19 tev . assuming that the strong coupling and uv scales are of the same order , this bound implies the constraint on the parameter @xmath6  @xcite , @xmath20 for larger values of the constant @xmath6 ,",
    "the vacuum decay with photons and ghosts in the final state is too fast , what leads to the conflict with measured fluxes of the gamma- and x - ray emission  @xcite .",
    "one interesting way of uv completing the action   is suggested in the context of the projectable horava ",
    "lifshitz model  @xcite .",
    "the latter postulates a non - uniform transformation of time and spatial coordinates under the scaling .",
    "this has a dramatic effect on the ultraviolet behaviour of gravitons resulting into the strong distortion of their dispersion relation , @xmath21 .",
    "consequently , there are less divergences in the graviton loop integrals , what eventually leads to the ( power counting ) renormalizability of gravity  @xcite .",
    "while the horava  lifshitz model is manifestly non - relativistic , it allows for the covariant description by introducing the st@xmath22ckelberg field @xmath7 dubbed khronon . then",
    ", its infrared limit exactly takes the form  @xcite .",
    "it is thus not a surprise that dm has been identified in this context  @xcite .",
    "in particular , the term with the lagrange multiplier ensures the projectablility condition , which eliminates the pathological mode otherwise present at low momenta  @xcite .",
    "the parameter @xmath6 is generically non - zero may be inconvenient for those familiar with horava  lifshitz gravity .",
    "there one deals with the parameter @xmath23 , which appears in front of the term @xmath24 ( the trace of the extrinsic curvature tensor squared ) in the adm formulation of the model .",
    "the two are related to each other by @xmath25 .",
    "] , and is supposed to follow the renormalization group flow towards the gr point @xmath26 .",
    "embedding the model   into the horava  lifshitz gravity is not without problems , though .",
    "the reason is that uv operators modifying the dispersion relation of the gravitons are not capable of curing ghost instabilities .",
    "hence , the only way to stabilize the catastrophic vacuum decay is to assume that the model enters a putative strong coupling phase .",
    "this severely obstructs the main objective of the horava s proposal  perturbative renormalization of gravity .",
    "recently , the action   has been rediscovered in a completely different framework of the mimetic matter  @xcite .",
    "there one deals with a non - invertible conformal transformation of the metric  @xcite , @xmath27 where @xmath28 and @xmath29 are the arbitrary functions of the scalar @xmath7 and @xmath30 . performing this transformation on the standard einstein ",
    "hilbert action , one does not reproduce gr , but rather gr supplemented by a perfect pressureless fluid dubbed mimetic dm .",
    "equivalently , the latter can be introduced by making use of the lagrange multiplier as in eq .  ,",
    "i.e. , without directly referring to the disformally transformed metric  @xcite",
    ". the higher derivative term is absent in the original formulation of the mimetic matter scenario .",
    "nevertheless , that extension does not affect the main idea underlying the scenario , and even appears to be the only viable option for a number of phenomenological issues  @xcite with some potential @xmath31 . in this way , one manages to mimic fairly arbitrary cosmological evolution . in refs .",
    "@xcite , the mimetic matter scenario has been extended by means of the horndeski higher derivative terms . ] .    in the present paper",
    ", we do not assume any particular gravitational framework behind the model  .",
    "neither , we are interested in its cosmological or microscopic manifestations .",
    "our main focus here is the intermediate range of scales : solar system .",
    "surprisingly , this yields limits , which are many orders of magnitude stronger than those obtained from the structure formation considerations .",
    "moreover , our discussion does not assume that idm gives the dominant contribution to the invisible matter in the universe ( namely , idm may constitute only its tiny fraction ) .",
    "the behavior of idm in the solar system shares some features ( but not all ) with cdm .",
    "let us briefly summarize the main effect .",
    "the sun moves relative to the cosmic microwave background and milky way rest frames with the speed @xmath32 .",
    "naturally , the preferred frame is associated with one of those .",
    "an observer in the solar system sees a flow of idm .",
    "affected by the gravitational potential of the sun , the flow focuses downstream from the sun forming a caustic .",
    "this part of the story parallels to that of cdm .    in the latter case , however , gravitational focusing is a rather moderate effect introducing a few percent correction to the annual modulation of the flux of dm particles passing through the earth  @xcite .",
    "the things are different in the idm scenario .",
    "the reason is the higher derivative structure of its action  .",
    "the term @xmath33 serves as a powerful source of the idm energy density @xmath8 .",
    "the latter backreacts on the space - time geometry causing distortion of the metric .",
    "this is the main effect identified in the present paper . as in the case of cdm",
    ", it is particularly prominent in the direction opposite to the velocity of the sun @xmath34 , where idm is mainly accumulated .",
    "borrowing terminology of ref .",
    "@xcite , astrophysical objects moving relative to the preferred frame   leave star tracks behind them .",
    "remarkably , in the idm scenario , deviations from the gr metric emerge only in the second order in the newtonian potential .",
    "this is in a sharp contrast to the predictions of other models , which deal with preferred frame effects  @xcite . in our case ,",
    "the latter manifest via the spatial dependence of coefficients measuring quadratic corrections to the gr metric .",
    "such a correction does not exactly follow the standard parametrized post - newtonian ( ppn ) approach , where analogous coefficients are assumed to be constant . in particular , the parameter @xmath35 akin to the ppn one @xmath0 , deviates from unity by @xmath36 , where @xmath37 is the angle between the line of sight of the observer on the sun and the direction @xmath38 . ignoring @xmath37-dependence here",
    ", we convert bounds on @xmath0 following from the studies of the mercury perihelion precession into the limit on the model constant @xmath6 .",
    "the resulting constraint is quite stringent : @xmath39 , which is only two orders of magnitude weaker than the limit   inferred from the microscopic physics considerations .",
    "notably , this is a conservative constraint , since neglecting the @xmath37-dependence we underestimate the actual effect due to gravitational focusing .",
    "the remainder of the paper is as follows . in section  2 , we deduce equations of motion following from the action  . we discuss the main assumptions and approximations used to study the dynamics of idm in section  3 . for the sake of convenience , there we also outline the main formulae describing the idm profile in the solar system , as well as the induced metric corrections .",
    "derivation of those results is explained in sections  4 and  5 , where we restrict to the linear and quadratic order analysis in the newtonian potential , respectively . in section  4",
    ", we also identify the narrow region of space , where the perturbative description of idm breaks down .",
    "we assess metric perturbations in this region in section  6 .",
    "the reader interested in the final results , may skip sections 4 - 6 and go directly to section 7 , where we contrast our predictions for metric perturbations to the observational bounds , and derive the constraint on the model constant @xmath6 .",
    "let us write down equations of motion following from the action  .",
    "variation with respect to the lagrange multiplier @xmath8 yields @xmath40 applying the covariant derivative to both parts of the constraint , one reproduces the geodesics equation followed by test particles in the gravitational field  @xcite , @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the 4-velocity . in the following ,",
    "we will repeatedly make use of this analogy with the case of dust particles .    varying the action   with respect to the field @xmath7 , we obtain @xmath43 for the choice @xmath44 , eq .",
    "( [ conservation ] ) takes the form of the energy density conservation for a pressureless perfect fluid . in this limit , there is no source of dm : if its density is zero everywhere at some moment , it remains so at later times .",
    "the degeneracy with the case of cdm gets broken upon switching on a non - zero @xmath6 .",
    "then , any non - trivial configuration of the field @xmath7 serves as the source of dm .",
    "this difference between idm and cdm will be important for our further discussions .    finally , there are einstein equations , which we write in the form , @xmath45 where @xmath46 here @xmath47 and @xmath48 are the stress - energy tensors corresponding to the standard matter and idm .",
    "the latter is given by  @xcite @xmath49 in the limit @xmath50 , this reduces to the stress - energy tensor of a pressureless perfect fluid . in what follows",
    ", we will refer to the field @xmath8 as the energy density of idm even for non - zero values of the parameter @xmath6 .",
    "the discrepancy between the physical and so defined energy density is small and irrelevant for our study .",
    "this can be verified rigorously at each step of calculations .",
    "our goal in the present paper is to study the imprint of idm on the metric created by the standard matter  the sun . for this purpose",
    ", we employ the test field approximation .",
    "namely , we assume that the sun is the main source of the space - time curvature , while idm produces small corrections on the background metric .",
    "this assumption will be checked by the structure of the final result .",
    "it is convenient to perform calculations in the rest frame of the source . in",
    "that coordinate system , there is a flow of idm moving towards the sun with the velocity @xmath51 .",
    "performing the lorentz transformation on the background profile   of the field @xmath7 , we get @xmath52 one may naively expect the speed @xmath53 to play a role of a small expansion parameter , when evaluating metric corrections .",
    "this is indeed the case of the einstein  aether or khronometric theories  @xcite .",
    "the situation is different in the idm scenario : at least sufficiently far from the sun , the velocity enters metric corrections as @xmath54 , where @xmath55 is some positive number .",
    "this peculiar dependence on the quantity @xmath56 has a clear physical explanation .",
    "if idm passes fast near the sun , the latter does not have enough time to affect the flow appreciably .",
    "hence , the effects of gravitational focusing milden in that case .",
    "the perturbative treatment of the metric is still possible in terms of the newtonian potential , provided that the following inequality is obeyed , @xmath57 outside the source , where @xmath58 is the sun s mass . in other words ,",
    "the actual expansion parameter is @xmath59 , and we anticipate linear and quadratic metric corrections to be of the order @xmath60 and @xmath61 , respectively .",
    "this fact places limitations on the analysis of the present paper : it is not applied for sufficiently strong gravitational fields / small speeds . on the other hand , for the choice @xmath62 the inequality   represents a reasonable approximation within the solar system .",
    "so , one has @xmath63 at the mercury distance , where @xmath64 denotes its average orbital speed . for more remote planets",
    "such a ratio decreases gradually , increasing the accuracy of the inequality  .",
    "the only region of space , where eq .",
    "is not valid , is very close to the surface of the sun , see fig .",
    "being primarily interested in the planetary dynamics , we will ignore this subtlety in the bulk of the paper .",
    "the issue , however , comes into play , when calculating metric corrections induced by idm . to fill in the gap , in appendix  a",
    "we provide a simplified analysis of the relevant fields in this region .    before going into the details of the analysis ,",
    "let us briefly comment on the origin of the estimate  .",
    "it is natural to associate the preferred frame with the rest frame either of the cosmic microwave background or the milky way halo . in the former case ,",
    "the speed is inferred from the observed dipole anisotropy  @xcite and is given by @xmath65 . in the latter case ,",
    "we see that both match the estimate   very well .",
    "still the two choices are not degenerate , as they imply different inclinations of the velocity @xmath34 relative to the solar system plane .",
    "this distinction will be relevant , when contrasting our theoretical predictions to the observational data .    when defining metric corrections , our strategy will be as follows .",
    "first , we will solve the constraint equation   perturbatively expanding the field @xmath7 in the powers of the newtonian potential .",
    "hereafter , we assume a _ stationary _ flow of idm and , henceforth , restrict to a static configuration of the velocity potential @xmath7 . in this approximation ,",
    "the field @xmath7 is uniquely defined by the boundary condition @xmath67 we choose the @xmath68-axis of the reference frame to be aligned with the velocity @xmath69 , and set its origin at the location of the sun , as shown in fig .",
    "downstream from the sun @xmath70 , the perturbative series of interest is schematically given by @xmath71 ( see eqs .   and   for the exact expressions ) where @xmath72 .",
    "here @xmath73 and @xmath74 are order one coefficients , and @xmath75 is an irrelevant dimensionful constant .",
    "now , we see explicitly the relevance of the condition  had it not been obeyed , the series   would not converge .",
    "still , the terms entering the series   formally blow up in the limit @xmath76 , what eventually invalidates the perturbative treatment of the velocity potential @xmath7 , see fig .",
    "fortunately , there is a way to find a solution for the field @xmath7 in this narrow region . as we will see in section  6 , the role of non - perturbative effects is to smoothen the singularities present in eq .",
    ", so that the actual field @xmath7 is finite everywhere . on the other hand",
    ", there is no such an issue for negative @xmath68 ( the upstream region ) . in that case , the perturbative series analogous to eq .   remains well - defined for arbitrarily small values of @xmath77 .",
    "as for the next step , we calculate the energy density @xmath8 .",
    "the latter is mainly fixed by the configuration of the field @xmath7 , while the metric perturbations by themselves give a negligible contribution at this level .",
    "just like the velocity potential @xmath7 , the density field @xmath8 can be treated perturbatively almost in the whole region of space .",
    "cutting the series at the quadratic term , one has for @xmath78 @xmath79 ( see eqs .   and   for the exact expressions ) .",
    "we neglected here the background value of the field @xmath8 .",
    "this can be easily justified .",
    "indeed , the amount of idm generated by the gravitational field of the sun turns out to be much larger than its expectation value in the surrounding halo .",
    "furthermore , idm is not produced at the linear level .",
    "we will show this explicitly in section  4 .",
    "once again , the sharp @xmath77-dependence of the energy density in the limit @xmath80 is an artefact of the perturbative approach , which breaks down near the @xmath68-axis . at the same time , the non - perturbative effects convert the strong growth of the field @xmath81 as in eq .   into a milder one @xmath82 .",
    "see section  6 for details .",
    "the shaded region corresponds to the part of the space , where the perturbative calculation of the idm profile and the induced metric corrections breaks down .",
    "this covers not only the region downstream from the sun , but also some small region near its surface . ]",
    "knowing the distribution of the fields @xmath8 and @xmath7 , we solve the einstein equations and obtain metric perturbations defined as @xmath83 there is a subtlety at this point . while the fields @xmath8 and @xmath7 can be calculated unambiguously in the perturbative region , to find the metric perturbations one has to know the idm profile everywhere in space , including non - perturbative region . to tackle this issue",
    ", we extrapolate results of the perturbative analysis for the fields @xmath8 and @xmath7 from the region , where this calculation can be trusted , to the whole space .",
    "we also approximate the sun by a pressureless perfect fluid and set to zero relative motion of its constituents .",
    "it is then straightforward to evaluate the metric . to the quadratic order",
    ", the correction to its @xmath84-component reads @xmath85 ( see eq .   for the exact expression ) where @xmath37 is the angle between the line of sight of the observer sitting on the sun and the direction @xmath34 .",
    "the absence of linear order corrections here reflects the fact that the perturbative expansion   for the lagrange multiplier field @xmath8 starts from the quadratic term .",
    "the same conclusion holds for the @xmath86- and @xmath87-metric components . strictly speaking , metric perturbations calculated in this way ,",
    "at best may serve as the estimate for the true ones .",
    "therefore , we should critically assess the discrepancy caused by the non - perturbative effects .",
    "this is done in section  6 , where we discuss the idm profile downstream from the sun . in appendix",
    "a , we estimate non - perturbative effects due to the breakdown of the inequality  , which occurs near its surface . in both cases",
    "the discrepancy is not degenerate with the result   by the magnitude or by the spatial dependence . hence , we can separate the effects encoded in eq .   from those following from the non - perturbative distribution of the idm profile .    with",
    "this said , we contrast the resulting metric correction   to the existing experimental bounds on the deviations from gr manifested as the constraints on the ppn parameters .",
    "there is subtlety , however .",
    "one of the prescriptions underlying the ppn approach is the smooth distribution of the fields , which source the space - time curvature  @xcite .",
    "this is why it can not be applied directly to the model under study .",
    "first , the fields @xmath7 and @xmath8 vary fast in the narrow region downstream from the sun , what eventually leads to the breakdown of the perturbative approach . even away from this part of space ,",
    "the @xmath37-dependence of the metric correction   does not allow for the direct comparison with its ppn counterpart governed by the _ constant _",
    "parameter @xmath0 .",
    "it is , however , still possible to impose a conservative limit on the model constant @xmath6 .",
    "indeed , the metric correction   has a non - vanishing minimal value with respect to the angle @xmath37 .",
    "note that for a fixed angle @xmath37 , eq .   exactly takes the form as in the ppn formalism .",
    "then , the model can be constrained using the existing bounds on the parameter @xmath0 .",
    "see section  7 for more details .",
    "our last , but not the least important , assumption concerns the behavior of idm in the deeply non - linear regime , where a caustic is supposed to be formed .",
    "this issue is also closely related with one of our basic approximations  the stationarity of idm flow . while the aforementioned non - perturbative effects substantially smoothen the idm profile downstream from the sun , singularities are not completely avoided and the metric correction @xmath88 grow as @xmath82 and @xmath89 in the non - perturbative regime , respectively .",
    "see the discussion after eq .   and in section  6 .",
    "the reason for this is the presence of the constraint  , which effectively describes the potential flow of dust particles .",
    "note that the solution for the field @xmath7 is defined by eq .",
    ", while the higher derivative term in the action   is irrelevant at this level . therefore , the analogy with the cdm case indeed works .",
    "it is well - known that particles following the geodesics equation   eventually cross at what is called caustic , where the physical quantities , i.e. , the energy density and the divergence of the velocity , blow up . in the cdm framework , however , the appearance of caustics merely hints the breakdown of a single flow approach for a collection of particles .",
    "since then , one should switch to the multi - flow description . on the contrary",
    ", idm is fundamentally described by a single flow , parametrized in terms of the unique field @xmath7 .",
    "therefore , an appearance of a caustic may imply a fundamental problem of the theory . on the other hand , formation of caustics",
    "is generic in all scalar - tensor theories , even in models which do not exhibit a dust - like behavior  @xcite .",
    "mechanisms for avoiding the caustic singularity in the model at hand have been discussed in refs .",
    "so , ref .",
    "@xcite suggests that the test field approximation is exceeded at some point , and the field @xmath8 becomes the main source of gravity .",
    "it is then crucial that the energy density @xmath8 may take negative values , so that the gravitational force becomes repulsive . in this situation ,",
    "there is the chance to avoid the caustic singularity . alternatively ,",
    "anti - gravity is produced for a particular choice of uv operators completing the model  , as it has been argued in ref .",
    "@xcite in the horava  lifshitz framework .",
    "we assume in what follows that these mechanisms of smoothening the singularity are compatible with the stationarity of the idm flow , at least at the scales and time intervals relevant for the discussion of the present paper .",
    "in the bulk of the paper , we will evaluate the field @xmath90 in the straightforward manner  by resolving the constraint  .",
    "alternatively , one observes that eq",
    ".   leads to the geodesics equation   followed by test particles in the gravitational field .",
    "thus , not resorting to eq .  , we could equivalently consider a parallel flow of dust particles falling onto the sun with the velocity @xmath34 .",
    "the velocity distribution , which characterizes the flow , should match the one obtained directly from eq .  .",
    "this will serve as the cross - check of our computations .",
    "we relegate the further details to appendix  b.    we use the newtonian gauge to fix the metric potentials induced by the standard matter .",
    "then , outside of the sun , the metric takes the form @xmath91 in the stationary flow approximation , the constraint   linearized reads @xmath92 recall that we work in the rest frame of the sun , where the background value of the field @xmath7 is given by eq .  .",
    "the general solution of eq .   is given by @xmath93 where @xmath94 is some function of integration .",
    "we rotated the reference frame in a way that its @xmath68-axis is aligned with the velocity @xmath34 , and the origin is placed at the location of the sun , as shown in fig .",
    "the function @xmath94 is uniquely defined from the boundary condition chosen by the analogy with the particle case , @xmath95 which reflects eq .  .",
    "the first order solution for the field @xmath96 reads @xmath97\\ ; , \\ ] ] where @xmath75 is an irrelevant dimensionful constant .",
    "here we made use of an identity @xmath98 $ ] .",
    "this solution exhibits a regular behavior in the upstream region , @xmath99 as it should be .",
    "a different story occurs for @xmath78 , where the solution grows infinitely in the limit @xmath80 eventually exceeding the regime of the applicability of the linear approximation ( see the discussion below ) , @xmath100 that configuration of the field @xmath96 has a clear physical meaning : it reflects the gravitational focusing experienced by idm passing in the vicinity of the sun . in the first order",
    ", however , this amplification of the field @xmath96 produces essentially no effect on the metric perturbations , as we will see below .    when deriving eq .  , we implied a point source approximation for the standard matter .",
    "it is straightforward to generalize it to the realistic case of a finite size source .",
    "the true solution coincides with the one of eq .",
    "apart from the cylindric region of the size @xmath101 along the direction @xmath34 , where @xmath102 is the radius of the sun .",
    "this is , however , a minor issue .",
    "that is , the point source approximation is applied wherever the perturbative description of the field @xmath96 can be trusted .",
    "the inequality  one of the prerequisite for the perturbative expansion  breaks down near the surface of the sun .",
    "furthermore , the linear approximation holds , only if the following conditions are obeyed , @xmath103 .",
    "these translate into the inequality @xmath104 several remarks are in order here .",
    "first , it is worth pointing out that the restriction   concerns only the downstream region ( @xmath78 ) , while for @xmath105 the linear approximation is retained for arbitrary @xmath77 .",
    "second , for very small ratios @xmath106 not only the linear analysis , but the perturbative description of the field @xmath96 is questionable .",
    "we further clarify this point in section  6 .",
    "in particular , at @xmath107 , the higher order corrections to the field @xmath96 all become of the same order , @xmath108 . instead , for larger ratios @xmath106",
    "they are arranged in a well - defined perturbative series over the powers of the potential @xmath109 .",
    "this comment is not trivial , since only the first order quantity @xmath110 was used to derive the condition  .",
    "therefore , one should check rigorously , if eq .",
    "is robust against including the higher order corrections into the analysis . for a while ,",
    "we take this statement for granted , and give an explicit proof in section  6 .",
    "now , let us switch to the calculation of the lagrange multiplier field @xmath8 .",
    "we assume that it vanishes at the background level , i.e. , @xmath111 , what is compatible with the configuration   of the field @xmath7 .",
    "in the linear order , the relevant part of the source term for the field @xmath8 ( the r.h.s . of eq .",
    ") can be written as follows , @xmath112 the generic expression for the quantity @xmath113 in the static field approximation is given by @xmath114 keeping only linear terms here , we obtain @xmath115 where @xmath116 is the laplacian understood with respect to the euclidian metric .",
    "the shortcut way of calculating the quantity @xmath117 is to apply the laplace operator to both parts of eq .   and",
    "make use of the boundary condition  .",
    "the result is trivially zero wherever the perturbative analysis can be trusted , i.e. , the inequalities   and   are satisfied , @xmath118 hence , there is no source of idm energy density @xmath8 to the linear order , namely , @xmath119 indeed , in the stationary flow approximation , the field @xmath8 is defined from the following equation , @xmath120 we assume vanishing of the field @xmath8 at @xmath121 as for the boundary condition . in other words , we neglect the fact that the solar system is surrounded by the dm halo fully or partially made of idm .",
    "this uniquely fixes the solution   for the energy density @xmath122 .",
    "as it follows , the stress - energy tensor of idm   vanishes to the linear order .",
    "hence , the metric   does not receive any corrections at this level .",
    "this result , as we mentioned before , was obtained upon extrapolating the expressions   and   to the whole space .",
    "generically , metric perturbations calculated in that way are defined modulo the solution @xmath123 , which satisfies the homogeneous einstein equations @xmath124 in the perturbative region  . the contribution @xmath123 is sourced by the idm distribution in the narrow boundary region @xmath125 ( hence the subscript bound )",
    ". we estimate it in section  6 , as soon as the full idm profile becomes available .",
    "our last comment is in order here .",
    "one could be interested in the situation , when the linear approximation holds essentially in the whole space .",
    "this is a realistic situation for a sufficiently light object , like the earth .",
    "we relegate details of calculations to appendix  c. here let us quote the main result : modulo a gauge transformation , metric corrections are still zero in that case .",
    "though this conclusion is not directly applied to the case of the sun , the indication is clear : one should not expect any substantial deviations from gr to the linear order .",
    "in the previous section , we observed that gravitational focusing of idm is irrelevant to the first order .",
    "namely , it does not lead to the production of the field @xmath8 .",
    "a different story occurs in the second perturbation order , the main subject of the present section . to simplify calculations ,",
    "hereafter we keep only the terms with the largest power of the quantity @xmath126 .    in this approximation ,",
    "the equation defining the quadratic correction to the field @xmath7 is given by @xmath127 where we again assumed the stationarity of idm flow .",
    "here we omitted the terms arising from the quadratic order metric expansion , @xmath128 , as well as the quantities @xmath129 .",
    "these are suppressed by the factor @xmath130 compared to those present in eq .  .",
    "we also made use of the test field approximation and neglected metric corrections induced by idm .",
    "as it follows from eq .  , metric perturbations do not directly affect the velocity potential in the second order .",
    "the former enter only via the quantity @xmath110 .",
    "this is a generic fact , which takes place for all the higher order corrections to the field @xmath7 .    integrating out eq .",
    ", one obtains @xmath131 it is easy to see that the second order velocity perturbation , @xmath132 , goes to zero in the limit @xmath121 , as it should be . in particular , for @xmath133 , the field @xmath134 is independent of the variable @xmath77 in the limit @xmath80 , @xmath135 and thus exhibits the regular behavior upstream from the sun . to the contrast , in the downstream region , the asymptotic behavior of the field @xmath134 is described by @xmath136 namely , we gained the large factor @xmath137 compared to eq .  .",
    "this amplification is exactly the manifestation of gravitational focusing . moving towards very small values of the variable @xmath77 , however , one subsequently breaks down the validity of the inequality  . in the non - perturbative phase ,",
    "the result   is not applied , and one should find another way to treat the field @xmath7 .",
    "we postpone this task until section  6 . on the other hand , wherever the inequality   is obeyed , the second order quantity   is consistently smaller than the linear one  , @xmath138 .",
    "this justifies the statement made in section  4 .",
    "now , let us evaluate the energy density @xmath8 in the second order . again keeping only the leading powers of the quantity @xmath126",
    ", we write the relevant equation as @xmath139 to the linear order , we remind , the energy density @xmath8 equals to zero .",
    "this explains the absence of the term @xmath140 .",
    "integrating out eq .",
    "with the boundary condition @xmath141 at @xmath121 , one gets @xmath142 the latter exhibits a regular behavior for all @xmath105 , while for @xmath78 there is a singularity in the formal limit @xmath80 , @xmath143 this enhancement translates into the strong amplification of metric perturbations .",
    "once again , such a strong dependence on the variable @xmath77 is trustworthy to the extent that the inequality   holds .",
    "otherwise , non - perturbative effects can not be ignored .",
    "these will be considered in section  6 .    in the quadratic order ,",
    "the @xmath84-component of the ricci tensor @xmath144 is given by @xmath145 where the static ansatz is assumed .",
    "the last two terms on the r.h.s .",
    "are sourced by the linear metric perturbations .",
    "these , we remind , are the same as in gr and are given by eq .  .",
    "in the second order , the standard matter contributes to the r.h.s . of einstein equations by @xmath146 where @xmath147 is the mass distribution inside the sun , @xmath148 .",
    "here we explicitly neglect the pressure of the sun as well as the relative motion of its components . the analogous contribution due to idm",
    "is inferred from eq .",
    ", @xmath149 note that we ignored the term @xmath150 present in eq .  .",
    "according to eq .",
    ", it may be non - zero only in the non - perturbative region . to write the resulting expression for the second order metric perturbation @xmath151 , we switch to the spheric coordinates , where it takes the elegant form",
    ", @xmath152 @xmath37 is the angle between the @xmath68-axis and the line of sight .",
    "the potential @xmath153 is defined by @xmath154 notably , this part of the metric perturbation caused by ` self - gravity ' of the sun carries no imprint of idm .",
    "we relegate the details of derivation of eq .   to appendix  d. here let us note the main trick used at this level .",
    "instead of integrating out directly eq .  , it is more convenient to write the expression for the field @xmath155 as follows , @xmath156 then , the idm induced metric correction can be obtained immediately @xmath157 using eq .   from appendix  d",
    ", we reproduce the second term on the r.h.s . of eq .  .",
    "in the limit @xmath158 , this term grows fast and quickly becomes of the order of the main terms in the metric expansion .",
    "for very small values of the angle @xmath37 , however , the perturbative description employed in the present section is not valid , and one may expect softening of the singularity in the non - perturbative phase .",
    "this is indeed the case , as we will see in section  6 . on the other hand ,",
    "the expression   remains finite upstream from the sun ( @xmath159 ) , where it tends to the constant value ( with respect to the angle @xmath37 ) @xmath160 .",
    "therefore , gravitational focusing has a marginal impact on the planetary dynamics , even if they never pass through the downstream region .    as for the concluding remark",
    ", we would like to stress that eqs .   and",
    "represent only a particular solution of the einstein equations ( see the discussion in the end of section  4 ) .",
    "the general solution for the metric perturbation @xmath161 will be fixed in section  6 upon defining the full idm profile .",
    "to understand better the region of the applicability of the perturbative analysis , let us calculate the third order correction to the field @xmath162 . using the same arguments as in the beginning of section  5 , we write down the simplified version of the relevant equation , @xmath163 once again , higher order corrections to the field @xmath7 are defined by the lower order ones , while metric perturbations do not directly affect them .",
    "the solution for this equation is given by @xmath164 where we restrict to the case of small variables @xmath77 , still obeying the inequality  . despite the strong amplification in the limit @xmath80 , the hierarchy @xmath165 holds everywhere in the region  .",
    "on the other hand , for @xmath166 , one has @xmath167 , what implies the breakdown of the perturbation approach . by recursion",
    ", that statement can be extended to an arbitrary order .",
    "we conclude that eq .",
    "remains intact upon including higher order corrections .",
    "now let us compare the leading order asymptotic behavior of the corrections @xmath168 , @xmath169 and @xmath170 in the region  .",
    "we obtain from eqs .   and  , @xmath171 by recursion , one can check that the same holds to an arbitrary order , @xmath172 that is , in the limit @xmath80 , corrections to the velocity @xmath173 possess the same directional dependence being different only in the magnitude .",
    "this simple observation allows to assess the relevant fields in the deeply non - linear phase , @xmath174 the following ansatz for the perturbation @xmath175 should work , @xmath176 for the sake of future convenience , we explicitly separated the linear order term . in the perturbative phase , the function @xmath177 is defined as a series @xmath178 .",
    "our task is to find the function @xmath177 suitable for both regimes   and  . for this purpose ,",
    "we substitute the ansatz   into the equation @xmath179 we again make use of the newtonian approximation for the metric .",
    "this gives for the function @xmath177 , @xmath180 where we omitted the terms of the order @xmath181(those present here ) . combining everything altogether ,",
    "we obtain @xmath182 expanding this expression in powers of the potential @xmath109 , one reproduces our perturbative results , as it should be .",
    "furthermore , it matches the velocity distribution , which characterizes a hypothetic flow of dust particles past the point source .",
    "see appendix  b for the exact formulae . here",
    "let us point out the cancellation between the term @xmath183 in eq .   and the first term on the r.h.s . of eq .",
    "each of them taken separately would lead to the singular behavior of the resulting velocity perturbation in the limit @xmath80 . due to their cancellation",
    ", the expression   remains finite .",
    "this is the smoothening of the field @xmath7 ( and , consequently , @xmath8 ) quoted in the previous sections .",
    "such a smoothening in the non - linear regime is similar  albeit different in nature  to the vainshtein screening ( see e.g. the review on the vainshtein mechanism  @xcite ) .",
    "the expression   is enough in order to calculate higher derivatives of the field @xmath7 and the energy density @xmath8 in the non - perturbative phase .",
    "in particular , the field @xmath8 is defined by the equation analogous to eqs .   and  , but with one important modification .",
    "since derivatives with respect to the variable @xmath77 are more relevant now , one makes the replacement @xmath184 using eq .   and",
    "performing integration , we find the leading order asymptotics in the limit @xmath80 for the density field @xmath8 , @xmath185 note a milder dependence on the variable @xmath77 compared to eq .  .",
    "interestingly , the lagrange multiplier field @xmath8 is independent of the mass of the source .",
    "this appears to be a generic feature of the static solutions in the highly non - linear regime , see appendix  a. from eq .",
    "it is straightforward to evaluate the correction to the newtonian potential induced by idm , @xmath186 here @xmath187 and @xmath188 are the constants of integration . in particular ,",
    "the constant @xmath188 plays the role of the cutoff on the angles @xmath37 . in the limit @xmath189 , the solution   blows up .",
    "this corresponds to the situation , when the energy density @xmath8 retains its non - integrable @xmath77-dependence as in eq .   arbitrarily close to the positive @xmath68-axis .",
    "one may expect that new physics or unaccounted phenomenon smoothen the singularity in eq .",
    "leading to a finite cutoff @xmath188 .",
    "we will concretize the possible values of @xmath188 shortly .    beforehand , let us address one long - standing issue : how does the non - perturbative part of the idm profile affect the metric in the region  ?",
    "the full metric correction can be written as follows , @xmath190 here @xmath88 is the particular solution of the einstein equation drawn from the perturbatively calculated idm profile .",
    "we remind that it is zero in the linear order and is given by the second term of the r.h.s .",
    "eq .   in the quadratic order .",
    "the term @xmath191 accounts for idm distribution in the non - regime .",
    "it is estimated by @xmath192 consistently , it satisfies the homogeneous einstein equation @xmath193 reducing to the laplace equation @xmath194 .",
    "the function @xmath195 is set by matching between the full metric correction   and the value   on the boundary @xmath196 .",
    "we see that the term @xmath195 stemming from the non - perturbative part of the idm profile gives a large contribution to the overall metric correction .",
    "namely , it is enhanced at least logarithmically relative to the particular solution @xmath88 .",
    "the two contributions , however , are clearly non - degenerate .",
    "first , non - perturbative effects are independent of the sun s mass .",
    "second , the terms @xmath88 and @xmath195 have different shapes with respect to the variables @xmath37 and @xmath197 .",
    "this ensures that they can be treated separately , when probing our model with existing observational data .    for viability of the idm scenario",
    ", we should assume that the growth of the energy density   is cut at some small @xmath77 , what translates into a finite cutoff @xmath188 . to probe possible values of @xmath188 ,",
    "let us first elucidate the origin of the singularity .",
    "its appearance can be traced back to the @xmath77-component of the velocity perturbation @xmath175 , which does not vanish in the limit @xmath80 .",
    "therefore , a caustic is formed nearby the positive @xmath68-axis .",
    "this result is not particularly surprising , and could be anticipated readily from the existence of the constraint  .",
    "we see that the sharp growth of the energy density in the limit @xmath80 can be smoothened , once the singularity at the caustic is cured .    in the end of section",
    "3 , it was pointed out that the caustic singularity may be resolved apart from the test field approximation .",
    "the contribution due to idm is sub - dominant , if the ( derivative of ) metric correction   is not larger than the ( derivative of ) newtonian potential .",
    "this condition translates into an inequality for the angle @xmath37 , @xmath198 we substitute the characteristic value of the potential @xmath109 in the solar system @xmath199 . as for the constant @xmath6",
    ", we borrow the upper bound from the next section , @xmath200 .",
    "then the condition   gives @xmath201 .",
    "thus , if the caustic singularity is cured beyond the test field approximation , we get in terms of the logarithm of the angular cutoff @xmath202",
    ".    otherwise , one attributes smoothening of the idm energy density to the uv completing operators .",
    "recall that the necessity of the uv cutoff by itself is not a new assumption .",
    "indeed , the model   is plagued with the ghost instabilities , which lead to a rapid vacuum destabilization , unless there is a sufficiently low cutoff / strong coupling scale .",
    "the latter is constrained as @xmath203 .",
    "it is reasonable to assume that the caustic singularity is resolved at those or smaller scales .",
    "this implies the constraint on the logarithm of the angular cutoff @xmath204 .",
    "we summarize that the cutoff @xmath188 is bounded as @xmath205 for those tiny values of @xmath188 , the metric correction @xmath191 sourced by distribution of idm on the boundary is amplified at least by the factor @xmath206 compared to @xmath88 .",
    "our purpose in the present section is to constrain the model parameter @xmath6 starting from the non - observation of deviations from gr in the solar system .",
    "as we have seen in the section 4 , to the linear order , gravitational focusing experienced by the flow of idm produces no effect on the metric perturbations .",
    "thus , no constraints on the constant @xmath6 proceed at this level . on the contrary , vector / scalar - tensor models with the preferred frame ,",
    "e.g. , einstein - aether and closely related setups  @xcite , generically predict non - zero ppn parameters @xmath207 and @xmath208 .",
    "of course , preferred frame effects are not absent in the idm scenario , but simply emerge in a different way .",
    "in particular , the structure of the energy density @xmath8 and metric corrections exhibit a clear directional ( @xmath37- ) dependence .",
    "these second order corrections yield non - trivial constraints on the model constant @xmath6 . for the sake of convenience , we rewrite eq .",
    "in such a form , that the deviation of the @xmath84-component of the metric from its gr counterpart @xmath209 is manifest , @xmath210 here we introduced the parameter @xmath35 ( not to be confused with the correct ppn parameter @xmath0 ) given by @xmath211 the above defined quantity @xmath35 is similar to the standard ppn parameter @xmath0 . therefore , we expect the metric correction   to influence the precession of the mercury perihelion , the subject of high precision measurements nowadays . non - observation of any deviations from gr at this level implies a stringent bound on the model constant @xmath6 inferred from the existing limits on the ppn parameter @xmath0 .",
    "we would like to stress , however , that the parameters @xmath35 and @xmath0 are not identical , as the former explicitly depends on the spatial coordinate @xmath37 , while the latter is assumed to be constant . to be on the safe side ,",
    "we formulate our goal as to _ conservatively _ bound the model constant @xmath6 .",
    "this can be done rigorously for the following reasons .",
    "first , the quantity @xmath212 is always positively defined .",
    "this ensures that the effect encoded in eq .   does not average to zero , when considered on large time scales .",
    "furthermore , the quantity @xmath212 exhibits a monotonous growth towards the smaller angles @xmath37 starting from the minimal value is the quarter of the r.h.s . of eq .  .",
    "our sloppy estimate , however , better fits to the realistic physical situation discussed below . ]",
    "@xmath213 which sets the lower bound on the deviation from gr in the idm scenario .",
    "this minimal deviation has manifestly a ppn form , and thus the bounds on the parameter @xmath0 can be used to constrain the constant @xmath6 .",
    "in fact , the choice @xmath214 implied in eq",
    ".   appears to be the most reasonable one .",
    "namely , it corresponds to the case , when the preferred and halo rest frames coincide .",
    "the latter moves relative to the sun with the speed @xmath66 in the direction inclined towards the ecliptic plane by the angle @xmath215 .",
    "hence , the use of the estimate   is fully justified also from the viewpoint of the physically realistic conditions . according to the discussion above",
    ", we identify the parameter @xmath35 at its minimal value to the ppn parameter @xmath0 .",
    "we then make use of the observational bounds deduced from the study of the precession of the mercury perihelion  @xcite , @xmath216 we arrive at the following limit for the constant @xmath6 , @xmath217 this constraint carries a certain advantage over the limits of eqs .   and  .",
    "in particular , our constraint is valid independently on whether idm gives the main contribution to the overall dm ( as it is assumed in eq .  ) , or it constitutes only a tiny fraction . besides , it is not sensitive to details of microscopic physics",
    ".    stronger constraints on the parameter @xmath6 would follow , if the velocity @xmath34 was inclined towards the ecliptic plane by the small angle @xmath218 , see fig .",
    "for example , this is the case , if the preferred frame is at rest with respect to the cosmic microwave background .",
    "note that the sun moves relative to the cosmic frame with the speed @xmath65 in the direction characterized by the angle of inclination @xmath219  @xcite . in that case , the effects of gravitational focusing are more pronounced . for simplicity ,",
    "let us fix the angle @xmath37 entering   at the value @xmath220 .",
    "this is by no means a realistic assumption , since the parameter @xmath35 undergoes the large modulation during the period of the mercury orbiting in the situation of interest .",
    "we make it merely to probe the sensitivity of the mercury perihelion observations to the model constant @xmath6 .",
    "the result reads @xmath221 to be more specific , one should consider the peculiar motion of mercury with respect to the direction of the velocity @xmath34 .",
    "this task is out of the scope of the paper .",
    "the constraint   is not trustworthy also for another reason .",
    "it is unlikely that the preferred and cosmic frames coincide .",
    "indeed , idm residing in the halo is decoupled from the cosmological background .",
    "still , this discussion may be of some interest for the following considerations .",
    "the limit   assumes that idm has a zero velocity everywhere in the halo .",
    "the real picture is somewhat more complicated , as the galaxy may be permeated by the local flows  @xcite , which sum up to give the zero net momentum of the overall dm distribution .",
    "this our ignorance about the halo physics in the idm scenario leads to the uncertaintity , when we attempt to quantify an idm flow past the sun .",
    "while barring the fine - tuning , the velocity @xmath56 is estimated by @xmath32 , its inclination towards the ecliptic plane is less constrained . therefore , there is a room left for strengthening the bound   on the parameter @xmath6 with the better understood halo physics .",
    "as for concluding remarks , let us discuss our result   in relation to other constraints .",
    "the limit   is many orders of magnitude stronger than the one concluded from the structure formation considerations  @xcite given in eq .  .",
    "as a result , once eq .   is satisfied , idm behaves identically to cdm at the cosmological scales . on the other hand , idm leaves drastically different signatures at the level of the solar system , compared to cdm . in particular , using the expression  , we can estimate the energy density of idm .",
    "taking @xmath222 and @xmath214 , we obtain at the earth distance @xmath223 this is to be contrasted to the background energy density of dm near the earth @xmath224 .",
    "downstream from the sun , where the effects of gravitational focusing are particularly prominent , the energy density is further enhanced by the factor @xmath225 .",
    "these estimates justify neglecting the inevitable part of idm related to its presence in the halo .",
    "finally , we would like to elucidate some implications of the constraint   for the microscopic physics .",
    "the strong coupling in the model at hand is given by @xmath226  @xcite .",
    "consequently , with the limit  , we expect the uv physics to come into play at the scales @xmath227 tev .",
    "interestingly , within one or two orders of magnitude , this expectation meets the microscopic physics requirement  @xcite : @xmath228 tev .",
    "we showed that the solar system is a useful playground for testing idm .",
    "we leave for future studies of astrophysical systems with compact objects , e.g. , pulsars and black holes .",
    "these are believed to provide alternative ( hopefully , even more stringent ) limits on the parameter @xmath6 .",
    "we would like to thank yuri eroshenko for helpful correspondence on cold dark matter and gilles  esposito - farse for discussions on the solar system tests and critical remarks .",
    "was supported in part by the research program , `` programme national de cosmologie et galaxies '' of the cnrs / insu , france , and russian foundation for basic research grant no .",
    "rfbr 15 - 02 - 05038 .",
    "the present appendix serves to assess the modification of gravity produced in the regime , where the inequality   is not obeyed . for the sake of simplicity",
    ", we will consider the limit of vanishing speed @xmath229 . in this limit",
    ", the model possesses the spherical symmetry .",
    "a similar setup has been employed for the study of spherically symmetric objects in horndeski / galileon theory  @xcite .",
    "there is an important difference , however : in the case of the galileon scenario , the time - dependent ansatz is caused by the requirement that the local solution matches the cosmologically evolving scalar field .",
    "there are also scenarios where the galileon does not evolve with time . on the contrary",
    ", the time - dependence of the field @xmath7 follows necessarily from the structure of the model  .",
    "the constraint equation   then takes the form @xmath230 this gives for the field @xmath231 , @xmath232 modulo the irrelevant constant of integration .    in the spherically symmetric static case , the l.h.s . and r.h.s .",
    "of the ( non)conservation equation   can be written as @xmath233 and @xmath234 respectively ; @xmath235 . combining altogether , we get for the energy density @xmath8 , @xmath236 performing the integration with respect to the variable @xmath197 , we obtain @xmath237 here @xmath187 is some constant of integration .",
    "it can not be defined within the present analysis , as we are lacking the knowledge of idm distribution inside the sun . in the newton s limit",
    ", only the @xmath84-component of the idm stress energy tensor is relevant , @xmath238 here we omitted the @xmath6-terms in the expression for the idm stress - energy tensor  : they are suppressed by the value of the potential @xmath109 .",
    "the only relevant part of the ricci tensor is given by @xmath239 .",
    "consequently , einstein equations reduce to @xmath240 the first term on the r.h.s .",
    "results into the standard newton s law , while the second one encodes the correction to the gravitational potential , @xmath241 where @xmath242 and @xmath243 are the integration constant .",
    "as it follows , the correction to the newtonian potential @xmath244 grows as @xmath245 ( relative to the potential @xmath109 ) .",
    "the different picture occurs in the regime @xmath246in that case , idm induced metric corrections do not exhibit any amplification with the radius @xmath197 ( relative to the background terms in the metric expansion ) .",
    "see eq .  . to paraphrase , upon switching from the regime @xmath247 to @xmath246 , the effects due to gravitational focusing become substantially milder",
    "the same conclusion only strengthens , once the second term on the r.h.s .",
    "of eq .   is included .",
    "let us discuss the consequences , which the solution   entails for the results of the present work . as it has been pointed above ,",
    "the value of the constant @xmath187 is defined upon matching of eq .   to the solution for the metric inside the sun .",
    "this task is out of the scope of this work and we do not consider the corresponding term in what follows . on the boundary @xmath248 the logarithmic term matches well the metric correction obtained from the perturbative distribution of idm , i.e. , the second term on the r.h.s . of eq .  .",
    "on the other hand , the term @xmath249 tells us something new . in the certain sense , it is analogous to the boundary term   and stands for the discrepancy between the particular solution of einstein equations   and   from the full solution .",
    "this discrepancy is now sourced by the distribution of idm in the region  @xmath250 , with the constant @xmath243 playing the role of the mass of idm in that region .",
    "namely , @xmath251 , where @xmath252 denotes a characteristic size of the region .",
    "therefore , the term @xmath249 should be included in the full metric solution  .",
    "let us argue , however , that it does not lead to any physically observable consequences , and , hence , does not compromise the results of the present research .",
    "indeed , according to its @xmath197-dependence , it can be eliminated by simultaneously shifting the gravitational constant compared to the newton s constant also contributes to the @xmath87-component of the metric .",
    "hence , shifting the gravitational constant , it is eliminated at this level as well . ]",
    "the shift is estimated by @xmath254 .",
    "this is unobservable given our stringent limit on the constant @xmath6 .",
    "in section  2 , it was pointed out that eq",
    ".   leads to the geodesics equation followed by test particles in the external gravitational field .",
    "we also observed in the main part of the paper , that the newtonian limit works fairly well , when evaluating the corrections to the field @xmath7 .",
    "this suggests an alternative way to calculate the velocity potential @xmath7 , or , more precisely , its spatial derivatives .",
    "namely , one tracks the flow of dust particles in the gravitational field created by the point source .",
    "hereafter , we follow ref .",
    "@xcite , and parametrize the trajectory of a single particle as @xmath255 @xmath256 and @xmath257 here @xmath258 is the impact parameter , @xmath15 is the eccentric anomaly parameter , @xmath259 , and @xmath260 . in terms of the parameters @xmath261 and @xmath262 ,",
    "the velocity of the flow is described by @xmath263 @xmath264 one then inverts eqs .   and  , so that to express the parameters @xmath258 and @xmath15 via the variables @xmath68 and @xmath77 , @xmath265 and @xmath266 ^ 2 \\right ) \\ ; , \\ ] ] where @xmath267 and @xmath268 are given by @xmath269 and @xmath270 respectively .",
    "substituting eqs .   and   into eqs .   and",
    ", one finally obtains the velocity of the flow as the function of the spatial variables @xmath68 and @xmath77 .",
    "this should be contrasted to the results obtained in the bulk of the paper .",
    "there is a subtlety . in the case of the particle dm , two solutions labeled by the subscripts @xmath271 and @xmath272",
    "correspond to the two flows produced at the shell - crossing . on the other hand",
    ", idm is fundamentally single flow , as it has been pointed out in the end of section  3 .",
    "therefore , out of two , we should pick one solution .",
    "the solution must satisfy our boundary conditions for the field @xmath7 : @xmath273 at @xmath121 . only the branch with the upper signs in the equations above",
    "fulfills this condition .",
    "we stick to this branch in what follows . for simplicity , we consider only the radial component of the velocity @xmath274 .",
    "this is given by @xmath275 where @xmath276 ^ 2}{[1-\\sqrt{1+y}]^2 } \\ ; .\\ ] ] in the limit @xmath80 and for positive @xmath68 , the argument @xmath267 blows up , i.e. , @xmath277 .",
    "simultaneously , @xmath278 , and one arrives at @xmath279 this reproduces our result  , where one should consider the limit @xmath80 . at the same time , in the particle picture the perturbative regime corresponds to very small values of the variable @xmath267 , i.e. , @xmath280 .",
    "expanding eq .   in a series over the powers of the parameter @xmath267",
    ", we get in the linear and in the quadratic order @xmath281 and @xmath282 respectively .",
    "these perfectly match eqs .   and   from the bulk of the paper .",
    "in section  4 , we concluded that idm leaves no trace on the metric to the linear order .",
    "the discussion there was provided for a sufficiently compact object , the sun . in that case , the conditions   and   break down near its surface and in the downstream region , respectively . to overcome this obstacle",
    ", we loosely extrapolated our perturbative calculation for the idm fields @xmath8 and @xmath7 to the whole space .",
    "one may inquire now : what is the structure of linear corrections to the metrics would be these inequalities trustworthy everywhere ?",
    "that question is not of the pure heuristic interest .",
    "indeed , for a sufficiently light and not very compact object like the earth , the condition   is obeyed down to its center . on the other hand , violation of the inequality   occurs only in a very narrow part of space measured by the angle @xmath283 near the surface of the earth .",
    "we consider it a reasonable approximation to neglect possible effects , which stem from this region .",
    "remarkably , despite the seeming differences between the cases of the sun and the earth , linear corrections to the metric are absent in the latter case either .",
    "this gives a further support for the main statement of section  4 : the effects due to gravitational focusing are completely irrelevant at the level of the linear analysis .",
    "as for the first step , we find the field @xmath110 , or , more precisely , @xmath284 .",
    "we apply the laplace operator to both parts of eq .  , and then integrate it out with respect to the variable @xmath68 , @xmath285 where @xmath147 denotes the mass distribution inside the earth . in the linear order , the equation defining the field @xmath8 is given by eq .  .",
    "performing the integration with respect to the variable @xmath68 there and using eq .  , we obtain @xmath286 we see that the energy density @xmath8 is zero everywhere , except for the tube - like region close to the positive @xmath68-axis . away from it , the field @xmath122 does not affect metric perturbations , as it clearly follows from the structure of eq .  .",
    "hence , we can safely ignore it .",
    "it is straightforward to show that the @xmath84-metric component remains intact in the presence of idm .",
    "indeed , the latter contributes to the r.h.s . of einstein equations by @xmath287 we set the latter to zero according to the discussion above .",
    "hence , the standard matter is the only source of metric perturbations at this level .",
    "we then evaluate the @xmath87-components of the metric .",
    "the relevant components of the ricci tensor are given by @xmath288 where we made use of the harmonic gauge .",
    "the standard matter and idm contribute to the r.h.s . of einstein equations by @xmath289 and @xmath290 respectively . neglecting the contribution from the field",
    "@xmath8 , we obtain for the @xmath87-metric components , @xmath291 finally , we calculate the @xmath86-metric components . in the harmonic gauge , the relevant part of the ricci tensor is given by @xmath292 idm contributes to the r.h.s . of einstein equations by @xmath293 while the standard matter does not contribute at this level . combining altogether",
    ", we obtain @xmath294 now let us perform the additional gauge transformation with @xmath295 this serves to eliminate the anisotropic part in the metric components @xmath296 .",
    "simultaneously , the components @xmath297 turn into 0 , while the @xmath84-component remains intact .",
    "we conclude that the linear order metric perturbations are unaffected by idm also in the case of sufficiently light astrophysical objects .",
    "in the present appendix , we discuss the details of derivation of eq .  .",
    "first , it is convenient to rewrite the expression for the second order of the @xmath84-component of the ricci tensor   as follows , @xmath298 where the potential @xmath153 is defined by eq .  .",
    "we rewrite the r.h.s . of eq .",
    "in the similar fashion @xmath299 here we made use of the identity @xmath300 finally , we express the second order energy density @xmath155 from eq .",
    "@xmath301 one makes use of eq .   to evaluate the integral on the r.h.s . here",
    ", @xmath302 combining altogether , we write the einstein equation defining the field @xmath151 @xmath303 where @xmath177 is the function given by @xmath304 eq .",
    "can be integrated out in the straightforward manner .",
    "the result is given by eq .   from the bulk of the paper .",
    "c.  m.  will , living rev .",
    "* 17 * ( 2014 ) 4 ; [ arxiv:1403.7377 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "a.  h.  chamseddine , v.  mukhanov and a.  vikman , jcap * 1406 * ( 2014 ) 017 ; [ arxiv:1403.3961 [ astro-ph.co ] ] . f.  capela and s.  ramazanov , jcap * 1504 * ( 2015 ) 051 ; [ arxiv:1412.2051 [ astro-ph.co ] ] .",
    "l.  mirzagholi and a.  vikman , jcap * 1506 * ( 2015 ) 028 ; [ arxiv:1412.7136 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "t.  jacobson and d.  mattingly , phys .",
    "d * 64 * ( 2001 ) 024028 ; [ gr - qc/0007031 ] .",
    "s.  ramazanov , jcap * 12 * ( 2015 ) 007 ; [ arxiv:1507.00291 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "p.  horava , phys .",
    "d * 79 * ( 2009 ) 084008 ; [ arxiv:0901.3775 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "sotiriou , m.  visser and s.  weinfurtner , phys .  rev",
    ".  lett .",
    "* 102 * ( 2009 ) 251601 ; [ arxiv:0904.4464 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "sotiriou , m.  visser and s.  weinfurtner , jhep * 0910 * ( 2009 ) 033 ; [ arxiv:0905.2798 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "k.  koyama and f.  arroja , jhep * 1003 * ( 2010 ) 061 ; [ arxiv:0910.1998 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "d.  blas , o.  pujolas and s.  sibiryakov , jhep * 1104 * ( 2011 ) 018 ; [ arxiv:1007.3503 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "s.  ramazanov , f.  arroja , m.  celoria , s.  matarrese and l.  pilo , jhep * 1606 * ( 2016 ) 020 ; [ arxiv:1601.05405 [ hep - th ] ] . j.  m.  cline , s.  jeon and g.  d.  moore , phys .",
    "d * 70 * ( 2004 ) 043543 ; [ hep - ph/0311312 ] .",
    "v.  a.  rubakov and p.  g.  tinyakov , phys .",
    "* 51 * ( 2008 ) 759 ; [ arxiv:0802.4379 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "p.  sreekumar _ et al .",
    "_ [ egret collaboration ] , astrophys .  j.   * 494 * ( 1998 ) 523 ; [ astro - ph/9709257 ] .    a.  o.  barvinsky , d.  blas , m.  herrero - valea , s.  m.  sibiryakov and c.  f.  steinwachs , phys .",
    "d * 93 * ( 2016 ) no.6 , 064022 ; [ arxiv:1512.02250 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "s.  mukohyama , phys .",
    "d * 80 * ( 2009 ) 064005 ; [ arxiv:0905.3563 [ hep - th ] ] .      c.  charmousis , g.  niz , a.  padilla and p.  m.  saffin , jhep * 0908 * ( 2009 ) 070 ; [ arxiv:0905.2579 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "d.  blas , o.  pujolas and s.  sibiryakov , phys .",
    "lett .   * 104 * ( 2010 ) 181302 ; [ arxiv:0909.3525 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "p.  horava and c.  m.  melby - thompson , phys .",
    "d * 82 * ( 2010 ) 064027 ; [ arxiv:1007.2410 [ hep - th ] ] .",
    "a.  h.  chamseddine and v.  mukhanov , jhep * 1311 * ( 2013 ) 135 ; [ arxiv:1308.5410 [ astro-ph.co ] ] .",
    "n.  deruelle and j.  rua , jcap * 1409 * ( 2014 ) 002 ; [ arxiv:1407.0825 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "a.  golovnev , phys .",
    "b * 728 * ( 2014 ) 39 ; [ arxiv:1310.2790 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "k.  hammer and a.  vikman ; arxiv:1512.09118 [ gr - qc ] .",
    "f.  arroja , n.  bartolo , p.  karmakar and s.  matarrese , jcap * 1509 * ( 2015 ) 051 ; [ arxiv:1506.08575 [ gr - qc ] ] . f.  arroja , n.  bartolo , p.  karmakar and s.  matarrese , jcap * 1604 * ( 2016 ) no.04 , 042 ; [ arxiv:1512.09374 [ gr - qc ] ] . j.  danby and g.  camm , mnrs * 117 * , 50 ( 1957 ) .      k.  griest , phys .  rev .",
    "d * 37 * ( 1988 ) 2703 .",
    "p.  sikivie and s.  wick , phys .",
    "d * 66 * ( 2002 ) 023504 ; [ astro - ph/0203448 ] .",
    "s.  k.  lee , m.  lisanti , a.  h.  g.  peter and b.  r.  safdi , phys .",
    "* 112 * ( 2014 ) no.1 , 011301 ; [ arxiv:1308.1953 [ astro-ph.co ] ] .",
    "b.  z.  foster and t.  jacobson , phys .",
    "d * 73 * ( 2006 ) 064015 ; [ gr - qc/0509083 ] .",
    "d.  blas and e.  lim , int .",
    "j.  mod .",
    "d * 23 * ( 2015 ) 13 , 1443009 ; [ arxiv:1412.4828 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "p.  a.  r.  ade _ et al .",
    "_ [ planck collaboration ] , astron .",
    "astrophys .",
    "* 594 * ( 2016 ) a5 ; [ arxiv:1505.08022 [ astro-ph.im ] ] .",
    "e.  babichev , c.  deffayet and g.  esposito - farse , phys .",
    "lett .   * 107 * ( 2011 ) 251102 ; [ arxiv:1107.1569 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "e.  babichev and g.  esposito - farse , phys .",
    "d * 87 * ( 2013 ) 044032 ; [ arxiv:1212.1394 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "a.  cisterna , t.  delsate and m.  rinaldi , phys .",
    "d * 92 * , no . 4 , 044050 ( 2015 ) ; [ arxiv:1504.05189 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "e.  babichev , c.  charmousis and a.  leh ' ebel , class .",
    "grav .   * 33 * ( 2016 ) no.15 , 154002 ; [ arxiv:1604.06402 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "a.  cisterna , t.  delsate , l.  ducobu and m.  rinaldi , phys .",
    "d * 93 * ( 2016 ) no.8 , 084046 ; [ arxiv:1602.06939 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "a.  maselli , h.  o.  silva , m.  minamitsuji and e.  berti , phys .  rev .",
    "d * 93 * ( 2016 ) no.12 , 124056 ; [ arxiv:1603.04876 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "r.  saito , d.  yamauchi , s.  mizuno , j.  gleyzes and d.  langlois , jcap * 1506 * ( 2015 ) 008 ; [ arxiv:1503.01448 [ gr - qc ] ] .",
    "e.  babichev , k.  koyama , d.  langlois , r.  saito and j.  sakstein ; arxiv:1606.06627 [ gr - qc ] ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> motivated by the projectable horava  lifshitz model / mimetic matter scenario , we consider a particular modification of standard gravity , which manifests as an imperfect low pressure fluid . while practically indistinguishable from a collection of non - relativistic weakly interacting particles on cosmological scales , it leaves drastically different signatures in the solar system . </S>",
    "<S> the main effect stems from gravitational focusing of the flow of _ imperfect dark matter _ passing near the sun . </S>",
    "<S> this entails strong amplification of imperfect dark matter energy density compared to its average value in the surrounding halo . </S>",
    "<S> the enhancement is many orders of magnitude larger than in the case of cold dark matter , provoking deviations of the metric in the second order in the newtonian potential . </S>",
    "<S> effects of gravitational focusing are prominent enough to substantially affect the planetary dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> using the existing bound on the ppn parameter @xmath0 , we deduce a stringent constraint on the unique constant of the model . </S>"
  ]
}