{
  "article_text": [
    "`` hot jupiter '' exoplanets have masses comparable to the mass of jupiter and orbital semi - major axes not exceeding 0.1au .",
    "the proximity of these objects to their central stars leads to a supersonic regime for the stellar wind flowing around the planet , and therefore to the formation of an outgoing shock followed by a contact discontinuity  a boundary separating the matter of the wind from the gas of the exoplanetary atmosphere  @xcite .",
    "according to  @xcite , the gaseous envelopes around hot jupiters can be divided into three types .",
    "first and foremost , we must distinguish closed envelopes , where the head - on collision point ( hocp ) corresponding to the minimum distance from the contact discontinuity to the planet is located inside the roche lobe . depending on the degree of filling of the roche lobe ,",
    "such envelopes may deviate from a spherical shape , but they are undoubtedly characterized by an absence of a significant outflow of matter , @xmath0  @xcite . if the hocp , and consequently part of the atmosphere , is located outside the roche lobe , a significant outflow from the vicinity of the inner lagrange point 1 is present , and the envelope becomes appreciably asymmetrical .",
    "some parts of the envelope may have restricted dimensions , since the propagation of the flow arising when the roche lobe overflows may be stopped by the dynamical pressure of the stellar wind . in this case , a quasi - closed , stationary envelope with a complex shape forms in the system  @xcite , with corresponding mass - loss rates of @xmath1  @xcite . if the wind is not able to stop the flow from 1 , an open , aspherical envelope forms in the system .",
    "closed and quasi - closed envelopes are of the most interest for our study , since they are stationary formations with relative low mass - loss rates .",
    "open envelopes are characterized by high mass - loss rates  @xcite and short lifetimes , and can probably exist only during specific , short - lived stages in the evolution of the atmospheres of hot jupiters .",
    "previous results on gas - dynamical simulations of the envelopes of hot jupiters have assumed that the stellar wind does not vary with time . at the same time , it is known from observations that even a relatively quiescent star such as the sun has a wind in the form of a quasi - neutral plasma that can vary by factors of tens ( see , e.g. ,  @xcite ) .    beginning in the 1990s",
    ", it was known that the main source of the perturbed solar wind is giant ejections of matter from the solar corona , so - called coronal mass ejections ( cmes ) . according to  @xcite",
    ", cmes are characterized by a mean mass of plasma ejected into the interplanetary medium @xmath2 , a mean ejection energy @xmath3 , and ejection velocities that vary from @xmath4 to @xmath5 ; i.e. , the motion is obviously supersonic , so that the propagation of the ejection is accompanied by the formation of a shock . moreover",
    ", a cme often differs from the ordinary solar wind by an up to 10 - 15% increase in the abundance of helium ions .",
    "note that , even for the sun , the frequency of cmes is very high , and varies from 0.5 to 2.5 per day , depending on the time separation from the maximum of the solar activity cycle  @xcite .",
    "this means that an exopanet located even around a quiescent star will fairly often ( no less than twice per month , as is the case for the earth ) be subject to the action of cmes , which distort the flow patterns in its gaseous envelope .",
    "the main aim of our present study is to investigate the action of cmes having fairly typical parameters on the structure of flows in the gaseous envelopes of hot jupiters .",
    "the discovery in  @xcite of the possibility of forming extended gaseous envelopes around hot jupiters not only fundamentally changes approach to interpreting observational data , but also substantially influences consideration of the physical processes occurring in these envelopes .",
    "in particular , it is very obvious that , if the size of the envelope exceeds the size of the roche lobe , matter that is formally part of the planetary atmosphere will be only weakly gravitationally bound to it . in this case ,",
    "even a small external action ( such as a cme ) is sufficient to tear off the outer part of the envelope from the planet , thereby appreciably increasing the mass loss by the exoplanet .",
    "another important consequence of an extended envelope is the possibility of neglecting the influence of the planet s magnetic field on the dynamics of the outer layers of the envelope , and using gas - dynamical equations to describe the flows in the system . indeed , even with the maximum estimates of the possible magnetic fields on hot jupiters ( up to a tenth of the magnetic moment of jupiter  @xcite ) , the radius of the magnetosphere lies within the roche lobe , so that the influence of the planet s magnetic field on the dynamics of outer parts of the envelope is negligible .",
    "we used a modification of the computational code of  @xcite , based on the solution of a system of gas - dynamical equations , for our new computations .",
    "we specified the characteristics of the plasma incident on the exoplanet based on the parameters of solar cmes measured at the earth s orbit  @xcite .",
    "further , we assumed that the relative variations of the parameters of the cme plasma at the orbit of the hot jupiter match with the same as at the earth , and occur at the same moments in time .",
    "the absolute values of the parameters were specified assuming that the parameters of the unperturbed wind correspond to the solar values at the orbit of the exoplanet .",
    "computations were carried out for both closed and quasi - closed exoplanet atmospheres .",
    "special attention was given to the variations in the mass - loss rate of the planetary atmosphere under the action of the cme .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section  [ sec : problem ] presents our formulation of the problem .",
    "section  [ sec : results ] presents the results of our gas - dynamical simulations , and section  [ sec : conclusion ] summarizes the main results of our study .",
    "we considered the exoplanet hd209458b as a typical hot jupiter .",
    "hd209458b is a transiting exoplanet with radius = 1.38  and mass = 0.69  orbiting a main - sequence g0v star at a distance of 0.04747au with an orbital period of 3.52472d .",
    "the parameters of its upper atmosphere ( temperature and density ) were specified from the range of values determined in  @xcite .",
    "we chose two sets of parameters for the computations , corresponding to solutions with closed ( but appreciably distorted by the gravitational influence of the star ) and quasi - closed atmospheres from  @xcite .",
    "in the first case , the temperature @xmath6 was taken to be @xmath7k and the particle density to be @xmath8 at photometric radius ; in the second case , @xmath9@xmath10 and @xmath11 .",
    "as in  @xcite , the parameters of the stationary wind for the star hd209458 were taken to be equal to those of the solar wind at the distance from the star corresponding to the orbit of the planet : @xmath12 , @xmath13 , and radial velocity @xmath14  @xcite . with these parameters ,",
    "the stellar - wind flow is subsonic , with mach number m=0.99 ; however , given the supersonic orbital motion of the planet ( m=1.4 ) , the total velocity of the planet relative to the stellar wind is appreciably supersonic , with mach number m=1.75 .",
    "the numerical model used to study the flow structure in the envelopes of hot jupiters is presented in  @xcite .",
    "we used a three - dimensional system of equations for the gravitational gas dynamics to describe the envelope , closed by the equation of state of an ideal , neutral , monatonic gas .",
    "we assumed that the force field is described by a roche potential , the rotation of the planet is synchronized with its orbital motion , and the planet has no magnetic field .",
    "we carried out the computations using a roe  osher tvd scheme with the entropy correction of einfeldt ( see , e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the coordinate system used has its origin at the center of the star , the @xmath15 axis directed along the line joining the centers of the star and planet , the @xmath16 axis is perpendicular to the orbital plane , and the @xmath17 axis directed to make the coordinate system right - handed .",
    "the computations were performed on an exponentially stretched rectangular grid with @xmath18 cells in @xmath15 , @xmath17 , and @xmath16 , with the size of the computational domain covering @xmath19 .",
    "the mass - loss rate from the planetary envelope was computed as the difference between the fluxes of matter leaving and entering the system ( in a parallelepiped specified along the @xmath15 , @xmath17 , and @xmath16 axes and containing the gaseous envelope ) .",
    "the results of the computations for the case of a stationary stellar wind for closed and quasi - closed envelopes are presented in figs .  1 and  2 .",
    "these figures present the distribution of the density and velocity vectors in the orbital plane of the system .",
    "analysis of the overall morphology of the flow indicates that , even for the case of a closed envelope ( fig .  1 ) , with the adopted set of parameters , the atmosphere begins to become aspherical due to the gravitational influence of the star .",
    "two small bulges directed toward the points 1 and 2 form , leading to appreciable distortion of the shape of the shock compared to the solution obtained for an essentially spherical atmosphere ( see , e.g. ,  @xcite ) .",
    "the formation of an envelope that appreciably resembles a roche lobe shape is observed in the system , however the outflow of matter from the atmosphere remains modest , at a level of @xmath20 .",
    "figure  2 depicts the main elements of the flow for the case of a quasi - closed envelope . in this solution , a powerful stream from the vicinity of 1 forms in the direction toward the star , as well as a less intense but significant outflow from the vicinity of 2 away from the star . in this solution ,",
    "the stream of matter from 1 is stopped by the dynamical pressure of the stellar wind at a distance of several times from the exoplanet .",
    "the forming envelope has a complex shape , where , in addition to the atmosphere itself , two bulges associated with the flow toward 1 and 2 can clearly be seen . the supersonic motion of the planet in the gas of the stellar wind leads to the formation of a system of two outgoing shocks .",
    "the hocp of the first shock is located ahead of the flow of matter from 1 , and the hocp of the second shock ahead of the spherical part of the atmosphere . with the adopted parameters for the stationary stellar wind ,",
    "the total mass - loss rate is approximately @xmath21 .    to investigate the influence of a cme on the flow structure in the gaseous envelope of a hot jupiter",
    ", we must determine the time variations of the stellar - wind parameters during the passage of the cme and use these as time - dependent boundary conditions .",
    "we used measured parameters of the solar wind at the earth s orbit obtained with various spacecraft ( ace , wind , soho ) during a cme on may 14 , 1998  @xcite .",
    "since it is not possible to obtain measurements at a distance corresponding to the orbit of a hot jupiter , we assumed that the relative variations of the wind parameters during the cme were the same as those at the earth s orbit , and occur at the same times .",
    "d.  v.  bisikalo , p.  v.  kaygorodov , d.  e.  ionov , and v.  i.  shematovich , in _ characterizing stellar and exoplanetary environments _ , ed .",
    "by h. lammer and m. khodachenko , astrophys .",
    "space sci . lib . * 411 * , 81 ( 2015 ) .",
    "w.  m.  farrell , j.  s.  halekas , r.  m.  killen , g.  t.  delory , n. gross , l.  v.  bleacher , d.  krauss - varben , p.  travnicek , d.  hurley , t.  j.  stubbs , m.  i.  zimmerman , and t.  l.  jackson , j.  geophys .",
    "117 * , e00k04 ( 2012 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the results of three - dimensional numerical simulations of the gas dynamics of the atmosphere of a `` hot jupiter '' exoplanet during the passage of a coronal mass ejection ( cme ) from the central star are presented . </S>",
    "<S> these computations assumed the parameters for the stellar wind and the cme to be typical of the solar values . </S>",
    "<S> the characteristic variations of the flow pattern are considered for quasi - closed and closed ( but appreciably distorted by the gravitational influence of the star ) gaseous envelopes of the exoplanet . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that a typical cme is sufficient to tear off the outer part of an asymmetric envelope that is located beyond the roche lobe and carry it away from the exoplanet . </S>",
    "<S> this leads to a substantial increase in the mass - loss rate from the exoplanet envelope during the passage of cmes . </S>",
    "<S> the mass - loss rate grows by about a factor of 11 for a closed envelope , and by about a factor of 14 for a quasi - closed envelope . </S>",
    "<S> possible evolutionary consequences of the loss of part of the atmosphere during the passage of cmes are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}