{
  "article_text": [
    "modern optical magnetometers@xcite enable the detection of magnetic fields with a sensitivity reaching or even exceeding 1  ft / hz@xmath1 .",
    "yet , the magnetometers are not sensitive to magnetic field _ per se _ but rather to its effect on energies of light - coupled magnetic sublevels . with this respect ,",
    "optical magnetometers are intrinsically sensitive to any spin couplings , including exotic ones .",
    "this underlies the foundations for searches for physics beyond the standard model and formed the basis for many experiments over the last several decades ( see , for example , ref .   and reference therein ) .",
    "despite the high sensitivities of the experiments searching for physics beyond the standard model , all the experiments have provided null results.@xcite this has falsified several theoretical models , leading to their redefinition . however , to reach the precision , long - time averaging of the detected signals is required .",
    "this brings an important question : _ what if the sought couplings ( signals ) are of time dependent ( oscillatory or transient ) character ?",
    "_ obviously , in such a case , the averaging would lead to deterioration of the signal of interest rather than increase of a signal - to - noise ratio .    over the last years",
    ", several theoretical models postulating the existence of time - dependent exotic spin couplings have been proposed .",
    "such couplings would either lead to oscillating signals , e.g. , due to oscillating electric dipole moment@xcite or dark - matter couplings,@xcite or to transient signals , e.g. , due to a passage through a topological defect ( e.g. , domain wall ) of an exotic field@xcite or interaction with a jet of exotic particles.@xcite detection of oscillating couplings requires new experiments , which are currently under construction in mainz , germany and boston , usa ( cosmic axion spin precession experiment)@xcite and stanford , usa ( dark - matter radio).@xcite similarly , the transient signals will be investigated with a global network of optical magnetometers for exotic physics ( gnome),@xcite described here .",
    "gnome is a network of synchronized optical magnetometers separated by a distance of hundreds or even thousands of kilometers .",
    "each magnetometer is characterized with a femtotesla sensitivity and operates in a magnetically shielded , precisely controlled magnetic environment .",
    "in such a measurement , the magnetometer readouts are principally static , but the nature of the measurements burdens the signals with noise .",
    "the spectral characteristics of the noise may be quite complex , with frequency - independent ( e.g. , due to photon shot noise ) , @xmath2 ( e.g. , due to vibrations ) , and band ( e.g. , due to ac lines ) components .",
    "additionally , infrequent spikes ( in the time domain ) can be observed in the signals .",
    "the nature of this noise is particularly hard to identify and eliminate , making untriggered transient signals difficult to investigate .    despite the complexity of the magnetometer readouts ,",
    "the observed noise is typically local and hence the readouts of even same - type devices are characterized with different dependence .",
    "particularly , it is unlikely to observe correlated transient signals in two or more magnetometers triggered by uncorrelated ( local ) events .",
    "in such a case , correlation measurements provide information about global transient disturbances .",
    "the source of these disturbances may be magnetic ( due to the earth - magnetic - field change and imperfections of magnetic shieldings ) but such cases may be falsified with proper vetoing techniques ( e.g. , via correlating the signals with readouts of outside - of - the - shield sensors ) , leaving the system sensitive to global disturbances of nonmagnetic origins .    from the point of view of the network operation , precise timing of the signal acquisition",
    "is of crucial importance . in gnome ,",
    "the timing is provided by the global positioning system ( gps ) , which offers a time precision better than 100  ns . at the same time",
    ", the global spread of the magnetometers loosens requirements for sampling rate as even light - speed - propagating perturbations require several to several tens of milliseconds to transit between different stations . to meet these requirements ,",
    "the gnome collaboration developed a data - acquisition system , offering the ability to multi - channel data acquisition with up to 1  ks / s sampling rate and sub - microsecond time accuracy .",
    "the systems are now installed in all gnome stations to acquire synchronously the magnetometer readouts .    from the point of view of foreseen measurements , correlation of signals with the same spectral characteristics",
    "is essential . to meet this requirement",
    ", the magnetometer signals need to be standardized .",
    "this is achieved by the so - called whitening procedure , which consists of normalizing the signals by an exponentially weighted signal history.@xcite this procedure produces a gaussian distributed , zero - mean and unity variance data stream , which can be reliably correlated ( each magnetometer contributes at the same level to the correlation signals ) .",
    "the current gnome consists of 5 stations situated in 4 countries ( germany , poland , switzerland , and the us ) .",
    "several other stations are under construction . in the existing arrangement ,",
    "the network performed a 24-hour trial run in march 2016 .",
    "the signals from all magnetometers were stored and transmitted to the main server ( mainz , germany ) , where they were processed .",
    "the spectrogram of a sample time series detected with the krakw magnetometer is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : data](a ) ( top panel ) .",
    "similarly to signals of all other magnetometers ( not shown ) , the data reveals strong @xmath2-noise but also two strong modulation components at 1  hz ( slowly drifting @xmath3  hz ) and 12  hz ( stable over time ) . as shown in bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : data](a ) , @xmath2-noise and the modulation components are strongly suppressed with the whitening procedure ; the whole noise amplitude span was reduced by about 5 orders of magnitude leaving a detectable , yet strongly reduced trace only at 1  hz .",
    "whitening procedure enables the identification of transient events , manifesting as local maxima in the time - frequency spectrogram .",
    "however , from the point of view of gnome operation , correlation measurements are of crucial importance .",
    "thus , the correlations of two hour - long time series of krakw and berkeley magnetometers [ fig .",
    "[ fig : data](b ) ] are presented . to perform reliable analysis",
    ", we first estimated the background by correlating time series separated by several tens of minutes , where there are no correlations .",
    "this enables identification of a false positive - event rate ( solid line ) .",
    "then , we correlated the signals with no time offset , i.e. , a specific case for which the correlations could be observed ( gray points ) .",
    "for such a case , several tens of events were identified , all consistent with the false - positive background .",
    "this result presents the ability to identify correlation between the stations but also demonstrates the necessity of improving performance of the magnetometers and developing more sophisticated ( multi - station ) correlation algorithms .    ]",
    "the results of the trail run demonstrated the ability to identify transient events in signals of two magnetometers . currently , the network magnetometers are being optimized to reach sensitivity of roughly 10  ft / hz@xmath1 and bandwidth of @xmath4  hz and 24/7 operation .",
    "the start of a multi - month run is planned at the end of 2016 .",
    "this will enable a search for axion - like - field domain structure , exotic field bursts , and exotic coherent oscillations .",
    "however , the universality of the network makes it a unique tool for testing theories beyond the standard model .",
    "the author acknowledges support from the polish ministry of science and higher education within the iuventus plus program ( grant 0390/ip3/2015/73 ) .",
    "d. f. jackson kimball and s. k. lamoreux and t. e. chupp _ tests of fundamental physics with optical magnetometers _ in _ optical magnetometry _ , d. budker and d. f. jackson kimball eds . cambridge university press , cambridge , 2013 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this letter , we describe a novel scheme for searching for physics beyond the standard model . </S>",
    "<S> the idea is based on correlation of time - synchronized readouts of distant ( @xmath0100  km ) optical magnetometers . </S>",
    "<S> such an approach limits hard - to - identify local transient noise , providing the system with unique capabilities of identification of global transient events . </S>",
    "<S> careful analysis of the signal can reveal the nature of the events ( e.g. , its nonmagnetic origin ) , which opens avenues for new class of exotic - physics searches ( searches for global transient exotic spin couplings ) and tests of yet unverified theoretical models . </S>"
  ]
}