{
  "article_text": [
    "the isotropy of the cmb suggests that the universe is isotropic on very large scales ( of order 100@xmath0mpc ) , but we observe cosmic structures such as voids and superclusters in the local universe .",
    "one then wonders where the transition between these two states occurs .",
    "while we have data on very large scales and also in our neighbourhood , we still require further data on the intermediate scales .",
    "this is where type ia supernovae ( sne ia ) could come useful .",
    "the search for a possible preferred axis , and hence anisotropy , in the cosmos has more critical motivations than to just look for a transition scale .",
    "these are related to problems with the standard model which involve the possible existence of a preferred direction .",
    "these are as follows :    * _ large scale velocity flows _ : the scale of large scale ( of order @xmath1mpc or larger ) bulk flows is observed to be greater than what is expected in the standard @xmath2cdm cosmology @xcite . * _ the alignment of the cmb power spectrum low multipoles _ : the directions of the normals to planes of the octopole and quadrupole moments and the dipole moments in the observed cmb map @xcite . *",
    "_ large scale alignment of quasar optical polarisation data _ : it turns out that the quasar polarisation vectors point towards a common direction in the sky @xcite .",
    "if there is indeed anisotropy discovered in the universe which is trustable and not due to systematic effects , various proposed physical effects could be responsible for such a signal .",
    "first and foremost the founding assumption upon which the standard cosmological paradigm is constructed would not hold any longer .",
    "another possibility would be a dark energy with an anisotropic equation of state @xcite .    in using sne ia as our anisotropy probe",
    ", there could occur various events which could disguise as anisotropy signals .",
    "such these effects are the following @xcite : the intrinsic scatter of the sne ia ( due to them not being perfect standard candles ) , scatter due to the location of the sne ia within the host galaxy and the type of the galaxy , extinction due to dust in the host galaxy , intergalactic medium and our own galaxy and finally , gravitational lensing along the line of sight to the sne ia , which could alter the light coming from the source .",
    "but since most of the effects mentioned happen on the galactic scale they will be averaged out in a statistically large enough sample .",
    "let us now take a brief look at what works have been done on the subject of anisotropy search using sne ia so far .",
    "various methods have been employed over the years for investigating possible anisotropies in the universe at varying scales .",
    "these are either model independent searches or ones assuming certain anisotropic models .",
    "for instance , alnes & amarzguioui @xcite , jain et al.@xcite and cai et al .",
    "@xcite proposed anisotropic models which did not stand the test against sne ia data sets they used in their tests .",
    "furthermore , some authors attempted to relate the possible observed anisotropies to anisotropic dark energy models @xcite@xcite@xcite . currently available data however was not able to either prove or disproves these theories .",
    "in another work in the realm of non - standard anisotropic models , campanelli et al . in @xcite were able to show that e.g. bianchi i models are permissible by current data .    with regards to the model",
    "independent approaches , many works employ the hemisphere comparison method , like , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "all of these works find low significance anisotropies , which are mostly attributed to systematic effects and low numbers of sne ia .",
    "colin et al . in @xcite , also adopt a model independent approach and they find the source of the local peculiar motion to be due to the gravitational pull of the shapley supercluster .",
    "furthermore , their results also suggest that this bulk flow does not decay beyond this supercluster and continues to higher redshifts , @xmath3 . in the end",
    "they find that for @xmath4 the sne ia data are not consistent with the @xmath2cdm model while this conflict goes away for sne ia with @xmath5 .",
    "but since the error of the high redshift distance data increases and also the sky coverage of these decreases , other anisotropic cosmological models could also fit such data .",
    "what is claimed in the works by tsagas @xcite is that establishing a dipole in the sne ia data could have quite important consequences regarding the issue of the current acceleration of the universe .",
    "large scale peculiar velocities known as ` dark flows ' , which are found to exceed the predictions of the standard paradigm , could serve as the factor causing the apparent acceleration of the universe .",
    "that is , if the affected area is large enough , one might mistake the large scale peculiar motions for the acceleration of the whole universe and hence do away with the inclusion of dark energy in the standard model as the element that drives the acceleration .",
    "if this scenario is indeed the correct one , we should observe some degree of dipolar anisotropy in the sne ia data , which is found in many of the previous works @xcite@xcite@xcite .    as one of the earliest works on this subject , kolatt & lahav ( 2001 ) in @xcite",
    "calculate the power spectrum of fluctuations in fitted cosmological parameters in different directions using the sne ia data of the supernova cosmology project ( scp ) @xcite and the high - z supernova search team @xcite . using these power spectra",
    "they show that the dipole moment could in fact be realised as a true feature in the sne ia data .",
    "they then investigate the dipole direction and find no statistically significant signal in the data of their time for redshifts of up to @xmath6 , and hence conclude that there is no sign of anisotropy in the universe up to @xmath6 . a recent work by javanmardi et al .",
    "@xcite , makes use of the same technique and applies it to a recent sne ia data set and they also find no statistically significant anisotropy .",
    "furthermore , a few other recent works consider the same technique of employing the power spectrum calculation method .",
    "for instance , in the study by zhao et al.@xcite , the lowest possible resolution for the sky map is used due to the scarcity of the sne ia data .",
    "this means only the lowest multipole , namely the dipole is investigated . and",
    "they find a dipole modulation which is perpendicular in direction to the cmb kinematic dipole .",
    "bengaly et al . in @xcite",
    "consider only the low - redshift regime in order for their analysis to be model independent .",
    "making use of the two most recent sne ia data sets available namely the union2.1 and the joint - likelihood - analysis ( jla ) data sets they calculate the power spectra of @xmath7 and @xmath8 maps .",
    "they conclude that for the jla data set the dipole anisotropy found correlates with the anisotropic distribution of sne ia in the sky but for union2.1 this correlation is small .",
    "rather the direction found using the union2.1 data set coincides with that of the bulk flow .",
    "therefore , they can not discard the possibility of the existence of a genuine anisotropy in the recent universe .    another interesting piece of work involving power spectrum calculation using sne ia is recently done by carvalho et al .",
    "similar to @xcite , carvalho et al .",
    "use the jla data set to calculate the power spectra of the parameters , @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath7 on which the luminosity distance d epends .",
    "expectedly what they find is that the error bars are too large to indicate any sign of possible anisotropies .",
    "all of the power spectrum investigations mentioned above utilise the sn ia data sets only .",
    "we too use the data but as we will see in this paper , ( and as has been shown by other authors mentioned above ) , the current data sets are too scarce to be able to tell us anything regarding the isotropy or lack thereof in the redshift range covered by the sne ia .",
    "we therefore also involve simulations in our work . as we discuss in detail later on in the results section  vi , we would like to try to determine a threshold value for the amplitude of a possible dipole anisotropy seeable by future supernova surveys such as the lsst@xcite .",
    "the paper is organised as follows . in ",
    "ii we describe the methods we employed in our investigations and analyses . in ",
    "iii we discuss the statistical errors to be considered in our study . in ",
    "iv we introduce the observational data we made use of in our work . in ",
    "v we talk about our simulations which forms the heart of our work . in ",
    "vi we present our results and lastly in ",
    "vii we shall conclude .",
    "in this section the method used in our search for finding possible anisotropies in the universe is explained .",
    "as we mentioned briefly in the introduction , our method is that of power spectrum calculation . in this method",
    ", we simply target every supernova in turn and calculate their theoretical distance moduli to compare with their observed values . the distance modulus is given as :    @xmath11    where @xmath12 is the luminosity distance in mpc given in the standard cosmological model ( @xmath2cdm ) by :    @xmath13    where the integral is from now @xmath14 to the redshift of the object , @xmath15 , @xmath16 is the speed of light , @xmath17 and @xmath10 are the matter and cosmological constant density parameters and @xmath7 is the hubble parameter of expansion .",
    "note that we have assumed a flat universe with zero curvature .",
    "now with the theoretical calculation done we can build a field of distance modulus residuals , @xmath18 , of the differences between our model predicted distance moduli , @xmath19 and the observed ones , @xmath20 :    @xmath21    we take as our fiducial model , the standard @xmath2cdm model with the parameters taken from the latest sne ia data @xcite to be consistent in our supernova investigation . assuming a flat universe , we take the matter density parameter to be @xmath22 and we fix the hubble constant value at , @xmath23 .    the residual field created is now expanded in spherical harmonics :    @xmath24    and the power spectrum is given as : @xmath25    we then build sky maps of our residual fields and utilise the publicly available ` polspice ` @xcite software package to calculate the corresponding power spectra . all the power spectra shown in this paper are calculated using the ` polspice ` package",
    "in general there is a collection of systematic and statistical errors which we need to consider in order to be able to identify the true power spectra very accurately . here though we only consider the most important ones related to our work being the observed error on distance moduli propagated onto the the corresponding power spectra and also the statistical error on the simulation power spectra .",
    "these error sources are explained in this section .      in order to determine the error bars on the power spectrum of the data caused by the uncertainty in observing the sne ia we did the following : for every supernova we assumed a gaussian distribution with the mean of the observed distance modulus , @xmath20 , and the standard deviation of the observed uncertainty , @xmath26 . by taking random values for distance moduli , @xmath27 , out of every gaussian distribution we built up 1000 mock data sets . the residual field for every set would then take the form :    @xmath28    where as before , @xmath19 , is the model predicted value for the distance moduli .",
    "with the residual fields created we calculated the corresponding power spectra and averaged over them to obtain error bars on the data power spectrum .",
    "it is needless to say that any real signal to be detected should surpass these error bars and this way we can eliminate possible fake anisotropies .",
    "there is also the statistical error which is meaningful in the case of simulations talked about in  v. in the case of simulations , the power spectra presented are ensemble averages of many realisations of respective maps together with their associated error bars .",
    "we utilise the union2.1 sne ia data set @xcite in our study .",
    "the 580 supernovae in this data set span a redshift range of @xmath29 and the sky distribution of this data set is shown in fig.[u21 ] .",
    "since we would like to investigate possible anisotropy of cosmological nature rather than of local origins we should in principle employ the supernovae with redshifts greater than about @xmath30 .",
    "but as we will see in  vi this will not affect our result in this project .        as we shall demonstrate in  vi",
    ", since we would only like to show that the distinction between isotropy and anisotropy is not possible with the order of number of supernovae currently available to us , it would suffice for us to make use of the union2.1 data set as opposed to the most recent sne ia data set of the jla @xcite .",
    "this new data set contains some 200 more supernovae than the union2.1 data set which makes no difference in our conclusions .",
    "the lsst @xcite will bring about a vast number of sne ia in its 10 years of operation .",
    "it is estimated that about 50,000 supernovae per year will be observed using this 6.5 wide telescope after one year of observing .",
    "the supernovae range in redshift from 0.1 to 1 and as talked about earlier in  iv we do not consider supernovae with redshifts smaller than 0.2 for our cosmological study .    as mentioned previously",
    ", we would like to find a threshold value for the amplitude of a possible dipole anisotropy which would be seen by the lsst .",
    "for this we constructed two types of simulations ; isotropic and anisotropic . starting firstly with isotropic simulations , we increased the number of supernovae reaching approximately the lsst one - year goal .",
    "we then introduce a synthesized anisotropy in the isotropic simulations in the form of a dipole . playing around with the amplitude of the dipole",
    ", we then determined a threshold value for the dipole anisotropy discernible by the lsst .",
    "more precisely , we filled in the 49152 pixels , corresponding to a healpix resolution parameter , @xmath31 , of 64 with random distance moduli .",
    "that is we generated random redshifts from a distribution mimicking that of the lsst and calculated model predicted values for the distance moduli .",
    "then for each pixel we took random distance moduli out of gaussian distributions with means of model predicted values and standard deviations taken randomly out of a gaussian distribution constructed from the reported observed uncertainty values of current data sets as a rough estimate ; the lsst observation errors will surely be smaller than today s values",
    ".    regarding the anisotropic simulations , we considered modulating the luminosity distance .",
    "this therefore results in a dipole modulation which shows itself in the distance modulus as :    @xmath32    where , @xmath33 , is the modulated distance modulus , @xmath19 , is the model predicted distance modulus , @xmath34 , is the amplitude of the dipole anisotropy and @xmath35 is the angle between every pixel s direction and an arbitrarily chosen direction of modulation .",
    "we now display and discuss the results we obtained in this section .",
    "let us start with the result of the power spectrum analysis in light of the union2.1 data set which is shown in fig.[data ] .",
    "in this figure , as annotated in the legend , we can see the power spectrum of the data together with its error bars which come from observation uncertainties of supernovae distance moduli and the power spectrum of an isotropic distribution of the same number of supernovae as in the union2.1 data set .",
    "the power spectrum of the isotropic simulation is obtained by averaging over 100 simulation power spectra and the error bars on the data power spectrum have been obtained using the procedure described in ",
    "what is clear from fig.[data ] is the dwarfing error bars of the isotropic simulation power spectrum in comparison with those of the data power spectrum .",
    "this shows that using the sne ia data available today , one is not able to identify any possible departure from isotropy in the universe . and hence , using the power spectrum analysis no anisotropy is evident in the current union2.1 supernova data .",
    "we would now like to look for the smallest amplitude for a dipole anisotropy that could be observed by the lsst after about one year of of its operation .",
    "that is with approximately 50,000 supernovae observed . as laid out in  v we add in a dipole anisotropy in our otherwise isotropic simulations and investigate whether the simulated dipole would be discernible using the power spectrum calculation method .    in order to do this , as talked about in ",
    "v , we filled up our map of 49152 pixels with an isotropic distribution of distance moduli in the redshift range of @xmath36 .",
    "we used a flat distribution for the redshifts in the range mentioned since it is expected that the lsst will discover sne ia with approximately the same probability in this range .",
    "we then add in our dipole modulation in an arbitrary direction .",
    "we play around with the amplitude of the dipole anisotropy amplitude until we find the smallest value for which the anisotropic power spectrum can be distinguished from the isotropic power spectrum .",
    "pictorially , what we expect to find is that the error bars on the two power spectra separate at @xmath37 . a schematic view of this is shown in fig .",
    "[ f3 ] , where the isotropic simulation power spectrum is compared against an anisotropic simulation power spectrum with 49,152 supernovae , corresponding to one supernova in each pixel of a healpix map with @xmath38 of 64 , and a dipole amplitude of 0.003 .    .",
    "]    in order to see the effect of increasing the number of the sne ia on the detecting threshold of the dipole amplitude , we plotted these two quantities against each other .",
    "fig.[curve ] shows this plot .",
    "as expected , the detectable dipole amplitude reduces in size as the number of supernovae increases to reach the first year goal of the lsst .    as it was mentioned before in ",
    "v , we made use of the error estimates of the current data sets ( specifically the union2.1 data set ) , in our simulations .",
    "we could now reduce this estimate by @xmath39 , being the lsst prediction for the decrease in the sne ia error estimates , to see how our predictions for the dipole amplitudes change .",
    "we expect the curve in fig.[curve ] to lower down if we use smaller error bars and this is exactly what takes place .",
    "we illustrate this change in fig.[curve ] as well .",
    "decrease in supernovae error estimates as predicted by the lsst ( dashed / red curve ) . ]",
    "in this paper we have studied the method of power spectrum calculation in order for identifying possible anisotropies in the universe .",
    "we have shown that today s data are far too scarce to show any possible departure from isotropy using this method .",
    "we therefore considered simulating the future more abundant sne ia data of the lsst and showed that the power spectrum method will indeed be able to differentiate between an isotropic universe and one with specifically a dipole anisotropy as we investigated .",
    "we considered the results that could be obtained with the first year data of the lsst which would be about 50,000 sne ia .",
    "we calculated threshold values for possible dipole anisotropies that could be seen using this method for increasing numbers of sne ia .",
    "as would be expected , such a dipole amplitude decreased as the number of observed sne ia increased .",
    "furthermore , we considered the error estimates predicted by the lsst and calculated the dipole amplitude threshold for this prediction as well .    in this work we considered only the lowest possible moment of anisotropy .",
    "but of course as the sne ia data sets increase in size and accuracy of observations , possible anisotropies in higher multipole moments i.e. at smaller angular scales could also be resolved in principle .",
    "the authors would like to acknowledge amir hajian for all his unassuming help and guidance .",
    "we also benefited from illuminating discussions with dr jan hamann greatly .",
    "furthermore , we would like to thank dr eric hivon for all his help with our power spectrum calculations .",
    "this research was partly funded by a postdoctoral grant from islamic republic of iran s national elites foundation .",
    "r. watkins , h. a. feldman and m. j. hudson , mon . not .",
    ". soc . * 392 * 743 ( 2009 ) .",
    "h. k. eriksen , f. k. hansen , a. j. banday , k. m. gorski and p. b. lilje , astrophys .",
    "j. * 605 * 14 ( 2004 ) .",
    "d. hutsemekers , r. cabanac , h. lamy and d. sluse , astron .",
    "astrophys . * 441 * 915 ( 2005 ) .",
    "t. s. kolatt and o. lahav , mon . not .",
    ". soc . * 323 * , 859 ( 2001 ) .",
    "b. javanmardi , c. porciani , p. kroupa and j. pflamm - altenburg , astrophys .",
    "j. * 810 * 47 ( 2015 ) .",
    "t. koivisto and d. f. mota , jcap * 0806 * , 018 ( 2008 ) .",
    "s. perlmutter , astrophys .",
    "j. * 527 * , 565 ( 1999 ) .",
    "a. g. riess , astron .",
    "j. * 116 * , 1009 ( 1998 ) .",
    "h. alnes and m. amarzguioui , phys .",
    "d * 75 * , 023506 ( 2007 ) .",
    "p. jain , m. s. modgil and j. p.",
    "ralston , mod .",
    "a * 22 * , 1153 ( 2007 ) .",
    "rong - gen cai , yin - zhe ma , bo tang and zhong - liang tuo , phys .",
    "d * 87 * , 123522 ( 2013 ) .",
    "t. koivisto and d. f. mota , astrophys .",
    "j. * 679 * , 1 ( 2008 ) .",
    "m. blomqvist , e. mortsell and s. nobili , jcap * 0806 * , 027 ( 2008 ) .",
    "m. blomqvist , j. enander and e. mortsell , jcap * 10 * , 018 ( 2010 ) .",
    "l. campanelli , p. cea , g. l. fogli and a. marrone , phys rev .",
    "d * 83 * , 103503 ( 2011 ) .",
    "i. antoniou and l. perivolaropoulos , jcap * 1012 * , 012 ( 2010 ) .",
    "rong - gen cai and zhong - liang tuo , jcap * 1202 * , 004 ( 2012 ) .",
    "d. j. schwarz and b. weinhorst , astron .",
    "astrophys . * 474 * , 717 ( 2007 ) .",
    "b. kalus , d. j. schwarz , m. seikel and a. wiegand , astron . astrophys . * 553 * , a56 ( 2013 ) .",
    "j. colin , r. mohayaee , s. sarkar and a. shafieloo . mon . not .",
    ". soc . * 414 * , 264 ( 2011 ) . c. g. tsagas , mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "* 405 * , 503 ( 2010 ) ; phys .",
    "d * 84 * , 063503 ( 2011 ) ; mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "* 426 * , l36 ( 2012 ) .",
    "w. zhao , p. x. wu and y. zhang , int .",
    "d * 22 * , 1350060 ( 2013 ) .",
    "c. a. p. bengaly , a. bernui and j. s. alcaniz , astrophys . j. * 808 * , 39 ( 2015 ) . c. s. carvalho and k. marques , astron .",
    "astrophys . * 592 * , a102 ( 2016 ) .",
    "m. betoule _",
    "et al . _ ,",
    ". astrophys . * 568 * , a22 ( 2014 ) .",
    "g. chon , a. challinor , s. prunet , e. hivon and i. szapudi , mon . not .",
    "r. astron .",
    "* 350 * , 914 ( 2004 ) . n. suzuki _",
    "et al . _ , astrophys . j. * 746 * , 85 ( 2012 ) .",
    "_ ( lsst science collaboration ) , ` arxiv:09120201 ` ( 2009 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we contribute another anisotropy study to this field of research using supernovae type ia ( sne ia ) . in this work , </S>",
    "<S> we utilise the power spectrum calculation method and apply it to both the current sne ia data and simulation . </S>",
    "<S> our simulations are constructed with the characteristics of the upcoming survey of the large synoptic survey telescope ( lsst ) , which shall bring us the largest sne ia collection to date . </S>",
    "<S> we make predictions for the amplitude of a possible dipole anisotropy or anisotropy in higher multipole moments that would be detectable by the lsst . </S>"
  ]
}