{
  "article_text": [
    "classical clustering algorithms are mainly based on inter - point distances ( e.g. , hierarchical clustering ) or on partitioning the space around a pre - fixed number of central points ( these are usually called partitioning methods , and include @xmath0-means clustering , for instance ) . in the recent times , however , there is a growing body of researchers that advocate that ",
    "density needs to be incorporated in the clustering procedures \" @xcite .",
    "two very different density - based approaches to clustering are mixture model clustering @xcite and clustering based on high density regions @xcite .",
    "the former , in a parametric context , starts by modeling the distribution density @xmath1 as a mixture of densities in a pre - specified parametric family , that is , @xmath2 where the mixing weights @xmath3 are such that @xmath4 and the density components @xmath5 can be written as @xmath6 for a fixed parametric distribution @xmath7 and different parameter values @xmath8 .",
    "if this mixture model is identifiable , it seems natural to associate different clusters to each of the distribution components . in practice ,",
    "a density estimate @xmath9 within this model is obtained by estimating the parameters and mixing weights by maximum likelihood , and selecting the number of components using the bayesian information criterion ( bic ) ( again , details can be found in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , leading to @xmath10 .",
    "then , through bayes theorem , any point @xmath11 in the space can be assigned to the component that makes it more probable by looking at the value of @xmath12 that maximizes @xmath13 .",
    "the principles of clustering based on high density regions are quite different . in this context",
    ", clusters are understood as regions of tight concentration of probability mass , separated by each other by regions where the probability mass is more dispersed .",
    "there are two ways to formalize this .",
    "@xcite proposed to focus on the region where the density is above some pre - specified level ( density level sets ) and defined clusters as the connected components of this region .",
    "this clearly captures the notion of a high density region ( the density must be above some level ) separated by regions of lower density ( this happens where the region consists of more than one connected component ) .",
    "the main disadvantages of this definition are : first , since it concerns the region where the density is above some level , it may leave a substantial number of points with no cluster assigned ; second , the whole cluster structure of the distribution may not be noticeable at a fixed , single level ( see , for instance , figure 1 in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; and third , the obtention of the connected components of a density level set is not a computationally easy task ( see @xcite , or @xcite ) .",
    "the first and second issues can be amended by considering the cluster tree @xcite , which represents how the density level clusters evolve as the level varies ( in a close connection to persistent homology techniques , see @xcite ) .",
    "this solution , unfortunately , emphasizes the aforementioned computational issue , since the construction of the cluster tree involves computing the connected components of not just one , but several density level sets .",
    "an alternative formalization of high density clusters is through morse theory tools .",
    "clusters are defined as the domains of attraction of the density modes ; i.e. , a cluster is made of all the points that are eventually taken to a given local maximum of the density , when moved through the flow line defined by the density gradient field @xcite .",
    "having the clusters closely connected to the density modes , this approach is commonly known as modal clustering .",
    "it is related to , but different from the notion based on the connected components of density level sets , and avoids the above noted drawbacks of the latter .",
    "this definition results in a partition of the whole space into clusters , provided the density is sufficiently regular , with the boundaries of the partition components made of density valleys ( regions of lower density ) , it does not require the choice of a level parameter and it is computationally tractable though the adaptation of numerical optimization methods to this setting , such as the mean shift algorithm @xcite , a variant of the gradient ascent algorithm for function maximization .",
    "any of the two high density clustering approaches is described above in population terms , that is , in terms of the true density @xmath1 .",
    "if a @xmath14-variate sample @xmath15 from @xmath1 is given , then empirical , data - based clusters are obtained by replacing the unknown underlying density by a density estimate @xmath9 . since no parametric model is assumed in this setting , it is common to adopt a nonparametric viewpoint here and use a kernel density estimator @xmath16 , where the kernel @xmath0 is a unimodal , radially symmetric density , the bandwidth @xmath17 is a positive number and the notation @xmath18 represents the scaled kernel .",
    "this paper explores a new methodology that arises as a blend of the two previous density - based clustering schemes .",
    "there are two possibilities for this blending . as a first option , noting that the kernel density estimator is a mixture density itself , one could try to apply mixture model clustering to such particular mixture density estimator",
    ". however , this makes little sense , since following the principles of mixture model clustering would lead us to declare that each of the @xmath19  mixture components \" @xmath20 forms a separate cluster , which besides contains a single data point ( @xmath21 ) .",
    "the second possibility , the other way round , involves applying the modal clustering methodology when the density estimate is obtained as the result of fitting a mixture model to the data , and indeed this makes perfect sense .",
    "so , the main goal of this paper is to illustrate how the principles of modal clustering can be combined with mixture modeling . a related recent paper by @xcite precisely shows how this can be done when high density clusters are understood as connected components of density level sets . here , on the contrary",
    ", we focus on the notion of high density clusters as domains of attraction of the density modes , expanding on some ideas previously presented in @xcite . even if the two methodologies lead to very similar results in practice , the main advantage of the latter is that it is much simpler from a computational point of view , especially for high dimensional data .",
    "the rest of the paper is organized as follows . in section 2 , both approaches , mixture model clustering and modal clustering , are compared to each other , and the pros and the cons of the two methodologies are exemplified through the analysis of synthetic and real data sets . in section 3 ,",
    "two methods are introduced with the aim of producing a clustering from a modal point of view , but starting from a mixture model fit .",
    "both methods rely on the use of the mean shift algorithm for normal mixture densities , and a new representation of this algorithm as a quasi - newton optimization method is provided .",
    "section 4 includes two more synthetic examples that show that it is possible to get close to the population modal clustering even if the starting point is a mixture density estimate .",
    "the paper finishes with a discussion section , posing some related open problems for future research .",
    "in principle , mixture model clustering and modal clustering aim at very different goals .",
    "it is not that one of these views is right and the other one is wrong .",
    "they just seek after different notions of cluster . and in fact , the two clusterings look very similar in  non - problematic \" situations , that is , when different mixture components correspond to different , well - separated unimodal distributions . as an example , figure [ fig:0 ] shows a bivariate trimodal 3-component normal mixture density , with the population clusters depicted according to mixture model clustering ( left ) and modal clustering ( right ) .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     but despite @xmath22 normal components are needed to obtain a reasonably good mixture density estimate , the resulting density fit has only 5 modes .",
    "so the top right plot of figure [ fig:8 ] shows the resulting modal cluster after applying method 2 based on clustering the mixture density estimate from a modal point of view .",
    "the mosaic in the bottom left plot shows the clustering into 14 regions formed by assigning each point to its most likely component in the mixture density estimate , and finally the bottom right plot shows the result of merging the previous 14 regions into 5 modal clusters as a consequence of an application of method 1 .",
    "again , the final modal clusterings that the two methods yield are very similar , with method 1 being much faster ( only the 14 component means were used as initial points for the mean shift algorithm ) than method 2 , although the latter is somehow closer to the modal clustering philosophy .",
    "this paper illustrates how mixture modeling can be useful even if the final goal is to cluster the data according to a modal approach , instead of by mixture component assignment .",
    "two different proposals are introduced for this task : one based on merging mixture components ( method 1 ) and a second one which uses the mean shift algorithm on the fitted normal mixture density to find the domains of attraction of the estimated density modes ( method 2 ) .",
    "the issue of the convergence of the mean shift algorithm is still not a fully solved problem .",
    "@xcite points out the incompleteness of several existing convergence proofs . in this paper , a new representation of the mean shift algorithm for non - isotropic normal mixture densities",
    "is provided , which allows to cast it as a quasi - newton optimization method .",
    "this could be useful to address the convergence issue once again , since it could be tackled using the tools that are normally employed to study the convergence of such optimization methods ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* chapter 6 ) .    as another open problem ,",
    "even if @xcite showed that the mixture density estimator is consistent under mild assumptions , that does not guarantee that the number of modes of the mixture density estimator be a consistent estimator for the true number of density modes . or , looking further afield , it would be even better if it could be proved that the modal clustering that is obtained from the mixture density estimate ( using either method 1 or method 2 ) results in a consistent estimate of the true population modal clustering , in the sense indicated in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* section 4.3 ) .    finally , all the examples included here try to illustrate the proposed methods from a qualitative point of view .",
    "a more detailed and exhaustive simulation study , in the spirit of @xcite , could throw some light on the evaluation of these methods from a more quantitative perspective .",
    "* acknowledgments .",
    "* this paper was partly motivated by a question posed by professor jacinto martn ( universidad de extremadura ) .",
    "the author acknowledges the support of the spanish ministerio de economa y competitividad grant mtm2013 - 44045-p and the junta de extremadura grant gr15013 .",
    "arias - castro , e. , mason , d. and pelletier , b. ( 2016 ) on the estimation of the gradient lines of a density and the consistency of the mean - shift algorithm .",
    "_ journal of machine learning research _ , * 17 * , 128 .",
    "brinkman , r.r , gasparetto , m. , lee , s .- j.j .",
    ", ribickas , a.j .",
    ", perkins , j. , janssen , w. , smiley , r. and smith , c. ( 2007 ) high - content flow cytometry and temporal data analysis for defining a cellular signature of graft - versus - host disease . _ biology of blood and marrow transplantation _ , * 13 * , 691700",
    ".            carreira - perpin , m. . and williams , c.k.i .",
    "( 2003a ) on the number of modes of a gaussian mixture .",
    "_ scale - space methods in computer vision _ , pp . 625640 .",
    "lecture notes in computer science , vol . 2695 , springer - verlag .",
    "carreira - perpin , m. . and williams , c.k.i .",
    "( 2003b ) an isotropic gaussian mixture can have more modes than components .",
    "technical report edi - inf - rr-0185 , school of informatics , university of edinburgh , uk .",
    "chacn , j.e .",
    "( 2012 ) identifying nonstandard group shapes in mixture model clustering through the mean shift algorithm . in _ programme and abstracts of the 5th international conference of the ercim working group on computing & statistics _ , 122 .",
    "chacn , j.e . and duong , t. ( 2013 ) bandwidth selection for multivariate density derivative estimation , with applications to clustering and bump hunting .",
    "_ electronic journal of statistics _ , * 7 * , 499532 .",
    "chacn , j.e . and",
    "monfort , p. ( 2014 ) a comparison of bandwidth selectors for mean shift clustering . in _ theoretical and applied issues in statistics and",
    "( c. h. skiadas , ed . ) , 4759 . international society for the advancement of science and technology ( isast ) , athens ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the two most extended density - based approaches to clustering are surely mixture model clustering and modal clustering . in the mixture model approach , </S>",
    "<S> the density is represented as a mixture and clusters are associated to the different mixture components . in modal clustering , clusters are understood as regions of high density separated from each other by zones of lower density , so that they are closely related to certain regions around the density modes . if the true density is indeed in the assumed class of mixture densities , then mixture model clustering allows to scrutinize more subtle situations than modal clustering . </S>",
    "<S> however , when mixture modeling is used in a nonparametric way , taking advantage of the denseness of the sieve of mixture densities to approximate any density , then the correspondence between clusters and mixture components may become questionable . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we introduce two methods to adopt a modal clustering point of view after a mixture model fit . </S>",
    "<S> numerous examples are provided to illustrate that mixture modeling can also be used for clustering in a nonparametric sense , as long as clusters are understood as the domains of attraction of the density modes .    </S>",
    "<S> _ keywords : mixture modeling , modal clustering , component merging , mean shift algorithm _ </S>"
  ]
}