{
  "article_text": [
    "integrated photonics plays a major role in the development of classical information technologies  @xcite .",
    "significant efforts have been devoted to multiplexing operations for addressing the challenge of high - capacity and high - speed telecommunication links . among the physical observables that can be exploited to multiplex data streams ,",
    "one of the most mature techniques for long - distance communication lies in exploiting dense wavelength - division multiplexing ( dwdm ) thanks to its natural immunity to propagation disturbances ( polarization mode and chromatic dispersions ) . on the quantum communication side ,",
    "current integrated circuits operate almost exclusively in the single mode regime , and typically under - exploit the tremendous abilities offered by standard fiber optical technologies . in the perspective of improving quantum key distribution ( qkd ) systems , a key step lies in the development of robust and reliable devices , showing straightforward compatibility with telecom standards and , consequently , with multimodal operations in the spectral domain  @xcite .",
    "+ silicon - on - insulator ( soi ) represents one of the most promising technological platforms , offering high integration density and cmos compatibility  @xcite .",
    "recently , soi has also proven its suitability for the generation of correlated photon pairs through spontaneous four - wave mixing ( sfwm )  @xcite . moreover",
    ", single crystalline silicon ( si ) exhibits a very narrowband raman emission peak ( @xmath2 ) in comparison to silica ( @xmath3 ) , which dramatically reduces spurious broadband noise for telecom c - band applications  @xcite .",
    "those features make the soi platform appealing for further developing integrated quantum photonics devices . + this work focuses on the engineering of an entangled photon - pair source ( epps ) based on an soi structure consisting of a micro - ring resonator coupled to a feeding waveguide .",
    "we optimize the ring radius in order to generate and distribute entangled photon pairs on a frequency - comb grid in the telecom c - band , symmetrically to the pump wavelength .",
    "this strategy permits exploiting the capabilities offered by dwdm devices , thus allowing to significantly increase the bit rate by using off - the - shelves standard telecom components .",
    "we optimize the frequency - comb structure linewidth as a trade - off between brightness and robustness : narrower linewidths lead to brighter sources at the cost of advanced stabilization systems  @xcite .",
    "we successfully distribute energy - time entanglement simultaneously over multiple channel pairs using off - the - shelves dwdm components .",
    "we obtain nearly noise - free two - photon interferences pattern showing visibility figures of merit higher than 98% in the raw data .",
    "this source can therefore serve as a pertinent standalone technological resource for large - capacity entanglement - based qkd systems .",
    "the silicon device employed in our experiment is a micro - ring resonator evanescently coupled to a feeding waveguide located on one side of the ring ( see the left part of  [ fig_1 ] ) .",
    "both ring and straight waveguides , which are etched on a soi substrate , feature the same transverse dimensions : 600 nm ( width ) by 220 nm ( height ) .",
    "the ring resonator radius of 60@xmath4 m is designed to provide a moderate free spectral range ( fsr ) of @xmath5200ghz , that matches the dense channel grid of the international telecommunication union ( itu ) . a coupling distance of 100 nm has been chosen in order to maximize the energy transfer between the feeding waveguide and the micro - resonator ( critical - coupling distance ) .",
    "[ fig_1 ] presents the experimental setup employed for classical characterizations .",
    "light from a narrowband tunable telecom cw laser ( yenista tunics ) is coupled into the device .",
    "the polarization of the pump light is aligned to the te mode of the silicon waveguide using a polarization controller ( pc ) .",
    "coupling the laser into and out of the chip is performed thanks to grating couplers in which light is injected by means of an almost vertical single - mode fiber .",
    "the angle is fine tuned to optimize the transmission at the pump wavelength .",
    "the total coupling losses from standard fiber to the feeding waveguide is of about 10  db .",
    "as shown in the right side of  [ fig_1 ] , the typical transmission profile of our micro - ring resonator features a frequency - comb structure matching that of the itu - grid . from extinction ratio measurements , we infer a quality factor ( q ) of 40000  @xcite .",
    "we therefore expect the generation of photon pairs ( usually referred to as signal and idler photons ) symmetrically around the pump laser wavelength .",
    "the measured single - photon spectral bandwidth is 5  ghz , corresponding to a coherence time of @xmath5100ps .    in order to maximize the transfer of pump light into the micro - ring resonator",
    ", we accurately study the dynamics of the frequency comb .",
    "depending on the pump power inside the ring , the resonances are frequency - shifted by @xmath510ghz / k due to thermo - optic effects in the silicon substrate  @xcite . in the meantime , the power transferred to the resonator depends on the wavelength detuning between the pump laser and the shifted resonance .",
    "these interrelated mechanisms lead to a bistability curve , shown in fig .",
    "[ fig_2](a ) , where the hysteresis loop is obtained by tuning the power near to the resonance  @xcite .",
    "the hysteresis cycle is obtained when the pump power is increased along the path -- and then decreased through -- . in general , in order to precisely determine the resonances of the ring , this thermal effect has to be addressed .",
    "interestingly , the moderate q factor of our resonator helps improving the robustness against such thermal drifts .",
    "hence , a standard stabilization system using a simple temperature controller is sufficient to efficiently control the frequency - comb structure dynamics , enabling long - term stability .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     we now analyse the coincidence events registered in the central peak , which amounts to a sinusoidal oscillation as a function of the two - photon phase , @xmath6 , _ i.e. _ the sum of the phases acquired by the two individual photons in the interferometer .",
    "we exploit the channel capacity offered by our dwdm devices to measure two - photon interference fringes between various paired channels . to this end",
    ", we subsequently realize this measurement in the itu paired channels 48/52 , 45/55 , 43/57 , and 41/59 , all symmetrically located on both sides of the pump channel ( itu 50 ) .",
    "we obtain sinusoidal modulations of the coincidence rates as shown in  [ fig_4](a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) , and ( d ) . the quality of the measured entangled state is assessed by measuring the two - photon interference fringe visibilities . by fitting the raw data , we infer visibilities of 99.2@xmath72.3% , 98.9@xmath72.7% , 98.1@xmath70.9% , 98.8@xmath71.5% , respectively , using only free fit parameters . when subtracting the accidental coincidences originating only from the detectors dark counts , we obtain net visibilities of 99.7 % , 99.4 % , 98.6 % , 99.3 % , respectively .",
    "note that due to an non optimized path length difference in the interferometer , the 3 peaks of the coincidence histogram are not perfectly separated .",
    "we compute a 0.3 % degradation in the visibilities because of this crosstalk .",
    "those extremely high quantum interference visibilities stand as a clear witness of the non - classical correlations existing between the paired photons , as they not only exceed exceed largely the threshold of @xmath8% but also are very close to unity  @xcite .",
    "let us stress that these results stand as the highest raw quantum interference visibilities for energy - time entangled photon pairs for micro / nanoscale eppss @xcite .",
    "we also emphasize that this nearly perfect visibilities demonstrate both the high quality of the si micro - ring epps and the ability of our chip to produce high rates of entangled photon pairs without background excess noise .",
    "note that obtaining such a level of visibility has been made possible by paying particular attention for reducing well - known noise contributions : ( i ) dark counts are limited thanks to the use of very low - noise apds , ( ii ) low pump powers ( few 100@xmath9 ) are exploited for ensuring negligible multiple photon - pair events , and ( iii ) a short input fiber pigtail is used for minimizing raman - scattering .",
    "we have reported the conception , realization , and full characterization of a telecom compliant epps based on a silicon micro - ring resonator chip showing as well compactness and a high brightness ( @xmath5400pairs / s / mhz for @xmath0 coupled pump power ) .",
    "the near - perfect two - photon interference - pattern visibilities obtained in different paired channels clearly demonstrate the ability of our sources to stand as a key resource for future entanglement - based qkd systems , implemented over a large number of channels in the telecom c - band .",
    "we strongly believe that our proof of principle device sets the conceptual basis for further developments , such as exploiting dwdm components with higher spectral capacity .",
    "we anticipate the extension of our epps over the entire telecom c - band , relying on broadband phase matching condition engineering , as it has recently been demonstrated in a different technology platform  @xcite . in this perspective",
    ", one has to tailor the waveguide dimensions to obtain small and anomalous chromatic dispersion over the bandwidth of interest  @xcite .",
    "finally , the generation of multiple photon - pairs makes readily available multipartite entanglement and then extends significantly the ability of integrated quantum photonics  @xcite .",
    "the authors thank o. alibart , d. bonneau , and v. dauria for fruitful discussions , as well as p. bassi for his support and inputs .",
    "this work was funded by the agence nationale de la recherche ( anr ) for the sitqom project ( grant agreement anr-15-ce24 - 0005 ) , and by the european fp7-itn picque project ( grant agreement n608062 ) .",
    "the authors also acknowledge technical support from idq and yenista .",
    "michele traetta is especially grateful to the erasmus+ program ( grant agreement 2014 - 1-it02-ka103 - 000041 ) .",
    "t.  meany , l.  a. ngah , m.  j. collins , a.  s. clark , r.  j. williams , b.  j. eggleton , m.  j. steel , m.  j. withford , o.  alibart , and s.  tanzilli .",
    "hybrid photonic circuit for multiplexed heralded single photons .",
    ", 8:4246 , 2014 .      c.  reimer , l.  caspani , m.  clerici , m.  ferrera , m.  kues , m.  peccianti , a.  pasquazi , l.  razzari , b.  e. little , s.  t. chu , d.  j. moss , and r.  morandotti . integrated frequency comb source of heralded single photons .",
    ", 22:65356546 , 2014 .",
    "n.  c. harris , d.  grassani , a.  simbula , m.  pant , m.  galli , t.  baehr - jones , m.  hochberg , d.  englund , d.  bajoni , and c.  galland .",
    "integrated source of spectrally filtered correlated photons for large - scale quantum photonic systems .",
    ", 4:041047 , 2014 .",
    "s.  azzini , d.  grassani , m.  galli , l.  c. andreani , m.  sorel , m.  j. strain , l.  g. helt , j.  e. sipe , m.  liscidini , and d.  bajoni . from classical four - wave mixing to parametric fluorescence in silicon microring resonators . , 37:38073809 , 2012 .",
    "d.  grassani , a.  simbula , s.  pirotta , m.  galli , m.  menotti , n.  c. harris , t.  baehr - jones , m.  hochberg , c.  galland , m.  liscidini , and d.  bajoni .",
    "energy correlations of photon pairs generated by a silicon microring resonator probed by stimulated four wave mixing .",
    ", 6:23564 , 2016 .",
    "j.  w. silverstone , d.  bonneau , k.  ohira , n.  suzuki , h.  yoshida , n.  iizuka , m.  ezaki , c.  m. natarajan , m.  g. tanner , r.  h. hadfield , v.  zwiller , g.  d. marshall , j.  g. rarity , j.  l. obrien , and m.  g. thompson . on - chip quantum interference between silicon photon - pair sources .",
    ", 8:104108 , 2014 .",
    "e.  engin , d.  bonneau , c.  m. natarajan , a.  s. clark , m.  g. tanner , r.  h. hadfield , s.  n. dorenbos , v.  zwiller , k.  ohira , n.  suzuki , h.  yoshida , n.  iizuka , m.  ezaki , j.  l. obrien , and m.  g. thompson .",
    "photon pair generation in a silicon micro - ring resonator with reverse bias enhancement .",
    ", 21:27826 , 2013 .",
    "f.  kaiser , d.  aktas , b.  fedrici , t.  lunghi , l.  labont , and s.  tanzilli . optimal analysis of ultra broadband energy - time entanglement for high bit - rate dense wavelength division multiplexed quantum networks .",
    ", 108:231108 , 2016 .        c.  reimer , m.  kues , p.  roztocki , b.  wetzel , f.  grazioso , b.e .",
    "little , s.t .",
    "chu , t.  johnston , y.  bromberg , l.  caspani , d.j .",
    "moss , and r.  morandotti .",
    "generation of multiphoton entangled quantum states by means of integrated frequency combs .",
    ", 351:11761180 , 2016 .    m.  ferrera , d.  duchesne , l.  razzari , m.  peccianti , r.  morandotti , p.  cheben , s.  janz , d .- x .",
    "xu , b.  e. little , s.  chu , and d.  j. moss .",
    "low power four wave mixing in an integrated , micro - ring resonator with q = 1.2 million .",
    ", 17:1409814103 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report an efficient energy - time entangled photon - pair source based on four - wave mixing in a cmos - compatible silicon photonics ring resonator . </S>",
    "<S> thanks to suitable optimization , the source shows a large spectral brightness of 400pairs of entangled photons /s / mhz for @xmath0 pump power . additionally , the resonator has been engineered so as to generate a frequency comb structure compatible with standard telecom dense wavelength division multiplexers . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate high - purity energy - time entanglement , _ </S>",
    "<S> i.e. _ , free of photonic noise , with near perfect raw visibilities ( @xmath1  98% ) between various channel pairs in the telecom c - band . </S>",
    "<S> such a compact source stands as a path towards more complex quantum photonic circuits dedicated to quantum communication systems . </S>"
  ]
}