{
  "article_text": [
    "predicting public health events , e.g.  how many people may get vaccinated in the near future , can reduce the reaction time of public health professionals , resulting in more efficient services and improved public health . traditionally , public health event prediction relied on _ clinical data _",
    "( e.g.  microbiological results or patient registries ) that was collected from designated bodies . in the last decade however , non - clinical _ web data _ ( e.g.  search engine queries or microblog messages ) , has been shown useful to the task of predicting public health events .",
    "clinical and web data are complementary sources of evidence : whereas clinical data contributes expert and curated information to the prediction , web data contributes near real - time information on a large scale about e.g.  symptoms or health concerns that may go undetected or unreported by the official clinical channels .",
    "we present a method for predicting vaccination uptake by combining clinical and web data using ensemble learning .",
    "combining such clinical and web search data for vaccination uptake prediction is novel .",
    "so far , research on vaccination uptake has focused on the effect of physician recommendations on vaccination uptake @xcite ; how combined sources of information ( e.g. physician , television , friends ) influence people s decisions about vaccination @xcite ; and the effects of media coverage on vaccination uptake with respect to influenza vaccination @xcite , hpv vaccination @xcite , and mmr vaccination . to our knowledge ,",
    "our study is the first to predict vaccination uptake using web data ( with and without clinical data ) .",
    "web and/or clinical data have been used before for other types of health event predictions , e.g.  influenza activity @xcite , dengue fever @xcite and cholera @xcite .",
    "how the different types of data should be handled has evolved from using a unified model for both web and clinical data @xcite , to using ensemble methods that model separately clinical and web data and then combine the outputs @xcite . when web search query frequencies are used for prediction @xcite ,",
    "a single linear model is used to combine the query frequencies into a prediction .",
    "methods using query frequencies select queries either by ( i ) timely correlation between query search frequency and the health event @xcite , or by ( ii ) expert selection of queries @xcite .",
    "both approaches have disadvantages . approach ( i )",
    "relies on calculating the correlation between the health event time - series and all queries , which is computationally expensive .",
    "it also assumes that historic correlation equals predictive power in the future , which may not always be the case .",
    "approach ( ii ) relies on human experts , which is costly and does not scale well . in this work",
    "we propose a third approach : we select queries based on web descriptions of the health event , in our case of the vaccine in question , and we use an ensemble learning approach , specifically stacking , to predict vaccination uptake .",
    "vaccination uptake prediction with time - series data can be formulated as : @xmath0 , where @xmath1 is the predicted vaccination uptake at time @xmath2 , and @xmath3 is the observed vaccination uptake at time @xmath4 . we compute @xmath1 using ensemble learning by combining separate predictions on vaccination uptake based on clinical and web data into one prediction .",
    "ensemble learning combines predictions from an ensemble of level-0 models into one prediction using a level-1 meta model .",
    "we use an ensemble method called _",
    "stacking_. first , all level-0 models are trained .",
    "then , a level-1 model is trained to make a final prediction using all the predictions of the level-0 models as input .",
    "we experiment with three different types of level-1 models : a linear model , support vector regression ( svr ) with a linear kernel , and svr with a gaussian kernel .",
    "both our clinical and web data are time - series , i.e.  each data point has a temporal reference .      *",
    "stacking with linear model . *",
    "we define a linear model with two explanatory variables : @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the prediction based on clinical data at time @xmath2 , @xmath7 is the prediction based on web data at time @xmath2 , and @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 denote the coefficients that need to be optimized .",
    "we use ordinary least squares to find the coefficients that minimize : @xmath11 .    *",
    "stacking with svr .",
    "* svr solves the same problem as the linear model presented above , but with the possibility of using kernels to transform the input into another feature space .",
    "in addition @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 are selected to minimize the following : @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is a hyperparameter controlling the penalty for large coefficients , and @xmath14 is defined as @xmath15 if @xmath16 and otherwise @xmath17 .",
    "the parameter @xmath18 controls how precise the prediction has to be before it is treated as correct .",
    "we experiment with an svr with linear kernel and with a gaussian kernel defined as : @xmath19 , where @xmath20 is a hyperparameter .",
    "* prediction with clinical data . * as level-0 models we use three well - known time - series methods : autoregressive ( ar ) models @xcite , arima and holt winters ( hw ) .",
    "ar models estimate @xmath1 as : @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the number of autoregressive terms , @xmath8 is the intercept , and the @xmath23s control the weight that each past observation has on the prediction .",
    "ar models assume that future values of @xmath24 can be predicted by a linear combination of the @xmath22 most recently observed values of @xmath24 .",
    "with enough autoregressive terms ar models can handle seasonal changes , but not general upwards or downwards trends .",
    "an extension of the ar models are the arima ( autoregressive integrated moving average ) models .",
    "in addition to the autoregressive terms , these models also include a moving average , which is a weighted sum of the @xmath25 most recent forecasting errors .",
    "let @xmath22 denote the number of autoregressive terms and @xmath25 the number of moving averages ; then : @xmath26 , where @xmath27 . to handle trend ,",
    "the original signal @xmath24 can be differentiated one or more times @xcite .",
    "hw forecasting is defined by three recursive equations controlling : level , trend and seasonality .",
    "hw can forecast time - series with both trend and seasonal changes .",
    "each equation is defined as a weighted sum in which the weight of historic observations decreases exponentially with time .",
    "hw forecasting with level , trend and seasonality is recursively defined as :    @xmath28    where @xmath29 is the length of the season and @xmath30 , @xmath23 and @xmath20 are the smoothing parameters which control the influence of the historic level , trend and seasonality .",
    "predictions are made by combining level , trend and seasonality : @xmath31 .",
    "* prediction with web data . * as level-0 models we use a linear model , bagging and weighted majority .",
    "our web data consists of time - stamped query frequencies ( described in section [ s : eval ] ) .",
    "_ linear model .",
    "_ given a collection of @xmath32 query frequency time - series , denoted @xmath33 , we define a simple linear model as : @xmath34 , where @xmath8 and @xmath30 are coefficients to be estimated .",
    "such a model can be fitted using any of several methods , the most common being ordinary least squares .",
    "another approach is to use lasso regularization which is commonly used for making predictions using query frequencies @xcite .",
    "this approach adds an additional constraint to the optimization , namely that the sum of the coefficients should also be minimized .",
    "the weight of this sum is controlled by the hyperparameter @xmath13 .",
    "this approach can be used to avoid overfitting and to reduce the coefficients of non - informative features to zero and thereby induce a sparse model .",
    "this is a useful property in this context because the collection of queries might contain non - informative terms .",
    "_ bagging . _ with bagging ,",
    "we consider the average of the predictions made on subsets of the training data .",
    "this helps to reduce variance and overfitting .",
    "we generate subsets of the training data by uniformly sampling with replacement @xmath32 datasets of size @xmath22 . for each dataset a linear model , as defined above , is fitted using lasso regularization , where the parameter @xmath13 is found using 3-fold cross - validation .",
    "the prediction of the ensemble is the average of the @xmath32 predictions .    _ weighted majority . _",
    "we extend the bagging approach to a boosting approach using a weighted majority ( wm ) algorithm @xcite .",
    "the wm algorithm works by combining predictions from a collection of models using a weighted average .",
    "each model is associated with its own weight related to its previous predictive performance .",
    "if the overall prediction is wrong by a constant @xmath18 , the weights are updated .",
    "the updating works as follows : if the individual prediction of a model has an error @xmath35 , a new weight is calculated as @xmath36 , where @xmath37 is the weight for model @xmath38 and @xmath39 is a hyperparameter controlling the penalty for making wrong predictions .",
    "our collection of models is identical to the models used for the bagging approach described above .",
    "* data[multiblock footnote omitted ] . *",
    "we evaluate the effectiveness of our approach in predicting vaccination uptake in denmark for all official children vaccines : ditekipol-1 , ditekipol-2 , ditekipol-3 , ditekipol-4 , pcv-1 , pcv-2 , pcv-3 , mmr-1 , mmr-2(4 ) , mmr-2(12 ) , hpv-1 , hpv-2 and hpv-3 .",
    "we use as clinical data the actual vaccination uptake recorded by the country s official body , the state serum institut . specifically , the vaccination uptake is the total number of vaccines given in a month divided by the number of people expected to be vaccinated that month ( based on the size of the monthly birth cohorts published by statistics denmark ) .",
    "we use as web data web search queries that are related to each vaccine .",
    "we generate these queries from descriptions of each vaccine in : _",
    "www.ssi.dk_ , _",
    "www.patienthndbogen.dk_ , and _ www.min.medicin.dk _ ( authoritative medical health portals ) .",
    "we remove stopwords and collect terms that occur in at least two different descriptions of each vaccine .",
    "we treat each term as a query ( i.e. we use only single term queries ) and we submit it to google trends using denmark as the geographical region and with the time period set to january 2011 - september 2015 ( only limited coverage of denmark is available prior to 2011 ) .",
    "only 58 out of 85 queries had enough coverage in google trends to return a result .",
    "we use these 58 queries for our predictions ( shown in table [ tab : queries ] )",
    ".    * training .",
    "* we use as training data all data which is available prior to the data point being predicted .",
    "hence if we are predicting the vaccination uptake in february 2014 we train on data from january 2011  january 2014 .",
    "all models are refitted for each time step .",
    "we use monthly time steps . to allow for inference of seasonality , the level-0 models are initialized with 24 months of available data ( january 2011  december 2012 ) as training data . for the level-1 models we start by using 12 months of data ( january 2013  december 2013 ) .",
    "we evaluate our predictions using the root mean squared error ( rmse ) , which penalizes large errors more than small .",
    "our prediction methods are fitted using r packages with default settings at all times , except for the starting point for hw , where we manually select a starting point of the optimization if it can not be completed with the default value .",
    "the ar model is trained using 12 autoregressive terms to capture seasonal variations . for bagging and weighted majority we use as many subsets as there are queries",
    ", each subset contains 10 randomly sampled queries . for the weighted majority we use @xmath40 and @xmath41 for all experiments . * results . *",
    "table [ tab : individual ] shows the results when predicting vaccination uptake using either clinical or web data only ( with the methods presented in section 2 ) .",
    "`` naive '' refers to our naive baseline @xmath42 .",
    "our methods outperform the naive baseline except for the hpv vaccines .",
    "this might be due to an intense debate in denmark regarding the safety of this particular vaccine .",
    "such a debate is likely to boost query frequencies but not necessarily vaccination uptake ( the fact that many more people talk about hpv does not mean that many more hpv vaccines are given ) .",
    "we see that methods using clinical data outperform the methods using web data for the majority of the vaccines .",
    "but interestingly this difference is not very big and for the vaccines ditekipol-3 and ditekipol-4 the methods based on web data perform best .",
    "ditekipol-4 is especially interesting since a shortage in 2013 resulted in unusual vaccination behaviour for a few months . when making predictions from web data our two new approaches ( bagging and wm ) perform best for 9 of the 13 vaccines .",
    "table [ tab : ensemble ] shows the results for the ensemble predictions using clinical and web data . except for the three hpv vaccines ,",
    "the ensemble approaches outperform all other methods using only one data source .",
    "we see that when using an svr with a gaussian kernel as level-1 model we obtain the best results , i.e.  7/13 lowest rmse . when comparing within the methods using an svr with a gaussian kernel , the hw+wm is the best performing method .",
    "the most improvements are obtained when combining predictions based on web data with either predictions from hw or ar12 .",
    "we presented a method that uses ensemble learning to combine clinical and web - mined time - series data to make predictions about future vaccination uptake .",
    "as clinical data we used official registries of vaccines in denmark . as web data we used query frequencies collected from google trends .",
    "we created those queries by extracting terms from publicly available descriptions of the vaccines on the web .",
    "experiments using all officially recommended children vaccines in denmark for the period january 2011  september 2015 showed that for 10/13 vaccines our ensemble learning methods that combined clinical with web data for prediction outperformed predictions using either clinical or web data alone . though this combination yields the lowest overall error , using only web data gives predictions with an error only slightly worse than for the predictions made using only clinical data .",
    "this indicates the potential usefulness of web data , such as query frequencies , to predict vaccination uptake in countries where there is no national vaccination registry .",
    "this work complements wider efforts in tackling medical and health problems computationally with machine learning or retrieval @xcite .",
    "l.  m. gargano , n.  l. herbert , j.  e. painter , j.  m. sales , c.  morfaw , k.  rask , d.  murray , r.  diclemente , and j.  m. hughes .",
    "impact of a physician recommendation and parental immunization attitudes on receipt or intention to receive adolescent vaccines .",
    ", 9(12):26272633 , 2013 .",
    "l.  m. gargano , n.  l. underwood , j.  m. sales , k.  seib , c.  morfaw , d.  murray , r.  j. diclemente , and j.  m. hughes .",
    "influence of sources of information about influenza vaccine on parental attitudes and adolescent vaccine receipt . , 2015 .",
    "b.  j. kelly , a.  e. leader , d.  j. mittermaier , r.  c. hornik , and j.  n. cappella . the hpv vaccine and the media : how has the topic been covered and what are the effects on knowledge about the virus and cervical cancer ? , 77(2):308313 , 2009 .",
    "m.  santillana , a.  t. nguyen , m.  dredze , m.  j. paul , e.  o. nsoesie , and j.  s. brownstein . combining search , social media , and traditional data sources to improve influenza surveillance .",
    ", 11(10):e1004513 , 2015 .",
    "m.  j. smith , s.  s. ellenberg , l.  m. bell , and d.  m. rubin .",
    "media coverage of the measles - mumps - rubella vaccine and autism controversy and its relationship to mmr immunization rates in the united states .",
    ", 121(4):e836e843 , 2008 .",
    "r.  dragusin , p.  petcu , c.  lioma , b.  larsen , h.  l.  jrgensen , i.  j.  cox , l.  k.  hansen p.  ingwersen and o.  winther .",
    "specialized tools are needed when searching the web for rare disease diagnoses .",
    ", 1(1):e25001 , 2013 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a method that uses ensemble learning to combine clinical and web - mined time - series data in order to predict future vaccination uptake . </S>",
    "<S> the clinical data is official vaccination registries , and the web data is query frequencies collected from google trends . </S>",
    "<S> experiments with official vaccine records show that our method predicts vaccination uptake effectively ( 4.7 root mean squared error ) . whereas performance is best when combining clinical and web data , using solely web data yields comparative performance . to our knowledge </S>",
    "<S> , this is the first study to predict vaccination uptake using web data ( with and without clinical data ) .    </S>",
    "<S> = 10000 = 10000 </S>"
  ]
}