{
  "article_text": [
    "transmission control protocol ( tcp ) is commonly used by most of internet applications and becomes one of the two original components of the internet protocol suite , complementing the internet protocol ( ip ) , thus the entire suite is known as tcp / ip .",
    "tcp provides stable and reliable delivery of data packets without relying on any explicit feedback from the underlying network .",
    "however , it relies only on the two ends of the connection which are sender and receiver . that is why tcp is known as end - to - end or host - to - host protocol . in the last couple of years , tcp",
    "is profusely used by major internet applications such as file transfer , email , world - wide - web and remote administration .",
    "the first idea of tcp had been presented by @xcite .",
    "thereafter , tcp has been implemented in several operating systems and examined in real environment . with the advancement in network technology ,",
    "tcp faced many new scenarios and problems , such as network congestion , under utilization of bandwidth , unfair share , unnecessary retransmission , out of order delivery , non - congestion loss .",
    "all of these problems encouraged researchers to review the behavior of tcp . in order to solve these problems ,",
    "many tcp variants have been developed .",
    "each tcp variant has been designed to solve certain problems , some try to survive over a very slow and congested connections , and some try to achieve higher throughput to fully utilize the high - speed bandwidths , while some try to be more fair",
    ". in fact , they are mostly different from each other so that categorizes them into high - speed , wireless , satellite and low priority .",
    "indeed , a particular tcp variant which is proper for wireless networks , may not fit for high - bdp wired networks and vice versa .",
    "therefore , it is necessary to conduct a comparison between tcp variants that are designed for high - speed networks to show the advantages and disadvantages of each tcp variant . in this paper , scalable tcp , hs - tcp , bic ,",
    "h - tcp , cubic , tcp africa , tcp compound , tcp fusion , newreno , tcp illinois and yeah have been evaluated using ns2 network simulator .",
    "this performance evaluation presents the advantages and disadvantages of the compared tcp variants and shows the differences between them in terms of throughput , loss - ratio and fairness over high - bdp networks . as well as",
    ", it presents and explains the behaviors of the compared tcp variants , shows the impacts of the used approaches , and arranges the thoughts .",
    "thus , this paper may help the researchers to improve the performance of the existing tcp variants by cutting down the effort of comparing the existing protocols in order to improve it to fit the new generation of the networks .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as follows : section [ mot ] presents the motivations behind this work , challenges and previous works . while , section [ pe ] presents the performance evaluation of high - speed tcp variants and explains the experiments setup , network topology , performance metrics , results and discussion .",
    "finally , section [ conc ] concludes the paper with some final comments .",
    "the rapid growth of network technologies reduces the ability of tcp to fully utilize the resources of these networks . due to this problem of under - utilization of network resources , many high - speed tcp variants that aim to increase the utilization of these resources",
    "have been exist .",
    "these increase of tcp aggressiveness , in order to fully utilize the high - speed bandwidths , arises the severe problem of burst loss @xcite .",
    "in addition to that , the variety of these tcp protocols leads to some questions that need to be addressed : which tcp variant seems to be the best for high - speed networks ?",
    "are the current tcp variants sufficient to fully utilize the high - speed bandwidths ? in order to answer these questions , a comparative study of high - speed tcp variants is required . such comparison or performance evaluation addresses the points of tcp weaknesses and consequently supports the process of enhancing tcp performance .",
    "nowadays , tcp is struggling to deal with different network environments such as wireless or lossy networks , high - speed networks and highly congested networks .",
    "each type of these networks has its own problems and limitations that are different from one to another networks .",
    "consequently , there are many tcp variants designed for each certain type of networks .",
    "as shown in figure [ taxonomy ] , @xcite provided an excellent evolutionary graph of most tcp variants based on the problem of which they are trying to solve and how they are behaving . in this paper , high - speed linux tcp variants that are available for research is presented and explained , as shown in table [ history ] , along the following subsections .    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ comparison ]",
    "this work was supported by the ministry of higher education of malaysia under the fundamental research grant frgs/02/01/12/1143/fr for financial support .",
    "+          beheshti , n. , ganjali , y. , rajaduray , r. , blumenthal , d. , mckeown , n. , 2006 .",
    "buffer sizing in all - optical packet switches . in : optical fiber communication conference .",
    "optical society of america , pp .",
    "cavendish , d. , kumazoe , k. , ishizaki , h. , ikenaga , t. , tsuru , m. , oie , y. , 2012 . on tuning tcp for superior performance on high speed path scenarios .",
    "in : internet 2012 , the fourth international conference on evolving internet .",
    ". 1116 .",
    "jain , r. , chiu , d .-",
    "m . , hawe , w.  r. , 1984 .",
    "a quantitative measure of fairness and discrimination for resource allocation in shared computer system .",
    "eastern research laboratory , digital equipment corporation .",
    "kaneko , k. , fujikawa , t. , su , z. , katto , j. , 2007 .",
    "tcp - fusion : a hybrid congestion control algorithm for high - speed networks . in : proc .",
    "pfldnet , isi , marina del rey ( los angeles ) , california .",
    ". 3136 .",
    "king , r. , baraniuk , r. , riedi , r. , 2005 .",
    "tcp - africa : an adaptive and fair rapid increase rule for scalable tcp . in : infocom 2005 .",
    "24th annual joint conference of the ieee computer and communications societies .",
    "proceedings ieee .",
    ". 111 .",
    "legrange , j.  d. , simsarian , j.  e. , bernasconi , p. , neilson , d.  t. , buhl , l. , gripp , j. , 2009 .",
    "demonstration of an integrated buffer for an all - optical packet router . in : optical fiber",
    "communication - incudes post deadline papers , 2009 .",
    "conference on .",
    "ieee , pp .",
    "13 .      , nov .",
    "2009 . test - bed based comparison of single and parallel tcp and the impact of parallelism on throughput and fairness in heterogenous networks . in : icctd 09 ,",
    "ieee proceedings of the 2009 international conference on computer technology and development .",
    "vol .  1 .",
    "kota kinabalu , malaysia , pp .",
    "332335 .    , nov . 2013 .",
    "performance evaluation of parallel tcp , and its impact on bandwidth utilization and fairness in high - bdp networks based on test - bed . in : micc13 ,",
    "2013 ieee 11th malaysia international conference on communications .",
    "kuala lumpur , malaysia .",
    "tan , k. , song , j. , 2006 .",
    "compound tcp : a scalable and tcp - friendly congestion control for high - speed networks . in : in 4th international workshop on protocols for fast long - distance networks ( pfldnet ) , 2006 .",
    "vishwanath , a. , sivaraman , v. , 2008 .",
    "routers with very small buffers : anomalous loss performance for mixed real - time and tcp traffic . in : quality of service , 2008 .",
    "iwqos 2008 .",
    "16th international workshop on .",
    "ieee , pp .",
    "8089 .",
    "vishwanath , a. , sivaraman , v. , rouskas , g.  n. , 2011 .",
    "anomalous loss performance for mixed real - time and tcp traffic in routers with very small buffers .",
    "ieee / acm transactions on networking 19  ( 4 ) , 933946 .",
    "xu , l. , harfoush , k. , rhee , i. , 2004 .",
    "binary increase congestion control ( bic ) for fast long - distance networks . in : infocom 2004 .",
    "twenty - third annual joint conference of the ieee computer and communications societies .",
    "vol .  4 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> transmission control protocol ( tcp ) has been profusely used by most of internet applications . since 1970s , several tcp variants have been developed in order to cope with the fast increasing of network capacities especially in high bandwidth delay product ( high - bdp ) networks . in these tcp variants , </S>",
    "<S> several approaches have been used , some of these approaches have the ability to estimate available bandwidths and some react based on network loss and/or delay changes . </S>",
    "<S> this variety of the used approaches arises many consequent problems with different levels of dependability and accuracy . </S>",
    "<S> indeed , a particular tcp variant which is proper for wireless networks , may not fit for high - bdp wired networks and vice versa . </S>",
    "<S> therefore , it is necessary to conduct a comparison between the high - speed tcp variants that have a high level of importance especially after the fast growth of networks bandwidths . in this paper , high - speed tcp variants , that are implemented in linux and available for research , have been evaluated using ns2 network simulator . </S>",
    "<S> this performance evaluation presents the advantages and disadvantages of these tcp variants in terms of throughput , loss - ratio and fairness over high - bdp networks . </S>",
    "<S> the results reveal that , cubic and yeah overcome the other high - speed tcp variants in different cases of buffer size . however , they still require more improvement to extend their ability to fully utilize the high - speed bandwidths , especially when the applied buffer is @xmath0 or less than the bdp of the link .    </S>",
    "<S> linux tcp , high - bdp , congestion control , throughput , loss ratio , fairness index . </S>"
  ]
}