{
  "article_text": [
    "the recent discovery of gravitational waves by the ligo / virgo collaboration @xcite generated a focused interest on the further improvements of the detection capability of these ground based facilities , reducing the surrounding environmental noise .",
    "a conceptual design study about the feasibility of a third - generation gravitational wave observatory , called the einstein telescope ( et ) , has been completed @xcite .",
    "the undergound facility of kagra in the okuhida mountains in japan is close to perform a test run @xcite . as part of the einstein telescope design phase ,",
    "a ground motion study was accomplished in 2010 to determine the seismic noise characteristics at various sites all around the world @xcite , including a hungarian site in gyngysoroszi in the mtra mountain range ( fig .",
    "[ mggl_loc]/a ) . here",
    "the preliminary investigation indicated excellent parameters in noise reduction .    in 2015 the matra gravitational and geophysical laboratory ( mggl ) of mta",
    "wigner research centre of physics has been established in the gyngysoroszi ore mine , which is out of operation in the present days .",
    "the laboratory is located in the coordinates ( 399 mbf , 711232.27 , 281949.94 eov ) , along a horizontal tunnel of the mine , 1280  m from the entrance , at 88  m depth from the surface , in the former instruction office near to the first shaft .",
    "the laboratory is near to one of the sites of the above mentioned short term measurements in refs .",
    "@xcite . in the mggl",
    "several measurement platforms were constructed on concrete pillars for long time seismological research ( fig .",
    "[ mggl_loc]/b ) .",
    "furthermore , mggl has a direct optical data connection to the surface for fast and reliable data transfer .",
    "the construction of the laboratory has been finished in february 2016 .",
    "the first data collection has been started in march 2016 and ended in august 2016 .",
    "we consider this time period as a test to explore the research potential of the laboratory and the installed instruments .",
    "we name this period as `` run-0 '' data collection .",
    ".4     .4     in this paper we provide a short survey of the geological and rock mass characteristics of the site , summarize some recent studies of damped wave propagation in rocks and elastic solids , and report a preliminary summary of the various measurements in operation .",
    "all of them are designed to measure low frequency noises or dedicated to test underground facilities .",
    "the participating equipments are the followings :    1 .   a guralp cmg-3 t seismometer inside the underground mggl , and a streickeisen sts/2 seismosmeter in piszkstet , at the surface ; 2 .   a special seismic sensor of the warsaw university , which was developed specially for testing underground sites for future gravitational wave detector at the critical low frequency range ; 3 .   an infrasound monitoring system , which was specifically designed to filter false gravitational - wave signals and already applied at aligo detectors in the usa ; 4 .",
    "lemi-120 extremly low noise and wide frequency induction magnetometers inside the laboratory and also at a surface site in piszkstet ; 5 .   a portable muon telescope ( muontomograph ) , which provides data data to study the density inhomogeneities of the surrounding rock mass .",
    "this equipment is designed for underground operation and detects the high - energy cosmic muon flux .    in the following sections we describe the installed facilities in detail and elaborate the run-0 data , exploring their nature .",
    "the formation of the mtra is a consequence of several phases of volcanic activity , which lasted for several million years including long quite intervals .",
    "the volcanic activities of the first phase are connected to the beginning of the tertiary period ( eocene ) , and their relicts can be found on the northern edge of the mountain range .",
    "the main mass of the mountain range was formed in the second phase , during miocene .",
    "the volcano must have been 25 kilometres wide and 2000 - 2500  m high .",
    "the traces of post - volcanic activities in the third phase can be seen on the western and north - western edge of the mountain range . since its evolution ,",
    "the mtra has almost constantly been eroding , but in varying degrees ; the dominating height of its surface is 700 - 800 metres which is occasionally interrupted by peaks of 850 - 1000 metres .",
    "the main rock type of the mtra mountains are volcanic rocks , apart from the andesites , include some pro - pylitized andesite ( `` greenstone '' ) and also rhyolite .",
    "occasionally we find basalt tuff and conglomerate .",
    "mainly andesite rock types are in the investigated area ( see figure [ g1_fig ] ) .",
    ".characteristic andesit types of the mtra for figure [ g1_fig ] . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]      after analysing the measured data the muon flux was calculated based on the reconstructed tracks .",
    "the three measured and partially overlapping flux maps were merged together with the proper geometry and normalization  @xcite .",
    "the obtained flux map is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : mtlokpoltopo ] , where the muon flux is plotted by color - scale contours as a function of azimuth and zenith angles . the three data settings , providing cosmic muon ( track ) rate of 0.005 - 0.02 hz was sufficient to provide flux measurement with @xmath0 statistical errors ( depending on zenith angle ) .",
    "the measured flux has a maximum value of 0.7 m^-2^sr^-1^s^-1^ plotted with white color at @xmath1 zenith angle , exactly towards the west direction .",
    "the detector - to - surface distance is indicated with dark contour lines in the figure  [ fig : mtlokpoltopo ] with an estimated relative error of 5% ( 5  m at the zenith ) .",
    "one can observe that the surface distance and the muon flux reasonably match each other in fig  [ fig : mtlokpoltopo ] .",
    "with the present statistics of the muon flux measurement , the rock thickness , assuming homogeneous density , can be constrained to a precision of @xmath2  m. within this relatively broad margin , the data do not show any large density inhomogeneities or cavities above the mggl .",
    "based on these promising results , the muon flux measurements will be continued to improve the rock density determination in the future .",
    "the timeline of the different instruments of mggl during the 6 months of run-0 is shown on fig [ fig : timeline ] .        during this test period",
    "the partially disjunct data acquisition periods restrict the possibilities of correlated and complex data analysis . in the next data acquisition period in 2017 ( run-1 )",
    "we expect reliable parallel data collection from all installed equipments , which would provide a detailed study and precise identification of different sources of low frequency noise .",
    "seismic measurements have shown that the environment of mggl is more quite than surface locations at the investigated frequency range ( see figures [ seismo2 ] , [ seismo3 ] ) .",
    "the noise spectra form mggl were compared to the nearby seismological surface station at piszkstet .",
    "the preliminary site survey of einstein telescope assigned mtra mountain range as one of the quite locations in europe @xcite . during that study",
    "the seismic noise was measured for 3.5 days in two underground locations inside the gyngysoroszi mine .",
    "the position of the less deep measurement was at 1435  m from the entrance , deeper in the mountain than the mggl with 150  m. a qualitative comparison of the data of this previous registration period to our data with guralp seismometer shows that the noise level of our recent long term measurements is slightly higher in the specific frequency range .",
    "however , a similar qualitative comparison to the measurements of the special seismometer of the warsaw university indicates less difference .",
    "it is remarkable , that the noise level of the specially organized quite day is close to the noise level of several other `` normal '' days , as one can see on figure [ figwaw ] .",
    "the seismic noise rms level from displacement spectra averaged in time and integrated for frequencies above 2  hz was accepted as site noise characterisation number in @xcite . during the test run-0 data collection at mggl",
    "the rms level of the guralp seismometer data in the quite periods is similar that the rms level reported in the et preliminary survey in the less deep measurement location inside the gyngysoroszi mine .",
    "one of these periods was e.g. the specially organized quiet day , 16^th^ july 2016 , when recultivation activities and water pumping were ceased .",
    "the relatively high infrasound noise level ( see fig . [ asd ] ) , when contrasted to the low seismic noise , indicates that the human activities inside the mine did not filter into and do not propagate in the calm rock mass environment at the investigated frequencies .",
    "the comprehensive geophysical study of the site involves detailed electromagnetic investigation of the local environment , too .",
    "our preliminary noise measurements indicate a high - level electromagnetic noise that prevents the reliable determination of natural ones without increasing the effectiveness of filtering .",
    "we also plan a magnetotelluric exploration of the site to recover the spatial distribution of the electric conductivity in the close vicinity of mggl .",
    "based on the present data statistics , our underground muon flux measurement in mggl indicates homogeneous density above the measurement location up to the precision of 10 - 15  m depending on the zenith angle .",
    "the contribution and support of nitrokemia zrt .",
    "in particular  . vradi and v. rofrits is acknowledged .",
    "we also thank the construction work of geofaber zrt .",
    "this research was supported by mta euhunkp grant .",
    "authors pv and rk thank the hungarian otka and nkfia grants k104260 , k116197 , k120660 , nk106119 , and k116375 for funding .",
    "tb , mc , ms , dr and ts were supported by the ncn grant umo-2013/01/aspera / st9/00001 .",
    "muon flux measurements have been supported by the momentum ( `` lendlet '' ) grant of the hungarian academy of sciences under contract lp2013 - 60 .",
    "authors ggb and mv also thanks the jnos bolyai research scholarship of the hungarian academy of sciences .",
    "bp  abbott , r  abbott , td  abbott , mr  abernathy , f  acernese , k  ackley , c  adams , t  adams , p  addesso , rx  adhikari , et  al .",
    "observation of gravitational waves from a binary black hole merger .",
    ", 116(6):061102 , 2016 .",
    "bp  abbott , r  abbott , td  abbott , mr  abernathy , f  acernese , k  ackley , c  adams , t  adams , p  addesso , rx  adhikari , et  al .",
    "gw151226 : observation of gravitational waves from a 22-solar - mass binary black hole coalescence .",
    ", 116(24):241103 , 2016 .",
    "v. jzsa , z. czap and b. vsrhelyi .",
    "geotechnical design of an underground mine dam in gyngysoroszi , hungary . in g.",
    "lollino et  al . ,",
    "editor , _ engineering geology for society and territory _ , volume  6 , pages 443447 .",
    "springer int .",
    "publ . , 2015 .",
    "w.  lin , y.  kuwahara , t.  satoh , n.  shigematsu , y.  kitagawa , t.  kiguchi , and n.  koizumi .",
    "a case study of 3d stress orientation determination in shikoku island and kii peninsula , japan . in ivan vrkljan , editor , _ rock engineering in difficult ground conditions ( soft rock and karst ) _ , pages 277282 , london , 2010 .",
    "proceedings of eurock09 cavtat , croatia , 2009 x. 28 - 29 .",
    "l. kovcs , e. mszros , f. dek , g. somodi , k. mt , a. jakab , b. vsrhelyi , j. geiger , gy .",
    "dank , f. korpai , gy .",
    "mez , k. darvas , p. vn , t. flp and cs .",
    "asszonyi geotechnikai rtelmez jelents ( gj ) fellvizsglata s kiterjesztse .",
    "kzirat irattr , paks , rhk - k-032/12 , rhk - kmr kft . ,",
    "pcs , november 2012 .",
    "( in hungarian )            p. vn , z. szarka , r. horvth , cs . asszonyi and t. flp basic rheological models and their connections . in cs",
    "asszonyi , editor , _ material properties of istropic continua _ , volume  6 of _ mrnkgeolgia - k ozetmechanika kisknyvtr _ , chapter  2 , pages 5192 .",
    "megyetemi kiad , budapest , 2008 .",
    "( in hungarian ) .",
    "t. flp rheological circuits . in cs .",
    "asszonyi , editor , _ material properties of isotropic continua _ , volume  6 of _ mrnkgeolgia - k ozetmechanika kisknyvtr _ , chapter  3 , pages 93120 .",
    "megyetemi kiad , budapest , 2008 , ( in hungarian ) .",
    "t. flp linear problems of elasticity and rheology . in cs .",
    "asszonyi , editor , _ on the solution of problems in continuum mechanics .",
    "_ , volume  9 of _ mrnkgeolgia - kzetmechanika kisknyvtr _ , pages 1151 .",
    "megyetemi kiad , budapest , 2009 .",
    "( in hungarian )            p.  vn .",
    "thermodynamics of continua : the challenge of universality . in m.",
    "pilotelli and g.  p. beretta , editors , _ proceedings of the 12th joint european thermodynamics conference _ , pages 228233 , brescia , 2013 .",
    "cartolibreria snoopy .",
    "isbn 978 - 88 - 89252 - 22 - 2 , arxiv:1305.3582 .",
    "a. effler , r. m. s. schofield , v. v. frolov , g. gonzalez , k. kawabe , j. r. smith , j. birch , r. mccarthy _",
    "environmental influences on the ligo gravitational wave detectors during the 6th science run_. arxiv:1409.5160v1"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> matra gravitational and geophysical laboratory ( mggl ) has been established near gyngysoroszi , hungary in 2015 , in the cavern system of an unused ore mine . </S>",
    "<S> the laboratory is located at 88  m below the surface , with the aim to measure and analyse the advantages of the underground installation of third generation gravitational wave detectors . </S>",
    "<S> specialized instruments have been installed to measure seismic , infrasound , electromagnetic noise , and the variation of the cosmic muon flux . in the preliminary ( run-0 ) test period , march - august 2016 , data collection has been accomplished . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we describe the research potential of the mggl , list the installed equipments and summarize the experimental results of run-0 . a novel theoretical framework of noise damping in rock masses is also introduced . </S>",
    "<S> here we report run-0 data , that prepares systematic and synchronized data collection of the next run period . </S>"
  ]
}