{
  "article_text": [
    "observations of galaxy properties from today back to the early universe are improving at a remarkable pace , thanks to advancing multi - wavelength photometric and spectroscopic galaxy surveys .",
    "progress has been particularly impressive in the near - infrared and longer wavelengths , which provides more robust constraints on stellar and metal content at high redshifts and gas content across all redshifts .",
    "models for galaxy formation thus find it increasingly challenging to be able to reproduce such observations within a physically - motivated concordance cosmology framework .",
    "recent cosmological hydrodynamic simulations have been impressively successful at broadly reproducing key galaxy demographic observables over cosmic time  ( see * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "a primary benchmark used to test galaxy formation models is the observed galaxy stellar mass function ( gsmf ) .",
    "many modern simulations can now match this to within a factor of several over the majority of cosmic time and mass  @xcite , which is typically within the range of current systematic uncertainties in the data .",
    "to do so , all cosmological - scale simulations incorporate heuristic models for feedback processes associated with star formation that suppress galaxy formation at the low - mass end , combined with feedback often associated with active galactic nuclei ( agn ) that suppresses massive galaxy growth . however ,",
    "the precise physical mechanisms invoked for feedback can vary substantially amongst simulations , despite their predicted gsmfs being similar . to further test and discriminate between models , and thereby constrain the physical mechanisms giving rise to feedback , it is thus important to move beyond the gsmf and consider other aspects of galaxy demographics .",
    "advancing multi - wavelength observations have made impressive progress at characterising the gas and metal content of galaxies across cosmic time .",
    "metallicity measures at higher redshifts have been aided by new near - ir spectroscopic capabilities that have enabled the same optical emission line measures used at low redshifts to be applied to @xmath13 galaxies  @xcite .",
    "molecular gas contents have now been measured out to similar redshifts thanks to deep millimetre - wave data that can detect redshifted carbon monoxide ( co ) emission lines  @xcite .",
    "direct measures of atomic gas ( ) remain confined to low redshifts ( @xmath14 ) as of yet owing to the sensitivity of current instruments @xcite , but the square kilometre array ( ska ) and its prescursors such as meerkat aim to probe out to @xmath15 and beyond  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "these observations provide a direct glimpse into the gaseous fuel for star formation , as well as products of massive star formation as traced by chemical enrichment , hence they can more directly probe the baryon cycle of gaseous inflows and outflows that are viewed as being the central driver of cosmological galaxy evolution .",
    "cosmological galaxy formation simulations have utilised these observations to provide additional constraints on feedback mechanisms and other physical processes of galaxy formation  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for instance , the slope of the mass - metallicity relation strongly suggests that low - mass galaxies preferentially eject more of their gas in outflows versus forming it into stars  ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the high gas fraction in low - mass galaxies is likewise a reflection of strong outflows that prevents the gas from forming into stars  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this broadly agrees with the notion that low - mass galaxies must have stronger feedback in order to suppress the faint end of the gsmf  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "while these trends generally point towards a qualitatively similar picture  @xcite , it remains highly challenging for a single model to quantitively reproduce all the relevant observed relations across a wide range of mass scales and cosmic epochs .    in this paper",
    "we present a further analysis on the suite of cosmological hydrodynamic simulations of galaxy formation using gizmo , called the mufasa  simulations , introduced in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper  i ) .",
    "mufasa  uses updated state of the art feedback modules , including two - phase kinetic outflows with scalings taken from the fire simulations  @xcite , an evolving halo mass - based quenching scheme  @xcite , 11-element chemical evolution , and molecular gas - based star formation  @xcite .",
    "we run three volumes , each with @xmath16 dark matter particles and @xmath16 gas elements , having box sizes of 50 , 25 , and @xmath1 , in order to cover halo masses from @xmath17 and stellar masses from @xmath18 .    in paper",
    "i we showed that mufasa  does an excellent job at reproducing the observed evolution of the gsmf over most of cosmic time .",
    "here we compare mufasa  to a wider suite of observations encompassing galaxy sfrs , gas , and metal content , in order to quantitatively examine whether a model that accurately reproduces stellar mass growth can also match these independent properties .",
    "one significant discrepancy seen in paper  i was that specific sfrs ( ssfrs ) at @xmath19 were well below observations , even though galaxy growth rates as measured by gsmf evolution seemed to be in accord with data .",
    "here we further investigate this issue using sfr and ssfr functions over cosmic time .",
    "since mufasa  directly tracks h@xmath2 within galaxies using a sub - grid prescription  @xcite , we investigate and h@xmath2 contents separately , along with their evolution .",
    "galaxy metallicities provide a crucial barometer for feedback , so we compare our predictions to emerging observations out to cosmic noon . simulations naturally predict that deviations from the mean galaxy scaling relations are correlated , in that galaxies at a given stellar mass that are high in sfr are also low in metallicity  @xcite and gas content  @xcite . here",
    "we generalize this analysis across all quantites considered , showing that deviations from the mean relations in sfr , metallicity , , and h@xmath2 versus @xmath12 are all correlated , and we quantify these correlations .",
    "taken together , these results extend the overall success of the mufasa  simulations as a reasonably faithful reproduction of the real universe , thereby highlighting mufasa s utility as a platform to study of the physics of galaxy evolution across cosmic time .",
    "this paper is outlined as follows : in  [ sec : code ] we briefly recap the key ingredients of the mufasa  simulations . ",
    "[ sec : sfr ] discusses predicted sfrs and ssfrs ,  [ sec : mzr ] presents the mass - metallicity relation , and ",
    "[ sec : fgas ] shows gas fractions and gas mass functions . in  [ sec : dev ] we quantify the second - parameter dependences of the scatter around key scaling relations .",
    "we summarize our findings in  [ sec : summary ] .",
    "we employ a modified version of the gravity plus hydrodynamics solver gizmo  @xcite , which uses the gadget-3  gravity solver  @xcite , along with the meshless finite mass ( mfm ) hydrodynamics solver .",
    "we use adaptive gravitational softening throughout for all particles  @xcite , with a minimum ( plummer - equivalent ) softening length set to 0.5% of the mean interparticle spacing . for more details on these aspects as well as the feedback choices summarised below ,",
    "see paper  i.    we include radiative cooling from primordial ( non - equilibrium ionisation ) and heavy elements ( equilibrium ionisation ) using the grackle-2.1 chemistry and cooling library  @xcite .",
    "a spatially - uniform photo - ionising background is assumed , namely the 2011 update of the determination in @xcite .",
    "gas above a threshold density is assumed to have an equation of state given by @xmath20  @xcite , and for the primary run employed in this paper the threshold density is taken to be @xmath21  @xmath22 .",
    "stars are formed using a molecular gas - based prescription following @xcite , which approximates the h@xmath2 fraction based on the local density , the sobolev approximation in which the optical depth is given by @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the particle s density , and the particle s metallicity scaled to solar abundance based on @xcite .",
    "we vary the assumed clumping factor with resolution , as described in paper  i.    young stellar feedback is modeled using decoupled , two - phase winds .",
    "winds are ejected stochastically , with a probability that is @xmath25 times the star formation rate probability . the formula for @xmath25",
    "is taken to be the best - fit relation from the feedback in realistic environments ( fire ) suite of zoom simulations  @xcite , namely @xmath26 where @xmath12 is the galaxy stellar mass determined using an on - the - fly friends - of - friends galaxy finder .",
    "the ejection velocity @xmath27 scaling is also taken to follow that predicted by fire , but with a somewhat higher amplitude : @xmath28 where @xmath29 is the galaxy circular velocity estimated from the friends - of - friends baryonic mass , and @xmath30 accounts for the potential difference between the launch location and one - quarter of the virial radius where @xcite measured the scalings from fire .",
    "winds are also ejected with a random 30% fraction being  hot \" , namely at a temperature set by the difference between the supernova energy and the wind launch energy ( if this is positive ) , with the remaining 70% launched at @xmath31k .",
    "wind fluid elements are allowed to travel without hydrodynamic forces or cooling until such time as its relative velocity versus surrounding ( non - wind ) gas is less than 50% of the local sound speed , or alternatively if it reaches limits in density of 0.01 times the critical density for star formation , or a time given by 2% of the hubble time at launch .",
    "we further include energy type ia supernovae ( snia ) and asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) stars , implemented as a delayed component using stellar evolution as tracked by @xcite models with a @xcite initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "see paper  i for full details .",
    "chemistry is tracked for hydrogen , helium , and 9 metals : c , n , o , ne , mg , si , s , ca , and fe , comprising over 90% of metal mass in the universe .",
    "type  ii sn yields are taken from @xcite , parameterised as a function of metallicity , which we multiply by 0.5 in order to more closely match observed galaxy metallicities .",
    "type  ii yields are added instantaneously to every star - forming gas particles at every timestep , based on its current star formation rate . for snia yields ,",
    "we employ the yields from @xcite , assuming each snia yields @xmath32 of metals . for agb stars ,",
    "we employ enrichment as a function of age and metallicity from various sources as described in @xcite , further assuming a 36% helium fraction and a nitrogen yield of 0.00118 .",
    "the enrichment , like the energy , is added from stars to the nearest 16 gas particles , kernel - weighted , following the mass loss rate as computed assuming a @xcite imf .",
    "we note that ism gas ejected from our simulated galaxies is done so without any modification to its metallicity .",
    "we do not employ a separate ",
    "metal loading factor \" parameter ( i.e. the metallicity of the ejected gas relative to the ism metallicity ) which preferentially ejects enriched  ( or de - enriched , as in illustris ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ism material ; in other words , we assume a metal loading factor of unity .",
    "the physical justification for this is that , particularly in low mass galaxies where the mass loading factor @xmath25 is high , direct supernovae ejectae represent only a very small portion of the total outflowing material , hence it makes sense that the outflow metallicity is dominated by ambient ism gas ( surrounding the launch site ) . in higher - mass galaxies where @xmath25 is low , this assumption can break down , and it may be more appropriate to include a metal loading factor greater than unity . without more detailed modeling ,",
    "it is difficult to determine exactly what the appropriate metal loading factor is , so we eschew this complication for the present .",
    "note that the fire simulations with self - consistently generated outflows find metal loading factors around unity for all galaxies  @xcite , supporting our assumption .    to quench massive galaxies , we employ an on - the - fly halo mass - based quenching scheme that follows @xcite .",
    "above a halo quenching mass @xmath33 , we maintain all halo gas at a temperature above the system virial temperature , by continuously adding heat .",
    "this is intended to mimic the effects of  radio mode \" or",
    " jet mode \" quenching @xcite , where jets inflate superbubbles in surrounding hot gas which approximately sphericalises the jet energy and counteracts gas cooling  @xcite .",
    "we only add heat to gas that is not self - shielded , defined as having a neutral ( atomic+molecular ) fraction above 10% after applying a self - shielding correction following @xcite .",
    "we take @xmath33 as determined from the analytic  equilibrium model \" constraints required to match the observed evolution of the galaxy population from @xmath34  @xcite , namely : @xmath35 as demonstrated in paper  i this evolving quenching mass is nicely consistent with observations during early epochs ( @xmath7 ) and today , while providing a sharp turnover in the stellar mass function at late epochs that closely matches observations .",
    "paper  i focused on the @xmath36 mufasa  simulation using @xmath16 gas fluid elements ( i.e. mass - conserving cells ) , @xmath16 dark matter particles , and @xmath37 minimum softening length .",
    "table  i of paper  i lists the details for two higher - resolution runs with the identical input physics and number of particles , having box sizes of @xmath38 and @xmath1 and proportionally smaller softening lengths . at that time , these simulations were only evolved to @xmath39 , but since then we have evolved the @xmath38 volume to @xmath40 and the @xmath1 run to @xmath41 .",
    "we will use these to extend the dynamic range of our predictions and to test resolution convergence .",
    "we generate initial conditions at @xmath42 using music  @xcite assuming a cosmology consistent with @xcite  full likelihood \" constraints : @xmath43 , @xmath44 , @xmath45 , @xmath46 , @xmath47 , and @xmath48 .",
    "we output 135 snapshots down to @xmath40 ( 105 to @xmath41 ) .",
    "we analyse the snapshots using sphgr - yt @xcite , which identifies galaxies using skid and halos using rockstar  @xcite , links them via their positions , and outputs a catalog of properties required for all the analyses in this paper .",
    "paper  i compared mufasa  to the evolution of the stellar mass function , showing general agreement with the growth of the stellar content of galaxies across much of cosmic time . however , it also reiterated a longstanding discrepancy in predictions of ssfrs at a given @xmath12 , i.e. the main sequence , during the peak epoch of cosmic star formation , in which simulated galaxies have @xmath49 lower sfrs compared to observations at @xmath7 . here",
    "we explore the distribution of sfrs in more detail , by comparing mufasa  to two other sfr observables , namely the star formation rate function and the specific star formation rate function .",
    "-0.1 in    figure  [ fig : sfrfunc ] shows sfr functions ( sfrfs ) at @xmath50 from our suite of mufasa  simulations . the red solid , green dashed , and blue dotted curves show the results from our @xmath36 , @xmath38 , and @xmath1 ( at @xmath51 ) simulations .",
    "the hatched region shows cosmic variance as computed over the 8 sub - octants within each simulation volume .",
    "the vertical dotted line indicates the typical sfr at the steller mass resolution limit of 32 gas particle masses from a fit to the @xmath52sfr relation ; below this , the distribution of sfrs is expected to be significantly compromised by numerical resolution , and even above this sfr there may be some galaxies that are impacted by poor resolution owing to the scatter in the @xmath52sfr relation .",
    "hence this line should be regarded as an approximate rather than a strict resolution limit .",
    "indeed , one can see from comparing the various simulations sfr functions at the same sfr that the lack of resolution convergence seems to begin significantly above the dotted line .",
    "observations are shown in the various panels from @xmath53 luminosity functions , converted to sfr using the relation taken from @xcite , adjusted for a chabrier imf . at @xmath54 ,",
    "we show data from ( * ? ? ?",
    "* dotted black ) and ( * ? ? ?",
    "* dashed black ) , at @xmath15 from @xcite , and at @xmath7 from @xcite .",
    "all these observations account for extinction based on considering h@xmath55 and sometimes more , but there is still uncertainty in such corrections .    at @xmath40 ,",
    "the simulated sfrf are in good agreement with @xcite , but overpredict by up to @xmath56 the more recent @xcite data from the galaxy and mass assembly ( gama ) survey .",
    "this implies that there are several times more sfgs with sfr@xmath57yr@xmath58 in mufasa  than in the real universe .",
    "it is possible that h@xmath59 surveys miss the most highly star - forming galaxies since they are typically highly obscured .",
    "this could be mitigated by examining far - ir based sfr estimators , but that introduces the additional complexity of subtracting off the agn contribution to the total flux , which is often substantial in luminous ir galaxies .",
    "this discrepancy is consistent with the finding in paper  i ( see their figure  3 ) that the cosmic sfr density is overpredicted by @xmath60 at @xmath40 in mufasa . hence mufasa s predictions for the sfrf today are broadly consistent with data , but with a notable overprediction of galaxies with sfrs comparable to or exceeding that of the milky way .    at @xmath41 ,",
    "the predicted sfrf is similar to that at @xmath40 at low sfrs , but shows an excess at high sfrs , such that now we start to see galaxies with sfr@xmath61yr@xmath58 in our @xmath36 volume .",
    "the sfrf does not show as strong a truncation at high - sfr as it does at low-@xmath62 .",
    "generally , mufasa  exceeds observations at high sfrs , albeit with the same caveats regarding highly obscured galaxies that become more prevalent at high @xmath62 .    at @xmath39 ,",
    "the trend continues that the low - sfr end is mostly unevolving but the high - sfr end is more highly populated .",
    "once again there is an excess in mufasa  relative to data , but it is fairly mild at this epoch . interestingly , although mufasa  seems to reproduce the gsmf well at this epoch , and if anything the sfrf is overpredicted , it nonetheless yields an sfr@xmath63 relation that is clearly too low  ( paper  i ) .",
    "notably , the main sequence is typically derived from uv and/or rest - near infrared measures of sfr , not h@xmath59 .",
    "it is possible that various systematics operate differently at this epoch among the various observational sfr indicators .",
    "it is beyond the scope of this work to fully examine all the relevant systematics , but it highlights that , leaving aside the models , there appears to be some consistency issues purely among observational measures of sfrs during cosmic noon .    in summary ,",
    "the sfrfs predicted by mufasa  generally show the observed shape from @xmath34 , though with an amplitude that is somewhat too high at low redshifts .",
    "the broad agreement is encouraging and may be within current systematic uncertainties in measuring a complete sample of star - forming galaxies across all these epochs .",
    "there is no obvious discrepancy in the sfrf at @xmath39 that would explain the discrepancy in the sfr@xmath63 relation .",
    "resolution convergence in the sfrf between the various mufasa  volumes is reasonable , though not ideal .",
    "-0.1 in    a separate test of sfrs is whether our simulations reproduce the correct distribution of specific star formation rates at a given stellar mass .",
    "qualitatively , at high redshifts the spread in ssfrs measures the fluctuations around the main sequence owing to inflow fluctuations  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while at lower redshifts a substantial low - ssfr population appears corresponding to quenched galaxies .",
    "matching the amplitude and evolution of the distribution of ssfrs in stellar mass bins is thus a stringent test of whether the predicted mufasa  galaxy population is in accord with the rate at which galaxies are fluctuating around the main sequence , and eventually quenched  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "figure  [ fig : ssfrdist ] shows the specific star formation rate function ( ssfrf ) in four bins of stellar mass from @xmath64 ( left to right ) , at @xmath65 ( top to bottom ) .",
    "we only consider the @xmath36 here volume for clarity , particularly since we want to well sample the rate of galaxy quenching for which we prefer our largest volume containing the most massive halos .",
    "lines show the predicted ssfrf , while the hatched region shows the cosmic variance computed among 8 sub - octants .",
    "observations are shown from a compilation by @xcite at @xmath66 and @xmath67 , from various sources as described in the caption , generally from extinction - corrected uv measures or sed fitting .",
    "note that the observations only consider galaxies which have a measurable sfr , which we mimic in our simulations by excluding galaxies with @xmath68  ssfr@xmath69 ( which would lie off this plot in any case ) .    at @xmath70",
    ", the ssfrf shows a peak at the median ssfr within that @xmath12 bin , a sharp truncation to higher ssfr , and a broader extension to low ssfr corresponding to green valley galaxies .",
    "mufasaprovides a remarkably good match ( i.e. within cosmic variance ) to the observed ssfrf in every stellar mass bin .",
    "this new test of models demonstrates that the scatter in ssfrs , and hence the fluctuations around the main sequence as well as the rate at which the green valley is being populated , is being well modeled in mufasa .",
    "in particular , the amplitude and shape match in the most massive bin would suggest that mufasa  is not overproducing the number of galaxies with high ssfrs , even if figure  [ fig : sfrfunc ] suggested that it might be doing so .",
    "these can be reconciled if mufasa  is producing a few too many massive galaxies , which is indeed a trend noted in the @xmath40 gsmf shown in paper  i , albeit with large cosmic variance .    at @xmath41 , the shape of the ssfrf",
    "is well reproduced , but there is clearly an offset in the distribution such that the predicted values are lower by @xmath71 .",
    "this is simply reflecting the fact that the median ssfr is underproduced at this epoch , as shown in paper  i , continuing a trend generically seen in cosmological galaxy formation models .",
    "it appears that the discrepancy in the median ssfr is not reflective of the emergence of some new population of galaxies in observations that do not appear in the models , but rather an overall systematic shift in the measured ssfr values at that epoch .",
    "we would expect that these trends would continue on to @xmath39 , but we do not know of ssfrfs published at this epoch .",
    "overall , mufasa  does an excellent job of reproducing the low-@xmath62 distribution of ssfrs , including the peak value , the sharp truncation to high ssfrs that highlights the rarity of starbursts locally , and the gradual decline towards low - ssfr that reflects the population of galaxies likely in the process of quenching .",
    "there are still a non - trivial number of sfgs even at the highest masses in mufasa , which is in agreement with observations .",
    "this suggests that mufasadoes a good job reproducing the sfr fluctuations and quenching rate of galaxies , which provides some empirical support for the implemented subgrid models for star formation and quenching .",
    "chemical enrichment provides a key tracer for star formation and feedback activity in and around galaxies . within a simple equilibrium or bathtub - type model ,",
    "the mass - metallicity relation directly reflects the mass loss rate in outflows together with the recycling of previously - ejected ( enriched ) material back into the ism  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "galaxy metallicities are thus a crucial test for how accurately a particular model is representing the baryon cycle .    the stellar mass  gas phase metallicity relation ( mzr ) is one of the tightest observed correlation between any two galaxy properties , with a scatter typically around 0.1  dex  @xcite . unfortunately , calibration issues may add significant systematic uncertainties  @xcite , but nonetheless the shape of the mzr is likely to be reasonably robust even if the amplitude is less certain . in this section we present predictions for the mzr from mufasa , along with comparisons to key observations at the present epoch and in the early universe .",
    "-0.1 in    figure  [ fig : mzr ] shows the mzr at @xmath72 ( left , right panels ) in our mufasa  simulation suite . at @xmath39",
    ", we have overplotted all three volumes down to each of their galaxy stellar mass resolution limit ; these are the three  groupings \" of points , with the @xmath1 volume extending to the lowest masses , and the @xmath36 volume dominating at high masses . at @xmath40",
    ", we only have the @xmath36 and @xmath38 volumes .",
    "the thick red line shows a running median for the combined sample of simulated galaxies ; while we do not show the individual volumes medians separately , it is evident that the agreement between them is reasonable in the overlapping mass ranges , as there is no significant break in the median fit when crossing over a mass resolution threshold , though higher - resolution simulations tend to predict slightly higher metallicities at a given mass .",
    "the colour coding shows the deviation in @xmath68  sfr for each galaxy off of the global @xmath52sfr relation at that redshift ( paper  i ) .",
    "observations at @xmath40 are shown from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) , via nebular line fitting  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* black solid line ) and  direct \" abundance measures from stacked spectra  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* grey dashed line ) . at @xmath39 ,",
    "we show observations from the mosfire deep evolutionary field ( mosdef ) survey  @xcite using o3n2 abundances obtained from near - infrared keck spectroscopy  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* points with errorbars ; ) .",
    "broadly , the agreement between mufasa  and observations is fairly good .",
    "the faint - end slope is generally consistent with data at both redshifts , and at high-@xmath62 it can be seen that the simulated mzr slope extends unabated to much lower masses than can be observed prior to the _ james webb space telescope_. at the massive end , there is clearly a turnover at low redshifts above @xmath73 , and even at @xmath39 there is a hint of a similar turnover though even the @xmath36 volume does not adequately probe the very high - mass end at that epoch .    at low masses , there is @xmath74  dex increase in the metallicity at a fixed @xmath12 from @xmath75 .",
    "the evolution is slightly less at high masses , creating a more prominent flat portion of the mzr .",
    "this amount of evolution , and the trend of a more prominent turnover at low masses , is generally consistent with observations  @xcite .    a more careful comparison to mzr data reveals some notable discrepancies .",
    "most obviously , there is a clear overprediction of the metallicity at @xmath76 at @xmath40 .",
    "it appears that the high - mass flattening begins at a lower mass scale in the data as compared to in mufasa , which continues with an unabated power - law up to nearly @xmath77 before flattening .",
    "there is even a hint of such an overproduction at @xmath39 ; while the overall amplitude is slightly too large compared to these observations at all masses , this is particularly exacerbated for the highest mass bin .",
    "one possibility for reconciling this in the models would be that the metal loading factor at @xmath76 should be greater than unity , which would preferentially eject a higher fraction of metals out of high mass galaxies .",
    "alternatively , it could be that the models have excess wind recycling at high masses ; we will examine mass flows and recycling in detail in future work .",
    "one can also see that the low - mass end of the mzr is in better agreement with the @xcite nebular line mzr than the direct abundances measures by @xcite .",
    "such discrepancies between observational analyses highlight the difficulty in robustly calibrating metallicity indicators  @xcite . moreover , at high redshifts it is possible that the typical stellar population in @xmath7 star - forming galaxies may be substantially different than that at low redshifts  @xcite , which could alter the usual metallicity calibrations applied to nebular emission line measures . in light of this",
    ", the disagreements between mufasa  mzr predictions and observed may be regarded as preliminary .",
    "finally , the colours of the points show a clear trend that galaxies with low ssfr at a given mass will have high metallicity , and vice versa .",
    "this has been noted in data  @xcite , and @xcite dubbed this the fundamental metallicity relation ( fmr ) because they further argued that the sfr@xmath78 relation was also redshift - independent .",
    "more recent results have called into question whether the fmr is truly redshift independent  @xcite , and also whether it is even seen at high redshift  @xcite .",
    "however , it appears that the samples at @xmath7 may not be sufficient for such a trend to have been apparent , and moreover calibration issues can mask such subtle correlations  @xcite .",
    "it is thus unclear whether the fmr exists at @xmath7 observationally .",
    "we will discuss this second - parameter dependence of the mzr on the ssfr further in ",
    "[ sec : dev ] .    in mufasa ,",
    "the general trend of the sfr@xmath78 relation is apparent at both @xmath40 and @xmath39 .",
    "however , the predicted mzr is notably tighter at @xmath40 ( typical variance of @xmath79 dex around the mean relation ) than at @xmath39 ( @xmath80 dex ) .",
    "by @xmath39 , the most metal - rich galaxies already have metallicities comparable to the most metal - rich objects at @xmath40 , across all @xmath12 , while the most metal - poor objects are much less enriched .",
    "the physical explanation for the second - parameter correlation with sfr is that an increase in gas accretion will bring in metal - poor gas while fueling new star formation , and conversely a lull in accretion will result in an evolution more similar to a closed box that will raise the metallicity quickly by consuming its gas  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "as pointed out in @xcite , the lull is permanent for satellite galaxies , causing them to reach a slightly higher metallicity at a given mass before running out of fuel , as observed  @xcite ; though we do nt show it here , this is true in mufasa  as well .",
    "hence in the fluctuating ",
    "smooth accretion \" scenario for galaxy fueling  @xcite , the fmr is a natural outcome , and the scatter about the relation reflects the frequency and impact of accretion flucutations such as mergers .",
    "confirming the reality of the fmr at @xmath81 is thus a crucial test of this scenario . in  [ sec : dev ] we will quantify predictions for this second - parameter correlation that can be tested against present and future observations .",
    "-0.1 in    figure  [ fig : mzrevol ] shows the evolution of the mzr from @xmath82 , computed as a running median from the combined sample of 3 runs .",
    "the mzr shows a constant low-@xmath12 power - law slope of @xmath83 at all redshifts . at the lowest redshifts",
    ", there is the onset of a flattening in the mzr at @xmath84 .",
    "the mzr rises steadily but slowly with time . at a given mass ( below the flattening ) , the evolution is approximately 0.2  dex out to @xmath15 , and then 0.1  dex per unit redshift out to @xmath85 , and no further evolution to @xmath86 . in @xcite it was argued that , barring any evolution in @xmath25 with @xmath12 ( mufasa  assumes none ) , then the evolution of the mzr must reflect the enrichment level of accreted material , i.e. wind recycling .",
    "it remains to be seen if such a scenario is consistent with a mass - independent increase in the metallicity down to quite low masses .",
    "qualitatively , the generally slow evolution and the onset of a high - mass flattened portion at lower redshifts is consistent with observations  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as data - constrained analytic models of galaxy evolution  @xcite . however , the mass at which the flattening occurs is generally much higher in mufasa  than in such data , where the onset of flattening is typically below @xmath87 .",
    "this again reflects the fact that mufasa  appears to produce too steep an mzr at @xmath88 .",
    "overall , the slope and evolution of the mzr is in broad agreement with observations , showing mild evolution out to @xmath85 .",
    "however , there is a key discrepancy around @xmath89 galaxies that bears further investigation . in future work",
    "we will examine the detailed origin for the evolution of the mzr , highlighting contributions from in situ enrichment versus pre - enriched accreted gas .",
    "the gas content of galaxies provides a measure of the fuel available for new star formation .",
    "molecular gas ( h@xmath2 ) directly traces material that is forming into stars , while atomic gas ( ) typically resides in a more extended reservoir that connects the ionised igm with the molecular ism .",
    "hence the gas content of galaxies represents a combination of the effects of how gas is converted into stars within the ism , as well as the processes that fuel new star formation via gas from the igm .",
    "observationally , it is generally believed that the atomic gas in galaxies evolves slowly out to high redshifts , while molecular gas evolves more rapidly upwards .",
    "the canonical explanation for this is that represents a transient reservoir which does not directly trace star formation , while h@xmath2 traces star - forming gas much more closely and hence drops with time in a manner similar to what is seen for the cosmic star formation rate .    in actuality , the story is more subtle . in simple terms",
    "one can rewrite the ratio of star - forming gas to stars as @xmath90 where the first term is the depletion time and the second term is the specific sfr  ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) . given a fixed depletion time ,",
    "one then expects the gas content of high redshift galaxies to be increased .",
    "however , one also expects the depletion time to be reduced to higher redshifts , since galaxies typically form a relatively fixed fraction of their gas into stars per dynamical time  @xcite , and disk dynamical times are expected to scale approximately with the hubble time  @xcite .",
    "if ssfr@xmath91 , and @xmath92 , then one gets approximately @xmath93 .",
    "hence galaxies are expected to have higher star - forming gas fractions at earlier epochs .    meanwhile , the evolution of atomic hydrogen is not so straightforward to predict . in the simplest model",
    "where the timescale to pass through the atomic phase also scales with the halo ( or , equivalently , disk ) dynamical time , should follow h@xmath2 .",
    "but physically , atomic gas occurs when gas can self - shield against ionising radiation , yet is not dense enough to be molecular ( i.e. to self - shield against h@xmath2 dissociating radiation ) . at high redshifts , gas is physically denser and accretion is more filamentary  @xcite , but the ionising background is stronger .",
    "which effect wins will depend on the detailed interplay of how gas is accreted around galaxies .    in this section",
    "we examine how the atomic , molecular , and total neutral ( atomic+molecular ) gas evolves within galaxies , as a function of stellar mass , in terms of mass functions , and globally as a cosmic mass density .",
    "-0.1 in    mufasa , like many recent simulations of galaxy formation , tracks the amount of molecular gas formed in galaxies .",
    "owing to limitations of resolution , this is done via a sub - resolution prescription as described in paper  i , broadly following @xcite with minor additions .    meanwhile , the atomic gas fraction is typically significant only in regions that are able to self - shield against the cosmic metagalactic flux ( ignoring , as we do here , ionising radiation emitted locally by the galaxy itself ) .",
    "hence we must account for self - shielding in order to separate the neutral gas from the ionised gas .",
    "we follow the prescription in @xcite for determining the self - shielded fraction .",
    "they provide a fitting formula to the attenuation in the cosmic metagalactic flux as a function of local density , based on full radiative transfer simulations .",
    "given the attenuated ionising flux impinging on each gas particle , we then compute the rate balance equations to determine the equilibrium atomic fraction following @xcite . for particles at low densities ( @xmath94@xmath22 )",
    "the gas is generally optically thin , but above this density one quickly gets more self - shielded gas , increasing the fraction to unity typically above @xmath95@xmath22 . from this self - shielded gas",
    ", we then subtract the molecular fraction as tracked directly in the simulation , which yields the atomic fraction .",
    "we compute a galaxy s content by summing all atomic gas that is more gravitationally bound to that galaxy relative to any other galaxy , using the total baryonic mass to compute the gravitational binding . in practice",
    ", we do not consider gas with @xmath96  @xmath22 since this is never self - shielded and thus contributes negligibly to the total content .",
    "figure  [ fig : fgas ] shows the total ( + h@xmath2 ) ( top panel ) , molecular ( middle ) , and atomic ( bottom ) gas fractions as a function of stellar mass at @xmath40 .",
    "the solid black line shows a running median for the fiducial @xmath36 volume .",
    "the overlaid hexbins are colour - coded by the average ssfr at that gas fraction relative to the global average ssfr at the given @xmath12 .",
    "the dashed line shows a similar running median for the @xmath38 run , to illustrate the level of resolution convergence .    in the top panel , the total gas fraction as a function of @xmath12 in the @xmath36 run is in excellent agreement with a compilation of observations by @xcite over most of the mass range .",
    "at the highest masses , the observations lie above the model predictions . while these data only include galaxies where gas was detected , and many of the simulated galaxies have such low gas fractions that they would likely evade detection , since there are no predicted galaxies at all at the median total gas fraction , it appears at face value that the discrepancy is real . for @xmath97 , however , galaxy samples are quite complete , and hence the agreement is a robust success of the models .",
    "the middle panel shows that the molecular gas fractions are likewise in good agreement with observations from the coldgass survey  @xcite , as well as the herschel reference survey  ( hrs ; * ? ? ?",
    "coldgass  @xcite is an @xmath12-complete survey and hence is quite directly comparable to our simulated galaxies .",
    "mufasa  even traces the slight turn - down in @xmath98 at @xmath99 relative to an extrapolated trend from lower masses , which is indicative of a typical mass scale at which quenching kicks in .",
    "the atomic gas fractions are compared to data from the gass survey  @xcite , which is the parent survey of coldgass and hence also a @xmath12-selected sample of sdss galaxies down to very low fractions . at low masses ( @xmath100 )",
    "there is quite good agreement with the gass data , which again is a non - trivial success .",
    "however , our @xmath36 volume predicts a sharp drop in @xmath101 above this mass , whereas the data show a more gradual trend .",
    "this is likely the origin of the discrepancy in the total gas fraction at these masses , since @xmath98 shows good agreement in this mass range .",
    "the @xmath38 volume ( dashed lines ) consistently shows lower gas content at @xmath87 , and thus a shallower trend with @xmath12 that results in a @xmath71 deficit with respect to the @xmath36 volume at the lowest probed masses .",
    "the deficit is essentially identical in both and h@xmath2 , which suggests that gas consumption is more rapid in the @xmath38 volume , likely owing to its higher resolution that achieves higher densities where more rapid star formation can occur .",
    "interestingly , this volume shows no  dip \" in the , and hence total gas , content at @xmath102 , indicating that the disagreement in the @xmath36 may be a peculiarity in that simulation or else some issue with resolution convergence in terms of the way it interacts with the quenching model .",
    "one possibility is that the @xmath38 is able to self - shield gas in massive halos more effectively owing to its ability to resolve clumpier structures , and thus the quenching model is less impactful here since by construction it only operates on non - self - shielded gas . in any case , at high and low masses it appears that resolution convergence is not ideal for predicting gas fractions , and the resulting systematic uncertainties are of the order of a factor of two .",
    "the coloured hexbins show that at a given @xmath12 , both molecular and atomic gas content are highly correlated with ongoing star formation . in both cases ,",
    "galaxies with enhanced gas content for their @xmath12 also have higher ssfr .",
    "the trend appears to be qualitatively stronger in the molecular case , which is unsurprising since stars form out of molecular gas in our simulations .",
    "nonetheless it is also clearly present in the atomic gas , indicating that the reservoir plays a role in regulating star formation even if it is not directly forming stars .",
    "this is qualitatively consistent with observations that show more low - metallicity gas in the outskirts of bluer ( i.e. higher ssfr ) galaxies  @xcite .    as with the metallicity ,",
    "the qualitative explanation of this is that a temporary enhancement ( lull ) of accretion results in both increased ( decreased ) gas content and star formation , along with the aforementioned reduction ( increase ) in metallicity .",
    "since it takes some time for the inflowing gas to first turn into atomic gas and then molecular and finally stars , the molecular gas content is expected to be more highly correlated with the sfr .",
    "hence as with the fmr , the second parameter dependence of gas content on sfr most directly reflects fluctuations in the inflow rate  @xcite ; we will quantify this in  [ sec : dev ] .",
    "other models that track molecular and atomic gas generally predict and h@xmath2 fractions broadly in accord with observations , be they semi - analytic  @xcite or state - of - the - art hydrodynamic models such as eagle  @xcite . together with mufasa",
    "s success , this suggests that the overall gas content is a fairly robustly predictable quantity in models , at least at @xmath40 .",
    "we note that all these models ( including ours ) have been tuned at various levels in order to match the present - day stellar mass function",
    ". it may be that predicting this correctly , plus having a molecular gas - based prescription for converting gas into stars , generically leaves the proper amount of gas in galaxies .",
    "if so , this represents a non - trivial success for current models of galaxy formation .",
    "-0.1 in    galaxies at a given mass are observed to be more molecular gas - rich at earlier epochs  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the amount of evolution is subject to some uncertainties regarding the conversion between the observed co intensity and the molecular gas mass  ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but this is unlikely to erase the qualitative trend .",
    "far - ir dust continuum measures can also be used to probe gas content evolution , though likewise subject to some uncertainties regarding the conversion of dust to gas mass  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; in general , such studies tend to find less strong evolution than co - based studies .",
    "neutral gas above @xmath103 is currently only observable in absorption line studies such as with absorbers  @xcite or damped lyman alpha ( dla ) systems  @xcite ; it is not obvious how these systems trace galaxies , as it is usually challenging to identify the individual galaxy giving rise to such absorbers , though clustering measures offer some general guide that they typically live in @xmath104 halos  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "measuring  fractions requires having a measure of the stellar mass from optical or near - ir data for individual galaxies , for which 21  cm emission can be observed .",
    "while current -21  cm surveys only probe to @xmath105  @xcite , upcoming radio telescopes promise to push direct -21  cm gas content measures in optically - selected samples out to @xmath106 , for example using the new meerkat telescope  @xcite , and will be further advanced with the ska . here",
    "we make testable predictions for gas fractions which can guide such efforts .",
    "figure  [ fig : fgasevol ] shows the evolution at @xmath107 of the median total ( + h@xmath2 ) gas fraction versus stellar mass from the @xmath36 mufasa  run in the top panel , and the next two panels show this subdivided into molecular and atomic gas fractions .",
    "the @xmath40 curve is identical to that in figure  [ fig : fgas ] , but here we also show show with shading the cosmic variance estimated via jackknife resampling over 8 volume sub - octants . here",
    "we do not show the second - parameter dependence on sfr as we did in figure  [ fig : fgas ] , but a similar trend persists at all redshifts .",
    "we do not explicitly show any observations on this plot , since molecular gas observations span some range depending on the type of data , while atomic gas fraction measures do not yet exist at @xmath108 .",
    "the total gas content of galaxies at a given @xmath12 is higher at earlier epochs .",
    "there appears to be some mild mass dependence to this statement , as high - mass galaxies lose their gas more quickly than low - mass galaxies , with an overall effect of steepening the @xmath109 relation .",
    "much of the evolution occurs from @xmath110 , prior to which the evolution was somewhat slower .",
    "neutral hydrogen ( bottom panel ) represents the majority of the cold gas content of galaxies at almost all epochs and masses , except at high masses today .",
    "hence the evolutionary trends in fraction tend to drive those of the total gas content .",
    "the strong evolution particularly at high masses out to @xmath15 is good news for upcoming surveys designed to measure 21  cm emission from galaxies out to this epoch such as laduma , and will figure prominently in the evolution of the mass function discussed in ",
    "[ sec : himf ] .",
    "although we do nt show it , the @xmath38 box actually shows quite good resolution convergence with the @xmath36 box shown here for all redshifts _ except _ @xmath40 . at @xmath40",
    ", the @xmath38 volume shows a flatter relation ( as seen in figure  [ fig : fgas ] ) , but at higher-@xmath62 the relations are similar , which implies less mass dependence to the evolution .",
    "hence one should regard the detailed mass dependence of the evolution as a less robust prediction .",
    "the trend to earlier epochs for the molecular gas ( middle panel ) is broadly similar to that for the atomic gas , in that it is increasing at all masses .",
    "there is a steady decrease in @xmath98 with time across all @xmath12 of about @xmath111 dex between @xmath112 , with only a very slight trend for more evolution at the highest masses .",
    "predicted gas fractions continue to increase at a given @xmath12 out to @xmath113 , so we expect even more gas - rich galaxies at high masses , but unfortunately even alma will have difficulty measuring the molecular content at these epochs except in the very largest systems  @xcite .    comparing to observations",
    ", it appears that mufasa  predicts h@xmath2 fractions that are too low versus data at @xmath4 .",
    "co - based gas fractions from @xcite show a large scatter but generally lie between @xmath114% for the most massive galaxies , and 50% for moderate - mass galaxies .",
    "to lower masses , fractions up to 90% are inferred for the smallest @xmath7 galaxies by inverting the @xcite relation  ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the dust continuum - based measures from @xcite also show typically molecular fractions of @xmath114% for main sequence galaxies at @xmath4 , and even higher for starbursts .",
    "in contrast , mufasapredicts @xmath39 gas fractions of @xmath115 for massive ( @xmath116 ) galaxies , and only up to @xmath117 ( relative to the molecular+stellar mass ) for the smallest galaxies that are well below the what can be probed directly with observations .",
    "hence in general it appears that mufasa  high-@xmath62 gas fractions are too low by @xmath71 .",
    "given the uncertainties this is not a gross failure , but it is notable .",
    "such low high-@xmath62 molecular gas fractions are predicted in other simulations and sams as well  @xcite .",
    "this may be partially but certainly not completely explained by selection effects in which targeted co observations tend to select highly star - forming ( and thus gas - rich ) galaxies ; @xcite accounted for this and still found generally higher @xmath98 than predicted here .",
    "another possibility is that locally - calibrated co - to - h@xmath2 conversion factors may not be correct at high-@xmath62 ; we will explore this issue in more depth in  [ sec : colf ] .",
    "nonetheless , at face value it appears that many models including mufasa  struggle to reproduce quite as high gas fractions as inferred for massive high-@xmath62 galaxies .",
    "-0.1 in    the mass function ( himf ) combines information from the galaxy mass function and fractions to provide a complementary constraint on models .",
    "observations of the himf extend to quite low masses locally thanks to deep surveys with the arecibo telescope such as the -selected the arecibo legacy fast alfa survey  ( alfalfa ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the stellar mass - selected galex arecibo sdss survey  ( gass ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , the sensitivity of current instrumentation precludes characterisation of the himf at significantly higher redshifts .",
    "the ska and its precursors aim to improve on this , and hence predictions for the evolution of the himf are useful for quantifying expectations for upcoming surveys such as the looking at the distant universe with the meerkat array  ( laduma ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) survey .",
    "figure  [ fig : himf ] shows the predicted himf from mufasa , showing the three volumes in different colours with cosmic variance ( shading ) estimated as before , from the variance of the himf in each of the 8 sub - octants within each simulation volume .",
    "as discussed in paper  i , this is likely to somewhat underestimate the true cosmic variance .",
    "the three panels show the himf at @xmath50 from top to bottom .",
    "the alfalfa mass function at @xmath118 is shown as the thick black dashed line , and this is reproduced in the other redshift panels to better visualise the amount of evolution in the models ; however , direct comparison to mufasa  should only be made at @xmath40 .",
    "the top panel shows that mufasa  provides a reasonable match to the observed himf , in the resolved range . at @xmath119",
    ", the @xmath36 volume shows a departure from the data , but the higher resolution run continues unabated , suggesting that the turnover at low masses is an artifact of numerical resolution .",
    "indeed , if one combines the stellar mass resolution limit of @xmath120 with the fact that galaxies at that @xmath12 have an fraction of around two ( figure  [ fig : fgas ] ) , this suggests that galaxies with @xmath121 will suffer from incompleteness in our simulations .",
    "the @xmath38 volume extends another factor of almost 8 lower in mass before turning over , as expected from its @xmath122 higher mass resolution .    the agreement of mufasa  with both the stellar mass function ( paper  i ) and the himf is an important success .",
    "previous simulations by @xcite also showed good agreement with data for both , even when subdivided into stellar mass bins @xcite .",
    "the eagle simulation likewise shows good agreement with both  @xcite , including subdivided into @xmath12 bins  @xcite .",
    "however , semi - analytic models constrained to match the stellar mass function do nt necessarily agree well with the himf  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the sams of @xcite do fairly well at @xmath123 , but predict a significant upturn to lower masses that is not observed . such an upturn is also seen in the older overwhelmingly large simulations ( owls ) himf as well  @xcite .",
    "the semi - empirical model of @xcite likewise produces a steep faint end of the himf , deviating strongly at @xmath121 . in simulations such as mufasa , represents a transient reservoir of cold gas infalling into a galaxy , as demonstrated in @xcite ; such a dynamic origin suggests that fully dynamical models are best suited to make predictions for the nature and evolution of in galaxies .",
    "it appears that the low - mass ( @xmath121 ) himf may be a key discriminant for the dynamics of gas infall .",
    "looking at the evolution to @xmath41 , we see that the himf is best described by an overall increase in the mass of in each galaxy by a factor of @xmath49 , particularly at the massive end .",
    "this is consistent with the evolution seen in figure  [ fig : fgasevol ] .",
    "this is good news for surveys such as laduma that will probe the bright end of the himf at these redshifts ; in future work we will make more specific predictions for laduma .",
    "interestingly , this is somewhat contrary to the trend predicted by our previous simulations in @xcite , which showed a steepening of the himf to higher redshifts , but the massive end was generally unchanged or lowered .",
    "this is because the fraction in the @xcite simulations was invariant with redshift , whereas in mufasa  galaxies are substantially more -rich , particularly at high masses .    from @xmath41 to 2",
    ", the main trend is that the himf is steeper at low masses , while the massive end does not evolve significantly .",
    "this is driven by the steepening of the stellar mass function , since the fraction if anything has a shallower trend with stellar mass at higher redshifts ( figure  [ fig : fgasevol ] ) .",
    "this general trend agrees better with that in @xcite .",
    "overall , the himf in mufasa  at @xmath40 is a reasonable match to observations , even though the dynamic range is limited compared to other simulations such as eagle . by combining various box sizes",
    ", we can span a similar dynamic range , and the himf shows good resolution convergence in the overlapping mass range .",
    "mufasa  predicts a noticeably higher himf at @xmath15 , and then a steepening trend to @xmath7 , which must await future ska and pathfinder telescope data for testing .",
    "-0.1 in    the mass function of molecular gas is more complicated to determine than that of atomic gas , since observations typically do not directly trace h@xmath2 but rather some proxy such as co. for ordinary ( non - starburst ) galaxies , canonically the best proxy for h@xmath2 is the @xmath124 rotational transition of co. nonetheless , this still requires a conversion factor ( @xmath125 ) to obtain the h@xmath2 mass , and the dependence of @xmath125 on the intrinsic properties of galaxies such as star formation rate and metallicity is uncertain .",
    "this becomes particularly problematic at high redshifts , where the ism conditions in typical main sequence galaxies vary substantially from that today .",
    "a typical assumption is that galaxies that are near the main sequence have  milky way - like \" @xmath126 , whereas starbursts have @xmath127  @xcite .",
    "however , substantial work has gone into predicting @xmath125 based on galaxy properties from detailed simulations , yielding a continuous rather than bimodal trend . in particular , @xcite used zoom simulations together with a co line radiative transfer code to develop an approximate fitting function for @xmath125 as a function of h@xmath2 surface density and metallicity : @xmath128 where @xmath129 is the metallicity in solar units .    here",
    ", we use this formula to compute @xmath125 individually for each galaxy , obtaining @xmath130 by dividing the h@xmath2 half - mass of each galaxy by the area computed from the h@xmath2 half - mass radius . using this @xmath125",
    ", we then convert our simulated h@xmath2 masses into co luminosities ( @xmath131 ) , which can be compared more directly against observations . in this way",
    ", we specifically account for the metal and gas content evolution in co - to - h@xmath2 conversions when comparing to observations .",
    "this is analogous to the approach in @xcite , except that here we convert simulated galaxies to get @xmath131 , while they took the converse approach of converting observations into @xmath132 to compare with models .",
    "however , we will see that our conclusions are similar .",
    "figure  [ fig : colf ] shows the co luminosity function ( colf ) from our mufasa  simulations , showing once again our available simulation volumes at each redshift @xmath50 ( top to bottom ) . at @xmath40 ,",
    "it is possible to directly observe co  1 - 0 down to very low @xmath131 , and such observations by @xcite are shown as the data points . to higher redshifts ,",
    "blind co surveys where the survey volume can be robustly estimated are difficult , so one typically uses another proxy for this .",
    "the dashed lines show observations from @xcite , which used far - infrared luminosity as a proxy for co luminosity ; at @xmath40 , they agree with the @xcite data . at higher redshifts , we plot their observations down to their approximate completeness limit .",
    "we note that recent direct co measures from alma by @xcite indicate a somewhat higher number of high-@xmath131 objects at @xmath7 than @xcite , but the statistics are small and the cosmic variance is large , so the discrepancy is only marginally significant .    at @xmath40 ,",
    "mufasa  generally predicts a reasonable colf , with a hint of an excess at high @xmath131 .",
    "the @xmath36 volume shows a turnover at low-@xmath131 owing to numerical resolution , while the @xmath38 continues to agree well with the observations down to the lowest probed @xmath131 .",
    "the observations of @xcite generally find an increase in the number of high-@xmath131 galaxies with redshift , and the simulations follow this trend , generally agreeing with data with still a hint of a high-@xmath131 excess . by @xmath39 the observations",
    "only probe the brightest co galaxies , where only the @xmath36 volume has comparably bright systems , but these are in very good agreement with the data .",
    "it is interesting that despite the relatively mild evolution of h@xmath2 fractions in figure  [ fig : fgasevol ] and a putative undeprediction of @xmath98 at @xmath7 , mufasa  reproduces well the evolution of the colf out to @xmath39 , and shows significantly more high-@xmath131 objects at high redshifts .",
    "this suggests that using a physically - motivated prescription for converting co into h@xmath2 ( or vice versa ) can lead to inferring a different amount of evolution in the gas fractions , and in general could potentially reconcile the relatively low amount of evolution in simulations versus the stronger evolution inferred using standard assumptions regarding @xmath125 ; this broadly echoes the conclusions of @xcite .",
    "generically , metallicity - dependent @xmath125 prescriptions such as @xcite and @xcite tend to predict more h@xmath2 at high masses and less at low masses owing to enhanced h@xmath2 production at high metallicities , which serves to increase the bright end of the colf and flatten the faint end  @xcite thus yielding better agreement with the colf .",
    "empirical luminosity - dependent @xmath125 calibrations have a qualitatively similar effect  @xcite . hence mufasa  may be plausibly reproducing the evolution of the molecular gas content in galaxies in spite of its modest evolution of @xmath71 in the h@xmath2 content at a fixed @xmath12 out to @xmath7 .",
    "-0.1 in      a synthesis of all the above evolutionary measures is provided in the evolution of the global cosmic gas density , typically parameterised in units of the critical density ( i.e. as @xmath133 ) .",
    "the slow evolution of @xmath8 relative to the overall cosmic star formation rate density has been noted as evidence that is not directly physically associated with star formation , while the more rapid evolution of h@xmath2 fractions can explain at least part of the rapid evolution in the cosmic sfrd .",
    "however , such interpretations are complicated by detailed assumptions regarding @xmath125 as discussed in the previous section , and how gas traces galaxies . here",
    "we examine predictions for the evolution of the cosmic and h@xmath2 mass densities , in the context of the evolutionary trends we have discussed above .",
    "figure  [ fig : omegagas ] shows the evolution of the cosmic density in atomic gas ( blue ) and molecular gas ( red ) as a function of @xmath134 .",
    "solid and dashed lines show the results from our @xmath36 and @xmath38 , respectively .",
    "this is obtained by summing over all skid - identified galaxies ; using instead the sum over all or h@xmath2 in the volume ( which includes the igm ) makes a negligible difference .",
    "data points with the blue error bars correspond to various observational measures of @xmath8 : from 21 cm emission ( * ? ? ?",
    "* @xmath135 ) , using absorbers as a proxy for dlas  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* @xmath136 ) , and dla absorbers selected from the sloan digital sky survey  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* @xmath137 ) . for h@xmath2 , no data is shown ; at @xmath40 , @xcite inferred @xmath138 which is above the predictions , but given the good agreement shown versus the @xmath118 colf from the previous section , this could be subject to uncertainties regarding @xmath125 .",
    "@xmath8 roughly follows a power law in @xmath139 ; a best - fit relation to the @xmath36 run is given by @xmath140 , and is higher in amplitude by 20% for the @xmath38 volume .",
    "generally , this provides a good fit to the trend seen in the compilation of observations from various sources and techniques , particularly for the higher - resolution volume .",
    "the difference between the volumes , while only about 0.1  dex , nonetheless suggests that there is suboptimal resolution convergence in this quantity , likely driven by the fact that the @xmath36 volume does not resolve many low-@xmath141 galaxies as seein in figure  [ fig : himf ] .",
    "semi - analytic models tend to predict that @xmath8 rises somewhat out to intermediate redshifts , but then falls at @xmath142  @xcite , in clear disagreement with a continued rise in @xmath8 out to @xmath143 .",
    "hence the broad agreement in the redshift evolution of @xmath8 is highly encouraging , and suggests that in and around galaxies is being viably modeled by mufasa  across a range of epochs .",
    "in contrast , the evolution of @xmath9 is predicted to be substantially slower than often believed .",
    "mufasa  predicts essentially the same redshift evolution for @xmath9 as for @xmath8 , with an increase of a factor of @xmath144 from @xmath145 .",
    "the sams of @xcite predict almost no evolution for @xmath8 , but a @xmath146 increase from @xmath145 for @xmath9 .",
    "more recently , @xcite found slower evolution of @xmath9 in the eagle simulation , more similar to mufasa .",
    "observations can not yet clearly distinguish between these predictions .    in summary ,",
    "mufasa  predicts mild evolution in both the total and h@xmath2 cosmic mass densities , scaling approximately as @xmath147 .",
    "such a scaling roughly follows from the simple equilibrium model arguments outlined at the start of this section .",
    "the evolution of @xmath8 is in good agreement with observations , but the predictions for @xmath9 are not currently robustly testable . as co and far - infrared surveys improve with alma and other facilities , such constraints will provide important tests of these and other models .",
    "in the prevalent baryon cycling paradigm , quasi - continuous gas inflows drive galaxy growth , modulated by feedback  @xcite .",
    "the net result is that galaxies live on fairly tight scaling relations between stellar mass , star formation rate , metallicity , and gas content  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "fluctuations in the inflow rate owing to e.g. mergers can cause fluctuations around these scaling relations .",
    "indeed , inflow fluctuations owing to stochastic dark matter infall alone yield a scatter that is in good agreement with the observed scatter in the sfr@xmath63 relation  @xcite .    in addition to scatter in sfr , such fluctuations also give rise to correlated scatter in the metallicity and gas content .",
    "for instance , a boost in inflow will enhance the gas content , lower the metallicity , while boosting the sfr owing to the abundance of fresh fuel .",
    "hence one expects that , at a given @xmath12 , high gas content should correlate with low metallicity and high sfr .",
    "this results in second - parameter dependences with sfr in the scatter around these scaling relations . in this section",
    "we quantify these second - parameter dependences in mufasa , which provides predictions for baryon cycling that are testable with current and future observations .",
    "figures  [ fig : mzr ] and [ fig : fgas ] already showed clear second - parameter dependences on the sfr in mufasa  galaxies : galaxies that have higher sfr for their @xmath12 also have lower metallicities and higher gas fractions in both and h@xmath2 . to quantify this , we use",
    " deviation plots , \" i.e. we plot the deviation away from the mean scaling relation in two quantities versus @xmath12 against each other .",
    "this isolates the second - order aspects of baryon cycling - driven galaxy evolution by directly quantifying how fluctuations drive correlated scatter , while removing the dependence on the overall inflow rate that sets the first - order ( mean ) scaling relationship between quantities .    as an example , in order to make a deviation plot for ssfr vs. , we begin with the ssfr@xmath63 and @xmath148 relations . for each galaxy",
    ", we then compute the difference between @xmath68  ssfr of that galaxy and the median of all galaxies @xmath68  ssfr at that @xmath12 ; we call this @xmath149  ssfr .",
    "similarly , we compute the difference between @xmath150 for that galaxy and the median @xmath150 at that galaxy s @xmath12 ; this is @xmath151 .",
    "we can analogously compute @xmath152 and @xmath153 for the molecular gas and metallicity , respectively . note that here we are always using @xmath12 as our independent variable , because this quantity is stable on the ( relatively ) short timescales over which deviations are occuring ; in principle , it is possible to use any property as the independent variable , but we leave such explorations for future work .",
    "-0.1 in    figure  [ fig : dev ] shows 2-d histograms of the deviations @xmath154 , @xmath155 , @xmath149ssfr , and @xmath153 plotted against each other .",
    "only star - forming galaxies are included , and for simplicity we only show the @xmath36 volume at @xmath40 but the trends are similar in the other volumes .",
    "the panels along the diagonal show the histograms of deviation values for each quantity , which illustrate the shape of the scatter around the median scaling relation versus @xmath12 .",
    "the solid line in each panel shows the best - fit power law to the deviations shown , and the number in the upper right corner is the best - fit slope .",
    "figure  [ fig : dev ] at its most basic level shows that deviations in the sfr , , and h@xmath2 all correlate positively with each other , while metallicity deviations ( bottom row ) anti - correlate with all of the others .",
    "this quantifies the amount by which galaxies that lie above the mean mzr also tend to lie below the mean relations in ssfr , @xmath101 , and @xmath98 vs. @xmath12 .",
    "such trends arise naturally in a  gas regulator \" type model , which is an ism mass - balance formalism in which the gas content is allowed to vary  @xcite .",
    "the slope of the best - fit line contains information about how well quantities track each other . for instance , consider @xmath156 vs. @xmath149  ssfr : the slope is close to linear , which means that fluctuations in h@xmath2 are directly tracking fluctuations in sfr .",
    "this is unsurprising , since in our simulations it is assumed that the star formation rate of any given gas element is proportional to its @xmath98 ; nonetheless , it is not trivial that this translates into a similar trend in galaxy - integrated quantities .",
    "the slope versus @xmath157 , in contrast , is somewhat sublinear for @xmath155 and @xmath149ssfr , indicating that fluctuations in h@xmath2 and ssfr do not perfectly reflect fluctuations in .    the deviations in metallicity versus the mzr , i.e.",
    "the plots along the lowermost row , have garnered much attention in the literature .",
    "for instance , the panel showing @xmath149  ssfr vs. @xmath158 ( lower rightmost ) corresponds to the fmr , showing that galaxies with higher sfr at a given @xmath12 have lower @xmath159 .",
    "the best - fit line has a slope of @xmath160 , which represents a higher - order testable prediction of mufasa s ability to depict the fluctuations in baryon cycle that give rise to scatter around the scaling relations .",
    "the bottom leftmost panel corresponds to the observational trend noted by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , which the latter dubbed the -fmr : galaxies with higher content at a given @xmath12 are seen to have lower metallicities .",
    "resolved spectroscopy by @xcite indicated that the excess in tends to be accompanied by a drop in the outer metallicity , strongly suggesting that this trend is driven by accretion in the outskirts of galaxies .",
    "mufasa  predicts a slope for @xmath157 vs. @xmath153 of @xmath161 , similar to but slightly stronger than that vs. @xmath149ssfr .",
    "@xcite measured this deviation slope to be @xmath162 for field galaxies ( @xmath163 for cluster galaxies ) .",
    "this is steeper than our current predictions , but this was done at a fixed ssfr rather than @xmath12 , which likely accounts for some of the difference .",
    "metallicity is formally most strongly tied to h@xmath2 ; the slope of this deviation relation is @xmath164 .",
    "one can also examine the spread of points around the best - fit linear relation within the deviation plots .",
    "this is another measure of how tightly any given two quantities flucutate .",
    "one can quantify this by measuring the mean deviation in , say , metallicity , from the best - fit relations involving @xmath153 . for the metallicity relations ,",
    "the mean departure in @xmath153 is @xmath165 with respect to @xmath157 , @xmath155 , and @xmath149ssfr , respectively .",
    "this again suggests , at a very marginal level , that metallicity more strongly follows than ssfr , which is a conclusion also reached in observational analysis by @xcite . still",
    ", metallicity tracks h@xmath2 slightly better than either of these quantities  ( as also found by * ? ? ?",
    "finally , the diagonal panels show the scatter of each quantity around the mean scaling relation versus @xmath12 .",
    "the shape is generally gaussian , with a spread that is slightly smaller in h@xmath2 relative to ssfr and .",
    "metallicity has quite small scatter , consistent with @xmath166  dex as observed  @xcite . in detail",
    "there is a longer tail to low-@xmath167ssfr and correspondingly low gas fraction deviations , which arises from galaxies on their way to quenching .",
    "this deviation plot represents the global view over all galaxies down to the resolution limit of our @xmath36 volume at @xmath40 .",
    "clearly , it is instructive to examine this plot using galaxies binned by mass , or colour , or at different redshifts .",
    "we do not show this here , but we have checked that the trends depicted in figure  [ fig : dev ] are generally well - converged with resolution in the overlapping mass range , and they are qualitatively similar at higher redshifts .",
    "one can also examine trends by fixing other quantities besides @xmath12 , such as sfr . in future work",
    ", we will explore the implications of these deviation plots in terms of baryon cycling , and present more detailed comparisons to relevant observations .    in summary ,",
    "deviations plots quantify how galaxies respond to fluctuations in the baryon cycle . by examining only the departures around the mean relations ( with respect to @xmath12 )",
    ", we remove the  first - order \" component of galaxy growth ( along with many associated systematics ) and isolate the impact of  second - order \" fluctuations on observable quantities .",
    "we thus quantify the correlation in scatter among these various quantities , thereby presenting a new and higher - order test of galaxy formation models .",
    "while there currently exist various forms of observational characterisations for these trends , we plan to conduct a more thorough and direct comparison to data regarding second - parameter trends for both gas fractions and metallicities in future work .",
    "we have presented predictions of the mufasa  simulations and compared to observations of the star formation rate , metal , and gas content of galaxies .",
    "mufasa  uses state of the art feedback modules and hydrodynamics methodology taken from high - resolution zoom simulations and analytic models . to further extend our dynamic range we employ several simulations using identical input physics but varying in volume ( box sizes of @xmath168 ) , and check that generally simulations at different numerical resolution make similar predictions in their overlapping mass ranges .",
    "following on paper  i where we showed that mufasa  performed creditably at reproducing the observed stellar mass function over a range of cosmic epochs , here we further show that it also fares well against a number of other key barometers , including several that have not been examined extensively versus previous models such as the specific star formation rate function .",
    "we also make novel and testable predictions for the correlations in the fluctuations around mean scaling relations in sfr , metallicity , and gas content , as a direct means to quantify how galaxies respond to fluctuations in the baryon cycle .",
    "our main results are summarised as follows :    * the star formation rate function in mufasa  shows a schechter shape with a relatively shallow faint end , in broad agreement with observations out to @xmath7 , albeit with a hint that mufasaoverpredicts high - sfr galaxies .",
    "this is curious given that in paper  i we demonstrated that mufasa  matches the stellar mass function well but strongly underpredicts the @xmath7 ssfr@xmath63 relation , which implies that , if anything , mufasa  should _ under_predict the sfr function .",
    "this highlights the continued difficulty in reconciling current sfr measures during cosmic noon with models and , in some cases , among the various data sets themselves . *",
    "the specific sfr function provides a more detailed test of how well models reproduce the scatter around the main sequence .",
    "mufasa  reproduces the observed ssfr function at low-@xmath62 quite well , indicating that this simulation is nicely reproducing the number of galaxies in the green valley , is correctly capturing the spread around the main sequence , and is not missing a large population of starbursts . at @xmath15 , the entire ssfr function",
    "is shifted by @xmath71 with respect to observations although the shape matches well , reiterating the result from paper  i showing that the mean ssfr at that epoch is underpredicted by a similar factor .",
    "* the mass - metallicity relation shows a reasonable low - mass slope and amplitude versus observations at both @xmath118 and 2 .",
    "in contrast , @xmath169 star - forming galaxies at @xmath40 continue to show a strong rise in the mzr that does not agree well with observations , and then abruptly flattens at roughly the appropriate metallicity .",
    "we conjecture that wind recycling , which plays a key role in setting the mzr at these masses , may be too vigorous in our simulations at these masses , or else these galaxies should have a metal loading factor above our assumed value of unity .",
    "finally , the mzr clearly shows a second - parameter trend such that galaxies with high sfr at a given @xmath12 have lower metallicity .",
    "* mufasa  directly tracks molecular gas , hence we can separate the gas content into atomic , molecular , and ionised .",
    "mufasa  well reproduces observations of the total cold gas fraction ( + h@xmath2 ) as a function of @xmath12 , and provides a fair match to the fraction individually , with a notable deficit at high masses in only our lowest - resolution run .",
    "like with the metallicity , and h@xmath2 content also show a second parameter trend that galaxies with high sfr tend to have higher gas fractions .",
    "* gas fractions are broadly predicted to increase with redshift , which at least qualitatively agrees with observations .",
    "however , the predicted rate of evolution for h@xmath2 ( @xmath49 out to @xmath7 ) is slower than canonically observed for molecular gas .",
    "h@xmath2 evolves similarly across all masses , while evolves slightly faster at higher masses ; there is an order of magnitude more in a @xmath170 galaxy at @xmath4 versus today . * as a result of the rapid evolution at high masses , the bright end of the mass function evolves fairly rapidly as well .",
    "the predicted himf agrees well with observations at @xmath171 , and evolves upwards at all masses by @xmath49 by @xmath41 .",
    "at @xmath39 we predict a steeper faint end , although this may not be accessibly observationally in 21  cm prior to the full ska . * in order to explore the potential discrepancy in molecular gas evolution further , we use the simulation - based prescription from @xcite to convert mufasa  molecular gas masses to a co luminosity based on the metallicity and molecular gas content , and compare to inferred co luminosity functions observed out to @xmath7 .",
    "we find surprisingly good agreement at all masses for the colf , despite the mild evolution in @xmath98 .",
    "this highlights that systematic uncertainties in @xmath125 can be a overriding factor in making robust comparisons to molecular gas content data at intermediate redshifts . * the cosmic mass density in",
    "is predicted to evolve mildly upwards out to high-@xmath62 , such that @xmath172 .",
    "this evolution is in good agreement with observations from a variety of techniques .",
    "the amplitude is somewhat sensitive to resolution , and our @xmath38 volume has 1020% higher @xmath8 than our @xmath36 cube , which agrees slightly better with data . * in accord with our predicted mild evolution for @xmath98 , we also predict mild evolution for @xmath9 , with a similar redshift scaling as @xmath8 but lower by @xmath56 .",
    "we note that this is much less steep than the evolution of the cosmic sfr density ; it has been suggested that the drop in cosmic sfr owes directly to the drop in molecular gas mass , but mufasa  does not support this intepretation , as the cosmic sfrd ( see paper  i ) evolves significantly more rapidly than @xmath9 . *",
    "an independent and higher - order test of models is whether they reproduce the observed scatter around the mean scaling relations .",
    "we make predictions for this using deviation plots , where we correlate the deviations for each galaxy relative to scaling relations in ssfr , metallicity , @xmath98 , and @xmath101 versus @xmath12 .",
    "we show that mufasa  qualitatively reproduces observed trends that indicate that at a given @xmath12 , galaxies with high sfr have low metallicity and high gas content .",
    "we make predictions for the power - law slopes between deviations in ssfr , metallicity , @xmath98 , and @xmath101 that can be tested against observations .    as in paper",
    "i , mufasa  continues to demonstrate good agreement with now a wider range of galaxy observables across cosmic time , indicating that it provides a viable platform to study the physics of galaxy evolution in a cosmological context on @xmath173kpc scales .",
    "this implies , among other things , that employing scalings taken from the fire simulations into cosmological - scale runs satisfyingly reproduces some of the same data - concordant trends as individual fire zoom runs .",
    "our current heuristic quenching model seems to populate the green valley and lower their gas contents relative to blue cloud galaxies approximately as observed , though we are working towards a more self - consistent black hole growth and feedback model that may substantially impact these predictions particularly at the massive end .",
    "mufasa s successes showcase the emerging promise of cosmologically - situated galaxy formation simulations in helping to understand the universe as mapped through large - scale multi - wavelength galaxy surveys probing the various constituents of galaxies back to early epochs .",
    "the authors thank d. angls - alczar , f. durier , k. finlator , s. huang , n. katz , d. narayanan , and r. somerville for helpful conversations and comments .",
    "rd , mr , and rjt acknowledge support from the south african research chairs initiative and the south african national research foundation .",
    "support for mr was also provided by the square kilometre array post - graduate bursary program .",
    "support for rd was provided by nasa atp grant nnx12ah86 g to the university of arizona .",
    "support for pfh was provided by an alfred p. sloan research fellowship , nasa atp grant nnx14ah35 g , and nsf collaborative research grant # 1411920 and career grant # 1455342 .",
    "the mufasa  simulations were run on the pumbaa astrophysics computing cluster hosted at the university of the western cape , which was generously funded by uwc s office of the deputy vice chancellor .",
    "these simulations were run with revision e77f814 of gizmo hosted at https://bitbucket.org/rthompson/gizmo .    1 andrews , b. & martini , p. 2013 , apj , 765 , 140 asplund , m. , grevesse , n. , sauval , a. j. , scott , p. 2009",
    ", ara&a , 47 , 481 bah , y. m. et al . 2016 ,",
    "mnras , 456 , 1115 behroozi , p. s. , wechsler , r. h. , conroy , c. 2013 , apj , 770 , 57 benson , a. j. 2014 , mnras , 444 , 2599 boselli , a. , cortese , l. , boquien , m. , boissier , s. , catinella , b. , lagos , c. , saintonge , a. 2014 , a&a , 564 , 66 bothwell , m. s. et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 415 , 1815 bothwell , m. s. , maiolino , r. , kennicutt , r. , cresci , g. , mannucci , f. , marconi , a. , cicone , c. 2013 , mnras , 433 , 1425 bouch , n. , gardner , j. p. , katz , n. , weinberg , d. h. , dav , r. , lowenthal , j. d. 2005 , apj , 628 , 89 brown , j.  s. , martini , p. , & andrews , b.  h.  2016 , mnras , 458 , 1529 bruzual , g. , charlot , s. 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000 catinella , b. et al .",
    "2010 , mnras , 403 , 683 catinella , b. et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 436 , 34 chabrier g. , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 763 colbert , j. w. 2013 , apj , 779 , 34 crain , r. a. 2015 , mnras , 450 , 1937 crain , r. a. 2016 , mnras , submitted , arxiv:1604.06803 croton , d.  j. , et al .",
    "2006 , mnras , 365 , 11 dav , r. 2008 , mnras , 385 , 147 dav , r. , finlator , k. m. , oppenheimer , b. d. 2011 , mnras , 416 , 1354 dav , r. , finlator , k. m. , oppenheimer , b. d. 2012 , mnras , 421 , 98 dav , r. , katz , n. , oppenheimer , b. d. , kollmeier , j. a. , weinberg , d. h. 2013 , mnras , 434 , 2645 dav , r. , thompson , r. j. , hopkins , p. f. 2016 , mnras , accepted decarli , r. et al .",
    "2016 , apj , submitted , arxiv:1607.06771 delhaize , j. , meyer , m. j. , staveley - smith , l. , boyle , b. j. 2013 , mnras , 433 , 1398 dekel , a. et al .",
    "2009 , nature , 457 , 451 duffy , a.r . ,",
    "schaye , j. , kay , s.t . ,",
    "dalla vecchia , c. 2008 , mnras , 390 , l64 ellison , s.  l. , patton , d.  r. , simard , l. , & mcconnachie , a.  w.  2008 , apjl , 672 , l107 the enzo collaboration , bryan , g. l. , norman , m. l. , et al .",
    "2014 , apjs , 211 , 19 erb , d. k. , shapley , a. e. , pettini , m. , steidel , c. c. , reddy , n. a. , adelberger , k. l. 2006 , apj , 644 , 813 faucher - giguere , c. a. , lidz , a. , zaldarriaga , m. , hernquist , l. 2009 , apj , 703 , 1416 feldmann r. , gnedin n. y. , kravtsov a. v. , 2012 , apj , 747 , 124 fernndez , x. et al .",
    "2016 , apj , 824 , 1 finlator , k. & dav , r. 2008 , mnras , 385 , 2181 font - ribera , a. et al .",
    "2012 , jcap , 11 , 59 forbes , j. c. , krumholz , m. r. , burkert , a. , dekel , a. 2014 , mnras , 443 , 168 gabor , j. m. , dav , r. , oppenheimer , b. d. , finlator , k. m. 2011 , mnras , 417 , 2676 gabor , j. m. & dav , r. 2012 , mnras , 427 , 1816 gabor , j. m. & dav , r. 2015 , mnras , 447 , 374 geach , j. e. , smail , i. , moran , s. m. , macarthur , l. a. , lagos , c. p. , edge , a. c. 2011 , apj , 730 , 19 genel , s. et al .",
    "2014 , mnras , 445 , 175 grasshorn gebhardt , h.  s. , zeimann , g.  r. , ciardullo , r. , et al .",
    "2016 , apj , 817 , 10 gunawardhana , m. l. p. et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 433 , 2764 hahn , o. , abel , t. 2011 , mnras , 415 , 2101 haynes , m. p. et al .",
    "2011 , aj , 142 , 170 holwerda , b. w. , blyth , s .- l . , baker , a. j. 2012 , iaus v.284 , p.496 hopkins , p.f .",
    "2015 , mnras , 450 , 53 hughes , t.  m. , cortese , l. , boselli , a. , gavazzi , g. , & davies , j.  i.  2013 , a&a , 550 , a115 ilbert , o. et al .",
    "2015 , a&a , 579 , 2 iwamoto , k. , brachwitz , f. , nomoto , k. , kishimoto , n. , umeda , h. , hix , w. r. , thielemann , f .- k . 1999 ,",
    "apjs , 125 , 439 kaviraj , s. , laigle , c. , kimm , t. , devriendt , j. e. g. , dubois , y. , pichon , c. , slyz , a. , chisari , e. , peirani , s. 2016 , mnras , submitted , arxiv:1605.09379 kennicutt , r. c. 1998 , apj , 498 , 541 kere , d. , yun , m. s. , young , j. s. 2003 , apj , 582 , 659 kere , d. , katz , n. , weinberg , d. h. , & dav , r. 2005 , mnras , 363 , 2 kewley , l. j. & ellison , s. l. 2008 , apj , 681 , 1183 khandai , n. , di matteo , t. , croft , r. , wilkins , s. , feng , y. , tucker , e. , degraf , c. , liu , m .- s .",
    "2015 , mnras , 450 , 1349 kim , j .- h . , abel , t. , agertz , o. , et al .",
    "2014 , apjs , 210 , 14 kriek , m. et al .",
    "2015 , apjs , 218 , 15 krumholz , m. r. , mckee , c. f. , tumlinson , j. t. 2008 , apj , 693 , 216 krumholz , m. r. , mckee , c. f. , tumlinson , j. t. 2011 , apj , 729 , 36 lagos , c. del p. , baugh , c. m. , lacey , c. g. , benson , a. j. , kim , h .- s . ,",
    "power , c. 2011 , mnras , 418 , 1649 lagos , c. del p. , et al .",
    "2015 , mnras , 459 , 2632 lara - lpez , m. a. et al .",
    "2010 , a & 521 , l53 lara - lpez , m.  a. , hopkins , a.  m. , lpez - snchez , a.  r. , et al .  2013 , mnras , 433 , l35 lilly , s. j. , carollo , c. m. , pipino , a. , renzini , a. , peng , y. 2013 , apj , 772 , 119 ma , x. , hopkins , p. f. , faucher - gigure , c .- a . , zolman , n. , muratov , a. l. , kere , d. , quataert , e. 2016 , mnras , 456 , 2140 mannucci , f. , cresci , g. , maiolino , r. , marconi , a. , gnerucci , a. 2010 , mnras , 408 , 2115 mcnamara , b. r. & nulsen , p. e. j. 2007 , ara&a , 45 , 117 mehta , v. et al .",
    "2016 , apj , accepted , arxiv:1505.07843 mitra , s. , dav , r. , finlator , k. 2015 , mnras , 452 , 1184 mitra , s. , dav , r. , simha , v. , finlator , k. 2016 , mnras , submitted , arxiv:1606.07436 mo , h.j . ,",
    "mao , s. , white , s.d.m .",
    "1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 moran , s.m .",
    "2012 , apj , 745 , 66 muratov , a.l .",
    ", kere , d. , faucher - giguere , c. a. , hopkins , p. f. , quataert , e. , murray , n. 2015 , mnras , 454 , 2691 narayanan , d. , krumholz , m. r. , ostriker , e. c. , hernquist , l. 2012 , mnras , 421 , 3127 narayanan , d. , bothwell , m. , dav , r. 2012 , mnras , 426 , 1178 nomoto , k. , tominaga , n. , umeda , h. , kobayashi , c. , maeda , k. 2006 , nupha , 777 , 424 noterdaeme , p. et al .",
    "2012 , a&a , 547 , l1 obreschkow , d. , croton , d. , de lucia , g. , khochfar , s. , rawlings , s. 2009 , apj , 698 , 1467 oppenheimer , b. d. & dav , r. 2008 , mnras , 387 , 577 pasquali , a. , gallazzi , a. , fontanot , f. , van den bosch , f. c. , de lucia , g. , mo , h. j. , yang , x. 2010 , mnras , 407 , 937 peeples , m. s. , shankar , f. 2011 , mnras , 417 , 2962 planck collaboration , ade , p. a. r. , aghanim , n. , et al . 2015 , arxiv:1502.01589 popping , a. , dav , r. , braun , r. , oppenheimer , b. d. 2009 , a&a , 504 , 15 popping , g. , somerville , r. s. , trager , s. c. 2014 , mnras , 442 , 2398 popping , g. , behroozi , p. s. , peeples , m. s. 2015 , mnras , 449 , 477 popping , g. et al . 2015 ,",
    "mnras , 454 , 2258 prochaska , j.x . , wolfe , a.m. 2009 , apj , 696 , 1543 rafieferantsoa , m. , dav , r. , angls - alczar , d. , katz , n. , kollmeier , j. a. , oppenheimer , b. d. 2015 , mnras , 453 , 3980 rahmati , a. , pawlik , a. h. , raievi , m. , schaye , j. rao , s.m .",
    ", turnshek , d.a . ,",
    "nestor , d.b .",
    "2006 , apj , 636 , 610 robertson , p. , shields , g. a. , dav , r. , blanc , g. a. , wright , a. 2013 , apj , 773 , 4 salim , s. et al .",
    "2007 , apjs , 207 , 173 , 267 salim , s. et al .",
    "2014 , apj , 797 , 126 salim , s. , lee , j. c. , dav , r. , dickinson , m. 2015 , apj , 808 , 25 saintonge , r. l. et al .",
    "2011 , mnras , 415 , 32 saintonge , r. l. et al .",
    "2016 , mnras , 462 , 1749 sanders , r. l. et al .",
    "2015 , apj , 799 , 138 sanders , r. l. et al .",
    "2016 , apj , 816 , 23 schaye , j. & dalla vecchia , c. 2008 , mnras , 383 , 1210 schaye , j. et al .",
    "2015 , mnras , 446 , 521 scoville , n. et al .",
    "2016 , apj , 820 , 83 somerville , r. s. , hopkins , p. f. , cox , t. j. , robertson , b. e. , hernquist , l. 2008 , mnras , 391 , 481 somerville , r. s. , dav , r. 2015 , ara&a , 53 , 51 springel , v. 2005 , mnras , 364 , 1105 steidel , c. c. et al .",
    "2014 , apj , 795 , 165 steidel , c. c. , strom , a. l. , pettini , m. , rudie , g. c. , reddy , n. a. , trainor , r. f. 2016 , apj , 826 , 159 tacchella , l. j. et al .",
    "2016 , mnras , 458 , 242 tacconi , l. j. et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 768 , 74 telford , o.  g. , dalcanton , j.  j. , skillman , e.  d. , & conroy , c.  2016 , apj , 827 , 35 thompson , r. , nagamine , k. , jaacks , j. , choi , j .- h .",
    "2014 , apj , 780 , 145 thompson , r. 2015 , ascl , 1502 , 12 tremonti , c. a. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 613 , 898 vagnozzi , s. , freese , k. , zurbuchen , t. h. 2016 , arxiv:1603.05960 vallini , l. , gruppioni , c. , pozzi , f. , vignali , c. , zamorani , g. 2016 , mnras , 456 , l40 vogelsberger , m. , genel , s. , springel , v. , torrey , p. , sijacki , d. , xu , d. , snyder , g. , nelson , d. , hernquist , l. 2014 , mnras , 444 , 1518 zahid , h. j. et al .",
    "2014 , apj , 792 , 75"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine galaxy star formation rates ( sfrs ) , metallicities , and gas contents predicted by the mufasa  cosmological hydrodynamic simulations , which employ meshless hydrodynamics and novel feedback prescriptions that yield a good match to observed galaxy stellar mass assembly . </S>",
    "<S> we combine @xmath0 and @xmath1 boxes with a quarter billion particles each to show that mufasa  broadly reproduces a wide range of relevant observations , including sfr and specific sfr functions , the mass - metallicity relation , and h@xmath2 fractions , ( 21  cm ) and co luminosity functions , and cosmic gas density evolution . </S>",
    "<S> there are mild but significant discrepancies , such as too many high - sfr galaxies , overly metal - rich and -poor galaxies at @xmath3 , and ssfrs that are too low at @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> the mass function increases by @xmath5 out to @xmath6 then steepens to higher redshifts , while the co luminosity function computed using the narayanan et al . </S>",
    "<S> conversion factor shows a rapid increase of co - bright galaxies out to @xmath7 in accord with data . </S>",
    "<S> @xmath8 and @xmath9 both scale roughly as @xmath10 out to @xmath11 , comparable to the rise in and h@xmath2 fractions . </S>",
    "<S> mufasa  galaxies with high sfr at a given @xmath12 have lower metallicities and higher and h@xmath2 fractions , following observed trends ; we make quantitative predictions for how fluctuations in the baryon cycle drive correlated scatter around galaxy scaling relations . </S>",
    "<S> most of these trends are well converged with numerical resolution . </S>",
    "<S> these successes highlight mufasa  as a viable platform to study many facets of cosmological galaxy evolution .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : formation , galaxies : evolution , galaxies : star formation , galaxies : abundances , galaxies : ism , methods : numerical </S>"
  ]
}