{
  "article_text": [
    "active galactic nuclei ( agn ) are the strongest steady sources in the universe .",
    "while being extremely spatially compact , they produce enough bolometric luminosity to eventually outshine their host galaxy .",
    "it is an accepted paradigm that such strong and compact emission is due to accretion onto a supermassive black hole ( smbh , @xcite ) . in thermal ,",
    "radio - quiet agn the smbh is surrounded by an accretion disk producing the optical and uv continuum radiation ( see @xcite , @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "this emission is reprocessed by other structures surrounding the disk , such as the so - called broad line emission region ( blr ) , or a circumnuclear dusty medium often called the `` dusty torus '' @xcite .",
    "this dusty region extends to a spatial scale of a few parsecs for a @xmath0 smbh , but only in very few objects the circumnuclear dust is barely resolvable by near - ir interferometry techniques .",
    "the innermost parts can not yet be resolved neither in the optical nor the infrared and it is fair to say that we still lack a satisfactory understanding of the physical processes , geometry and composition of the central ( sub - parsec ) components of agn .",
    "both , the blr and the dusty torus are somewhat confined to the equatorial plane that is defined by the accretion disk .",
    "the dusty torus is opaque to optical light @xcite and therefore obscures the blr at all lines of sight intercepting it .",
    "observers at such equatorial viewing angles do not see broad optical emission lines and therefore observe a so - called type-2 agn . at polar viewing angles ,",
    "the blr is visible and the optical spectrum denotes a type-1 object .",
    "this is a fundamental axis of the so - called unified model of agn that attempts to explain the observational diversity of active galaxies as an orientation effect . to verify this scenario",
    "the role of polarimetry was crucial . @xcite and @xcite observed polarized broad lines in highly inclined seyfert galaxies and found a relation between low inclination ( type-1 ) and high - inclination sources ( type-2 ) .",
    "they thus postulated that both agn types share the same morphology but are seen at a different system inclination .",
    "since then , a lot of effort has been put into understanding the complex polarization signal observed in the optical band . in particular",
    ", @xcite suggested that a flattened equatorial scattering region could explain the specific polarization observed in type-1 agn : a low polarization degree @xmath1 ( inferior to 1% in most of the cases ) associated with a polarization position angle parallel to the symmetry axis of the circumnuclear dust region .",
    "it was shown by our collaboration that also a wide half opening angle of the dusty torus produces the polarization characteristics of type-1 agn @xcite .    knowing that flattened scattering regions in type-1 agn produce continuum polarization should make it possible to conduct polarization reverberation mapping as introduced by @xcite .",
    "the reverberation lag is due to a difference in light travel time between continuum radiation coming directly from the accretion disk and scattered radiation coming from structures farther away ( e.g. , from the torus , see fig .",
    "[ author1:fig1 ] , left ) .",
    "it is obtained by cross - correlating the optical continuum lightcurve with the polarized spectrum .",
    "the latter is obtained by multiplying the polarization fraction with the spectral intensity .",
    "the polarized time lag holds information on the average distance between the continuum source and the scattering regions . in this way",
    ", @xcite were able to infer the size of the inner scattering regions in the seyfert-1 galaxy ngc  4151 .",
    "like spectral or polarimetric observations , the reverberation data needs to be accurately modeled to infer constraints on the agn geometry ( such as the inner radius or the half - opening angle of the dusty torus ) . in this research note",
    ", we present preliminary modeling results using a time - dependent monte carlo method to solve the radiative transfer in a simplified agn set up .",
    "we present results for polarization and time lags assuming different model configurations .",
    "the stokes code is a monte - carlo radiative transfer code written by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite that computes the stokes parameters of light , from which we can derive the polarization percentage , position angle , and total flux . in its latest public version , it also stores the time information in order to compute time - lags .",
    "the code allows the user to define different geometries and opacities for emission and scattering structures around a set of emitting regions . a free - to - download version of the code ( v1.2 at this moment )",
    "can be found at : http://www.stokes-program.info/ .",
    "a recent review of the code performance is given in @xcite .",
    "to investigate how polarized reverberation mapping can improve our knowledge of the morphology and composition of the dusty region at the center of agn , we constructed a toy - model representative of the inner few parsecs of a seyfert galaxy . at the center of the model",
    ", we implemented an irradiating continuum source using an isotropic point - like region emitting an unpolarized flux according to a power - law spectrum @xmath2 with @xmath3 . around it",
    "we defined a flattened dust distribution that could take two distinct forms : either a flared - disk or an elliptically - shaped torus .",
    "an illustration of the two geometries can be seen in fig .",
    "[ author1:fig1 ] ( right ) .",
    "the filling of the equatorial region was either uniform ( volume filling factor equal to unity ) or non - uniform , i.e. clumpy ( volume filling factor = 25 ) .",
    "for all models , we considered the same torus dimensions : distance from the center : 0.0067  pc , external radius : 15.0067  pc , and inclination angle : 30@xmath4 from the symmetry axis .",
    "the inner radius was set according to the time lag of 8 light - days found by @xcite for ngc  4151 .",
    "the outer torus radius and the half - opening angle are based on near - infrared polarimetric observations by @xcite .",
    "the dusty region is optically thick , as is expected from observations with a total optical depth of @xmath5 150 along the observer s line - of - sight .",
    "both models ( flared - disk and toroidal geometries ) were tested with two dust prescriptions : `` agn - dust '' presented in @xcite and `` milkyway - dust '' ( `` mw - dust '' ) as prescribed by @xcite .",
    "agn - dust is composed of 85% silicate and 15% graphite ; mw - dust is composed of 62.5% silicate and 37.5% graphite .",
    "the grain radius , @xmath6 , varies from 0.005@xmath7 m to 0.250@xmath7 m following a distribution @xmath8 with @xmath9 for agn and @xmath10 for mw dust .",
    "( type-1 ) and blue dots show viewing angles above 60@xmath11 ( type-2 ) . left : plots as a function of wavelength ( left ) for a uniform - density torus .",
    "right : v - band data as a function of the system inclination .",
    "blue line : uniform - dusty - torus , green line : uniform - flared - disk , red line : clumpy - dusty - torus , magenta line : clumpy - flared - disk.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=49.0% ]   ( type-1 ) and blue dots show viewing angles above 60@xmath11 ( type-2 ) . left : plots as a function of wavelength ( left ) for a uniform - density torus .",
    "right : v - band data as a function of the system inclination .",
    "blue line : uniform - dusty - torus , green line : uniform - flared - disk , red line : clumpy - dusty - torus , magenta line : clumpy - flared - disk.,title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=49.0% ]    we first study the case of a uniform - density torus . in fig .",
    "[ rojas : fig3 ] ( left ) , we plot the spectral flux , polarization and time lag as a function of wavelength .",
    "the spectral results can be compared to earlier work given in @xcite .",
    "it turns out that both the strong direct emission seen at type-1 viewing angles and the significantly weaker scattered emission seen at type-2 orientations are mostly independent of wavelength .",
    "a slight depression is seen below 3000   , which can be related to mie scattering becoming more prominent versus rayleigh scattering as well as to the presence of the dust - related 2175    feature .",
    "apart from a similar variation in the near - uv and a slight overall rise towards longer wavelengths , the time lag is mostly insensitive to wavelength .",
    "this behavior is confirmed for the other modeling geometries studied in this work .",
    "furthermore , it was discussed in @xcite that the polarization properties induced by dust scattering in toroidal geometries do not vary much with wavelength .",
    "next , we focus on the results as a function of the system inclination ( fig .",
    "[ rojas : fig3 ] right ) .",
    "it turns out that the time lag of the polarized emission is not affected when modifying the dust prescription .",
    "thus , we only present modeling results for the case of standard `` milky way '' dust . a discussion on the dust prescription and polarization effects is given in @xcite .    the total flux and polarization as a function of inclination confirm what was shown in previous papers @xcite .",
    "the flux must be much stronger at polar viewing angles ( such as expected from type-1 agn ) than below the torus horizon ( type-2 ) where only scattered radiation is seen .",
    "the scattered radiation is more strongly polarized but also accumulates a larger time lag .",
    "notice that a time lag of zero corresponds to the direct emission from the source seen by the observer without any deviation .",
    "the fact that the time lag and the polarization fraction at type-1 inclinations are still larger than zero is due to the superimposed scattered component . at type-2 viewing angles the observed radiation must scatter inside the torus",
    "funnel before it escapes , increasing the time lag significantly .",
    "the angular profile of the total flux , polarization and the time lag differ between the four geometries .",
    "we find a difference in the angular flux distribution between flared and toroidal shapes : the flared disk allows less radiation to be scatted towards type-2 viewing angles than the doughnut - shaped torus .",
    "a similar effect was found and discussed before when comparing the scattering properties between a large and a compact torus for the same half - opening angle ( see section  4.2 and figure  7 in * ? ? ? * for more details ) . for a given overall geometry , i.e. either flared or toroidal , the total flux and time lag are only in rough agreement with each other .",
    "introducing clumpiness leads to a somewhat smoother and broader transition around the torus horizon and strongly lowers the polarization fraction and therefore the polarized flux .",
    "we modeled the polarization properties and time dependence of radiation scattered by circumnuclear dust in agn .",
    "the inner radius of the dust region was fixed from polarization reverberation measurements in ngc  4151 @xcite . at type-1 viewing angles",
    "we find almost no variation in shape for all models , but we find a clear difference in the angular flux distribution depending on the geometry .",
    "our results extend the work in @xcite in terms of time lags .",
    "there are additional differences in the polarization signature between a torus and a flared disk .",
    "while the torus models , either uniform or clumpy , do not show large differences in time - lag between type-1 or type-2 viewing angles , the case is different for flared geometries .",
    "the time lag is almost seven times larger at type-2 viewing angles than at polar inclinations .",
    "a flared disk structure leads to more important delays at edge - on inclinations , together with lower fluxes and polarization than for a toroidal dusty torus .",
    "antonucci , r. 1984 , apj , 278 , 499 antonucci , r.  1993 , , 31 , 473 antonucci , r. and miller , j.s . , 1985 , apj , 297 , 621a gaskell , c. m. , goosmann , r. w. , antonucci , r. r. j. , & whysong , d. , 2004 , apj , 616 , 147 gaskell , c. m. 2009 , newar 53 , 140 gaskell , c. m. and goosmann , r. w. and merkulova , n. i. and shakhovskoy , n. m. and shoji , m. 2012 , apj , 749 , 148 goosmann , r. w.and gaskell , c. m. 2007 , a&a , 465 , 129 lynden - bell , d. 1969 , nature 223 , 690 marin , m. , goosmann , r. w. , gaskell , c. m. , porquet , d. and dovciak , m. 2012 , a&a , 548 , 121 marin , f. , & goosmann , r.  w.  2014 , sf2a-2014 : proceedings of the annual meeting of the french society of astronomy and astrophysics , 103 marin , f. , goosmann , r. w. and gaskell , c. m. 2015 , a&a , 577 , 66 mathis , j. s. , rumpl , w. , & nordsieck , k. h. , 1977 , , 217 , 425 pringle , j. e. and rees , m. j. and pacholczyk , a. g. , 1973 , a&a , 29 , 179 ruiz , m. and young , s. and packham , c. and alexander , d. m. and houghg , j. h. 2003 , mnras , 340 , 733r salpeter , e. e. 1964 , apj , 140 , 796 shakura , n. i. and sunyaev , r. a. 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 shields , g. a. , 1978 , nature , 272 , 706 smith , j. e. et al . , 2004 , mnrs , 350 , 1405"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> according to the standard paradigm , the strong and compact luminosity of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) is due to multi - temperature black body emission originating from an accretion disk formed around a supermassive black hole . </S>",
    "<S> this central engine is thought to be surrounded by a dusty region along the equatorial plane and by ionized winds along the poles . </S>",
    "<S> the innermost regions can not yet be resolved neither in the optical nor in the infrared and it is fair to say that we still lack a satisfactory understanding of the physical processes , geometry and composition of the central ( sub - parsec ) components of agn . like spectral or polarimetric observations , </S>",
    "<S> the reverberation data needs to be modeled in order to infer constraints on the agn geometry ( such as the inner radius or the half - opening angle of the dusty torus ) . in this research note , we present preliminary modeling results using a time - dependent monte carlo method to solve the radiative transfer in a simplified agn set up . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate different model configurations using both polarization and time lags and find a high dependency on the geometry to the time - lag response </S>",
    "<S> . for all models there is a clear distinction between edge - on or face - on viewing angles for fluxes and time lags , the later showing a higher wavelength - dependence than the former . </S>",
    "<S> time lags , polarization and fluxes point toward a clear dichotomy between the different inclinations of agn , a method that could help us to determine the true orientation of the nucleus in seyfert galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active , galaxies : nuclei , polarization , radiative transfer </S>"
  ]
}