{
  "article_text": [
    "nowadays , there is a common trend in research to model everything as a network , i.e. , systems or data which can be represented by graphs . in particular",
    ", complex network theory is a mathematical tool that connects the real world with theoretical research , and is employed in many fields .",
    "networks are employed across a multitude of disciplines ranging from natural and physical sciences to social sciences and humanities @xcite .",
    "technological , biological , economic systems , disease pathologies , protein - protein interactions , can be modeled in the same way .",
    "focusing on multimedia contents , it has been proved that language , for instance , can be seen as a system that can be represented as a complex network @xcite .",
    "as human language has a non - random structure , since it is used by humans to construct sentences from a limited amount of discrete units ( words ) , also music is created by combining notes played by a set of instruments . in this paper , we show that musical pieces can be treated as complex networks as well ( we will focus on melodic lines played by a single instrument ) .    when dealing with audio , the main concern has been on the issue of digitalizing it , in the most efficient way , or to synthesize , represent , reproduce sounds , by employing a variety of sound generation techniques .",
    "attention has been paid on transmitting , indexing , classifying , clustering , summarizing music @xcite .",
    "however , the idea of capturing some general characteristics of a melody ( and harmony ) is somehow an overlook aspect . in literature , there are works in the field of computer science that focus on musical scores @xcite .",
    "there are studies on the development of digital libraries and on human interaction with musical scores and more general notational / instructional information objects @xcite .",
    "other works are on the automatic transcription of the melody and harmony @xcite . as concerns music information retrieval ,",
    "a goal is to devise automatic measurements of the similarity between two musical recordings , based on the analysis of audio contents .",
    "techniques worthy of mention are acoustic - based similarity measures @xcite , compression - based classification methods @xcite , statistical analyses and artificial neural networks @xcite .",
    "finally , artificial intelligence techniques have been employed to capture statistical proportions of music attributes , such as pitch , duration , melodic intervals , harmonic intervals , etc .",
    "@xcite ; outcomes confirm that several essential aspects of music aesthetics can be modeled through power law distributions .",
    "studies on music can be based on symbolic data ( music score sheets ) or on audio recordings .",
    "symbolic music data eases the analysis in several music application domains .",
    "for example , finding the notes of a melody in an audio file can be a difficult task , while with symbolic music , notes are the starting point for the analysis .",
    "thus , in general traditional musicological concepts such as melodic and harmonic structure are easier to investigate in the symbolic domain , and usually more successful @xcite .    in this paper",
    ", we develop a model that allows capturing some essential features of a musical performance ( a music track ) .",
    "we will focus on melodies , and specifically on musical `` solos '' , which are a part of a song where a performer plays ( often improvises ) a melody with accompaniment from the other instruments @xcite .",
    "it is quite common in music theory asserting that solos performed by musicians are bound to their technical and artistic skills .",
    "indeed , musicians are recognized for their own `` style '' in playing a solo over a music piece , that identifies a sort of musical `` language '' , typical of that musician .",
    "it is not by chance that an artist can be recognized from others , and that we can classify artists in categories and hierarchies .",
    "moreover , since during a solo a player ( quite often ) improvises and creates a melody `` in real time '' , he employs typical patterns ( licks ) he is used to utilize .",
    "the goal of this work is to make a step further toward the identification of the rules and characteristics of the music style of a certain performer .",
    "if a music line is conceived of as a complex network of musical units ( notes , rests ) and their relations , it is expected to exhibit emergent properties due to the interactions between such system elements .",
    "complex networks provide appropriate modeling for music as a complex system and powerful quantitative measures for capturing the essence of its complexity .    as a proof of concept",
    ", we retrieved and analyzed different solos of some main guitar players .",
    "namely , the artists are eric clapton , david gilmour , jimi hendrix , allan holdsworth , b.b .",
    "king , pat metheny , steve vai , eddie van halen .",
    "the selection of guitar as instrument and these particular artists is motivated by the fact that there is a quite active community of guitar enthusiasts that share musical scores on the web .",
    "scores are published and formatted , usually , by employing description schemes that are alternative , easier and more intuitive to read with respect to the classic musical sheets .",
    "these schemes are based on guitar tablatures , and there is a wide list of software applications and libraries to handle digital representations of such scores .",
    "the considered artists are prominent musicians ; thus , several scores of their music are available online .",
    "this simplified the creation of the database .",
    "it is worth mentioning that a previous work was published in @xcite , presenting a methodological approach that is similar to that presented in this work .",
    "nonetheless , the use of the model and the application were different to those considered in this work . in @xcite ,",
    "complete scores of classic and chinese music are considered .",
    "networks are concatenations of a number of different music pieces by the same author , having the same style , to reach 18k notes per composer .",
    "using these aggregate networks , they find scale - free properties , small - world phenomenon , mean shortest distances around @xmath0 and clustering coefficients around @xmath1 .",
    "the application approach followed in this work is different .",
    "in fact , the analysis is on solos rather than aggregate music pieces .",
    "the focus on solos has the specific goal to eliminate repetitions typical of the main melodies of contemporary pop / rock / blues songs , the main theme of jazz compositions , and above all the rhythmic parts . in any case , following the approach employed in @xcite , in the last part of section [ sec : res ] an analysis is performed of concatenated solos of each artist .",
    "obtained results are comparable with those obtained in @xcite , i.e.  networks are small worlds , with a mean shortest distances around @xmath0 and clustering coefficients around @xmath1 .",
    "however , we show that results obtained for concatenated networks are different to the average results for separate solos .",
    "the presented analysis provides novel results and promotes novel applications in the artificial intelligence , didactics and multimedia domains .",
    "in particular , the contributions of this work are the following :    * it is proposed to represent a melodic track as a network ( but this can be extended to a whole instrumental music track ) ; this provides a representation of the entire track and allows calculating some general measures that characterize it .",
    "such a representation provides novel insights into understanding the music composition process and fosters novel applications in this domain .",
    "* we show how complex network theory can be profitably employed in a novel application scenario . *",
    "the proposed representation network model has been applied to a set of guitar solos .",
    "we show that networks associated to different solos do have different topologies ; this allows discriminating among different music solos and music styles of different artists , in general .",
    "an accurate analysis of such tracks can lead to the extrapolation of general characteristics of a given performer .",
    "* we calculate different measures , typical of complex network theory , on the considered networks , and present some aggregate results to characterize these performers .",
    "we measure the length of solos , the dimensions of the networks , the degree distribution , distance metrics , clustering coefficient , centrality measures ( betweenness and eigenvector centralities ) and , finally , we identify that the network representation of certain solos are small worlds .",
    "the paper discusses how these metrics are related to the `` style '' of the performer . * through statistical tests ,",
    "we show that certain musicians have statistically significant differences , by looking at the considered metrics .",
    "as mentioned , the outcomes of such study can have an impact on multimedia applications , intelligent systems and on studies of music classification and identification , in general .",
    "while probably a music track can not be fully described via mathematical measurements , nonetheless , these measures can help in discriminating among the main features of a performer and a music track .",
    "such results can be employed as building blocks inside media applications for the automatic generation of digital music with certain specific characteristics ( e.g. , the generation of a solo ``  la '' miles davis ) .",
    "such applications could be extensively exploited in didactic scenarios , automatic music generation applications , and multimedia entertainment .",
    "the reminder of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section [ sec : terminology ] presents some basic terminology employed in the rest of the paper .",
    "section [ sec : model ] describes the network model for music solos .",
    "section [ sec : metrics ] presents the main metrics , typically employed in complex network theory , that are used to characterize musical solos .",
    "section [ sec : assessment ] discusses on an assessment on a list of solos performed by a set of prominent guitar players .",
    "section [ sec : res ] presents the obtained results .",
    "finally , section [ sec : conc ] provides some concluding remarks .",
    "here , a brief terminology is introduced to avoid potential ambiguities .",
    "a song is a musical piece , which is composed of multiple , simultaneous sounds played by different instruments .",
    "the part of the song played by a single instrument is referred as a track .",
    "notice that an instrument can play different tracks in the song ( e.g.  there are multiple instruments of the same type , or the tracks have been overdubbed ) .",
    "instruments ( e.g.  guitar ) can have a rhythmic ( accompaniment ) and/or a melodic role .",
    "these roles are not exclusive and in the same track an instrument can play both roles during different moments of the song .    the solo is a part of a track where a performer is playing with unobtrusive accompaniment from the other instruments .",
    "( note that even if the solo is a subset of the track , in the following these two terms are used as synonyms , since they both represent a sequence of notes , chords and rests . )",
    "it is employed quite often in jazz , blues , rock songs , where the solo has , usually , the twofold role of : i ) creating a melody ( in certain cases an improvised melody ) , which is alternative to the main melody of the song ; and ii ) showing off the skills of the performer , due to the technical difficulties to play that solo , or due to the ability of the performer to create an intense , touching melody .",
    "needless to say , solos are melodies composed of notes ( or groups of simultaneous notes ) .",
    "a note can be a pitched sound or a rest , lasting for a certain duration .",
    "thus , notes co - occur in melodies .",
    "we define links as co - occurrences of notes in the melody .",
    "more specifically , the approach considers that there is a strict relation ( i.e.  link ) between two notes if these are neighbors ( i.e.  subsequent ) .",
    "this allows capturing a quantitative measure of correlation among notes in the melody .",
    "we mentioned that in this model , a note can be a pitched sound or a rest , lasting for a certain duration .",
    "thus , two notes of the same pitch with different durations are considered as two different network nodes .",
    "rests and chords are other possible nodes of a network .",
    "in fact , it is quite usual to hear performers playing multiple simultaneous notes to create multiple voices in the melody they are composing in the solo ( when the employed instrument allows this , such as with a guitar or a piano ) .",
    "we can represent a track as a directed network , whose nodes are the notes played by the performer .",
    "when a performer plays a note @xmath2 , followed by a subsequent note @xmath3 , we add the two nodes @xmath4 in the network and a directed link @xmath5 from @xmath2 to @xmath3 .",
    "if , for instance , the player subsequently plays another note @xmath6 , we add another node @xmath6 and a link @xmath7 leaving from the already existing node @xmath3 to @xmath6 .",
    "networks can have cycles , i.e  a performer can play two subsequent notes of the same type .",
    "weights can be associated to links @xmath5 , depending on how many times that link @xmath5 is present in the solo , i.e.  how many times the performer plays a sequence of the two @xmath4 notes .    from a mathematical point of view , the simplest form to represent the network is through the use of the adjacency matrix @xmath8 , i.e. , a @xmath9 matrix ( where @xmath10 denotes the amount of nodes of the network ) with elements @xmath11 for weighted networks , we can replace the binary possible values of @xmath12 with a ( non - negative ) associated weight .",
    "figure [ fig : netexample ] shows an example of a simple music score sheet of a melodic line , and the associated network . on top of the score sheet ,",
    "the text label over each note represents the name of the note .",
    "the same label is shown next to the network node associated to the note . in the network ,",
    "a link is created from the @xmath13 node to @xmath14 , @xmath15 , since the first note on the sheet is a @xmath13 , followed by a @xmath14 .",
    "then , a self loop @xmath16 is added to the network , since the third note on the sheet is a @xmath14 , again .",
    "the fourth note is a @xmath13 , that corresponds to the @xmath17 link .",
    "then , there is a sequence of links @xmath18 .",
    "note that there are two different nodes for the two @xmath19 notes , since their pitch is the same ( i.e.  @xmath19 ) , but they have different duration ( the first @xmath19 is a eighth note , while the second one is a half note ) .",
    "it is possible to observe that there is a single link @xmath15 , while the sequence of a @xmath13 note to a @xmath14 note is played twice in the score sheet . to mark this",
    ", a weight might be added to links , so that the @xmath15 link has a double weight with respect to other links , which correspond to note pairs that are played just once .    to sum up , according to the employed model nodes correspond to specific notes .",
    "labels associated to nodes vary depending on the type of note . in case of a single note ,",
    "the related node has a label composed of the note pitch , octave and duration .",
    "a `` rest node '' is labeled with the duration of the rest .",
    "finally , nodes corresponding to chords are labeled with the pitch , octave and duration of each note composing the chord .",
    "0.45     .45     .45     .45     as concerns the amount of possible nodes in a network , in the occidental music an octave ( the interval between one musical pitch and another with half or double its frequency , which is the same note lowered or raised of an octave ) , is composed of twelve sounds .",
    "focusing on electric guitar , as an example , it is usually possible to create sounds belonging to four octaves .",
    "( actually , this is a simplified measure , just to give an idea on the amount of possible nodes ; in fact , a higher amount of sounds can be produced if one considers the possibility of playing the so called  harmonics `` , i.e.  pitch notes quite higher than ' ' usual ones ",
    ". moreover , in certain cases strings can be tuned differently to the standard tuning , so as to produce lower pitches ) .",
    "then , each note has an associated duration .",
    "furthermore , it is possible to create and employ chords ( e.g.  bi - chords , two notes played simultaneously , are quite often exploited in guitar melodies ) .",
    "therefore , according to this model a guitar solo ( and , in general , a track ) can be associated to a network composed of hundreds of nodes .",
    "figure [ fig : somenets ] depicts four examples of networks derived from four famous blues / rock guitar solos .",
    "network image representations have been generated using the apis provided by the open - source software jung ( java universal network / graph ) framework @xcite .",
    "in particular , given a network a graph image is created , using a layout ( i.e.  position of nodes ) that tries to avoid ( or minimize ) nodes and links overlapping .",
    "thus , the spatial position of nodes has no meaning with respect to musical aspects , and spatially near nodes do not necessarily refer to similar notes .",
    "it is interesting to observe that these networks are quite different one from the other .",
    "figure [ fig : bbking ] shows a simple network , with some nodes that have higher in / out degrees ( i.e. , number of links entering or leaving a node ) .",
    "figure [ fig : confnumb ] has a more linear structure , suggesting that the melodic line was `` simple '' , with poor repetitions of single notes .",
    "figure [ fig : crossroads ] appears to be a clustered network , with some few nodes connecting the two clusters .",
    "finally , figure [ fig : redhouse ] has a quite complex structure , with many nodes and with the presence of several hubs .",
    "this suggests that it might be interesting to assess if different artists do have different characteristics that , statistically , produce different types of networks .",
    "an interesting feature of this model is that it describes the track by focusing on its structure and its topology .",
    "the network is composed by different notes , but the main aspect is that these notes create a novel node when they are different from others played in the solo .",
    "the structure of the network is not influenced , for instance , by the tonality of the song , i.e.  the obtained network would be the same if a performer plays the same solo but in different keys .",
    "similarly , we would obtain the same network if the same solo is played at different tempos .",
    "it is worth noticing that usually a melodic line is strongly influenced by the underlying harmonic , chord progression .",
    "modulations and chords alterations are quite common in jazz compositions , where improvisations use and outline the harmony as a foundation for melodic ideas . on one hand",
    ", it is recognized that complex chord progressions do offer performers the ability to vary their melodic lines . on the other hand ,",
    "some other artists assert that a complex chords structure represents a constraint for the improviser , which is forced to follow that structure , while a simpler harmony offers much more freedom for improvising on each individual chord change @xcite . without going into this debate",
    ", we simplify this matter by simply ignoring the chord progression of the considered compositions . hence , while important , in this study we do not focus on the harmonic aspects , just taking the melodic line to create the networks .",
    "this can be regarded as a further work .",
    "anyhow , the harmonic structure implicitly influences the melody that has been created by the artist .",
    "this section presents the main metrics , typically employed in complex network theory , that are used to characterize musical solos .",
    "the length of a musical track is the amount of notes , chords or rests composing the track .",
    "this metrics is different to the temporal duration time of the solo , even if these two metrics are related .",
    "in fact , during a bar , one might play a fast sequence of notes with short duration ( e.g.  a set of @xmath20 sixteenth notes ) that would occupy the same temporal time of a single whole note .",
    "this metrics expresses how much a performer is inclined to elaborate the melodic line he is creating during the solo .",
    "but it is also strongly related to the music genre .",
    "for instance , solos in jazz compositions are usually quite longer than modern pop - rock ones .",
    "this measure is the total amount of nodes in a given network , that is the total amount of different notes that have been played during the solo .",
    "the number of nodes differ from the length of solos , since the length of solo counts multiple times the same note @xmath2 during a solo , i.e.  @xmath2 is counted each time the note is played .",
    "conversely , the amount of nodes counts a note @xmath2 once , if that note has been played during the solo .",
    "the degree of a node @xmath2 is the amount of links that connect @xmath2 with other nodes in the network ( included @xmath2 itself , when a loop is performed ) .",
    "the degree counts how many times the performer decides playing a note , after ( and before ) playing another one .",
    "since the graph is directed , it is worth considering also the in - degrees ( number of links arriving at a certain node ) and out - degrees ( number of links leaving a certain node ) .",
    "the in - degree @xmath21 of a node @xmath2 can be written in terms of the adjacency matrix as @xmath22 while the out - degree is @xmath23 thus , the degree of a node is the summation between its in - degree and out - degree , i.e. @xmath24    a normalized degree is the degree of a node divided by the maximum degree value , so as to obtain a measure between @xmath25 and @xmath26 .",
    "weights can be associated to links and exploited to measure the so called weighted degrees . in this case , a weight is assigned to each link , measuring the amount of times the solo `` traverses '' that link ( i.e. , how many times the performer played those two notes in sequence ) .",
    "thus , the weighted degree is the summation of the weights of links of a given node .",
    "the average distance is the average shortest path length in a network , i.e.  the average number of steps along the shortest paths for all possible pairs of nodes .",
    "the distance between two nodes @xmath4 is the shortest sequence of notes played in a solo starting with @xmath2 and ending with @xmath3 .",
    "it is worth noting that when considering distances in most directed networks obtained from the considered solos , the average path length is infinite , since such directed networks are not strongly connected , i.e.  in these networks it is not possible to create a path from a node to another , for all possible pair of nodes , by employing their directed links .",
    "however , these nets are typically weakly connected ; that is , the corresponding undirected network , obtained by removing the direction information and considering links as bidirectional ones , is connected .",
    "hence , it is possible to find an undirected path from each network node to any other node .",
    "for instance , in the sample network of figure [ fig : netexample ] it is not possible to go from @xmath19 to @xmath13 when we consider the directed net , but a path exists if we consider the undirected network .",
    "distances among nodes are calculated using the standard breadth - first search algorithm , which finds the shortest distance from a single source node to every other node in the network .    in this application domain ,",
    "small networks have a low distance ( as we will see for for the solo depicted in figure [ fig : bbking ] ) .",
    "thus , a higher distance reveals a higher complexity of the solo , in terms of amount of notes .",
    "when we compare networks of the same size , a higher average path length means that going from one note to another a high amount of notes should be traversed , on average . in some sense , similarly to geographical networks where higher distances suggest that only local connections exists , without high jumps from one geographical area to another @xcite , in the case of musical networks one might assume that the player is used to play `` near '' notes , meaning that he prefers combining certain groups of notes in his solo .",
    "this metrics should be considered together with the clustering coefficient .",
    "in fact , these two metrics allow determining if the network is a small world or not ( see next subsections ) .      the clustering coefficient is a measure assessing how much nodes in a graph tend to cluster together .",
    "it measures to what extent friends of a node are friends of one another too .",
    "when two connected nodes have a common neighbor , this triplet of nodes forms a triangle .",
    "the clustering coefficient is defined as @xmath27 where a `` connected triple '' consists of a single node with links reaching a pair of other nodes ; or , in other words , a connected triple is a set of three nodes connected by ( at least ) two links @xcite .",
    "a triangle of nodes forms three connected triplets , thus explaining the factor of three in the formula .    in this context",
    ", a triangle of nodes means that the performer played in a solo multiple times the corresponding three notes in sequence , but in different orders . in other words ,",
    "the presence of many triangles ( i.e.  high clustering coefficient ) indicates that the performer is used to play different clusters of notes in whatever order .",
    "conversely , a low clustering coefficient might indicate that the performer prefers following a specific melodic line with a specific order on triplets .",
    "small world networks are networks that are `` highly clustered , like regular lattices ; yet , they have small characteristic path lengths , like random graphs '' @xcite . in a small world , most nodes are not linked with each other , but most nodes can be reached from every other by a small number of hops . indeed",
    ", in a small - world network the typical distance between two randomly chosen nodes grows proportionally to the logarithm of the number of nodes .",
    "given a network , it is possible to verify if it is a small world , by comparing it with a random graph of the same size .",
    "a random graph is a network with links randomly generated , based on a simple probabilistic model @xcite .",
    "different models can be employed to generate a random graph . according to one of the simplest methods ,",
    "a random graph can be constructed by creating a set of @xmath10 isolated nodes ; then , we consider every possible pair of nodes @xmath2 , @xmath3 , and we add a link @xmath28 with probability @xmath29 , independently of other links .",
    "random graphs exhibit a small average distance among nodes ( varying typically as the logarithm of the number of nodes , @xmath30 ) along with a small clustering coefficient @xmath31 .    in practice",
    ", one can assess whether a network has a small average distance as for a random graph , but a significantly higher clustering coefficient .",
    "in this case , the network is a small world .    in the context of musical solos ,",
    "a small world network ( low distance , high clustering coefficient ) corresponds to a solo where nodes are combined and played in various orders , with a significant amount of connections between notes that are in different clusters ( or , in some sense , in different `` areas '' of the network ) .",
    "conversely , a network that does not exhibit the small world phenomenon might can be obtained from a linear solo ( low clustering coefficient , as we will see for the solo depicted in figure [ fig : confnumb ] ) , or some particularly clustered network ( but with high average path length ) , meaning that the player prefers playing certain groups of notes in his solo , moving from one cluster ( of notes ) to another through some few important notes ( then , we should expect that these notes connecting different clusters have high centrality values , as discussed below ) .",
    "betweenness centrality is a centrality measure that indicates to what extent a node lies on paths between other nodes .",
    "a node with high betweenness has a large influence in the network . if for instance , we consider a communication network , a node with high betweenness has high control over information passing through the network . in this context , a node @xmath2 with high betweenness represents a note that is played within many melodic `` phrases '' ( in the music jargon , these are called `` licks '' ) , since if we want to go from a note to another , we find that the path ( which can be viewed as a typical phrase utilized by the performer ) connecting these two notes passes through @xmath2 . in other words , the presence of nodes with high betweenness indicates that the player has a prevalence of passing through some main notes in his solos .",
    "betweenness of a node @xmath2 is defined as @xmath32 where @xmath33 is the total amount of shortest paths in the network going from @xmath3 to @xmath6 , and @xmath34 is the number of those paths passing through @xmath2 .",
    "this definition of betweenness centrality scales with the number of pairs of nodes , as implied by the summation indices .",
    "when one wants to compare different networks , it is thus convenient to normalize this summation by dividing it by @xmath35 ( with @xmath10 being the number of network nodes ) , which represents the total number of possible ordered node pairs @xcite .",
    "eigenvector centrality is a centrality measure exploited to rank the influence of a node in a network , similarly to betweenness .",
    "it denotes the extent to which a node is an important node connected to other important nodes , i.e. , it assesses how well connected a node is to the parts of the network with the greatest connectivity @xcite .",
    "in other words , this measure ranks nodes based on the concept that connections to nodes with higher ranks contribute more to the ranking of the node in question than equal connections to nodes with low ranks .",
    "thus , notes with high eigenvector represent those that are present in commonly played licks , since they are played together with other commonly exploited notes .",
    "since this centrality measure responds to the statement that `` a node is important if it is linked to by other important nodes '' , we can say that the centrality @xmath36 of a node @xmath2 proportionally depends on the centrality of its neighbors , i.e. @xmath37 to solve this problem , an iterative process can be exploited that computes the estimation of this centrality measure by starting from an arbitrary vector @xmath38 of centrality measures for network nodes , and repeatedly computing the centralities @xmath39 where @xmath40 is the vector of centrality measures of the nodes , computed at the @xmath41-th iteration of this process , and @xmath8 is the adjacency matrix @xcite .",
    "now , if we write @xmath42 as a linear combination of eigenvectors @xmath43 , then the estimation @xmath40 can be written in terms of this combination , and @xmath44 can be written using the eigenvalues @xmath45 of @xmath8 , associated to @xmath43 , i.e. @xmath46 with @xmath47 being the largest eigenvalue .",
    "thus , by repeating this process in the limit @xmath48 , @xmath49 . to sum up ,",
    "the centrality of nodes is proportional to the leading eigenvector of the adjacency matrix @xmath8 , that is @xmath50 , or equivalently @xmath51      given all these metrics , a question is if it is possible to introduce a final measure of similarity between different solos .",
    "this is an aspect that would probably require further studies .",
    "an approach is to measure the similarity of solos by comparing the related networks .",
    "network comparison is recognized as a challenging task and a vast literature exists @xcite .",
    "networks can be compared by looking at their degree distributions .",
    "however , different networks with the same degree distribution may have distinct structural properties @xcite .",
    "thus , the focus on other metrics might provide important indications .",
    "in fact , we might compare two networks according to their density , clustering coefficient , average path lengths , centrality measures , or any other structural measure .    not only , trying to compare the general structure of networks ,",
    "approaches have been proposed that exploit graph isomorphism methods and heat equations on the graphs @xcite .",
    "then , graph kernels methods exploit machine learning to count similar subgraphs within two compared networks . as an example , in @xcite a kernel method is exploited that measures the similarity of two graphs based on the length of all walks between each pair of nodes in the graphs .",
    "another proposed approach is based on counting small subgraphs ( called motifs ) , that represent recurring , significant patterns of interconnections @xcite .",
    "an alternative family of distance measures for network comparison exploits feature vectors to summarize the graph topology @xcite . in particular , through feature vectors and machine learning techniques , a distance metric can computed to obtain the similarity ( or dissimilarity ) of network topological features .",
    "while in this work we do not propose a novel similarity measure among solos and their related network , we claim that comparing the values of the different metrics might provide an overall view of the likeness of the generated networks , and the characteristics of related solos . with this in view , table [ tab : metrics ] summarizes the features provided by the metrics presented in this section .",
    "it is of course a combined analysis ( and comparison ) of these metrics that allows understanding the specific features of a musical solo , as already mentioned in section [ sec : sw ] .    [",
    "cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     table [ tab : apl_concat ] compares the average distance of the concatenated network and the average of the average distances of separate networks of all artists . in this case",
    "there are slight differences .",
    "it is interesting to observe that the average distance of the concatenated networks is in general around @xmath0 , as in @xcite .",
    "based on these results , it is possible to conclude that the concatenation of different solos of an artist is a simple strategy to collect all the licks played in his works .",
    "it might be exploited as a means to capture his whole `` musical vocabulary '' , to be employed during a music generation process @xcite .",
    "thus , it might be manipulated in order to automatically extract common patterns and licks played by the artist in his works ; indeed , the ( non - automatic ) `` manual '' version of such a technique is broadly employed in modern music didactics .    on the other hand ,",
    "the focus on single tracks and solos is probably more accurate , in general . indeed , melodic lines have their own `` meaning '' and intention .",
    "melodies are influenced by the underlying harmonic structure , the tempo and the general mood of the specific track .",
    "thus , what the performer plays is strictly dependent on the track ; this results in a melody that has properties which can be different to those for other tracks .",
    "results obtained on the assessment on single tracks confirm this claim .",
    "conversely , the concatenation of musical tracks changes the value of certain ( average ) metrics , since it aggregates several melodies into a single one .",
    "finally , while the presented assessment focused on the peculiar characteristics of artists , one might decide to study other aspects of a set of solos , such as their similarity .",
    "another example is the study of differences among songs or music genres ; e.g. , melodic songs `` inspire '' artists to create melodies with certain features , while blues melodies have other features . in this case , it is clear that the networks obtained from the tracks are the elements to inspect .    to sum up ,",
    "depending on the analysis , one should identify the most proper musical element ( e.g. , entire track , isolated solo , concatenation of solos , etc . ) to be treated as a network , so as to optimize the analysis .",
    "we presented an approach to model melodies ( and music pieces in general ) as networks . to this aim",
    ", several methods can be exploited ; in this work , a network is created based on a melody / solo , by representing notes as network nodes , and links are added between two nodes if the related notes are played in succession .",
    "a database of different solos played by eight important guitar players has been analyzed through this approach .",
    "some main metrics , typical of complex network theory , have been computed and analyzed , i.e.  length of the solo , number of nodes , degree distribution , distance , clustering coefficient , betweenness and eigenvector centrality measures .",
    "outcomes are in complete accordance with the common opinions of music experts . indeed , there are works where aspects on improvisation and musical styles are considered @xcite . while in agreement to the discussion in this work , there are no quantitative measures that can be compared with our results .",
    "a contribution of this work is that of considering some mathematical metrics that can be employed during the classification of a musician . summing up , jazz guitar players and rock `` virtuoso '' players do create solos corresponding to more complex structures .",
    "conversely , those solos that are usually considered as `` melodic '' have a simpler structure .",
    "blues performers such as b.b .",
    "king are different from other musicians ( as demonstrated via statistical tests ) .",
    "this testifies the correctness of the presented approach .",
    "we argue that the use of a mathematical modeling of a solo ( or a music track in general ) provides a general and compact way to analyze music .",
    "we noticed interesting differences among performers in the degree distributions , distance measures , clustering coefficient and betweenness .",
    "moreover , we assessed that some networks / solos are small worlds , while others , usually melodic ones , do not",
    ". this suggests that further studies might be done to classify solos , regardless of the performers that played them .",
    "the provided insights stimulate new questions on the possibility to fully characterize and capture the artistic traits and skills of a musician , through mathematical concepts .",
    "the application scenarios of this study are related to the possible development of innovative applications related to music classification and categorization . moreover , the proposed framework can be exploited as a tool during the automatic generation of music . if we are able to harness the main characteristics of a musician , it would be possible to combine this approach to some artificial intelligence machinery and generate , for example , a solo ``  la '' miles davis . as an example",
    ", these results suggest that a `` bluesy '' solo should have a high clustering coefficient and low distance ; a `` modern rock '' solo should have high distance and an average degree lower than other genres , while a `` melodic '' solo should have a simple network structure .",
    "this might have interesting applications in music didactics , multimedia entertainment , and digital music generation .",
    "another interesting further work is related to the clustering of musical solos , so that to group them , provide support for speculative analysis and capture the typical characteristics of a given `` type of solo '' , regardless of the particular musician that might have played it .",
    "a.  anglade , q.  mary , r.  ramirez , s.  dixon , q.  mary , genre classification using harmony rules induced from automatic chord transcriptions , in : in 10th international society for music information retrieval conference , 2009 .",
    "a.  berenzweig , b.  logan , d.  p.  w. ellis , b.  p.  w. whitman , a large - scale evaluation of acoustic and subjective music - similarity measures , comput .",
    "music j. 28  ( 2 ) ( 2004 ) 6376 .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/10.1162/014892604323112257    c.  biemann , s.  roos , k.  weihe , quantifying semantics using complex network analysis , in : coling 2012 , 24th international conference on computational linguistics , proceedings of the conference : technical papers , 8 - 15 december 2012 , mumbai , india , 2012 , pp .",
    "s.  boccaletti , v.  latora , y.  moreno , m.  chavez , d .- u .",
    "hwang , complex networks : structure and dynamics , physics reports 424  ( 45 ) ( 2006 ) 175  308 .",
    "m.  boothroyd , modal jazz and miles davis : george russell s influence and the melodic inspiration behind modal jazz , canadian undergraduate journal of musicology 3 .",
    "i.  grabska - gradziska , a.  kulig , j.  kwapien , s.  drozdz , complex network analysis of literary and scientific texts , international journal of modern physics c 23  ( 07 ) .",
    "j.  h.  h. grisi - filho , r.  ossada , f.  ferreira , m.  amaku , scale - free networks with the same degree distribution : different structural properties .",
    ", corr abs/1306.0233 .",
    "http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/journals/corr/corr1306.html#grisi-filhoofa13        x.  f. liu , c.  k. tse , m.  small , complex network structure of musical compositions : algorithmic generation of appealing music , physica a : statistical mechanics and its applications 389  ( 1 ) ( 2010 ) 126  132 .",
    "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/s0378437109006827    s.  lu , j.  kang , w.  gong , d.  towsley , complex network comparison using random walks , in : proceedings of the 23rd international conference on world wide web , www 14 companion , acm , new york , ny , usa , 2014 , pp .",
    "b.  manaris , j.  romero , p.  machado , d.  krehbiel , t.  hirzel , w.  pharr , r.  b. davis , zipf s law , music classification , and aesthetics , comput .",
    "music j. 29  ( 1 ) ( 2005 ) 5569 .",
    "r.  milo , s.  shen - orr , s.  itzkovitz , n.  kashtan , d.  chklovskii , u.  alon , network motifs : simple building blocks of complex networks , science 298  ( 5594 ) ( 2002 ) 824827 .",
    "t.  pardo , l.  antiqueira , m.  das gracas  nunes , o.  n. oliveira , l.  da  fontoura  costa , using complex networks for language processing : the case of summary evaluation , in : communications , circuits and systems proceedings , 2006 international conference on , vol .  4 , 2006 , pp .",
    "26782682 .",
    "b.  g. patra , d.  das , s.  bandyopadhyay , unsupervised approach to hindi music mood classification , in : proceedings of the first international conference on mining intelligence and knowledge exploration - volume 8284 , mike 2013 , springer - verlag new york , inc . ,",
    "new york , ny , usa , 2013 , pp .",
    "6269 .",
    "d.  schnitzer , a.  flexer , g.  widmer , a filter - and - refine indexing method for fast similarity search in millions of music tracks , in : proceedings of the 10th international society for music information retrieval conference , kobe , japan , 2009 , pp .",
    "537542 .",
    "d.  su , p.  fung , personalized music emotion classification via active learning , in : proceedings of the second international acm workshop on music information retrieval with user - centered and multimodal strategies , mirum 12 , acm , new york , ny , usa , 2012 , pp . 5762 .",
    "m.  a. winget , annotations on musical scores by performing musicians : collaborative models , interactive methods , and music digital library tool development , journal of the american society for information science and technology 59  ( 12 ) ( 2008 ) 18781897 .",
    "yang , c .- c .",
    "liu , h.  h. chen , music emotion classification : a fuzzy approach , in : proceedings of the 14th acm international conference on multimedia , mm 06 , acm , new york , ny , usa , 2006 , pp . 8184 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> notes in a musical piece are building blocks employed in non - random ways to create melodies . </S>",
    "<S> it is the `` interaction '' among a limited amount of notes that allows constructing the variety of musical compositions that have been written in centuries and within different cultures . </S>",
    "<S> networks are a modeling tool that is commonly employed to represent a set of entities interacting in some way . </S>",
    "<S> thus , notes composing a melody can be seen as nodes of a network that are connected whenever these are played in sequence . </S>",
    "<S> the outcome of such a process results in a directed graph . by using complex network theory , </S>",
    "<S> some main metrics of musical graphs can be measured , which characterize the related musical pieces . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we define a framework to represent melodies as networks . </S>",
    "<S> then , we provide an analysis on a set of guitar solos performed by main musicians . </S>",
    "<S> results of this study indicate that the presented model can have an impact on audio and multimedia applications such as music classification , identification , e - learning , automatic music generation , multimedia entertainment .    </S>",
    "<S> complex networks , musical scores , centrality measures </S>"
  ]
}