{
  "article_text": [
    "bathymetry data is usually obtained by single or multi beam sonar or bathymetry lidar .",
    "sonar systems acquire data points by collecting information from reflected acoustic signals .",
    "single beam sonar is the traditional technique for acquiring bathymetry data and it collects data as discrete point data long the the path of a vessel equipped with single beam acoustic depth sounders . the equipment is easy to attach to the boat and the acquisition cost is lower than for alternative acquisition methods",
    ". the obtained data sets , however , have a scan line like pattern , which gives a highly inhomogeneous point cloud as input to a surface generation application .",
    "acquisition of bathymetric data with multi beam echo sounder ( mbes ) is nowadays of common use .",
    "a swath mbes system produces multiple acoustic beams from a single transducer in a wide angle .",
    "it generates points in a large band around the vessel on which the equipment is installed .",
    "the swath width varies from 3 to 7 times the water depth . in shallow areas ,",
    "the results of a multi beam sonar degenerates to that of the single beam sonar as the sonar angle is reduced due to a short distance to the sea bottom .",
    "multi beam sonar data acquisition is described in some detail in  @xcite .",
    "lidar ( light detection and ranging ) measures elevation or depth by analyzing the reflections of pulses of laser light from an object .",
    "near shore , especially in shallow areas or in rough waters that are difficult to reach by a sea - born vessel , data acquisition using bathymetry lidar is a good alternative to sonar .",
    "bathymetry lidar differs from topography lidar by the wavelength of the signals that are used . to be able to penetrate the water , a shorter wavelength",
    "is required , so green light is used instead of red .",
    "this change reduces the effect of the power used by the laser , and bathymetry lidar becomes more costly than the topography equivalent .",
    "our aim is to represent a specified region with a seamless surface .",
    "some parts of the region are only covered by one survey , while other areas are covered by numerous surveys obtained by different acquisition methods .",
    "where no survey data exists , even vector data created from navigation charts may be taken as input .",
    "collections of bathymetric surveys are a source of potentially `` big data '' structured as point clouds .",
    "individual surveys vary both spatially and temporally and can overlap with many other similar surveys . where depth soundings differ greatly between surveys , a strategy needs to be employed to determine how to create an optimal bathymetric surface based on all of the relevant , available data , i.e. , select the best data for surface creation .",
    "the digital elevation model ( dem ) is the most common format for representing surfaces in geographical information systems ( gis ) .",
    "dem uses a raster format for storage .",
    "rasters are rectangular arrays of cells ( or pixels ) , each of which stores a value for the part of the surface it covers .",
    "a given cell contains a single value , so the amount of detail that can be represented for the surface is limited by the raster cell resolution .",
    "the elevation in a cell is frequently estimated using the height values of nearby points .",
    "the estimation methods include , but are not restricted to , the inverse weighted interpolation method , also called shepard s method  @xcite , natural neighbour interpolation , radial basis functions and kriging  @xcite .",
    "alternatively , one of the existing points lying within the cell can be selected to represent the cell elevation .    triangulated irregular network ( tin )",
    "is used to some extend in gis context .",
    "sample data points serve as vertices in the triangulation , which normally is computed as a delaunay triangulation .",
    "a triangulated surface can interpolate all points in the point cloud exactly , but for large data sizes an approximate solution is more appropriate .",
    "the triangulation data structure is flexible and an irregular and well - chosen distribution of nodes allows capturing rapid changes in the represented sea bed or terrain .",
    "the purpose of trend surfaces is not representation of terrains , but data analytics .",
    "these surfaces are described by polynomials of low degree globally approximating the data .",
    "trend surface analysis is used to identify general trends in the data and the input data can be separated into two components : the trend corresponding to the concept of regional features and the residual corresponding to local features . very often , however , the global , polynomial surface becomes too simplistic compared to the data .    in gis context",
    ", splines are almost entirely understood as regularized splines or splines in tension in the context of radial basis functions . only in rare instances splines",
    "are used for terrain modeling . however , sulebak et .",
    "al . ,  @xcite , use multi - resolution splines in geomorphology",
    ". we aim at using polynomial spline surfaces to represent our final result .",
    "moreover , in the process of selecting data surveys for the surface generation , we use spline surfaces as extended trend surfaces .",
    "spline surfaces are able to compactly represent smooth shapes , but our bathymetry data are not likely to describe a globally smooth seabed .",
    "thus , we turn our attention towards locally refineable splines in the form of lr b - spline surfaces .    section  [ lrsplines ] gives a brief overview of the concept of lr b - splines . in section  [ surfgen ]",
    ", we will present the construction of lr b - spline surfaces and collections of such surfaces approximating point clouds from bathymetry data .",
    "the topic of section  [ deconfliction ] is the deconfliction process discussed in the context of outliers detection , both for geo - spatial data and in a more general setting .",
    "finally , we will present a conclusion including plans for further work in section  [ conclusion ] .",
    "[ fig : box_partition ] , width=245 ]    lr b - spline surfaces are spline surfaces defined on a box partition as visualized in figure  [ fig : box_partition ] , see  @xcite for a detailed description of the theory .",
    "in contrast to the well - known tensor - product spline surfaces , lr b - spline spline surfaces posses the property of local refineability .",
    "new knot lines , _ not _ covering the entire domain of the surface , can be added to the surface description .",
    "the new knot line must , however , cover the support of at least one b - spline .",
    "the local refinement property implies that models with varying degree of detail can be represented without the drastic increase in model size that would arise in the tensor - product representation .",
    "other approaches addressing the problem of lack of local refimenent methods in the tensor - product construction are hierarchical splines  @xcite and t - splines  @xcite .    an lr - b spline surface @xmath0 is expressed with respect to parameters @xmath1 and @xmath2 as @xmath3 where @xmath4 are the surface coefficients , @xmath5 are the associated b - splines and @xmath6 are scaling factors that ensure partition of unity .",
    "the b - splines are constructed by taking the tensor - products of univariate b - splines , and are thus defined on a set of knots in both parameter directions .",
    "they have polynomial degree @xmath7 and @xmath8 in the first and second parameter direction , respectively .",
    "lr b - spline surfaces possess most of the properties of tensor - product spline surfaces , such as non - negative b - spline functions , limited support of b - splines and partition of unity , which ensure numerical stability and modelling accuracy .",
    "linear independence of the b - spline functions is not guaranteed by default . for lr",
    "b - spline surfaces of degree two and three and knot insertion restricted to the middle of knot intervals , no cases of linear dependency are known , but the mathematocal proof is still not completed .",
    "actual occurrences of linear dependence can be detected by the peeling algorithm ,  @xcite , and it can be resolved by a strategy of carefully chosen knot insertions .",
    "we assume the input to be one point cloud where the initial bathymetry data is translated to points represented by their @xmath9 , @xmath10 , and @xmath11-coordinates .",
    "the points can be obtained from one data survey or collected from several surveys .",
    "no further preprocessing of the points is performed .    to exploit the local refineability of the lr b - spline surfaces and to optimize the positioning of the degrees of freedom in the surface , we apply an adaptive surface generation approach using two different approximation methods over given spline spaces .    due to the acquisition methods , bathymetry data is normally projective onto their @xmath9 and @xmath10-coordinates .",
    "thus , it is possible to parameterize the points by these coordinates and approximate the height values ( @xmath11-coordinates ) by a function",
    ". in steep areas , however , a parametric surface would be more appropriate .",
    "this issue is discussed in  @xcite . in this paper , we will concentrate on approximation of height values .    the description of the surface generation method in the remainder of this section is partly fetched from  @xcite and  @xcite .",
    "the aim of the approximation is to fit an lr - spline surface to a given point cloud within a certain threshold or tolerance .",
    "normally this is achieved for the majority of points in the cloud , and any remaining points that are not within the tolerance after a certain number of iterations can be subject to further investigation .",
    "algorithm  [ alg : framework ] outlines the framework of the adaptive surface approximation method .    initiate lr / tensor - product space generate initial surface approximation    the polynomial bi - degree of the generated lr b - spline surface can be of any degree higher than one , however , in most cases a quadratic ( degree two ) surface will suffice .",
    "quadratic surfaces ensure @xmath12-continuity across knot lines with multiplicity one , and as terrains often exhibits rapid variations higher order smoothness may be too restrictive",
    ".    the algorithm is initiated by creating a coarse tensor - product spline space .",
    "an initial lr b - spline surface is constructed by approximating the point cloud in this spline space . a tensor - product spline space can always be represented by an lr b - spline surface while an lr b - spline surface can be turned into a tensor - product spline surface by extending all knot lines to become global in the parameter domain of the surface .    in each iteration step , a surface approximation is performed .",
    "two approximation methods are used for this purpose , least squares approximation and multi - resolution b - spline approximation ( mba ) .",
    "both approximation methods are general algorithms applied to parametric surfaces , which have been adapted for use with lr b - splines .",
    "typically least squares approximation is used for the first iterations as it is a global method with very good approximation properties , while we turn to the mba method when there is a large variety in the size of the polynomial elements of the surface .",
    "a comparison of the performance of the two methods can be found in  @xcite .",
    "the distances between the points in the point cloud and the surface is computed to produce a distance field . in our setting the surface",
    "is parameterized by the @xmath13-plane and the computation can be performed by a vertical projection mainly consisting of a surface evaluation .",
    "next we identify the regions of the domain that do not meet the tolerance requirements and refine the representation in these areas to provide more degrees of freedom for the approximation .",
    "specifically , we identify b - splines whose support contain data points where the accuracy is not satisfied , in their support are identified and introduce new knot lines , in one or two parameter directions depending on the current distance field configuration .",
    "the new knot lines must cover the support of at least one b - spline . in each iteration step , many new knot line segments will be inserted in the surface description , giving rise to the splitting of many b - splines .",
    "the splitting of one b - spline may imply that an existing knot line segment partly covering its support will now completely cover the support of one of the new b - splines that , in turn , is split by this knot line .",
    "least squares approximation is a global method for surface approximation where the following penalty function is minimized with respect to the coefficients @xmath14 over the surface domain , @xmath15 : @xmath16 here @xmath17 , are the input data points .",
    "@xmath18 is a smoothing term , which is added to the functional to improve the surface quality and ensure a solvable system even if some basis functions lack data points in their support .",
    "the approximation is weighted ( by the scalars @xmath19 and @xmath20 ) in order to favour either the smoothing term or the least squares approximation , respectively .",
    "the smoothing term is given by @xmath21    the expression approximates the minimization of a measure involving surface area , curvature and variation in curvature . using parameter dependent measures ,",
    "the minimization of the approximation functional is reduced to solving a linear equation system . in most cases @xmath22 while @xmath23 . in our case , however , @xmath24 and @xmath25 as we utilize 2nd degree polynomials . a number of smoothing terms exist .",
    "the one given above is presented in  @xcite .",
    "other measures can be found in  @xcite , and  @xcite looks into the effect of choosing different smoothing functionals .    in equation  [ eq : jf ] ,",
    "a directional derivative is defined from the first , second and third derivatives of the surface , and in each point @xmath26 in the parameter domain , this derivative is integrated radially .",
    "the result is integrated over the parameter domain .",
    "experience shows that the approximation term must be prioritized in order to achieve a good approximation to the data points .",
    "this is in conflict with the role of the smoothing term as a guarantee for a solvable equation system .",
    "estimated height values in areas sparsely populated by data points , are thus included to stabilize the computations .",
    "some details on the stability of least squares approximation used in this context can be found in  @xcite .",
    "multilevel b - spline approximation ( mba ) is a local approximation method  @xcite .",
    "surface coefficients are computed with respect to the distances between data points in the support of the b - spline functions corresponding to the coefficients and a current surface .",
    "the procedure is explicit and does not require solving an equation system .    a surface approximating the residuals between a point cloud and a current surface is computed as follows .",
    "let @xmath27 , be the data points above the support of a given b - spline and @xmath28 the residual corresponding to @xmath29 .",
    "as the initial point cloud is scattered , there is a large variation in the number of points .",
    "if the b - spline has no points in its support or if all the points are closer to the surface than a prescribed tolerance , the corresponding coefficient is set to zero .",
    "otherwise , a coefficient @xmath4 is determined by the following expression : @xmath30 where @xmath31 is computed for the residual of each data point as @xmath32 the sum in the denominator is taken over all b - splines which contain @xmath33 in their support .    the algorithm is based on a b - spline approximation technique proposed for image morphing and is explained in  @xcite for multilevel b - spline approximation . in the original setting a number of difference surfaces approximating the distances between the point cloud and the current surface is computed .",
    "the final surface is evaluated by computing the sum of the initial surface and all the difference surfaces . in the lr b - splines setting , the computed difference function",
    "is incrementally added to the initial surface at each step giving a unified expression for the surface .",
    "very large point clouds are unfit for being approximated by one surface due to memory restrictions and high computation times . during surface generation",
    "each data point is accessed a number of times , and a tiling approach allows for efficient parallelization over several nodes . moreover , a large number of points are potentially able to represent a high level of detail , which gives rise to approximating lr b - spline surfaces with higher data size . the surface size should , however , be restricted as the non - regularity of the polynomial patches penalizes data structure traversals when the surface is large ( more than 50 000 polynomial patches ) .",
    "we apply tiling to improve computational efficiency and limit the size of the produced surface , and select a regular tiling approach to enable easy identification of tiles based on the @xmath34 and @xmath35 coordinates of the points .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     figure  [ fig : deconex2 - 2 ] shows overlap zones between three data surveys together with the kept points ( a ) and the removed points ( b ) .",
    "the distances are computed with respect to the reference surface , which is made with deconfliction level 4 .",
    "the point colours in these zones indicate that the points from different surveys are more than twice the tolerance apart , and consequently the overlap points from the lowest prioritized survey are removed .",
    "a good data reduction effect has been obtained by approximating bathymetry point clouds with lr b - spline surfaces .",
    "the approach handles inhomogeneous point clouds and can be used also for topography data , but is mostly suitable if the data set is to some extent smooth or if we want to extract the trend of the data .",
    "data sets that mainly represent vegetation are less suitable .",
    "we have developed an algorithm for automated deconfliction given a set of overlapping and possibly inconsistent data surveys .",
    "the cleaned point sets lead to surfaces with a much smaller risk of oscillations due to noise in the input data .",
    "the results so far are promising , but there is still potential for further improvements .",
    "interesting aspects to investigate include :    * outlier removal in individual data surveys prior to deconfliction . * investigation of secondary trend surface approximations based on residuals in situations with many points in an element and small overlaps between the data sets , to detect if there is a systematic behaviour in the approximation errors with respect to the current reference surface .",
    "* continued investigation of the effect of refinement of the lr b - spline surface to create a suitable reference surface .",
    "aspects to study are number of iterations and a possibility for downwards limitations regarding element size and number of points in an element .",
    "* there is no principal difference between surface modelling and deconfliction in 2.5d and 3d .",
    "still , an investigation regarding which dimensionality to choose in different configurations could be useful .",
    "* a data survey can be subject to a systematic difference with respect to another survey due to differences in registration , for instance the vertical datum can differ .",
    "identification and correction of such occurrences are not covered by the current work .",
    "differences in registration is a global feature of the data set .",
    "indications of it can be detected locally for the reference surface elements , but the determination of an occurrence must be made globally .    4 bhattacharyya g.k . and johnson r.a . statistical concepts and methods .",
    "john wiley sons , new york ( 1977 ) bchenschtz - nothdurft , o. , pronk , m.j .",
    ", van opstal , l.h .",
    ": latest developments in bathymetry data processing and its application to sandwave detection .",
    "marine sandwave and river dune dynamics  1 & 2 .",
    "april 2004 .",
    "debese , n. multibeam echosounder data cleaning through an adaptive surface - based approach .",
    "us hydro 07 norfolk , may 2007 dokken , t. , pettersen , k.f . ,",
    "lyche , t. polynomial splines over locally refined box - partitions .",
    "computer aided geometric design 30(3 ) , 331  356 ( 2013 ) floater , m.s .",
    ", iske , a. multistep scattered data interpolation using compactly supported radial basis functions , journal of computational and applied mathematics 73 , 65  78 ( 1996 ) forsey , d.r . , bartels , r.h .. surface fitting with hierarchical splines .",
    "acm transactions on graphics 14(2 ) , 134  161 ( 1995 ) greiner , g. , hormann , k. interpolating and approximating scattered 3d - data with hierarchical tensor product b - splines . in surface fitting and multiresolution methods , a. le mhaut , c. rabut , l. l. shumaker editors .",
    "vanderbildt university press , nashville , 163  172 ( 1997 ) hennis , n. automatic outlier detection in multibeam data .",
    "master thesis delft university of technology .",
    "september 2003 .",
    "hodge , v.j . and",
    "austin , j. a survey of outlier detection methodologies . artificial intelligence review , 22 ( 2 ) , 85  126 ( 2004 ) johannessen , k.a . , kvamsdal t. , dokken t. isogeometric analysis using lr b - splines .",
    "computer methods in applied mechanics and engineering .",
    "december 2013 .",
    "lee , s. , wolberg , g. , shin , s.y .",
    "scattered data interpolation with multilevel b - splines .",
    "ieee transaction on visualization and computer graphics ,",
    "3(3 ) , 229  244 ( 1997 ) lu , d. , li , h. , wei , y. , zhou , t. automatic outlier detection in multibeam bathymetry data using robust lts estimation .",
    "2010 3rd international congress on image and signal processing ( cisp 2010 ) mehlum , e. , skytt , v. surface editing .",
    "numerical methods and software tools in industrial mathematics , m. dhlen , a. tveito editors .",
    "birkhusser , boston ( 1997 ) mitas , l. , mitasova , h .. spatial interpolation , geographic information systems - principles , techniques , management , and applications , p. longle y , m. f. goodchild , d. j. maguire , and d. w. rhind , editors , 481  498 ( 2005 ) nist / sematech e - handbook of statistical methods , http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/eda/section3//eda3672.htm ( 2012 ) nist / sematech e - handbook of statistical methods , http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/eda/section3//eda353.htm ( 2012 ) nowacki , h. , westgaard , g. , heimann , j. creation of fair surfaces based on higher order fairness measures with interpolation constraints . creating fair and shape - preserving curves and surfaces , h. nowacki , p. d. kaklis editors , b. g. teubner stuttgart , leipzig ( 1998 ) oliver , m.a . , webster , r. kriging : a method of interpolation for geographical information system , int .",
    "j. geographical information systems , 4(3 ) , 323  332 ( 1990 ) remonato , f. on local refinement in isogeometric analysis .",
    "a comparative study on classical hieararchical , truncated hierarchical and lr b - splines .",
    "master thesis .",
    "ntnu - trondheim , norwegian university of science and technology : ( 2014 ) sederberg , t.w . ,",
    "zheng , j. , bakenov , a. , nasri , a. t - splines and t - nurccs .",
    "acm trans .",
    "22(3 ) , 477  484 , ( 2003 ) shepard , d. a two - dimensional interpolation function for irregularly spaced data , proc .",
    "acm , 517  523 ( 1968 ) skytt v. , barrowclough o. and dokken t. locally refined spline surfaces for representation of terrain data .",
    "computers @xmath36 graphics 49 : 48  58 ( 2015 ) skytt v. , patan g. , barrowclough o. , dokken t. , and spagnuolo m. spatial and environmental data approximation . in heterogeneous spatial data : fusion , modeling and analysis for gis applications .",
    "patan g. and spagnuolo m. syntesis lectures on visual computing morgan @xmath36 claypool publishers .",
    "april 2016 .",
    "sulebak , j.r . and",
    "hjelle ,  .",
    "multiresolution spline models and their applications in geomorphology .",
    "evans , r. dikau , r. tokunaga , h. ohmori , m. hirano ( eds . ) , concepts and modeling in geomorphology : international perspectives , terra publications , tokyo , 221  237 ( 2003 ) zhang , w. , tang , z. , li , j. adaptive hierachical b - spline surface approximation of large - scale scattered data .",
    "computer graphics and applications .",
    "pacific graphics 98 .",
    "sixt pacific conference , ( 1998 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a set of bathymetry point clouds acquired by different measurement techniques at different times , having different accuracy and varying patterns of points , are approximated by an lr b - spline surface . </S>",
    "<S> the aim is to represent the sea bottom with good accuracy and at the same time reduce the data size considerably . in this process </S>",
    "<S> the point clouds must be cleaned by selecting the `` best '' points for surface generation . </S>",
    "<S> this cleaning process is called deconfliction , and we use a rough approximation of the combined point clouds as a reference surface to select a consistent set of points . the reference surface is updated with the selected points to create an accurate approximation . </S>",
    "<S> lr b - splines is the selected surface format due to its suitability for adaptive refinement and approximation , and its ability to represent local detail without a global increase in the data size of the surface .     </S>",
    "<S> +   +    bathymetry , surface generation , deconfliction , lr b - splines </S>"
  ]
}