{
  "article_text": [
    "solar energetic particles ( seps ) are charged energetic particles occasionally emitted by the sun during its burst events . generally , seps are produced by solar flares or / and related to coronal mass ejections ( cmes ) , although the relative importance of flares and cme - driven shocks in producing high - energy particles is not completely understood .",
    "the propagation of seps in the heliosphere remains one of the important subjects of space physics , heliophysics , and plasma physics .",
    "in addition , large solar proton events ( spes ) significantly affect the solar - terrestrial space environment , and thereby have become an important topic in the research fields of space radiation , space weather , and space climate .",
    "recently , multi - spacecraft observations ( stereo - a / b , ace , soho , wind , etc . ) and three - dimensional transport modeling have been intensely used in the studies of sep events .",
    "essentially , the propagation of seps in interplanetary space includes several fundamental physical mechanisms , such as particle streaming along magnetic field lines , convection with the solar wind , adiabatic magnetic focusing , pitch - angle diffusion , adiabatic cooling , and perpendicular diffusion . according to the well - known quasi - linear theory for cosmic ray diffusion @xcite ,",
    "the perpendicular diffusion coefficient is usually much smaller than the parallel diffusion coefficient .",
    "therefore , the effects of perpendicular diffusion were often ignored in previous theoretical , numerical , and observational studies of sep propagation . however , the observations of sep events detected by the helios mission proposed some nonlinear effects near @xmath1 pitch angle of particles ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "further investigations showed that when the magnetic turbulence is quite strong , the perpendicular diffusion could be comparable to the parallel diffusion ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "recently , with the launch of the twin spacecraft stereo - a / b and the development of three - dimensional transport modeling , the significant role of perpendicular diffusion in the sep propagation has become gradually and increasingly well known in the sep community .",
    "the important effects of perpendicular diffusion on sep transport and distribution in the heliosphere were found in both numerical modeling studies and observational studies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "note that the diffusion could not only be anisotropic with respect to the directions perpendicular and parallel to the magnetic field , but that it could also be fully anisotropic .",
    "for example , the case of two different perpendicular diffusion coefficients has been discussed in @xcite , and also applied to seps by @xcite . in the sense of perpendicular diffusion ,",
    "some interesting sep phenomena were reproduced or found by performing complete model calculations of sep propagation in the three - dimensional interplanetary magnetic field with the effects of turbulence ( for a recent brief review , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    in previous simulation works",
    ", it was found that with the same heliographic longitude separation between the magnetic footpoint of the observer and the solar sources , the seps associated with the sources located at east are detected earlier and with larger fluxes than those associated with the sources located at west @xcite .",
    "this sep phenomenon was called the  east - west azimuthal asymmetry \" by @xcite . in this work ,",
    "we focus on the so - called east - west azimuthal asymmetry of seps in view of statistical analysis of solar proton events .",
    "we mainly pay attention to the relatively longitudinal distribution of solar proton events .",
    "the longitudinally asymmetric distribution phenomenon of solar proton events is found . with the same longitudinal separation between magnetic footpoint of observer and solar sources ,",
    "the number of the spes originating from sources located on the eastern side of the magnetic footpoint of observer is larger than the number of the spes from sources located on the western side .",
    "essentially , this observational result is consistent with our previous numerical simulation results .",
    "we further discuss in detail the physical mechanism responsible for this sep phenomenon in two scenarios , i.e. ,  multiple sep events with one spacecraft \" and  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" .",
    "the effects of perpendicular diffusion on the heliospheric propagation and the east - west longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution of seps are emphasized in the discussions .",
    "we also compare our statistical and numerical results with the observational study of @xcite . in the context of perpendicular diffusion , our results and those of @xcite are unified and identified with each other .",
    "this paper is structured as follows . in section 2 ,",
    "we briefly describe the collected data set of 78 solar proton events accumulated during 1996 - 2011 , based on which the statistical analysis will be carried out . in section 3 ,",
    "we present the statistical results of the 78 solar proton events . in section 4",
    ", we discuss the physical mechanism responsible for the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of sep distribution in the heliosphere .",
    "the important effects of perpendicular diffusion will be discussed in detail .",
    "the inherent relationship between our works and other statistical survey of sep events @xcite will be discussed in section 5 .",
    "a summary of our results will be provided in section 6 .",
    "the 78 solar proton events affecting the earth environment detected during 1996 - 2011 are collected from space weather prediction center of national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) .",
    "the solar proton events and associated flares and cmes are listed in table [ table : events ] .",
    "the maximum intensity of each solar proton event for energies @xmath2 mev is larger than 10 particle flux units ( pfu ) .",
    "note that 1 pfu=1 particles/(@xmath3 ) .",
    "we also note that the 78 solar proton events presented in table [ table : events ] are collected from the original listing by excluding the events without identifiable origin location on the solar surface .",
    "the sep events without definite source location are randomly distributed on the solar surface , i.e. , the sep events excluded from the listing may locate on either the eastern or the western side of the solar surface .",
    "the first three columns in table [ table : events ] give the start time , maximum time , and proton flux of each sep event , respectively . the main direction and onset time of cme associated with each particle event",
    "are listed in column 4 .",
    "columns 5 and 6 provide the maximum time and importance ( x ray / optical ) of flare associated with each sep event . the majority of the sep events presented in table 1 were observed at the onset of the solar events .",
    "generally , intense sep events are usually associated with both major flares and large cmes , and consequently , the relative roles of flares and cme - driven shocks in producing high - energy particles are not completely understood @xcite .",
    "in addition , most of the seps in impulsive events are released near the surface of the sun . even in many gradual events , energetic particles , particularly those with high energies ,",
    "are generated near the sun , where the shock is very fast , the magnetic field is quite strong and the seed particles are dense @xcite .",
    "therefore , in the investigation , we do not particularly discriminate between the two types of particle sources .",
    "the location and number of each associated active region are listed in columns 7 and 8 , respectively .",
    "the last three columns in table [ table : events ] provide the solar wind speeds measured by spacecraft solar and heliospheric observatory ( soho ) , ace , and the mean value of them , respectively . by averaging soho or ace data measured in the time interval @xmath4 $ ] ,",
    "in which @xmath5 indicates the maximum time of the corresponding sep event , we can obtain the solar wind speed in each sep event .",
    "the averaged solar wind speed will be used in our statistical investigation . as one can see , for some solar proton events , only the soho data of solar wind speeds are available , and for some events , only the ace data are available . moreover ,",
    "if there are not valid solar wind speed data in the time range @xmath6 $ ] for a certain solar proton event , the averaged solar wind speed obtained from the complete observational data on the whole day when the maximum of the event occurred will be used . in addition , we note that the solar wind speed @xmath7 during the 2003 october 28 solar proton event listed in table [ table : events ] is adopted from @xcite .    in the investigation",
    ", we utilize the solar wind speeds according to the rules as : if both of the solar wind speeds obtained from soho and ace data , respectively , are available , then we employ the mean value of them , i.e. , @xmath8 , where @xmath9 and @xmath10 are the solar wind speeds averaged from soho and ace data , respectively ; otherwise , the solar wind speed derived from the measurements by a single spacecraft ( soho or ace ) will be used .",
    "the rotation angle of the nominal interplanetary magnetic field line connecting the observer at radial distance @xmath11 with the sun can be calculated through this expression ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) @xmath12 here , @xmath13 indicates the sun s angular rotation rate , @xmath11 indicates the heliocentric radial distance , and @xmath14 indicates the solar wind speed .",
    "note that the nominal magnetic footpoint of the spacecraft calculated through the above expression may differ from the actual footpoint , since sometimes the deviations of the interplanetary magnetic field can be significant .",
    "but in the statistical sense , this will not affect our main results .",
    "the west and east heliographic longitudes @xmath15 of the solar sources are usually indicated by positive and negative values , respectively .",
    "the relative longitude @xmath16 between the solar flare and the observer s magnetic footpoint can be obtained via this relation @xmath17 according to the realistic solar wind speed measured by the spacecraft , we can obtain the relative longitude @xmath16 for each solar proton event listed in table [ table : events ] .    . adapted from figure 1 of @xcite . ]",
    "we present the statistical result of the solar proton events in figure [ observation ] .",
    "a preliminary result was reported in @xcite . in the upper panel",
    ", it can be seen that the solar flares are primarily distributed within @xmath18 $ ] , which is consistent with the result in @xcite .",
    "we divide the relative longitude @xmath16 into bins : @xmath19 $ ] , @xmath20 $ ] , @xmath21 , @xmath22 $ ] .",
    "the number percentage distribution of the solar events along the relative longitude @xmath16 is presented in the lower panel .",
    "we note that the negative value ( left ) and positive value ( right ) indicate that the solar flares locate on the eastern side and western side of the magnetic footpoint of observer , respectively . to directly compare the event number percentages between the east and west relative longitude ,",
    "the event number percentages on the right side are mirrored to the left side , indicated by a blue dotted line .",
    "we mainly pay attention to the central longitude range of the visible side of the sun , as indicated between the two vertical lines in figure [ observation ] .",
    "it can be seen that with the same longitudinal separation between the magnetic footpoint of observer and solar sources , the number of the solar proton events originating from sources located on the eastern side of the observer s magnetic footpoint is larger than the number of the solar proton events from sources located on the western side @xcite .    .",
    "with the same longitudinal distance between the observer s magnetic footpoint and solar sources , the number of the sep events originating from sources located on the eastern ( left ) side of the observer s footpoint is larger than the number of the sep events from sources located on the western ( right ) side . ]    generally , a sep event which starts with a long delay at the observer is more possibly related to a cme - driven shock .",
    "so we further collect 66 sep events from table [ table : events ] by excluding the events with a delay of more than 24 hours with respect to the flare maximum .",
    "we also statistically investigate the number percentage distribution of these 66 sep events along the relative longitude @xmath16 .",
    "figure [ observation-66 ] shows the statistical results .",
    "we also pay attention to the central longitude range of the visible side of the sun .",
    "as we can see , the number percentage of the sep events on the left side is generally larger than that on the right side , similar to the results in figure [ observation ] .",
    "as noted above , most of the high - energy seps ( associated with either flares or cme - driven shocks ) are probably produced near the sun .",
    "after the seps are released on or near the sun , they will transport in the interplanetary magnetic field with turbulence . during the transport processes in the heliosphere ,",
    "the parallel diffusion and perpendicular diffusion play a very important role in the sep distribution and anisotropy .",
    "therefore , we note that even for cme - associated sep events , the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of sep distribution , due to the effects of perpendicular diffusion , will hold . in this sense , it is not very necessary to particularly discriminate between the two types of sep sources , i.e. , solar flares and cme - driven shocks .",
    "actually , the traditional classification paradigm of the so - called impulsive and gradual sep events is increasingly challenged by the current multi - spacecraft observations ( stereo - a / b , ace , soho , wind , etc . ) and the numerical modeling of three - dimensional focused transport of seps .",
    "our previous numerical simulations of sep transport with the effect of perpendicular diffusion demonstrated that there exists an east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry both in the entire intensities and in the peak intensities of seps transporting in the interplanetary space ( see * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "as pointed out by these works , the longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution of seps results from the east - west azimuthal asymmetry in the geometry of the parker interplanetary magnetic field as well as the effects of perpendicular diffusion on the transport processes of seps in the heliosphere .",
    "the formation mechanism of the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of sep distribution via perpendicular diffusion is sketched in figure [ illustration - he ] , which is referred to the physical scenario of  multiple sep events with one spacecraft \" .",
    "the sep transport in the interplanetary magnetic field mainly includes the parallel diffusion and the perpendicular diffusion . due to the effect of the perpendicular diffusion",
    ", the seps released from acceleration regions with limited coverage can cross the interplanetary magnetic field lines and transport to distant heliospheric locations with very wide longitudinal or / and latitudinal separations . in figure [ illustration - he ] , the intensity of seps ( detected at spacecraft s position @xmath23 ) originating from solar source a ( as an example ) located on the eastern side of the observer footpoint is nearly equivalent to the sep intensity at position @xmath24 , in a statistical sense .",
    "similarly , the intensity of seps ( detected at spacecraft s position @xmath23 ) released from solar source b ( with the same longitudinal separation as source a relative to the observer footpoint ) located on the western side is nearly equivalent to the sep intensity at position @xmath25 , in a statistical sense .",
    "as one can see , the heliocentric radial distance @xmath26 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath24 is shorter than that @xmath27 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath25 .",
    "note that the extent of the length difference between the heliocentric radial distances @xmath26 and @xmath27 depends on the longitudinal separation between the sources and the observer s footpoint .",
    "specifically , a larger longitudinal separation leads to a more significant length difference between the radial distances of the east and west equivalent positions ( e.g. , @xmath24 and @xmath25 in figure [ illustration - he ] ) .    )",
    "originating from solar source a ( b ) located on the eastern ( western ) side of the observer footpoint is nearly equivalent to the sep intensity at position @xmath24 ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "the heliocentric radial distance @xmath26 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath24 is shorter than that @xmath27 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath25 . ]",
    "observational analysis showed that the peak intensities of seps decrease with the heliocentric radial distance ( r ) in a functional form of @xmath28 , with @xmath29 varying in a wide range .",
    "basically , our numerical modeling of the five - dimensional fokker - planck transport equation has confirmed these observational results . in this paper , we present a numerical modeling result in figure [ imax - radial ] regarding radial dependence of intensity - time profiles and peak intensities of seps observed along the nominal parker magnetic field line connecting the spacecraft with the solar source .",
    "the upper panel of figure [ imax - radial ] presents the intensity - time profiles of @xmath30 mev protons observed at different heliocentric radial distances : @xmath31 , @xmath32 , @xmath33 , @xmath34 , and @xmath35 au .",
    "both the solar source and the observers are located at @xmath1 colatitude in this typical case study .",
    "as one can see , during the entire evolution process , the particle intensity observed at a smaller radial distance is higher than the particle intensity detected at a larger radial distance .",
    "in addition , we can obviously see that during the late phase , the intensity - time profiles of all the sep cases display nearly the same decay rate , which is known as the sep reservoir phenomenon in spacecraft observations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . therefore , our simulations of a series of sep cases with different radial distances reproduce the so - called sep reservoir phenomenon .",
    "actually , our numerical simulations with perpendicular diffusion reproduced various sep reservoirs at different heliospheric locations ( longitude , latitude , and radial distance ) without invoking the prevailing hypothesis of a reflecting boundary ( magnetic mirror ) or diffusion barrier ( solar wind structure ) ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". additionally , so far no any explicit observational evidence or quantitative description of reflecting boundaries ( magnetic mirrors ) or diffusion barriers ( solar wind structures ) , which were once prevalently supposed to exist in the heliosphere to contain the particles long enough to form the observed sep reservoirs , has been provided or specified within the community ( for discussions , see * ? ? ?",
    "actually , as @xcite and @xcite pointed out , it is difficult to imagine such an  overwhelming \" reflecting boundary ( magnetic mirror ) or diffusion barrier ( solar wind structure ) covering all of the longitudes , all of the latitudes , and even all of the radial distances , and even exactly accompanying almost all of the sep events including the so - called impulsive or @xmath36he - rich events . therefore , in the sense of perpendicular diffusion , we suggest that the so - called sep  reservoir \" should be renamed sep  flood \" , which is more appropriate to illustrate the transport processes of seps in the heliosphere .    in the upper panel of figure [ imax - radial ] ,",
    "the filled circles with different colors on the intensity - time profiles denote the peak intensities of the corresponding sep cases .",
    "we extract the information of the peak intensities and the relevant radial distances in the sep cases , and present it in the lower panel of figure [ imax - radial ] .",
    "we further model the radial dependence of the peak intensities @xmath37 with a power - law function @xmath38 , where @xmath39 is a constant in this case study .",
    "we obtain the power - law index @xmath40 in this series of sep cases .",
    "we note that the index @xmath29 mainly depends on the properties ( e.g. , coverage , location ) of sep sources and the relative locations of magnetic field line footpoints of the observers . from the lower panel of figure [ imax - radial ] , we can clearly see that the peak particle intensities of sep events exponentially decrease with the increasing radial distances .",
    "mev protons observed at different radial distances : @xmath31 , @xmath32 , @xmath33 , @xmath34 , and @xmath35 au .",
    "both the solar source and the observers are located at @xmath1 colatitude .",
    "note that the so - called sep reservoir phenomenon is reproduced in the simulations of a series of sep cases with different radial distances .",
    "lower panel : the radial dependence of the sep peak intensities extracted from the intensity - time profiles shown in the upper panel .",
    "a functional form of @xmath38 with index @xmath40 is obtained . ]",
    "according to the relationship @xmath41 sketched in figure [ illustration - he ] and the radial dependence of sep peak intensities @xmath38 with , e.g. , @xmath40 in this work , we can readily deduce that the peak intensity observed at position @xmath24 is larger than that observed at position @xmath25 . actually as shown in the upper panel of figure [ imax - radial ] ,",
    "the sep intensity detected at position @xmath24 is larger than that detected at position @xmath25 through the whole evolution process .",
    "we also note that these results are valid for arbitrary energies of energetic particles and for arbitrary particle species including electrons and heavy ions .",
    "therefore , the particle fluence and radiation dose received at position @xmath24 are , respectively , higher than those received at position @xmath25 . then according to the intensity equivalence relationship discussed above between @xmath24 and @xmath23 ( observing seps from source a ) as well as that between @xmath25 and @xmath23 ( observing seps from source b )",
    ", we can infer that the entire intensity , peak intensity , particle fluence , and radiation dose originating from source a are , respectively , larger than those originating from source b. we note that these conclusions hold for arbitrary couple of solar sources located on the eastern and western sides of the observer s magnetic footpoint , respectively , but with the same longitudinal separation relative to the observer s magnetic footpoint",
    ".    in typical cases of interplanetary conditions , the perpendicular diffusion coefficient should be smaller than the parallel diffusion coefficient , as performed in our previous numerical modeling , although the effect of perpendicular diffusion always plays a very important role in the transport and distribution of seps .",
    "therefore , we note that the longitudinal separation between the source region and the magnetic footpoint of the observer is the most crucial factor in determining the longitudinal variation of the entire intensity and the peak intensity of seps , indicating that the farther the magnetic footpoint of the observer is away from the solar source , the smaller the sep intensity will be observed by the spacecraft and also the later the sep event onset will be detected .",
    "the probability of an sep event being detected by spacecraft in the interplanetary space is related to the sep intensity in the event and the detection threshold of the instruments onboard the spacecraft .",
    "in addition , note that the criterion of an event being recorded in the spe listing of noaa is that the flux of the event being larger than or equal to 10 pfu .",
    "therefore , the spacecraft detection threshold and spe listing criterion naturally play a role in the historical records of sep events affecting the earth environment .",
    "our previous simulations showed that with the same longitudinal separations between the solar sources and the magnetic footpoint of the observer , the sep events originating from solar sources on the eastern side of the magnetic footpoint of the observer reveal larger fluxes than those from solar sources on the western side @xcite .",
    "therefore , the sep events from solar sources on the eastern ( western ) side of observer s magnetic footpoint will have a larger ( smaller ) probability of being detected and recorded by spacecraft near the earth s orbit .",
    "when a large data set of sep events is taken into account , it is natural and expectable to obtain the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry ( figures [ observation ] and [ observation-66 ] ) .",
    "as discussed above , the detection threshold and listing criterion naturally play a role in the statistical results of the east - west longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution of sep events .",
    "we point out that no matter what the detection threshold ( e.g. , particle flux , particle energy , particle species , etc . ) or listing criterion is , the result of the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of sep events will hold , provided that a relatively large data set is taken into account .",
    "we emphasize that our numerical simulations of five - dimensional transport equation and statistical analysis of sep events confirm each other .",
    "furthermore , the combination of statistical survey and numerical modeling regarding the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry presents a unique evidence for the effects of perpendicular diffusion on the sep propagation in the heliosphere .",
    "in a recent work @xcite , the authors also presented a statistical survey of the longitudinal distribution of sep peak intensities observed by twin spacecraft stereo - a / b and near - earth spacecraft ace .",
    "a similar investigation of sep peak intensities can be found in @xcite , where the sep intensity asymmetry was also presented .",
    "essentially , their results , obtained in a  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" style , are consistent with and confirm our numerical modeling and observational results . in this section ,",
    "we discuss the relationship between our results and those of @xcite .",
    "( @xmath42 ) .",
    "the heliocentric radial distance @xmath43 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath44 is smaller than that @xmath45 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath42 . ]",
    "figure [ illustration - dresing ] sketches the physical scenario of the multi - spacecraft observations of seps originating from a common particle source ( e.g. , source @xmath46 ) on the solar surface .",
    "the three spacecraft ( marked with c , @xmath23 , and d , respectively , from east to west ) are located at heliospheric positions with the same heliocentric radial distance but with different heliolongitudes .",
    "specifically , the spacecraft @xmath23 in the middle is directly connected to the solar source @xmath46 by the interplanetary magnetic field line , whereas the magnetic footpoints of the spacecraft c on the left and spacecraft d on the right are located on the eastern side and western side , respectively , with the same longitudinal separation , relative to the solar source @xmath46 . after being released from the solar surface",
    ", the energetic particles will transport diffusively in turbulent interplanetary magnetic field , consisting of parallel diffusion along and perpendicular diffusion across the mean magnetic field . due to the effects of perpendicular diffusion",
    ", the energetic particles released from a solar source ( e.g. , source @xmath46 ) with limited coverage can be detected by multiple spacecraft with wide longitudinal or / and latitudinal separations between every couple of them .",
    "the sep intensity observed by spacecraft d located on the western side is nearly equivalent to the sep intensity observed at position @xmath44 , in a statistical sense .",
    "likewise , the sep intensity detected by spacecraft c located on the eastern side is nearly equivalent to the sep intensity detected at position @xmath42 , in a statistical sense .",
    "as we can see , the heliocentric radial distance @xmath43 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath44 is smaller than that @xmath45 between solar center ( o ) and the position @xmath42 .",
    "note that the extent of the length difference between the radial distances @xmath45 and @xmath43 depends on the longitudinal separation between the source and the observer footpoints .",
    "a larger longitudinal separation leads to a more considerable length difference between the radial distances @xmath45 and @xmath43 . in combination with the numerical simulation result of the radial dependence of sep intensity - time profiles and sep peak intensities ( @xmath38 ) as shown in figure [ imax - radial ] and discussed above",
    ", we can readily infer that the sep intensity ( both entire intensity and peak intensity ) observed at position @xmath44 is larger than that observed at position @xmath42 . according to the intensity equivalence relationship between positions d and @xmath44 as well as that between positions c and @xmath42",
    ", we can infer that the sep intensity ( both entire intensity and peak intensity ) observed by the western spacecraft d is larger than that observed by the eastern spacecraft c. as a natural result of interplay between perpendicular diffusion and parallel diffusion , the observation location of the highest intensity - time profile and the largest peak intensity of seps will shift from the place of best magnetic connection and slightly toward the west of the associated sep source .",
    "we note that these results are valid for arbitrary energies of energetic particles and for arbitrary particle species including electrons and heavy ions",
    ".     labeled in blue ) and  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" ( source @xmath46 and spacecraft c and d labeled in red ) . the relative position between source a ( b ) and spacecraft @xmath23 is equivalent to the relative position between source @xmath46 and spacecraft d ( c ) . with this  spiral transformation trick \" ,",
    "the two physical scenarios are unified and identified with each other . ]",
    "figure [ spiral - transformation ] presents the relationship between our physical scenario and that of @xcite .",
    "the sep sources a and b and spacecraft @xmath23 labeled in blue indicate the ",
    "multiple sep events with one spacecraft \" scenario , and the sep source @xmath46 and spacecraft c and d labeled in red indicate the  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" scenario .",
    "we emphasize the importance of the concept of  relative position \" in understanding the physical relationship between our results and those of @xcite . as shown in figure [ spiral - transformation ] , the relative position between sep source a and spacecraft @xmath23 is equivalent to the relative position between source @xmath46 and spacecraft d ; the relative position between source b and spacecraft @xmath23 is equivalent to the relative position between source @xmath46 and spacecraft c. therefore , the intensity observed by spacecraft @xmath23 of seps originating from source a is equivalent to the intensity observed by spacecraft d of seps originating from source @xmath46 ; the intensity observed by spacecraft @xmath23 of seps originating from source b is equivalent to the intensity observed by spacecraft c of seps originating from source @xmath46 .",
    "accordingly , with the same longitudinal separation between the solar source and the magnetic footpoint of the observer , the following two results are essentially the same : ( 1 ) in the scenario of  multiple sep events with one spacecraft \" , the sep intensity originating from the solar source ( e.g. , source a in figure [ spiral - transformation ] ) located at the eastern side of observer footpoint is larger than the sep intensity originating from the source ( e.g. , source b ) located at the western side ; ( 2 ) in the scenario of  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" , the sep intensity observed by the spacecraft ( e.g. , spacecraft d ) located at the western side of the sep source is larger than the sep intensity detected by the spacecraft ( e.g. , spacecraft c ) located at the eastern side . by performing such ",
    "spiral transformation trick \" as shown in figure [ spiral - transformation ] , the two physical scenarios presented in our works @xcite and in @xcite are essentially unified and identified with each other .",
    "mev protons observed by spacecraft located at the eastern ( western ) side of the solar source .",
    "the red dotted line on the right is mirrored from the left .",
    "it can be clearly seen that the sep peak intensities observed by spacecraft located at the western side of the sep source are systematically larger than those observed by spacecraft located at the eastern side .",
    "in addition , the location of the largest sep peak intensity slightly shifts to the west of the sep source . ]    as an example , figure [ ew-10mev ] presents the multidimensional numerical modeling result of the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of seps in the scenario of  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" . for more details on the numerical model and numerical method of the five - dimensional fokker - planck focused transport equation ,",
    "we refer the reader to our simulation works ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in this work , we only present figure [ ew-10mev ] to demonstrate the relationship between our results and those of @xcite .",
    "the red solid line on the left - hand half in figure [ ew-10mev ] indicates the peak intensities of @xmath47 mev protons observed by a series of spacecraft located at the eastern side of the nominal magnetic field line connecting the solar source . on the right - hand half of figure [ ew-10mev ]",
    ", the blue solid line indicates the peak intensities of @xmath47 mev protons detected by a series of spacecraft located at the western side of the nominal field line connecting the sep source . for direct comparison between the two halves",
    ", we further mirror the sep peak intensities from the left - hand half to the right - hand half with a red dotted line . after this operation",
    ", we can clearly see that the sep peak intensities observed by spacecraft located at the western side of the sep source are systematically larger than those observed by spacecraft located at the eastern side . according to the discussions above and our numerical simulations , actually , during the entire evolution process , the sep intensity observed at the western side is larger than that observed at the eastern side , provided that the magnetic footpoints of the pair of observers located at the western and eastern sides , respectively , are with the same longitudinal separation relative to the sep source .",
    "in addition , due to the interplay between perpendicular diffusion and parallel diffusion , the longitudinal location at which the largest sep peak intensity is observed slightly shifts to somewhere on the western side of the sep source .",
    "basically , the accurate extent of west - shift depends on the ratio of perpendicular to parallel diffusion coefficients , geometry of the parker magnetic spiral ( corresponding to solar wind speed ) , particle energy and species , coverage of the sep sources , and particle spatial distribution in the sources .",
    "@xcite reported that with the same longitudinal separation between magnetic footpoint of observer and sep sources , the seps produced from the sources located east are detected earlier with higher fluxes than those associated with the sources located west ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "our statistical survey of solar proton events showed that with the same longitudinal separation between the observer s magnetic footpoint and the sep sources , the number of sep events associated with the sources located on the eastern side of the observer s magnetic footpoint is larger than the number of the sep events originating from the sources located on the western side .",
    "generally , the probability of a solar proton event being observed by spacecraft in the interplanetary space depends on the sep intensity in the event as well as the instrumental sensitivity threshold of the spacecraft .",
    "therefore , our statistical analysis of sep events accumulated over 16 years and our numerical simulations of the five - dimensional fokker - planck transport equation modeling taking into account perpendicular diffusion confirm each other .",
    "we further point out that the statistical results of solar proton events accumulated over a long time period provide an observational evidence for the effects of perpendicular diffusion on the sep propagation in the interplanetary space .",
    "we discuss in detail the effects of perpendicular diffusion on the formation of the east - west longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution of seps .",
    "the role of perpendicular diffusion in the physical scenarios of both  multiple sep events with one spacecraft \" and  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" is thoroughly demonstrated .",
    "we obtain the radial dependence of sep peak intensities @xmath0 from numerically modeling the five - dimensional fokker - planck focused transport equation .",
    "we employ this functional relation ( @xmath0 ) to quantitatively illustrate and explain the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of sep distribution in the heliosphere . the inherent relationship between our results @xcite and those of @xcite",
    "is comprehensively discussed . in the context of perpendicular diffusion ,",
    "our results and those of @xcite are essentially unified and identified with each other .",
    "we note that the sep phenomenon of longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution (  east - west azimuthal asymmetry \" ) can not be decently explained by any other hypothetical mechanisms including the so - called reflecting boundary ( magnetic mirror ) and diffusion barrier ( solar wind structure ) .    in this work",
    ", we primarily discuss the sep scenario in the ecliptic plane .",
    "it should be noted that the results and the conclusions presented above essentially hold for arbitrary heliospheric latitudes . as a special and unique sep phenomenon",
    ", the east - west longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution of seps represents the important effects of the perpendicular diffusion processes ( which was usually ignored in previous studies , especially in the observational community ) and of the large - scale parker spiral geometry of the interplanetary magnetic field .",
    "in addition , we note that the east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry of sep distribution is a universal phenomenon independent of particle energy , particle species , particle origin ( on or near the sun or in the interplanetary space ) , and observer s location ( latitude , longitude , and radial distance ) in the heliosphere .",
    "therefore , our results presented in this work will be valuable for understanding the sun - earth relations and especially for understanding the three - dimensional propagation of seps in the heliosphere .",
    "this work was supported in part by the national natural science foundation of china under grants 41204130 , 41474154 , 41321003 , and 41131066 , the national important basic research project under grant 2011cb811405 , the chinese academy of sciences under grant kzzd - ew-01 - 2 , and the open research program from key laboratory of geospace environment , chinese academy of sciences .",
    "he gratefully acknowledges the partial support of the international postdoctoral exchange fellowship program of china under grant 20130023 , and the k. c. wong education foundation .",
    "we benefited from the solar proton events data provided by the space weather prediction center of noaa and the instrument teams of goes spacecraft .",
    "we thank the nasa / space physics data facility ( spdf)/cdaweb for providing the solar wind data of soho and ace .",
    "99 beeck , j. , & wibberenz , g. 1986 , , 311 , 437 beeck , j. , mason , g. m. , hamilton , d. c. , et al .",
    "1987 , , 322 , 1052 cliver , e. w. , & cane , h. v. 2002 , eos trans .",
    "agu , 83 , 61 dresing , n. , gmez - herrero , r. , heber , b. , et al .",
    "2014 , , 567 , a27 dresing , n. , gmez - herrero , r. , klassen , a. , heber , b. , kartavykh , y. , & drge , w. 2012 , , 281 , 281 drge , w. , kartavykh , y. y. , dresing , n. , heber , b. , & klassen , a. 2014 , , 119 , 6074 drge , w. , kartavykh , y. y. , klecker , b. , & kovaltsov , g. a. 2010 , , 709 , 912 effenberger , f. , fichtner , h. , scherer , k. , et al .",
    "2012 , , 750 , 108 giacalone , j. , & jokipii , j. r. 2012 , , 751 , l33 hasselmann , k. , & wibberenz , g. 1968 , z. geophys . , 34 , 353 hasselmann , k. , & wibberenz , g. 1970 , , 162 , 1049 he , h .- q . , qin , g. , & zhang , m. 2011 , , 734 , 74 he , h .- q . , & wan , w. 2013 , proc . icrc ( brazil ) , paper 0267 , arxiv:1502.03090 he , h .- q . , & wan , w. 2015 , , 218 , 17 he , h .- q .",
    "2015 , , 814 , 157 jokipii , j. r. 1966 , , 146 , 480 kelly , j. , dalla , s. , & laitinen , t. 2012 , , 750 , 47 lario , d. , aran , a. , gmez - herrero , r. , et al .",
    "2013 , , 767 , 41 parker , e. n. 1958 , , 128 , 664 roelof , e. c. , gold , r. e. , simnett , g. m. , tappin , s. j. , armstrong , t. p. , & lanzerotti , l. j. 1992 , , 19 , 1243 shalchi , a. 2005 , , 363 , 107 strauss , r. d. , & fichtner , h. 2015 , , 801 , 29 veselovsky , i. s. , panasyuk , m. i. , avdyushin , s. i. , et al . 2004 , cosmic research , 42 , 435 zhang , m. , qin , g. , & rassoul , h. 2009 , , 692 , 109 zhao , x. , feng , x. , & wu , c .- c . 2007 , , 112 , a06107",
    "we list here the solar proton events analyzed in this study .",
    "see table [ table : events ] for details ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a large data set of 78 solar proton events observed near the earth s orbit during 1996 - 2011 is investigated . </S>",
    "<S> an east - west longitudinal ( azimuthal ) asymmetry is found to exist in the distribution of flare sources of solar proton events . with the same longitudinal separation between the flare sources and the magnetic field line footpoint of observer , </S>",
    "<S> the number of the solar proton events originating from solar sources located on the eastern side of the nominal magnetic footpoint of observer is larger than the number of the solar proton events from solar sources located on the western side . </S>",
    "<S> we emphasize the importance of this statistical investigation in two aspects . on the one hand </S>",
    "<S> , this statistical finding confirms our previous simulation results obtained by numerically solving five - dimensional fokker - planck equation of solar energetic particle ( sep ) transport . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> the east - west longitudinally ( azimuthally ) asymmetric distribution of solar proton events accumulated over a long time period provides an observational evidence for the effects of perpendicular diffusion on the sep propagation in the heliosphere . </S>",
    "<S> we further point out that , in the sense of perpendicular diffusion , our numerical simulations and statistical results of sep events confirm each other . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss in detail the important effects of perpendicular diffusion on the formation of the east - west azimuthal ( longitudinal ) asymmetry of sep distribution in two physical scenarios , i.e. ,  multiple sep events with one spacecraft \" and  one sep event with multiple spacecraft \" . a functional relation @xmath0 quantifying the radial dependence of sep peak intensities is obtained and utilized in the analysis of physical mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> the relationship between our results and those of dresing et al . is also discussed .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    diffusion  turbulence  </S>",
    "<S> cosmic rays  sun : particle emission </S>"
  ]
}