{
  "article_text": [
    "human epithelial type 2 cells processed by indirect immunofluorescence protocol is the standard method of identifying antinuclear autoantibodies ( ana ) , and consequently detecting autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , rheumatoid arthritis , multiple sclerosis and diabetes  @xcite .",
    "however , current methods require at least one expert to visually analyze the distributions of antibodies across multiple images .",
    "usually this analysis is performed through a microscope and is comprised of three steps  @xcite : i ) detection of at least one mitotic cell , ii ) evaluation of the fluorescence signal intensity ( negative in the absence of fluorescence , else intermediate or positive ) , iii ) determining the cells classification according to the auto - antibody type distribution .",
    "these multi - steps manual analyses are tedious , time consuming , subjective and have high inter-/intra - observer variability  @xcite ( up to @xmath0 , as reported in  @xcite ) .",
    "moreover , the increasing number of patients and the limited number of experts make this impractical to scale to a large number of clinics .",
    "therefore , a stable and effective automatic computer - aided diagnosis ( cad ) system is needed .",
    "+ hopefully , cell classification is now a well - established task  @xcite , as the advent of high - throughput imaging techniques has introduced the need for a robust system to automatically analyze thousands of cell images  @xcite .",
    "typically , most classification systems consist of two cascaded modules ",
    "one module that extracts useful features from a cell or a group of cells , followed by a second module that classifies the cells or the group using the extracted features .",
    "unfortunately , the range of images qualities as well as the classes to predict ( see fig .",
    "[ figure_cells0 ] ,  [ figure_cells1 ] and  [ figure_cells2 ] ) makes cell classification a particularly complicated task .",
    "+ in this paper , we address these imaging issues by introducing new texture features extraction methods .",
    "these methods are robust to quality variations ( particularly noise ) , and able to efficiently describe a wide variety of classes .",
    "this was accomplished by introducing fuzzy logic before the filling of statistical matrices . in order to demonstrate that our work can be used for different cytology purposes , we use three datasets composed of iff images , which contain different image qualities as well as classes to predict . +",
    "before delving into the paper , we first describe the three representative tasks from quantitative image - based cell biology . next we outline a typical cell classification system ( section [ section_classification ] ) , and present a review of the different statistical matrices ( section [ section_statisticalmatrices ] ) .",
    "then we present our work : a fuzzy generalization of existing statistical matrices ( section [ subsection_previousfuzzy ] ) , as well as the fuzzy zone definition and computation ( section [ subsection_fuzzyzones ] ) .",
    "finally , the proposed matrices are evaluated on three tasks for classifying cells and their structures ( section  [ section_results ] ) . +",
    "* icpr 2012 hep-2 cells classification contest - * this widely used dataset  @xcite is composed of @xmath1 cells manually segmented from @xmath2 iff images , and annotated by experts .",
    "each image contains many cells ( min @xmath3 , max @xmath4 , with average dimensions about @xmath5 pixels ) of a unique type , which can be one of the six imbalanced classes ( see fig .",
    "[ figure_cells0 ] ) : centromere ( ce ) , uniform discrete speckles located throughout the entire nucleus ; homogeneous ( ho ) , diffuse staining in the entire nucleus ; coarse speckles ( cs ) , densely distributed , variously sized speckles , generally associated with larger speckles ; fine speckles ( fs ) , fine speckled staining in an uniform distribution , sometimes very dense and almost homogeneous ; nucleolar ( nu ) , less than six large coarse speckled staining within the nucleus ; cytoplasmic ( cy ) , fine dense granular to homogeneous staining or cloudy pattern , covering part or the whole cytoplasm .    [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]      + @xmath6 & @xmath7 & @xmath8    all the fuzzy zones can be characterized and used to fill a szm ( or a rlm ) : for an image @xmath9 and a fuzzy zone @xmath10 , the size @xmath11 is computed and the matrix case @xmath12 is increased by @xmath13 . the fuzzy zones computation allows to introduce the fuzziness at the image level instead of the matrix filling level .",
    "such a new fuzzy szm and rlm are annotated _ fuzzyszm _ and _ fuzzyrlm _ respectivily .",
    "it is no longer required to reduce the gray levels number , and therefore the matrix s height is equal to the image gray levels number .",
    "the algorithm required to find the fuzzy zones has a non linear complexity that depends on the fuzzy parameter @xmath14 , and consequently the fuzzyszm / fuzzyrlm filling is much more time consuming ( by at least a factor of @xmath15 ) than a classical szm / rlm . +",
    "this fuzzy version using fuzzy zones fills a matrix with a fixed height equal to the gray levels number in the image .",
    "therefore , the multiple gray levels principle described at the end of section [ section_statisticalmatrices ] no longer makes sense .",
    "however , the fuzzyszm required a fixed fuzzy parameter , so a multiple fuzzy szm can be created : the same matrix is filled using different fuzzy parameters .",
    "this section presents the results obtained from the three different datasets introduced in section  [ sec_intro ] .",
    "all the classic statistical matrices are used with two gray level reduction algorithms ( linear and histogram ) , six quantizations ( dyadic values from @xmath16 to @xmath17 ) , and our new fuzzy statistical matrices were tested with a linear membership function and for different fuzzy parameters . for each method , only the best result is reported .",
    "the blue numbers indicate that the fuzzy version improves the corresponding basic algorithm ( com , rlm , szm ) performances , and the red number points out the optimal performance for each class .",
    "+ in this section , the two classifiers used are : 1 ) a neural network of type perceptron , with one hidden layer containing @xmath18 neurons ( best configuration experimentally found ) , trained with back - propagation , using individual adaptive learning rates and double momentums  @xcite ; 2 ) random forests with @xmath15 times more trees than features . each classifier",
    "is then validated using leave - one - out or k - fold cross validation .",
    "+ in section  [ subsection_previousfuzzy ] , we presented frlm and fszm , extensions of rlm and szm according to the com fuzzy principle described in  @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , among the three datasets used in this paper , frlm and fszm never improve rlm and szm performances .",
    "moreover , fcom slightly improved the com performances only once , with a @xmath19 gap for the class nucleolar into the icip 2013 contest dataset , using the random forests .",
    "consequently , fcom , frlm and fszm results are not presented in this section , because of lack of efficacy .",
    "the highly reliable and widely used leave - one - out cross - validation was performed over all @xmath2 images . as each image contains only one type of cell , two different results levels were reported : at the cell level the results try to predict each cell class , and at the image level the results try to predict the most frequently assigned cell class within that image .",
    "a six - classes classifier was built using a neural network ( lower results were obtained with random forests , and then were not reported ) , where the results are displayed in tables  [ table_resultsicpr2012comp ] and  [ table_resultsicpr2012 ] .",
    "the fuzzy versions results were compared with those obtained from the original versions , and with many methods from the state - of - the - art ( table [ table_resultsicpr2012comp ] ) .",
    "these methods used different features ( such as local binary patterns , morphological , statistical , fisher tensors , moments , etc . ) and classifiers ( mainly support vector machines , but neural networks and random forests as well ) .",
    "contrary to our fuzzy matrices that provide around @xmath20 features , all these methods use a huge number of features and often require a features selection .",
    "but the results show that few highly relevant features can outperform other methods using a large number of features , which demonstrates the efficacy of our fuzzy versions .    in the table",
    "[ table_resultsicpr2012 ] , the fuzzy versions provide high prediction rates for each class .",
    "the methods produce efficient features describing each class without any ambiguity . this result",
    "is confirmed at the image level in the table  [ table_resultsicpr2012comp ] , where we can observe that our classification is highly accurate .",
    "moreover , the regular versions ( rlm and szm ) provide comparable results as  @xcite , but the fuzzy versions outperform for most of the classes at the cell level and the image level . from the same tables , we can confirm that the prediction rates for the cytoplasmatic and nucleolar classes are higher than other classes .",
    "this is due to these classes having typical textures different from the others : cytoplasmic cells are highly heterogeneous with a dark nucleus , and the nucleolar cells have big homogeneous bright patterns .",
    "consequently , they appear atypical and easier to classify . for the same reasons ,",
    "the fine speckled class has among the lowest predictions rates , because slightly speckled cells may appear homogeneous and more speckled cells may appear coarse speckled .",
    "the table  [ table_resultsicip ] shows the results on the icip @xmath21 contest dataset , which contains highly noisy images .",
    "we can observe that the fuzzy versions using the fuzzy zones significantly improve the performances for most classes . indeed",
    ", the fuzzyrlm systematically surpasses the rlm , and the fuzzyszm surpasses the szm for @xmath22 of cases , at both cell and image levels .",
    "moreover , excepting only one case , the best result is provided by the fuzzy version .",
    "the tables [ table_resultsrf_hpa ] and [ table_resultsmlp_hpa ] present results obtained on the hpa dataset , which contains high quality ( staining , illumination , contrast , etc . ) images .",
    "the results are less dramatic , because the fuzzyrlm does not improve performances in most cases .",
    "however the fuzzyszm still performs as well as szm if not better .",
    "this paper presents different versions of fuzzy statistical matrices .",
    "the first version is a generalization of an existing technique , and introduces the fuzzification at the matrix filling level by spreading the information .",
    "the results presented in section [ section_results ] show that this method never improved the results for the three datasets used in this paper . even if this method was introduced to reduce noise sensitivity , the results are lower than the classical algorithm .",
    "+ next we define the original fuzzy zone , which is not flat but has fuzzy values .",
    "the fuzzy zones are used to fill statistical matrices , and then to create fuzzy statistical matrices .",
    "these new matrices are powerful descriptors , particularly effective at characterizing highly noisy images .",
    "the efficiency is particularly significant for the fuzzy run length matrix , which systematically outperforms the regular run length matrix performances , on both noisy datasets and using different classification methods .",
    "moreover , the fuzzy size zone matrix using fuzzy zones also provides good characteristics on high quality images . in order to validate the results",
    ", we performed a comparison with the best methods from the state - of - the - art , which provide comparable results with the regular matrices , but are outperformed by the new fuzzy versions .",
    "+ as a result this paper demonstrates that the new fuzzy version using fuzzy zones generates reliable and effective fuzzy statistical matrices , and provides better results than the original fuzzy version .",
    "moreover , the new fuzzy statistical matrices systematically provide better results than the widely used co - occurrences matrix",
    ". therefore our methods can be used to improve the characterization of images , for example medical imaging and the delicate issue of describing cancerous cells  @xcite or tumors  @xcite .",
    "+ the classic statistical matrices and the new fuzzy statistical matrices use different gray level reduction algorithms and quantizations .",
    "unfortunately , no fine - tuning method exists to automatically determine the optimal configuration .",
    "moreover , the experiments perform in this paper have shown that the performances greatly vary according to the dataset : no gray level reduction algorithm or quantization has proven to be more likely to provide better results .",
    "consequently , it is necessary to test a maximum of configurations in order to find the best results .",
    "this work was funded by nsf award 1027834 . any opinions , findings , conclusions or recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the authors and do not reflect the views of the nsf .",
    "karl egerer , dirk roggenbuck , rico hiemann , max - georg weyer , thomas bttner , boris radau , rosemarie krause , barbara lehmann , eugen feist , and gerd - rdiger burmester . automated evaluation of autoantibodies on human epithelial-2 cells as an approach to standardize cell - based immunofluorescence tests .",
    ", 12(r40 ) , 2010 .        santa  di cataldo , andrea bottino , ihtesham  ul islam , tiago  figueiredo vieira , and elisa ficarra .",
    "subclass discriminant analysis of morphological and textural features for hep-2 staining pattern classification .",
    ", 47:23892399 , 2014 .",
    "rico hiemanna , thomas bttnerb , thorsten kriegerc , dirk roggenbuckb , ulrich sackd , and karsten conrad .",
    "challenges of automated screening and differentiation of non - organ specific autoantibodies on hep-2 cells . , 9(1):1722 ,",
    "september 2009 .",
    "nicola bizzaro , renato tozzoli , elio tonutti , anna piazza , fabio manoni , anna ghirardello , danila bassetti , danilo villalta , marco pradella , and paolo rizzotti .",
    "variability between methods to determine ana , anti - dsdna and anti - ena autoantibodies : a collaborative study with the biomedical industry .",
    ", 219(12):99107 , october 1998 .",
    "anne  e. carpenter , thouis  r. jones , michael  r. lamprecht , colin clarke , in  h. kang , ola friman , david  a. guertin , joo  h. chang , robert  a. lindquist , jason moffat , polina golland , and david  m. sabatini .",
    "cellprofiler : image analysis software for identifying and quantifying cell phenotypes .",
    ", 7:r100 , 2006 .",
    "p.  perner , h.  perner , and b.  mller .",
    "texture classification based on random sets and its application to hep-2 cells . in _",
    "ieee international conference on image processing ( icip ) _ , volume  2 , pages 406411 , 2002 .",
    "yan yang , arnold wiliem , azadeh alavi , brian  c. lovell , and peter hobson . visual learning and classification",
    "of human epithelial type 2 cell images through spontaneous activity patterns . , 47:23252337 , 2014 .",
    "mathias uhlen , per oksvold , linn fagerberg , emma lundberg , kalle jonasson , mattias forsberg , martin zwahlen , caroline kampf , kenneth wester , sophia hober , henrik wernerus , lisa bjrling , and fredrik ponten . towards a knowledge - based human protein atlas .",
    ", 28:12481250 , 2010 .",
    "jieyue li , justin  y. newberg , mathias uhln , emma lundberg , and robert  f. murphy .",
    "automated analysis and reannotation of subcellular locations in confocal images from the human protein atlas . , 7(11 ) ,",
    "november 2012 .",
    "xu - ying liu , jianxin wu , and zhi - hua zhou .",
    "exploratory under - sampling for class - imbalance learning . in _",
    "ieee international conference on data mining _ , pages 965969 , washington , dc , usa , december 2006 .",
    "ieee computer society .",
    "simon marcellin , djamel - abdelkader zighed , and gilbert ritschard .",
    "an asymmetric entropy measure for decision trees . in _ information processing and management of uncertainty in knowledge - based systems ( ipmu ) _ , pages 12921299 , 2006 .",
    "jun wang , xiaobo zhou , pamela  l. bradley , shih - fu chang , norbert perrimon , and steffen  t.c . wong .",
    "cellular phenotype recognition for high - content rnai genome - wide screening .",
    ", 13(1):2939 , january 2008 .",
    "larry  s. davis , m.  clearman , and j.k .",
    "aggarwal . a comparative texture classification study based on generalized cooccurrence matrices . in _",
    "ieee conference on decision and control _ , miami fl , december 1979 .",
    "h.  schulerud , jens  michael carstensen , and h.e .",
    "multiresolution texture analysis of four classes of mice liver cells using different cell cluster representations . in _",
    "the 9th scandinavian conference on image analysis _ , pages 121129 , uppsala , sweden , 1995 .",
    "guillaume thibault , bernard fertil , claire navarro , sandrine pereira , pierre cau , nicolas levy , jean sequeira , and jean - luc mari .",
    "texture indexes and gray level size zone matrix .",
    "application to cell nuclei classification . in _",
    "pattern recognition and information processing ( prip ) _ ,",
    "pages 140145 , minsk , belarus , may 2009 .",
    "guillaume thibault , bernard fertil , claire navarro , sandrine pereira , pierre cau , nicolas levy , jean sequeira , and jean - luc mari .",
    "shape and texture indexes : application to cell nuclei classification . , 27(1 ) , 2013 .",
    "guillaume thibault , jesus angulo , and fernand meyer .",
    "advanced statistical matrices for texture characterization : application to dna chromatin and microtubule network classification . in _",
    "ieee international conference on image processing ( icip ) _ , pages 5356 , september 2011 .",
    "plagianakos , g.d .",
    "magoulas , and m.n .",
    "vrahatis . learning rate adaptation in stochastic gradient descent . in pardalos",
    "( eds . ) , editor , _ advances in convex analysis and global optimisation _ , pages 433444 .",
    "kluwer academic publishers , 2001 .",
    "santa  di cataldo , andrea bottino , ihtesham  ul islam , tiago  figueiredo vieira , and elisa ficarra .",
    "subclass discriminant analysis of morphological and textural features for hep-2 staining pattern classification .",
    ", 47:23892399 , 2014 .",
    "yan yang , arnold wiliem , azadeh alavi , brian  c. lovell , and peter hobson .",
    "visual learning and classification of human epithelial type 2 cell images through spontaneous activity patterns . , 47:23252337 , 2014 .",
    "tomoharu kiyuna , akira saito , elizabeth kerr , and wendy bickmore .",
    "characterization of chromatin texture by contour complexity for cancer cell classification . in _",
    "ieee international conference on bioinformatics and bioengineering _ , pages 16 , october 2008 .",
    "lothar haberle , florian wagner , peter  a. fasching , sebastian  m. jud , katharina heusinger , christian  r. loehberg , alexander hein , christian  m. bayer , carolin  c. hack , michael  p. lux , katja binder , matthias elter , christian munzenmayer , rudiger schulz - wendtland , martina meier - meitinger , boris  r. adamietz , michael uder , matthias  w. beckmann , and thomas wittenbberg . characterizing mammographic images by using generic texture features .",
    ", 14(1):347358 , 2012 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we generalize image ( texture ) statistical descriptors and propose algorithms that improve their efficacy . recently , </S>",
    "<S> a new method showed how the popular co - occurrence matrix ( com ) can be modified into a fuzzy version ( fcom ) which is more effective and robust to noise . here </S>",
    "<S> , we introduce new fuzzy versions of two additional higher order statistical matrices : the run length matrix ( rlm ) and the size zone matrix ( szm ) . </S>",
    "<S> we define the fuzzy zones and propose an efficient algorithm to compute the descriptors . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate the advantage of the proposed improvements over several state - of - the - art methods on three tasks from quantitative cell biology : analyzing and classifying human epithelial type 2 ( hep-2 ) cells using indirect immunofluorescence protocol ( iff ) .    </S>",
    "<S> cell texture characterization and classification , structural statistical matrices , gray level size zone matrix ( szm ) , fuzzy statistical matrices , quantitative cytology . </S>"
  ]
}