{
  "article_text": [
    "obliquity ( a scalar ) or spin vector is a fundamental property of all celestial bodies . in the solar system ,",
    "spin vectors directly influence the efficiency in which the yarkovsky and yorp effects ( i.e. thermal radiation forces and torques ) change the orbital and rotational properties of minor planets @xcite .",
    "the yarkovsky effect plays a key role in the dynamical transport of small asteroids from the main belt into the near - earth population @xcite .",
    "the yorp effect directly influences rotation state and is frequently invoked to explain the formation of binary and multiple asteroid systems through rotational fission or mass shedding @xcite .",
    "furthermore , spin states are a direct consequence of asteroid - asteroid impacts and thus trace collisional environments across dynamical populations @xcite .    despite the importance of spin vectors ,",
    "only a few hundred out of three quarters of a million known asteroids have constrained pole orientations .",
    "this is a direct consequence of the many years or even decades required to constrain spin vectors through astrometric or photometric observations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "analyses across shorter temporal baselines often suffer from retrograde - prograde degeneracies .",
    "doppler delay radar imaging can determine shape and pole solutions , but requires sufficient sky motion during the observing window and is limited to the closest near - earth and largest main belt asteroids @xcite .",
    "here we focus on an alternate technique for constraining spin orientation , namely by monitoring thermal emission as a function of solar phase angle .",
    "this technique does not solve for the obliquity or specific spin vector , but can constrain retrograde versus prograde spin orientation . measuring thermal emission from a body at multiple viewing geometries on either side of opposition can reveal differences in local morning versus afternoon temperature distributions across the surface of an asteroid ( figure [ fig.cartoon ] ) .",
    "the rotational sense of the body directly influences the local time and temperature distribution on the asteroid surface as perceived from earth , particularly when observing at geometries of high phase angle .",
    "this afternoon - morning temperature dichotomy can observationally manifest as a difference in thermal emission . for the case depicted in figure [ fig.cartoon ] , preferential viewing of the `` cold '' hemisphere before opposition and the `` warm '' hemisphere afterwards",
    "would be reversed if this object were in retrograde rotation .",
    "therefore , variations in thermal flux on either side of opposition can serve to constrain pole orientation .",
    "thermal observations across a range of phase angles is a standard method for determining asteroid thermal inertia @xcite .    , signed relative to opposition ) are indicated for each of our observations .",
    "the asteroid cartoons are shaded to indicate illumination ( black = nighttime hemisphere ) and surface temperate distribution for a body with finite thermal inertia ( blue = cold , red = hot ) .",
    "the predicted prograde rotation of the asteroid @xcite is indicated by the black arrows .",
    "the cartoons of the asteroid at maximal phase angles ( @xmath1 and @xmath2 ) are larger to emphasize the preferential viewing of cooler morning temperatures prior to opposition and warmer afternoon temperatures post - opposition .",
    "note the phase angle actually decreased after the june 15 observation .",
    "earth image credit : nasa / gsfc .",
    ", width=566 ]    [ lastfig ]    this technique , originally described @xcite and pioneered in the 1970 s , has not been widely used to constrain pole orientation , but has seen some success . @xcite confirmed that the near - earth asteroid 433 eros is in a prograde rotation state based on enhanced 10- and 20-@xmath3 thermal emission prior to opposition , consistent with preferential viewing of local afternoon . even though eros pole only points 11@xmath4 above the ecliptic @xcite its moderate orbital inclination ( 10.8@xmath4 ) and",
    "observations by @xcite at moderate to high solar phase angles ( -41@xmath4 , -24@xmath4 , and + 42@xmath4 ) ensured that the afternoon and morning sides of eros were preferentially viewed prior to and after opposition respectively . @xcite and @xcite extended this technique to several large main belt asteroids .",
    "they were able to correctly predict prograde rotation for 1 ceres @xcite , 4 vesta @xcite and 19 fortuna @xcite , and a retrograde state for 10 hygeia @xcite .",
    "however they did not correctly predict the retrograde rotation of 2 pallas @xcite .",
    "there are likely several reasons for this .",
    "first , the prediction for pallas was tenuous anyways due to it having the fewest observations of the objects under investigation .",
    "second , the standard thermal model used to derive physical properties ( including pole orientation ) assumed non - rotating spherical bodies .",
    "third , the range of accessible phase angles for objects in the main belt is limited relative to near - earth objects .",
    "finally , the possibility of low surface thermal inertia for large ( @xmath5 km ) asteroids ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) acts to dampen morning - afternoon temperature gradients . in light of these issues , it is impressive that these early investigations resulted in meaningful constraints on the rotation states of any of the targeted asteroids . since these initial studies , the use of a morning - afternoon temperature dichotomy to inform pole orientation has only been discussed and applied in a few cases ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "note that this method is not sensitive to objects with poles aligned near to the line of sight , nor does it provide a measure of the object obliquity , instead it simply provides a means to constrain a prograde versus retrograde spin state .",
    "traditionally , the measurement of asteroid thermal emission and subsequent modeling of physical properties has relied on mid - infrared ( 3 - 25 @xmath3 ) photometry .",
    "an asteroid thermo - physical model called sherman has been developed for application to airless bodies of arbitrary shape and has primarily been applied to ( though is not restricted to ) observations at wavelengths between 2.5 - 4.0 @xmath0 m @xcite .",
    "however , low albedo ( @xmath6 ) asteroids at small heliocentric distances ( @xmath7 au ) have high enough surface temperatures that the wien tail of their thermal emission profiles can be detected at near - infrared wavelengths ( 0.8 - 2.5 @xmath0 m ) . at such short wavelengths",
    "the measured signal is a combination of solar reflectance and thermal emission .",
    "this thermal excess or thermal tail can be modeled to retrieve surface temperature and albedo @xcite .",
    "however , models of this excess from normalized reflectance spectra are not directly sensitive to diameter because such data are not flux calibrated .    here",
    "we present case studies of the near - earth asteroids ( 285263 ) 1998 qe2 ( @xmath8 ) and ( 175706 ) 1996 fg3 ( @xmath9 ) based on observations during apparitions favorable to the detection of phase - dependent thermal variability .",
    "this analysis represents the first systematic study of thermal variability in the near - ir k - band as a function of phase angle .",
    "both 1998 qe2 and 1996 fg3 have low geometric albedos of about 3% and 4% respectively @xcite , and thus display significant thermal emission in the near - infrared when they are at heliocentric distances of @xmath10 au .",
    "we present near - infrared spectra of 1998 qe2 taken between may and july of 2013 and of 1996 fg3 taken during apparitions in 2009 and 2011 ( tables [ tab.qe2obs ] and [ tab.fg3obs ] ) . all data analyzed here were obtained with spex at nasa s infrared telescope facility , which was configured in its low resolution ( r @xmath11 100 ) prism mode with a 0.8 \" slit @xcite .",
    "all observations were conducted with the telescope operating in a standard abba nod pattern .",
    "commonly - used solar analogs @xcite were observed to correct for telluric absorption and to remove the solar contribution from the measured reflectance .",
    "reduction protocols followed @xcite and @xcite .",
    "a second explanation for the mismatch between our data and the retrograde models is the unlikely possibility that fg3 is actually in a prograde state .",
    "the analysis of light curve photometry strongly suggests that fg3 s satellite is in a retrograde orbit @xcite and the satellite seems to be tidally locked @xcite .",
    "attempts to model the spin pole of the primary have most recently been inconclusive @xcite , but previous analyses suggest a retrograde state @xcite . while a retrograde satellite orbit and a prograde primary spin state seem unlikely from the perspective of binary formation models involving yorp spin - up and mass loss ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the current ambiguity in the interpretation of the lightcurve data leaves this as an open possibility .",
    "future observations to unambiguously determine the primary spin state would directly test this scenario .",
    "interestingly , the linear fits to our fg3 data are significantly different for each of the two epochs of observation ( table [ tab.eta ] ) .",
    "furthermore , the reflectance spectra of fg3 are distinctly different in each of the two epochs ( figure [ fig.fg3spec ] ) .",
    "perhaps the most interesting comparison to highlight these differences is between the 2009 april 27 and 2011 december 1 data .",
    "these data clearly fall into the categories of neutral slope , low thermal emission in 2009 , and red slope , high thermal emission in 2011 .",
    "however the heliocentric distance of fg3 was almost identical on these two dates .",
    "the primary difference between these observations is viewing geometry : the solar phase angles are essentially @xmath13 on either side of opposition ( table [ tab.fg3obs ] ) and the sub - earth latitudes on the surface of the body were at their maximum separation amongst the data considered here ( fig . [ fig.fg3therm ] ) .",
    "this raises a third and ultimately testable interpretation of the fg3 results . as shown in the bottom panel of figure [ fig.fg3therm ]",
    "the two epochs corresponded to two different viewing aspects : in 2009 the asteroid was at negative ecliptic latitude and thus observations preferentially viewed its northern hemisphere , whereas in 2011 the asteroid was at positive ecliptic latitude and thus observations preferentially accessed its southern hemisphere .",
    "the variability in optical and thermal properties could thus be suggestive of a heterogeneous surface .",
    "top - shaped \" morphology of fg3 with its pronounced equatorial ridge @xcite could serve to isolate the optical and thermal influence of the northern and southern hemispheres and thus accentuate surface heterogeneity even though the difference in viewing aspect was only @xmath14 across the two epochs .",
    "if the surface of fg3 is heterogeneous , then we predict that the northern hemisphere would have optically neutral reflectance properties and a higher relative albedo , which would lower surface temperature and yield higher @xmath12 .",
    "conversely , the southern hemisphere would have optically red reflectance properties and a lower relative albedo , which would result in a higher relative surface temperature and correspondingly lower @xmath12 .",
    "fg3 will be a strong optical target in 2022 and will be at negative ecliptic latitudes , thus providing a vantage of its northern hemisphere .",
    "additional long term monitoring of this object may ultimately determine whether its measured variability is due to a heterogeneous surface @xcite or some other physical effect @xcite .",
    "spectral heterogeneity is not commonly seen on asteroids , particularly for km - scale objects like fg3 , however near - ir observations of the 500-meter near - earth object 101955 bennu indicate variations in spectral slope that may be related to differences in regolith grain size across the surface @xcite .    in light of the uncertainty surrounding our fg3",
    "results it remains unclear whether physical properties like thermal inertia and pole orientation can be robustly derived from neatm modeling of thermal emission in k - band .",
    "the highly non - uniform distribution of nea obliquity , specifically a preference toward purely retrograde states @xcite , would suggest that this technique should be well suited to detection of aspect - dependent thermal variability in the nea population .",
    "following on the work of @xcite , new models to quantify the detectability of thermal asymmetry as a function of obliquity would provide new insight into the feasibility of such observational studies .",
    "additionally , a larger sample size is needed to definitively determine whether neatm modeling at near - ir wavelengths can robustly retrieve physical properties like pole orientation and thermal inertia .",
    "it is clear that any future near - ir - based study of thermal inertia and pole orientation would require targets that span the widest possible range of phase angles on either side of opposition . on any given night , approximately 20% of observable neas ( @xmath15 , solar elongation @xmath16 , galactic latitude @xmath17 ) are at phase angles greater than @xmath18 .",
    "some of this uncertainty could be resolved by extending such phase dependent measurements to longer wavelengths , for instance photometry at l- and m - bands ( 3.5 and 4.5 @xmath0 m respectively ) or in the n- and q - bands ( @xmath19 and 20 @xmath0 m respectively ) which are closer to the thermal emission peaks typical of neos . however",
    ", a systematic comparison of neatm results based on data in different wavelength regimes is needed to more completely understand the limitations of this model .",
    "extending measurements to longer wavelengths would have a primary benefit of enabling detection and modeling of thermal emission for any nea , not just low albedo objects like qe2 and fg3 .",
    "a targeted spectro - photometric survey to monitor phase - dependent thermal emission from select neas could produce an unprecedented sample of spin vector orientations .",
    "such a sample would provide directs tests for models of nea source regions in the main belt that depend on spin orientation and the subsequent direction of semi - major axis drift due to the yarkovsky effect ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we are grateful to eric volquardsen for use of his neatm thermal model code .",
    "this manuscript was significantly improved thanks to insightful reviews from michael mueller , al harris , and an anonymous referee .",
    "this work includes data obtained at nasa s irtf located on mauna kea in hawaii , which is operated by the university of hawaii under contract nnh14ck55b with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "support for this project was provided through the national science foundation astronomy and astrophysics postdoctoral fellowship awarded to n.a.m and by nasa grant number nnx14an82 g issued through the near - earth object observations program .",
    "f.e.d . acknowledges support by the national science foundation under grant 0907766 and by nasa under grant nnx12al26 g and through hubble fellowship grant hst - hf-51319.01-a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 . d.p .",
    "is thankful to the axa research fund for support through their postdoctoral fellowship . e.s.h .",
    ", r.j.v . , abd y.r.f .",
    "acknowledge partial support from national science foundation grant ast-1109855 .",
    "benner , l.  a.  m. and 9 co - authors , 2012 .",
    "arecibo and goldstone radar observations of binary near - earth asteroid and marco polo - r mission target ( 175706 ) 1996 fg3 .",
    "american astronomical society , dps meeting # 44 , abstract 102.06 .",
    "binzel , r.  p. , harris , a.  w. , bus , s.  j. , and burbine , t.  h. , 2001 .",
    "spectral properties of near - earth objects : palomar and irtf results for 48 objects including spacecraft targets ( 9969 ) braille and ( 10302 ) 1989 ml .",
    "icarus 151 , 139 - 149 .",
    "binzel , r.  p. , polishook , d. , demeo , f.  e. , emery , j.  p. , rivkin , a.  s. , 2012 .",
    "marco polo - r target asteroid ( 175706 ) 1996 fg3 : possible evidence for an annual thermal wave .",
    "lunar planet .",
    "abstract 1659 .",
    "bottke , w.  f. , morbidelli , a. , jedicke , r. , petit , j.  m. , levison , h.  f. , michel , p. , metcalfe , t. , 2002 .",
    "debiased orbital and absolute magnitude distribution of near - earth objects .",
    "icarus 156 , 399 - 433 .",
    "delbo , m. , mueller , m. , emery , j.  p. , rozitis , b.  e. and capria , m.  t. , 2015 . asteroid thermophysical modeling . in : michel , p. , demeo , f.  e. , bottke , w.  f. ( eds . ) , asteroids iv .",
    "arizona press , tucson , pp .",
    "107 - 128 .",
    "harris , a.  w. , mueller , m. , delbo , m. , and bus , s.  j. , 2007 .",
    "physical characterization of the potentially hazardous high - albedo asteroid ( 33342 ) 1998 wt24 from thermal - infrared observations .",
    "icarus 188 , 414 - 424 .",
    "hicks , m. , lawrence , k. , chesley , s. , chesley , j. , rhoades , h. , elberhar , s. , carcione , a. , borlase , r. , 2013 .",
    "palomar spectroscopy of near - earth asteroids 137199 ( 1999 kx4 ) , 152756 ( 1999 jv3 ) , 163249 ( 2002 gt ) , 163364 ( 2002 od20 ) , and 285263 ( 1998 qe2 ) .",
    "the astronomer s telegram 5132 , 1 .",
    "mueller , m. , harris , a.  w. , bus , s.  j. , hora , j.  l. , kassis , m. , and adams , j.  d. , 2006 .",
    "the size and albedo of rosetta fly - by target 21 lutetia from new irtf measurements and thermal modeling .",
    "a&a 447 , 1153 .",
    "ostro , s.  j. , hudson , r.  s. , benner , l.  a.  m. , giorgini , j.  d. , magri , c. , margot , j.  l. , nolan , m.  c. , 2002 . asteroid radar astronomy . in : bottke , w.  f. , cellino , a. , paolicchi , p. , binzel , r.  p. ( eds . ) ,",
    "asteroids iii . univ .",
    "arizona press , tucson , pp .",
    "151 - 168 .",
    "paolicchi , p. , burns , j.  a. , and weidenschilling , s.  j. , 2002 .",
    "side effects of collisions : spin rate changes , tumbling rotation states , and binary asteroids . in : bottke , w.  f. , cellino , a. , paolicchi , p. , binzel , r.  p. ( eds . ) , asteroids iii .",
    "arizona press , tucson , pp .",
    "517 - 526 .",
    "polishook , d. , binzel , r.  p. , lockhart , m. , demeo , f.  e. , golisch , w. , bus , s.  j. , and gulbis , a.  a.  s. , 2012 .",
    "spectral and spin measurement of two small and fast - rotating near - earth asteroids .",
    "icarus 221 , 1187 - 1189 .",
    "vokrouhlicky , d. , bottke , w.  f , chesley , s.  r. , scheeres , d.  j. and statler , t.  s. , 2015 .",
    "the yarkovsky and yorp effects . in : michel , p. , demeo , f.  e. , bottke , w.  f. ( eds . ) , asteroids iv .",
    "arizona press , tucson , pp .",
    "509 - 532 .",
    "wolters , s.  d. , and green , s.  f. , 2009 .",
    "investigation of systematic bias in radiometric diameter determination of near - earth asteroids : the night emission simulated thermal model ( nestm ) .",
    "mnras 400 , 204 - 218 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> here we explore a technique for constraining physical properties of near - earth asteroids ( neas ) based on variability in thermal emission as a function of viewing aspect . </S>",
    "<S> we present case studies of the low albedo , near - earth asteroids ( 285263 ) 1998 qe2 and ( 175706 ) 1996 fg3 . </S>",
    "<S> the near - earth asteroid thermal model ( neatm ) is used to fit signatures of thermal emission in near - infrared ( 0.8 - 2.5 @xmath0 m ) spectral data . </S>",
    "<S> this analysis represents a systematic study of thermal variability in the near - ir _ as a function of phase angle_. the observations of qe2 imply that carefully timed observations from multiple viewing geometries can be used to constrain physical properties like retrograde versus prograde pole orientation and thermal inertia . </S>",
    "<S> the fg3 results are more ambiguous with detected thermal variability possibly due to systematic issues with neatm , an unexpected prograde rotation state , or a surface that is spectrally and thermally heterogenous . </S>",
    "<S> this study highlights the potential diagnostic importance of high phase angle thermal measurements on both sides of opposition . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the neatm thermal beaming parameters derived from our near - ir data tend to be of order 10 s of percent higher than parameters from ensemble analyses of longer wavelength data sets . </S>",
    "<S> however , a systematic comparison of neatm applied to data in different wavelength regimes is needed to understand whether this offset is simply a reflection of small number statistics or an intrinsic limitation of neatm when applied to near - ir data . with the small sample presented here , </S>",
    "<S> it remains unclear whether neatm modeling at near - ir wavelengths can robustly determine physical properties like pole orientation and thermal inertia .    </S>",
    "<S> copyright   2016 nicholas a. moskovitz    number of pages : + number of tables : [ lasttable ] + number of figures : [ lastfig ] +    nea thermal emission +   + * please send editorial correspondence to : * + nicholas a. moskovitz + lowell observatory + 1400 west mars hill road + flagstaff , az 86001 , usa . +   + email : nmosko@lowell.edu + phone : ( 928 ) 779 - 5468 +    asteroids , spectroscopy , infrared observations </S>"
  ]
}