{
  "article_text": [
    "testing simulation codes for correct implementation and a sufficiently accurate representation of reality is an important task .",
    "our purpose is to make this task easier for codes that simulate collisionless plasmas and hopefully lead to more widespread validation activity . to this end",
    ", we propose a test problem that can be used for benchmarking of different simulation codes , as well as validation with respect to analytic solutions of the pdes describing the system .",
    "this paper describes the setup , analysis and parameters in all the details that are necessary for an independent replication and comparison with other codes . to make the test as accessible and useful as possible",
    ", we choose parameters that allow for simulations with many different methods while minimizing the computational effort . to the latter end ,",
    "the proposed test does not rely on more than one spatially resolved dimension . while invariance under exchange of axis can be tested ( and to some degree isotropy of wave propagation ) , it is expedient to complement this set of test problems with other tests that directly check for effects of two or three spatial dimensions .    the test case proposed here uses plasma wave modes in a homogeneous plasma .",
    "no complicated setup or boundary conditions are necessary and the corresponding theory is well established and widely available . from a numerical side , however , wave modes are an interesting test as the properties of the wave are determined by the interaction of the particles in the plasma with the electromagnetic fields . consequently , a large part of the simulation code is covered by this integration test , verifying both the internal consistency of the code and the correct interaction of the different modules .",
    "some classes of problems in the code lead to characteristic deviations in the simulation results . with sufficient experience",
    ", they can be tracked back to the responsible part of the code , but the process can be difficult and time consuming .",
    "the test is therefore not meant to replace unit tests that check individual functions , but to complement them .",
    "the design of the test is such that the numerical effort is low enough that it can be run before any checking into a source control system to guard against regressions .",
    "this paper is of course not the first test case that is available to the simulation community .",
    "probably the most widely used benchmark for comparisons between plasma simulation codes is the gem reconnection challenge @xcite .",
    "this setup has been simulated by magneto - hydro - dynamic ( mhd ) , hall mhd , hybrid codes using kinetic ions and an electron fluid with or without inertia , and particle - in - cell ( pic ) codes .",
    "comparison between different codes has led to a better understanding of the relevance of physical effects that are represented to various degrees in different simulation methods . beyond that , it is a standard test case that is often used to measure the performance of new codes . for the simulation of fusion devices , there is benchmarking and comparison efforts such as @xcite that simulate properties of fusion plasmas such as the turbulence that is driven by the thermal gradient between the core and the edge of these plasmas .",
    "the goal is to improve the reliability of predictions based on simulations through the cross - comparison of simulation codes .",
    "to validate a numerical code it is necessary to have a well specified mathematical model of the system that the code is supposed to simulate .",
    "the basic equations of each model are given here to clarify the nomenclature used for the following discussion and to avoid any possible confusion about the model and to avoid conflicts of notation .",
    "a more detailed explanation of the physical meaning and implication of the equations can be found in standard textbooks such as @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the equations are given in terms of the ( particle ) velocity @xmath0 instead of the momentum @xmath1 , which is only appropriate in the non - relativistic limit .",
    "for plasma temperatures and wave intensities discussed here this is , however , sufficient .    for a collisionless plasma ,",
    "the mathematical model is given by the vlasov equation @xcite .",
    "this is an evolution equation for the phase space density @xmath2 of one particle species @xmath3 as a function of position @xmath4 and velocity @xmath0 : @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the total force acting on @xmath7 .    from the distribution function",
    ", we can also compute the source terms for the electromagnetic fields by integrating over the velocity components of the phase space .",
    "this leads to the ( net ) charge density @xmath8 and current density @xmath9 :    @xmath10    the reaction of the particles with charge @xmath11 to the fields is given by the lorentz force ( @xcite ) . in gaussian cgs units the electric field @xmath12 and the magnetic field @xmath13 exert the force    @xmath14    to close the set of equations , we need the evolution equations for the fields .",
    "these are given by maxwell s equations or some approximation thereof , depending on the plasma model .",
    "they are discussed in the following subsections .",
    "the electromagnetic plasma model uses the full set of maxwell s equations @xcite : @xmath15 eqs .",
    "[ eqn : maxwell_gaussian ] to [ eqn : maxwell_gaussian_last ] formally involve the electric displacement @xmath16 and magnetic intensity @xmath17 . in vacuum",
    " without material effects",
    " these can be replaced by the electric field @xmath12 and magnetic induction @xmath13 as the permittivity and permeability of free space @xmath18 and @xmath19 are set to unity in the units used . without source terms , these equations have wavelike solutions that describe electromagnetic radiation . in a plasma",
    "this is also the case , but the wave is modified due to the interaction between particles and fields . whenever the interaction of electromagnetic radiation ( e.g. radio waves or laser pulses ) with a plasma is of interest , the full vlasov - maxwell - system is the model of choice .",
    "however , the high propagation speed of these waves lead to a very restrictive limit on the permissible time step in explicit codes ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "therefore it is often convenient to couple the vlasov equation to approximations of maxwell s equations that do not allow for the existence of light waves .",
    "there are several different ways to derive the radiation - free approximation to maxwell s equations .",
    "it can be seen as the correct approximation up to order @xmath20 .",
    "alternatively , one can approach it through a helmholtz decomposition of the electric field and the current , split into a longitudinal curl - free part and a transverse divergence - free part .",
    "the displacement current , given by time derivative of the transverse electric field , is removed from ampre s law which removes light waves .",
    "@xcite showed that either way leads to the set of equations :    @xmath21    this approximation to maxwell s equations is also known as darwin approximation @xcite or as magnetoinductive model as the production of magnetic fields from currents is retained .",
    "only the effect of the transverse displacement current is removed .      for particle velocities much slower than the speed of light and without large scale currents , one can completely remove the transverse electric field . this way , one obtains the electrostatic model , where the magnetic field is constant in time and the longitudinal electric field is given by eq .  .",
    "for this plasma model , no current has to be calculated from the particle motion , as the charge density in each time step is sufficient to calculate the fields .",
    "the downside is of course that wave modes that require transverse fields are not present in this model .",
    "if kinetic effects of electrons are not important , it is possible to reduce the numerical effort by treating the electrons as a fluid .",
    "the electron momentum equation leads to a generalized ohm s law for the electric field : @xmath22 in this equation @xmath23 gives the flow speed of the electron fluid , @xmath24 its pressure and @xmath25 the resistivity .    combining this equation with faraday s law leads to an equation for the magnetic field , or rather for the generalized vorticity @xmath26 :    @xmath27    there are two regimes where this description is worth consideration .",
    "one is on electron scales , where ions can be considered immobile due to their large inertia and do not affect the dynamics of the system .",
    "this model is called electron magnetohydrodynamics ( emhd ) and is not considered in this paper .    here , we are interested in the ions and the behavior of the system on their timescales",
    ". then we can assume that the electrons are sufficiently mobile to neutralize their charge density nearly instantaneously .",
    "in this hybrid model of kinetic ions and fluid electrons we use @xmath28 at any instance .",
    "the total current that is determined by the magnetic field must then be carried either by the ions or the bulk flow of the electron fluid :    @xmath29    the current carried by the ions can be determined based on the marker particles and deposited onto the grid .",
    "inserting eq .   into eq .   removes the unknown flow speed of electrons and leads to an equation that can be solved for @xmath13 numerically .",
    "can of course be calculated as well and added to the output , to study the motion of the electron fluid . ]",
    "the hybrid model described so far contains effects due to finite electron inertia .",
    "most hybrid codes ignore this effect as the ion mass is much larger than the electron mass .",
    "the hybrid code here also allows to do so and the reference results for the test problems are provided with and without electron inertia .",
    "to find the well known small amplitude waves of a plasma model , it is necessary to linearize its governing equations .",
    "that means we assume that all quantities can be split into a static and homogeneous background part ( subscript @xmath30 ) and a small perturbation ( subscript @xmath31 ) . for physical reasons ,",
    "we assume that @xmath32 and @xmath33 and drop any term that contains two or more factors with subscript one , because we expect such contributions that are second order in the small perturbation to be negligible .",
    "furthermore we can , without loss of generality , align our coordinate system in such a way that the static and homogeneous background magnetic field @xmath34 is aligned with the @xmath35 axis and the propagation direction of the wave @xmath36 is in the @xmath37-@xmath35-plane .    even with those simplifications , it is hard to self - consistently solve the vlasov - maxwell - system . the canonical method by landau @xcite requires laplace transformations and residue calculus for integration in the complex plane .",
    "details can be found e.g. in @xcite .    for illustration , it suffices to analyze the electromagnetic case , neglecting any thermal effects and assuming that the perturbations are plane waves that can be written as ( possibly complex ) constants times @xmath38 . for this harmonic case , the first two maxwell s equations ( eqs .",
    "[ eqn : maxwell_gaussian]-[eqn : maxwell_gaussian_second ] ) reduce to :    @xmath39    assuming a linear response of the plasma to the electric field , we can write the current density @xmath9 as @xmath40 using the conductivity tensor @xmath41 . inserting this into ampere s law given by eq .  , leads to @xmath42 using the dielectric permittivity tensor @xmath43 : @xmath44    using faraday s law given in eq .  , we can substitute for the magnetic field and obtain :    @xmath45    the vector @xmath46 is a scaled version of the wave vector @xmath36 , which is dimensionless and its magnitude corresponds to the refractive index of the medium .    rewriting eq .",
    "once more we get @xmath47 where @xmath48 is the dielectric tensor . for this equation to have a nontrivial solution , the determinant of the 3x3 tensor has to vanish .    before going further ,",
    "it is useful to introduce three quantities for each species present in the plasma .",
    "these are the plasma frequencies @xmath49 , the gyro frequencies @xmath50 and the sign of the charge @xmath51 .",
    "they are given by    @xmath52    it is useful to introduce the usual stix parameters @xcite before discussing the different solutions of eq .",
    ":    @xmath53    using the stix parameters and the angle @xmath54 between the background magnetic field @xmath34 and the wave normal vector @xmath55 , the dielectric tensor in eq",
    ".   reads :    @xmath56    the dependence on @xmath57 is of course hidden in the index of refraction @xmath58 and all entries in the tensor @xmath48 are frequency dependent .",
    "each solution to eq .   connects both @xmath59 and @xmath36 in the form of a dispersion relation that is characteristic for the wave mode .",
    "the following test problems make use of a range of different wave modes .",
    "there are two reasons why no single wave mode is sufficient .",
    "the first is that different wave modes might use different parts of the simulation code . especially in the radiation free plasma model ,",
    "longitudinal and transverse fields are treated very differently and are best tested with two different wave modes .",
    "the other reason is that no single wave mode makes for a good test for every plasma model . to test an electromagnetic model ,",
    "the electromagnetic mode is computationally cheapest , but this mode is removed from all other plasma models . on the other hand , low frequency modes such as ion bernstein modes require very expensive simulations in an explicit electromagnetic code that are not practical .    tab .",
    "[ tab : test_matrix ] at the end lists which wave modes are suitable for each plasma model , allowing for a quick selection of the relevant description following below .      the first wave we want to consider is the electromagnetic wave .",
    "it does also exist as a solution to maxwell s equations in vacuum , where it has the trivial dispersion relation    @xmath60    to get the equivalent dispersion relation in a plasma , let us first consider the case without a background magnetic field . in that case , @xmath61 vanishes and @xmath62 , with the joint plasma frequency @xmath63 of all species given by :    @xmath64    this simplifies the maxwell tensor significantly and the resulting characteristic polynomial can be solved , yielding the following dispersion relation for the electromagnetic wave :    @xmath65    eq .",
    "indicates that this wave has a low frequency cutoff at the plasma frequency @xmath63 and extends to arbitrarily large frequencies . in numerical practice",
    ", there is a high frequency limit from the nyquist frequency that the grid imposes on the wavelength .",
    "the high frequency nature makes the electromagnetic mode very suitable for a quick check of a simulation code implementing the electromagnetic plasma model , as relatively few time steps are needed .",
    "the addition of a background magnetic field splits the electromagnetic mode into two modes . for parallel propagation ( @xmath66 )",
    "these are the l and r mode .",
    "their respective dispersion relations are :    @xmath67    the l mode is left hand circularly polarized , while the r mode right handed .",
    "this motivates their name and the name of the corresponding stix parameter .",
    "solving for @xmath68 is possible , but leads to rather long expressions .",
    "both modes behave very much like the electromagnetic mode but with a shifted cutoff .",
    "their cutoff frequencies are given by    @xmath69    in the limit of @xmath70 , the right hand side of eqs .",
    "- simplifies to @xmath71 .",
    "the l and r modes have a second branch at much lower frequencies , below the gyro frequencies of ions and electrons respectively .",
    "these exist even in radiation free plasma models and provide a suitable test problem for them .",
    "in this range of frequencies , that is especially relevant for emhd or hybrid simulations , the dispersion relation of the right hand circular mode can be found in e.g. @xcite or @xcite and is given by :    @xmath72    the product of electron skin depth @xmath73 and the wave number @xmath57 can be expected to be not too large . in the limit",
    "@xmath74 the wave frequency has the limiting value @xmath75 , however the wave is usually absorbed before that .    in a hybrid model without electron inertia the nature of the low frequency r mode changes . to derive the dispersion relation ,",
    "it is necessary to insert the definitions of gyro frequency @xmath76 and electron skin depth @xmath73 into eq . and",
    "take the limit @xmath77 .",
    "doing so leads to @xmath78 which is well defined even in the absence of electron inertia .",
    "however , at larger @xmath57 it lacks the cutoff at the electron gyro frequency , which is not well defined without electron mass .      in the case of perpendicular propagation ( i.e. @xmath79 )",
    ", we also find that the electromagnetic mode is split into a pair of modes .",
    "the mode where the electric field component is parallel to the background magnetic field behaves just as in the unmagnetized case .",
    "this is called the ordinary mode ( or in short o mode ) . the other mode , which only exists in the presence of a static magnetic field ,",
    "is called extraordinary mode ( or x mode ) .",
    "its electric field component is perpendicular to both @xmath57 and @xmath80 .",
    "the dispersion relation of this second mode is given by @xmath81 this mode has a cutoff at @xmath82 this frequency is close to the upper hybrid frequency which is given by @xmath83    depending on the magnetization , a second branch of the extraordinary mode close the plasma frequency exists .",
    "if it exists it has a lower cutoff frequency @xmath84      if we return to the case without a magnetic background field and reexamine the dielectric tensor as given in eq .",
    ", we notice that the characteristic polynomial has three solutions .",
    "two of them are identical and belong to the electromagnetic mode  discussed above  with two independent degrees of freedom ( either two linearly polarized modes or equivalently two circularly polarized modes ) .",
    "however , there exists a third solution to @xmath85 which satisfies @xmath86 .",
    "this describes plasma oscillations which  for a cold plasma  have constant frequency , vanishing group velocity and are purely electrostatic .    to get a wave mode with well defined propagation behavior and wavenumber dependence ,",
    "it is necessary to include the effects of a finite temperature in a warm plasma .",
    "this can be done for any wave mode but is tedious as the permittivity tensor needs to be redefined to include the distribution function . in the case of a maxwellian velocity distribution ,",
    "this is generally expressed using the plasma dispersion function @xmath87 ( see @xcite ) . solving the resulting equations to get the dispersion relations",
    "is complicated by the extra terms or might even be impossible to do analytically in the general case . for the test problems ,",
    "it is sufficient to proceed in a less rigorous manner with the langmuir mode . assuming an electron temperature @xmath88 , we can modify the dielectric permittivity tensor to include the leading term , resulting in :    @xmath89    solving for @xmath90 to get the dispersion relation , we end up with @xmath91 which of course for infinitely small @xmath57 is just @xmath92 and can be approximated , for not too large @xmath57 , by @xmath93    at this point , it is useful to introduce the debye length @xmath94 .",
    "this is the natural length scale below which the plasma might contain charge imbalances and electrostatic fields .",
    "the ( electron ) debye length is given by    @xmath95    using that we can rewrite the dispersion relation of the langmuir mode as    @xmath96    the second term in this formulation being the correction due to the finite temperature and debye length .",
    "this expression is reasonably accurate as long as the second term is less than unity , which fortunately is the case as langmuir waves of higher @xmath57 are quickly damped by electron landau damping ( see @xcite ) .",
    "this is a completely collisionless effect resulting from the interaction of the langmuir wave with kinetic electrons and as such is not applicable when electrons are described as a fluid .      for the final wave mode considered in this set of test problems",
    ", we again add a background magnetic field and have a look at the longitudinal modes that propagate perpendicular to the background field .",
    "these waves also exist only in a plasma of finite temperature , because only there the gyro radius is finite . for a particle of species",
    "@xmath3 the gyro radius @xmath97 is given by :    @xmath98    the original derivation of the dispersion relation can be found in @xcite and will not be repeated here . to write down the dispersion relation it is useful to rescale the wavenumber using the gyro radius as follows :    @xmath99    this quantity is non - zero in a warm plasma , corresponding to the presence of finite larmor radius effects",
    ". if @xmath100 is small this mostly leads to gyro resonances at integer multiples of the gyro frequencies .",
    "the situation gets complicated if we can not make this assumption . at least for the case of electrostatic waves propagating exactly perpendicular to the background magnetic field",
    ", we can find the dispersion relation e.g. in @xcite .",
    "using the different definition of thermal speed implicitly used in eq .   and rewriting in terms of quantities defined in this paper , we get :    @xmath101    this expression uses modified bessel functions @xmath102 of the first kind . for frequencies on the order of the electron gyro frequency and higher , the ions can be considered stationary and all terms connected to them can be dropped .",
    "the dispersion relation then simplifies and reads :    @xmath103    it is also possible to consider bernstein waves at lower frequencies . at ion length scales of @xmath104",
    "we find that @xmath105 .",
    "given that the bessel function of order @xmath106 vanish for small arguments , this implies that we can drop the electron terms when considering ion scales . in this limit",
    "eq .   can be approximated by :    @xmath107    the term containing electron quantities is not present in the same way for electron bernstein waves and represents a shielding effect from the electrons .    for high orders of @xmath58 the simplification of representing the electrons by a constant term",
    "gets increasingly wrong , especially if the mass ratio @xmath108 is not sufficiently large .",
    "however , as can be seen from the parameters in tab .",
    "[ tab : ion_bernstein ] , this is not a problem for the test case presented here .",
    "most of the simulations that were performed to produce the illustrations in this paper used the pic code acronym @xcite or extensions thereof .",
    "this simulation code is quite flexible and implements a wide range of plasma models .",
    "the simulation domain can be simulated with one , two or three spatially resolved dimensions ( fields and velocities are always represented by three component vectors ) and their boundaries can be periodic , reflecting or absorbing . for the test case , only one spatially resolved dimension and periodic boundary conditions",
    "are used to reduce numerical effort and implementation requirements .",
    "kinetic species are represented by macro particles .",
    "their charge and current density is deposited onto the grid using second - order interpolation with the triangular - shaped - cloud ( tsc ) shape function .",
    "the current is deposited based on the same shape function using @xmath109 for one - dimensional simulations or with the charge - conserving method of @xcite for two- and three - dimensional simulations .",
    "electrons in the plasma can be represented either in this way for fully kinetic simulations , or implicitly as a fluid with or without electron inertia , following the electron magneto - hydro - dynamic ( emhd ) solver of @xcite .      in electromagnetic simulations ,",
    "the electric and magnetic field is evolved from the homogeneous initial state using the finite - difference - time - domain ( fdtd ) method :    @xmath110    the field quantities are stored in a staggered grid following the idea by @xcite , which allows for a very straight - forward calculation of the curl that is accurate to second order .",
    "this field solver leads to a modification of the dispersion relation at large @xmath59 and @xmath57 . in the case of the electromagnetic mode propagating along one axis of the spatial grid ,",
    "the resulting dispersion relation is @xmath111 for frequencies that are not close to the respective nyquist limit , the modification is negligible .",
    "the numerical implementation of the radiation - free model is harder than eqs .",
    "- make believe at first .",
    "the reason is the fact that @xmath112 depends on the time derivative of the transverse component @xmath113 of the current .",
    "the change in current , however , is of course connected to the acceleration of the particles which in turn depends on the electric field . an overly naive time discretization is therefore violently unstable .",
    "our code follows the method of @xcite , which solves the problem in the following way .    in the first part of a time step ,",
    "the charge density @xmath8 is deposited onto the grid and eq .",
    "is solved with a fourier based solver to get @xmath114 .",
    "the new values of @xmath112 and @xmath13 are calculated using the following iterative scheme : first @xmath9 and @xmath115 are deposited onto the grid using the assumption that the particle velocities remain unchanged .",
    "once the current contributions are known , it is possible to solve for the field components . and",
    "as soon as all fields are known , a better prediction of the particle velocities can be made . using the better estimate for the particle velocities ,",
    "a better estimate of the current can be deposited onto the grid .",
    "this , in turn , allows for a refinement of the field components .",
    "the iteration scheme converges quickly , after two or three iterations . at this point ,",
    "the particle velocity can be updated based on the best current prediction for the new velocity and the code can proceed to the next time step .",
    "the electrostatic model uses a spectral solver to calculate the longitudinal electric field .",
    "this solver makes use of the fact that the charge density can be replaced by its fourier series @xmath116 in eq .  .",
    "the components of the electric field can be rewritten in the same way and the derivative can act directly on the exponential functions . as",
    "the different fourier modes are orthogonal , the resulting equation has to be satisfied for each mode separately , which leads to the following relation between the charge density and the electric field in the spectral domain :    @xmath117    this way , the electric field can be calculated by performing a fourier transform on @xmath8 , multiplying every component in @xmath57-space with @xmath118 , which can be considered a convolution with the green function of free space and transforming the resulting field back to real space .",
    "both the radiation - free model and the electrostatic model have a gap at @xmath119 in the spectrum of the electric field .",
    "this is an artifact of solving poisson s equation in the fourier domain .",
    "the only possible source term that would produce @xmath120 is @xmath121 .",
    "this quantity , however , is the net charge density which vanishes when averaging over the entire simulation domain that contains an equal number of positive and negative charged particles .",
    "we also used a second independent implementation of the electrostatic plasma models , which is not based on the pic method , but instead follows the vlasov - hybrid - simulation ( vhs ) method by @xcite .",
    "this method is not a hybrid between a kinetic and a fluid part , but a hybrid between an eulerian description of phase space density and a lagrangian description using macro particles . where a pic code represents chunks of phase space density as macro particles of constant weight and deposits their charge or current onto a grid , a vhs code reconstructs the phase space density on a grid .",
    "it then integrates out the velocity direction(s ) to obtain moments of the distribution function such as charge density .",
    "the reconstruction step requires extra effort but allows for the use of macro particles with significantly different weights without losing the effect of markers that represent low phase space density .",
    "this makes vhs a technique with a very low level of numerical noise .",
    "an open source implementation and a description of the code have been submitted for publication elsewhere .",
    "details of the hybrid code is decribed in @xcite . on a high level",
    "it computes the time evolution of the ions , just as a pic code would and determines the ions charge density @xmath122 and current density @xmath123 .",
    "using those the generalized vorticity can be updated as described in eq .  .",
    "after that , the magnetic field @xmath13 can be computed from a version of eq .  , where the electron flow speed has been eliminated using eq .  .",
    "then the electric field @xmath12 can be determined from the generalized ohm s law given in eq .  .",
    "to verify the analytically known plasma modes and to check for thermal effects that are neglected in their cold plasma description , we also used the whamp code ( see @xcite ) .",
    "this code does not evolve the full plasma model but starts with the linearization of the time - independent equations . assuming a parametrized velocity distribution function it uses analytic expressions to approximate the dielectric tensor of a warm multi - component plasma .",
    "the plasma dispersion function that is needed in that description is numerically approximated by a pad approximation and the resulting tensor is solved numerically using newton iteration .",
    "it is not easy to choose plasma parameters that are accessible to a large range of simulation codes and that produce results that can be compared in a meaningful manner .",
    "this can be seen , for example , in the case of the thermal speed of electrons . very small values  and consequently low temperatures  make the comparison with predictions for cool or cold plasmas easier .",
    "explicit pic codes , on the other hand , have small time steps that are set by the speed of light .",
    "if thermal particles move at a tiny fraction of the speed of light , they only move a tiny distance per time step and the code has to compute many time steps . as a compromise and to avoid relativistic effects , an electron thermal speed of five percent of the speed of light was chosen .",
    "all three initial velocity components of the electrons are drawn independently from a normal distribution with zero mean and standard deviation @xmath124 . using the relation @xmath125",
    ", we determine the equivalent temperature of 14.79 mk .",
    "the plasma contains protons ( single positive charge , natural mass ratio unless specifically noted otherwise ) as neutralizing ( ion ) species .",
    "the ion temperature @xmath126 is set equal to the electron temperature , therefore , their thermal speed is lower by a factor of @xmath127 .",
    "the absolute value of the plasma frequency has no such direct physical implications .",
    "however , it sets the debye length and thereby the size of the grid cells .",
    "a value of @xmath128 was chosen for the electrons , which corresponds to a density of @xmath129 particles per cubic centimeter .",
    "the protons have the same density to fulfill charge neutrality , which translates to a proton plasma frequency of @xmath130 rad / s .",
    "the contribution of the protons to the total plasma frequency is negligible .",
    "using this temperature and frequency scale , the debye length turns out to be 1.497  cm . to avoid grid heating and other numerical effects ,",
    "the cell size of each grid cell should be slightly smaller ( see e.g. @xcite ) , which suggests the round value of 1  cm .",
    "the only physical parameter that still needs to be specified is the magnetic field strength .",
    "here we select 2.843  mt which corresponds to a high density plasma with @xmath131 .",
    "[ tab : baseline_def ] lists all the defining parameters in compact form and tab .",
    "[ tab : baseline_res ] has some other derived plasma parameters .",
    ".common choice of simulation parameters to be used in all simulations unless noted otherwise .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , > \" , ]     tab .",
    "[ tab : test_matrix ] shows which wave modes are suitable to test codes implementing different plasma models .",
    "listed from left to right are the electromagnetic mode from sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : electromagnetic ] , left and right hand circular wave modes at or above the plasma frequency ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : hf_lr ] ) , the extraordinary mode ( sec .  [ subsec : test : extraordinary ] ) , the langmuir mode ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : langmuir ] ) , electron bernstein modes ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : electron_bernstein ] ) , low frequency waves with right hand circular polarization ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : lf_r ] ) , ion bernstein modes ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : ion_bernstein ] ) and low frequency left hand circular polarization ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : test : lf_l ] ) . listed on the left hand side",
    "are the different plasma models  from top to bottom  , the electromagnetic model ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : electromagnetic ] ) , the radiation - free model ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : darwin ] ) , the electrostatic model ( sec .",
    "[ subsec : electrostatic ] ) and the model using an implicit electron fluid  either with or without electron inertia  described in sec .",
    "[ subsec : hybrid ] .",
    "wave modes that provide suitable test problems for the chosen plasma model are indicated with x. if a - is listed , the wave mode is not present or usable in the plasma model . for two plasma models ,",
    "the low frequency left hand circularly polarized waves and the ion bernstein modes are marked with $ .",
    "these waves do exist in the electromagnetic and radiation - free plasma model and show the properties expected from cold plasma theory . in principle , these waves could be used to test the simulation code , e.g. by extracting the gyro frequency of ions or the alfvn velocity .",
    "simulations with sufficient resolution are , however , computationally very expensive . given that these plasma models admit a large number of alternative wave modes , it is better to choose an alternative test problem unless low frequency properties of the ions are explicitly needed . a special case ( indicated by .17ex ) , occurs for low frequency right hand circularly polarized waves in the hybrid model without electron inertia . as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : massless_lf_r ] , such a wave mode does exist , however , the dispersion relation is modified compared to all other plasma models used here .",
    "in particular the resonance at the electron gyro frequency is missing , as it has been ordered out of the model and can not be used for comparison purposes . using the modified dispersion relation in eq .",
    "[ eqn : disp_r_emhd_massless ] , it is possible to recover the combination of magnetic field and electron density . given the limited number of suitable wave modes in this hybrid plasma model , right hand circularly polarized waves are still an important test problem , but analysis requires extra attention , and direct comparison with other plasma models is difficult .",
    "we acknowledge the use of the acronym code and would like to thank the developers ( verein zur frderung kinetischer plasmasimulationen e.v . ) for their support .",
    "the implementation of the hybrid model is based on a combination with the emhd code of neeraj jain .",
    "the authors would like to thank him for all the work on the joint code and all the useful discussion on hybrid plasma models .",
    "p.m. acknowledges financial support by the max - planck - princeton center for plasma physics .",
    "this work is based upon research supported by the national research foundation and department of science and technology .",
    "any opinion , findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and therefore the nrf and dst do not accept any liability in regard thereto ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a large number of wave modes exist in a magnetized plasma . </S>",
    "<S> their properties are determined by the interaction of particles and waves . in a simulation code , </S>",
    "<S> the correct treatment of field quantities and particle behavior is essential to correctly reproduce the wave properties . </S>",
    "<S> consequently , plasma waves provide test problems that cover a large fraction of the simulation code .    </S>",
    "<S> the large number of possible wave modes and the freedom to choose parameters make the selection of test problems time consuming and comparison between different codes difficult . </S>",
    "<S> this paper therefore aims to provide a selection of test problems , based on different wave modes and with well defined parameter values , that is accessible to a large number of simulation codes to allow for easy benchmarking and cross validation .    </S>",
    "<S> example results are provided for a number of plasma models . for all plasma models and wave modes that are used in the test problems , </S>",
    "<S> a mathematical description is provided to clarify notation and avoid possible misunderstanding in naming .    </S>",
    "<S> verification ; plasma simulation ; kinetic theory </S>"
  ]
}