{
  "article_text": [
    "there are at least 800 different definitions of forest , some of them are used simultaneously in a same country for different purposes or scales @xcite .",
    "this is in part due to the fact that forest types differ widely , depending on factors such as latitude , climate patterns , soil properties and human interactions .",
    "it also depends on who is defining it , an economist might define a forest in a very different way from a forester or farmer , in correspondence with their particular focus and interests .",
    "one of the most widely used definition is that by fao ( 1998 ) which poses that a forest is land area of more than 0.5 ha , with a tree canopy cover of more than 10% , which is not primarily under agricultural or other specific non - forest land use . in the case of young forests or regions where tree growth is climatically suppressed",
    ", the trees should be capable of reaching a height of 5 m _ in situ _ , and of meeting the canopy cover requirement .    in general , forest definitions",
    "are based in two different perspectives .",
    "one , associated with quantitative cover / density variables such as minimum area cover , minimum tree height , minimum crown - cover percent , or minimum width . and the other , with some special spatial features of the territory such as the presence of plantations , agricultural activities or non - forest trees within the forest itself @xcite .",
    "the problem is that important ecosystem services as carbon sequestration may be lost when natural forests are severely degraded or replaced by plantations ; but technically it remains as forests under these definitions .",
    "in this paper we will focus on a feature missing in most forest definitions , its complexity .",
    "a system is complex when it presents a sufficiently large number of elements that have strong enough interactions and/or its configuration space changes fast enough ( in terms of the scales of the observer ) .",
    "morin has suggested @xcite that all systems are complex , as there are not stationary or non - interactive systems . and certainly forest and forest management occupies a very high place in the gradient of complexity .",
    "[ figcomplexdiag ]    already since the work of @xcite and later by @xcite , some components of forests complexity have been identified .",
    "the first aspect of complexity known as the alpha diversity , is the interaction complexity due to : ( a ) structure complexity that emerge from interactions going from the competition among trees of the same age and results in dominant , codominant , subordinate , and suppressed trees structure ; interaction among trees of different ages , as trees eventually get damaged , affected by pests or breakdown they interact in distinct ways depending on their health state ; interactions with the environment mainly due to the fact that variability in light , temperature , and soil moisture promotes structurally - diverse growth on the forest floor ; and interactions related to canopy stratification where trees of different ages and growth habits produce multiple layers of vegetation ; ( b ) species composition complexity , which comes mainly from habitat variability caused by patchy canopies that produce variability in light , temperature , and soil moisture ; leading to patches of different types in the understory .",
    "on the other hand we have the pre - interactive niche diversification that in general terms affects the expansion in forest structure as well as plant species composition ; and ( c ) functional complexity that emerges from the combined effect of structure and composition complexity , and is associated with high carrying capacities for diverse animals , high productivity for plants , effective regulation of nutrients and water cycling and ultimately defines the forest health and resilience capacity .    in second terms we have the complexity that arises from the evolution of the configuration state - space , represented by the variability of the alpha diversity .",
    "the changes of alpha variability across local landscapes and across different climatic regions are the so called beta and gamma diversities respectively .",
    "local landscape diversity or beta diversity is driven by the local topographic variations that lead to local gradients of soil moisture , depth , chemistry and physical properties in the soil and microclimates variations for example .",
    "the gamma diversity is associated with the ecosystem response to disturbances such as fire , insects , floods , pathogens , human activity , and the autogenic successional recovery of the disturbed ecosystems .",
    "small time scale dynamics will affect mostly alpha diversity ; while high time scale dynamic changes the beta diversity resulting for example in a shifting mosaic of different alpha - level ecosystem conditions @xcite .",
    "in @xcite the authors use information theory to provide abstract and concise measures of complexity as well as other informational concepts associated with it , such as : emergence , self - organization , and homeostasis . focusing on the information produced by a system , complexity represents the balance between emergence and self - organization , while homeostasis can be seen as a measure of the stability of the system . for details in this approximation",
    "see prokopenko et al @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , defining an specific measure for complexity is an open task that is being approached from different perspectives .",
    "two recent interesting approaches are the informational framework and time series analysis related with more dynamic characteristics of the system .",
    "taking this into account , we present three case - studies in order to illustrate three relevant components of forest complexity and their implications .",
    "the first case corresponds to the universidad autnoma chapingo forestry experimental field of zoquiapan ( 19,418 ha ) which was decreed as a natural protected area ( npa ) on march 13 , 1937 by president lazaro cardenas @xcite .",
    "the park belongs to the physiographic region of lagos y volcanes del anahuac province , in the gran sierra volcanica subprovince with a predominance of andesita rocks @xcite .",
    "the site is characterized by seven units of soil , being andosols the most abundant ( 29.81% ) and the most suitable for forestry@xcite .    with a dominant semi - cold climate in the highlands and template in the lowlands",
    "; the park falls within the watersheds of texcoco - zumpango lake in the west , and in the north by the tuchac lake and tecocomulco @xcite .",
    "the park s vegetation is mainly characterized as the so - called temperate forests being the pine forest the most extensive , followed by the pine forests of _",
    "p. hartwegii _ , _",
    "p. ayacahuite _ and _",
    "p. pseudostrobus_. for its part , the _ quercus _ forest is the second most representative vegetation in the park followed by grasslands , some of which are climax communities on the tops of the highest peaks , and some are the product of a disturbance in the original forest giving place to the so called anthropogenic grasslands , as well as those which are in the valleys where floods are periodic due to soil drainage or high precipitations @xcite .    in table 1",
    ", we present some of the environmental system elements and potential variables to measure systemic complexity .    .some environmental system elements and possible variables for complexity measurement [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     from figure1 , the variables of soil , temperature , and evaporation are in a category of very low emergence ; meanwhile vegetation , wildlife and precipitation are cataloged as low emergence . in terms of self - organization ,",
    "the vegetation , wildlife and precipitation variables have a high self - organization value ; just as the variables of soil temperature and evaporation which are also classified as high self - organization . it should be noted that when comparing the figure emergence and self - organization , the inverse relationship between them is clear .",
    "we also notice that the variables on average have a high complexity value ; being the soil and temperature in a category of medium complexity , compared with the other variables ( vegetation , wildlife , precipitation and evaporation ) which have high complexity values range .    from the results above , it can be summarized that among the six variables analyzed , vegetation is the one with major emergency ( 0.26 ) , and therefore less self - organization ( 0.73 ) ; conversely soils present the lowest emergency value ( 0.13 ) and hence the greatest self - organization level ( 0.86 ) .",
    "vegetation variable which is more complex ( 0.78 ) represents a better balance between emergency values and self - organization .",
    "soil has the least complex variable ( 0.46 ) , this may be because the scale of analysis incorporated very few soil variability in the site of study .",
    "in general , we observed that this temperate forest has a very low emergency value ( 0.20 ) , while the degree of self - organization is very high ( 0.80 ) and system is also at high level of complexity ( 0.63 ) .      in figure 5",
    ", we present complexity over different type of vegetation ( horizontal axis ) and the individuals with dap @xmath1 1 cm and dap @xmath2 1 cm ( vertical axis ) .     1 cm and dap @xmath2 1 cm .",
    "as expected higher values of complexity corresponds to riparian and forest burn there are also some perturbed sites that remains complex due to the management ]     1 cm , the diamond is the media of the population ; on the bottom we present the complexity measurement boxplot over different type of vegetation and for the individuals with dap @xmath2 1 cm , the diamond is the media of the population.,title=\"fig : \" ]   1 cm , the diamond is the media of the population ; on the bottom we present the complexity measurement boxplot over different type of vegetation and for the individuals with dap @xmath2 1 cm , the diamond is the media of the population.,title=\"fig : \" ]    in general perturbed vegetation presents the lowest complexity values , while the highest complexity values are present in forest juveniles ( dap @xmath2 1 cm ) .",
    "vegetation in riparian forest ( dap @xmath1 1 cm ) show higher levels of complexity , which may be understood as a consequence of the regular and consistent geomorphological disturbances it experiences , such as continuous change in the topography of the canal .",
    "in fact , for some authors suggest that riparian forests are one of the most complex ecological systems of the biosphere and also one of the most important for maintaining the landscape and its rivers @xcite .",
    "it is also interesting that there are some outliers with high values of complexity in perturbed sites , as a result of good management practices which includes the conservation of several adult trees .",
    "finally it is clear that the three types of vegetation exhibited different levels of complexity which are related to other informational concepts such as homeostasis ( related to resilience ) and even with sustainability potential @xcite .",
    "the time series analysis of @xmath0 fluctuations from metolius pine forest in oregon , using both fourier and dfa , results in a @xmath3 behavior which is a fingerprint of complexity .",
    "in this paper we have showed different aspects of complexity : systemic complexity using the gershenson formalism in zoquiapan forest ; biological complexity in the tropical rain forest and dynamic complexity in a oregon forest ( usa ) . from these cases of study we state the following : ( 1 ) from a systemic perspective forests exhibit high levels of complexity and very high levels of self - organization , which is consistent with previous work @xcite ; ( 2 ) from our case of study in lacantun river we showed that lowest values of complexity correspond to perturbed sites . however",
    ", this lost of complexity may be reduce with a good management ; ( 3 ) as suspected , riparian forest are different from tropical forest and in general for dap @xmath1 1 cm shows higher levels of complexity ; ( 4 ) @xmath0 fluctuation time series from metolius pine forest in oregon usa , follows a complex dynamic characterized by @xmath3 noise .",
    "interesting enough , analyzing data from after the b&b fires , the metolius forest lost complexity exhibiting a brown like noise with beta above 1.5 which suggests a very interesting application of forest complexity measurements in terms of ecosystem integrity .",
    "new results that will be presented in other paper , show that most of north america forest in ameriflux data base also exhibits @xmath3 dynamics , which was expected because it represents a good evolutionary trade - off between robustness and adaptation .",
    "recently @xcite and co - workers have pointed out that as complexity is deeply related with sustainability .",
    "this fact has great implication for forest management and conservation , for example in the lacantun case of study it is represented with the presence of high complexity outliers in perturbed sites . we know",
    "first hand , thanks to the field trips to the sites and the interaction with the stakeholders , that this complexity values correspond to an agricultural site with a very good management that includes the conservation of several adult trees .",
    "this proves that under a proper management we can conserve systemic properties of the agro - ecological system such as complexity , promoting sustainability .",
    "another example , but in a negative direction , is the common practice of reforestation that uses large mono - species plantations , this of course , has a much lower complexity value than original forests",
    ". then even when reforestation is a good practice , our results make it clear that it should be done in such a way that it maximizes complexity ( and sustainability ) , being biodiversity the most straightforward strategy to achieve so . in the same manner ,",
    "forest engineers cut some trees in the so called sanitation cutting , trying to increase forest productivity by liberating resources eliminating old , damage or sick trees .",
    "but once again this practice does not take into account that diversity ( complexity ) is profoundly necessary to maintain forest sustainability .",
    "as forests are indeed complex systems , they are inherently non - predictable and non - controllable @xcite which causes very serious issues regarding the validity of traditional management plans and environmental impact assessment .",
    "management should be then re - conceptualized as a multi - objective optimization process with several restrictions over a non - stationary space of configuration . therefore",
    ", traditional management should be replaced with an adaptive scheme . for its part ,",
    "environmental impact assessments ( eia ) are intended to be technical and administrative instruments used to identify , prevent and interpret the environmental impacts that may occur in the environment if a project is executed , in the context of authority decision about the project acceptance .",
    "based on our results which indicate that forest are so complex that any eia is limited , we suggest that this may be partially corrected by incorporating a stochastic perspective in the eia formulation , complemented with a final risk analysis .",
    "we acknowledge the following ameriflux sites for their data records : site ids .",
    "in addition , funding for ameriflux data resources was provided by the u.s .",
    "department of energy s office of science .",
    "olc thanks fondo capital semilla at universidad iberoamericana and to sni program with number 62929 .",
    "erm thanks conacyt posdoctoral fellowship .",
    "kleinn , c. ( 1992 ) . on the compatibility of forest inventory results . in conference on integreating forest manage- ment over space and time .",
    "iufro - conference , 13 17 january 1992 ( pp .",
    "canberra , australia : anutech .",
    "vidal , c.,lanz , a.,tomppo , e.,schadauer , k.,geschwantner , t. , di cosmo , l. , robert , n. ( 2008 ) . establishing forest inventory reference definitions for forest and growing stock : a study towards common reporting .",
    "silva fennica , 42(2 ) , 247 .",
    "lomas - barri , claudia tania , s. terrazas - domnguez , and h. tchikou maga .",
    "`` propuesta de ordenamiento ecolgico territorial para el parque nacional zoquiapan y anexas . ''",
    "revista chapingo .",
    "serie ciencias forestales y del ambiente 11.1 ( 2005 ) : 57 - 71                  gershenson , c. and heylighen , f. ( 2003 ) . when can we call a system self - organizing ? in advances in artificial life , 7th european conference , ecal 2003 lnai 2801 , w. banzhaf , t. christaller , p. dittrich , j. t. kim , and j. ziegler , ( eds . )",
    "springer , berlin , pp .",
    "url http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin.ao/0303020 .",
    "wuensche , a. ( 1999 ) . classifying cellular automata automatically : finding gliders , filtering , and relating space - time patterns , attractor basins , and the z parameter .",
    "complexity 4 ( 3 ) : 4766 .",
    "url http://tinyurl.com/y7pss7 .",
    "harris , l.d .",
    "& scheck , j. 1991 . from implications to applications : the dispersal corridor principle applied to the conservation of biological diversity . in : saunders , d.a .",
    "& hobbs , r.j.(eds ) . 1991 .",
    "nature conservation 2:the role of corridors .",
    "survey beatly and sons , australia .",
    "pp.189 - 220 .",
    "warkentin , i.g . ,",
    "greenberg , r. & salgado ortiz , j. 1995 .",
    "songbird use of gallery woodlands in recently cleared and older settled landscapes of the selva lacandona , chiapas , mexico . conservation biology .",
    "9(5):1095 - 1106 .",
    "iigo - elias , e.e .",
    "ecology and breeding biology of the scarlet macaw ( ara macao ) in the usumacinta drainage basin of mxico and guatemala .",
    "ph.d . dissertation .",
    "university of florida .",
    "gainesville , florida , usa .",
    "117 pp .",
    "rivera , a. l. , estaol , b. , sentes - madrid , h. , fossion , r. , toledo - roy , j. c. , mendoza - temis , j. , ... & frank , a. ( 2016 ) . heart rate and systolic blood pressure variability in the time domain in patients with recent and long - standing diabetes mellitus .",
    "plos one , 11(2 ) , e0148378 .",
    "niu , h. , & wang , j. ( 2015 ) . quantifying complexity of financial short - term time series by composite multiscale entropy measure .",
    "communications in nonlinear science and numerical simulation , 22(1 ) , 375 - 382 .",
    "xiao , j. , zhuang , q. , baldocchi , d. d. , law , b. e. , richardson , a. d. , chen , j. , ... & verma , s. b. ( 2008 ) .",
    "estimation of net ecosystem carbon exchange for the conterminous united states by combining modis and ameriflux data .",
    "agricultural and forest meteorology , 148(11 ) , 1827 - 1847 .",
    "lpez - corona , o. , padilla , p. , huerta , a. , mustri - trejo , d. , perez , k. , ruiz , a. , ... & zamudio , f. ( 2015 ) .",
    "measuring social complexity and the emergence of cooperation from entropic principles .",
    "arxiv preprint arxiv:1502.05741 .",
    "boyer , d. , & lpez - corona , o. ( 2009 ) .",
    "self - organization , scaling and collapse in a coupled automaton model of foragers and vegetation resources with seed dispersal .",
    "journal of physics a : mathematical and theoretical , 42(43 ) , 434014 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> forests are complex systems , and it is necessary to include this characteristic in every forest definition , in order to consider the restriction that this imposes in terms of prediction and control . </S>",
    "<S> this lost of predictability and controllability should be incorporated in every environmental impact assessment or management program . </S>",
    "<S> we present two case - studies located in mexico and one in the us to illustrate three relevant indicators of complexity . </S>",
    "<S> first , we introduce an informational framework to measure the zoquiapan forest systemic complexity . </S>",
    "<S> then , we analyze complexity changes among different types of forest and management systems , related with spatial distributions , using data from a floristic study in the montes azules national park . finally , we analyze time series of @xmath0 fluctuations taken from ameriflux data bases . </S>",
    "<S> our results show firstly that it is possible to measure the systemic complexity of different forests , characteized by a criticality state ( 1/f noise ) which has been proposed as a finger print of complexity . and secondly , that this characteristic can be used as a proxy of their state of conservation , where the lowest complexity values are found in perturbed areas showing the relevance of the concept and its measurement for forest conservation and management .    * *    oliver lpez - corona^1,2^ , elvia ramrez - carrillo^3^ , vanessa prez - cirera^1^ , fernando de len - gonzlez^4^ , rodolfo dirzo^5^ ,    * 1 instituto de investigacin para el desarrollo con equidad ( equide ) , universidad iberoamericana , ciudad de mxico , mxico . * </S>",
    "<S> 2 centro de ciencias de la complejidad ( c3 ) , universidad nacional autnoma de mxico , ciudad de mxico , mxico . * </S>",
    "<S> 3doctorado en ciencias agropecuarias , universidad autnoma metropolitana - xochimilco , ciudad de mxico , mxico * </S>",
    "<S> 4departamento de produccin agrcola y animal , universidad autnoma metropolitana - xochimilco , ciudad de mxico , mxico * 5department of biology , stanford university , stanford , ca 94305 , usa . </S>",
    "<S> lopezoliverx@otrasenda.org * * * * * </S>"
  ]
}