{
  "article_text": [
    "despite the importance of software quality , its management is still an immature discipline in software engineering research and practice . research work has gone in many directions and produced a variety of useful results . however , there is still no commonly agreed way for quality management .",
    "the practice varies strongly from a concentration on testing to a large - scale quality management process .",
    "one main problem is that many of the tools and methods in quality assurance and management work isolated .",
    "for example , development teams usually perform peer reviews whose results are often not set into relation to results of integration or system tests performed by the quality assurance team .",
    "hence , quality is tackled on many levels without a combined strategy @xcite .",
    "what is missing is a clear integration of these single efforts .",
    "one prerequisite for such an integration is a quality management sub - process in the overall development process .",
    "the process defines the roles , activities , and artefacts and how they work together .",
    "hence , the maturity level of the organisation s processes plays an important role .",
    "a second prerequisite is a clear quality model that specifies the quality of the software to be developed .",
    "current quality models such as the iso 9126 @xcite have widely acknowledged problems @xcite . especially as a basis for assessment and prediction , the defined `` -ilities '' are too abstract .",
    "a clear transition to measurements is therefore difficult in practice .",
    "hence , quantitative quality assessment and prediction is usually done without direct use of such a quality model .",
    "this , in turn , leads to isolated solutions in quality management .",
    "we use the previously proposed activity - based quality models ( abqm ) @xcite as a basis for quality assessment and prediction .",
    "they provide a clear structure of quality and detailed information about quality - influences .",
    "activity - based quality models have proven useful in practice to structure quality and to generate corresponding guidelines and checklists . in this paper , we add a systematic transition from abqms to bayesian networks in order to enhance their assessment and prediction capabilities .",
    "a four - step approach is defined that generates a bayesian network using an activity - based quality model and an assessment or prediction goal .",
    "the approach is demonstrated in several examples .",
    "we first motivate and introduce activity - based quality models in section [ sec : quality_models ] . in section [ sec : approach ] the four - step approach for systematically constructing a bayesian network from an activity - based quality model is proposed . the approach is then demonstrated in an initial evaluation in section [ sec : proof ] using publicly available data from nasa projects and measured data from the open source system _ tomcat_. related work is discussed in section [ sec : related ] and final conclusions are given in section [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "quality models describe in a structured way the meaning of a software s quality .",
    "we introduce the use of general quality models and how the modelling of activities and facts helps to define quality more precisely .      not only the functionality but also the quality of a software system needs to be specified in order to control it .",
    "a quality model describes what is meant by _ quality _ and refines this concept in a structured way . in practice",
    ", this is often merely a metric such as _ number of defects _ or high - level descriptions as given by the iso 9126 @xcite .    in general",
    ", there are two main uses of quality models in a software project :    * as a basis for defining quality requirements * for assigning quality assurance techniques and measurements to quality requirements    for the first use , requirements engineers commonly constrain well - known quality attributes ( reliability , maintainability , etc . ) as defined in a quality model . in practice",
    ", they often reduce this to simple statements such as `` the system shall be easily maintainable . ''",
    "the second use is often not explicitly considered .",
    "however , quality engineers nearly always measure certain metrics such as the number of faults in the system detected by inspections and testing .",
    "the relationship between these measures and quality attributes remains unclear .",
    "the reason lies in the lack of practical means to define metrics for these high - level quality attributes .",
    "hence , quality models need more structure and detail to integrate them closely in the development process .",
    "we proposed to use activity - based quality models @xcite in order to address the shortcomings of existing quality models .",
    "the idea is to avoid to use high - level `` -ilities '' for defining quality and instead to break it down into detailed facts and their influence on activities performed on and with the system .",
    "in addition to information about the characteristics of a system , the model contains further important facts about the process , the team and the environment and their respective influence on , for example , maintenance activities such as , , or .",
    "for example , redundant methods in the source code , also called clones , exhibit a negative influence on modifications of the system , because changes to clones have to be performed in several places in the source code .",
    "concrete models have been built for maintainability @xcite , usability @xcite , and security @xcite .    for abqms , an explicit meta - model ( also called structure model )",
    "was defined in order to characterise the quality model elements and their relationships .",
    "four elements of the meta - model are most important : , , and .",
    "an can be any thing , animate or inanimate , that can have an influence on software quality , e.g. , the source code of a method or the involved testers .",
    "these entities are characterised by attributes such as or .",
    "the combination of an entity and an attribute is called a _",
    "fact_. we use the notation for a fact .",
    "for the example of code clones , we write to denote methods that are redundant .",
    "these facts are assessable either by automatic measurement or by manual review . if possible , we define applicable measures for the facts inside the abqm .    an influence of a fact is specified by an .",
    "we concentrate on the influences on activities , i.e. , anything that is done with the system .",
    "for example , or are high - level activities . the impact on an can be positive or negative .",
    "an activity might have an influence on a fact that also has an impact on it .",
    "these cyclic situations are not considered in the meta - model .",
    "we complete the code clone example by adding the impact on : .",
    "this means that if a system entity exhibits the attribute it will have a negative impact on the activity , i.e. , changing the method .",
    "a further example is the following tuple that describes consistent identifiers : .",
    "its meaning is that identifiers that can be shown to be consistent have a positive influence on the modification activity of the maintainer of the system . in the model itself ,",
    "we document more information such as textual descriptions , sources , and assessment descriptions .",
    "however , the short notation captures the essential relationships .",
    "the model does not only contain the impacts of facts on activities but also the relationships among these .",
    "facts as well as activities are organised in hierarchies .",
    "a top - level activity has sub - activities such as , , or .",
    "these examples are depicted in figure [ fig : quality_matrix ] . in realistic quality models",
    "they are further refined .",
    "for example , maintenance can have sub - activities such as and .",
    "these activities can be derived from existing standards ( e.g. , @xcite ) or the activities defined in process models .        because facts are a composite of an entity and an attribute , the organisation in a hierarchy is straightforward .",
    "hierarchical relationships between entities do usually already exist .",
    "the top - level in figure [ fig : quality_matrix ] is the of the software development project , which denotes the root for all entities of the system as well as entities from its environment . in the example",
    ", it contains the , the system s and the development .",
    "again , these entities need to be further refined .",
    "for example , the system could consist of the source code as well as the executable .",
    "all of these entities can be described with attributes , e.g. , the of the . in principle",
    ", there could be more complex relationships instead of hierarchies , but modelling and finding information tends to be easier if such complex relationships are mapped to hierarchies .",
    "the two hierarchies , the fact tree and the activity tree , together with the impacts of the facts on the activities can then be visualised using a matrix as in figure [ fig : quality_matrix ] .",
    "the fact tree is shown on the left , the activity tree on the top .",
    "the impacts are depicted by entries in the matrix where a `` + '' denotes a positive and a ``  '' a negative impact .",
    "the associations between facts in the fact tree can have two different meanings . either an entity is a part or a kind of its super - entity . along the inheritance associations ,",
    "parts and attributes are inherited .",
    "hence , it allows a more compact description and prevents omissions in the model .",
    "for example , naming conventions are valid for all identifiers no matter whether they are class names , file names , or variable names .",
    "having defined all these entries in the abqm , we can specify which activities we want to support and which influencing facts need to be analysed . in terms of the above example , if we want to support the activity , we know that we need to inspect the identifiers for their consistency .",
    "another way of looking at abqms is as gqm patterns @xcite .",
    "the activity defines the goal and the facts are questions for that goal that are measured by certain metrics in a defined assessment . in the example , the goal is to evaluate the modification activity that is analysed by asking the question `` how consistent are the identifiers ? '' , which is asked in an assessment .",
    "there exists a prototype tool to define this kind of large and detailed quality models @xcite .",
    "besides the easier creation and modification of the model , this has also the advantage that we can automate certain quality assurance tasks .",
    "for example , by using the tool we can automatically generate customised review guidelines for specific views .",
    "although activity - based quality models have proven to be useful in practice , there is no systematic measurement approach for them .",
    "hence , there are no quantitative assessments and predictions possible so far .",
    "we propose an approach that can be used for systematically deriving assessment and prediction models from an activity - based quality model .",
    "the general aim of the approach is to provide quality managers with a systematic method to derive assessments and predictions from an activity - based quality model . in the abqm , there are definitions of what quality means with respect to different situations , artefacts , and considered activities . at present , we give a textual description in the quality model that specifies how a fact could be assessed .",
    "for example , the fact described by contains the following assessment description : `` this fact can be assessed manually or semi - automatically . for the automatic assessments there are tools such as conqat or ccfinder to detect redundant parts of the source code . ''",
    "this information is useful for quality assurance planning but can not directly be used for an overall assessment , let alone prediction .",
    "moreover , as the basic principle of activity - based quality models is that the most important question in quality is how well activities can be performed on and with the system , not only facts but also activities should be assessed and predicted from the knowledge of facts and impacts . at present",
    ", activity - based quality models only make the qualitative statement whether an impact is positive or negative .",
    "this is suitable for rough assessments only .",
    "more comprehensive and precise assessments of the current state and prediction of future states need a more sophisticated approach .",
    "it has to systematically help using the given relationships and enriching them with quantitative information . in terms of measurement scales , we move from an ordinal scale to an interval scale or higher .    as most facts and especially the relationships between facts and activities have an associated uncertainty , statistical methods are necessary .",
    "the two major reasons are    1 .   that we can not determine the exact relationship but can derive an uncertain range and 2 .",
    "measured values can be uncertain , e.g. , values from expert opinion .",
    "moreover , the statistical method needs to be able to directly model the dependencies of different factors from the quality model .",
    "we identified bayesian networks as most suitable for that task .",
    "bayesian networks , also known as bayesian belief nets or belief networks , are a modelling technique for causal relationship based on bayesian inference .",
    "they are represented as a directed acyclic graph with nodes for uncertain variables and edges for directed relationships between the variables .",
    "this graph models all the relationships abstractly . a hypothetical example with the 3 variables _ code complexity _ ,",
    "_ testing effort _ , and _ number of field failures _ is given in figure  [ fig : bbn_example ] .",
    "the code complexity influences the testing effort and the number of field failures of a software .",
    "the testing effort also impacts the number of failures .        for each node or variable",
    "there is a corresponding _ node probability table _ ( npt ) .",
    "these tables define the relationships and the uncertainty of these variables .",
    "the variables are usually discrete with a fixed number of states . for each state",
    ", it gives the probability that the variable is in this state .",
    "if there are parent nodes , i.e. , a node that influences the current node , it defines these probabilities in dependence on the states of the parents .",
    "an example for the variable _ number of field failures _ is shown in table  [ tab : example_npt ] .",
    "it specifies all combinations , e.g. , that the _ number of field failures _ is with a probability of 60% in the state `` @xmath0 '' if both parents are in the state _ low _ , and with 40% in `` @xmath0 '' if the testing effort is _ high _ and the code complexity is _",
    "low_.    .an example npt for the variable _ number of field failures _ with two states and two parents [ tab : example_npt ] [ cols=\"<,>,>,>,>,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab : security_results ]    obviously , the prediction is not very accurate , but the distribution shifts in the correct direction as the mean of the distribution used for the vulnerability density is 0.0054 . this effect is similar as in the cm1 case in section  [ sec : maintainability_cases ] . the model can not completely overcome deficiencies in the underlying distributions for the indicators .",
    "windows and linux have 1540 msloc , i.e. , the are an order of magnitude larger than tomcat .",
    "hence , one explanation of the large difference could be that the used underlying distribution for the vulnerability is wrong and need to be improved with data from systems with other sizes .",
    "another possibility is that the system size is a fact that needs to be considered . in this case",
    ", it seems that smaller systems have a higher vulnerability density .",
    "this could be explained by the fact that in tomcat almost all parts of the system are exposed to external access .",
    "therefore , the fact _ size of software _ might be introduced as an additional factor . however , experimenting with this additional fact showed that it can not reach accurate prediction as it is still constrained by the vulnerability density distribution .",
    "the large difference can also mean that our chosen metric _",
    "vulnerability density _ is not suitable as it seems to be strongly dependent on the system size , type , or both .",
    "hence , more advanced metrics such as _ breach rates _ or _ cost to breach",
    "_ @xcite should be used .",
    "these measures are , however , significantly harder to measure .",
    "the foremost goal of these examples was not to show predictive validity but to investigate the general feasibility of the assessment and prediction approach .",
    "nevertheless , in two of the maintainability cases , we were able to come to accurate predictions although we had little knowledge about the actual system .",
    "furthermore , we saw that it is possible to build a bayesian model with reasonable effort .",
    "the four - step approach gives direct guidance for most of the network building .",
    "however , setting up the npts is still a challenge .",
    "there are usually several possibilities how a relationship can be expressed and with how much uncertainty it should be afflicted .",
    "this needs expert opinion and experimentation .",
    "nevertheless , agenarisk provides sophisticated tool support to find easier ways to define an npt .    another problem encountered in the analysed cases was to find a reasonable empirical data basis for the distribution of the indicators . for the facts and activities ,",
    "it is sufficient to employ rather coarse - grained ranked states and the good tool support helps in defining corresponding distributions . for the indicators , a good data basis or distributions from the literature are crucial .",
    "as our abqms can get very large with a few hundreds of model elements , it remains to be evaluated whether the approach scales when the quality model is fully mapped to a bayesian network .",
    "probably a selection of a subset of the quality model is necessary first .",
    "furthermore , it is important to note that a more in - depth validation of a resulting bayesian network is necessary in order to ensure that all parts  topology , node states , and npts  represent the interdependencies of the quality factors good enough so that a valid statement about the quality of the software system can be made .",
    "this is not covered by these examples but has to be the next step .",
    "the usage of the proposed approach , however , has benefits beyond assessing a quality goal .",
    "if we are able to calibrate the model and establish sufficient accuracy in the bayesian network , we will be able to calculate low level goals for quality goals .",
    "for example , we can infer requirements for the indicators of the maintainability cases for a given goal for the average change effort .",
    "a required average change effort of only 10 person - hours has the most likely explanation in a comment ratio of 0.3 , an average cyclomatic complexity of 6.4 , and an average module size of 64 loc .",
    "this can be used to guide development .",
    "finally , also requirements specification is supported by this approach as quality requirements now can use the given indicators to specify assessable requirements .",
    "the basic idea to use bayesian networks for assessing and predicting software quality has been developed foremost by fenton , neil , and littlewood .",
    "they introduced bayesian networks as a tool in this area and applied it in various contexts related to software quality .",
    "in @xcite they formulate a critique on current defect prediction models and suggest to use bayesian networks .",
    "other researchers also used bayesian networks for software quality prediction similarly @xcite    the work closest to the approach proposed in this paper is @xcite .",
    "the authors discuss quality models such as the iso 9126 @xcite and their problems such as the undefinedness of the relationships in such a model .",
    "they aim at solving these problems by defining bayesian networks for quality attributes directly .",
    "our work differentiates in using a defined structure for quality models that contain far more details as common quality models .",
    "this structure and detail allows a straightforward derivation of a bayesian network from the quality model .",
    "this has the advantage that the basic quality model can also be used for other purposes then prediction such as the specification of quality requirements .",
    "beaver , schiavone , and berrios @xcite also used a bayesian network to predict software quality including diverse factors such as team skill and process maturity . in his thesis @xcite , beaver even compared the approach to neural networks and least squares regressions that both were outperformed by the bayesian network .",
    "however , they did not rely on a structured quality model as in our approach .    an earlier version of this paper was published in @xcite .",
    "it already contained the 4-step approach as described in this paper .",
    "however , we added 3 additional projects to the maintainability case and a completely new security case in order to validate the applicability of the approach more broadly .",
    "a high goal in software quality management is the reliable quantitative assessment and prediction of software quality .",
    "many efforts in building assessment and prediction models have given insights in the usefulness but also the constraints of such models . however , these models have not been tightly integrated into other quality management activities .",
    "activity - based quality models have proven in practice to be a solid foundation for defining quality on a detailed level .",
    "however , quantitative analyses have not been directly possible so far .",
    "bayesian networks have been shown to provide promising results in quality predictions . because of that and their clear structuring that can straightforwardly reflect the structure of activity - based quality models , a four - step approach for transferring activity - based quality models to bayesian networks was proposed .",
    "it allows to systematically construct a bayesian network that uses the knowledge encoded in the quality model to provide information about a given assessment or prediction goal . in the terminology of @xcite",
    ", we use a _ quality definition model _ ( the abqm ) and enrich it with a _ quality assessment _ and _ quality prediction model _ ( the bayesian network ) .",
    "although not fully validated , we demonstrated the approach in a study using real nasa project data and automatically measured bug patterns of the tomcat servlet container .",
    "the examples showed the applicability of the approach to such projects and could improve the prediction in comparison to industry standard values . for 2 of the 5 cases ,",
    "the predictions were accurate despite the usage of literature values as basis for the distributions only .",
    "the use of bayesian networks opens many possibilities .",
    "most interestingly , after building a large bayesian network , a sensitivity analysis of that network can be performed .",
    "this can answer the practically very relevant question which of the factors are the most important ones .",
    "it would allow to reduce the measurement efforts significantly by concentrating on these most influential facts .",
    "we plan to apply this approach in future case studies at our industrial partners in order to further validate the approach .",
    "a comprehensive analysis of the predictive validity is necessary to judge the usefulness of the approach and to compare it with other means for assessment and prediction .",
    "this work has partially been supported by the german federal ministry of education and research ( bmbf ) in the project quamoco ( 01 is 08023b ) .",
    "i would like to thank the anonymous reviewers at promise for feedback on an earlier version and vic basili , sebastian winter , and the anonymous ist reviewers for helpful suggestions for this version .",
    "f.  deissenboeck , s.  wagner , m.  pizka , s.  teuchert , j .- f .",
    "girard , an activity - based quality model for maintainability , in : proc .",
    "23rd international conference on software maintenance ( icsm 07 ) , ieee computer society press , 2007 .",
    "s.  wagner , k.  lochmann , s.  winter , a.  goeb , m.  klaes , quality models in practice : a preliminary analysis , in : proc .",
    "3rd international symposium on empirical software engineering and measurement ( esem 09 ) , ieee computer society , 2009 .",
    "a.  avizienis , j .- c .",
    "laprie , b.  randell , c.  landwehr , basic concepts and taxonomy of dependable and secure computing , ieee transactions on dependable and secure computing 1  ( 1 ) ( 2004 ) 1133 . http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/tdsc.2004.2 [ ] .",
    "o.  alhazmi , y.  malaiya , i.  ray , security vulnerabilities in software systems : security vulnerabilities in software systems : a quantitative perspective , in : data and applications security 2005 , vol .",
    "3654 of lncs , springer - verlag , 2005 , pp . 281294 .",
    "f.  deissenboeck , e.  juergens , b.  hummel , s.  wagner , b.  mas y parareda , m.  pizka , tool support for continuous quality control , ieee software 25  ( 5 ) ( 2008 ) 6067 . http://dx.doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ms.2008.30 [ ] .",
    "s.  e. schechter , toward econometric models of the security risk from remote attack , ieee security and privacy 3  ( 1 ) ( 2005 ) 4044 .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/http://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/msp.2005.30 [ ] .",
    "s.  amasaki , y.  takagi , o.  mizuno , t.  kikuno , constructing a bayesian belief network to predict final quality in embedded system development , ieice transactions on information and systems e88-d  ( 6 ) ( 2005 ) 11341141 .",
    "j.  m. beaver , g.  a. schiavone , j.  s. berrios , predicting software suitability using a bayesian belief network , in : proc .",
    "fourth international conference on machine learning and applications , ieee computer society , 2005 , pp .",
    "http://dx.doi.org/http://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/icmla.2005.52 [ ] .",
    "s.  wagner , a bayesian network approach to assess and predict software quality using activity - based quality models , in : proc .",
    "1st international conference on predictor models in software engineering ( promise 09 ) , acm press , 2009 .",
    "f.  deissenboeck , e.  juergens , k.  lochmann , s.  wagner , software quality models : purposes , usage scenarios and requirements , in : proc .",
    "7th international workshop on software quality ( wosq 09 ) , ieee computer society , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> * context : * software quality is a complex concept . therefore , assessing and predicting it is still challenging in practice as well as in research . </S>",
    "<S> activity - based quality models break down this complex concept into concrete definitions , more precisely facts about the system , process , and environment as well as their impact on activities performed on and with the system . </S>",
    "<S> however , these models lack an operationalisation that would allow them to be used in assessment and prediction of quality . </S>",
    "<S> bayesian networks have been shown to be a viable means for this task incorporating variables with uncertainty . </S>",
    "<S> * objective : * the qualitative knowledge contained in activity - based quality models are an abundant basis for building bayesian networks for quality assessment . </S>",
    "<S> this paper describes a four - step approach for deriving systematically a bayesian network from a assessment goal and a quality model . * </S>",
    "<S> method : * the four steps of the approach are explained in detail and with running examples . furthermore , an initial evaluation is performed , in which data from nasa projects and an open source system is obtained . </S>",
    "<S> the approach is applied to this data and its applicability is analysed . </S>",
    "<S> * results : * the approach is applicable to the data from the nasa projects and the open source system . however , the predictive results vary depending on the availability and quality of the data , especially the underlying general distributions . </S>",
    "<S> * conclusion : * the approach is viable in a realistic context but needs further investigation in case studies in order to analyse its predictive validity .    </S>",
    "<S> activity - based quality model , bayesian network , quality assessment , quality prediction </S>"
  ]
}