{
  "article_text": [
    "saturn s great storm of 2010  2011 was one of the most powerful convective events ever witnessed .",
    "it s rapid development , its huge horizontal scale , and the planet encircling wake it generated within @xmath06 months were accompanied by a prolific generation of lightning @xcite and an unusual spectral character consistent with the delivery of ammonia and water ices to the visible cloud deck @xcite , which is @xmath0200 km above the water vapor condensation level near 20 bar , where the lightning also appears to have originated .",
    "the dramatic growth of the storm after its initial formation in early december 2010 was documented by amateur and professional groundbased imaging @xcite and by cassini imaging with the imaging science subsystem ( iss ) @xcite .",
    "the morphological characteristics of the storm during february and may of 2011 are illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : moscomp ] , where iss images are displayed in comparison with infrared images obtained by the visual and infrared mapping spectrometer ( vims ) .",
    "the first vims spectral imaging of the storm occurred in february 2011 , after it was well developed and had a planet - encircling wake , though at the latitude of the storm head , the region upstream of the head was still undisturbed at that time . in these vims images ,",
    "color assignments are 4.08 for red , 1.89 for green , and 3.05 for blue .",
    "the strong absorption at 3 in clouds that are bright at the other two wavelengths produce the orange color that indicates the presence of ammonia ice , which was mainly confined to a 10band of latitude centered at 35n planetocentric latitude , and much less evident in the secondary wake extending south of the storm , especially in the may 2011 images .",
    "the sample vims data set provided in fig .",
    "[ fig:345 ] emphasizes the most striking spectral characteristic of the storm : its remarkably low reflectivity at wavelengths near 3 .",
    "( here brightness is expressed in units of i / f , given by radiance/(solar irradiance/@xmath4 ) , which can exceed unity near 5 because there saturn s thermal emission can exceed the amount of reflected sunlight . ) clearly , the materials convected upward from deeper levels are very different from the surrounding clouds that usually dominate saturn , which have no trace of 3-absorption . from a spectral analysis of the storm head",
    "@xcite showed that it contained a mixture of primarily ammonia ice , with likely contributions of water ice , and a third component that might be either nh@xmath5sh or the unknown material that dominates the upper haze over most of saturn .",
    "as evident in fig .",
    "[ fig : moscomp ] , the ammonia absorption was widespread in the main wake region when the storm head was in a highly active state .",
    "we can also see that at 4.08 , a pseudo continuum wavelength , the storm clouds are brighter than surrounding clouds , indicating relatively larger particles .",
    "where they are bright at 4 , they are also optically thick enough and absorbing enough at 5 to block thermal emission from deeper layers of saturn s atmosphere .",
    "the wake region in february 2011 also had regions where 5-emission was greater than regions upstream of the storm , one of which ( near 150east ) is near the long - lived anticyclonic vortex ( av ) described by @xcite and @xcite and may be an effect produced by that circulation feature .",
    "figure [ fig:345 ] also shows that a remarkable transition of the wake region occurred during the the two years following its beginning in early december 2010 . by december 2012 , in the latitude band from 30n to 39n there was no evidence of bright large - particle cloud features at 4.08 and no evidence of 3-absorption by ammonia ice ( or anything else ) .",
    "most surprising , and a unique outer planet feature as far as we know , the primary wake region turned from being mainly very dark at 5 to being entirely bright and remarkably uniform .",
    "this indicates a dramatic decrease in the opacity of aerosols that normally attenuate thermal radiation emanating from the 5  6 bar level in saturn s atmosphere .",
    "i / f values at 5 increased from pre - storm values of 0.6  0.8 , and even lower deep storm values of 0.2  0.3 , to a remarkably high i / f averaging @xmath02.7 .",
    "the spatial uniformity and high emission levels reached by december 2012 suggested that the entire wake region had been cleared not only of the ammonia clouds that the storm had generated , but also of any other deep aerosols that might provide significant blocking of saturn s 5-thermal emission .",
    "in the following , we use vims imaging at 5 to define the morphological evolution of the wake s `` cleared '' regions .",
    "we then use vims spectral observations to constrain the cloud structure of those regions , finding that they were not completely cleared of all aerosols , but instead retained an upper level cloud similar to surrounding regions . we show that a deep layer of aerosols that blocks part of the thermal emission declined dramatically to less than one optical depth , and is only needed if the he / h@xmath2 mixing ratio is at the higher end of the range of values previously published , but find that complete deep clearing could explain the remarkable uniformity of the late wake region if the he / h@xmath2 mixing ratio is in the lower part of that range .",
    "the morphological evolution of the wake is illustrated by the 5-mosaics displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig:5mos ] . after the anticyclone was overtaken by the head of the storm in mid june 2011 @xcite",
    ", no evidence of the storm head was subsequently seen . but even before that event , the wake was already beginning to develop regions of high emission at 5 , evident from the 11 may 2011 mosaic in fig .",
    "[ fig:5mos ]",
    ". it may also be significant that the region around the anticyclone ( near 320e in that mosaic ) is marked by excess emission .",
    "the widespread clearing seemed to begin in local regions distributed near the mid line of the storm s main wake , and over time became more widely distributed within the wake . by august 2011 ,",
    "the regions of excess 5-emission grew significantly in number and both in longitudinal coverage and in latitudinal extent . by december 2012",
    "the 5-bright wake region spanned latitudes from 30n to 39n ( planetocentric ) , extended over all longitudes , and became nearly uniform in brightness , suggesting the possibility of complete removal of the cloud layer that was strongly attenuating thermal emissions from the deeper layers of saturn .",
    "however , we will show in what follows that the cloud clearing explanation is only plausible for a limited range of he / h@xmath2 mixing ratios .          a quantitative measure of the developing spatial uniformity of the wake region is provided by longitudinal scans at 35n for each of the mosaics displayed in fig .  [ fig:5mos ] .",
    "these scans show that i / f values at 5.12 ( as corrected for view angle variations ) were @xmath01.0 upwind of the storm head in february 2011 , but ranged from 0.3 to 1.9 downstream of the storm head , with relatively small variability ahead of the storm and much larger variability in the wake region . the wake variability at this wavelength increased dramatically by may 2011 , both in amplitude of variation ( ranging from @xmath00.2 to @xmath02.7 ) and in spatial frequency .",
    "but by january 2012 , as the wake extended over most longitudes , the i / f in the wake region grew much more uniform , with most values between 2.4 and 2.6 .",
    "finally , by december of 2012 , the mean wake i / f reached 2.75 with a standard deviation of only 2% .",
    "a plausible qualitative explanation of this behavior is that the tropospheric temperature structure remained relatively stable both longitudinally and over time , but that the deep ammonia cloud layer present before the storm became disturbed by heterogeneous convective towers during the storm , leading to reduced emission where clouds were developing and increased emission where local downwelling motions produced a reduction in deep cloud optical depth .",
    "this perhaps led to strong variability while the storm clouds were active .",
    "but after the storm subsided , the deep clouds were completely cleared , perhaps by the mechanism of @xcite . whether this interpretation is quantitatively consistent with cloud structure inferred by radiative transfer modeling is treated in a subsequent section .",
    "the fact that the peak i / f seen in may 2012 is essentially the same as the mean seen in the december 2012 mosaic suggests that the main difference between them is the fraction of cloud clearing rather than changes in thermal structure .",
    "our work is based on vims observations gathered from february 2011 ( the first vims observations of the storm region ) through december 2012 ( when the cleared region reached full longitudinal and latitudinal extent ) .",
    "data sets that were analyzed and observing conditions are listed in table  [ tbl : obslist ] . these all include measurements of reflected sunlight as well as thermal emission , which we found to provide the best combination of constraints on upper and lower cloud parameters and .    [ cols=\">,^,^,^,>,^ \" , ]     [ tbl : geom ]     and locations in fig .",
    "[ fig : color7 ] .",
    "points plotted with diamond symbols are for fit j , for which the profile was scaled to make the deep mixing ratio equal 5 ppm .",
    "this slightly reduces the best - fit optical depth of the lower cloud and moves it to lower pressures , towards the bottom of the upper cloud .",
    "the worsening fit quality at later times may be due to drifts in the vims spectral scale.[fig : fitsum],width=336 ]      relative to the undisturbed cloud structure ahead of the storm , the earliest bright region we sampled ( b ) had 70% less upper - cloud optical depth and lower boundary pressures , as well as a factor of 4  5 less optical depth for the deeper cloud , with no difference in pressure . but as the wake clearing spread , the lower cloud in the cleared regions rose in altitude to near the 1-bar level .",
    "this might mean that the deeper lower cloud just disappeared and a previously insignificant layer became more noticeable .",
    "most of the fits were made with a deep vmr of 4 ppm ; with 5 ppm , the needed lower cloud opacities decrease somewhat , raising the possibility of a complete clearing of lower cloud particles .",
    "it is also conceivable that small reductions in temperature produce lower emissions , which in turn would require less blocking of those emissions and might also be consistent with a complete clearing of lower cloud particles .",
    "a 1 k change in effective temperature would produce about a 6% change in the emitted radiance at 5 .",
    "the effect of the ratio on the lower cloud properties , and how well spectra can be fit without a lower cloud , are discussed further in the following section .      at middle latitudes ,",
    "the 5-brightest region on saturn seems to be at the edge of the `` cleared - out '' band inside the core of what appears to be the remnant of the anticyclonic vortex ( av ) that formed along with the great storm , but persisted for a much longer time interval @xcite .",
    "vims spectral observations from 10 december 2012 , plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : spec12 ] , show that this core region ( h ) is slightly brighter than the middle of the bright band ( i ) , possibly because there is less high - altitude cloud optical depth to attenuate the thermal emission . at short wavelengths",
    "this core region is relatively darker than the middle of the band , which tends to support this speculation , although this effect should be small if the upper cloud is truly conservative .",
    "spectral fits to the core region spectrum are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : corefits ] for a range of ratios .",
    "even this region of very high 5-brightness and low visible i / f is seen to have a significant optical depth of overlying cloud particles , increasing from @xmath03.5 to @xmath05.5 for ratios from 0.02 to 0.09 .      when we model the structure using two clouds , we find that the upper cloud layer extends from 150 mbar to 250 mbar and has an optical depth near 4 , with little dependence on the assumed he / h@xmath2 ratio .",
    "fit quality is also maintained over a wide range of ratios , mainly by adjusting the mixing ratio and the lower cloud optical depth and pressure .",
    "the inferred properties of the lower cloud in our model vary significantly with the assumed he / h@xmath2 ratio . at large values of that ratio , the sheet cloud is found near 1.8 bars , with an optical depth of 1.6 to 2.4 for deep mixing ratios from 6to 4 , respectively",
    ". as the ratio decreases the optical depth of the lower cloud also decreases , reaching zero at a ratio of 0.05 for a vmr of 4 , at a ratio of 0.064for a vmr of 5 , and at larger ratios for larger values of the mixing ratio .",
    "even though we found a non - zero optical depth for the lower cloud at = 0.064 , that cloud is not providing any significant attenuation of the thermal emission at that point .",
    "in fact , if we make this lower cloud conservative ( setting @xmath6 = 1.0 ) , as for fit h in table  [ tbl : fittab ] , the results is a better fit and an even smaller optical depth .",
    "thus , at this value of the ratio , there is really no evidence for a deep absorbing cloud , although one is clearly required at larger ratios ( assuming fixed trace gas profiles ) .",
    "we next consider an even simpler cloud structure without a deep absorbing cloud .",
    "next we consider solutions for which the deep sheet cloud is entirely absent , solutions for which there are no aerosols present between the upper cloud and the 5-bar region , the approximate location of the peak in the thermal emission contribution function .",
    "these fits are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : corefits]e - h . in this case",
    ", the optical depth of the upper cloud does vary with the ratio , as does its particle size .",
    "the plot ( h ) shows that there is also a strong preference for a ratio @xmath10.064 and a vmr@xmath15 . with ratios 0.03 greater or 0.03 smaller than this value fit quality becomes dramatically worse",
    "no matter what value of the mixing ratio is chosen . however , this result is somewhat misleading because it is a consequence of how we adjusted the mixing ratio profile . by varying the entire profile by the same fraction as the deep mixing ratio we actually made it difficult to fit the absorption feature between 4.1 and 4.5 , which is a feature in reflected sunlight",
    "that is not much affected by changing the ratio , as evident from the lack of variation shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : brightfit ] .",
    "thus there is no benefit to varying the profile at low pressures ( 100  500 mbar ) when changes need to be made at higher pressures to control thermal emission . in the following section we discuss a different style of profile adjustment , in which only deeper mixing ratios are varied .",
    "if we are to explain the great longitudinal uniformity and high 5-brightness that developed in the wake of the great storm as a dynamical clearing of cloud particles below the upper cloud , then the single - cloud model fits tell us under what conditions that explanation is possible . for our previously assumed style of variation , and without varying any other trace gases , the best matches to vims spectra appeared to occur with a ratio @xmath1 0.064@xmath70.02 .",
    "however , the range of acceptable ratios can be expanded considerably if we adjust just the deep profile and also allow arbitrary adjustment of the arsine and ammonia mixing ratios .",
    "the following two extreme cases provide instructive examples .      the one - cloud model from fig .",
    "[ fig : cartoon ] was optimized for = 0.064 and the nominal trace gas profiles .",
    "if we use that cloud model to compute a spectrum for the thermal structure appropriate to a ratio of 0.02 , we see from blue curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : brightfit ] that the resulting spectrum remains a good fit in reflected sunlight , but falls a dramatic factor of two short of the observed i / f in the thermal emission region .",
    "this discrepancy is shown in greater detail in fig .",
    "[ fig : emit02 ] , where the blue curve is for the same model shown by that color in fig .",
    "[ fig : brightfit ] . the other curves in fig .",
    "[ fig : emit02 ] show how that discrepancy can be fixed , first by drastically reducing the mixing ratio ( producing the red curve ) , then by also reducing just the deep mixing ratio ( producing the green curve ) and finally by dropping the arsine volume mixing ratio to 3 ppb ( producing the black curve ) . because is the dominant absorber for @xmath8 5.1 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : pendepth ] ) , the mixing ratio had to be reduced to negligible levels to boost emission in that region .",
    "these modifications result in a /n of 3.09 , evaluated for the 38 spectral points beyond 4.5 .",
    "the corresponding value for the = 0.064 spectrum is a significantly worse 4.55 , even after some fine tuning of the scale height ratio .",
    "note that our above adjustment of the profile was designed to affect the thermal emission without affecting the reflected solar model by keeping the mixing ratio the same at lower pressures and preserving the falloff rate down to the level at which it intersects the chosen deep mixing ratio . to change the deep mixing ratio from @xmath9 to @xmath10 without changing the vmr profile above the original break - point",
    ", we pick a new pressure break - point @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the original scale height ratio .",
    "the profile we selected to optimize the model spectrum for = 0.02 is shown by the black dot - dash profile in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3profs ] , where the nominal profile ( for = 0.064 ) is shown as a solid black line .    .",
    "the profile for this case must be much less than the standard profile , but not constrained to a specific value .",
    "all the model profiles for use @xmath12 = 0.5 .",
    "[ fig : emit02],width=336 ]     for regions of the spectrum where phosphine is dominant , e.g. near 2.8  3 and 4.1  5.1 .",
    "note the order of magnitude disagreement between the cirs and @xcite vims results in the 800 mb region . in the same region",
    "our vims results are relatively consistent with cirs results , considering the substantial variability that has been observed .",
    "[ fig : ph3profs],width=336 ]      in this case , using the nominal one - cloud model to compute a spectrum for a thermal structure appropriate to = 0.135 , we see from the red curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : brightfit ] that although the reflected sunlight dominated part of the spectrum remains well fit , the model spectrum exceeds observations by more than a factor of three in the thermal emission region . a more detailed view of this region is displayed in fig .  [ fig : emit135 ] , where the red curve is for the same model represented by that color in fig .  [ fig : brightfit ] .",
    "this figure also shows how the large discrepancy can be greatly reduced by increasing the deep vmr from 4 ppm to 8 ppm and increasing the pressure break point from 550 mbar to 1.1 bars ( producing the blue curve ) , by also increasing the deep mixing ratio to 6@xmath13 ( producing the green curve ) , and finally , by doubling the arsine vmr to 12 ppb ( producing the black curve ) .",
    "the profile we used here is displayed by the black dotted curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3profs ] .",
    "the adjusted ammonia profile is shown by the dot - dash curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : ammonia ] , where the nominal @xcite profile is shown by the dashed curve .",
    "the final model spectrum is a poorer fit than we were able to achieve for low values of , and required an amount of that we will show exceeds other independent estimates in the critical 1  4 bar region .",
    "thus , this solution seems less plausible .     for and in fig .",
    "[ fig : ammonia ] for .",
    "all model profiles for use @xmath12 = 0.5 .",
    "[ fig : emit135],width=336 ]    , width=336 ]      cloud structure and gas mixing ratio models were optimized to match the thermal emission spectra without disturbing fit quality in the reflected solar dominated part of the spectrum . however , these actually did lead to small differences near 2.1 as a result of different degrees of hydrogen absorption that are visible in this methane window region ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : pendepth ] ) . fig .",
    "[ fig : emitmulti ] compares fits for three different ratios both in the 1.8 - 2.3 region ( left panel ) and in the thermal emission dominated region ( right panel ) .",
    "both comparisons seem to favor the lower ratios in overall fit quality .",
    "however , some of the small scale features in the measurements in the 4.8 - 5.15 region are smoothed over too much by the = 0.02 fit , and better matched by = 0.064 fit .",
    "we found no models that were able to provide a good fit at both 4.67 and 4.74 .",
    "most models produce spectra that were too high at the former and too low at the latter , and this wavelength region contributed a substantial fraction of the @xmath14 for the thermal fits ( lower right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : emitmulti ] ) . nor was any model able to reproduce the small dip near 4.85 .",
    "@xcite also noted similar problems at 4.67 and 4.85 , as well as an under - fitting problem at 5.06 , which did not stand out in our modeling . at shorter wavelengths we also noted problems in fitting the 4.3-band , for which models tended to be more asymmetric than the observations , as can be seen in fig .  [ fig : brightfit ] .",
    "we also were unable to closely reproduce the depth of the methane absorption feature at 2.58- , also visible in fig .",
    "[ fig : brightfit ] . whether any of these problems might be resolved by improved line data remains to be determined .",
    "we have shown that the lack of a deep absorbing cloud in the putative clear regions increases thermal emission at high ratios and decreases thermal emission at low ratios .",
    "we have also shown that these changes can be largely compensated for by adjusting the vertical profiles of and . here",
    "we consider other constraints on these gas profiles that might be inconsistent with such adjustments , and thus provide limits on the range of acceptable ratios .        in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3profs]a , the profiles we derived for the clearest region of the wake are compared with cirs results of @xcite and night - side vims results of @xcite . as indicated by gray bars in the figure ( panel b ) , cirs results are sensitive to in the 400  800 mbar range , while vims night - side spectra are sensitive to in the 1.2  7 bar range ( roughly ) , according to fig . 6 of @xcite .",
    "while cirs results include a substantial latitudinal variation , here we show only example results from 35n and 35s ( planetocentric ) .",
    "the night - side vims results of @xcite are shown only for 35n and for two different retrieval models , one with a non - scattering gray absorbing cloud and a second that includes a scattering cloud .",
    "both models have smaller deep vmr values and smaller scale heights than other results .",
    "although these @xcite night - side retrievals of show considerable variability depending on what type of cloud model is assumed , the large discrepancy between the night - side results and the cirs results in the 400  800 mb range is a robust characteristic .",
    "this is surprising , especially given that our inferred profile is in much better agreement with cirs results in the range where cirs is sensitive to .",
    "most of these profiles are characterized by a constant mixing ratio for @xmath15 and a decline with altitude with a scale height that has a constant ratio to the pressure scale height , following eq.[eq : prof1 ] .",
    "the exception is the three slope profile shown by the black dashed curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3profs ] . in that case",
    "there are two pressure break points @xmath16 and @xmath17 and two scale heights @xmath12 and @xmath18 , and the upper region of the profile satisfies eq .",
    "[ eq : prof2 ] , while eq .",
    "[ eq : prof1 ] applies for @xmath19 .",
    "the large discrepancy between cirs and vims profiles is especially easy to detect in the reflected solar spectrum , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3specs ] . here",
    "we see large differences in spectral shape in the 4.1  4.5 region , with the best match to observed spectra occurring with our nominal profile and the cirs b profile ( which has a larger scale height fraction derived from 35s ) .",
    "the 4.1  4.6 wavelength range is where reflected sunlight is especially sensitive to the mixing ratio in the 100  500 mbar pressure range .",
    "the night - side vims profile of @xcite produces essentially no detectable absorption feature in this spectral region .",
    "it also produces excessive i / f values at thermal emission wavelengths because of its relatively low deep vmr ( for its assumed ratio of 0.135 ) .",
    "the spectral matches to the much smaller absorption feature near 2.9 are consistent with what is seen at longer reflected solar wavelengths .",
    "these results make a strong case for using both solar and thermal spectral regions in combination to constrain the vertical profile of phosphine .",
    "the 4.1  4.5 absorption band is evidently an important one for constraining on saturn , but has seen little use so far .    .",
    "all profiles assume a uniform deep vmr for @xmath20 and an exponential decline for @xmath21 with a to pressure scale height ratio of @xmath12 , with specific parameter values shown in the inset table . except for the @xcite vims - based profile ,",
    "all the profiles yield similar thermal emission spectra .",
    "but very large differences are seen at reflected solar wavelengths , which are sensitive to mixing ratios at lower pressures as well as higher pressures ( inset ) .",
    "note that the observed 4.3-band is measured to be more symmetric about 4.3 than our models indicate .",
    "[ fig : ph3specs],width=336 ]      disk - averaged values have been derived by a number of observers based on high spectral resolution observations that can resolve more distinctive spectral features of in the thermal emission range of saturn s spectrum and are thus probably less sensitive to different assumptions of ratios and less sensitive to assumed cloud properties .",
    "@xcite used iso / sws observations of the 8.1  11.3 spectrum to infer mixing ratios in the 100  600 mbar range , with a value of 6 ppm up to 600 mbar , 4 ppm at 250 mb , decreasing to 0.3 ppm at 150 mbar .",
    "these are plotted as open circles in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3profs ] . also shown there using a gray solid line is the profile inferred by @xcite from sub - mm thermal emission observations .",
    "the falloff of vmr with altitude is an expected result of photochemical destruction .",
    "although the falloff rate is not well defined , it is probably sharper than most of these profiles indicate .",
    "[ fig : vmr_vs_herat ] displays deep vmr values as a function of the ratio assumed in our analysis of the vims emission spectrum from the brightest region of the wake . also shown",
    "are independent determinations of the ratio from high - resolution 5-spectra by @xcite , from iso - sws spectra by @xcite , and from sub - mm spectra by @xcite .",
    "@xcite note that a 25% reduction in ( i.e. from 7.4 ppm to 5.6 ppm ) would be produced by a 2decrease in the assumed temperature at all pressures , which they noted would provide a slightly better fit for the 3 - 2 line .",
    "it would also provide better agreement with @xcite and @xcite .",
    "no specific error estimates were provided for the lellouch et al . and orton et al .",
    "we also show the @xcite result which is a disk - averaged result based on high - resolution groundbased observations of the 5-spectrum made in 1994 .",
    "also shown is cirs - based result of @xcite , which is an average of northern hemisphere latitudes from 10n to 70n .",
    "the latter two have error estimates , although there is considerable uncertainty as to how these results might differ if the authors had chosen different ratios in conducting their analyses .",
    "if taken at face value , these results suggest that the deep mixing ratio is not likely to be as low as seems to be required to match our vims results for ratios below @xmath00.045 .",
    "the results are quite different for arsine .",
    ", width=336 ]      arsine measurements are plotted in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : vmr_vs_herat ] .",
    "@xcite derived mixing ratios of 2.4@xmath22 ppb for the thermal component and 0.39@xmath23 ppb for the reflected solar component .",
    "the latter is probably representative of the effective value in the 200  400 mbar range where they inferred a haze layer , while the former applies to the deep mixing ratio . because we are using spectra with exceptionally high thermal emission values ,",
    "the reflected solar contribution at thermal emission wavelengths is not very important .",
    "in addition , even at its absorption peak the two - way @xmath24 = 1 level for is deeper than 1 bar .",
    "thus it is only the deep mixing ratio that is of interest here .",
    "@xcite inferred a value of 1.8@xmath25 ppb . these are more compatible with the values we derived from the lower values of the ratio .",
    "as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : vmr_vs_herat ] , the independent constraints on arsine suggest that the ratio should be less than 0.06 , while constraints suggested by measurements suggest values higher than 0.045 .",
    "the compromise value of 0.055 is plotted as the vertical dotted line in fig .",
    "[ fig : vmr_vs_herat ] .      selected independent measurements of saturn s ammonia mixing ratio profile",
    "are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ammonia ] .",
    "microwave observations provide sensitivity to the deep mixing ratio , and both @xcite and @xcite are in good agreement on a value of 400  600 ppm .",
    "@xcite also note a decline in the vmr at pressures less than 5 bars and a value of 70  110 ppm at 2 bars .",
    "this provides the basis for our sketched profile in fig .",
    "[ fig : ammonia ] .",
    "the 70  110 ppm estimate covers the pressure range most relevant for modeling saturn s 5-spectra .",
    "the cirs - based results of @xcite , shown as the dark gray bar in fig .  [ fig : ammonia ] , are closer to the profiles we used for the ratio of 0.064 , which is from @xcite and shown as the dashed curve . the nearby solid curve has the same deep mixing ratio , but follows the saturated vapor profile above the saturation level .",
    "the dot - dash curve traces the profile we used to suppress thermal emission in the model for = 0.135 .",
    "this is well above the global average values measured in the 2  3 bar range , and is perhaps the strongest argument against a ratio much greater than 0.06 , at least under the assumption that the clearest wake region does not contain a deep absorbing cloud . in a region of unusually high 5.1-brightness",
    "it would indeed be implausible to have much higher than normal levels of ammonia vapor .",
    "the profile we used to raise the i / f at 5.1 in the case of a ratio of 0.02 is not plotted here because ammonia had to be reduced to negligible levels in that case .",
    "an upper bound for that case remains to be determined .",
    "it is not clear what an implausible level would be for ammonia in an unusually clear region .",
    "downwelling motions of gas from above ( lower pressure than ) the 1 bar level could certainly depress the ammonia mixing ratio at deeper levels .",
    "an example of such an effect was observed by the galileo probe that entered an unusually clear region in jupiter s atmosphere at the edge of a 5-hot spot , where mixing ratios of several condensable gases were depressed by roughly an order of magnitude @xcite , presumably by downwelling motions .",
    "thus , a highly depressed ammonia abundance in what appear to be a saturnian `` hot band '' is quite plausible .",
    "an order of magnitude depletion could be obtained by mixing gas downward from the 1 bar level or above ( lower pressure ) .",
    "also relevant are 2.2-cm emission measurements from may 2011 @xcite , which showed that the wake region was becoming `` dried out '' with respect to ammonia vapor , supporting the conclusion that a depletion of clouds might be occurring , contradicting the idea that the region might have greater than average amounts of ammonia .",
    "the main message from consideration of ammonia constraints is that low values of the ratio are more plausible than high values .",
    "the remarkably uniform and 5-bright wake of saturn s great storm of 2010  2011 was investigated with the help of vims spectral images , using both reflected sunlight portions of the spectrum and that part dominated by thermal emission ( @xmath26 ) to constrain vertical cloud structure .",
    "our conclusions from this analysis can be summarized as follows .    1 .",
    "the wake region began with widespread appearance of absorption near 3 , was generally very dark at thermal emission wavelengths ( near 5 ) , with exceptions of local regions that were brighter at 5 than even before the beginning of the storm .",
    "the regions brightest near 5 were near the anticyclone that developed along with the convective storm feature .",
    "2 .   as time progressed the regions of high 5-brightness expanded longitudinally beginning near the middle of the wake region , eventually expanding latitudinally to cover the entire band from 29n to 39n , and all longitudes .",
    "in addition , by december 2012 , the band became remarkably uniform , with an rms deviation over longitude of only 2% in i / f at 5.12 in the middle of the band , and had similar latitudinal uniformity from 30n to 39n over most longitudes .",
    "3 .   before the storm began , vims spectra at the storm latitudes could be well fit using model structure with mainly just two cloud layers .",
    "in the 190  570 mbar range we inferred an upper layer of conservative particles of unknown composition and about 5  6 optical depths , which scatter as spheres with refractive index of n = 1.4 + 0i and particle radii slightly less than 1 . a second",
    ", deeper layer of partially absorbing cloud particles was needed to limit thermal emission .",
    "assuming an arbitrary single - scattering albedo of 0.95 , and a physically thin sheet cloud structure , we found that it needed to be near 1.5 bars and have an optical depth near 3 .",
    "applying our two - cloud model to the clear regions of the wake over time we found that the upper layer optical depth dropped by almost a factor of two initially , then slowly grew over time .",
    "the more significant effect was on the lower cloud that dropped its optical depth initially by a factor of four , reaching a factor of five decrease in december 2012 , reaching a minimum optical depth of 0.57 .",
    "5 .   while the above results indicate that the lower cloud never completely disappeared , the presence or absence of that cloud depends critically on the assumed value of the ratio and on what is assumed for mixing ratios of , and . for high values of the ratio ,",
    "either a significant cloud is required in the cleared regions or a significant increase in absorbing gas mixing ratios is required . for values less than 0.064 , the lower cloud is not required , but for very low ratios the atmosphere becomes so cold that the observed 5- emission can not be reached without significant reductions in gas absorptions .",
    "when we fit a one - cloud ( upper cloud ) model to the spectra for a range of ratios , allowing the profile to vary by a scale factor , we found that the best fit was at a ratio near 0.064 and a deep mixing ratio of 5 ppm .",
    "but , with more realistic adjustments of mixing ratios at just the higher pressures , and also including adjustments of and , we were able to expand the range of viable ratios .",
    "7 .   to limit the range of plausible ratios",
    ", we compared our adjusted gas profiles to independent measurements of those profiles , finding that observations suggest that the ratio should be greater than 0.05 , while observations suggest that the ratio should be less than 0.06 .",
    "a compromise value is 0.055 .",
    "ammonia limits suggest that the ratio should be less than 0.07 and greater than 0.02 .",
    "another factor is how well the various options fit the observed spectra .",
    "the best overall fit in the 4.5  5.15 region was obtained with = 0.02 , although that fit suppresses small spectral features below the level observed , while the fit with = 0.135 exaggerates those features and also produces a much worse overall fit , suggesting that a @xmath00.064 is a better choice . the best fits in the 2.1-region",
    "are obtained with = 0.02  0.064 . in the net ,",
    "fit quality favors values in the 0.02  0.064 range .",
    "if the broad clearing of the wake region is to be explained as a complete disappearance of lower cloud particles , and considering fit quality and all the independent constraints on absorbing gases , it appears that the ratio would need to be in the range of 0.055@xmath27 .",
    "we also showed that including reflected sunlight in the 4.1  4.5 absorption band enabled vims observations to provide strong constraints on the mixing ratio in the 100  1000 mbar region .",
    "our results in this region are roughly consistent with cirs - based results of @xcite , but disagree strongly with vims - based results of @xcite , by orders of magnitude in the 500 mbar region , where their deep pressure break - point and small scale height lead to much less .",
    "our scale height ratio to the pressure scale height , valid for the entire range of values we considered was in the range of 0.5  0.6 , compared to values @xmath00.2 for @xcite . to allow for a sharper photochemical cutoff above 100 mbar",
    ", we needed to increase the scale height even further to compensate for lost absorption above that level , leading to a profile similar to that inferred by @xcite , except for a somewhat lower upper break - point pressure .",
    "we identified spectral regions where persistent discrepancies between model and observed spectra suggest the possibility of missing or erroneous information in the trace gas line data .",
    "as indicated in fig .",
    "[ fig : emitmulti ] , the depth of the 4.74-absorption feature in models always exceeds the measured depth , and there is a small spectral absorption feature near 4.85 in the measured spectrum that is completely absent from model spectra .",
    "also , as indicated in fig .",
    "[ fig : ph3specs ] , the large 4.3-absorption feature is more asymmetric in models than in vims measurements , with models producing less absorption on the long wavelength side of the absorption maximum .",
    "it remains to be seen how long it will take for the wake region to return to the same state it had before the great storm began , or to return to a state of reduced 5-emission .",
    "the wake remained relatively uniform and bright at 5 into 2015 , although some dimming seems to be underway @xcite .",
    "analysis of its long term evolution beyond 2012 is left for future work .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through its cassini data analysis and participating scientists ( cdaps ) program under grant nnx15al10 g .",
    "we thank don banfield and an anonymous reviewer for their attention to detail and for providing many useful suggestions that improved the manuscript .      , j.  a. , sides , s.  c. , soltesz , d.  l. , sucharski , t.  l. , becker , k.  j. , 2004 .",
    "modernization of the integrated software for imagers and spectrometers . in : mackwell , s. , stansbery , e. ( eds . ) ,",
    "lunar and planetary science conference .",
    "35 of lunar and planetary science conference .",
    "p. 2039 .            ,",
    "n. , calcutt , s. , irwin , p. , temple , j. , 2008 .",
    "band parameters for self - broadened ammonia gas in the range 0.74 to 5.24 @xmath28 m to support measurements of the atmosphere of the planet jupiter .",
    "icarus 196 , 612624 .      , r.  h. , baines , k.  h. , bellucci , g. , bibring , j .-",
    ", buratti , b.  j. , capaccioni , f. , cerroni , p. , clark , r.  n. , coradini , a. , cruikshank , d.  p. , drossart , p. , formisano , v. , jaumann , r. , langevin , y. , matson , d.  l. , mccord , t.  b. , mennella , v. , miller , e. , nelson , r.  m. , nicholson , p.  d. , sicardy , b. , sotin , c. , 2004 .",
    "the cassini visual and infrared mapping spectrometer ( vims ) investigation .",
    "space sci .",
    "115 , 111168 .    , r.  a.  h. , sagui , l. , kleiner , i. , brown , l.  r. , 2006 . the absorption spectrum of phosphine ( ph@xmath29 ) between 2.8 and 3.7 @xmath28 m : line positions , intensities , and assignments .",
    "j. of molec .",
    "238 , 178192 .    , r.  n. , cruikshank , d.  p. , jaumann , r. , brown , r.  h. , stephan , k. , dalle ore , c.  m. , eric livo , k. , pearson , n. , curchin , j.  m. , hoefen , t.  m. , buratti , b.  j. , filacchione , g. , baines , k.  h. , nicholson , p.  d. , 2012 .",
    "the surface composition of iapetus : mapping results from cassini vims .",
    "icarus 218 , 831860 .        ,",
    "r. , gautier , d. , marten , a. , bzard , b. , hanel , r. , 1984 .",
    "the composition of saturn s atmosphere at northern temperate latitudes from voyager iris spectra - nh@xmath30 , ph@xmath30 , c@xmath2h@xmath2 , c@xmath2h@xmath31 , ch@xmath30d , ch@xmath5 , and the saturnian d / h isotopic ratio .",
    "287 , 899916 .      ,",
    "u.  a. , ingersoll , a.  p. , ewald , s.  p. , porco , c.  c. , fischer , g. , yair , y. , 2013 .",
    "saturn s visible lightning , its radio emissions , and the structure of the 2009 - 2011 lightning storms .",
    "icarus 226 , 10201037 .      , l.  n. , baines , k.  h. , momary , t.  m. , showman , a.  s. , irwin , p.  g.  j. , orton , g.  s. , m. , r. , merlit , c. , 2011 .",
    "saturn s tropospheric composition and clouds from cassini / vims 4.6 ",
    "5.1 @xmath28 m nightside spectroscopy .",
    "icarus 214 , 510533 .        ,",
    "t. , moses , j.  i. , conrath , b.  j. , 2009 .",
    "saturn : composition and chemistry . in : dougherty , m.  k. , esposito , l.  w. , krimigis , s.  m. ( eds . ) , saturn from cassini - huygens .",
    "springer , dordrecht , heidelberg , london , new york , pp .",
    "83112 .      ,",
    "d. , conrath , b. , flasar , m. , achterberg , r. , schinder , p. , kliore , a. , cassini cirs , radio science teams , 2006 .",
    "the helium to hydrogen ratio in saturn s atmosphere from cassini cirs and radio science measurement . in : 36th cospar scientific assembly .",
    "36 of cospar meeting .",
    "p. 867 .      ,",
    "r. , conrath , b. , flasar , f.  m. , kunde , v. , maguire , w. , pearl , j.  c. , pirraglia , j. , samuelson , r. , herath , l. , allison , m. , cruikshank , d.  p. , gautier , d. , gierasch , p.  j. , horn , l. , koppany , r. , ponnamperuma , c. , 1981 .",
    "infrared observations of the saturnian system from voyager 1 .",
    "science 212 , 192200 .",
    ", m.  a. , ingersoll , a.  p. , allison , m.  d. , gulkis , s. , laraia , a.  l. , baines , k.  h. , edgington , s.  g. , anderson , y.  z. , kelleher , k. , oyafuso , f.  a. , 2013 .",
    "saturn s thermal emission at 2.2-cm wavelength as imaged by the cassini radar radiometer .",
    "icarus 226 , 522535 .    , a.  a. , oinas , v. , 1991 . a description of the correlated - k distribution method for modelling nongray gaseous absorption , thermal emission , and multiple scattering in vertically inhomogeneous atmospheres . 96 , 90279064 .    ,",
    "a.  l. , ingersoll , a.  p. , janssen , m.  a. , gulkis , s. , oyafuso , f. , allison , m. , 2013 . analysis of saturn s thermal emission at 2.2-cm wavelength : spatial distribution of ammonia vapor .",
    "icarus 226 , 641654 .          , t.  b. , coradini , a. , hibbitts , c.  a. , capaccioni , f. , hansen , g.  b. , filacchione , g. , clark , r.  n. , cerroni , p. , brown , r.  h. , baines , k.  h. , bellucci , g. , bibring , j .-",
    "p . , buratti , b.  j. , bussoletti , e. , combes , m. , cruikshank , d.  p. , drossart , p. , formisano , v. , jaumann , r. , langevin , y. , matson , d.  l. , nelson , r.  m. , nicholson , p.  d. , sicardy , b. , sotin , c. , 2004 .",
    "cassini vims observations of the galilean satellites including the vims calibration procedure .",
    "icarus 172 , 104126 .    , e.  a. , klein , g. , juergens , d.  w. , mehaffey , k. , oseas , j.  m. , garcia , r.  a. , giandomenico , a. , irigoyen , r.  e. , hickok , r. , rosing , d. , sobel , h.  r. , bruce , c.  f. , flamini , e. , devidi , r. , reininger , f.  m. , dami , m. , soufflot , a. , langevin , y. , huntzinger , g. , 1996 .",
    "the visual and infrared mapping spectrometer for cassini . in : horn , l. ( ed . ) , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series .",
    "2803 of society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers ( spie ) conference series .",
    ". 206220 .    , t.  w. , baines , k.  h. , 2014 .",
    "the anticyclonic eye of the storm : evolution of saturn s great storm region and associated anticyclone as seen by cassini / vims . in : aas / division for planetary sciences",
    "meeting abstracts .",
    "46 of aas / division for planetary sciences meeting abstracts .",
    "p. # 422.11 .",
    ", t.  w. , baines , k.  h. , badman , s. , brown , r.  h. , buratti , b.  j. , clark , r.  n. , nicholson , p.  d. , sotin , c. , 2015 .",
    "the ongoing evolution of a long - lived anticyclone in saturn s great storm region as seen by cassini / vims . vol .",
    "47 of aas / division for planetary sciences meeting abstracts , # 311.19 .",
    ", h.  b. , atreya , s.  k. , carignan , g.  r. , donahue , t.  m. , haberman , j.  a. , harpold , d.  n. , hartle , r.  e. , hunten , d.  m. , kasprzak , w.  t. , mahaffy , p.  r. , owen , t.  c. , way , s.  h. , 1998 .",
    "the composition of the jovian atmosphere as determined by the galileo probe mass spectrometer .",
    "103 , 2283122846 .",
    ", g.  s. , serabyn , e. , lee , y.  t. , 2001 .",
    "erratum , volume 146 , number 1 , pages 48 - 59 ( 2000 ) , in the article `` vertical distribution of ph@xmath29 in saturn from observations of its 1 - 0 and 3 - 2 rotational lines , '' .",
    "icarus 149 , 489490 .",
    ", r.  g. , larson , h.  p. , caldwell , j.  j. , gautier , d. , 1984 .",
    "composition and chemistry of saturn s atmosphere . in : gehrels , t.  & matthews , m.",
    "s. ( ed . ) , saturn . univ . of arizona press , tucson , pp .",
    "88149 .    , l.  s. , gordon , i.  e. , barbe , a. , benner , d.  c. , bernath , p.  f. , birk , m. , boudon , v. , brown , l.  r. , campargue , a. , champion , j. , chance , k. , coudert , l.  h. , dana , v. , devi , v.  m. , fally , s. , flaud , j. , gamache , r.  r. , goldman , a. , jacquemart , d. , kleiner , i. , lacome , n. , lafferty , w.  j. , mandin , j. , massie , s.  t. , mikhailenko , s.  n. , miller , c.  e. , moazzen - ahmadi , n. , naumenko , o.  v. , nikitin , a.  v. , orphal , j. , perevalov , v.  i. , perrin , a. , predoi - cross , a. , rinsland , c.  p. , rotger , m. , imev ckov , m. , smith , m.  a.  h. , sung , k. , tashkun , s.  a. , tennyson , j. , toth , r.  a. , vandaele , a.  c. , vander auwera , j. , 2009 . the hitran 2008 molecular spectroscopic database .",
    "110 , 533572 .    ,",
    "a. , del ro - gaztelurrutia , t. , delcroix , m. , legarreta , j.  j. , gmez - forrellad , j.  m. , hueso , r. , garca - melendo , e. , prez - hoyos , s. , barrado - navascus , d. , lillo , j. , international outer planet watch team iopw - pvol , 2012 .",
    "ground - based observations of the long - term evolution and death of saturn s 2010 great white spot .",
    "icarus 220 , 561576 .    , k.  m. , dyudina , u.  a. , ewald , s.  p. , fischer , g. , ingersoll , a.  p. , kurth , w.  s. , muro , g.  d. , porco , c.  c. , west , r.  a. , 2013 .",
    "dynamics of saturn s great storm of 2010 - 2011 from cassini iss and rpws .",
    "icarus 223 , 460478 .            , g.  l. , eshleman , v.  r. , anderson , j.  d. , levy , g.  s. , lindal , g.  f. , wood , g.  e. , croft , t.  a. , 1982 . radio science with voyager 2 at saturn - atmosphere and ionosphere and the masses of mimas , tethys , and iapetus .",
    "science 215 , 553558 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> saturn s great storm of 2010  2011 produced a planet - encircling wake that slowly transitioned from a region that was mainly dark at 5 in february 2011 to a region that was almost entirely bright and remarkably uniform by december of 2012 . </S>",
    "<S> the uniformity and high emission levels suggested that the entire wake region had been cleared not only of the ammonia clouds that the storm had generated and exposed , but also of any other aerosols that might provide significant blocking of the thermal emission from saturn s deeper and warmer atmospheric layers . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis of vims wake spectra from december 2012 provides no evidence of ammonia ice absorption , but shows that at least one significant cloud layer remained behind : a non - absorbing layer of 3  4 optical depths ( at 2 ) extending from 150 to @xmath0400 mbar </S>",
    "<S> . a second layer of absorbing and scattering particles , with less than 1 optical depth and located near 1 bar , is also suggested , but its existence as a model requirement depends on what value of the ratio is assumed . </S>",
    "<S> the observations can be fit well with just a single ( upper ) cloud layer for a ratio @xmath10.064 in combination with a deep volume mixing ratio of 5 ppm . at lower ratios , </S>",
    "<S> the observed spectra can be modeled without particles in this region . at higher ratios , in order to fit the brightest wake spectrum , models must include either significant cloud opacity in this region , or significantly increased absorption by , , and . as the exceptional horizontal uniformity in the late wake </S>",
    "<S> is most easily understood as a complete removal of a deep cloud layer , and after considering independent constraints on trace gas mixing ratios , we conclude that the existence of this remarkable wake uniformity is most consistent with a he / h@xmath2 mixing ratio of 0.055@xmath3 , which is on the low side of the 0.038  0.135 range of previous estimates . </S>"
  ]
}