{
  "article_text": [
    "since the outbreak of the global hiv / aids pandemic in the early 1980s about 35 million people died from aids - related illnesses @xcite .",
    "although the annual number of new cases of hiv ( incidence ) has been decreasing globally , among men who have sex with men ( msm ) in developed countries incidence is increasing @xcite .",
    "the current public health challenge in these populations is effective triage of limited prevention resources .",
    "two recent advancements in hiv prevention science are relevant to this issue .",
    "first , new forms of highly active antiretroviral therapy ( haart ) are so effective that viral load in infected patients become undetectable and that patients on effective treatment are essentially non - infectious @xcite ; we will refer to this as the treatment as prevention ( tap ) modality .",
    "second , new treatments targeted at uninfected persons have been shown to reduce the rate of infection to nearly zero when treatment is adhered to @xcite , which is referred to as pre - exposure prophylaxis ( prep ) .",
    "we have therapies that are effective at both blocking transmissions from infected persons and protecting uninfected persons from becoming infected ; however , there is little consensus on how these technologies should be deployed @xcite .",
    "the main obstacle is that while the individual - level efficacy of these interventions can be ascertained with controlled trials , their effectiveness as public health interventions can not .",
    "this is due to the fact that populations are different from one another both in terms of the fundamental transmission dynamics of hiv , but also in the availability of prevention resources . identifying the optimal strategy of resource allocation",
    "must be based on a model of the underlying medical , biological , and social processes that captures the relevant features of the population .",
    "theoretical studies of intervention effectiveness are generally based on either state - space models represented by a system of ordinary differential equations ( ode ) ( often referred to as ",
    "models in the epidemiology literature , @xcite ) and agent - based models where large - populations of individuals with complex behavioral patters are directly simulated .",
    "the trade - off between these approaches exchanges verisimilitude in the agent - based formation for efficient computation in the compartmental formulation . due to the computational challenges in calculating optimal allocation strategies ,",
    "compartmental models are generally preferred @xcite . in this paper , we present a method for calculating the optimal allocation strategy for a hypothetical health agency in a major us city , which receives funding to set up a long - term hiv prevention program for msm in that city .",
    "our analysis is based on a compartmental model of hiv transmission that includes natural history of infection , dynamic risk behavior , and partner preference components . for the sake of simplicity",
    "we restrict the interventions the health agency can allocate resources to tap and prep .",
    "this in turn allows us to address the important question to which extent the investment into prep for msm should be scaled up in the future , which is an open question in hiv prevention policy .",
    "while this type of model is in widespread use , our approach to modeling the enrollment of infecteds and high - risk susceptible into art and prep , respectively , and our ability to find dynamic optimal resource allocation patterns over long time horizons is unique .    the described problem of determining the optimal allocation strategy can be formulated as an optimal control problem with a specific set of constraints .",
    "we developed an efficient numerical scheme to deal with this problem .",
    "the described approach is very general and can be applied to a wide class of optimization problems . to facilitate the reuse of the proposed scheme we provide a detailed description of all steps and indicate possible extensions and ramifications of the method . when solving optimal control problems , there are two classes of methods : _ indirect _ and _ direct _ ones .",
    "indirect methods employ the first - order optimality condition to formulate a two - point boundary - value problem for the system of @xmath0 hamiltonian equation , @xcite , which is solved , either analytically or numerically ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) . analytical solutions to these problems",
    "are available only for systems of low order and will not be treated here .",
    "the use of numerical schemes is however also restricted .",
    "numerical implementations of indirect methods are often numerically unstable and require a good initial guess which is in most cases not available , @xcite .",
    "furthermore , many non - standard constraints can not be addressed within the framework of the classical optimal control theory .",
    "this is in particular true for the problem considered in the paper .",
    "thus one has to resort to direct methods .",
    "direct methods attempt to directly minimize the cost function using constrained nonlinear programming . within the class of direct methods ,",
    "there are different possible approaches , most notable are _ shooting _ methods and _ simultaneous _ methods ( see @xcite ) . shooting methods",
    "parametrize the controls and use numerical simulation to obtain the solution of the system s equations on the whole interval ( single shooting ) or on a number of subintervals ( multiple shooting ) , @xcite .",
    "nonlinear programming is then used to optimize the control parameters while obeying the constraints .",
    "the multiple shooting method has proven to be very efficient for solving many practical problems .",
    "however , the necessity of numerical integration of system s equations makes this method very time consuming .",
    "simultaneous methods parametrize both the controls and the system s trajectory and determine the missing values of parameters by solving a ( typically ) large system of nonlinear algebraic equations .",
    "all unknown parameters are determined _ simultaneously _ thus giving the name to this class of methods .",
    "along with system s equations , one describes the constraints using the introduced parametrization .",
    "this is referred to as the _ transcription _ procedure .",
    "the optimal control problem is thus formulated as a large scale nonlinear optimization problem , @xcite .",
    "a modification of the latter method was employed in the paper .",
    "it was used it to compute a set of optimal allocation strategies for a particular scenario of hiv propagation for different parameters of the treatment .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : in section [ sec : model ] , a model of hiv propagation is derived and analyzed , section [ sec : oc - problem ] describes the optimal control problem of resource allocation for hiv treatment and prevention while section [ sec : oc - num ] describes the numerical scheme used to solve the optimal control problem .",
    "finally , section [ sec : results ] presents and analyzes the numerical results .",
    "we base our approach on a population balance model .",
    "this means that we divide the whole population of msm in the respective city into a number of groups .",
    "all individuals within a given group are assumed to be identical in their evolution .",
    "the state variables of the model correspond to the number of people within each group .",
    "these are described in table [ tab : notation ] , together with other important notation used throughout the paper .",
    "the dynamics of each state variable can be described by the following differential equation : @xmath1 where @xmath2 and @xmath3 describe the in- and out - flows . that is the number of people that enter or leave the respective group within the unit time interval .",
    "the disaggregation is based on whether an individual is infected and in which stage , what is his risk behavior , and whether he receives treatment and which one . in our model , the time unit",
    "is set equal to [ month ] .",
    ".notation used in the paper .",
    "the state variables have up to two indices . for variables with one index",
    "it indicates the risk status , for variables with two indices infectious stage and risk status are indicated .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < \" , ]     the trajectories of the controls are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : cntrl ] , the ones of the number of individuals in the various states in fig .",
    "[ fig : res1]-[fig : res3 ] .",
    "we can observe that the lower the value of @xmath4 is , the lower is the total number of newly infecteds and the higher is both the overall values of @xmath5 relative to @xmath6 and the number of individuals on prep .",
    "these two dependencies are to be expected as we try to optimize the allocation strategy of the agency in charge of fighting hiv in the considered city and this agency does not cover the long - term cost of prescribing prep , but only the enrollment costs .",
    "therefore , a lower @xmath4 should render the overall intervention more effective and the agency should become more prone to employ prep more intensively .    , @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 over 50 years.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]    for @xmath10 , elimination is nearly achieved , whereas for the other values of @xmath4 this is not the case .",
    "that is , only the value @xmath10 allows the agency to push the epidemic over the tipping point where the intervention leads to the infection cycle to break down .",
    "moreover , the difference in the number of infecteds over time is much more pronounced between the scenario with @xmath10 and the three scenarios with @xmath11 than between the three scenarios with @xmath11 .",
    "most extreme , the difference in the total number of infecteds is only 0.2 % between @xmath12 and @xmath13 .",
    "this is probably due to buffering effects also observed for other exogenous variables @xcite leading to a low influenceability of the system for these values of @xmath4 .",
    "since only the consequences unfolding over the 50 year period considered are taken into account by the cost function , the choice of how to allocate the resources to enrollment into tap and prep , respectively , becomes myopic to the end of the considered period .",
    "that is , for @xmath12 and @xmath13 resources are jammed into prep towards the end although letting the number of infecteds on treatment drop would ultimately backfire , i.e. , leading to number of infecteds higher than necessary after a while . the same effect with the roles of tap and prep switched can be observed for @xmath7 . moreover , since the number of infecteds or high - risk susceptibles declines over time when tap or prep is favored , successful enrollment into tap or prep , respectively , becomes more and more expensive , eventually favoring the other treatment .",
    "this can be observed for @xmath14 , @xmath7 , and @xmath8 . for @xmath9 ,",
    "tap is favored over prep the whole period except for the switch at the very end .",
    "it is therefore advantageous to modify the optimization problem to avoid such unrealistic results .",
    "however , as this reformulation is not always feasible , a possible remedy would be to to discard a period long enough at the end of the time interval for which the controls were optimized .",
    "there are two heuristic approaches to accomplish this : ( a ) calculating the costs for an only - prep and an only - tap strategy and determining when the last switch between these strategies in terms of which strategy incurs less costs ( normally there is only one ) takes place . the length of the period discarded is then chosen to be equal to the duration until this switch .",
    "( b ) running the optimization procedure on intervals of different length and checking whether the same type of strategy switch taking place at the same distance to the end of the respective calculation period occurs .",
    "if yes , this switch is an numerical artifact and needs to be discarded .    , @xmath15 , @xmath16 , and @xmath17 over 50 years.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]    , @xmath18 , @xmath19 , and @xmath20 over 50 years.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]     and @xmath21 over 50 years.,scaledwidth=80.0% ]      the described optimization problem",
    "was solved both using the multiple shooting ( not described in the paper ) and the orthogonal collocation methods . in general , the orthogonal collocations approach is about 3 - 5 times faster than the multiple shooting one seconds while for multiple shooting this time was about @xmath22 seconds .",
    "note that the computational time is strongly influenced by the length of the optimization interval and by the choice of the initial guess . ] .",
    "however , the latter typically provides a better result albeit the improvement never exceeds a fraction of percent .",
    "furthermore , with orthogonal collocations one may sometimes experience the situation when the program runs out of memory .",
    "this is overcome by a slight change of the initial guess .",
    "practice shows that it is in general advantageous to choose an initial guess that provides a low value of the cost function while violating constraints .",
    "sqp algorithm recovers from the constraints violation in a couple of steps while keeping the cost function relatively small . if on the contrary , one chooses the initial guess in order to satisfy the constraints , the deviation from the optimal value of the cost function may turn out to be rather large . as the convergence of the algorithm is rather slow , it may take unnecessary many steps to achieve the optimal value .",
    "the slow convergence of the algorithm is explained by the particular non - local structure of the budget constraints .",
    "since these constraints are computed along the to - be - optimized trajectory , any change of the control variables leads to the variation of the trajectory and thus to the re - computation of the constraints . as an example , a little change of the control during the first interval influences the budget constraints all over the whole optimization interval .    to speed up the computation the gradient of the cost function",
    "was supplied to the optimization algorithm .",
    "the hessians were computed numerically using centered finite differences due to the complexity of the respective analytical expressions .",
    "this paper presents a novel model describing an hiv propagation dynamics for a geographically concentrated msm population , along with two control actions .",
    "the two controls represent allocation of funding to the two major drug - based interventions available for hiv , haart / tap and prep , by an health agency . addressing this",
    "setting is of particular interest as it is heavily debated to which extent prep should enter the intervention portfolio of health care systems @xcite .",
    "a suitably modified orthogonal collocations method is applied to compute optimal control profiles for a realistic outbreak scenario in a large us city .",
    "hereby , the influence of the effective cost of prep on the optimal allocation strategy and the dynamics of the epidemic is studied , by varying a parameter governing said cost .",
    "the obtained results show that the allocation pattern heavily depends on the cost of prep , rendering prep the dominant intervention or not employed at all depending on said cost .",
    "moreover , whether elimination of hiv in the considered population is achievable also is dependent on the effective cost of prep .    currently , we work on improving the developed algorithm in order to introduce it into the epidemiological community . a manuscript aimed at a public health health audience illustrating use of these methods",
    "is currently prepared .",
    "10      sabina  s. alistar , douglas  k. owens , and margaret  l. brandeau . effectiveness and cost effectiveness of oral pre - exposure prophylaxis in a portfolio of prevention programs for injection drug users in mixed hiv epidemics .",
    ", 9(1):e86584 , 2014 .      jared  m. baeten , deborah donnell , patrick ndase , nelly  r. mugo , james  d. campbell , jonathan wangisi , jordan  w. tappero , elizabeth  a. bukusi , craig  r. cohen , and elly et .",
    "al . katabira .",
    "antiretroviral prophylaxis for hiv prevention in heterosexual men and women . , 367(5):399410 , august 2012 .",
    "steve  e. bellan , jonathan dushoff , alison  p. galvani , and lauren  ancel meyers .",
    "reassessment of hiv-1 acute phase infectivity : accounting for heterogeneity and study design with simulated cohorts .",
    ", 12(3):e1001801 , 2015 .",
    "chris beyrer , stefan  d baral , chris collins , eugene  t richardson , patrick  s sullivan , jorge sanchez , gift trapence , elly katabira , michel kazatchkine , owen ryan , andrea  l wirtz , and kenneth  h mayer . the global response to hiv in men who have sex with men .",
    ", 388(10040):198  206 , 2016 .",
    "susan blank , kathleen gallagher , kate washburn , and meighan rogers .",
    "reaching out to boys at bars : utilizing community partnerships to employ a wellness strategy for syphilis control among men who have sex with men in new york city .",
    ", 32:s65s72 , 2005 .",
    "myron  s. cohen , christopher dye , christophe fraser , william  c. miller , kimberly  a. powers , and brian  g. williams .",
    "treatment as prevention : debate and commentary .",
    "will early infection compromise treatment - as - prevention strategies ? , 9(7):e1001232 , 2012 .",
    "deborah donnell , jared  m baeten , james kiarie , katherine  k thomas , wendy stevens , craig  r cohen , james mcintyre , jairam  r lingappa , connie celum , partners in  prevention hsv / hiv transmission study  team , et  al .",
    "heterosexual hiv-1 transmission after initiation of antiretroviral therapy : a prospective cohort analysis .",
    ", 375(9731):20922098 , 2010 .",
    "jeffrey  w eaton , leigh  f johnson , joshua  a salomon , till brnighausen , eran bendavid , anna bershteyn , david  e bloom , valentina cambiano , christophe fraser , jan  ac hontelez , et  al .",
    "treatment as prevention : systematic comparison of mathematical models of the potential impact of antiretroviral therapy on hiv incidence in south africa .",
    ", 9(7):e1001245 , 2012 .",
    "d.  garg , m.  patterson , w.w .",
    "hager , a.v .",
    "rao , d.a .",
    "benson , and g.t .",
    "huntington . a unified framework for the numerical solution of optimal control problems using pseudospectral methods .",
    ", 46(11):18431851 , 2010 .        wassim  m haddad and vijaysekhar chellaboina .",
    "stability and dissipativity theory for nonnegative dynamical systems : a unified analysis framework for biological and physiological systems .",
    ", 6(1):3565 , 2005 .",
    "h.  irene hall , ruiguang song , philip rhodes , joseph prejean , qian an , lisa  m. lee , john karon , ron brookmeyer , edward  h. kaplan , matthew  t. mckenna , and robert  s. janssen .",
    "etimation of hiv incidence in the united states .",
    ", 300(5):520529 , 2008 .      c.  c. kerr , r.  m. stuart , r.  t. gray , a.  j. shattock , n.  fraser - hurt , c.  benedikt , m.  haacker , m.  berdnikov , a.  m. mahmood , s.  a. jaber , m.  gorgens , and d.  p. wilson .",
    "ptima : a model for hiv epidemic analysis , program prioritization , and resource optimization .",
    ", 69(3):365376 , jul 2015 .",
    "kenneth  k mugwanya , deborah donnell , connie celum , katherine  k thomas , patrick ndase , nelly mugo , elly katabira , kenneth ngure , and jared  m baeten .",
    "sexual behaviour of heterosexual men and women receiving antiretroviral pre - exposure prophylaxis for hiv prevention : a longitudinal analysis .",
    ", 13(12):10211028 , december 2013 .",
    "n.  punyacharoensin , w.  j. edmunds , d.  de  angelis , v.  delpech , g.  hart , j.  elford , a.  brown , o.  n. gill , and r.  g. white .",
    "effect of pre - exposure prophylaxis and combination hiv prevention for men who have sex with men in the uk : a mathematical modelling study .",
    ", 3(2):e94e104 , feb 2016 .",
    "eli  s. rosenberg , gregorio  a. millett , patrick  s. sullivan , carlos del  rio , and james  w. curran . modeling disparities in hiv infection between black and white men who have sex with men in the united states using the hiv care continuum .",
    ", 1(3):e112e118 , 2014 .",
    "a.  j. shattock , c.  c. kerr , r.  m. stuart , e.  masaki , n.  fraser , c.  benedikt , m.  gorgens , d.  p. wilson , and r.  t. gray . in the interests of time : improving hiv allocative efficiency modelling via optimal time - varying allocations .",
    ", 19(1):20627 , 2016 .",
    "david  a.m.c .",
    "van  de vijver , brooke  e. nichols , ume  l. abbas , charles  a.b .",
    "boucher , valentina cambiano , jeffrey  w. eaton , robert glaubius , katrina lythgoe , john mellors , andrew phillips , kim  c. sigaloff , and timothy  b. hallett .",
    "preexposure prophylaxis will have a limited impact on hiv-1 drug resistance in sub - saharan africa : a comparison of mathematical models .",
    ", 27(18):29432951 , november 2013 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper is about numerical control of hiv propagation . </S>",
    "<S> the contribution of the paper is threefold : first , a novel model of hiv propagation is proposed ; second , the methods from numerical optimal control are successfully applied to the developed model to compute optimal control profiles ; finally , the computed results are applied to the real problem yielding important and practically relevant results .    </S>",
    "<S> hiv , aids , highly active antiretroviral therapy , treatment as prevention , pre - exposure prophylaxis , optimal control , resource allocation </S>"
  ]
}