{
  "article_text": [
    "transliterations play an important role in multilingual entity reference resolution , because proper names increasingly travel between languages .",
    "this process tends to create a substantial number of out of vocabulary ( oov ) words in the multilingual analysis of news and social media .",
    "when  gangnam style \" topped the music charts of more than 30 countries , a word imported from korean suddenly became part of the language spoken by millions of people around the world .",
    "news events like the catastrophic failure at nuclear power plant bring words associated with new people and places (  fukushima `` ) across languages into common use .",
    "these words do not reside in standard vocabulary lexicons , but are generated as needed via a process of transliteration . detecting transliterated word pairs contributes to many language processing tasks , including entity resolution , translation , topic classification and sentiment analysis , as well as facilitates studying linguistic phenomenon like cross - language morphologic evolution .",
    "however , previous transliteration systems generally focus on a small number of language pairs .",
    "further , they only consider morphological similarity even in translation systems , creating a problem of ' ' false friends \" of word pairs which look / sound alike but mean different things .    in this paper , we target the problem of generating transliterations between arbitrary pairs of 69 languages , and detecting borrowed words and entities across these languages .",
    "we train both transliteration models and semantic word embeddings in an unsupervised manner using large - scale corpus from wikipedia . as an example , figure [ obama ] shows our transliterations of the name  _ obama _ into 25 non - latin scripts .",
    "we provide both our transliteration ( constructed from scratch ) and lowest edit - distance match appearing in 100,000 most frequent wikipedia lexicons for these languages .",
    "our closest match proves to equal the gold standard for 20 out of 23 languages where it appears in the lexicon .",
    "further , our constructed best differs from the gold standard name within at most one character substitution for 22 out of 25 languages .",
    "our major contributions are :    * _ training methods for transliteration _  we used wikipedia to build a training set for transliteration , starting from the cross - language links between personal and place names in wikipedia .",
    "we collect a dataset with 576,403 items contributing one or more transliterations from english to other languages yielding reasonable training and testing sets to learn transliterations .",
    "but this is a very dirty training set , because many such translation pairs are not transliterations ( e.g. _ estados unidos _ for _ united states _ ) .",
    "we develop unsupervised methods to distinguish true transliterations from false , and thus clean the training set .",
    "* _ accurate transliteration via substring matching _ ",
    "we use an expectation maximization approach to use statistics of string alignments to train improved cost matrices via a bayesian probability model .",
    "our methods employ substring matching instead of single - character transition matrices , enabling the recognition of phonemes , character bigrams , and beyond .",
    "+ we have trained models that permit us to construct transliterations for any string between all pairs of 69 languages .",
    "we evaluate our work against a recently - published transliteration system @xcite which has been integrated into the moses statistical machine translation system .",
    "we compare our transliteration to moses on the four languages it supports ( arabic , chinese , hindi , and russian ) , outperforming it in 61 of 64 standards over the set of languages . *",
    "_ distinguishing translations from false friends _  similarly spelled or sounding words can have substantially different meanings .",
    "such pairs that span language boundaries are called false friends , e.g. _ ropa _ in spanish means _ clothes _ , not _ rope)_. by coupling transliteration pair analysis with semantic tests using distributed word embeddings , we can generate comprehensive lexicons of true and false friends .",
    "our methods get very good results in tests against human annotated standards for french ( f1=0.890 ) and spanish ( f1=0.825 ) . +",
    "we use our approach to generate lexicons of true and false friends between english and 69 languages .",
    "we show that the lexically - closest cohort of word pairs has a higher probability of being true friends than words that are more lexically distant in 68 out of 69 languages , indicating our methods provide a good signal to identify borrowed words .",
    "we provide a demo that can transliterate any english string to non - latin languages .",
    "our transliteration code , corpora , weight matrices , and false - friend lexicons for all 69 languages will be made publicly available upon acceptance of this paper .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "we review related work in section [ related - work ] . in section [ data - collection ] , we describe the procedure of collecting data . section [ training - model ] talks about our model of learning character - based transliteration cost matrices .",
    "we analyze the performance of our model in section [ results - section ] .",
    "section [ friend - detection ] discusses the application of detecting true and false friends .",
    "finally , we conclude with discussion and ideas for future work .",
    "transliteration research first associates with the field of orthographic similarity detections since sound similarities co - exist with orthographic similarities @xcite .",
    "this work shows reasonableness of character - based transliteration between close languages ( i.e. languages sharing characters ) but does not discuss on distant language pairs .    similarly , work on cognate identification",
    "also focus on close language pairs @xcite .",
    "however , we believe multilingual transliterations contribute to even distant languages ( e.g. english and japanese ) when handling oov words and resolving ambiguities .",
    "further transliteration researches divide into two branches .",
    "one tries to study delicate sound changing rules of specific languages @xcite .",
    "especially , an excellent ideas of using wikipedia external links is proposed in @xcite and achieve promising results in english - hebrew transliteration using moses @xcite .",
    "however , all these systems are supervised and require extra linguistic background knowledge during processing .",
    "plus , only one among this work evaluates transliteration on up to 4 languages and it is hard to generalize for multiple languages .",
    "the other branch learns from only sequence of characters .",
    "one of the great advantages against sound based transliteration is that multilingual texts are much easier to obtain .",
    "compares phonetic based systems with spelling based systems on transliterations between english and arabic .",
    "makes transliteration model based on similar spelling rules in close languages .",
    "recent work of is integrated in moses as a module , providing an unsupervised character - based transliteration training model .",
    "proposed a proper name transliteration model on several language pairs .",
    "however , we believe utilizing character - based transliteration model can provide us with even more valuable information in natural language processing tasks .",
    "inspire us to use wikipedia external links to build an aligned multilingual corpus .",
    "however , their work requires language - specific knowledge , for instance , discarding vowels and filtering out junk data using pre - defined consonant matching . in our task",
    ", we use the names of entities ( people and places ) to create a training set for transliteration .",
    "@xcite state that over 40% of the brands choose to create corresponding foreign names via transliterations , by querying freebase in categories containing 3,388,225 entries , we create a precise multilingual transliteration dictionary through wikipedia page titles .",
    "we then perform a rough clean up procedure to ( 1 ) unify punctuation by converting hyphens , dots , comma to underscores and , ( 2 ) remove entries which do not adhere to the ( first name , last name ) or whole name format our final collection contains 576,403 english entries with multilingual mapping .    as an additional resource",
    ", we query google translation api to get formal translations of certain english proper nouns to all 69 languages . to reduce machine translation error , we manually pick 1,373 entities without no multi - sense ambiguities from the names of people @xcite , countries and capital cities @xcite , resulting in more than 70,000 pairs of proper name transliteration from english .",
    "table [ cs ] shows statistics of final data size in each language .",
    "80% of the final data will be used for training , 10% is for tuning and the remaining 10% is for testing .",
    ".languages with the largest and smallest set of translated entities , i.e. reflecting the availability of training data . [ cols= \" > ,",
    "> , > , > \" , ]     our methods yield substantial agreement with these published standards , demonstrating the general soundness of our approach .          emboldened by these results",
    ", we performed a search for lexically / semantically similar words between english and all 69 of our transliterated languages .",
    "the results appear in table [ truefriends ] . for each language , we report the number of false friends we identify ( column n ) .",
    "the other three columns reflect different notions of true friends : single - word translations according to google ( tp ) , near neighbors in embedding test ( ep ) , and those which survive both of these semantic tests ( b ) .    without a language - specific analysis of each of the classes , it is difficult to determine which of these reflect language borrowings most accurately .",
    "the quality of the word embeddings vary substantially by language , as does the quality of google s translation support .",
    "our preferred measure of quality is the ratio of word pairs which survive both tests",
    "( b ) over all that having google translations ( b+tp ) .",
    "the 33 languages colored red and green all have a ratio of @xmath0 , indicating the highest quality embeddings .",
    "the red languages denote the five with the best embeddings , with the poorest five ( in yellow ) reflect languages with excessively small training data ( amharic and khmer ) .",
    "our methods have a particularly difficult time with vietnamese , which bases a misleading similarity to latin languages at the character level .",
    "figure [ plot ] provides a deeper assessment of our cross - language scan . for each language",
    ", we identified which words in its 100,000 word vocabulary were lexically very similar ( edit distance @xmath1 , which is decided by initial value of substitution ) to a word in the english vocabulary .",
    "we then considered the next closest 10,000 word pairs , which should also be enriched in real transliterations ( by contrast , only 0.01% random word pairs have a translation link )  but less enriched than the initial cohort .",
    "indeed , figure [ plot ] ( left ) shows this to be true for 68 of 69 languages , denoted by points in the upper left triangle .    to establish that our embedding test accurately eliminates false friends",
    ", we pruned the lower half of each cohort according to the embedding test , i.e. retained only those words whose distance in embedding space was below the median value .",
    "figure [ plot ] ( right ) shows that this action dramatically shifts each language up and to the right . with the exception of three outlier languages ( vietnamese , latin , and maltese ) , well over 50% of our closest cohort are now true friends ( translations ) . for somewhat more than half of the languages ,",
    "the lexicographically second cohort is now rich in true friends to the 50% level .",
    "in this paper , we have developed transliteration models that accurately identify borrowed out of vocabulary ( oov ) words , for 69 different languages .",
    "we have evaluated our transliterations against published gold standards when available and against intrinsic measures when such standards are not available .",
    "further , we demonstrated that adding word embeddings to provide a semantic test enables us to distinguish true borrowings from false friends .",
    "there are several directions to improve the future quality of our transliteration model :    * _ phonetic information _ ",
    "our models improve with additional training data , particularly for resource - poor languages . an exciting way to increase this volume would be aligning speech translations as represented in a phonetic dictionary or sound system ( e.g. ipa ) as suggested in @xcite . * _ multiple transliteration _ ",
    "though english wikipedia has the richest resources in the world , it is not guaranteed that english is the source language of borrowed names .",
    "currently we employ a star network of transliteration pairs centered through english . a richer graph with other important languages (",
    "e.g. russian and chinese ) would improve performance .",
    "* _ longer - range dependencies _  as we target transliteration , our model should utilize longer range dependencies .",
    "observe that a silent e at the end of english words changes the pronunciation of vowels earlier in the word , so the  li \" is different in  lit \" and  like \" . under context",
    "the moses system with optimization exploits such phenomena , but we believe with we can learn such pronunciation features from the text itself .",
    "this research was partially supported by nsf grants dbi-1060572 and iis-1017181 , and a google faculty research award .",
    "nasreen abduljaleel and leah  s larkey . 2003 .",
    "statistical transliteration for english - arabic cross language information retrieval . in _ proceedings of the twelfth international conference on information and knowledge management _ , pages 139146 .",
    "yaser al - onaizan and kevin knight .",
    "machine transliteration of names in arabic text . in _ proceedings of the acl-02 workshop on computational approaches to semitic languages _ , pages 113 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "roger boada , rosa sanchez - casas , jose  m gavilan , jose  e garcia - albea , and natasha tokowicz .",
    "effect of multiple translations and cognate status on translation recognition performance of balanced bilinguals .",
    ", 16(01):183197 .",
    "ondrej bojar , christian buck , christian federmann , barry haddow , philipp koehn , johannes leveling , christof monz , pavel pecina , matt post , herve saint - amand , et  al .",
    "findings of the 2014 workshop on statistical machine translation . in _ proceedings of the ninth workshop on statistical machine translation _ , pages 1258 .",
    "association for computational linguistics baltimore , md , usa .        mauro cettolo , christian girardi , and marcello federico . 2012 .",
    "wit3 : web inventory of transcribed and translated talks . in _ proceedings of the 16th conference of the european association for machine translation ( eamt ) _ , pages 261268 .",
    "june  np francis , janet  py lam , and jan walls . 2002 .",
    "the impact of linguistic differences on international brand name standardization : a comparison of english and chinese brand names of fortune-500 companies . , 10(1):98116 .",
    "gumwon hong , min - jeong kim , do - gil lee , and hae - chang rim . 2009 .",
    "a hybrid approach to english - korean name transliteration . in _ proceedings of the 2009 named entities workshop : shared task on transliteration _ , pages 108111 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "diana inkpen , oana frunza , and grzegorz kondrak .",
    "2005 . automatic identification of cognates and false friends in french and english . in _ proceedings of the international conference recent advances in natural language processing _ , pages 251257 .",
    "jagadeesh jagarlamudi and hal daum  iii .",
    "2012 . regularized interlingual projections : evaluation on multilingual transliteration . in",
    "_ proceedings of the 2012 joint conference on empirical methods in natural language processing and computational natural language learning _ , pages 1223 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "amit kirschenbaum and shuly wintner .",
    "lightly supervised transliteration for machine translation . in _ proceedings of the 12th conference of the european chapter of the acl ( eacl 2009 ) _ , pages 433441 .",
    "association for computational linguistics , march .",
    "amit kirschenbaum and shuly wintner .",
    "a general method for creating a bilingual transliteration dictionary . in _ proceedings of the seventh conference on international language resources and evaluation ( lrec10 )",
    "_ , pages 273276 .",
    "european language resources association ( elra ) , may .",
    "philipp koehn , hieu hoang , alexandra birch , chris callison - burch , marcello federico , nicola bertoldi , brooke cowan , wade shen , christine moran , richard zens , et  al . 2007 .",
    "moses : open source toolkit for statistical machine translation . in _ proceedings of the 45th annual meeting of the acl on interactive poster and demonstration sessions _ , pages 177180 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "grzegorz kondrak and bonnie dorr .",
    "identification of confusable drug names : a new approach and evaluation methodology . in",
    "_ proceedings of the 20th international conference on computational linguistics _",
    ", page 952 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "gideon  s mann and david yarowsky . 2001 .",
    "multipath translation lexicon induction via bridge languages . in _ proceedings of the second meeting of the north american chapter of the association for computational linguistics on language technologies _ , pages 18 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "matt post , chris callison - burch , and miles osborne .",
    "2012 . constructing parallel corpora for six indian languages via crowdsourcing . in _ proceedings of the seventh workshop on statistical machine translation _",
    ", pages 401409 .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "michel simard , george  f foster , and pierre isabelle .",
    "1993 . using cognates to align sentences in bilingual corpora . in _ proceedings of the 1993 conference of the centre for advanced studies on collaborative research : distributed computing - volume 2 _ , pages 10711082 .",
    "ibm press .",
    "prayut suwanvisat and somboon prasitjutrakul .",
    "thai - english cross - language transliterated word retrieval using soundex technique . in _ proceesings of the national computer science and engineering conference , bangkok , thailand_.      paola virga and sanjeev khudanpur . 2003 .",
    "transliteration of proper names in cross - lingual information retrieval . in _ proceedings of the acl 2003 workshop on multilingual and mixed - language named entity recognition - volume 15 _ , pages 5764 .",
    "association for computational linguistics ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> transliterations play an important role in multilingual entity reference resolution , because proper names increasingly travel between languages in news and social media . </S>",
    "<S> previous work associated with machine translation targets transliteration only single between language pairs , focuses on specific classes of entities ( such as cities and celebrities ) and relies on manual curation , which limits the expression power of transliteration in multilingual environment .    </S>",
    "<S> by contrast , we present an unsupervised transliteration model covering 69 major languages that can generate good transliterations for arbitrary strings between any language pair . </S>",
    "<S> our model yields top-(1 , 20 , 100 ) averages of ( 32.85% , 60.44% , 83.20% ) in matching gold standard transliteration compared to results from a recently - published system of ( 26.71% , 50.27% , 72.79% ) . </S>",
    "<S> we also show the quality of our model in detecting true and false friends from wikipedia high frequency lexicons . </S>",
    "<S> our method indicates a strong signal of pronunciation similarity and boosts the probability of finding true friends in 68 out of 69 languages . </S>"
  ]
}