{
  "article_text": [
    "a fundamental ingredient of almost every biological process is molecular recognition , which is widely observed in interaction systems like protein - protein , receptor - ligand , antigen - antibody , dna - protein , rna - ribosome , etc@xcite .",
    "understanding the basis for molecular recognition requires the full characterization of binding process which involves noncovalent bonding effect and biomolecular thermodynamics . among all the factors ,",
    "biomolecular conformation energy is of great importance@xcite .",
    "it is found that changes in protein conformational entropy can contribute significantly to the free energy of protein - ligand association@xcite .",
    "internal dynamics of the protein calmodulin varies significantly on binding a variety of target domains .",
    "the apparent change in the corresponding conformational entropy is linearly related to the change in the overall binding entropy .",
    "also , conformational entropy of protein side - chain is a major effect in the energetics of folding .",
    "the entropy of heterogeneous random coil or denatured proteins is significantly higher than that of the folded native state tertiary structure . in particular ,",
    "the conformational entropy of the amino acid side chains in a protein is thought to be a major contributor to the energetic stabilization of the denatured state and thus a barrier to protein folding .",
    "the reduction in the number of accessible main chain and side - chain conformation when a protein folds into a compact globule yields an unfavourable entropic effect .",
    "this reduction in conformational entropy counters the hydrophobic effect favoring the folded state and in part explains the marginal stability of most globular proteins .    even thought biomolecular conformation energy is a key property to understand a wide variety of physical , chemical , and biochemical phenomena , its evaluation or calculation is very challenging both experimentally and theoretically . only recently ,",
    "nmr relaxation methods for characterizing thermal motions on the picosecond - nanosecond ( ps - ns ) timescale is developed and the resulting order parameters is used as a proxy for conformational entropy evaluation@xcite .",
    "atomic force microscopy ( afm ) for unfolding has great potential in measuring the backbone conformational entropy for protein folding@xcite .",
    "neutron spectroscopy is also used to elucidate the role of conformational entropy upon thermal unfolding by observing the picosecond motions , which are dominated by side - chain reorientation and segmental movements of flexible polypeptide backbone regions@xcite .",
    "the computational estimation of conformation energy is a long - standing problem and one of challenges in computational chemistry@xcite .",
    "generally , the calculation of conformational entropy requires a fully understanding of biomolecular configuration spaces .",
    "various simulation techniques , including harmonic analysis , molecular dynamics ( md ) , monte carlo simulation , normal mode analysis and so on , are all employed to explore the configuration spaces@xcite .",
    "traditionally , the simulation data is processed by the quasiharmonic analyses@xcite .",
    "more specifically , a special variance matrix for the biomolecular conformations can be defined and analyzed with principal component analysis ( pca ) .",
    "conformation entropies are then evaluated from the eigenvalue and eigenvector information from pca . however , for macromolecules , quasiharmonic analyse can be computationally demanding . and the employment of the cartesian coordinates representation makes it very inefficient for bond rotation characterization@xcite . moreover , it is found that , for biomolecular systems with multiple occupied energy wells , quasiharmonic approximation tends to overestimate their configurational entropy , and with cartesian coordinates , the errors tend to be magnified@xcite .",
    "characterization of biomolecular conformations by some structural parameters has been proposed to estimate the conformational entropy@xcite .",
    "particularly , backbone dihedral angles and side chain rotamers are widely used structural measurements for protein conformational entropy evaluation .",
    "the entropy value depends on the probability of the occupancy of the particular structure . by the assumption that amino acids distributions in the native state of proteins are comparable to that found in the denatured state , stites and pranata@xcite proposed a way to evaluate the relative conformation entropies for different amino acids .",
    "they analyze the preferred distribution of amino acid residues by systematically studying about twelve thousand residues from sixty - one nonhomologous and high - resolution protein crystal structures .",
    "a ramachandran plot of @xmath0 angles for various amino acid residues are obtained and the conformation entropies are evaluated through a discretization of angle distribution by an uniformed grid size .",
    "the dihedral angle and sid - chain rotamer based parameterization has been widely used in biomolecular conformation entropy estimation@xcite .",
    "the above - mentioned dihedral - angle based entropy evaluation method usually involves a discretization of angle distributions and it is found that the calculated entropy values are sensitive to the grid size@xcite .",
    "it is simply true that when the grid is very fine or dense , angles with similar values can be classified into different categories .",
    "in contrast , when the grid is very coarse , even angles with large variation can still be classified into a same category .",
    "therefore , dramatically different entropy values can be obtained from the same data under different discretization .",
    "an example can be found in figure [ fig : entropy_problem ] .",
    "however , it has also been pointed out that correlation coefficients between entropies computed from different meshes are very high , suggesting that mesh - related bias does not systematically alter relative entropy values@xcite . but this consistence is highly related to the studied systems . simply speaking , for each ramachandran plot ,",
    "only the same type of amino acide is considered thus the angle is highly concentrated in a particulary area instead of scattering over a wide range .",
    "researchers have realized that a lack of a robust classification poses challenge to a rigorous estimation of the entropies .",
    "recently , a k - mean clustering method is proposed to deliver an optimized discrete k - state classification model@xcite . in this method , the distribution of torsional angles are naturally classified in to @xmath1 clusters with irregular boundaries . in this way",
    ", it achieves an optimized classification and a high silhouette value , indicating very good quality of clustering , is obtained . in this paper , we propose a multiscale persistent function for biomolecular structure characterization and conformation entropy evaluation .",
    "our multiscale persistent function is based on two major methods , i.e. , persistent homology and flexibility rigidity index ( fri ) .",
    "persistent homology is deeply rooted in algebraic topology but finds great potential in the simplification of complex data @xcite .",
    "unlike the traditional topological method , persistent homology provides a multiscale topological representation .",
    "it is able to embed a geometric measurement into topological invariants and provides a bridge between geometry and topology .",
    "the essence of persistent homology is filtration . by the consistent variation of a certain filtration parameter ,",
    "a series of topological spaces from various scales are generated . during the filtration , topological invariants , i.e.",
    ", betti numbers , will be generated and further continue or persist for some time .",
    "this life length or persistent time gives a relative geometric measurement of the associated topological properties .",
    "persistent homology finds great success in topological characterization identification and analysis ( cia ) and has been used in a variety of fields , including shape recognition @xcite , network structure @xcite , image analysis @xcite , data analysis @xcite , chaotic dynamics verification @xcite , computer vision @xcite and computational biology @xcite .",
    "recently , we have introduced persistent homology for structure characterization and mathematical modeling of fullerene molecules , proteins and other biomolecules @xcite .",
    "consistent barcode patterns are extracted and defined as molecular topological fingerprint ( mtf ) , which is used in the analysis of protein flexibility and protein folding @xcite .",
    "we have also developed multiresolution and multidimensional persistence @xcite .",
    "flexibility rigidity index is originally proposed to study the flexibility and dynamic modes of biomolecules , particularly for the prediction of debye - walter factors or b - factors@xcite .",
    "the basic assumptions of the fri method is that biomolecular structure is the equilibrium state determined by interactions within the structure .",
    "simply speaking , if two atoms or residues are close to each other,general interaction \" between them will be relatively strong .",
    "if they are far from each other ,  general interaction \" will be relatively week . in this way",
    ", a distance - based monotonically - decreasing function is chosen to describe the particle - particle interactions@xcite . here",
    "a particle can be an atom , a residue or a certain domain .",
    "a rigidity index is defined on each particle as the summation all of interactions between this particular particle and all the others . and",
    "flexibility index defined as the reciprocal of rigidity index is found to be linearly proportional to the experimental b - factors .",
    "more interestingly , our flexibility index can also be viewed as the closeness centrality in graph theory .",
    "the physical insight is that atoms located in the center will tend to have more neighbors thus more rigid , while atoms located far from the center will have less companions thus less rigid and more flexible .",
    "a rigidity function can be constructed to simulate the biomolecular density @xcite .",
    "the essential idea of our multiscale persistent functions is the combination of persistent homology analysis with our multiscale rigidity function , to construct a series of multiscale persistent functions , particularly multiscale persistent entropies , for structure characterization . unlike the previous persistent entropy or topological entropy@xcite",
    ", we incorporate a resolution parameter into our rigidity function and delivers a topology based multiscale entropy model .",
    "based on the density filtration , our method incorporates in it a classification scheme .",
    "the classification results are reflected in @xmath2 barcodes , and are further used in persistent entropy@xcite calculation .",
    "we have systematically compared our entropy model with the traditional model with fixed grid sizes and found that similar results can only be obtained in two extreme situations , i.e. , the grid size and resolution parameter value are very small or very large . in the middle range ,",
    "different results are obtained as our classification is different .",
    "our method is tested for protein structure classification .",
    "we found that it is able to deliver a very nice classification of all - alpha , all - beta and mixed alpha and beta proteins .",
    "the all - alpha and all - beta proteins are dramatically different and can be clearly separated by their conformation entropies .",
    "the mixed alpha and beta proteins have both alpha - helix and beta - sheet secondary structures .",
    "their entropies are largely distributed between the border of all - alpha and all - beta entropies .",
    "the results are comparable with our previous ones from machine learning method @xcite .",
    "more interestingly , based on our multiscale persistent entropy , a protein structure index ( psi ) is proposed to describe the  regularity \" of protein structures .",
    "the essential idea of psi is to evaluate disorderliness in the angle distributions .",
    "simply speaking , for a highly  regular \" structure element like alpha - helix , its dihedral and bond angles are very consistent thus contribute very little to the total entropy . loops and intrinsically disorder regions are extremely  irregular \" in terms of dihedral and bond angles and tend to contribute a large weight in the total entropy . in this way , through the entropy evaluation , psi is able to provide a new way of structure regularity characterization .",
    "essentially , psi can be used to describe the regularity information in any systems .",
    "the paper is organized as following , section [ sec : theory ] is devoted to method introduction .",
    "we give a brief introduction of conformation entropy in section [ sec : conformation_entropy ] . in this section , the discrete representation of protein structure and angle - based conformation entropy evaluation",
    "are discussed .",
    "multiscale rigidity function is introduced in section [ sec : multiscale_rigidity_function ] .",
    "rigidity function is essentially a continuous version of rigidity index , and our multiscale representation is achieved through tuning a resolution parameter . the persistent homology analysis ,",
    "is reviewed in section [ sec : pha ] , which includes the basic theory of simplicial complex , filtration , complex construction and persistence . section [ sec : mph ] is devoted for the multiscale persistent homology and multiscale persistent functions .",
    "we propose a density based filtration over the multiscale rigidity function and define various functions on the persistent barcodes .",
    "the multiscale persistent entropy is discussed with great details .",
    "finally , the application of our model can be found in section [ sec : application ] .",
    "a classification of various protein structures including all - alpha , all - beta , mixed alpha and beta , are studied in section [ sec : classification ] .",
    "section [ sec : protein_index ] is devoted for the description of protein structure index ( psi ) .",
    "the paper ends with a conclusion .",
    "entropy is proposed for the characterization of disorderlyness of a system@xcite .",
    "it measures the freedom of a system to evolve into various potential configurations .",
    "entropy is the key property to understand a wide variety of physical , chemical , and biochemical phenomena .",
    "it plays very important roles in various biomolecular structures and interactions including protein folding , protein - protein interaction , protein - ligand binding , chromosome configuration , dna translation and transcription , etc .",
    "for instance , the folding of a single peptide chain into a well - defined native structure is greatly facilitated by the reduction of its conformation entropy .",
    "therefore , conformation entropy calculation is of essential importance in computational chemistry , biophysics and biochemistry .",
    "the evaluation of the entropy necessitates a characterization of biomolecular configuration spaces . due to the limitation of cartesian grid based representation , structural parameters , particulary",
    "dihedral angles and bond anlges , are usually employed for structure description .",
    "their distributions can be derived from various computational methods , including molecular dynamics , monte carlo simulation , normal mode analysis , etc .",
    "various microstates can be obtained by the discretization of the angle distribution , usually through a equal - spacing grid . and",
    "conformation entropy can be evaluated by using the classic shannon entropy form . even though it is suggested that the relative entropy is consistent in this procedural",
    ", a lack of a robust classification still poses challenge to a rigorous estimation of the entropie . in this section , multiscale",
    "persistent analysis and multiscal persistent functions for biomolecular structure characterization and conformation entropy evaluation are introduced .",
    "this methodology is founded on two major methods , i.e. , persistent homology and flexibility rigidity index .",
    "the great details will be given in the following sections .",
    "but before that , a brief review of the conformation entropy is given firstly .      in physics ,",
    "the second law of thermodynamics states that the total entropy of an isolated system always increases .",
    "this law also leads to the clausius thermodynamic definition of entropy as following : @xmath3 here @xmath4 is the amount of heat absorbed by the system . for a real biomolecular system ,",
    "this definition of entropy is too abstract and hard to implement .",
    "normally , a direct calculation of entropy is based on the boltzmann - gibbs - planck ( bgp ) expression @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the boltzmann constant and @xmath7 is the probability distribution function . if the potential function of a biomolecule can be modeled as @xmath8 , probability function will be linearly proportional to @xmath9 , i.e , @xmath10",
    ". however , eq.[eq : entropy_integration ] brings challenges in practical biomolecular simulation .",
    "this is largely due to the enormous complexity of conformation space and potential function for biomolecules .    to be able to evaluate the entropy",
    ", researchers adopt a fundamental assumption that entropy can be divided into several components@xcite . in this way",
    ", protein folding and binding entropy can be divided into protein contribution @xmath11 and solvent contribution @xmath12 .",
    "further , protein contribution can be subdivided into conformation entropy @xmath13 , rotational entropy @xmath14 and translation entropy @xmath15 .    [ cols=\"^ \" , ]     [ tab : protein_index ]",
    "in this paper , we discuss our multiscale persistent homology analysis , particulary multiscale persistent functions .",
    "the multiscale persistent homology analysis is based on two methods , i.e. , multiscale rigidity function and persistent homology .",
    "the rigidity function is essential to a continuous version of rigidity index .",
    "it incorporate in it the multiscale information by turning a resolution parameter in kernel functions .",
    "further , multiscale barcode representation of the data can be achieved by a density filtration over these multiscale rigidity functions .",
    "multiscale persistent functions can be defined on these barcode spaces .",
    "we discuss a particulary function , i.e. , persistent entropy , and illustrate its applications in protein structure classification and protein structure index representation .",
    "there are several distinguished characteristics of our multiscale persistent entropy .",
    "firstly , we naturally divide the data into several groups .",
    "this subdivision is based on the general topological features of the elements , i.e . , ( @xmath16 , @xmath17 ) angle points .",
    "secondly , the classification information is embedded into our @xmath2 barcodes .",
    "essentially , each @xmath2 is a cluster in the data and the barlength represents the size of the cluster .",
    "it needs to be pointed out that our barcode based clustering is comparable with other methods , such as , k - mean methods@xcite , spectral graph theory@xcite , etc . in this sense , the topological entropy obtained in some special kernels and scales , can be similar to the results from the other clustering methods",
    ". however , topological entropies defined from high dimensional @xmath18 barcodes are dramatically different from all the previous methods .",
    "it should be noticed that topological invariants are able to describe the global structure information , and only persistent homology is able to characterize topological invariant with a geometric measurement , i.e. , persistence . in this way",
    ", high dimensional barcode based topological entropies will be able to provide more interesting intrinsic topological information of the structure",
    ". this will be our future research topics .",
    "this work was supported in part by ntu sug - m4081842.110 .",
    "the author zhiming li thanks the chinese scholarship council for the financial support no .",
    "201506775038 .",
    "r.  baron , p.  h hunenberger , and j.  a. mccammon .",
    "absolute single - molecule entropies from quasi - harmonic analysis of microsecond molecular dynamics : correction terms and convergence properties . , 5(12):31503160 , 2009 .",
    "a.  t. hagler , p.s .",
    "stern , r.  sharon , j.  m. becker , and f.  naider .",
    "computer simulation of the conformational properties of oligopeptides .",
    "comparison of theoretical methods and analysis of experimental results .",
    ", 101(23):68426852 , 1979 .",
    "a.  korkut and w.  a. hendrickson .",
    "stereochemistry of polypeptide conformation in coarse grained analysis . in _",
    "biomolecular forms and functions : a celebration of 50 years of the ramachandran map _ , pages 136147 .",
    "world scientific publishing , 2013 .",
    "y.  yao , j.  sun , x.  h. huang , g.  r. bowman , g.  singh , m.  lesnick , l.  j. guibas , v.  s. pande , and g.  carlsson .",
    "topological methods for exploring low - density states in biomolecular folding pathways . , 130:144115 , 2009 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we introduce multiscale persistent functions for biomolecular structure characterization . </S>",
    "<S> the essential idea is to combine our multiscale rigidity functions with persistent homology analysis , so as to construct a series of multiscale persistent functions , particularly multiscale persistent entropies , for structure characterization . to clarify the fundamental idea of our method , </S>",
    "<S> the multiscale persistent entropy model is discussed in great detail . </S>",
    "<S> mathematically , unlike the previous persistent entropy or topological entropy@xcite , a special resolution parameter is incorporated into our model . </S>",
    "<S> various scales can be achieved by tuning its value . </S>",
    "<S> physically , our multiscale persistent entropy can be used in conformation entropy evaluation . </S>",
    "<S> more specifically , it is found that our method incorporates in it a natural classification scheme . </S>",
    "<S> this is achieved through a density filtration of a multiscale rigidity function built from bond and/or dihedral angle distributions . to further validate our model , a systematical comparison with the traditional entropy evaluation model </S>",
    "<S> is done . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that our model is able to preserve the intrinsic topological features of biomolecular data much better than traditional approaches , particularly for resolutions in the mediate range . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , our method can be successfully used in protein classification . for a test database with around nine hundred proteins , </S>",
    "<S> a clear separation between all - alpha and all - beta proteins can be achieved , using only the dihedral and pseudo - bond angle information . </S>",
    "<S> the persistent entropy values of mixed - alpha - and - beta proteins are also found to be in the middle region with just a few cases overlapped with the other two categories . finally , a special protein structure index ( psi ) is proposed , for the first time , to describe the  regularity \" of protein structures . </S>",
    "<S> basically , a protein structure is deemed as regular if it has a consistent , uniformed , and orderly configuration . </S>",
    "<S> our psi model is tested on a database of 110 proteins , we find that structures with larger portions of loops and intrinsically disorder regions are always associated with larger psi , meaning an irregular configuration . while proteins with larger portions of secondary structures , i.e. , alpha - helix or beta - sheet , have smaller psi . </S>",
    "<S> essentially , psi can be used to describe the  regularity \" information in any systems .    </S>",
    "<S> key words : conformation entropy , dihedral angle , multiscale persistent function , protein structure , persistent homology , rigidity function . </S>"
  ]
}