{
  "article_text": [
    "redshift estimates for galaxies can be derived from imaging photometry and are known as photometric redshifts a.k.a .",
    "_ photo - z s or phot - zs_. they were conceived over half a century ago to extend the reach of the largest telescopes in their attempt to constrain world models @xcite . today , they are particularly attractive for large - area surveys , where relatively modest observing time can deliver many more redshifts than spectroscopic campaigns .",
    "the motivation for photo - z s is still largely driven by cosmological tests ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but extends beyond these to studies of galaxy evolution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the identification of rare objects .    two domains of photo - z application can be differentiated : ( 1 ) deep pencil - beam surveys , such as the original hubble deep field @xcite , push the frontier of exploration into the unknown , and redshifts for distant faint objects are constrained by bayesian exploration of the data using spectral energy distribution templates and galaxy evolution models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "\\(2 ) at the other end of the scale , wide - area surveys grow to cover most of the sky and register huge numbers of galaxies despite relatively shallow flux limits , simply because area is easier to extend than depth ; the analysis of their data is usually limited by systematics rather than number statistics . in this domain , photo - z s",
    "are ideally based on accurate empirical frequency maps of redshift occurrence , where such maps are usually derived from spectroscopic training samples such as that of the main galaxy sample of the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "photo - z catalogues of vast areas of sky have not only been constructed for the area covered by sdss , but also for all - sky footprints , such as the 2mpz and wise x supercosmos catalogues by @xcite .    given",
    "that photometric catalogues can easily achieve greater depth than complete spectroscopic catalogues , it is tempting to derive photo - z s as deep as @xmath7 , although the available large and complete training sets such as the sdss main spectroscopic sample reach only @xmath8 . since it is evident that fainter galaxies may reach higher redshifts , and empirical non - parametric maps can not be meaningfully extrapolated , a deeper photo - z catalogue will only be useful when similarly deep training sets are added .",
    "this is now commonly done ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , although we note that most of these deep spectroscopic catalogues are highly incomplete @xcite , and the objects with missing redshifts have been found to reside at very different redshifts when deeper spectra became available @xcite . since the incompleteness propagates equally into the training sample as into the validation sample , it is not revealed by the purely internal performance measures of photo - z precision .",
    "when large parts of the true redshift distribution are missing from a training sample , they will be missing from the empirically trained photo - z catalogue as well as from the performance statistics . pushing empirical photo - z s deeper in a reliable fashion requires not fancier statistical methods , but simply deeper complete random spectroscopic training samples .    in this paper",
    ", we explore photo - z s derived from a new training sample , which satisfies three important criteria for the first time : ( 1 ) going deeper than the sdss main galaxy sample by two magnitudes , thus pushing to higher redshifts as well as fainter galaxies , ( 2 ) going wide enough to overcome cosmic variance by drawing the training sample from @xmath0700 deg@xmath1 of sky , and ( 3 ) being very complete in representing the random galaxy population .",
    "training sets can of course be derived from other surveys as well , however , e.g. the samples from the sdss stripe 82 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the wigglez survey @xcite use particular target selections and ignore certain types of galaxies .",
    "in contrast , redshifts from the galaxy and mass assembly ( gama , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) survey are extremely complete and reliable to a similar depth as our new sample , and indeed manifest a complete census of the galaxy population within their target fields .",
    "the effective area of the gama sample used by @xcite is , however , smaller than that of the sample presented here and may thus be more affected by cosmic variance .",
    "this is because gama fully samples its chosen sky area , while our training set subsamples a larger area .",
    "thus , our new training sample should provide a useful resource for deriving galaxy photo - z s to nearly magnitude @xmath9 , and will be publicly available ( see website at http://2dflens.swin.edu.au ) .",
    "it is an unbiased spectroscopic sample of general value , which can be used for photo - z training by any survey that covers the region of our sample .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to explore how well broadband photo - z s perform at @xmath10 using complete random validation samples .",
    "the new training set was created with the skymapper southern survey @xcite in mind , which will reach a depth similar to the sdss imaging on 20,000 deg@xmath1 area by 2019 , and release its first deep data soon @xcite .",
    "the skymapper southern survey addresses a broad range of science goals : stellar science and galactic archaeology studies benefit from the skymapper filter set ( @xmath11 ) , which allows estimating the stellar parameters @xmath12 straight from photometry .",
    "skymapper will be the main optical counterpart to the evolutionary map of the universe ( emu , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a large continuum survey of the australian ska pathfinder ( askap , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) planned to run from 2017 to 2019 .",
    "emu will locate 70 million radio sources and will rely on photometric redshifts from skymapper , combined with vhs and wise , for much of its work .",
    "based on an average psf with @xmath13 fwhm , we expect a point - source completeness limit of @xmath14 mag in @xmath15 and @xmath16-band , so that skymapper will see counterparts to over 20 million emu sources .",
    "skymapper will also be the main imaging resource to underpin the massive new spectroscopic taipan galaxy survey at @xmath17 ( see http://www.taipan-survey.org ) . finally , the repeat visits of skymapper allow addressing variability in both the stellar and extragalactic regime",
    ". most of the galaxies in skymapper will be at redshifts of @xmath18 , and with skymapper being a legacy survey the photometric redshifts will be used for an unpredictable range of science applications .    in the absence of complete skymapper data",
    ", we based the photo - z exploration work on images of the slightly deeper vst - atlas survey @xcite , where the filters are @xmath3 .",
    "once skymapper data is available , we expect to see a slight improvement of redshift accuracy at the low - redshift end due to the extra violet filter of skymapper . as usual",
    ", we explore here not only empirical methods based on our new training set , but compare with a template method as well .",
    "our new training set is a complete random sample of galaxies from across a wide area of @xmath0700 deg@xmath1 and obtained via spare - fibre spectroscopy within the 2-degree field lensing survey ( 2dflens , * ? ? ?",
    "the 2dflens survey is a large - scale galaxy redshift survey that has recently collected @xmath070,000 redshifts within the footprint of the vst - atlas survey , using the aaomega spectrograph at the anglo - australian telescope .",
    "the principal science goal of 2dflens is to test gravitational physics through the joint observation of galaxy velocities , traced by redshift - space distortions , and weak gravitational lensing measured on data of the kilo - degree - survey ( kids ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "its secondary purpose is to test methods of photometric - redshift calibration using both direct techniques for bright objects ( this paper ) and cross - correlation for a fainter sample @xcite .",
    "our 2df spectroscopy complements and extends existing data to increase depth and reliability of the photo - z s : the footprint of vst - atlas already contains several ten thousand published redshifts from the 2df galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . while this data is complete and reliable to @xmath19 obviating the need for bright - object spectroscopy , we limit our targets at the faint end to @xmath20 , given the observing constraints of the 2dflens project and the methodological requirement to obtain a complete and reliable redshift sample",
    "for all - sky photo - z purposes we desire a random sample that will represent the whole sky as best as possible and thus demand that its cosmic variance is as low as as possible .",
    "hence , we construct our sample not as a complete census from a compact area , but instead by heavily subsampling the galaxy population across a wide area .",
    "the use of unallocated spare fibres in the wide - area spectroscopic survey 2dflens is thus a perfect solution for our needs . in the future",
    ", we will explore how to optimally include data from gama and other sources as well .    in the following , we present our data set in sect .  2 and our methods in sect .",
    "3 . in sect .  4",
    "we discuss the photo - z s we obtain by combining optical photometry in vst - atlas with mid - infrared photometry from wise @xcite and by combining redshifts from 2dfgrs and 2dflens .",
    "the main objective of the 2dflens project is spectroscopic follow - up of the 1500 deg@xmath1 vst - kids survey @xcite , which is optimised for weak - gravitational lensing studies .",
    "the target selection in 2dflens comprised several components with different requirements detailed in @xcite .",
    "when 2dflens first started , kids did not yet cover all of its area , and therefore another imaging survey , vst - atlas @xcite , was used in its place for 2dflens target selection .",
    "vst - atlas is less deep , but it covered the 2dflens area and was completely sufficient for source selection in 2dflens in terms of its depth and multi - band nature .",
    "for all details of survey coverage and processing of imaging data , we refer to @xcite .      for the purpose of this paper",
    ", we only use relatively bright objects with @xmath2 .",
    "we note that at the depth of vst - atlas , objects with @xmath20 have very low photometric errors in all bands ( see table  [ tab : atlas_charac ] ) ; in the @xmath16-band the median formal flux error is less than 1% , and true uncertainties in the photometry are related almost exclusively to the usual challenges in galaxy photometry stemming from insufficiently constrained light profiles .",
    "@xcite describe the creation of our photometric catalogue for vst - atlas . in brief , we determine galaxy colours from isophotal magnitudes and use identical apertures in all bands .",
    "we first apply a shapelet - based psf gaussianization and homogenisation @xcite to all images , then extract total object magnitudes in the detection r - band using flexible elliptical apertures , and run source extractor @xcite in dual image mode to obtain magnitudes for the other bands in consistent apertures . as a result , our galaxy photometry probes identical physical footprints on the galaxy image outside the atmosphere , despite bandpass variations of seeing . finally , we apply illumination and standard dust corrections .",
    "all magnitudes are calibrated to the ab system .",
    "we have also cross - matched the resulting catalogue to wise ( see sect .",
    "3.1.4 in @xcite ) ; there we find that most objects are detected in the w1 and w2 bands , while w3 and w4 have lower signal , and are thus ignored for this purpose .    however , homogeneous photometric calibration turned out to be challenging in vst - atlas , because of the very low overlapping area between pointings ( see sect .  3.6 in @xcite ) , and we noticed after creating our sample that the resulting mean photo - z biases were a function of vst field .",
    "we also found the mean object colours to vary in line with that , and hence need to apply additional zero - point offsets to remove the field - to - field variation in calibration .",
    "we thus modified the default photometry by adjusting the magnitude zero - points per vst field , using wise as reference and adopting a very simple approach : ( 1 ) for every vst field we selected point sources with @xmath21 $ ] , which is a nearly uncontaminated star sample with well - measured photometry ; ( 2 ) we determined the median colours of this sample per field and compared with the overall median of the data set ; finally , we ( 3 ) adjusted all bands so that the median colours per vst field are the same . in the latter step",
    ", we kept the wise magnitudes as unchanged reference points , and only adjusted the vst - atlas photometry to match .",
    ".average properties of vst - atlas imaging data in 2dflens area .",
    "@xmath22 is the median magnitude error at the spectroscopic limit of @xmath20 . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      one of the reasons for the appearance of redshift outliers is errors in the spectroscopic identification , the rate of which will depend on the redshift quality flag assigned during the spectroscopic inspection .",
    "a quality flag of 4 or 5 indicates redshifts that seem absolutely certain to the human inspector .",
    "accidental mistakes may still happen , but this quality class is expected to be notionally `` 99% correct '' .",
    "with decreasing quality class we expect the fraction of incorrect redshifts to grow .",
    "@xmath23 is assigned to all spectra where the human inspector can not see any significant feature , and the redshift is taken from a cross - correlation fit .",
    "the bright 2dfgrs sample contains no objects with @xmath23 , but 3% of the fainter 2dflens sample fall into this category .",
    "we define outliers using @xmath24 and measure their fraction among kde photo - z s after splitting the sample by quality flag .",
    "table  [ outliers ] shows that outlier rates are lower for 2dfgrs than for 2dflens .",
    "this is a consequence of their intrinsic difference with mean redshifts of @xmath25 vs. @xmath26 .",
    "outliers as defined here , with a redshift error greater than 0.1 , are almost ruled out by definition in a bright sample at consistently low redshift .    among q=4 and 5 objects",
    "we find outlier rates on the order of @xmath01% , which is fully consistent with the notional target reliability of 99% for this quality class .",
    "we checked the hypothesis that those outliers might be due to wrong spectroscopic redshifts rather than wrong photo - z s .",
    "revisiting their spectra , we found that less than 20% of these conflicting cases had uncertain or wrong redshifts assigned .",
    "we have not yet investigated in detail what explains such outliers that are not expected in the absence of ambiguities in the colour - redshift map .",
    "however , we have evidence that source blending and strong lensing play a role , where two galaxies at different redshifts appear on nearly the same line - of - sight .",
    "this affects the measured photometry of the combined object and makes the redshift itself ambiguous .",
    "we also find that the outlier rates increase with decreasing spectroscopic quality , as expected .",
    "they reach @xmath02% for q=3 , @xmath015% for q=2 and @xmath030% for q=1 .",
    "it appears credible that the increases above the rate for the highest - quality bin are mostly due to spectroscopic data quality issues .",
    "bad seeing , high background and faint objects all lead to lower signal - to - noise , and scattered light from nearby objects confuses the situation .",
    "spectroscopic quality decreases for fainter objects and generally for worse observing conditions .",
    "however , there do exist galaxy spectra , which are intrinsically challenging due to weak lines , e.g. when low metallicity is combined with low star - formation rate .",
    "we repeat , however , that in our magnitude range we do not expect any galaxies from the redshift desert of optical spectrographs at @xmath27 .",
    "the spectroscopic redshift of objects with q=1 is almost uniquely determined by cross - correlation of the spectrum with templates , and specifically marks cases with a very weak correlation coefficient .",
    "a @xmath030% outlier rate above a threshold of @xmath24 is consistent with either the photo - z or the spec - z being drawn at random from the full sample , while the other one is assumed to be correct .",
    "so , this could mean that the q=1 cross - correlation redshifts are random , while the photo - z s are actually correct , or the photo - z s are random while the low cross - correlation redshifts are correct , or any mix of the two . only for q=2 and better quality levels",
    ", a human assessor has actually labelled our confidence in the spectroscopic redshift as `` possible '' ( q=2 ) , `` probable '' ( q=3 ) , and `` practically certain '' ( q=4/5 ) .    ]",
    "it is often asked whether photometric redshift probability distributions represent actual redshift frequencies for objects of the colour they were derived for .",
    "if this was the case , we could choose any subsample and add their @xmath5 to obtain a realistic @xmath28 estimate .",
    "@xcite have shown that in the limit of zero - smoothing kde such estimates deviate from the true @xmath28 only by poisson noise .",
    "however , zero - smoothing kde can only be implemented if the model photometry is less noisy than the query photometry . in this work model and query",
    "objects have statistically the same errors , which in zero - smoothing kde implies a kernel that is a @xmath29-function . choosing a kernel of finite width to avoid a breakdown of the method resulting from the discrete nature of the model applies additional smoothing to the @xmath30 .",
    "this kernel smoothing introduces neighbourhood information into the model where it is not expected in the data .",
    "the effect is expected to be strongest for bright objects , while the distribution of faint objects in feature space is already smoothed by larger photometric errors so that additional smoothing has less effect .",
    "we use two diagnostics to test whether @xmath5 statistically represents @xmath28 .",
    "first we determine the rms redshift error @xmath31 expected from the @xmath5 and compare it to the true redshift error @xmath32 . for an accurate @xmath5",
    "we expect the ratio of @xmath33 to have zero mean and rms @xmath34 . in the left - hand panels of fig .",
    "[ relerrors ] we show the distribution for the bright sample with @xmath35 from 2dfgrs ( top row ) , and that for the faint sample at @xmath36 from 2dflens ( bottom row ) .",
    "we first note the presence of @xmath37-outliers , where the true redshift is much further from the estimate than the width of the @xmath5 distribution suggests .",
    "outliers were discussed in the previous section .",
    "we then see that the shape of the distribution is approximately gaussian with an rms of 0.853 for 2dfgrs and 0.975 for 2dflens .",
    "so , the width of the @xmath5 distribution seems on average appropriate for the fainter 2dflens sample , while the kernel smoothing overestimates the expected errors for its redshift estimates of the bright 2dfgrs sample , just as expected theoretically .",
    "now we probe the shape of the @xmath5 distribution : we check whether the spectroscopic redshifts @xmath38 are randomly drawn from @xmath39 on a per - object basis . for this purpose",
    ", we measure the fraction of the normalised estimated probability below the true redshift :    @xmath40    if the @xmath5 is correct , we expect the distribution of the fractional probability to be precisely flat apart from noise . the right column in fig .",
    "[ relerrors ] shows that this is indeed the case for 2dflens ( bottom right panel ) : the distribution is flat and the median value of the sample is @xmath41 , very close to the expected value of @xmath42 . if we clip the outlier bins ( see below ) , we find mean numbers per bin of @xmath0348 and an rms of @xmath020 , very close to poisson noise .",
    "any smaller sub - sample selected from the whole 2dflens sample would be even more dominated by poisson noise , so that possible systematics would be even harder to detect .",
    "we thus take it as established that the kde @xmath5 estimates in any subsample at @xmath43 from our dataset are consistent with true redshift frequencies plus poisson noise .",
    "the brighter 2dfgrs sample shows a similar median value , but the sources are found to be concentrated more toward the centre of their estimated distribution than suggested by the distribution itself .",
    "this corroborates the previous finding and theoretical expectation that the kernel smoothing has added excess probability to the wings of the expected distribution for bright objects .",
    "finally , the bins at the ends of the distributions mark objects whose redshift is not within the central 96th percentile of their estimated redshift distribution , and the excess in those bins amounts to @xmath0700 objects or a @xmath03.5% fraction among the total 2dflens sample and @xmath0500 objects or @xmath01.5% of the 2dfgrs sample .",
    "these objects are clear outliers from their estimated @xmath5 , and may be due to source blending .",
    "we first note that template methods have more room for mismatches between model and data than empirical methods , which lead to redshift biases when left uncorrected .",
    "we note the following issues :    1 .",
    "templates may not reliably cover all the features probed by the observations because their physics may not be understood and calibrated well enough to make a parametric model that is bias - free .",
    "e.g , we did not use the wise w1 and w2 bands in the template comparison as the templates are unreliable at this wavelength .",
    "we may expect a little less redshift discrimination in the bpz results , but note that excluding wise made less than a 10% difference to the kde results .",
    "redshift priors in template methods depend on the chosen template grid and will be sub - optimal given that template grids are a simplified view of the true sed space occupied by real galaxies .",
    "we found that the default prior of bpz was inappropriate for @xmath6 objects , as it had been tuned for fainter galaxies in deep surveys , so we chose a different prior from the literature , which may still not be a perfect match .",
    "calibration mismatches between templates and photometric data have been reported fairly often , and can be addressed with photometric zero - point adjustments in the observed frame as well as with template repair methods in the restframe ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "fixing any of these three issues is beyond the scope of this paper , and thus our results for the template method remain probably sub - optimal . as we see in fig .",
    "[ zz ] and fig .",
    "[ biasrms ] , the most obvious difference between our photo - z results from template methods and empirical methods are redshift biases that are a function of redshift .",
    "in contrast to our application of the template method , an empirical method can make use of all features observed in the data set .",
    "when it is based on a random sample drawn from a large volume in a homogeneous universe observed with homogeneous photometric zero - points , it will also naturally take care of the calibration and the prior of the model .",
    "everyone with a rich complete training set has the option to use an empirical method , unless extrapolation in magnitude , redshift or object type are required , which would then involve uncertain parametric assumptions .    .",
    "[ zr ] ]    a further source of redshift biases is the profound semantic difference between a likelihood and a probability .",
    "the estimated zero - point error plays a special role in template methods : it is usually added quadratically to an object s flux error to represent a more realistic uncertainty in an sed .",
    "this widens the bayesian likelihood contours and protects the user against trusting optimistic error estimates .",
    "however , it is clear that the @xmath5 functions thus obtained are likelihood estimates and not probability estimates , representing degrees of belief , and not frequencies in a random experiment .",
    "we repeat that in our case the formal flux errors are nearly vanishing and the assumed error is basically the zero - point error .",
    "we first assumed fiducially a zero - point uncertainty of @xmath44 , but noticed that at @xmath45 a single - band redshift estimated empirically from only the @xmath16-band magnitude is already more accurate than the five - band template method bpz05 ( see fig .",
    "[ biasrms ] ) .",
    "we re - ran the code with other values and found that bias and scatter were on average reduced by increasing the zero - point uncertainty to @xmath46 .",
    "however , this change also introduced specific features into the results as the inflated flux confidence intervals then corresponded to a broader range of likely redshifts .",
    "near the edges of the redshift distribution , where the redshift priors are steep , intermediate redshifts are thus rendered more likely than the correct very low or very high redshifts .",
    "this effect is shown in fig .",
    "[ zr ] , where we show the redshift estimates of the entire sample vs. @xmath16-band magnitude .",
    "while the estimates of @xmath47 ( with @xmath44 zero - point uncertainty ) cover the entire space of realised redshift - magnitude realisations , those with the inflated zero - point uncertainty , @xmath48 , are confined to a much tighter redshift interval at fixed magnitude and are systematically devoid of low - redshift estimates with increasing magnitude , such that e.g. no single photo - z for @xmath49 occurs at @xmath50 .",
    "but we note , that photo - z - based science applications often require that the true redshift distribution in a photo - z bin is correct , and not the converse , which would not be helpful given that in a blind photo - z situation , there is obviously no possibility to sort objects into true redshift bins .",
    "this is indeed the case for @xmath48 at the low - redshift end , while it is not the case for @xmath47 at either end .",
    "in this paper , we present a new training set for photometric redshifts of galaxies , which is complete and randomly selected to @xmath51 , and thus two magnitudes deeper than the sdss main spectroscopic galaxy sample .",
    "it is similarly deep as the gama redshift sample , but randomly sub - selected from a larger survey footprint to suppress large - scale structure .",
    "one new aspect of this training sample is that we counteracted the steep number counts of galaxies by selecting brighter galaxies from a larger effective area within the same survey footprint .",
    "this reduces redundancy of information at fainter magnitudes and simultaneously reduces sparsity of representation and model discretisation noise at brighter magnitudes .",
    "together with the 2dfgrs sample at brighter magnitudes , it includes over 50,000 redshifts selected from over 700 deg@xmath1 area in the southern sky .    based on this training set and @xmath3 and wise photometry",
    ", we investigate the performance of photometric redshifts for galaxies using empirical and template approaches .",
    "all our methods are set up so that they produce redshift probability distributions @xmath5 and not simply redshift estimates in the first instance .",
    "we investigate both the comparison of best estimates derived from the @xmath5 as well as the precision of the @xmath5 in actually representing expected frequencies .",
    "we find that the template method suffers from redshift biases due to several issues that are not easy to fix .",
    "the empirical methods have lower biases , especially the kde method , which by design has no measurable bias larger than poisson noise .",
    "none of the methods have significant outliers , since there are simply no serious colour - redshift ambiguities at @xmath10 and @xmath52 , as opposed to deeper and higher - redshift surveys .",
    "two of our empirical methods , using boosted decision trees and neural nets , are trained methods and demand sufficiently dense training samples .",
    "thus they tend to fail at the edges of the redshift distribution , where the number counts are steep and the sample becomes sparse .",
    "in contrast , the kde method is not a trained method , hence our spectroscopic sample acts directly as a model set instead of a training set , as it is simply a discrete random representation of the galaxy redshift density field in observed feature space .",
    "the kde method also achieves the best photometric redshift scatter , with values for the 68th percentile of @xmath53(0.014 , 0.017 , 0.028 ) for samples selected to have @xmath4 , respectively .",
    "we note that additional improvements in redshift precision for galaxies at @xmath6 would mostly be enabled with filter sets that include narrower passbands to increase the sensitivity of colour measurements to smaller changes in redshift , but are not expected from adding further , largely redundant , broad - band information .",
    "we reiterate that photometric redshift precision is necessarily a strong function of magnitude , since intrinsic redshift variance itself is a strong function of magnitude , increasing from 0.017 at @xmath54 to 0.1 at @xmath55 .",
    "often also the signal - to - noise of the photometric feature measurement is a strong function of magnitude , although this is not the case in our data set , where photometry is uniformly good across the entire range considered here . as a result",
    ", many statements in the literature about photometric redshift scatter contain no information unless accompanied by clear magnitude and signal - to - noise references .",
    "we note , however , that the realisation of the kde method presented here is still not a textbook realisation of bayesian statistics , as such an implementation requires photometric errors to be smaller on the model sample than on the query sample .",
    "only then can we implement kde in such a way that @xmath5 represents the expected redshift frequency precisely .",
    "however , at @xmath56 we do nt see a measurable deviation from the expected frequencies plus poisson noise for any subsample of objects .    in summary",
    "it appears that photometric redshifts for galaxies to @xmath10 are a solved problem , and the next frontier is improving model samples at @xmath57 by making them simultaneously more complete , random and less affected by large - scale structure . a helpful project to this end , scheduled for observation in the 2020s , is the wide area vista extragalactic survey ( waves , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) planned at the forthcoming 4most instrument at the eso - vista telescope , which may end up creating a large and complete random redshift sample to @xmath58 .    the original motivation for obtaining this training set was to use it for deriving kde - based photometric redshifts in the skymapper southern survey , which will see a first release of its main survey data in 2017 .",
    "at @xmath59 , we expect the redshift scatter to be slightly better for the skymapper filter set than for @xmath3 , because of the narrower @xmath60 ( ultraviolet and violet ) filter pair in skymapper . for skymapper",
    ", we also plan a kde classification into object types , which we will explore with further training sets that we have obtained in the realm of stars and quasars .",
    "cw was supported by australian research council laureate grant fl0992131 .",
    "parts of this research were conducted by the australian research council centre of excellence for all - sky astrophysics ( caastro ) , through project number ce110001020 .",
    "mb is supported by the netherlands organization for scientific research , nwo , through grant number 614.001.451 , through fp7 grant number 279396 from the european research council , and by the polish national science center under contract # umo-2012/07/d / st9/02785 .",
    "cb acknowledges the support of the australian research council through the award of a future fellowship .",
    "ch acknowledges support from the european research council under grant number 647112 .",
    "hh was supported by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft under emmy noether grant hi 1495/2 - 1 . te and dk",
    "are supported by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft in the framework of the tr33 ` the dark universe ' . based in part on data acquired at the australian astronomical observatory , through program a/2014b/08 .",
    "kk acknowledges support by the alexander von humboldt foundation .",
    "dp is supported by the australian research council future fellowship grant ft130101086 .",
    "this publication used data obtained by the eso vst - atlas survey under program i d 177.a-3011 .",
    "it also makes use of data products from the wide - field infrared survey explorer , which is a joint project of the university of california , los angeles , and the jet propulsion laboratory / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "in the mid-1900s hardly any redshifts were known for galaxies at @xmath61 . but reaching higher redshifts was crucial for measuring the expansion history of the universe , deciding which cosmological model explains our world and suggesting what fate might await our universe .",
    "higher redshift , however , implied fainter objects with insufficient flux for the spectrographs of the time .",
    "@xcite mentions that there were four magnitudes between the spectrographic and the photographic limits of the 200-inch hale telescope at mt palomar , and asserted that `` observations within that territory will be vital to any definitive cosmological result '' .",
    "he also pointed out that `` the high precision of spectrographic redshifts is not needed ; we can well afford to trade a factor 10 in precision for the opportunity of reaching galaxies at larger distances '' ( both statements copied verbatim ) .",
    "today , the emphasis is not purely on reaching depths in magnitude and redshift that would not be accessible to any spectrograph , but on getting redshifts for large numbers of galaxies that are impractical with contemporary spectrographs .",
    "@xcite discusses fitting the template of what we call nowadays a `` luminous red galaxy '' ( lrg ) to the optical multi - band sed of luminous cluster galaxies .",
    "these methods have evolved to include a wide range of possible galaxy template seds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and priors for their likelihood of occurring at different magnitudes and redshifts @xcite .",
    "they have evolved to separate rare qsos from galaxies and estimate redshifts for them @xcite , and to include bayes factors for making sed - based class decisions between stars , galaxies and qsos @xcite , so that star - galaxy separation does not need to rely on morphology .",
    "such model template methods produce bayesian likelihood distributions over redshift for every object , so they can differentiate cases where the model allows little distinction from cases where the model suggests a well - constrained redshift .    along a different line @xcite established an empirical relation between the photographic colours of galaxies and their redshift using the 100-inch telescope at mt wilson , but again this work was restricted to lrgs and calibrated only to an empirical limit at @xmath62 .",
    "the colour - redshift relation of the cluster red sequence is still a useful technique for modern surveys such as the rcs @xcite as it requires data in only two passbands , but it needs clusters to mark red - sequence galaxies through their overdensity , since the colours of galaxies are affected by their intrinsic sed variety more than by their redshifts .    the empirical approach has thus evolved to discover and capture the variety of galaxy seds from complete galaxy samples with sed and redshift information .",
    "algorithms have included fitting of colour - redshift curves @xmath30 @xcite , a method that also works to some extend for qsos @xcite , artificial neural nets ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) nearest - neighbour and tree methods @xcite , support - vector machines @xcite and other flavours of what we nowadays call `` machine learning methods '' .",
    "what these methods have in common is that they aim to fit a smooth colour - redshift relation to the empirical data without assuming additional underlying facts .",
    "such relations can include features other than colour , e.g. size and morphology , in search of additional discriminant information for redshift . as opposed to bayesian models , the early empirical methods produced a unique mapping from observed features to redshift , such that any object had only a single scalar value attributed , i.e. the best redshift estimate .",
    "the degree of uncertainty or ambiguity had to be discovered in a validation sample from the sample difference between true and estimated redshift and was thus not provided on a per - object basis .",
    "a further evolution of the empirical methods allowed these to produce redshift probability distributions as well .",
    "neural nets were upgraded from one output value to output vectors recording a probability distribution over various alternative , allowed values , and became known as probabilistic neural nets @xcite ; a photo - z application of this type was published by @xcite .",
    "nearest - neighbour methods could produce a probability distribution after resampling an objects s photometry over its error ellipsoid @xcite .",
    "kernel - density estimation ( kde , see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) was one particular method , where the bayesian and empirical approach could be unified by using the empirical sample objects as discrete instances of a model : technically kde with an empirical sample is identical to bayesian model fitting , if the kernel function is chosen to be the error ellipsoid of the query object and the empirical features of the model object are free of random errors ( see * ? ? ?",
    "we refer to @xcite for a mathematical unification of various approaches .",
    "users of photometric redshift estimates are typically looking for one of the following three performance criteria , depending on the science application : ( 1 ) a low redshift uncertainty per - object , which is required when the observed photo - z sample is to be binned in narrow redshift bins to study galaxy evolution ( e.g. bins of @xmath63 in * ? ? ? * ) or when the redshift resolution drives the contrast for the detection of overdensities ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) ; ( 2 ) a low outlier rate of catastrophically wrong estimates , which is relevant when the precise mean redshift of a photo - z sample is required ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; or ( 3 ) a small difference between co - added redshift probability functions of small sub - samples and their true redshift frequency distribution , which is important e.g. for cosmological parameter estimation from gravitational lensing or growth of structure in photo - z samples ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the above historical evolution suggests that there are two profoundly different kinds of photo - z approaches , those based on parametric templates and those based on empirical data .",
    "however , we should not call them different _ methods _ as their primary difference is in the _ models _ ,",
    "i.e. parametric template models vs. empirical models .",
    "it is further helpful to be aware of another methodical distinction , that between probabilistic methods and function - fitting methods .",
    "either class of method can be used in conjunction with either class of model . when authors discuss a comparison between e.g. an empirical neural - net based approach with a bayesian fitting of a parametric model , they change at once two different parts in the procedure , the inference method ( probabilistic vs. function - fitting ) and the assumed model ( parametric vs. empirical ) .",
    "such a comparison makes it hard to attribute differences in performance clearly to one aspect",
    ". did the change of model cause the difference or the change of inference method ?",
    "hence , while we are commonly aware of two classes of photo - z approach , there are actually four possibilities .",
    "a second often over - looked point is the usage of the term probability .",
    "textbooks about statistical inference remind us ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that _ probability _ can describe two different meanings : it can describe _ frequencies of outcomes in random experiments _ , and it can describe _ degrees of belief in propositions that do not involve random variables_. @xcite also remind us that _ a likelihood function is not a probability distribution _",
    "( phrases in italics copied verbatim from @xcite ) . below we",
    "explore what that means for the photo - z problem .        in a standard bayesian analysis ,",
    "the model is assumed to be formally free of uncertainties .",
    "a model that is even slightly different from the data is thus only viable if the measurements have uncertainties , which of course they do .",
    "the model parameter of interest here is redshift , and the uncertainties in the measured photometry of a query object inform bayesian likelihood distributions in redshift .",
    "the very existence of bayesian probability distributions is tempting some users to interpret them in a frequentist manner by believing that they actually represent frequencies of redshift realisations .",
    "this , however , is a leap of confidence relying on the assumption of a perfect model .",
    "errors in the model obviously lead to the fact that the sum of bayesian redshift probability distributions in a sample is not necessarily close to the actual redshift frequency distribution in the sample .",
    "for the interpretation of any statistical analysis , it is important to understand what we mean by _ uncertainty_. is it a lack of precise knowledge on an individual unknown object drawn at random from a known distribution ? in this case , we know which values in the distribution are more _ frequent _ than others , and frequentist statistics is possible . or is it lack of knowledge on the whole distribution ? in that case , we only know which values we consider _ possible _ and bayesian statistics is the method of choice . in both perspectives , the term probability is used , but in the frequentist case probability means frequency and in the bayesian case probability means possibility when it is based on an imperfect model .",
    "now we need to distinguish uncertainty in the data from uncertainty in a model , as this is relevant for deriving redshift distributions for samples . in photometric surveys , uncertainty in the data are flux errors , which usually have a gaussian distribution . for an individual object ,",
    "the gaussian centred on the measurement represents the possible true fluxes of the object . in a sample of objects the distribution of measured flux values",
    "has already been broadened by convolving the true distribution with the gaussian uncertainty to produce the measured , wider distribution , and an underlying frequency distribution could be estimated by deconvolution .",
    "in contrast , uncertainty in a model may follow known distributions in case of an empirical method or be vaguely and qualitatively assessed as in the case of templates and associated priors .    in a bayesian framework , it is straightforward to take the measurement uncertainties on the data into account , and , assuming the model to be correct , a reliable estimate of redshift possibility is obtained .",
    "but generally photo - z methods estimate redshifts on a per - object basis , which means that measurement uncertainties across a sample are never accounted for with a deconvolution . summing up the bayesian redshift distributions over all objects",
    "then produces an aggregate @xmath64 distribution that is widened over the true @xmath28 distribution by the measurement errors .",
    "also , it has often been found that template models do nt seem to describe the observed data perfectly , owing to uncertainties in the measurements that led to the templates or imperfections in the model underlying the creation of the templates .",
    "this has motivated the introduction of both repair methods as discussed in sect .",
    "3.3.2 and of template errors ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the template error increases uncertainty in the model - data comparison and protects against a confident but wrong estimate from a wrongly calibrated model .",
    "it helps to decrease the rate of catastrophic redshift outliers by increasing our estimate of our estimation errors .    while this makes sense from a bayesian point - of - view , a frequentist interpretation of this approach",
    "is that one mistake is countered with another : the procedure starts out with a wrong and perhaps too tightly defined model that produces a @xmath5 distribution that is both too narrow and displaced , and the correction widens the @xmath5 cosmetically to make sure the correct solution is contained within the confidence interval and outliers are avoided .",
    "the problem is that the template error is an expression of model _ possibility _ , not an expression of model _ frequency _ and hence the resulting @xmath5 will reflect redshift _ possibility _ but will not reflect redshift _",
    "frequency_.    empirical methods need to deal with measurements errors in both the query sample and the empirical sample that is the foundation for the model .",
    "when training e.g. a neural network , the measurements errors do not need to be taken into account per - object as they are implicit in the distribution of the training sample .",
    "as long as the error distribution in the training sample and the query sample are similar , the network simply trains to give on average the best answer . in particular , it is not advisable to train the network with additional realisations of the training sample , created by adding noise according to the measurement uncertainties , since this will lead to over - smoothing and scatter redshift signals into neighbouring parts of feature space where they are not observed .    in the case of",
    "kde the model is not abstracted so that the gaussian measurement noise of the model constituents is present and known on a per - object basis . the kernel function in kde introduces a smoothing of the model , which is usually undesired , especially if model and data have similar measurement errors , because it will make the model @xmath30 map smoother than the data @xmath30 distribution , and hence broaden the @xmath5 estimate for each object .",
    "however , the @xmath5 results of kde can be made to be exactly representative of the full empirical map , if the smoothing of the model @xmath30 map is tuned to the uncertainties of the data of an individual query object _ after _ applying the kernel function .",
    "this means that if both model and data noise is gaussian , the uncertainties of data and model should not be square - added but square - subtracted , which of course is impossible when model uncertainties are at least as large as those on data . however , if photometry for the empirical sample is available with smaller errors than in the query sample , then the kernel function can be chosen for each model - data pair of objects such that the model error convolved with the kernel function equates the data error and the resulting @xmath5 will represent true redshift frequency within the statistical noise afforded by the empirical model @xcite .",
    "this last approach was shown to produce perfect frequentist @xmath5 s provided the empirical sample is complete and representative . in this paper , however , we can not take advantage of the zero - smoothing kde , because the photometry of the empirical sample has the same error levels as the query samples .",
    "bayesian template methods have long been the leading strand in photo - zeeing , since their application is not restricted in redshift or magnitude space .",
    "especially , they have been the only valid method for exploring unknown territory at faint magnitudes or in the high - redshift universe such as work in the hubble deep field @xcite .",
    "however , their application is restricted to observables that are predicted by the templates ; currently , templates are well defined in the uv - optical - nir regime , but there are uncertainties towards more extreme wavelengths , where the emission of stellar atmospheres is currently less well - known . also , dust and agn add free parameters and potentially dominate the emission at much shorter and much longer wavelengths . in this work ,",
    "e.g. , the template - code bpz was not able to take advantage of the wise observations since these bands were not covered by the templates coming with bpz ( see discussion below ) .",
    "empirical methods , in contrast , extract the information content of observed features regardless of their nature .",
    "clearly , using templates to explore parts of parameter space that are empirically unconstrained is a risky extrapolation . but",
    "assumptions on templates can be informed by physics understanding , such as the age of the universe at a given redshift or plausible limits for the dust content of dwarf galaxies .",
    "as long as the space of considered template parameters is not too restrictive , the bayesian exploration remains valid . in the spirit of bayesian work",
    ", the range of tested models needs to include all models that are known to be possible , although not all of them may turn out to be relevant upon further empirical exploration .",
    "this means a bayesian probability distribution is always a _ possibility distribution _ that is hopefully at least as wide as the actual _",
    "frequency distribution_.    for empirical methods , in contrast , there is no valid extrapolation .",
    "when the @xmath30 map is defined for a particular apparent magnitude range , it can not be applied to an apparent magnitude outside of this range , simply because apparent magnitude is related to distance and hence redshift . in this paper",
    "we establish a redshift sample to @xmath2 , which enables us to make redshift estimates for galaxies at @xmath2 .",
    "fainter galaxies extend to higher redshifts than covered by our map , and we would have no chance to guess their redshifts from an empirical method that did not know about them .",
    "in addition , in this paper we use the @xmath16-band magnitude as one of the observed features , so that any fainter object would immediately appear as an obvious outlier . dropping magnitudes from the feature set will not remove this limitation : we stress , that extrapolating an empirical photo - z method to fainter redshifts is akin to fitting a spline to a set of points and assuming its parameters apply beyond the fitting range !",
    "empirical methods appear more reliable for predicting actual redshift _",
    "frequency distributions _ in magnitude ranges where complete empirical samples can be constructed .",
    "however , they do not protect against outliers due to their limited size ; rare types of objects may be entirely missing from small empirical data sets due to their discrete - object nature , and whatever is missing can not be identified in the query sample either . in the common situation where the query sample is much larger than the empirical sample , the poisson noise on the result is often driven by the smaller empirical sample , depending on the nature of the science application .",
    "hence , empirical samples potentially inhibit new discoveries by suggesting too much certainty .",
    "the _ estimated _ frequency distribution from empirical methods is thus usually narrower than the _ true _ frequency distribution .",
    "it is important to note a fundamental floor to the precision with which the redshift of a galaxy can be estimated from its sed , irrespective of method .",
    "the intrinsic variety in galaxy colours at a fixed redshift implies that for an observed galaxy colour there is intrinsic variety or ambiguity in redshift .",
    "while this effect is obvious when the observable is a single colour index , it still dominates the redshift errors of bright well - measured galaxies in presently common multi - band data sets .",
    "a few optical broad passbands do nt break all possible degeneracies in the space of seds spanned by the entire observable galaxy population .",
    "a set of observed magnitudes for a galaxy is at least influenced by the following parameters : ( 1 ) luminosity , ( 2 ) redshift , ( 3 ) mean stellar age , ( 4 ) specific star - formation rate , ( 5 ) internal dust column density , and ( 6 ) inclination of the galaxy ( changing the mixing of dust optical depth for different sub - populations ) . in reality ,",
    "star formation histories are more complicated than this simplified 2d - picture and also the observed passbands are not fully independent ; this affects broad - band colours enough to introduce intrinsic scatter to the @xmath30 map .",
    "the uncertainty of a per - object redshift estimate is primarily a function of the photometric errors as soon as a redshift estimate is colour - dependent . from a linear approximation to a local gradient in the @xmath30 map",
    ", we can derive @xmath65 and hence @xmath66 , which can be verified in simulations of photo - z surveys @xcite . however , globally the @xmath30 map is anything but linear and indeed bounded apart from band dropouts , so that the simple analytic relation will break down for large photometric errors .",
    "thus , redshift estimates of marginally detected objects rely mostly on filter dropouts to derive rough estimates , whose precision depends on the spacing of the filter set .",
    "redshift uncertainties towards the brighter end are a combination of the photometric errors and intrinsic redshift variance in the map , see e.g. @xcite for equations and an experiment with qsos from sdss",
    ".    at bright magnitudes calibration uncertainties may be large relative to photometric errors , and will thus drive the error budget . for template methods",
    "this concerns the calibration of the model templates relative to the observations .",
    "the issue is equally important for empirical methods , where the sky area containing the training sample needs to be on the same calibration as the sky area with the query sample .",
    "otherwise , colour offsets between query data and the @xmath30 map will lead to systematic redshift biases .",
    "given that redshift depends on colour , it is obvious that calibration offsets between model and data lead to biases in the redshift estimates .",
    "such offsets can stem from zeropoint shifts , from inconsistent ways of obtaining the data , or from model priors that do nt represent the query sample .",
    "bayesian methods use model templates from stellar population synthesis or from real seds measured in physically consistent apertures .",
    "hence , they need to ensure that photometric zeropoints for the bandpasses are correct and matched to the physical zeropoints of the template models @xcite .",
    "it was often found with template methods , that the data seemed to be calibrated to slightly different standards than the templates , which motivated self - calibrating template - repair methods ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "also , the multi - band data of query objects needs to sample the same physical footprint in each observed band even if psfs change with bandpass @xcite .",
    "usually , bandpass matching involves a convolution and/or aperture variation that homogenises the psf across images , and for some choices of aperture profile this can be achieved without a convolution @xcite .",
    "empirical methods do not have such strict requirements , because mean differences between bandpasses are accounted for , whether they stem from psf changes or zeropoint changes .",
    "hence , empirical methods are often considered self - calibrating and robust , although self - calibration only works if the trends are the same for the empirical and the query sample .",
    "the correct calibration of priors is implicit in empirical methods provided the empirical sample is complete , which might require the use of weights .",
    "no weighting , however , can repair the damage of object varieties missing entirely from the empirical sample .",
    "template sets need to be complete as well ; their priors are notoriously difficult to calibrate a - priori as the required information usually is to be discovered from the data after estimating redshifts to start with . certainly , the extrapolation of priors to fainter magnitudes or higher redshifts is risky , but possible based on plausible assumptions for galaxy evolution .",
    "since calibration itself rests on measurements , calibration errors in zero - points are itself unavoidable .",
    "when these calibration errors are unique on small patches of sky and scatter across larger areas of a survey , they introduce small local redshift biases corresponding to the calibration pattern .",
    "they may average out across an entire survey area and may not contribute much to the global redshift uncertainty .",
    "this will affect any photo - z method that does not constrain its model by location on the sky .",
    "the best insurance against the propagation of zero - point errors into redshift errors is the use of many independent features , because each feature will tend to move the redshift differently , and the large number of features will make the combined redshift constraint stronger .      sometimes not all features are observed for all objects in a sample . while an obvious solution is to redefine a complete sample without gaps in the data , we often want to work with the data in hand .",
    "bayesian methods can drop a constraint where it is not available .",
    "empirical methods without network structure consider every feature independent of the others ( such as kde ) and can marginalise over unmeasured features as well . but",
    "methods with a network structure require a value on every input node as otherwise the output is undefined .",
    "they could then not work with any training or query objects that have data missing , although upper limits can be included by representing them with a meaningful figure .",
    "empirical methods define a continuous map from a sample of discrete points , so that the map can be evaluated at any location at which query points may appear .",
    "the price of continuity is smoothing : at any location the map is constructed using the empirical support from a neighbourhood .",
    "in contrast , templates can be evaluated at any point in parameter space without referring to a neighbourhood .",
    "their resolution is only limited if filter - specific measurements are pre - calculated to a chosen grid , and those grids are only limited in size by practical considerations .",
    "the power of empirical methods to resolve structure in the map thus depends on dense sampling .",
    "a sparse empirical sample can only ever allow coarse estimates .",
    "kde will work particularly badly with sparse data as it does not fit an abstract model to the empirical data , while neural nets and other smooth - model fitters do .",
    "the difference is that fitted smooth models have continuously interpolated solutions in the gaps between the discrete empirical points , while kde considers a parameter range to be split into bins defined by each single object in the empirical sample .",
    "the interpolation may not follow a true but unknown structure in the interpolation space , but it will do better than kde , as long as it is prevented from overfitting and restricted to discovering a smooth model with as few parameters as are justified from the data .",
    "e.g. a neural net trained with two objects at @xmath67 and @xmath68 may be presented with a query object at @xmath69 and respond with an estimate of @xmath70 , which would be correct if @xmath71 happens to be linear .",
    "kde , however , would respond with a 50:50 probability that the query object is either from the @xmath72-bin or the @xmath73-bin .",
    "kde only plays out its strength when the empirical sample is very large .",
    "the advantage of kde then is that its estimates are based strictly on empirical knowledge and no attempt is made to involve smoothness or other constraints that involve unquantified deviations of the @xmath30 model from the underlying reality .",
    "@xcite have also shown that in kde it is possible to have effectively zero neighbourhood smoothing despite a non - zero - width kernel function ( see discussion below ) .",
    "photometric redshifts have a reputation for producing undesirable outliers , i.e. catastrophically wrong redshift estimates .",
    "there are three main origins of outliers : ( 1 ) genuine local redshift ambiguities in colour space , ( 2 ) model deficiencies such as inappropriate templates or priors , and ( 3 ) issues with the data such as object blending or incorrect photometric measurements .",
    "we also need to distinguish between the presence of outliers and their appearance , for which a further reason exists : ( 4 ) mistakes in spectroscopic redshifts used for quality validation .",
    "any large validation sample is prone to include some redshift mistakes , usually at the rate of @xmath74% for high - quality spectra , but larger for noisier data .",
    "wrong spectroscopic redshifts will appear as a floor of outliers in any photo - z validation , no matter which photo - z method had been used .",
    "genuine ambiguities ( 1 ) correspond to bimodal redshift distributions , where two possible answers are separated by more than their uncertainty .",
    "they are a problem for standard neural nets , which will always train to deliver the majority redshift answer for a given observed input .",
    "the minor mode in an ambiguity will necessarily appear as outliers .",
    "kde naturally estimates @xmath5 distributions from the model , so its power to flag ambiguities rests on their visibility in the empirical sample . the richer an empirical sample , the more ambiguities it can reveal .",
    "but in any sample there might always remain invisible weak ambiguities with major / minor frequency ratios so extreme that discretisation noise and the number of objects in the ambiguous region of feature space leads to the minor mode not showing a single object ( @xcite discuss quantitatively the residual estimation risks due to undetected ambiguities ) .",
    "a typical situation of interest involves a query sample that is much larger than the empirical sample , and weak ambiguities in the query sample , while being present , may be undetectable given the lower-@xmath75 empirical sample .",
    "bayesian template fitting can easily reveal ambiguities , although estimating the relative probability of the two modes is a challenge in the absence of an empirical model .    model deficiencies ( 2 ) for templates mostly means lack of appropriate templates , so that the right redshift solution can not be discovered in the bayesian test .",
    "however , empirical models may have similar deficiencies if the samples they are based upon are incomplete .",
    "a first incompleteness issue appears when the sampling of the spectroscopic data set is non - random , but prefers certain parts of colour - magnitude space over others .",
    "this is a minor problem that can be compensated with a weighting scheme as demonstrated by @xcite .",
    "a major problem , however , is that selective spectroscopic incompleteness may result from galaxies being intrinsically different .",
    "there is an unconstrained risk that galaxies without known redshifts have a redshift distribution that is different from those with similar colours but a successful redshift determination .",
    "ambiguities , where one solution was much harder to identify spectroscopically than the other , would manifest themselves in just this way .",
    "overall , empirical model deficiencies may be considered a minor issue when the completeness of an empirical sample is above 90% , but if we used samples that were , e.g. , very deep but only 50% complete , the results would not be very trustworthy .",
    "kde allows to explicitly include those parts of an empirical sample that lack spectroscopic redshift labels as a separate object type .",
    "kde can thus produce per - object an estimate that with x% probability it is drawn from a specified @xmath5 , while with @xmath76x% probability it is at an unknown redshift .",
    "another model deficiency is incorrect priors , which in template models are derived from our understanding of galaxy evolution ; they will continue to be an issue as long as the evolution of the galaxy population has not been mapped sufficiently well",
    ". in empirical models , wrong priors means either that the empirical sample is not a complete sample in a statistical random sense , or that the empirical sample is determined from a volume that is not representative of the query volume .",
    "photometric blends of two objects ( 3 ) are a problem , because one photometry is associated with two redshifts , while the photometry data would never be observed for a single object .",
    "usually , template methods do not include blends in their models , although with the use of appropriate priors and assumptions on the spatial resolution of the photometry this would be possible . in empirical models",
    ", these will ideally show up with the same frequency as in query samples , but their redshift label will depend on their spectroscopic identification .",
    "noisy spectra might preclude a clear identification as a blend , in which case they can be a problem for the model definition . at present",
    "we do nt have enough constraints to address blends further .",
    "wrong spectroscopic redshifts ( 4 ) are a problem for photo - z validation , but they are less of a problem for defining a model : when training neural nets , they will be ignored as minor modes while the net trains to deliver the majority answer ; kde methods will report a small but measurable probability for the wrong redshift . however , if redshift mistakes cluster in colour space , they will have larger local impact and can even influence a network response .",
    "photo - z analyses have usually two components , whose computational speed have different behaviour : these are ( 1 ) preparing the model , and ( 2 ) processing the query data . for template",
    "fitting , a colour library may first be constructed from a template library using the filter curves of the observing system .",
    "the processing time will depend on the resolution and dimension of the chosen grid .",
    "if no colour grid model is pre - calculated the convolution of templates with filter curves will need to be done on the fly .",
    "many empirical methods abstract a model from an observed sample , e.g. by training a neural network .",
    "empirical kde has no requirements on model preparation as the model is both directly observed and does not need to be abstracted .",
    "when running a query sets against a model , the speed , at which a single query object is processed , depends on the method .",
    "many machine - learning methods are information - compression methods that abstract a smooth map from a rich and detailed empirical data set .",
    "since the abstract map is captured in a small number of parameters , they generally deliver high speed in the processing of a query sample .",
    "their run time per query object is independent of the number of training objects , but depends on the number of model parameters such as network links .",
    "these methods are always to be preferred when query speed is essential .",
    "in contrast , both empirical kde and bayesian template - fitting are slow in running over a query sample , since they evaluate every model object in every data - model comparison individually .",
    "their runtime per query object scales with the size of the empirical sample or the number of points in the template @xmath77 redshift grid .",
    "traditionally , these considerations have been a concern in large surveys .",
    "but on modern hardware execution speed has ceased to be a concern for photo - z calculations .",
    "even a data set with 100 million objects will execute on single - core hardware in less than a few days with any of these methods .        1 .",
    "_ saturation regime : _ for bright objects the photometric error is so small that it has little influence on the redshift error ; the error is instead dominated by the intrinsic redshift distribution among objects of fixed colour and by calibration offsets between model and data .",
    "transition regime : _ for intermediate objects the photometric error gets larger with increasing magnitude and drives the redshift error with an approximately linear dependence as the colour - redshift mapping is locally approximately linear .",
    "breakdown regime : _ for faint objects the size of the photometric error ellipsoid approaches the bounded extent of the galaxy distribution in colour space , which means that all redshifts appear possible , irrespective of the degree of error .        ` what else needs to be mentioned and go where ?",
    "phat 2011 paper ?",
    "jeff newman s et al .",
    "white paper ? budavari+ 2000 method to discover templates fro photometry ?",
    "pnn , or multiple random forests , then determine scatter sample splits for the above . clarify terminology of training , validation and testing sample ? `    ahn , c. p. , et al .",
    "2014 , apjs , 211 , 17 asorey , j. , carrasco kind , m. , sevilla - noarbe , i. , brunner , r. j. & thaler , j. , 2016 , mnras , 459 , 1293 baldry , i. k. , glazebrook , k. , brinkmann , j. , ivezi ,  . , lupton , r. h. , nichol , r. c. & szalay , a. s. , 2004 , apj , 600 , 681 baldry , i. k. , et al .",
    ", 2014 , mnras , 441 , 244 baum , w. a. , 1957 , aj , 62 , 6 beck , r. , dobos , l. , budavari , t. , szalay , a. s. & csabai , i. , 2016 , mnras , 460 , 1371 bell , e. f. , wolf , c. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 608 , 752 bender , r. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "p. 96 in _ deep fields _",
    ", eso astrophysics symposia , ed . by cristiani , s. , renzini , a. & williams , r. e. , springer benitez , n. , 2000 , apj , 536 , 571 benitez , n. , moles , m. , et al .",
    ", 2009 , apj , 692 , l5 benitez , n. , 2011 , astrophysics source code library , record ascl:1108.011 benitez , n. , dupke , r. , moles , m. , sodre , l.,et al .",
    ", 2014 , j - pas `` red book '' , arxiv:1403.5237 bertin , e. , arnouts , s. , 1996 , a&as , 117 , 393 bilicki , m. , jarrett , t. h. , peacock , j. a. , cluver , m. e. , & steward , l. , 2014 , apjs , 210 , 9 bilicki , m. , peacock , j. a. , jarrett , t. h. , et al . , 2016 , apjs , 225 , 5 blake , c. & bridle , s. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 1329 blake , c. , brough , s. , colless , m. , couch , w. , croom , s. , et al . , 2010 , mnras , 406 , 803 blake , c. , et al . , 2016 , mnras , submitted bolzonella , m. , miralles , j .-",
    "m . & pell , r. , 2000 , a&a 363 , 476 bonnett , c. , 2015 , mnras , 449 , 1043 brammer , g. b. , van dokkum , p g. , coppi , p. , 2008 ,",
    "apj , 686 , 1503 bruzual , a. g. , & charlot , s. 1993 , apj , 405 , 538 budavari , t. , szalay , a. s. , connolly , a. j. , csabai , i. & dickinson , m. , 2001 , aj , 120 , 1588 budavari , t. , csabai , i. , szalay , a. s. , connolly , a. j. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "aj , 122 , 1163 bundy , k. , leauthaud , a. , saito , s. , bolton , a. , lin , y .- t . , maraston , c. , nichol , r. c. , schneider , d. p. , thomas , d. & wake , d. a. , 2015 , apjss , 221 , 15 capak , p. , phd thesis , 2004 capak , p. , aussel , h. , ajiki , m. , et al . 2007 , apjs , 172 , 99 carrasco kind , m. & brunner , r. j. , 2013 , mnras , 432 , 1483 coe , d. , benitez , n. , sanchez , s. f. , et al .",
    "2006 , aj , 132 , 926 coleman , g. d. , wu , c .- c . , & weedman , d. w. 1980 , apjs , 43 , 393 colless , m. , dalton g. , maddox , s. , sutherland , w. , norberg , p. et al . , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 1039 collister , a. a. & lahav , o. , 2004 , pasp , 116 , 345 connolly , a. j. , szalay , a. s. , bershady , m. a. , kinney , a. l. , calzetti , d. , 1995 , aj , 110 , 1071 csabai , i. , connolly , a. j. , szalay , a. s. & budavari , t. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 69 csabai , i. , budavari , t. , connolly , a. j. , szalay , a. s. , et al . , 2003 , apj , 125 , 580 csabai , i. , dobos , l. , trencseni , m. , herczegh , g. , josza , p. , purger , n. , budavari & t. , szalay , a. s. , 2007 , an , 328 , 852 de jong , j. t. a. , kuijken , k. , applegate , d. , begeman , k. , belikov , a. , et al . , 2013 , eso messenger , 154 , 44 drinkwater , m. j. , jurek , r. j. , blake , c. , woods , d. , et al . , 2010 , mnras , 401 , 1429 driver , s. p. , hill , d. t. , kelvin , l. s. , robotham , a. s. g. , et al . , 2011 , mnras , 413 , 971 driver , s. p. , wright , a. h. , andrews , s. k. , davies , l. j. , et al . , 2015 , mnras , arxiv:1508.02076 driver , s. p. , davies , l. j. , meyer , m. , power , c. , robotham , a. s. g. , baldry , i. k. , liske , j. & norberg , p. , 2016 ,",
    "assp , 42 , 205 edmondson , e. m. , miller , l. & wolf , c. , 2006 , mnras , 371 , 1693 fioc , m. , & rocca - volmerange , b. , 1997 , a&a , 326 , 950 firth , a. e. , lahav , o. & somerville , r. s. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 1195 gerdes , d. w. , sypniewski , a. j. , mckay , t. a. , hao , j. , weis , m. r. , wechsler , r. h. & busha , m. t. , 2010 , apj , 715 , 823 giavalisco , m. , ferguson , h. c. , koekemoer , a. m. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 600 , l93 gonzalez , v. & deep2 team , private communication graff , p. , feroz , f. , hobson , m. p. & lasenby , a. , mnras , 2014 , 441 , 1741 gray , m. e. , taylor , a. n. , meisenheimer , k. , dye , s. , wolf , c. & thommes , e. , 2002 , apj , 568 , 141 hastie , t. , tibshirani , r. & friedman , j. , in _ the elements of statistical learning : data mining , inference and prediction _ , springer , 2008 hickson , p. , gibson , b. k. & callaghan , k. 1994 , mnras , 267 , 911 hildebrandt , h. , arnouts , s. , capak , p. , moustakas , l. a. , wolf , c. , et al .",
    "2010 , a&a , 523 , a31 hildebrandt , h. , et al .",
    "2012 , mnras , 421 , 2355 hildebrandt , h. , viola , m. , heymans , c. , joudaki , s. , kuijken , k. , et al .",
    "2016 , mnras , in press , arxiv:1606.05338 hinton , s. r. , davis , t. m. , lidman , c. , glazebrook , k. & lewis , g. f. , 2016 , astronomy & computing , 15 , 61 hoecker et al .",
    "2007 ilbert , o. , arnouts , s. , mccracken , h. j. , et al .",
    "2006 , a&a , 457 , 841 ilbert , o. , capak , p. , salvato , m. , et al .",
    "2009 , apj , 690 , 1236 jarrett , t. h. , cohen , m. , masci , f. , wright , e. , stern , d. et al .",
    "2011 , apj , 735 , 112 johnson , a. s. , blake , c. , et al .",
    "2016 , mnras , in preparation johnston , s. , et al . , 2007 , pasa , 24 , 174 johnston , s. , taylor , r. , bailes , m , et al .",
    ", 2008 , exp .",
    "astron . , 22 , 151 ( doi:10.1007/s10686 - 008 - 9124 - 7 ) jones , d. h. , read , m. a. , saunders , w. , colless , m. , et al .",
    "2009 , mnras , 399 , 683 keller , s. c. , schmidt , b. p. , bessell , m. s. , conroy , p. g. , francis , p. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , pasa , 24 , 1 kilbinger , m. , 2015 , reports on progress in physics , 78 , 8 , article i d .",
    "086901 kinney , a. l. , calzetti , d. , bohlin , r. c. , et al .",
    "1996 , apj , 467 , 38 kitching , t. d. , heavens , a. f. , taylor , a. n. , brown , m. l. , meisenheimer , k. , wolf , c. , gray , m. e. & bacon , d. j. , 2007 , mnras , 376 , 771 kurcz , a. , bilicki , m. , solarz , a. , krupa , m. , pollo , a. & maek , k. , 2016 , a&a , arxiv:1604.04229 kuijken , k. h. 2008 , a&a , 482 , 1053 kuijken , k. , heymans . , c. , hildebrandt , h. , nakajima , r. , et al .",
    ", 2015 , mnras , 454 , 3500 lanzetta , k. m. , webb , j. k. & fernndez - soto , a. , 1996 , nature , 381 , 759 le fvre , o. , cassata , p. , cucciati , o. , et al .",
    "2013 , a&a , 559 , a14 lilly , s. j. , le fevre , o. , crampton , d. , hammer , f. & tresse , l. , 1995 , apj , 455 , 50 lima , m. , cunha , c. e. , oyaizu , h. , frieman , j. , lin , h. & sheldon , e. s. , 2008 , mnras , 390 , 118 loh , e. d. & spillar , e. j. 1986 , apj , 303 , 154 mackay , d. j. c. , in _ information theory , inference , and learning algorithms _ , cambridge university press , 2003 mandelbaum , r. , seljak , u. , hirata , c. m. , et al .",
    ", 2008 , mnras , 386 , 781 mart , p. , miquel , r. , castander , f. j. , gaztaaga , e. , eriksen , m. & snchez , c. , 2014 , mnras , 442 , 92 masters , d. , capak , p. , stern , d. , ilbert , o. , salvato , m. , schmidt , s. , et al . , 2015 , apj , 813 , 53 newman , j. a. , 2008 , apj , 684 , 88 newman , j. a. , et al . , 2013 , arxiv:1309.5384 niemack , m. d. , jimenez , r. , verde , l. , menanteau , f. , panter , b. & spergel , d. , 2009 , apj , 690 , 89 norris , r. p. , hopkins , a. m. , et al . , 2011 , pasa , 28 , 215 oyaizu , h. , lima , m. , cunha , c. e. , lin , h. , frieman , j. & sheldon , e. s. , 2008 , apj , 674 , 768 prakash , a. , et al . , 2016 , apjs , 224 , 34 raichoor , a. , mei , s. , erben , t. , hildebrandt , h. , huertas - company , m. , ilbert , o. , licitra , r. , et al . 2014 , apj , 797 , 102 richards , g. t. , myers , a. d. , gray , a. g. , riegel , r. n. , nichol , r. c. , brunner , r. j. , szalay , a. s. , schneider , d. p. & anderson , s.f . , 2009 , ajss , 180 , 67 rser , h .- j . , & meisenheimer , k. , 1991 , a&a , 252 , 458 sadeh , i. , abdalla , f. b. & lahav , o. , 2015 , a&a , 474 , l5 saglia , r. p. , tonry , j. l. , bender , r. , et al .",
    "2012 , apj , 746 , 128 snchez , c. , carrasco kind , m. , lin , h. , miquel , r. , et al . , 2014 , mnras , 445 , 1482 schirmer , m. , 2013 , apjs , 209 , 21 scoville , n. , et al .",
    "2007 , apjss , 172 , 150 shanks , t. , metcalfe , n. , chehade , b. , findlay , j. r. , et al . , 2015 , mnras , 451 , 4238 skrutskie , m. f. , cutri , r. m. , stiening , r. , weinberg , m. d. , et al . 2006 , aj , 131 , 1163 spitler , l. , et al . , 2014 ,",
    "apj , 787 , 36 specht , d. f. , 1990 , neural networks , 3 , 109 stebbins , j. , whitford , a. e. , 1948 , aj , 53 , 204 van der walt , s. , colbert , s. c. & varoquaux , g. , 2011 , computing in science & engineering , 13 , 2 wang , d. , zhang , y. x. , liu , c. & zhao , y. h. , 2007 , mnras , 382 , 1601 williams , r. e. , blacker , b. , dickinson , m. , dixon , w. v. d. , ferguson , h. c. et al . , 1996 ,",
    "aj , 112 , 1335 wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , rser , h .- j . , et al . , 1999 , a&a , 343 , 399 wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , rser , h .- j . , 2001 , a&a , 365 , 660 wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , rix , h .- w . , et al",
    ", 2003a , a&a , 401 , 73 wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , kleinheinrich , m. et al . , 2004 , a&a , 421 , 913 wolf , c. , gray , m. , & meisenheimer , 2005 , a&a , 443 , 435 wolf , c. , hildebrandt , h. , taylor , e. n. & meisenheimer , k. , 2008 , a&a , 492 , 933 wolf , c. , 2009 , mnras , 397 , 520 wolf , c. , et al . , 2017 , mnras , in preparation wright , e. l. , eisenhardt , p. r. m. , mainzer , a. k. , ressler , m. e. et al . , 2010 , aj , 140 , 1868 york , d. g. , et al . , 2000 , aj , 120 , 1579    boris , n. v. , sodre , l. , jr . ,",
    "cypriano , e. s. , santos , w. a. , mendes de oliveira , c. & west , m. , 2007 , apj , 666 , 747 cunha , c. e. , lima , m. , oyaizu , h. , frieman , j. & lin , h. , 2008 , mnras , submitted wolf , c. , hildebrandt , h. , taylor , e. n. & meisenheimer , k. , 2008 , a&a , 492 , 933 finkbeiner , d. p. , davis , m. & schlegel , d. j. , 2000 , apj , 544 , 81 schlegel , d. j. , finkbeiner , d. p. & davis , m. 1998 , apj , 500 , 525"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a new training set for estimating empirical photometric redshifts of galaxies , which was created as part of the 2dflens project . </S>",
    "<S> this training set is located in a @xmath0700 deg@xmath1 area of the kids south field and is randomly selected and nearly complete at @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the photometric redshift performance obtained with @xmath3 photometry from vst - atlas and w1/w2 from wise , based on several empirical and template methods . </S>",
    "<S> the best redshift errors are obtained with kernel - density estimation , as are the lowest biases , which are consistent with zero within statistical noise . </S>",
    "<S> the 68th percentiles of the redshift scatter for magnitude - limited samples at @xmath4 are ( 0.014 , 0.017 , 0.028 ) . in this magnitude range </S>",
    "<S> , there are no known ambiguities in the colour - redshift map , consistent with a small rate of redshift outliers . in the fainter regime , the kde method produces @xmath5 estimates per galaxy that represent unbiased and accurate redshift frequency expectations . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath5 sum over any subsample is consistent with the true redshift frequency plus poisson noise . </S>",
    "<S> further improvements in redshift precision at @xmath6 would mostly be expected from filter sets with narrower passbands to increase the sensitivity of colours to small changes in redshift .    </S>",
    "<S> surveys  galaxies : distances and redshifts  methods : statistical </S>"
  ]
}