{
  "article_text": [
    "scene flow is a three - dimensional motion field of the surface in world space , or in other words , it shows the three - dimensional displacement vector of each surface point between two frames . as most computer vision issues are , scene flow estimation is essentially an ill - posed energy minimization problem with three unknowns .",
    "prior knowledge in multiple aspects is required to make the energy function solvable with just a few pairs of images .",
    "hence , it s essential to fully make use of information from the data source and to weigh different prior knowledge for a better performance .",
    "the paper attempts to reveal clues by providing a comprehensive literature survey in this field .",
    "scene flow is first introduced by vedula in 1999  @xcite and has made constant progress over the years .",
    "diverse data sources has emerged thus scene flow estimation do nt need to set up the complicated array of cameras .",
    "the conventional framework derived from optical flow field  @xcite has extended to this three - dimensional motion field estimation task , while diverse ideas and optimization manners has improved the performance noticeably .",
    "the widely concerned learning based method has been utilized for scene flow estimation  @xcite , which brings fresh blood to this integrated field . moreover , a few methods have achieved real - time estimation with gpu implementation at the qvga(@xmath0 ) resolution  @xcite , which insure a promising efficiency .",
    "the emergence of these methods stands for the fact that scene flow estimation will be widely utilized and applied to practice soon in the near future .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section  [ sec : background ] illustrates the relevant issues , challenges and applications of scene flow as a background .",
    "section  [ sec : taxonomy ] provides classification of scene flow in terms of three major components . emerging datasets that are publicly available and",
    "the diverse evaluation protocols are presented and analyzed in section  [ sec : evaluation ] .",
    "section  [ sec : discussion ] arises few questions to briefly discuss the content mentioned above , and the future vision is provided .",
    "finally , a conclusion is presented in section  [ sec : conclusion ] .",
    "we provide relevant issues , major challenges and applications as the background information for better understanding this field .",
    "scene flow estimation is an integrated task , which is relevant to multiple issues .",
    "firstly , optical flow is the projection of scene flow onto an image plane , which is the basis of scene flow and has made steady progress over the years . the basic framework and",
    "innovations of scene flow estimation mainly derives from optical flow estimation field .",
    "secondly , in a binocular setting , scene flow can be simply acquired by coupling stereo and optical flow , which makes the stereo matching an essential part for scene flow estimation .",
    "most scene flow estimation methods with promising performance are initialized with a robust optical flow method or a stereo matching method . and",
    "the innovation in scene flow mostly derived from these two fields .",
    "hence , we provides the changes and trend in the relevant issues as heuristic information .",
    "optical flow is a two - dimensional motion field .",
    "the global variational horn - schunck(h - s ) method and the local total - least - square(tls ) lucas - kanade(l - k ) method have led the optical flow field and scene flow field over the years  @xcite .",
    "early works was studied and categorized by barron and otte with quantitative evaluation models  @xcite .",
    "afterwards , brox implemented the coarse - to - fine strategy to deal with large displacement  @xcite , while sun studied the statistics of optical flow methods to find the best way for modeling  @xcite .",
    "baker proposed a thorough taxonomy of current optical flow methods and introduced the middlebury dataset for evaluation  @xcite , and comparisons between error evaluation methodologies , statistics and datasets are presented as well .",
    "currently , optical flow estimation has reached to a promising status . a segmentation - based method with the approximate nearest neighbor field to handle large displacement ranks the top of middlebury dataset in terms of both endpoint error(epe ) and average angular error(aae )",
    "currently  @xcite , where epe varies from 0.07@xmath1 to 0.41@xmath1 in different data and aae varies from 0.99@xmath2 to 2.39@xmath2 .",
    "a similar method reached promising results as well  @xcite .",
    "moreover , there are a variety of methods which achieve top - tier performance and solve different problems respectively .",
    "rushwan utilized a tensor voting method to preserve discontinuity  @xcite .",
    "xu introduced a novel extended coarse - to - fine optimization framework for large displacement  @xcite , while stoll combines the feature matching method with variational estimation to keep small displacement area from being compromised  @xcite .",
    "he also introduced a multi - frame method utilizing trilateral filter  @xcite . to handle non - rigid optical flow , li proposed a laplacian mesh energy formula which combines both laplacian deformation and mesh deformation  @xcite .",
    "stereo matching is essential to scene flow estimation under binocular setting .",
    "a stereo algorithm generally consists of four parts:(1 ) matching cost computation , ( 2 ) cost aggregation , ( 3 ) estimation and optimization and ( 4 ) refinement .",
    "it is categorized into local methods and global methods depending on how the cost aggregation and computation are performed .",
    "local methods suffer from the textureless region , while global methods is computationally expensive .",
    "a semi - global - matching(sgm ) method combines local smoothness and global pixel - wise estimation and leads to a dense matching result at low runtime  @xcite , which is commonly utilized as the modification .",
    "a comprehensive review is presented by scharstein in 2001  @xcite .",
    "the upper rank algorithms of middlebury stereo dataset and kitti stereo dataset  @xcite are mainly occupied by unpublished papers , indicating the rapid development in this field .",
    "learning methods are utilized with promising efficiency and accuracy  @xcite . besides",
    ", zhang proposed a mesh - based approach considering the high speed of rendering and ranks the top among the published papers  @xcite , while segmentation - based methods are proven to tackle the textureless problem  @xcite .",
    "the complex scene and the limited image capture approach post challenges in diverse ways , which are discussed as follows .",
    "what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object ?",
    "the relationship between accuracy and efficiency is just like the omnipotence paradox . to achieve better accuracy ,",
    "sufficient and complicated prior knowledge is obliged , while in terms of efficiency , the data need to be listed down to a reasonable scale and the calculation scheme should be as simple as possible .",
    "we can not only consider the enhancement of efficiency and accuracy , but also value the trade - off between these two .",
    "the trade - off is discussed in section  [ sec : discussion ] , and the performance is illustrated in figure  [ fig : accuracy - efficiency ] .",
    "occlusion is common in a complex scene with multiple moving objects .",
    "it occurs between views and frames as figure  [ fig : occlusion ] illustrates .",
    "it violates the data consistency assumption and may lead to mismatching on account of missing information of the occluded object .",
    "besides , occlusion may perturb the consistency between frames and affect the multi - frames tracking method .    [ htbp ]    the occlusion between views can be handled well under the multi - view stereopsis with abundant prior knowledge , while temporal constraint may provide robust temporal coherence and prediction to alleviate occlusion between frames .",
    "large displacement occurs frequently when an object is moving at a high speed or under a limited frame - rate .",
    "moreover , articulated motion may lead to large displacement as well .",
    "this kind of problem is hard to tackle on account that the scene flow algorithms normally assume the constancy and smoothness within a small region , large displacement may make the solution to energy function trapped into a local minimum which leads to enormous errors propagated by iteration procedure .",
    "brox implemented the coarse - to - fine method along with a gradient constancy assumption to alleviate the impact caused by large displacement in the optical flow field  @xcite .",
    "currently , several matching algorithms have been introduced to handle this issue specifically and achieved promising results  @xcite .",
    "brightness constancy does nt obey the illumination - varying environment .",
    "however , this issue is common in an outdoor scene , e.g. , drifting clouds that block the sunlight , sudden reflection from a window , and lens flares .",
    "furthermore , it will be a disaster at night when lights start to flash .",
    "in the optical flow field , additional assumptions such as gradient constancy and some more complicated constraints have been added to make it more robust to the illumination changes  @xcite .",
    "schuchert specifically studied range flow estimation under varying illumination  @xcite . in his paper , pre - filtering and changes of brightness model",
    "improve the accuracy .",
    "gotardo introduced an albedo consistency assumption as a revision  @xcite .",
    "a relighting procedure was proposed as a key element to handle the multiplexed situation in his paper as well .",
    "the lack of texture may make the scene flow estimation still an ill - posed problem , which is a challenge for discovering consistency .",
    "it is also a challenge to stereo matching , which may lead to enormous errors in the binocular - based scene flow estimation .",
    "the textureless region is still a major distribution of the estimation error .    to overcome this problem ,",
    "different scene representations have been utilized .",
    "for example , popham introduced a patch - based method  @xcite .",
    "the motion of each patch does nt only rely on the texture information , but utilizes the motion from neighbor patches .",
    "this makes it more robust for a textureless region . as a solution to the occlusion issue ,",
    "segmentation - based method is valid because it assumes uniform motion among the small regions to deal with the ambiguousness  @xcite .",
    "scene flow estimation is a comprehensive problem .",
    "motion information reveals the temporal coherence between two moments . in a long sequence",
    ", scene flow can be utilized to get the initial value for the next frame and serve as a constraint in its relevant issue fields .",
    "scene flow can not only profit from its relevant issues , but also facilitate them mutually .",
    "gotardo captured three - dimensional scene flow to provide delicate geometric details  @xcite , while liu utilized scene flow as a soft constraint for stereo matching and a prediction for next frame disparity estimation  @xcite .",
    "ghuffar combined local estimation and global regularization in a tls framework and utilized scene flow for segmentation and trajectory generation  @xcite .    beyond that",
    ", scene flow can be a valuable input or mobile robotics and autonomous driving field , which consist of multiple task such as obstacle avoidance and scene understanding .",
    "frank first fused optical flow and stereo by means of kalman filter for obstacle avoidance  @xcite .",
    "alcantarilla combined scene flow estimation with the visual slam to enhance the robustness and accuracy  @xcite .",
    "herbst got object segmentation with the rgb - d scene flow estimation result  @xcite , aiming to achieve autonomous exploration of indoor scenes .",
    "menze utilized scene flow to reason objects by regarding the scene as a set of rigid objects  @xcite .",
    "autonomous driving could make use of both the geometric information that represents distance and the scene flow information that represents motion for multiple tasks .    in addition",
    ", scene flow can be utilized to serve as a feature as the histogram of optical flow(hof )  @xcite or the motion boundary histogram(mbh )  @xcite feature descriptors for object detection and recognition , e.g. , facial expression , gesture , and body motion recognition .",
    "it may enrich the information in the descriptor with additional depth dimension and can be applied for motion like rotation or dolly moves that optical flow ca nt handle .",
    "for instance , in 2009 , furukawa recorded the motion model of the facial expression using scene flow estimation@xcite .",
    "scene flow estimation is viewed as an ill - posed problem , which includes three main steps : data acquisition , energy function modeling , energy minimization and optimization .",
    "the general taxonomy is depicted in figure  [ fig : overall ] .",
    "the energy function consists of data term and regularization as equation  [ eq : energy ] illustrates .",
    "@xmath3    data terms derive from different data sources assuming brightness constancy(bc ) or gradient constancy(gc ) as local constraint . while there are three unknown parameters ,",
    "regularization terms need to be added to regularize the ill - posed problem and provide spatial coherence .",
    "theoretically , the more regularization terms are , the more robust and accurate the estimation is .",
    "however , miscellaneous regularization terms may lead to redundancy , intractability and over - fitting , and that s why the design and solution of regularization term are key to a method .",
    "hence , in this section , existing methods are categorized in terms of three fundamental properties that distinguish the major algorithms : _ scene representation _ presented the diverse representations for both scene and scene flow .",
    "_ data source _ describes the major data acquisition manner and the corresponding data term choices .",
    "_ calculation scheme _ mainly discuss the idea for estimation and optimization manner , including diverse choices of regularization terms and implement .      over the years , diverse ways to represent",
    "the scene have emerged with different emphasis , which can be broadly categorized into _",
    "depth / disparity _ , _ point cloud _ , _ mesh _ and",
    "_ patch_.      the convenient way to represent the scene is to couple color image and depth map as color - d information , where d stands for depth information with rgb - d data or disparity information under a binocular setting .",
    "scene flow under this sort of representation is known as 2.5d scene flow or 2d parameterization of scene flow .",
    "it consists of optical flow component which is measured in pixels , and disparity or depth change component which is measured in pixels or @xmath4 .",
    "the binocular - based scene flow  @xcite can be presented as @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the 2d optical flow , and the @xmath7 stands for disparity change .",
    "likewise , in terms of rgb - d scene flow  @xcite , the motion field consists can be presented @xmath8 , where @xmath9 stands for the depth change .",
    "particularly , disparity value can be converted into depth value as equation  [ eq : disparitytodepth ] illustrates .",
    "@xmath10 where @xmath11 is the focal length of the camera , and @xmath12 is the camera baseline value .      to truly present the three - dimensional scene ,",
    "the image pixel need to be projected into the scene space .",
    "the projection is illustrated in figure  [ fig:3d - mapping ] and presented in equation  [ eq:3d - mapping ] .",
    "@xmath13 where @xmath14 is the image pixel @xmath15 , @xmath16 is the projection @xmath17 from a pixel value @xmath14 and a depth value @xmath18 to a 3d point @xmath19 . @xmath20 and @xmath21 stands for the camera focal length , and @xmath22 and @xmath23 are the principle points .",
    "formulation  [ eq:3d - mapping ] can also be presented as : @xmath24 where matrix @xmath25 is known as the camera projection matrix .",
    "hence , scene flow under point cloud representation  @xcite can be presented as @xmath26 , which truly reveal the three - dimensional displacement .",
    "meshes represent a surface as a set of planar polygons , e.g. , triangle , which connected to each other as is shown in figure  [ fig : mesh ] .",
    "this representation is a efficient way for rendering , and it occupies less memory .",
    "mesh is essentially sort of point cloud representation as the vertex can be viewed as a point in the three - dimensional point cloud .",
    "scene flow estimation methods with a mesh representation  @xcite are only under a multi - view setting and the geometry estimation is given simultaneously .",
    "the motion of vertice is solved with a point cloud methods , while the rest part are solved by interpolating along the meshes .      in terms of patch representation , the surface",
    "is represented by collections of small planar or sphere patches .",
    "each patch is six - dimensional in terms of three - dimensional patch center position and three - dimensional patch direction .",
    "patch representation is similar to mesh representation with different emphasis , where mesh representation focuses on the precision and deformable property of each vertex , and patch representation values the local consistency in terms of rigidity and motion within a small neighborhood region .",
    "early paper viewed patch as a surface element(surfel ) under a multi - view setting@xcite . a few binocular - based scene flow methods utilized patches to fit the surface of the scene  @xcite on account that this kind of patch - based methods are common in stereo matching field .",
    "in addition , hornacek uniquely exploited a pair of rgb - d data to seek patch correspondences in the 3d world space and leads to dense body motion field including both translation and rotation  @xcite .      over the years",
    ", scene flow has been estimated under three main kinds of data source : a calibrated multi - camera system , the binocular stereo camera or the rgb - d camera which consists of both rgb color information and depth information .",
    "moreover , the emerging light field has been applied into the scene flow estimation with promising performance  @xcite .",
    "data terms under different data sources differs from each other .",
    "hence , in this section , scene flow estimation methods are categorized into these four kinds : _ multi - view stereopsis _ , _ binocular setting _ , _ rgb - d data _ and _ light field data_.",
    "most of the algorithms in the early 2000s assume a multi - view system , with multiple cameras set in a complex calibrated scene .",
    "multi - view scene flow estimation is usually along with 3d geometry reconstruction simultaneously .",
    "ample data sources and diverse prior knowledge ensure the robustness of the estimation , and occlusion issue can be handled well .",
    "however , it is commonly at a high computational cost with an intricate full - view scene to deal with .",
    "vedula proposed two choices for regularization and distinguished three scenarios in 1999  @xcite , which guides the multi - view scene flow estimation till now . in his paper ,",
    "a multi - view scene flow can be estimated from one optical flow and the known surface geometry .",
    "the equation is formulated in equation  [ eq : vedula ] .",
    "@xmath27 where @xmath19 is the three - dimensional scene point , @xmath15 is the two - dimensional image pixel , @xmath28 is the scene flow , @xmath29 is the optical flow , and @xmath30 is the inverse jacobian which can be estimated from the surface gradient @xmath31 .",
    "afterwards , zhang proposed two systems for estimation  @xcite , where ims assumed each small patch undergoes 3d affine motion , and egs used segmentation to keep the boundary .",
    "these papers modeled energy function with multiple constraint , which provided a basic estimation process . similarly , pons presented a common variational framework with local similarity criteria constraint  @xcite .",
    "henceforth , different scene representations were introduced to describe the surface  @xcite .",
    "diverse multi - frame tracking methods mentioned for sparse estimation are utilized as well to build the temporal coherence  @xcite .",
    "moreover , letouzey added an rgb - d camera into the multi - view system with a mesh representation  @xcite , aiming to enrich the geometry information with the depth data constraint .",
    "binocular setting is regarded as a basic and simplified version of multi - view system , while the difference between the two is that binocular scene flow estimation is usually along with disparity estimation between two views but not the full - view 3d geometry knowledge .",
    "the relevance between views and frames is illustrated in figure  [ fig : binocular - a ] , and figure  [ fig : binocular - b ] depicts the basic data terms in a binocular setting which consists of stereo consistency terms in time @xmath32 and @xmath33 along with optical flow consistency terms in both views .",
    "the specific formulation is presented in equation  [ eq : binoculardataterms ] .",
    "@xmath34    where    [ eq : binoculardataterms ] @xmath35    @xmath36 and @xmath37 are the optical flow consistency terms that assume the brightness of the same pixel stay constant between frames . similarly , @xmath38 and @xmath39 are the stereo consistency terms that assume brightness constancy between views . moreover , @xmath40 is the cross term to constrain the constancy between both frames and views .",
    "most binocular - based methods fused stereo and optical flow estimation into a joint framework  @xcite . on the contrary , others decoupled motion from disparity estimation to estimate scene flow with stereo matching method replaceable at will  @xcite , and basha utilized a point cloud scene representation as a three - dimensional parametrization version of scene flow  @xcite .",
    "moreover , local rigidity prior was presented along with segmentation prior and achieved promising results  @xcite .",
    "specifically , valgaerts introduced a variational framework for scene flow estimation under an uncalibrated stereo setup by embedding an epipolar constraint  @xcite , which makes it possible for scene flow estimation under two arbitrary cameras . in 2016 , richardt has made it a reality to compute dense scene flow from two handheld cameras with varying camera settings  @xcite .",
    "scene flow was estimated under a variational framework with a daisy descriptor  @xcite for wide - baseline matching .",
    "table  [ tab : binoculardataterm ] enumerates some typical methods under a binocular setting with diverse choices of data terms .",
    "most methods chose optical flow consistency terms in both views and stereo consistency terms in both time @xmath32 and time @xmath33  @xcite , and few methods only take parts of terms mentioned above  @xcite .",
    "cross term was utilized in  @xcite .",
    "moreover , huguet  @xcite and hung  @xcite utilized additional gradient constancy assumption besides intensity to enhance robustness against illumination changes , which turns the image intensity value @xmath41 in energy function into image gradient @xmath42 . additionally , extra rgb constancy terms @xmath43 and @xmath44 are taken in hung s paper as well , which extends gray value intensity into three - channel information . however , it is proposed that image gradient is sensitive to noise and is view dependent  @xcite .",
    "hence , the necessity of additional assumptions like gradient constancy remains further research to balance the pros and cons .",
    ".typical methods under the binocular setting [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      we calculated the statistics of the ground truth optical flow in terms of average magnitude and the max magnitude to show the challenging level and large displacement situation of each dataset , as figure  [ fig : datasetstatistic ] presents . where the bigger the average magnitude and standard deviation are , the more challenging the dataset is , and the bigger the max magnitude is , the more a robust large displacement handling is required .",
    "[ htbp ]    we can see clearly that the up - to - date dataset is more challenging than datasets published before . along with information provided in table  [ tab : dataset ] , we provide suggestion for datasets with different purpose as follows : + * comprehensiveness * taken multiple issues , e.g. , categories of ground truth data , image resolution , challenging level , naturalism , scale , popularity , into consideration , we recommended mpi sintel dataset and freiburg dataset for their comprehensive property . +",
    "* challenging * flyingthings3d subset of freiburg dataset shows the characteristic of large displacement , complex occlusion and diverse changes between frames , which is really challenging for scene flow estimation .",
    "monkaa subset shows the similar characteristic which is recommended as well .",
    "+ * public popularity * middlebury , kitti(2012&2015 ) and mpi sintel dataset provide evaluation protocols and online ranking that can evaluate the performance of a method conveniently .",
    "moreover , the evaluation can be compared with top tier methods in optical flow estimation field and stereo matching field to indicate the superiority of scene flow estimation . +",
    "* multi - view and rgb - d data source * for multi - view stereopsis , basha rotating sphere and kitti2012/2015 provide multi - view extension for evaluation .",
    "to be noted , basha provides only point cloud scene flow ground truth for quantitative analysis , while the ground truth of kitti2012/2015 is sparse . in terms of rgb - d scene flow estimation ,",
    "mpi sintel dataset and basha rotating sphere dataset provides depth ground truth so that disparity - to - depth conversion is no need .",
    "in addition , long range of distance may make the depth map transferred from disparity map unclear for visualization , which make image - based algorithm hard to work .",
    "the provided depth visualization map is a good option .",
    "+ * large scale for learning * freiburg dataset is currently the only dataset with @xmath45 order of scale that is designed for training optical flow , disparity , and scene flow",
    ".      protocols usually varies from each other based on different datasets .",
    "the previous datasets like middlebury and rotating sphere usually use rmse / nrmse and aae for evaluation , while newly - introduced datasets like kitti , mpi sintel and freiburg utilize epe for evaluation .",
    "we recommend researchers to use epe as a overall protocol , while rmse and aae can be supplementary means that reveal error distribution and angular error . +",
    "* should we evaluate the 3d error ?",
    "* as equation  [ eq : errorprojection ] presents , the disparity in time @xmath33 or the disparity change do have influence on scene flow estimation .",
    "hence , we highly recommended that for 2d parametrization scene flow estimation methods , the accuracy of disparity @xmath33 or the disparity change should be evaluated and provided .",
    "considering the fact that equation  [ eq : nrmse - wedel ] and  [ eq : aae - wedel ] is rarely utilized , and rotating sphere of basha is the only dataset that provide three - dimension point cloud ground truth , we recommend researchers to provide epe for optical flow , disparity in time @xmath32 and time @xmath33 as a common protocol for scene flow evaluation .      with 17 years of development",
    ", scene flow estimation has reached a promising status , while there are still many issues remains to be solved . in this section , we discuss the limitation of existing datasets , and present a brief vision on modification of algorithms .",
    "the survey of existing evaluation methodologies reveals problems and limitations as elaborated below : + * size * on account that real - time scene flow has been achieved with gpu implementation , high resolution data can be introduced for more challenging work . + * ground truth * point cloud is the real three - dimensional parametrization representation for scene flow , which reveals the difference between scene flow and optical flow significantly .",
    "hence , the ground truth for scene flow under the point cloud representation is necessary .",
    "meanwhile , occlusion , textureless region and discontinuity region ground truth are essential for evaluation due to the fact that errors mainly exist near these regions . + *",
    "data source * current datasets mainly focus on scene flow under the binocular setting , while multi - view extension and specific datasets for rgb - d and light field based scene flow is required .",
    "otherwise , the properties of missing data in rgb - d cameras and the abilities like refocusing of light field cameras will be neglected with current datasets .",
    "+ * protocol * a protocol for evaluating performances under different datasets remains vacant .",
    "moreover , the three - dimensional protocol is nt been applied due to the limitation of point cloud ground truth .      by checking the error map provided by kitti benchmark",
    ", it s clear that inaccuracy mainly exists in the boundaries of objects .",
    "since this is a common issue for all computer vision tasks , edge - preserving and reasonable filtering is the first priority .",
    "gpu implementation has shown a great efficiency improvement , and the duality - based optimization has proved to enhance the efficiency of global variational methods without accuracy sacrifice . these kind of methods may be a routine in the future for better efficiency .    with the development of a robust and efficient estimation between two frames ,",
    "some papers have studied motion estimation under a long sequence  @xcite .",
    "the multi - fames estimation with temporal prior knowledges deserves more attention .",
    "a robust temporal constraint can benefit the methods with a better initial value or a better feature  @xcite to match .",
    "the challenges like varying illumination and occlusion can be handled with the help of it .",
    "the emerging learning based methods and light field technique has brought fresh blood to scene flow estimation .",
    "learning method with cnn shows an upward tendency in the relevant issues of scene flow estimation like stereo matching and optical flow with promising accuracy and computational cost  @xcite . with the help of the up - to - date large scale training dataset  @xcite",
    ", learning - based method has a profound potential to achieve an accurate and fast estimation .",
    "light field camera provides more data than existing data source , which brings diverse possibilities for this field .",
    "similar to the emergence of rgb - d cameras , this new source of data may lead to a new attractive branch .    on account of the fact that scene flow estimation relies highly on texture and intensity information",
    ", application will suffer in the night or an insufficient illumination circumstance .",
    "moreover , the car headlights and lighting on the building that are frequent in the autonomous driving scene may interfere motion estimation significantly .",
    "hence , the scene flow estimation with insufficient illumination is worth studying .",
    "this paper presents a comprehensive and up - to - date survey on both scene flow estimation methods and the evaluation methodologies for the first time after 17 years since scene flow was introduced .",
    "we have discussed most of the estimation methods so researchers could have a clear view of this field and get inspired for their studies of interest .",
    "the representative methods are highlighted so the differences between these methods are clear , and the similarities between top - tier methods can be seen as a tendency for modification .",
    "the widely used benchmarks have been analyzed and compared , so are multiple evaluation protocols .",
    "this paper provides sufficient information for researchers to choose the appropriate datasets and protocols for evaluating performance of their algorithms .",
    "there are still ample rooms for future research on accuracy , efficiency and multiple challenges .",
    "we wish our work could arise public interest in this field and bring it to a new stage .",
    "this work was supported by projects of national natural science foundation of china [ 61401113 ] ; and natural science foundation of heilongjiang province of china [ lc201426 ] .",
    "n.  mayer , e.  ilg , p.  husser , p.  fischer , d.  cremers , a.  dosovitskiy , t.  brox , a large dataset to train convolutional networks for disparity , optical flow , and scene flow estimation , arxiv preprint arxiv:1512.02134 .      c.  rabe , t.  muller , a.  wedel , u.  franke , dense , robust , and accurate motion field estimation from stereo image sequences in real - time , in : european conference on computer vision ( eccv ) , springer - verlag , 2010 , pp . 582595 .",
    "m.  jaimez , m.  souiai , j.  gonzalez - jimenez , d.  cremers , a primal - dual framework for real - time dense rgb - d scene flow , in : ieee international conference on robotics and automation ( icra ) , 2015 , pp .",
    "98104 .                o.  u.  n. jith , s.  a. ramakanth , r.  v. babu , optical flow estimation using approximate nearest neighbor field fusion , in : ieee international conference on acoustics , speech and signal processing ( icassp ) , 2014 , pp .",
    "6736577 .",
    "h.  a. rashwan , m.  a. garca , d.  puig , variational optical flow estimation based on stick tensor voting , ieee transactions on image processing a publication of the ieee signal processing society 22  ( 7 ) ( 2013 ) 25892599 .                      c.  zhang , z.  li , y.  cheng , r.  cai , h.  chao , y.  rui , meshstereo : a global stereo model with mesh alignment regularization for view interpolation , in : ieee international conference on computer vision ( iccv ) , 2015 , pp . 20572065 .",
    "f. alcantarilla , j.  j. yebes , j.  almaz , x00e , l.  m. bergasa , on combining visual slam and dense scene flow to increase the robustness of localization and mapping in dynamic environments , in : ieee international conference on robotics and automation ( icra ) , 2012 , pp .",
    "12901297 .",
    "a.  wedel , c.  rabe , t.  vaudrey , t.  brox , u.  franke , d.  cremers , efficient dense scene flow from sparse or dense stereo data , in : european conference on computer vision ( eccv ) , vol .",
    "5302 lncs , 2008 , pp . 739751 .",
    "y.  zhang , c.  kambhamettu , integrated 3d scene flow and structure recovery from multiview image sequences , in : ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , vol .  2 , 2000 , pp .",
    "674681 .",
    "d.  ferstl , c.  reinbacher , g.  riegler , r.  m , x00fc , ther , h.  bischof , atgv - sf : dense variational scene flow through projective warping and higher order regularization , in : international conference on 3d vision , vol .  1 , 2014 , pp .",
    "285292 .",
    "j.  park , t.  h. oh , j.  jung , y .- w .",
    "tai , i.  s. kweon , a tensor voting approach for multi - view 3d scene flow estimation and refinement , in : european conference on computer vision ( eccv ) , vol .",
    "7575 lncs , 2012 , pp . 288302 .",
    "r.  l. carceroni , k.  n. kutalakos , multi - view scene capture by surfel sampling : from video streams to non - rigid 3d motion , shape and reflectance , in : ieee international conference on computer vision ( iccv ) , vol .  2 , 2001 , pp .",
    "6067 vol.2 .",
    "j.  p. pons , r.  keriven , o.  faugeras , g.  hermosillo , variational stereovision and 3d scene flow estimation with statistical similarity measures , in : ieee international conference on computer vision ( iccv ) , 2003 , pp .",
    "597602 vol.1 .",
    "j.  p. pons , r.  keriven , o.  faugeras , multi - view stereo reconstruction and scene flow estimation with a global image - based matching score , international journal of computer vision 72  ( 2 ) ( 2007 ) 179193 .",
    "l.  valgaerts , a.  bruhn , h.  zimmer , j.  weickert , c.  stoll , c.  theobalt , joint estimation of motion , structure and geometry from stereo sequences , in : european conference on computer vision ( eccv ) , vol .",
    "6314 lncs , 2010 , pp .",
    "568581 .",
    "x.  zhang , d.  chen , z.  yuan , n.  zheng , dense scene flow based on depth and multi - channel bilateral filter , in : x.  zhang , d.  chen , z.  yuan , z.  hu ( eds . ) , asian conference on computer vision ( accv ) , 2012 , pp .",
    "140151 .",
    "m.  jaimez , m.  souiai , j.  st , x00fc , ckler , j.  gonzalez - jimenez , d.  cremers , motion cooperation : smooth piece - wise rigid scene flow from rgb - d images , in : international conference on 3d vision ( 3dv ) , 2015 , pp .",
    "6472 .",
    "m.  w. tao , s.  hadap , j.  malik , r.  ramamoorthi , depth from combining defocus and correspondence using light - field cameras , in : ieee international conference on computer vision ( iccv ) , 2013 , pp .",
    "673680 .",
    "v.  lempitsky , s.  roth , c.  rother , fusionflow : discrete - continuous optimization for optical flow estimation , in : computer vision and pattern recognition , 2008 .",
    "cvpr 2008 .",
    "ieee conference on , ieee , 2008 , pp .",
    "z.  lv , c.  beall , p.  f. alcantarilla , f.  li , z.  kira , f.  dellaert , a continuous optimization approach for efficient and accurate scene flow , in : european conference on computer vision , springer , 2016 , pp .",
    "757773 .",
    "a.  dosovitskiy , p.  fischer , e.  ilg , h.  p , xe , usser , c.  hazirbas , v.  golkov , p.  v.  d. smagt , d.  cremers , t.  brox , flownet : learning optical flow with convolutional networks , in : ieee international conference on computer vision ( iccv ) , 2015 , pp .",
    "27582766 .",
    "t.  vaudrey , c.  rabe , r.  klette , j.  milburn , differences between stereo and motion behavior on synthetic and real - world stereo sequences , in : international conference of image and vision computing new zealand ( ivcnz ) , 2008 , pp .",
    "16 .",
    "j.  gall , c.  stoll , e.  d. aguiar , c.  theobalt , b.  rosenhahn , h.  p. seidel , motion capture using joint skeleton tracking and surface estimation , in : ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2009 , pp ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper is the first to review the scene flow estimation field to the best of our knowledge , which analyzes and compares methods , technical challenges , evaluation methodologies and performance of scene flow estimation . </S>",
    "<S> existing algorithms are categorized in terms of scene representation , data source , and calculation scheme , and the pros and cons in each category are compared briefly . the datasets and evaluation protocols are enumerated , and the performance of the most representative methods is presented . </S>",
    "<S> a future vision is illustrated with few questions arisen for discussion . </S>",
    "<S> this survey presents a general introduction and analysis of scene flow estimation . </S>"
  ]
}