{
  "article_text": [
    "common quantum many - body models , such as the quantum ising model or hubbard models , include only a nearest neighbor interaction , while e.g. the coulomb forces or the dipole - dipole interactions have power law tails of the form @xmath0 .",
    "this leads to the core question : `` to what extent does the physics of these models changes when including decaying long - range interactions ? '' physical models with tunable long - range interactions have been successfully realized in recent experiments due to advances in atomic and molecular physics .",
    "this especially includes experiments in heteronuclear polar molecules in optical lattices @xcite and trapped ions @xcite .",
    "further examples for the realization of a long - range ising model are the cold ion experiment in @xcite realizing a two dimensional lattice and ultracold molecules with long - range dipole interactions , which have been successfully realized in recent experiments @xcite .",
    "furthermore , realizations in rydberg atoms through long - range van der waals interactions @xcite or solid state physics , e.g. based on @xmath1 @xcite , exist and provide a large number of spins , e.g. in comparison to ultracold ion experiments at the current stage . in addition",
    ", magnetic dipoles can lead to the same long - range interactions which have been realized in recent experiments in terms of chromium @xcite , erbium @xcite , and dysprosium @xcite , and further setups with long - range interactions tuned by optical cavities have been made @xcite , too .",
    "the list of experiments can be further extended with nitrogen vacancies in diamonds with a ferromagnetic long - range ising interaction @xcite .",
    "recent advances in quantum annealing have fostered the mapping of problems onto a generalized quantum ising model @xcite , which is a more general hamiltonian than the long - range interaction .",
    "this is as well the case for quantum spin glasses @xcite .",
    "these systems have in common that they can be described by two - state spin models with @xmath2 interactions coupled to external transverse fields , including the long - range quantum ising ( lrqi ) model .",
    "while the experimental systems range from implementations in one to three dimensions , we study a one - dimensional system , because our numerical techniques are best suited to this case .",
    "the recent work of several groups discussed new emerging phases due to long - range interaction @xcite and different regimes that hold or violate the lieb - robinson bounds , limiting the speed of transferring information , depending on the initial state @xcite .    for the numerical studies of many - body systems , tensor network methods",
    "offer a variety of algorithms tailored for certain problem sets @xcite .",
    "the infinite matrix product states ( imps ) @xcite on infinite translationally invariant lattices and the matrix product states ( mps ) for finite systems are well suited for the ground state calculations of quantum systems .",
    "dynamics can be simulated with the time - dependent variational principle for time evolution @xcite , where other methods as krylov or local runge - kutta where explored for comparison @xcite .",
    "the quantum ising model is not only fundamental because of the various experimental implementations mentioned , but also since it has a similar classical model in the ising model , originally introduced in 1925 @xcite with analytic solutions in one and two dimensions .",
    "moreover , the quantum model in @xmath3 dimensions can be mapped onto the classical ising model in @xmath4 dimensions ; the solution for the classical model in two dimensions is linked to our one dimensional quantum chain .",
    "therefore , it is an ideal starting ground to explore long - range interactions before including them into other models and has always been the toy model to explore a huge variety of methods before using them on other models since it is the description for a vast majority of physical problems .",
    "this includes methods such as the exact spectrum , perturbation theory , or the mapping of the ferromagnetic case to the corresponding classical ising model in higher dimension without using numerical methods .",
    "it is applicable to many problems that can be mapped into two - level systems and therefore accessible for researchers from fields as different as solid state physics and atomic , molecular , optical physics just mentioned before .",
    "while the experimental systems can be in higher dimension , we consider one dimensional spin chains with long - range interactions subjected to the external magnetic field in its transverse direction .",
    "from there , we lay out the discussions of static and dynamic simulations via tensor network methods for models with long - range interactions . numerical algorithms based on tensor networks perform optimally in one dimension and have limitations in higher dimension , although they have been proposed for two dimensional systems @xcite .",
    "however , the kibble - zurek mechanism yields a fascinating topic for the long - range quantum ising model in real time evolution ; for example , quenching across the critical point could be used for state preparation whenever it is easier to prepare the ground state in one phase .    as for the usual quantum ising ( qi ) chain ,",
    "that is integrable , both static properties such as the phase diagram , critical exponents or correlation lengths , and dynamic properties have been studied at length .",
    "the latter includes the kibble - zurek mechanism ( kzm ) being applied to show that the density of defects in the ferromagnetic chain follows a scaling law for linear quenches @xcite , i.e. the density of defects increases for faster quenches across the quantum critical point .",
    "those properties of the ising model have always paved the road to study other models . then , there appears a natural question : how do these long - range interactions affect the well - known results in the quantum ising model ?",
    "these answers are relevant to ultracold molecules with characteristic long - range dipole - dipole interactions or rydberg atoms with long - range interactions .",
    "therefore , we present the reader to the new results on the kibble - zurek scaling with the comparison of the static results using three different approaches .",
    "our analytical approach uses an approximation which truncates phase terms of the jordan - wigner transformation , and the two numerical algorithms cover infinite and finite systems . with those comparisons",
    "we see finite size effects as the lower critical external fields for decreasing systems sizes ; dynamic simulations are based on these results .",
    "we introduce the dynamics with experimentally measurable observables such as the local magnetization in fig .",
    "[ fig : dynmeasferro3d ] and compare the scaling with the kibble - zurek hypothesis .",
    "the kibble - zurek mechanism posits that for decreasing quench times , the defect density increases less for the ferromagnetic case in regard to the nearest - neighbor quantum ising model .",
    "in contrast , the number of defects stays at the same rate for the antiferromagnetic model for faster quenches in comparison to the quantum ising model . with the exponent of the kibble - zurek mechanism changing about @xmath5 in the ferromagnetic case",
    ", this should be an observable effect .",
    "apart from the predicition of defects when quenching across the quantum critical point for preparing states it might even allow for characterization of long - range effects according to the critical exponent .    throughout the paper we concentrate on both the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic case .",
    "moreover , we address the challenges with those studies , e.g. simulations breaking down in certain regimes of the long - range quantum ising .",
    "therefore , we use the open source matrix product states package ( osmps ) @xcite freely available from @xcite . as a secondary goal , we provide with those practical calculations and discussions on the numerical results a basis for future researchers to interpret their results on statics and dynamics gained with osmps or any other tensor network method library .",
    "the models suitable for further studies range from more advanced spin models of @xmath6-type to all kind of hubbard models .",
    "while static aspects such as the phase diagram of the long - range quantum ising model have been studied in the past @xcite , the antiferromagnetic case has been investigated recently by koffel  @xcite and extended in @xcite to the correlations .",
    "we add to these works the aspects of infinite size mps algorithms . a study in the thermodynamic limit with linked cluster expansions for both",
    "the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic case has been presented in @xcite .",
    "the dynamics of the long - range quantum ising chain has lately attracted a huge interest .",
    "the entanglement growth of a bipartition during a quench was described in @xcite .",
    "the speed of information spreading and the building of correlations was studied in @xcite and the equilibration time of long - range quantum spin models in @xcite .",
    "we not only extend the picture of dynamics in the long - range interaction in the ising model to the kibble - zurek hypothesis , but provide a detailed path how such aspects can be studied numerically keeping a side - by - side view of the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic cases .",
    "-magnetization as average over the sites of the measurement of @xmath7 , i.e. , @xmath8 , is a typical observable for spin models and realizable in cold ion experiments .",
    "the measurement during the quench from the paramagnetic phase to the to the ferromagnetic phase for different interaction strength governed by power law @xmath9 displayed for @xmath10 in steps of @xmath11 is compared to the nearest neighbor quantum ising ( qi , dashed curve ) .",
    "the triangles mark spots with first maximum of the gradient disregarding numerical fluctuations .",
    "the magnetization in @xmath12-direction is vanishing equally for all @xmath10 , since the quench is starting at @xmath13 and ending at @xmath14 .",
    "@xmath15 is the value of the quantum critical point which differs for each @xmath10 .",
    "we emphasize the unified dynamics of the quench independent of @xmath10 for the symmetric setup around the critical point .",
    "[ fig : dynmeasferro3d],width=307 ]    the structure of the paper is as follows : after introducing the hamiltonian of the long - range quantum ising model in sec .",
    "[ sec : ham ] , sec .",
    "[ sec : theo_approx ] presents the theoretical approximation for the phase boundary .",
    "the actual results are then discussed in sec .",
    "[ sec : phaseboundary ] containing the phase boundaries for all different methods used , the observables during the dynamics , and the kibble - zurek scaling for the long - range quantum ising model .",
    "we finish with the discussion of our results in the conclusion .",
    "the description of the numerical methods follows in the [ sec : methods ] and consists of the numerical algorithms used and the studies on their convergence . further aspects on the convergence can be found in [ sec : convmps ] .",
    "the system is modeled by the long - range quantum ising hamiltonian , @xmath16 where @xmath17 , @xmath18 are 1d lattice coordinates , @xmath19 and the unitless @xmath20 represent the strengths of the interaction and transverse field , respectively , and @xmath10 takes some positive value parametrizing the long - range interactions .",
    "examples for well - known models are coulombic interactions with @xmath21 , dipole - dipole interactions decreasing with @xmath22 , and @xmath23 for van der waals models and the tail of the lennard - jones potential . in the following , we investigate phase diagrams both for the ferromagnetic ( @xmath24 ) and antiferromagnetic ( @xmath25 ) cases in eq .",
    "( [ eq : lrqi_h ] ) . the long - range quantum ising model in eq .",
    "( [ eq : lrqi_h ] ) reduces to the usual quantum ising hamiltonian in the limit of @xmath26 , @xmath27 which exhibits a quantum phase transition at @xmath28 both in ferro- and antiferromagnetic cases . for @xmath29",
    "we have in both cases the paramagnetic phase where spins align with the external field in the limit @xmath30 .",
    "the ferromagnetic phase appears for @xmath31 where the ground state is described for @xmath32 by a @xmath33 symmetric ground state @xmath34 subject to spontaneous symmetry breaking .",
    "the antiferromagnetic ground state has a staggered order in @xmath35-direction @xmath36 referred to as nel order .",
    "the hamiltonian of the long - range quantum ising in eq .",
    "( [ eq : lrqi_h ] ) builds the foundation of the following work and the standard quantum ising from eq .",
    "( [ eq : qi_h ] ) is used frequently to check limits .    a common approach to quantum many - body systems are critical exponents .",
    "these universal scaling laws do not depend on the system size and describe quantities as a function of the distance to the quantum critical point @xcite .",
    "one typical example for such a quantity is the correlation length in the system .",
    "we relate to the critical exponents in the analysis of the kibble - zurek scaling , where @xcite gives a review of the link between the critical exponents and the crossing of a quantum critical point in a quench .",
    "this setup is describes by the critical exponent @xmath37 and the dynamical critical exponent @xmath35 .",
    "the more detailed description is included in [ sec : dynamics ] .",
    "having a general overview of the long - range quantum ising model , we now derive a well - controlled analytic approximation to rely on .",
    "this is important to have a comparison to the numerical results introduced later . in general , the long - range quantum ising problem is not exactly solvable like the nearest neighbor case , but a truncation of the phase terms in the jordan - wigner transformation regains a long - range fermion model along the kitaev model , which allows us to approximate the critical transverse field for quantum phase transitions , @xmath15 .",
    "we show the derivation of the critical transverse fields with the use of the jordan - wigner transformation @xcite and a truncation approximation .",
    "the derivation can be divided into two steps .",
    "first , we use the jordan - wigner transformation to map our spin hamiltonian onto fermions .",
    "the jordan - wigner transformation is a non - local mapping from spins onto fermions , and fermions onto spins , where the non - locality of the transformation is necessary to obey the corresponding commutation relations . in the case of a nearest neighbor spin hamiltonian ,",
    "the result of the jordan - wigner transformation is a nearest - neighbor fermion hamiltonian where the non - local terms of the transformation cancelled each other .",
    "in contrast , long - range spin hamiltonians are mapped into long - range fermion hamiltonians with @xmath38-body interactions of arbitrarily large @xmath38 .",
    "after the truncation in the second step , we obtain a kitaev - type hamiltonian with long - range two - body interactions , which has been solved exactly in @xcite . the kitaev hamiltonian is itself important as it describes spinless fermions with p - wave pairing interactions and displays topological states @xcite . for a complete picture",
    "we show both steps to derive the theoretical boundary . in the following ,",
    "we rewrite the long - range quantum ising hamiltonian in one dimension from eq .",
    "( [ eq : lrqi_h ] ) with a general site dependent coupling @xmath39 : @xmath40 and keep a constant in front of the external field in order to have a unitless @xmath20 .",
    "this general equation describes a variety of different models starting from a quantum spin glass with random @xmath39 originally proposed as classical model @xcite , over the completly connected case with @xmath41 for all @xmath42 which is equivalent to a special case of the lipkin - meshkov - glick model @xcite ranging to _ chimera _ setup in the d - wave quantum annealing computers @xcite with a limited number of interaction to other qubits .",
    "this hamiltonian reduces to our long - range quantum ising model with @xmath43 , while to the usual quantum ising model with @xmath44 . in order to use the jordan - wigner transformation",
    ", we have to rotate our coordinate system around the @xmath45-axis mapping @xmath46 and @xmath47 following the idea in @xcite .",
    "we obtain @xmath48 where the minus sign of the transformation cancels out appearing as a pair in the interaction term .",
    "the jordan - wigner transformation , that exactly solves the usual quantum ising model , is given by @xmath49 where @xmath50 , @xmath51 are annihilation and creation operators for spinless fermions satisfying the anticommutation relations . applying the jordan - wigner transformation , we can rewrite the hamiltonian eq .",
    "( [ eq : h_gqirot ] ) with the fermionic operators , @xmath52 note that for the nearest - neighbor potentials , like in the usual quantum ising model , there are no operator products in terms of the index @xmath53 , thus the hamiltonian becomes quadratic in the fermionic operators , reducing to the well - known jordan - wigner transformed quantum ising model .",
    "the approximation step replaces the operator products @xmath54 in the interaction term of the hamiltonian running over the index @xmath53 with an identity .",
    "this is equivalent with truncating fermionic operators up to quadratic order to obtain an analytically solvable form and the reason behind calling it a truncated jordan - wigner approach .",
    "we continue with @xmath55 this hamiltonian corresponds to the long - range kitaev model exactly solved in @xcite .",
    "our truncation approximation becomes exact only for the nearest - neighbor potentials .",
    "in general , it becomes better for ferromagnetic states , since they satisfy @xmath56 , where @xmath57 refers to the rotated hamiltonian in eq .",
    "( [ eq : h_gqirot ] ) .",
    "we perform a standard fourier transform and bogoliubov transform @xcite , which completes the diagonalization of eq .",
    "( [ h_trun ] ) with the result , @xmath58 where the excitation spectrum @xmath59 is given by @xmath60 with cosine and sine transforms of the potential where we replaced @xmath61 with the distance @xmath62 valid for the long - range quantum ising model @xmath63 respectively .",
    "the excitation spectrum eq .",
    "( [ exspec ] ) could have a gapless @xmath64-point ( @xmath65 ) at the critical field @xmath66 and a gapless @xmath67-point ( @xmath68 ) at @xmath69 though it depends on details of the potentials as to whether or not the spectrum exhibits the gapless points .",
    "for ferromagnetic long - range interaction , @xmath70 with @xmath71 , we have a gapless @xmath64-point at @xmath72 where @xmath73 is the riemann zeta function .",
    "in contrast , for antiferromagnetic long - range interaction , @xmath74 , we have a gapless @xmath67-point at @xmath75 we remark that for the usual quantum ising model with @xmath76 , we expect a gapless @xmath64-point at @xmath77 in the ferromagnetic case , and a gapless @xmath67-point at @xmath77 in the antiferromagnetic case .",
    "our first result for the phase boundary is obtained analytically . in sec .  [",
    "sec : theo_approx ] we used the jordan - wigner transformation , which solves the nearest - neighbor quantum ising chain exactly , for the long - range quantum ising leading to an infinite series of fermionic operators .",
    "we truncate such series to obtain analytic estimates for the critical magnetic fields and recall the results from eqs .",
    "( [ eq : hc_fm ] ) and ( [ eq : hc_afm ] ) @xmath78 for the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cases , respectively .",
    "we compare this to the numerical values of the critical field @xmath15 discussed thoroughly in [ sec : statics ] . in fig .",
    "[ fig : phaseboundaries ] we show the phase boundaries for the different methods , where the results of the kitaev model from sec .",
    "[ sec : theo_approx ] corresponds to the solid blue curves .",
    "we observe as a first trend that in the ferromagnetic long - range quantum ising chain , as @xmath10 decreases , that is , as the potential becomes more strongly long - range , the ferromagnetic phase becomes more favorable : the negative energy contribution from the ferromagnetic ordering increases in its absolute value . on the other hand , in the antiferromagnetic long - range quantum ising chain , the antiferromagnetic phase becomes less favorable for smaller values of @xmath10 because the long - range potential induces more frustration in the staggered ordering .",
    "next , we perform numerical simulations to estimate the critical lines more accurately .    during the numerical simulations we follow two different paths .",
    "first we use the infinite matrix product state algorithm @xcite to search for a translationally invariant ground state for a unit cell of @xmath79 sites .",
    "we search for this kind of ground state of the hamiltonian in eq .",
    "( [ eq : lrqi_h ] ) , which fulfills translational invariance in the thermodynamic limit for any @xmath79 , for @xmath80 .",
    "the energy is minimized via variational methods and the strong finite size effects at the boundaries due to the long - range interactions are avoided .",
    "second , we consider finite size systems with a number of sites @xmath81 and approximate the critical point in the thermodynamic limit @xmath82 via finite size scaling . on the one hand",
    "this is an appropriate check on the results . on the other hand ,",
    "we use finite size systems for the dynamics later on and provide a prediction for finite size effects commonly present in quantum simulators . to identify the critical point we keep @xmath10 and @xmath19 fixed and iterate over the transverse field @xmath20 . the von - neumann entropy as a function of the external field has a maximum located at the critical value of the external field @xmath15 . for the nearest - neighbor model",
    "the critical point can be found based that the area law for entanglement is violated for gapless states @xcite , where the entanglement is measured with the von neumann entropy .",
    "although long - range models may in general violate this area away from the critical point , we take the same approach knowing that the ground state obeys the area law for the two limiting cases @xmath83 and @xmath30 .",
    "the ising model has a closing gap around the critical point and therefore the von - neumann entropy @xmath84 can be used as indicator for the quantum critical point @xmath85 where @xmath86 are the singular values squared of the schmidt decomposition of the system and @xmath87 is the maximum bond dimension controlling the truncation of the hilbert space . in the finite size systems , the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrices",
    "correspond to @xmath88 when splitting into a bipartition .",
    "the entropy and the entanglement have a unique extremum at the phase transition which must coincident with the closing gap and can be used for this reason .",
    "an alternative approach would be to use the correlation length of the system or the maximal gradient in the magnetization , both with respect to the external field .",
    "we explore the critical behavior of the infinite chain ( triangles ) and the finite size scaling results ( diamonds ) in fig .  [",
    "fig : phaseboundaries ] .    in conclusion ,",
    "the relative difference between the imps and the theoretical estimate is bound by @xmath89 ( @xmath90 ) for the ferromagnetic ( antiferromagnetic ) model considering @xmath91 .",
    "the relative difference for two arbitrary values @xmath12 and @xmath92 is defined as @xmath93 . the actual trend with the difference between imps and the theory curve vanishing in the limit @xmath94 reflects the analysis in sec .  [",
    "sec : theo_approx ] .",
    "further we state that the relative difference between imps and finite size scaling results are below @xmath89 ( @xmath95 ) .",
    "the details on the finite size scaling are described in [ sec : statics ] .",
    "we now turn our focus to the dynamics of the long - range quantum ising model .",
    "we analyze the quench through the quantum critical point by means of finite systems .",
    "we first analyze measurable observables during the quench and then determine the kibble - zurek scaling according to the final state , that is a power - law describing the generation of defects as a function of the quench time and a critical exponent .",
    "the linear quench for a time dependent external field is defined as @xmath96 and replaces the coupling @xmath20 in eq .",
    "( [ eq : lrqi_h ] ) .",
    "@xmath97 is the total time of the quench .",
    "we quench from @xmath98 to @xmath99 . when considering our observables during the quench , we stay close to experimentally realizable measurements . in fig .",
    "[ fig : dynmeasferro3d ] we presented the average magnetization @xmath100 @xmath101 this is e.g. measurable in cold ion experiments @xcite .",
    "we choose to plot the magnetization in the @xmath12-direction which is measurable in the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic case , and can not average out in the simulations due to superpositions , e.g. the ferromagnetic ground state @xmath94 , and @xmath102 : @xmath103 has no net magnetization for a local measurement of @xmath104 .",
    "we note in fig .",
    "[ fig : dynmeasferro3d ] for @xmath105 the steep gradient around @xmath106 , which corresponds to the critical value for the transverse field in the ferromagnetic case treated here .",
    "therefore , we extract the first maximum of the gradient disregarding all minor fluctuations and plot them over @xmath10 in fig .  [",
    "fig : phaseboundariesdyn ] .",
    "we see a similarity to the critical value of the transverse field from the static calculations for big @xmath97 , while for faster quenches the deviation from the static result increases .",
    "we present the analogous analysis for the antiferromagnetic case as well in fig .",
    "[ fig : phaseboundariesdyn ] . for faster quenches",
    "the maximal gradient is again below the static result leading to the assumption that this effect is due to a delay during which the system takes time to react .",
    "the antiferromagentic case shows in addition an effect as a function of @xmath10 : longer - range interactions exhibit an extra delay in their maximum gradient . if we consider the antiferrromagnetic quench for @xmath107 in fig .",
    "[ fig : phaseboundariesdyn ] ( a ) , the maximum of the gradient moves from @xmath108 for @xmath109 to values of @xmath110 for @xmath111 .",
    "one suggestion to explain this is the concurrent spin configuration in the staggered order in the antiferromagnet which grows for smaller @xmath10 and might cause this extra delay to establish an antiferromagnetic state .",
    "the results on this analysis vary if the quench scheme is not symmetric around the critical point @xmath15 .",
    "next , we present results for a non - global spin measurement .",
    "such a measurement of a single spin in an optical lattice is technically possible @xcite and can be realized in cold ion experiments , too . in fig .",
    "[ fig : dynmeasantiferrocorrxx3d ] we show the nearest neighbor spin - spin correlation in the @xmath35-direction for the antiferromagnetic case as a function of time and site in the system . as mentioned above , local measurements of @xmath112 average out due to symmetry apart from numerical fluctuations .",
    "correlations grow during the quench , and finite system boundary effects are visible at both ends of the chain .",
    "the total quench time is @xmath113 , the system size @xmath114 , and @xmath115 in this example , corresponding to dipole - dipole interactions .",
    "pictsdynmeasantiferrocorrxx3d.pdf ( 36,10)@xmath116 ( 91,17)@xmath116    now we turn to the kibble - zurek hypothesis in the quenches already discussed above .",
    "the kibble - zurek mechanism @xcite predicts a scaling of the defects in the quantum system as a function of the quench time @xmath97 .",
    "we recall that the scaling for the nearest - neighbor ising model is @xcite : @xmath117 where we use @xmath118 for the defect density , and @xmath37 and @xmath35 for the critical exponents .",
    "we have already considered a one - dimensional system in eq .",
    "( [ eq : nnkzmscaling ] ) . furthermore , eq .",
    "( [ eq : nnkzmscaling ] ) and the following analysis applies only to linear quenches defined over @xmath119 , but extensions for the kibble - zurek scaling to non - linear quenches are possible @xcite . plugging in the critical exponents for the nearest neighbor quantum ising model with @xmath120 and @xmath121 we obtain @xmath122 .",
    "the exponent @xmath123 is a checkpoint for the calculations in the nearest - neighbor limit @xmath94 .",
    "the match between theory and experiment does depend on the experimental realization , but yields all over a power law for the defects according to the review in @xcite .",
    "we are interested in how much the exponent changes when tuning @xmath10 for the long - range interactions and how it deviates from the @xmath123 in the nearest - neighbor case .",
    "we estimate the exponent @xmath124 in the proceeding analysis which is defined as @xmath125 although the scaling can be used in more general cases , we restrict ourselves to the linear quenches crossing the quantum phase transition located at the critical value @xmath15 analyzed in the previous section  [ sec : phaseboundary ] .",
    "this quench scheme starting at twice the critical value was discussed in eq .",
    "( [ eq : linquenchh ] ) .",
    "the quench starts in the paramagnetic phase and ends in the ferromagnetic / antiferromagnetic phase .",
    "when we are considering the ferromagnetic ground state , the number of defects corresponds to the number of kinks , respectively domain walls , and we use the defect density @xmath118 defined as the number of kinks per unit length and introduced in detail in [ sec : methods ] , eq .",
    "( [ eq : defectdensity ] ) . expressing @xmath118 in terms of the kinks",
    "is constrained to the final point of the quench @xmath126 , where the measure is best defined , as the defects are clearly identifiable in terms of the kinks . the data in fig .",
    "[ fig : kzmferroex ] , is obtained from simulations based on systems with @xmath114 and evolution with the time - dependent variational principle ( tdvp ) @xcite at @xmath127 .",
    "we expect that the critical exponent @xmath124 approaches @xmath128 in the limits @xmath94 and @xmath82 resulting in the ferromagnetic nearest - neighbor quantum ising model in the thermodynamic limit .",
    "the error bars are the standard deviation for @xmath124 of the fit for the different @xmath97 s .",
    "examples for the fit are shown it does not contain the truncation or methodical error of the time evolution method . from the two curves with the different bond dimensions we deduce that certain simulations fail , resulting in a large standard deviation in the fitting procedure .",
    "we consider those points with large standard deviation as a failure of convergence since another set of simulations with a slighlty different bond dimension fit into the trend of converged points and have an equally small standard deviation .",
    "the critical exponent grows for increasing values of @xmath10 , meaning if we double the quench velocity for two systems with different long - range interactions , the number of defects increases more slowly in the system governed by longer - range interactions .",
    "but as we show in [ sec : dynamics ] , longer - range systems have initially a higher defect density as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : kzmfit ]",
    ".    however , these results just discussed for the ferromagnetic case are not true for the antiferromagnetic model .",
    "the critical exponent stays constant independent of the long - range interaction .",
    "the deviation from the nearest neighbor case @xmath129 should be due to finite size effects .",
    "but we know from fig .",
    "[ fig : kzmfit ] that the density of defects is again higher for longer range interactions .",
    "the defect density of the antiferromagnetic model is defined analogously to the ferromagnetic model : a missing kink in the staggered order is one defect .",
    "in this study we have established that the introduction of long - range interactions changes the physics of one - dimensional quantum spin systems non - trivially as observed in various aspects of the statics and the defect density and therefore merits further attention .",
    "this is not limited to the quantum ising model , e.g. the bose - hubbard and many other models could be discussed under the influence of the long - range interactions such as dipole - dipole interactions . we summarize first the results from our study of the long - range quantum ising model and then raise open problems associated with long - range quantum physics .",
    "we have presented multiple aspects of long - range quantum ising model , e.g. the kibble - zurek scaling , which lead to a better understanding of physical systems with long - range interactions , e.g. the scaling of generated defects during the quench through a quantum critical point .",
    "for the ferromagnetic case we find a slower increasing defect density in comparison to the nearest neighbor limit when increasing the quench velocity . the defect density is higher in comparison to the nearest neighbor model for the same quench time .",
    "our simulations give a detailed picture of the critical value of the transverse field in the thermodynamic limit using infinite matrix product states along with a practical guidance how to resolve issues introduced to degeneracy in those systems .",
    "we presented as well the alternative to the infinite size algorithm using finite size scaling methods to obtain the value of the critical external field in the thermodynamic limit .",
    "this uncovers the finite - size effects , which will certainly be present in experiments with small system sizes .",
    "the relative difference for the value of the critical point between @xmath130 and @xmath131 is approximately @xmath132 for the antiferromagnetic case for @xmath22 . the same comparison for the ferromagnetic yields a relative difference of around @xmath133 .",
    "the imps and finite size scaling phase boundaries are supported by an approximative analytical result using a truncated jordan - wigner transformation approach in combination with the kitaev model .",
    "we introduced the dynamics of the long - range quantum ising model through local and global observables during a quench from the paramagnetic phase into the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic phases crossing the critical point .",
    "we related those measurements to the actual quantum critical point through the maximum of the gradient of average global magnetization in the @xmath12-direction and analyzed how this is affected by the total time of the quench .",
    "finally , we evaluated the scaling of defects in the kibble - zurek scenario leading to the result of a slowly increasing ( constant ) defect density at the end for increasing quench velocity in comparison to the nearest neighbor limit of the ferromagnetic ( antiferromagnetic ) long - range quantum ising model .",
    "this is reflected in the exponent of the kibble - zurek scaling , e.g. in the ferromagnetic case we observe exponents in the range from @xmath134 to @xmath135 for power law exponents @xmath136 , where @xmath129 is the limit of the nearest neighbor quantum ising model in the thermodynamic limit .",
    "having concluded our study , we point out open problems that can be addressed in future research . as indicated by the list of the recent studies concerning the dynamics of the long - range quantum ising model @xcite , static physics has been well explored @xcite , but near - equilibrium dynamics such as the kibble - zurek hypothesis remain largely unknown , let alone far - from - equilibrium dynamics .",
    "one aspect which could be explored in statics and dynamics is the extension to two or higher dimensional systems which we have excluded due to the limitation of mps algorithms to one spatial dimension for studies of this kind .",
    "two - dimensional setups allow more options for quantum computation to apply gates @xcite . in the case of the antiferromagnetic case",
    "triangular lattices can lead to the similar concurrence of the staggered order than for long - range interactions in the one - dimensional case . while two - dimensional systems might be accessible through simulations with tensor network methods such as projected entangled pair states ( peps ) @xcite",
    ", this route seems to be more accessible for experiments for any of the models mentioned before .",
    "discrete truncated wigner methods are another tool to approach two - dimensional systems with numerical simulations @xcite .",
    "a further path starting from here is the investigation of dynamical phase diagrams .",
    "where recent studies treat e.g. binary pulses in regards to interaction and transverse field of the quantum ising model @xcite , further possibilities considering time - dependent periodic long - range interactions arise .",
    "one study obtaining a dynamical phase diagram for the long - range quantum ising chain in the infinite limit using imps is @xcite .",
    "so called completely interacting models at @xmath137 form another topic for research .",
    "we have shown that the long - range quantum ising model is a good starting point for any kind of long - range study , but many other models may show new behaviors when including long - range interactions .",
    "we think here of the generalization of the quantum ising in terms of the @xmath138-model with a realization in rydberg systems @xcite or the @xmath6-model as realized in polyatomic molecules @xcite .",
    "furthermore , this includes hubbard models such as the bose - hubbard model , fermi - hubbard model as they appear e.g. for molecules . for macroscopic quantum tunneling in the bose - hubbard model @xcite results might change if the distance of the long - range interaction is larger than the width of the barrier .",
    "other problems suitable for extension to long - range interactions include the quantum rotor model and the bilinear biquadratic spin - one hamiltonian @xcite .",
    "we acknowledge useful discussions with jad  c.  halimeh , gavriil  shchedrin , and david  l.  vargas . this work has been supported by the national science foundation under grant numbers phy-120881 and phy-1520915 and the afosr grant fa9550 - 14 - 1 - 0287 .",
    "the calculations were carried out using the high performance computing resources provided by the golden energy computing organization at the colorado school of mines .",
    "10    lincoln  d carr , david demille , roman  v krems , and jun ye .",
    "cold and ultracold molecules : science , technology and applications . , 11(5):055049 , 2009 .",
    "david demille .",
    "diatomic molecules , a window onto fundamental physics . , 68(12):3440 , 2015 .",
    "r.  blatt and c.  f. roos .",
    "quantum simulations with trapped ions . , 8(4):277284 , apr 2012 .",
    "j.  g. bohnet , b.  c. sawyer , j.  w. britton , m.  l. wall , a.  m. rey , m.  foss - feig , and j.  j. bollinger . . ,",
    "352:12971301 , jun 2016 .",
    "b.  neyenhuis , b.  yan , s.  a. moses , j.  p. covey , a.  chotia , a.  petrov , s.  kotochigova , j.  ye , and d.  s. jin . . ,",
    "109:230403 , dec 2012 .",
    "peter  k. molony , philip  d. gregory , zhonghua ji , bo  lu , michael  p. kppinger , c.  ruth le  sueur , caroline  l. blackley , jeremy  m. hutson , and simon  l. cornish . .",
    ", 113:255301 , dec 2014 .",
    "johannes zeiher , peter schau , sebastian hild , tommaso macr , immanuel bloch , and christian gross . .",
    ", 5:031015 , aug 2015 .",
    "h.  labuhn , d.  barredo , s.  ravets , s.  de lsleuc , t.  macr , t.  lahaye , and a.  browaeys .",
    "tunable two - dimensional arrays of single rydberg atoms for realizing quantum ising models . , 534(7609):667670 , jun 2016 .",
    "letter .",
    "d.  m. silevitch , g.  aeppli , and t.  f. rosenbaum .",
    "switchable hardening of a ferromagnet at fixed temperature .",
    ", 107:2797 , 2010 .",
    "b.  naylor , m.  brewczyk , m.  gajda , o.  gorceix , e.  marchal , l.  vernac , and b.  laburthe - tolra . .",
    ", 117:185302 , oct 2016 .",
    "l.  chomaz , s.  baier , d.  petter , m.  j. mark , f.  wchtler , l.  santos , and f.  ferlaino . . ,",
    "6:041039 , nov 2016 .",
    "yijun tang , nathaniel  q burdick , kristian baumann , and benjamin  l lev . .",
    ", 17(4):045006 , 2015 .",
    "n.  dogra , f.  brennecke , s.  d. huber , and t.  donner . . , 94:023632 ,",
    "aug 2016 .",
    "bo - bo wei , christian burk , jrg wrachtrup , and ren - bao liu .",
    "magnetic ordering of nitrogen - vacancy centers in diamond via resonator - mediated coupling .",
    ", 2:18 , 2015 .",
    "andrew lucas . .",
    ", 2:5 , 2014 .",
    "wenhao wu , b.  ellman , t.  f. rosenbaum , g.  aeppli , and d.  h. reich . from classical to quantum glass .",
    ", 67:20762079 , oct 1991 .",
    "renate landig , lorenz hruby , nishant dogra , manuele landini , rafael mottl , tobias donner , and tilman esslinger .",
    "quantum phases from competing short- and long - range interactions in an optical lattice .",
    ", 532(7600):476479 , apr 2016",
    ". letter .",
    "lea  f. santos , fausto borgonovi , and giuseppe  luca celardo . . ,",
    "116:250402 , jun 2016 .",
    "u  schollwck . .",
    ", page 118 , aug 2011 .",
    "i.  p. mcculloch . .",
    ", apr 2008 .",
    "jutho haegeman , christian lubich , ivan oseledets , bart vandereycken , and frank verstraete .",
    "unifying time evolution and optimization with matrix product states .",
    ", 94:165116 , oct 2016 .",
    "m  l wall and lincoln  d carr .",
    "out - of - equilibrium dynamics with matrix product states .",
    ", 14(12):125015 , 2012 .",
    "michael  p. zaletel , roger s.  k. mong , christoph karrasch , joel  e. moore , and frank pollmann .",
    "time - evolving a matrix product state with long - ranged interactions .",
    ", 91:165112 , apr 2015 .",
    "ernst ising .",
    "beitrag zur theorie des ferromagnetismus .",
    ", 31(1):253258 , 1925 .    verstraete f. , murg v. , and cirac j.i .",
    "matrix product states , projected entangled pair states , and variational renormalization group methods for quantum spin systems .",
    ", 57(2):143224 , 2008 .",
    "wojciech  h. zurek , uwe dorner , and peter zoller . . , 95:105701 , sep 2005 .",
    "lukasz cincio , jacek dziarmaga , marek  m. rams , and wojciech  h. zurek .",
    "entropy of entanglement and correlations induced by a quench : dynamics of a quantum phase transition in the quantum ising model .",
    ", 75:052321 , may 2007 .",
    "adolfo del campo , marek  m. rams , and wojciech  h. zurek . assisted finite - rate adiabatic passage across a quantum critical point : exact solution for the quantum ising model .",
    ", 109:115703 , sep 2012 .    .",
    "sourceforge.net / projects / openmps/.    amit dutta and j.  k. bhattacharjee .",
    "phase transitions in the quantum ising and rotor models with a long - range interaction . , 64:184106 , oct 2001 .    thomas koffel , m.  lewenstein , and luca tagliacozzo . . ,",
    "109:267203 , dec 2012 .",
    "davide vodola , luca lepori , elisa ercolessi , and guido pupillo . .",
    ", 18(1):015001 , 2016 .",
    "sebastian fey and kai  phillip schmidt .",
    "critical behavior of quantum magnets with long - range interactions in the thermodynamic limit .",
    "94:075156 , aug 2016 .    j.  schachenmayer , b.  p. lanyon , c.  f. roos , and a.  j. daley . .",
    ", 3:031015 , sep 2013 .",
    "jens eisert , mauritz van  den worm , salvatore  r. manmana , and michael kastner . .",
    ", 111:260401 , dec 2013 .",
    "philip richerme , zhe - xuan gong , aaron lee , crystal senko , jacob smith , michael foss - feig , spyridon michalakis , alexey  v. gorshkov , and christopher monroe .",
    "non - local propagation of correlations in quantum systems with long - range interactions .",
    "511(7508):198201 , jul 2014 . letter .",
    "p.  hauke and l.  tagliacozzo . .",
    ", 111:207202 , nov 2013 .",
    "mohammad  f. maghrebi , zhe - xuan gong , michael foss - feig , and alexey  v. gorshkov .",
    "causality and quantum criticality in long - range lattice models .",
    ", 93:125128 , mar 2016 .",
    "michael kastner .",
    "diverging equilibration times in long - range quantum spin models .",
    ", 106:130601 , mar 2011 .",
    "subir sachdev . .",
    "cambridge university press , 2nd edition , 2011 .",
    "anatoli polkovnikov , krishnendu sengupta , alessandro silva , and mukund vengalattore .",
    "_ colloquium _ : nonequilibrium dynamics of closed interacting quantum systems . , 83:863883 ,",
    "aug 2011 .",
    "p.  jordan and e.  wigner .",
    "ber das paulische quivalenzverbot . , 47(9):631651 , 1928 .",
    "davide vodola , luca lepori , elisa ercolessi , alexey  v. gorshkov , and guido pupillo . . ,",
    "113:156402 , oct 2014 .",
    "a  yu kitaev .",
    "unpaired majorana fermions in quantum wires .",
    ", 44(10s):131 , 2001 .",
    "david sherrington and scott kirkpatrick . .",
    ", 35:17921796 , dec 1975 .",
    "lipkin , n.  meshkov , and a.j .",
    "validity of many - body approximation methods for a solvable model : ( i ) .",
    "exact solutions and perturbation theory .",
    ", 62(2):188  198 , 1965 .",
    "a.  dutta , g.  aeppli , b.  k. chakrabarti , u.  divakaran , t.  f. rosenbaum , and d.  sen . .",
    ", dec 2010 .",
    "t.  boothby , a.  d. king , and a.  roy . .",
    ", 15:495508 , jan 2016 .",
    "j.  eisert , m.  cramer , and m.  b. plenio .",
    "_ colloquium _ : area laws for the entanglement entropy .",
    ", 82:277306 , feb 2010 .",
    "immanuel bloch , jean dalibard , and sylvain nascimbene .",
    "quantum simulations with ultracold quantum gases . , 8(4):267276 , apr 2012 .    jacek dziarmaga .",
    "dynamics of a quantum phase transition and relaxation to a steady state . , 59(6):10631189 , 2010 .",
    "anatoli polkovnikov and vladimir gritsev .",
    "niversal dynamics near quantum critical points . in lincoln",
    "d. carr , editor , _ understanding quantum phase transitions _",
    ", chapter  3 , pages 5990 .",
    "crc press , taylor & francis group , boca raton , 2011 .",
    "c.  de  grandi , v.  gritsev , and a.  polkovnikov .",
    "quench dynamics near a quantum critical point .",
    ", 81:012303 , jan 2010 .",
    "j.  schachenmayer , a.  pikovski , and a.  m. rey . .",
    ", 5:011022 , feb 2015 .",
    "c.  w. von keyserlingk and s.  l. sondhi .",
    "phase structure of one - dimensional interacting floquet systems .",
    "i. abelian symmetry - protected topological phases . , 93:245145 , jun 2016 .",
    "j.  c. halimeh and v.  zauner - stauber . . ,",
    "oct 2016 .",
    "daniel barredo , henning labuhn , sylvain ravets , thierry lahaye , antoine browaeys , and charles  s. adams . .",
    ", 114:113002 , mar 2015 .",
    "m  l wall , k  maeda , and lincoln  d carr . realizing unconventional quantum magnetism with symmetric top molecules .",
    ", 17(2):025001 , 2015 .",
    "d.  a. alcala , j.  a. glick , and l.  d. carr . .",
    ", may 2016 .",
    "salvatore  r. manmana , andreas  m. luchli , fabian h.  l. essler , and frdric mila .",
    "phase diagram and continuous pair - unbinding transition of the bilinear - biquadratic @xmath139 heisenberg chain in a magnetic field .",
    ", 83:184433 , may 2011 .",
    "g.  vidal . .",
    ", 91:14790214 , 2003 .",
    "shi , l .- m .",
    "duan , and g.  vidal .",
    "classical simulation of quantum many - body systems with a tree tensor network .",
    ", 74:022320 , aug 2006 .",
    "g.  vidal . .",
    ", 101:110501 , sep 2008 .",
    "f.  verstraete and j.  i. cirac . . ,",
    "july 2004 .",
    "michael  a. nielsen and isaac  l. chuang . .",
    "cambridge univ . press , 9 .",
    "print . edition , 2007 .",
    "plenio and s.  virmani .",
    "an introduction to entanglement measures .",
    ", 7:001 , jan 2007 .",
    "john cardy . .",
    "cambridge university press , 2003 .",
    "eric jones , travis oliphant , pearu peterson , et  al .",
    "scipy.optimize.curve_fit from scipy : open source scientific tools for python , 2001. .",
    "t  w  b kibble .",
    "topology of cosmic domains and strings .",
    ", 9(8):1387 , 1976 .    w.  h. zurek .",
    "cosmological experiments in superfluid helium ?",
    ", 317(6037):505508 , oct 1985 .",
    "jacek dziarmaga . . ,",
    "95:245701 , dec 2005 .",
    "in this section we describe the numerical algorithm used , which can be skipped by readers not interested in the computational aspects of this work .",
    "the motivation for using tensor network methods for the simulation of our systems is their versatile applications for finite and infinite size statics and finite systems dynamics . since the invention of the finite size version of mps @xcite ,",
    "various tensor network methods have been proposed .",
    "these types of tensor networks include for pure states tree tensor networks ( ttns ) @xcite , multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz ( mera ) @xcite , and projected entangled pair states ( peps ) @xcite .",
    "all approaches are based on a parametrization of states in the hilbert space in order to capture many - body physics which is well beyond the reach of exact diagonalization . for an overview",
    "we refer to @xcite .",
    "we divide our description of the specific methods used into three parts .",
    "first , we discuss the convergence of the imps algorithm used to determine the phase boundary in terms of the critical external field @xmath15 as a function of the interaction decay @xmath10 .",
    "this algorithm is based on variational methods to find the ground state of a translationally invariant unit cell .",
    "second , we treat the path to finite size simulations via mps returning the ground state of a system of size @xmath140 .",
    "iterating over different system sizes @xmath140 , we discuss how to obtain the critical value of the external field @xmath15 in the limit @xmath82 via finite size scaling .",
    "third , we complete the section with a discussion of the dynamic results obtained with the time - dependent variational principle ( tdvp ) @xcite which is able to intrinsically capture long - range interactions and is therefore preferable over a suzuki - trotter decomposition as used in many implementations of mps / tebd libraries .",
    "we explain the numerical methods behind the simulation data shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : phaseboundaries ] .",
    "the imps algorithm is designed to find the ground state of an infinite system without boundary effects , returning the translationally invariant unit cell of size @xmath140 .",
    "new sites are inserted in the middle of the existing system and variationally optimized in order to converge to the ground state .",
    "the previous iteration is included as the _ environment _ , where environment is understood in the sense that it exchanges quantum numbers with the system , and not in an system - bath open quantum system context . in the first step of the algorithm ,",
    "the unit cell is optimized without any environment ; in the second step the solution of the first step is considered as the environment . from that point on",
    "the environment grows subsequently with each step .",
    "the algorithm terminates if the newly introduced sites fulfill the orthogonality fidelity condition : @xmath141 where @xmath142 indicates the iteration step and @xmath143 is the right part of the system excluding the site introduces in the most recent step .",
    "therefore , @xmath144 and @xmath145 is the overlap between the same part of the system and the latter one has one more update included . when the overlap is sufficiently big , the update did not change the result any more .",
    "we refer to @xcite for a detailed description .",
    "the phase boundary for the infinite mps simulation is obtained for each value of @xmath10 evaluating the maximum of the bond entropy iterating over the external field @xmath20 .",
    "the bond entropy is defined by the von neumann entropy introduced in eq .",
    "( [ eq : vonneumann ] ) .",
    "we obtain the singular values squared @xmath146 when splitting the unit cell of the infinite mps into the bipartition .",
    "the bond entropy is one of a variety of possible entanglement measures @xcite , and it is based on the schmidt decomposition separating a quantum system into bipartitions .",
    "the entanglement can be measured via the number of singular values , the schmidt number , or the entropy of the singular values according to eq .",
    "( [ eq : vonneumann ] ) .",
    "for example , a bell state has schmidt number @xmath147 and von neumann entropy @xmath148 , while an unentangled product state has schmidt number @xmath149 with von neumann entropy @xmath150 .",
    "the maximum of the bond entropy is found using a grid of @xmath151 points ranging from @xmath152 } = 0.9 $ ] ( @xmath152 } = 0.0 $ ] ) to @xmath153 } = 3.9 $ ] ( @xmath153 } = 2.0 $ ] ) in the ferromagnetic ( antiferromagnetic ) long - range ising model .",
    "we run this evaluation for @xmath154 different @xmath10 s ranging from @xmath137 to @xmath109 .",
    "the critical value @xmath155}$ ] is the grid point with the maximal bond entropy .",
    "based on this result , we refine the search on the next grid defined as @xmath156 where @xmath157}$ ] is the step size on the grid .",
    "the results presented in sec .  [ sec : phaseboundary ] and in the following convergence studies are for @xmath158}$ ] , that is the external field at the quantum critical point between the paramagnetic and ferromagnetic , or antiferromagnetic phase .",
    "the superscript denotes the iteration refining the grid for the search and has no physical meaning past an indication for the precision of @xmath15 .",
    "we now discuss convergence of the imps results .",
    "we take the default convergence parameters of the osmps library @xcite with the modification of an iterative bond dimension of @xmath159 . in fig .",
    "[ fig : staticimpsconv ] ( a ) we show the difference in bond entropy @xmath160 , @xmath161 , and @xmath162 .",
    "these results call for a technical discussion of this behavior due to the large difference for many points with @xmath163 , here in the antiferromagnetic case .",
    "this behavior is related to symmetry breaking .",
    "the degenerate ground state in the limit @xmath83 is the ghz state @xmath164 but without enforcing @xmath33 any superposition of @xmath165 and @xmath166 minimizes the energy of the system .",
    "therefore , the bond entropy can be between the bond entropy @xmath167 of a product state and @xmath168 of the ghz ground state .",
    "we discuss the origins of this problem related to the numerical algorithm of imps .",
    "tracking the singular values , we find either a distribution of pairs in the states with high entropy corresponding to the two different signs as pointed out in the limit @xmath83 for the ghz state in eq .",
    "( [ eq : z2ghz ] ) . or the low entropy states have decaying non - degenerate singular values .",
    "the imps algorithm selects one of the degenerate states at non - predictable points due to the randomized initial state at the very beginning of the algorithm , as well as the entanglement truncation step , which can randomly pick a particular parity sector for the environment .",
    "this is related to the dominant eigenvector of the transfer matrix ( see @xcite ) .",
    "note that , once one of the broken symmetry states @xmath169 or @xmath170 becomes more dominant , this dominance is `` stored '' for all subsequent iterations in the environment in the imps algorithm .",
    "hence , symmetry breaking by random random numerical noise can not be removed by running more iterations . the higher bond dimension and",
    "the number of iterations in the algorithm lead to smaller differences in the pairs of degenerate singular values until one of the dominant eigenvectors of the transfer matrix is kept and the other truncated . for @xmath171 , the difference in the leading singular values is @xmath172 decreasing to @xmath173 for @xmath174 .",
    "therefore , the singular values double in magnitude since an equal counterpart was neglected . in summary we can state the following : ( 1 ) for @xmath175 symmetry breaking",
    "is not resolved .",
    "the result converges , as expected , better for faster decaying long - range interaction up to @xmath176 between the results for @xmath177 and @xmath178 .",
    "( 2 ) for @xmath179 we truncate one of the symmetry broken states for @xmath180 meaning that the difference in entropy is large for any comparison to @xmath180 .",
    "the results with bond dimension @xmath181 have an error between @xmath182 and @xmath183 with regard to @xmath171 .",
    "the singular values for @xmath178 are close enough to be resolved as degeneracy leading to the conclusion that the state is also well converged .",
    "( 3 ) the region in between the algorithm alternates between resolving the symmetry broken ground state or not , leading to convergence up to @xmath184 .",
    "the same trend can be stated in the ferromagnetic case shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : staticimpsconv ] ( b ) .",
    "a corresponding example for the degeneracy evolving in the singular values can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : impsz2 ] .",
    "we emphasize that this analysis is relevant if searching for the maximal entropy on a very coarse grid or when trying to show convergence across bond dimensions . for a single bond dimension we may use the final value of the orthogonality fidelity described in eq .",
    "( [ eq : fortho ] ) .",
    "the convergence in terms of the orthogonality fidelity is discussed in [ sec : convimps ] .",
    "the finite size simulations have a two - fold purpose . on the one hand ,",
    "finite size scaling provides an alternate route to obtain the thermodynamic limit of the system and is therefore a check against the imps results .",
    "while imps simulations are only limited by the bond dimension used , finite size simulations enforce the @xmath33 symmetry and avoid for this reason the symmetry - breaking effects discussed in the previous section . on the other hand",
    ", we see the finite size effects affect the system , which is important as the dynamic simulations are for finite systems .",
    "for the finite size scaling we use the same grid method as for imps before with the initial grid boundaries @xmath185 ( @xmath186 ) and @xmath187 ( @xmath188 ) with nine ( seven ) grid points for each @xmath10 and @xmath140 in the ferromagnetic ( antiferromagnetic ) case .",
    "we refine the grid four times after the initial run ending with the bond dimensions @xmath189 for the iteration over the osmps convergence parameters .",
    "the final distance between points is for both cases @xmath190 } \\approx 0.004 $ ] . for the refinement we find @xmath191 with the bond entropy at the middle of the system and construct the next , refined , grid @xmath192 in the interval @xmath193}$ ] .",
    "the maximum number of sweeps are @xmath194 for the corresponding iterations in bond dimension @xmath189 .",
    "the other convergence parameters , which stay constant for each set of convergence parameters iterated over , are a variance tolerance of @xmath195 and a local tolerance of @xmath195 . for power law exponents of @xmath136",
    ", we actually reach a variance superior to @xmath196 where simulations converge better away from the critical value for the ferromagnetic hamiltonian . in the antiferromagnetic case ,",
    "longer - range interactions show worse convergence independent of the critical value of the external field . we discuss the details in [ sec :",
    "convmps ] .",
    "the critical values are evaluated for system sizes @xmath197 , @xmath198 , @xmath199 , @xmath200 , and @xmath201 . by using finite size scaling",
    ", we obtain the critical value @xmath15 of an infinite system . from cardy",
    "@xcite we know that for a finite system the distance of the critical point @xmath202 to the critical point in the thermodynamic limit @xmath15 can be described by @xmath203 knowing that the values of @xmath15 are increasing in the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic case according to fig .  [ fig : staticcritfss ] , we can use @xmath204 and fit the unknown parameters @xmath15 and @xmath37 via @xcite . due to the logarithmic choice of the system size",
    ", small system sizes are overrepresented in the fit .",
    "we account for this by assigning an uncertainty proportional to @xmath205 at each data point .",
    "the results for different system sizes and the data from the finite size scaling can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : staticcritfss ] . in the antiferromagnetic case ( a ) , the points show the expected behavior with smaller spacing between bigger system sizes ; thus the simulations are converging to the thermodynamic limit .",
    "when the interactions are not decaying for @xmath206 , the finite size scaling breaks down due to poorly - converging simulations . the black curve represents the @xmath82 limit achieved through the finite size scaling fit .",
    "figure  [ fig : staticcritfss ] ( b ) shows the same behavior for the ferromagnetic case .",
    "we point out that the weights for each data point are necessary in this case to avoid an intersection of the curve for @xmath82 with the finite size solution @xmath131 for longer - range interactions .      in this section",
    "we analyze the scaling of the numerical simulation with regards to the kibble - zurek hypothesis .",
    "the kibble - zurek mechanism describes the scaling of the defect density when driving a quantum system through a quantum phase transition and was originally formulated in terms of cosmology @xcite , and later brought to quantum systems such as helium @xcite or the nearest neighbor quantum ising model @xcite .",
    "there , the external field is changed in order to cross the quantum critical point at @xmath207 in the nearest - neighbor quantum ising model . in our analysis",
    "the quantum critical point @xmath15 depends on the actual value of the power law exponent @xmath10 as presented in sec .",
    "[ sec : ham ] .    in order to analyze the kibble - zurek hypothesis in the present of long - range interactions ,",
    "we first define the defect density for the ferromagnetic model .",
    "the defect density was defined in @xcite using nearest neighbor correlations , and we divide by @xmath208 instead of @xmath140 to account for the open boundary condition : @xmath209 we now shortly outline why this works in the ferromagnetic case for the nearest neighbor model .",
    "we recall that at the end of the quench the external field @xmath102 and therefore the ground states @xmath210 are defined through @xmath211 this is equivalent to the ghz state and we recall that this is the ground state before @xmath212 symmetry breaking .",
    "the first excited state has @xmath213 degeneracies and is described by a single kink in the system , e.g. @xmath214 .",
    "the number of kinks is equal to the number of excitations .",
    "if we consider first a state with a product state of only spins up or down , one is easily convinced that eq .",
    "( [ eq : defectdensity ] ) describes the defect density . for every domain wall the nearest - neighbor correlation",
    "inside the sum contributes , while for spin inside the domain wall the term is cancelled .",
    "moreover , it is a reasonable measurement even when the spins are changing slowly .",
    "let us verify this point with an example of three spins changing from up to down , @xmath215 .",
    "the subscript reflects the basis if it differs from @xmath35 .",
    "the measurement of the correlation yields zero in both cases : @xmath216 the measurement in eq .",
    "( [ eq : defectdensity ] ) yields one defect , as expected , with the spins flipping once over the chain .",
    "we emphasize that this can not be used in any region with @xmath217 , except as an approximation for @xmath218 .",
    "let us turn to the defects of the ferromagnetic long - range quantum ising model .",
    "the defects are local kinks , but the states with one kink are not all degenerate .",
    "in fact , the energy gap to the ground state is smaller for kinks closer to the boundaries .",
    "this is a manifestation of the boundary effects . counting all kinks equally",
    ", we make an error growing in the limit @xmath206 .",
    "the defect density of the antiferromagnetic case in the nearest neighbor model is defined as @xmath219 we again point out that the single defects have a different excitation energy depending on their position in the bulk .    in order to retrieve the critical exponent scaling in the form of eq .",
    "( [ eq : kzmscaling ] ) , we simulate the quenches for @xmath114 for the set of @xmath97 s containing @xmath220 . for each @xmath10",
    "we fit the coefficient @xmath221 and the critical exponent @xmath124 via @xcite . in order to estimate",
    "if any non - converged simulations are included in the data , the standard deviation @xmath222 is calculated through the covariance matrix given by the fitting function . in fig .",
    "[ fig : kzmfit ] we show one example in the ferromagnetic model for @xmath223 and @xmath224 .",
    "the error of the fit can be seen as an indicator for the validity of the dynamic results .",
    "running simulations with different @xmath87 helps us to identify failing simulations versus singularities . for weaker long - range interactions with big @xmath10 the fits",
    "reproduce the results while for longer - range interaction the procedure fails ( @xmath225 ) .",
    "the initial state is based on the same convergence parameters as the statics discussed in [ sec : statics ] , except for the bond dimension which is lowered to @xmath226 or @xmath227 . for the dynamics we keep the corresponding maximal bond dimension and use the default tdvp convergence parameters in osmps @xcite for all other parameters .",
    "in the appendix we briefly address the convergence of the finite size statics .",
    "we already discussed the convergence of imps in [ sec : methods ] and therefore it is known that the convergence can be studied in different fashions . in osmps ,",
    "the variance of @xmath228 is considered for statics of finite size systems .",
    "the user chooses a value , we take @xmath195 , and osmps iterates through the different bond dimension @xmath87 .",
    "we consider @xmath229 and @xmath230 of the last grid .",
    "this fifth grid has a discretization of @xmath231 ( ferro ) and @xmath232 ( antiferro ) around the critical point of the fourth grid .",
    "the output contains the flag if the simulation converged according to the value for each @xmath87 ; in addition the actual value of the variance is saved as well .",
    "we start to look if the simulation converged with a variance of @xmath233 .",
    "this information is contained in the left part of fig .",
    "[ fig : statmpsconvf ] for the ferromagnetic model .",
    "the coloring is as follows : green for convergence at the first convegence parameter with @xmath229 , red for convergence the second convergence parameter at @xmath230 , and blue if not converged at either of the previous bond dimensions . in order to estimate the variance of the blue region , we plot the actual value for the critical value @xmath15 as a function of @xmath10 and system size in the right part of fig .",
    "[ fig : statmpsconvf ] . for the analysis used in the main part of the paper",
    "we achieve a variance less than @xmath196 .",
    "we follow the similar scheme to study the convergence in the antiferromagnetic long - range quantum ising hamiltonian , presented in fig .  [",
    "fig : statmpsconvaf ] .",
    "the convergence becomes in general more difficult in the longer - range interacting region with @xmath206 , still reaching a variance of @xmath234 or better for the shorter - range region with @xmath136 .",
    "we discussed at length that it is difficult to study convergence as a function of the bond dimension in terms of the bond entropy in [ sec : statics ] .",
    "but we give in the following a brief overview of the convergence of the imps in terms of the orthogonality fidelity defined in eq .",
    "( [ eq : fortho ] ) . in order to show convergence",
    "it is convenient to switch from the orthogonality fidelity to the actual error , the infidelity @xmath235 figure  [ fig : statimpsorthoconv ] shows the convergence for the antiferromagnetic and the ferromagnetic model for the highest bond dimension @xmath180 of our convergence parameters and the second grid . in terms of the orthogonality fidelity",
    "the simulations are well converged at an error @xmath236 of @xmath237 or better for @xmath238 .",
    "convergence close to the critical point is in general worse . for @xmath239 interaction become too long - range to converge at the same level for these convergence settings .",
    "we remind the reader that the search interval for the ferromagnetic case shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : statimpsorthoconv ] ( b ) does not contain the critical value for very small @xmath10 with an upper bound of @xmath240 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate an extension of the quantum ising model in one spatial dimension including long - range @xmath0 interactions in its statics and dynamics with possible applications from heteronuclear polar molecules in optical lattices to trapped ions described by two - state spin systems . </S>",
    "<S> we introduce the statics of the system via both numerical techniques with finite size and infinite size matrix product states and a theoretical approaches using a truncated jordan - wigner transformation for the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic case and show that finite size effects have a crucial role shifting the quantum critical point of the external field by fifteen percent between thirty - two and around five - hundred spins . </S>",
    "<S> we numerically study the kibble - zurek hypothesis in the long - range quantum ising model with matrix product states . </S>",
    "<S> a linear quench of the external field through the quantum critical point yields a power - lay scaling of the defect density as a function of the total quench time . </S>",
    "<S> for example , the increase of the defect density is slower for longer - range models and the critical exponent changes by twenty - five per cent . </S>",
    "<S> our study emphasizes the importance of such long - range interactions in statics and dynamics that could point to similar phenomena in different a different setup of dynamical systems or for other models . </S>"
  ]
}