{
  "article_text": [
    "communication ( plc ) is an interesting and potentially cost effective solution to create a communication network exploiting the existing power delivery infrastructure .",
    "the application scenarios include home networking , home automation , broadband internet access , automatic meter reading , smart grid services through the power distribution grid @xcite .",
    "plc systems are partitioned in two classes : narrow band plc ( nb - plc ) and broad band plc ( bb - plc ) .",
    "nb - plc systems operate in the low frequencies range ( below @xmath0 khz ) and offer low data - rate up to 500 kbps .",
    "nb - plc is mostly intended for command and control and smart grid applications where reliability and robustness are preferred over data - rate . on the contrary ,",
    "bb - plc systems operate in the spectrum @xmath1@xmath2 mhz , and more recently , up to 86 mhz .",
    "bb - plc is mostly used for in - home networking where high data - rate communications , in excess of 200 mbps , are required , e.g. , for multimedia applications .",
    "the exact spectrum used by plc depends on the continent or country where it is deployed .",
    "these band plans are defined by the local committees , e.g. , cenelec ( comit europen de normalisation lectrotechnique ) in the eu , fcc ( federal communications commission ) in the us and arib ( association of radio industries and businesses ) in japan .",
    "for instance , cenelec defines for nb - plc four bands in the @xmath3@xmath4 khz spectrum @xcite , while fcc allows nb - plc in the @xmath5@xmath6 khz spectrum @xcite and arib in the @xmath7@xmath8 khz spectrum @xcite .",
    "the local committees also set the electromagnetic compatibility ( emc ) regulations .",
    "a general electrical device emits unintentionally ( or intentionally in the plc case ) signals in the electrical network that may cause interference to other devices . to prevent malfunctioning ,",
    "emc regulations define a set of emission and immunity limits that every electrical device must fulfill . for plc",
    ", emission limits have a fundamental role since they introduce a constraint to the level of transmitted signal used for communications ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chapter  2 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chapter  5 ) .    usually , in communications , the involved signals and the system performance , e.g. ,",
    "the signal - to - noise ratio , the bit - error - rate and the capacity , are analyzed as a function of the transmitted signal power spectral density ( psd ) .",
    "however , emc regulations are rather elaborated and set the conducted and radiated emission limits following a precise measurement procedure .",
    "this procedure involves , for the conducted emissions , a spectrum analyzer with a certain intermediate frequency ( if ) filter and a certain detector structure ( emi receiver ) , i.e. , a peak , quasi - peak or average signal level detector .",
    "the conducted emission limits are expressed in db@xmath9v .",
    "the results of such a procedure are not of immediate translation into the spectral constraints that the digital modulated signal has to fulfill .    given , the spectral constraints and the multi - path characteristics of plc channels , up - to - date nb - plc and bb - plc standards have adopted multicarrier modulation ( mcm ) ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chapter  5 ) .",
    "this is because in mcm , the informative signal is split into low data - rate signals .",
    "these signals are transmitted over narrow band sub - channels that can handle the channel frequency selectivity and enable simpler one - tap equalization .",
    "furthermore , spectrum shaping can be implemented by switching off some sub - channels , i.e. , through the creation of spectral notches .",
    "spectrum notching is also required to allow coexistence with radio systems especially in the bb spectrum .",
    "orthogonal frequency division multiplexing ( ofdm ) @xcite is the most common form of mcm .",
    "however , aiming to have a better spectrum confinement , plc systems have opted for a modified version of it named pulse shaped ofdm ( ps - ofdm ) @xcite , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* chapter  5 ) .",
    "this is the case of the ieee p1901.2 nb - plc standard and of the ieee p1901 bb - plc standard .    in order to have a better spectrum management flexibility ,",
    "other mcm techniques have been investigated as wavelet ofdm @xcite , oqam / ofdm @xcite , filtered multitone ( fmt ) @xcite .",
    "more recently , a new filter bank modulation ( fbm ) technique , named cyclic block filtered multitone modulation ( cb - fmt ) , that deploys cyclic convolutions instead of linear convolutions , has been introduced in @xcite and analyzed for possible application to both nb - plc in @xcite and to bb - plc in @xcite . in cb - fmt , differently from ofdm , the sub - channel frequency confinement is preferred .",
    "this allows to reduce the out - of - band interference and to better realize notching and satisfy spectral masks .",
    "the contribution of this paper is twofold .",
    "firstly , a complete overview of relevant emc norms for both nb - plc and bb - plc is reported .",
    "the procedure used to make the measurements and determine the limits is explained , as well as , it is discussed how to convert such limits into psd constraints to the modulated signal .",
    "this has practical and theoretical relevance , since the topic is often debate in the plc r&d community .",
    "secondly , the implications of such limits into the design of ps - ofdm are assessed .",
    "in particular , the parameters used in ieee p1901.2 and p1901 will be assumed to verify whether the norms are fulfilled .",
    "then , in order to see whether improved spectrum usage can be done , we consider cb - fmt and compare it to ps - ofdm .",
    "in particular , we consider a new cb - fmt scheme that deploys not only frequency domain pulse shaping but also time domain pulse shaping .",
    "we refer to this scheme as pulse shaped cb - fmt ( ps - cb - fmt ) .",
    "the analysis shows that ps - cb - fmt offers significant better fulfillment of norms both in the nb and in the bb spectrum .",
    "this is a result of the better ability to create notches and shape the spectrum . in turn , this implies higher capacity offered by the transmission scheme .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in sec .",
    "[ sec : emc ] , emc regulations are analyzed in detail . the measurement procedures and limits are reported . in sec .",
    "[ sec : conversion ] , the problem of the conversion from emc limits to psd limits for the modulated signal is addressed . in sec .",
    "[ sec : plc_standards ] , the ieee p1901.2 and ieee p1901 standards are considered . then , fbm is briefly explained and the novel ps - cb - fmt scheme is introduced . in sec .  [",
    "sec : results ] , the maximum psd limits are evaluated for both ps - ofdm and ps - cb - fmt . furthermore , the maximum achievable rate offered by ps - ofdm and ps - cb - fmt is evaluated in typical outdoor low voltage and in - home scenarios . finally , in sec .",
    "[ sec : conclusions ] , the conclusions follow .",
    "in the context of emc regulations and plc , the `` comit international spcial des perturbations radiolectriques '' ( cispr ) plays a fundamental role .",
    "cispr belongs to a non - governmental organization and it has not regulatory authority .",
    "the cispr standards must be adopted by the local government to have legal effect . in the eu , the `` comit europen de normalisation en lectronique et en lectrotechnique '' ( cenelec ) starting from cispr standards produces the european norms ( en ) .",
    "these norms , so called harmonized standards , are then adopted by the eu members local committees , e.g. , cei in italy , dke in germany , ove in austria . in the us ,",
    "the cispr standards have been adopted by the federal communications commission ( fcc ) @xcite .",
    "two specific relevant emc standards that have an impact on plc are cispr 22 @xcite and fcc part 15 @xcite .",
    "these standards specify the emi limits .",
    "fcc part 15 was published in 1979 and it is valid for commercial products marketed in the us .",
    "cispr 22 was published later in 1985 and it is intended for commercial products marketed outside the us . for the eu , cispr 22 was adopted by cenelec with the norm en55022 @xcite .",
    "the emis are partitioned in two classes : the conduced and the radiated emissions .",
    "conducted emissions are related to the interference that is conducted through the power line .",
    "radiated emissions are related to the electric and magnetic fields generated by the device and that propagate outside the power conductors . in the eu , en55022 specifies that conducted emissions have to be measured in the frequency range between @xmath10 khz and @xmath2 mhz , while radiated emissions have to be measured only above @xmath2 mhz .",
    "more recently , the norm en50065 ( specifically referred to nb - plc ) has included specifications below @xmath10 khz , as discussed in the following .",
    "fcc in the us , instead , specifies that radiated emissions have to be measured also below @xmath2 mhz .",
    "the goal of the conducted emissions test is to measure the interference injected into the power line .",
    "the measurement setup and methodology allows replicability and it is described in the cispr 16 - 1 standard @xcite . since the emission level is related to the network impedance and it is affected by noise , a line impedance stabilization network ( lisn ) is inserted between the device under test and the network .",
    "the lisn sets a constant impedance ( @xmath11 and it blocks the noise coming from the network . the measurement is then made with a spectrum analyzer ( sa ) . in the sa ,",
    "the rf signal is translated to the intermediate frequency ( if ) and it is filtered with a bandpass filter , namely the if filter .",
    "the bandwidth of the if filter determines the resolution of the closely spaced frequency components .",
    "the envelope of the output signal contains the information about the conducted emission level .",
    "therefore , after the if filter , an envelope detector is inserted whose structure depends on whether the peak ( pk ) , quasi - peak ( qp ) or average ( av ) signal level has to be measured .",
    "the pk and qp detectors schematic is reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : detectors ] . to understand the behavior of the pk and qp detectors , the example of fig .",
    "[ fig : pk_qp_signal ] is considered . at the detector input ,",
    "a signal formed by a train of triangular pulses is considered . in both detectors ,",
    "the capacitor @xmath12 is charged through the resistance @xmath13 until the pulse turns off . in the pk detector",
    ", the capacitor does not discharge itself so that the following pulses charge the capacitor until the peak is reached . in the qp detector , the capacitor discharges itself through @xmath14 when the pulse is turned off .",
    "if the pulses duty cycle is sufficiently small , the capacitor will completely discharge itself .",
    "when the period decreases , the output signal will continue to increase to some limit determined by the pk value . in other words , if the signal at the qp detector input is infrequent , the output level will be significantly smaller than that measured by the pk detector . in conclusion",
    ", if the measured pk value does not exceed the regulatory limit , then the qp value will not exceed the limit too .",
    "instead , if the pk value exceeds the regulatory limit , then the qp value must be evaluated .",
    "the detectors characteristics are described in the cispr 16 - 1 standard @xcite .",
    "the cispr 22 standard distinguishes among the mains terminals port and the telecommunication port .",
    "the mains terminal port refers to the power supply port .",
    "the telecommunication port refers to the data transmission port .",
    "although for most of the communication devices the two ports are distinct , in plc such ports physically coincide . both differential mode ( dm ) and common mode ( cm ) limits are defined .",
    "assuming three conductors , i.e. , phase ( p ) , neutral ( n ) and protective earth ( pe ) conductors , the dm is associated to the generated current that flows through the p conductor and returns through the n conductor .",
    "the cm is associated to the current that flows simultaneously through the p and the n conductors and returns through the pe conductor .",
    "the lisn allows to convert such currents into voltages that are finally measured .    both the mains port and the telecommunication port limits are defined in terms of cm which is responsible for radiated emissions . the telecommunication signal is injected in dm .",
    "however , the network ( power grid in the case of plc ) due to intrinsic asymmetries may introduce a conversion from dm to cm .",
    "this is referred to as longitudinal conversion loss ( lcl ) .",
    "the cm limit is established using an appropriate lcl .",
    "finally , cispr 22 splits the devices in two classes , a and b. class a devices are used in commercial or industrial environment .",
    "class b devices are used in residential , commercial or industrial environment .",
    "class b limits are more stringent than class a limits .",
    "the limits for the main and the telecommunication ports for class a and b devices are reported , in terms of cm , in tab .",
    "[ tab : conducted_limits ] .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the psd limits are expressed in dbm / hz .",
    "the table shows that ps - cb - fmt offers a psd limit gain that ranges from @xmath15 to @xmath16 db w.r.t .",
    "ps - ofdm in the hr configuration which can be increased even further with the lr configuration .",
    "this is due to the better spectrum confinement of the modulation scheme .",
    "that is , the spectrum falls down quickly outside the transmission band allowing to better meet the oob limits . in turn , this enables to achieve higher spectral efficiency .      for bb - plc , en50561 - 1 @xcite reports ib limits in terms of pk and av values .",
    "furthermore , spectrum notches are specified to allow coexistence with radio services .",
    "they are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : mask ] .",
    "although , en50561 - 1 does not say how deep these notches have to be , in p1901 such notches are set @xmath2 db below the limit in the transmission band , i.e. , at @xmath17 db@xmath9v ( pk ) .",
    "it has also the be said , that notches are related to the regional emc regulations , therefore p1901 allows flexibility on what sub - channels have to be switched on / off .",
    "both ps - ofdm and ps - cb - fmt can transmit at maximum power over the active sub - channels and they switch off a number of sub - channels to meet the notching mask .",
    "every notch in the mask is extended by 6 extra sub - carriers .",
    "[ fig : bb_spectrum ] shows that ps - cb - fmt has a much better ability to create notches .",
    "in fact , both systems have the same active sub - channels . however , the notches in ps - cb - fmt are deeper and wider than those of ps - ofdm .",
    "this implies that the target notches can be fulfilled with a higher number of active sub - channels by ps - cb - fmt w.r.t .",
    "ps - ofdm .              to make a performance comparison between ps - ofdm and ps - cb - fmt ,",
    "the maximum achievable rate is evaluated .",
    "the maximum achievable rate is computed in terms of shannon capacity .      for nb - plc ,",
    "the o - lv application scenario is considered .",
    "o - lv involves the communication between the transformer sub - station and the houses . to model the channels ,",
    "the opera model is considered @xcite .",
    "the model provides three classes of channels , as a function of the distance between the sub - station and the houses . for short ( about 150 m ) and long ( about 350 m ) distances the model provides three channel responses , namely good , medium and bad quality . for medium distance ( about 250 m )",
    ", only good and medium quality channels are provided .",
    "the model is derived from a measurement campaign .    for the background noise",
    ", opera also provides a model in @xcite .",
    "however , this model is developed for bb - plc , i.e. , for @xmath18 mhz .",
    "for the lower frequencies the model is not defined .",
    "thus , the model described in @xcite is considered .",
    "the noise is assumed to be stationary colored gaussian .",
    "the psd exhibits an exponential profile with higher values at lower frequency .",
    "the model describes the noise over the o - mv lines .",
    "since the o - lv noise has a lower level than o - mv @xcite , an offset of @xmath19 db is applied to the psd . in detail , the following model is adopted : @xmath20 , \\label{eq : noisepsd_nb}\\ ] ] where @xmath21 , @xmath22 and @xmath23 .",
    "[ fig : capacity_cenelec ] and [ fig : capacity_fcc ] show the complementary cumulative distribution function ( ccdf ) of the channel capacity in the cenelec and fcc bands , respectively .",
    "ps - cb - fmt outperforms ps - ofdm both with the lr and hr configuration because the high frequency confinement allows to better match the norms and increase the power level ( psd limit ) yet fulfilling the norms .",
    "furthermore , ps - cb - fmt deploys matched filtering via frequency domain equalization at the receiver side which allows to better capture the signal energy @xcite . in cenelec",
    "a , while ps - ofdm offers a capacity below 30 kbps with probability 0.5 , cb - fmt in the hr configuration can reach up to 600 kbps .",
    "this shows that with cb - fmt there is great potentiality to increase performance .              for the ih scenario ,",
    "the top - down model presented in @xcite is adopted .",
    "it accounts for the multipath propagation exhibited by the bb - plc channel .",
    "the model parameters are set to match a large measurement campaign , described in @xcite . concerning the noise , the opera model",
    "is considered @xcite .",
    "the noise is modeled as additive , colored and gaussian with the psd according to with @xmath24 , @xmath25 and @xmath26 .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : ccdf_bb ] , the ccdf of the maximum achievable rate is reported . in general",
    ", ps - cb - fmt improves the performances w.r.t .",
    "ps - ofdm .",
    "in particular , with the lr configuration ( @xmath27 , equal to ps - ofdm ) , the capacity improvement at ccdf 0.6 is from @xmath28 mbps to @xmath29 mbps . with the hr configuration ,",
    "the performance improves by other @xmath30 mbps .",
    "in this work , a detailed overview of emc norms relevant to both nb - plc and bb - plc has been reported .",
    "plc is a particular communication technology that exploits the same port for both powering the modem and transmitting data . as such",
    ", it has required the development of new regulations which differ from continent to continent and that are still in progress .",
    "for instance , nb - plc in the band @xmath4@xmath0 khz , as well as bb - plc for outdoor applications , are unregulated in the eu .",
    "the measurement methodology has been analyzed to verify whether a plc signal fulfills the emc limits typically expressed in terms of pk , qp , or av value .",
    "the procedure has been discussed aiming to provide a practical guide to the verification of the fulfillment of spectral constraints by a certain digital modulation system .    in particular ,",
    "ps - ofdm has been considered since it is the multicarrier modulation scheme used in state - of - the - art plc systems . using the ieee p1901.2 specifications",
    ", it has been shown that ps - ofdm can fulfill the norms in the nb spectrum if the signal amplitude is significantly lowered w.r.t . what is prescribed by in - band emc limits .",
    "this affects negatively the system capacity .",
    "similarly , in the bb spectrum using ieee p1901 specifications , a number of sub - channels must be switched off to create notches of @xmath31 db below the maximum psd value .",
    "therefore , an alternative and novel multicarrier scheme named ps - cb - fmt has been described and analyzed . due to the higher spectrum confinement of ps - cb - fmt w.r.t .",
    "ps - ofdm , the spectral limits can be better achieved allowing for reduced out - of - band emissions and possibility to increase the in - band power up to the limit .",
    "furthermore , ps - cb - fmt allows to switch off a lower number of sub - channels to create deep spectral notches .",
    "this translates into significantly higher system capacity offered by ps - cb - fmt w.r.t .",
    "ps - ofdm in both the nb and in the bb spectrum .      c.  cano , a.  pittolo , d.  malone , l.  lampe , a.  m. tonello , and a.  g. dabak , `` state of the art in power line communications : from the applications to the medium , '' _ ieee journal on selected areas in communications _ , vol .",
    "34 , no .  7 , pp .",
    "19351952 , july 2016 .",
    "`` signalling on low - voltage electrical installations in the frequency range 3 khz to 148,5 khz - part 1 : general requirements , frequency bands and electromagnetic disturbances , '' en 50065 - 1:2011 , cenelec , 2011 .",
    "l.  berger , a.  schwager , p.  pagani , and d.  schneider , _ mimo power line communications : narrow and broadband standards , emc , and advanced processing _ , ser .",
    "devices , circuits , and systems.1em plus 0.5em minus 0.4emtaylor & francis , 2014",
    ".          s.  d. sandberg and m.  a. tzannes , `` overlapped discrete multitone modulation for high speed copper wire communications , '' _ ieee journal on selected areas in communications _",
    ", vol .  13 , no .  9 , pp .",
    "15711585 , dec 1995 .",
    "a.  skrzypczak , p.  siohan , and j.  p. javaudin , `` application of the ofdm / oqam modulation to power line communications , '' in _ ieee international symposium on power line communications and its applications ( isplc 2007 ) _ , march 2007 , pp . 7176 .",
    "g.  cherubini , e.  eleftheriou , and s.  olcer , `` filtered multitone modulation for very high - speed digital subscriber lines , '' _ ieee journal on selected areas in communications _ ,",
    "20 , no .  5 ,",
    "10161028 , jun 2002 .",
    "a.  m. tonello and f.  pecile , `` efficient architectures for multiuser fmt systems and application to power line communications , '' _ ieee transactions on communications _",
    "57 , no .  5 , pp .",
    "12751279 , may 2009 .",
    "a.  m. tonello and m.  girotto , `` cyclic block fmt modulation for broadband power line communications , '' in _ ieee int .",
    "symposium on power line communications and its applications ( isplc 2013 ) _ , march 2013 , pp .",
    ".              `` amendment to cispr 22 : clarification of its application to telecommunication system on the method of disturbance measurement at ports used for plc ( power line communication ) , '' cispr / i/89/cd , iec , 2003 .",
    "`` amendment 1 to cispr 22 ed.6.0 : addition of limits and methods of measurement for conformance testing of power line telecommunication ports intended for the connection to the mains , '' cispr / i/301/cd , iec , 2009 .",
    "n.  weling , `` expedient permanent psd reduction table as mitigation method to protect radio services , '' in _ ieee international symposium on power line communications and its applications ( isplc 2011 ) _ , april 2011 , pp .",
    "305310 .",
    "`` power line communication apparatus used in low - voltage installations ",
    "radio disturbance characteristics  limits and methods of measurement  part 1 apparatus for in - home use , '' en 50561 - 1:2012 , cenelec , 2012 .",
    "m.  babic _ et al .",
    "_ , `` d5 pathloss as a function of frequency , distance and network topology for various lv and mv european powerline networks . ''",
    "ist integrated project no .",
    "507667 , tech . rep .",
    ", april 2005 , opera deliverable d5 .",
    "z.  tao , y.  xiaoxian , z.  baohui , n.  xu , f.  xiaoqun , and l.  changxin , `` statistical analysis and modeling of noise on 10-kv medium - voltage power lines , '' _ ieee trans . on power delivery _ ,",
    "22 , no .  3 , pp .",
    "14331439 , july 2007 .",
    "a.  m. tonello , a.  pittolo , and m.  girotto , `` power line communications : understanding the channel for physical layer evolution based on filter bank modulation , '' _ ieice transactions on communications _ ,",
    "e97-b , no .  8 , pp . 14941503 , august 2014 .",
    "m.  tlich , a.  zeddam , f.  moulin , and f.  gauthier , `` indoor power - line communications channel characterization up to 100 mhz  part i : one - parameter deterministic model , '' _ ieee transactions on power delivery _ , vol .",
    "23 , no .  3 , pp .",
    "13921401 , july 2008 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper considers electromagnetic compatibility ( emc ) aspects in the context of power line communication ( plc ) systems . </S>",
    "<S> it offers a complete overview of both narrow band plc and broad band plc emc norms . how to interpret and translate such norms and measurement procedures into typical constraints used by designers of communication systems , is discussed . in particular , the constraints to the modulated signal spectrum are considered and the ability of pulse shaped ofdm ( ps - ofdm ) , used in most of the plc standards as ieee p1901 and p1901.2 , to fulfill them is analyzed . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , aiming to improve the spectrum management ability , a novel scheme named pulse shaped cyclic block filtered multitone modulation ( ps - cb - fmt ) is introduced and compared to ps - ofdm . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that , ps - cb - fmt offers better ability to fulfill the norms which translates in higher system capacity .    </S>",
    "<S> power line communication , emc , regulations , multicarrier modulation , ps - ofdm , cb - fmt . </S>"
  ]
}