{
  "article_text": [
    "quality assessment of photographs is not a new issue arising with digital cameras .",
    "birkhoff , back in 1933 proposed that the aesthetic appeal of objects relates to the ratio of order and complexity in images .",
    "the hardness in this task is to define order and complexity [ 4 ] . with the advent of digital cameras and smartphones ,",
    "people capture more photographs than they can consume . nowadays",
    ", social media provide an adequate filter of our social graph , displaying to us photographs and posts by our friends or friends of friends , based on popularity metrics .",
    "what if we could see photographs based on our taste , previous likes , or general aesthetic criteria ? in the field of information retrieval , the content based image retrieval ( cbir ) systems apply computer vision techniques to the image retrieval problem , by searching in large databases . in this context",
    ", we do not search for metadata or documents , but we decompose the image on its pixels , attempting to draw inferences between its content and its aesthetic value .",
    "this relatively recent research area is termed as `` computational aesthetics '' .",
    "researchers in this area leverage techniques from image processing and computer vision , combining methodologies from psychology and art theory .",
    "[ 32,22 ]    the field of computational aesthetics gradually attracts interest in the scientific community .",
    "scopus data ( figure 1 ) reveal the steady growth in literature regarding this area . in 2014 , 89 papers were published in international conferences and journals . if we dig more on scopus data , we find that the majority of publications comes from asia ( national university of singapore , universiti tenaga nasional and zhejiang university ) and north america ( simon fraser university , carnegie mellon university , and georgia institute of technology )",
    ".    coordinates    ( 1990 , 1 ) ( 1991 , 2 ) ( 1992 , 1 ) ( 1993 , 2 ) ( 1994 , 2 ) ( 1995 , 5 ) ( 1996 , 13 ) ( 1997 , 7 ) ( 1998 , 9 ) ( 1999 , 8) ( 2000 , 7 ) ( 2001 , 11 ) ( 2002 , 27 ) ( 2003 , 19 ) ( 2004 , 16 ) ( 2005 , 29 ) ( 2006 , 34 ) ( 2007 , 33 ) ( 2008 , 43 ) ( 2009 , 37 ) ( 2010 , 56 ) ( 2011 , 45 ) ( 2012 , 71 ) ( 2013 , 74 ) ( 2014 , 89 ) ( 2015 , 67 )    ;    researchers involved in aesthetic assessment of photographs try to correlate low or high - level attributes of an image with its quality evaluation .",
    "this process , understandably contains subjectivity in gathering ground truth data .",
    "the solution proposed is to combine these extracted features with crowdsourced ratings of photographs , ideally of big populations [ 30 ] .",
    "but , before we can design features to assess quality , we should decide on the perceptual criteria that we use when we judge photographs .",
    "literature groups three factors on judging the quality of photographs : simplicity , realism and basic photography techniques [ 15 ] .",
    "* simplicity*. one distinctive aspect of professional shots to everyday snapshots is that , pro photos are simple and easy to separate the foreground from the background . the tricks used by professionals in order to distinguish the background from the subject is by widening the lens aperture , increasing the natural color contrast of the subject and the lighting contrast .",
    "* realism*. our snapshots usually look ordinary and quite common , while the professional shots look surreal . to achieve this effect , professionals are aware of the lighting conditions of dusk or dawn , choosing to shoot at hours that the sunlights are indirect . also , they use hardware filters to make the sky bluer ( nd filters ) , adjusting the color palette and saturation levels .",
    "hardware in general , is more expensive and customized than regular smartphones , allowing to tweak the aperture , shutter speed , lens optical zoom and lots of other options . by leveraging the above techniques ,",
    "professionals tend to shoot more unusual objects and situations .",
    "* basic photography techniques*. it is very rare for a professional photo to be entirely blurry .",
    "blurriness is often the result of camera shake or low quality lens .",
    "background blurriness , though , could be an aspect of professional deliberate result , as described above .",
    "in addition , professionals shoot usually higher contrast photos than point - and - shoot snapshot users .",
    "given the above grouping , researchers try to model these factors into features that can be extracted from images .",
    "we will describe those features in section 2 .",
    "the rest of the paper is structured as follows : in section 3 we describe the aesthetic benchmark datasets used in computational evaluation , in section 4 we asses the machine learning frameworks of predicting aesthetic value and , finally , in section 5 we discuss the limitations and future work .",
    "in the last fifteen years there have been significant contributions to the field of image representation and feature extraction towards semantic understanding . [ 14 ] aesthetics and emotional value are based on semantics , so it is not surprising that they draw inspiration from the above fields . in the literature",
    "we notice a spectrum of low level ( edges , textures , color histograms etc . ) and high level ( rule of thirds , symmetry , saliency , face recognition etc . ) features combined .",
    "we group all the available features mentioned in literature as follows : * _ color , texture , composition , content_*. also , we attempt a qualitative labelling of each feature according to its implementation complexity with current image processing tools and frameworks .",
    "note that the implementation complexity might overlap with computation complexity particularly in data intensive extraction techniques , such as facial recognition .",
    "* hsl and hsv color spaces*. hue , saturation and lightness ( hsl ) and hue , saturation and value ( hsv ) are the two most common cylindrical - coordinate representations of points in an rgb color model .",
    "they are used in literature due to the better representation of color than rgb .",
    "features often extract the average value of each channel in the whole image , or segments of it",
    ".    * white balance .",
    "* professional cameras have to take into account the `` color temperature '' of the light source .",
    "on the other hand , cheap cameras tend to shoot blue - ish photographs due to low - quality lenses .",
    "we estimate the average color temperature distribution .    *",
    "contrast*. one of the most important aspects of a photograph is the difference in colour luminance that makes an object or thing distinguishable .",
    "we create a multi - scale contrast map from the brightness histogram of the photo and count average and median values .",
    "* pixel intensity*. too much exposure often creates lower quality pictures .",
    "those that are too dark are often also not appealing .",
    "thus light exposure can often be a good discriminant between high and low quality photographs .",
    "however , an over / under - exposed photograph under certain scenarios may yield very original and beautiful shots .",
    "[ 8 ] we use the average pixel intensity to estimate the use of light , where iv is the value channel of hsv from each row x , column y of the image .",
    "@xmath0    * pleasure , arousal , dominance*. emotional coordinates based on saturation and brightness are estimated by [ 32 ] from their psychology experiments .",
    "this relationship between the saturation and brightness is modelled as follows :    @xmath1    @xmath2    @xmath3    where v , s are the value and saturation metrics of the hsv color model .",
    "* color templates*. there are several metrics proposed by [ 18 ] in order to estimate the distance between the hue distribution and a certain color template . in particular , munsel color system provides efficient regions in a color wheel according to its position . in ( fig 2 )",
    "we see the hue distribution models , where the gray color indicates the efficient regions that result in harmony .        [ 35 ] proposed an improved metric by approximating the color distribution of hue histogram by identifying its location of peak value .",
    "the distance between the hue histogram distribution and the most matching munsel color template is expressed as :    @xmath4    @xmath5    where k=1 ... 7 is the type of color template ( see above fig 2 ) , dist(i , rk ) is the distance between hue value i and the gray region rk of template tk , h(i ) stands for the occurrence of hue value i in the histogram , dist(h(i ) , rk ) is zero when i is in the gray regions rk arc = length distance between i and the nearest border of gray regions and s(i ) is the average saturation of hue value i and acts as weight on colors with low saturation .",
    "then , we should find which template fits better our test image .",
    "ideally this is the color template with the minimum distance .",
    "however some templates contain more gray than others , so there must be some bias .",
    "we overcome this by measuring the fitness of color templates    @xmath6    where nk is the total number of pixels in gray regions , is the image size and pk the inverse proportion of gray region size in the template . combining the ratio rk and distance dk",
    ", we measure the similarity between hue histogram and color templates : @xmath7    * color moment*. a group of standard measures which characterise color distribution in an image in the same way that central moments describe a probability distribution uniquely .",
    "we measure mean , standard deviation , skewness and kurtosis , for each hsv channel .",
    "* colourfulness*. [ 8 ] proposed a robust method to find the relative color distribution , distinguishing colorful images from monochromatic and low contrast ones .",
    "they employed the earth mover s distance ( emd ) which is a measure of similarity between any two weighted distributions . dividing the colour space into n cubic blocks with four equal partitions along each dimension , they take each such cube as a sample point .",
    "distribution d1 is generated as the color distribution of a hypothetical image such that for each of n sample points , the frequency is 1/n .",
    "distribution d2 is computed from the test image , by finding the frequency of occurrence of color within each of the n cubes .",
    "but , emd requires the pairwise distance between the two under - comparison points , so we count the pairwise euclidean distances between the geometric centers c of each cube . finally the colourfulness measure is estimated as follows :    @xmath8    * colour names*. we consider that every pixel of an image can be assigned to one of the following groups : black , blue , brown , green , gray , orange , pink , purple , red , white , yellow .",
    "the algorithm proposed by [ 33 ] mimics the way humans judge a whole photo of an image by its color .",
    "this measure let us decide on the style of the photographer as well .",
    ".color features [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     * image and processing complexity*. these features are inspired by birkhoff s idea that aesthetic appeal of objects relates to the ratio of order and complexity .",
    "the optimal image is accomplished by an image that has a low image complexity and a low processing complexity , at the same time .",
    "[ 27,28,21 ] the idea states that compression error correlates with complexity .",
    "they employ shannon s entropy in order to measure the image complexity .",
    "the processing complexity is estimated via the kolmogorov complexity .",
    "* visual weight ratio*. [ 12 ] proposed a method to recover the surface layout from an outdoor image using geometric context .",
    "the scene is segmented into sky regions , ground regions , and vertical standing objects , using adaboost on a variety of low level image features .",
    "we take vertical standing objects as subject areas . that way we distinguish between clear , cloudy and sunset skies .",
    "the ratios between the areas of these foreground - background rectangles should be close to the golden ratio for a better appeal .",
    "* foreground position*. [ 3 ] modelled the relative foreground position as the normalized euclidean distance between the foreground s center of mass ( visual attention center ) , to each of four symmetric stress points ( rule of thirds intersections ) in the image frame . this",
    "metric is ideal for single - subject scenes such as animals or portraits but might me ineffective in landscapes or seaside view which do not have a clear foreground . for these situations",
    "we choose the above technique of visual weight ratio .",
    "* salient regions*. saliency of a subject is the quality by which it stands out compared to its neighbors .",
    "[ 37 ] extract the salient regions from an image by utilizing a visual saliency model .",
    "we assume that the salient regions contain the photo subject .",
    "we first find the salient locations in the original image , compute the saliency map , the segmented image , and end up with the salient mask based on the main salient locations .",
    "our target is to enhance those salient regions as foreground objects .",
    "[ 38 ] this saliency retargeting problem ( fig 3 ) is solved by sequential quadratic programming ( sqp ) .",
    "* graphlets*. there are usually many components within a photo . among these components , a few spatially neighboring ones and their interactions capture photo local aesthetics . since a graph is a powerful tool to describe the relationships between objects , [ 39 ] used graphs to model the spatial interactions between image components .",
    "their technique is to segment a photo into a set of atomic regions using unsupervised fuzzy clustering .",
    "based on this , they extract graphlets graphlet is a small - sized connected graph defined as : g = ( v , e ) where v is a set of vertices representing locally distributed atomic regions and e is a set of edges , each of which connects pairwise spatially adjacent atomic regions .",
    "then , the graphlets are projected onto a manifold and the authors subsequently proposed an embedding algorithm .",
    "* pyramid of histograms of orientation gradients*. [ 26 ] proposed a model based on phog following a pyramid approach to calculate the hog .",
    "hog values are calculated based on the maximum gradient magnitudes in the color channels .",
    "based on the new gradient image , we estimate the high self - similarity , moderate complexity and low anisotropy .",
    "* symmetry*. [ 30 ] measured the symmetry of an image based on the difference of the histogram of oriented gradients ( hog ) [ 7 ] between the first half of the image and its opposite right half .      *",
    "faces*. recognition of active faces inside an image is still an open research field ; the researchers of computational aesthetics borrow the advancements of this field in order to count the number of frontal faces , the relative size of the biggest face as well as the shadow area in faces . [ 20 ] the implementation used is usually the state of art algorithm proposed by [ 34 ] .",
    "* skin*. along with faces , skin color and recognition is important in order to identify a photograph containing humans .",
    "we estimate the number of skin pixels and the relative amount of skin with respect to the size of faces . the key concept is to detect the color space of pink that corresponds to human skin [ 19 ] .",
    "the above features are extracted usually from ground truth aesthetic images found in various dataset created for this task .",
    "researchers test their techniques with the above benchmark datasets : dpchallenge , photo.net , flickr , terragalleria , alipr and ava .",
    "[ 14 ]    * * dpchallenge * * allows users to participate and contest in theme - based photography on diverse themes such as life and death , portraits , animals , geology , street photography .",
    "peer rating on overall quality , on a 1- 10 scale , determines the contest winners .",
    "( 16,509 images )    * * photo.net * * is a platform for photography enthusiasts to share and have their pictures peer rated on a 1 - 7 scale of aesthetics .",
    "the photography community also provides discussion forums , reviews on photos and photography products , and galleries for members and casual surfers .",
    "( 20,278 images )    * * flickr * * is one of the most popular online photo - sharing sites in the world . according to flickr , the interestingness of a picture is dynamic and depends on a plethora of criteria including its photographer , who marks it as a favorite , comments , and tags given by the community .    * * terragalleria * * displays travel photography of quang - tuan luong ( a scientist and a photographer ) , and is one of the finest resources for u.s . national park photography on the web .",
    "all photographs here have been taken by one person ( unlike other benchmarks ) , but multiple users have rated them on overall quality on a 1 - 10 scale .    *",
    "* alipr * * is a web - based image search and tagging system that also allows users to rate photographs along 10 different emotional categories such as surprising , amusing and adorable .    *",
    "* ava * * is the biggest aesthetics dataset which contains a rich variety of metadata including a large number of aesthetic scores for each image , semantic labels for over 60 categories as well as labels related to photographic style .",
    "( 250,000 images )",
    "combining the above ground truth aesthetic datasets with the features extracted of their images , researchers employ machine learning techniques in order to predict the aesthetic value of an image . in this process",
    ", both classification and regression is performed for different desired results . with classification",
    "we can distinguish between an aesthetic photo or not .",
    "but this measure tends to be kind of absolute in such a subjective task .",
    "however , aesthetics is a more abstract quality and quantifying it requires a relatively larger numeric scale .",
    "thus , regression techniques provides us with a scale of aesthetic score for each photo , so we are able to compare why a photo is considered of better quality from another .",
    "svm , svr and classification and regression trees ( cart ) are the most usual methods used for classification and regression .",
    "in addition , forms of unsupervised learning like the k - means clustering are used for visual vocabulary generation and graph - based region segmentation ,    the state of the art achieved on the above datasets varies according with the implementation and the training dataset size , making it difficult to compare the accuracy results of the proposed techniques .",
    "the best reported accuracies in most cases is around 80% [ 8,35,39 ] .",
    "the field of computational aesthetics seems promising considering the growing interest from the research community .",
    "researchers try to model the aesthetic quality of photographs into low and high - level features , drawing inspiration from art theory , psychology and marketing .",
    "there are many quite imaginative applications of computational aesthetics such as coral reef evaluation image aesthetics [ 10 ] , optimal text placement inside an image [ 18 ] , better route suggestion in a city based on surroundings [ 25 ] or personality prediction [ 29 ] some underexplored areas proposed by this review are : personalization feedback in predictions , non - photographic images , black and white artistic consideration , and exif camera metadata ..",
    "99    battiato , s. , moltisanti , m. , ravi , f. , bruna , a. r. , naccari , f. ( 2013 , february ) .",
    "aesthetic scoring of digital portraits for consumer applications . in ist / spie electronic imaging ( pp .",
    "866008 - 866008 ) .",
    "international society for optics and photonics .",
    "bhattacharya , s. , sukthankar , r. , shah , m. ( 2010 , october ) . a framework for photo - quality assessment and enhancement based on visual aesthetics . in proceedings of the 18th acm international conference on multimedia ( pp .",
    "271 - 280 ) .",
    "acm .",
    "dalal , n. , triggs , b. ( 2005 , june ) .",
    "histograms of oriented gradients for human detection . in computer vision and pattern recognition , 2005 .",
    "cvpr 2005 .",
    "ieee computer society conference on ( vol .",
    "886 - 893 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "dhar , s. , ordonez , v. , berg , t. l. ( 2011 , june ) .",
    "high level describable attributes for predicting aesthetics and interestingness . in computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2011 ieee conference on ( pp .",
    "1657 - 1664 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "ke , y. , tang , x. , jing , f. ( 2006 , june ) .",
    "the design of high - level features for photo quality assessment . in computer vision and pattern recognition , 2006 ieee computer society conference on ( vol .",
    "419 - 426 ) .",
    "lai , c. y. , chen , p. h. , shih , s. w. , liu , y. , hong , j. s. ( 2010 ) .",
    "computational models and experimental investigations of effects of balance and symmetry on the aesthetics of text - overlaid images . international journal of human - computer studies , 68(1 ) , 41 - 56 .",
    "li , c. , loui , a. c. , chen , t. ( 2010 , october ) . towards aesthetics : a photo quality assessment and photo selection system . in proceedings of the 18th acm international conference on multimedia ( pp .",
    "827 - 830 ) .",
    "acm .",
    "machajdik , j. , hanbury , a. ( 2010 , october ) .",
    "affective image classification using features inspired by psychology and art theory . in proceedings of the international conference on multimedia ( pp .",
    "83 - 92 ) .",
    "nishiyama , m. , okabe , t. , sato , i. , sato , y. ( 2011 , june ) .",
    "aesthetic quality classification of photographs based on color harmony . in computer vision and pattern recognition ( cvpr ) , 2011 ieee conference ( pp .",
    "33 - 40 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "quercia , d. , ohare , n. k. , cramer , h. ( 2014 , february ) .",
    "aesthetic capital : what makes london look beautiful , quiet , and happy ? . in proceedings of the 17th acm conference on computer supported cooperative work social computing ( pp .",
    "945 - 955 ) .",
    "redies , c. , amirshahi , s. a. , koch , m. , denzler , j. ( 2012 , october ) .",
    "phog - derived aesthetic measures applied to color photographs of artworks , natural scenes and objects . in computer vision ",
    "eccv 2012 .",
    "workshops and demonstrations ( pp . 522 - 531 ) .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg .",
    "romero , j. , machado , p. , carballal , a. , osorio , o. ( 2011 ) . aesthetic classification and sorting based on image compression . in applications of evolutionary computation ( pp .",
    "394 - 403 ) .",
    "springer berlin heidelberg .",
    "segalin , c. ; perina , a. ; cristani , m. ; vinciarelli , a. , ( 2016 ) the pictures we like are our image : continuous mapping of favorite pictures into self - assessed and attributed personality traits , in affective computing , ieee transactions on , vol.pp , no.99 , pp.1 - 1    schifanella , r. , redi , m. , aiello , l. m. an image is worth more than a thousand favorites : surfacing the hidden beauty of flickr pictures . in icwsm15 : proceedings of the 9th aaai international conference on weblogs and social media .",
    "aaai              wei - ning , w. , ying - lin , y. , sheng - ming , j. ( 2006 , october ) .",
    "image retrieval by emotional semantics : a study of emotional space and feature extraction . in systems ,",
    "man and cybernetics , 2006 .",
    "ieee international conference on ( vol .",
    "3534 - 3539 ) .",
    "ieee .",
    "zhang , l. , gao , y. , zimmermann , r. , tian , q. , li , x. ( 2014 ) .",
    "fusion of multichannel local and global structural cues for photo aesthetics evaluation.image processing , ieee transactions on , 23(3 ) , 1419 - 1429 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> researchers try to model the aesthetic quality of photographs into low and high - level features , drawing inspiration from art theory , psychology and marketing . </S>",
    "<S> we attempt to describe every feature extraction measure employed in the above process . </S>",
    "<S> the contribution of this literature review is the taxonomy of each feature by its implementation complexity , considering real - world applications and integration in mobile apps and digital cameras . also , we discuss the machine learning results along with some unexplored research areas as future work .    image processing , feature extraction , photograph quality assessment </S>"
  ]
}