{
  "article_text": [
    "life science is regarded as the last forefront in natural science and the 21@xmath0 century will be the century of biological sciences .",
    "molecular biology is the foundation of biological sciences and molecular mechanism , which is governed by all the valid mechanics , including quantum mechanics when it is relevant , and is the ultimate truth of life science .",
    "one trend of biological sciences in the 21@xmath0 century is that many traditional disciplines , such as epidemiology , neuroscience , zoology , physiology and population biology , are transforming from macroscopic and phenomenological to molecular - based sciences .",
    "another trend is that biological sciences in the 21@xmath0 century are transforming from qualitative and descriptive to quantitative and predictive , as many other disciplines in natural science have done in the past .",
    "such a transformation creates unprecedented opportunities for mathematically driven advances in life science @xcite .",
    "biomolecules , such as proteins and the nucleic acids , including dna and rna , are essential for all known forms of life , such as animals , fungi , protists , archaea , bacteria and plants .",
    "indeed , proteins perform a vast variety of biological functions , including membrane channel transport , signal transduction , organism structure supporting , enzymatic catalysis for transcription and the cell cycle , and immune agents . in contrast",
    ", nucleic acids function in association with proteins and are essential players in encoding , transmitting and expressing genetic information , which is stored through nucleic acid sequences , i.e. , dna or rna molecules and transmitted via transcription and translation processes .",
    "the understanding of biomolecular structure , function , dynamics and transport is a fundamental issue in molecular biology and biophysics .",
    "a traditional dogma is that sequence determines structure , while structure determines function @xcite .",
    "this , however , has been undermined by the fact that many intrinsically disordered proteins can also be functional @xcite .",
    "disordered proteins are associated with sporadic neurodegenerative diseases , including alzheimer s disease , parkinson s disease and mad cow disease @xcite .",
    "randomness in disordered proteins is a consequence of protein flexibility , which is an intrinsic protein function .",
    "in general , the understanding of protein structure - function relationship is also crucial for shedding light on protein specification , protein - protein interactions , protein - drug binding that are essential to drug design and discovery , and improving human health and wellbeing .",
    "much of the present understanding of biomolecular structures and functions and their relationship come from experimental data that are collected from a number of means , such as macromolecular x - ray crystallography , nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) , cryo - electron microscopy ( cryo - em ) , electron paramagnetic resonance ( epr ) , multiangle light scattering , confocal laser - scanning microscopy , scanning capacitance microscopy , small angle scattering , ultra fast laser spectroscopy , etc .",
    "the major players for single macromolecules are x - ray crystallography and nmr . for example , advanced x - ray crystallography technology is able to offer decisive structural information at armstrong and sub - armstrong resolutions , while an important advantage of nmr experiments is that they are able to provide biomolecular structural information under physiological conditions .",
    "the continuously effort in the past few decades has made x - ray crystallography and nmr technologically relatively well developed , except for their use in special circumstances , such as the study of membrane proteins .",
    "however , theses approaches are not directly suitable for proteasomes , subcellular structures , organelles , cells and tissues , whose study has become increasingly popular in structural biology .",
    "currently , a unique experimental tool for imaging subcellular structures , organelles , multiprotein complexes and even cells and tissues is cryo - em @xcite .",
    "the rapid advances of experimental technology in the past few decades have led to the accumulation of vast amount of three - dimensional ( 3d ) biomolecular structural data .",
    "the http://www.rcsb.org/pdb/home/home.do[protein data bank ( pdb ) ] has collected more than one hundred twenty thousands of 3d biomolecular structures .",
    "biomolecular geometric information holds the key to our understanding of biomolecular structure , function , and dynamics .",
    "it has wide spread applications in virtual screening , computer - aid drug design , binding pocket descriptor , quantitative structure activity relationship , protein design , rna design , molecular machine design , etc . in general , the availability of biomolecular structural data has paved the way for the transition from the traditional qualitative description to quantitative analysis and prediction in biological sciences .",
    "an essential ingredient of quantitative biology is geometric , topological and graph theory modeling , analysis and computation . aided by increasingly powerful high performance computers , geometric , topological and graph theory modeling , analysis and computation",
    "have become indispensable apparatuses not only for the visualization of biological data , but also filling the gap between biological data and mathematical models of biological systems @xcite .",
    "one of the simplest molecular geometric models , or molecular structural models , is the space - filling corey - pauling - koltun ( cpk ) theory , which represents an atom by a solid sphere with a van der waals ( vdw ) radius @xcite .",
    "the outer boundary of cpk model gives rise to the van der waals ( vdw ) surface , which is composed of piece - wise unburied sphere surfaces .",
    "solvent accessible surface ( sas ) and solvent - excluded surface ( ses ) have also been introduced to create smooth molecular surfaces by rolling a probe molecule over the vdw surface @xcite .",
    "sess have widely been applied to protein folding @xcite , protein surface topography @xcite , protein - protein interactions @xcite , dna binding and bending @xcite , macromolecular docking @xcite , enzyme catalysis @xcite , drug classification @xcite , and solvation energies @xcite .",
    "the ses model also plays a crucial role in implicit solvent models @xcite , molecular dynamics simulations @xcite and ion channel transports @xcite .",
    "computationally , efficient algorithms for computing ses are developed or introduced , such as alpha - shapes @xcite and marching tetrahedra @xcite .",
    "a popular software for the lagrangian representation of sess , called msms , has been developed @xcite .",
    "recently , a software package , called eulerian solvent excluded surface ( eses ) , for the eulerian representation of sess @xcite , has also been developed .",
    "however sas and ses are still not differentiable and have geometric singularities , i.e. , cusps and tips . to construct smooth surface representation of macromolecules , gaussian surface ( gs ) has been proposed to represent each atom by a c@xmath1 gaussian function , while accounting their overlapping properties @xcite .",
    "differential geometry theory of surfaces provides a natural approach to describe biomolecular surfaces and boundaries . utilizing the euler - lagrange variation , a differential geometry based surface model , the minimal molecular surface ( mms ) , has been introduced for biomolecular geometric modeling @xcite .",
    "differential geometry based variational approach has been widely applied to biophysical modeling of solvation @xcite , ion channel @xcite and multiscale analysis @xcite , in conjugation with other physical models , such as electrostatics , elasticity and molecular mechanics @xcite .",
    "geometry modeling and annotation of biomolecular surfaces together with physical features , such as electrostatics and lipophilicity , provide some of the best predictions of biomolecular solvation free energies @xcite , protein - drug binding affinities @xcite , protein mutation energy changes @xcite and protein - protein interaction hot spots @xcite .",
    "theoretical modeling of the structure - function relationship of biomolecules is usually based on fundamental laws of physics , i.e. , quantum mechanics ( qm ) , molecular mechanism ( mm ) , continuum mechanics , statistical mechanics , thermodynamics , etc .",
    "qm methods are indispensable for chemical reactions and protein degradations @xcite .",
    "molecular dynamics ( md ) @xcite is a powerful tool for the understanding of the biomolecular conformational landscapes and elucidating collective motion and fluctuation .",
    "currently , md is a main workhorse in molecular biophysics for biomolecular modeling and simulation .",
    "however , all - electron or all - atom representations and long - time integrations lead to such an excessively large number of degrees of freedom that their application to real - time large - scale dynamics of large proteins or multiprotein complexes becomes prohibitively expensive . for instance , current computer simulations of protein folding take many months to come up with a very poor copy of what nature administers perfectly within a tiny fraction of a second . therefore , in the past few decades , many graph theory based biomolecular models , including normal mode analysis ( nma ) @xcite , elastic network model ( enm ) @xcite become very popular for understanding protein flexibility and long time dynamics . in these models , the diagonalization of the interaction matrix or hamiltonian of a protein is a required procedure to obtain protein eigenmodes and associated eigenvalues .",
    "the low order eigenmodes can be interpreted as the slow motions of the protein around the equilibrium state and the moore - penrose pseudo - inverse matrix can be used to predict the protein thermal factors , or b - factors . however , nma interaction potentials are quite complicated .",
    "tirion simplified its complexity by retaining only the harmonic potential for elasticity , which is the dominant term in the md hamiltonian @xcite .",
    "network theory @xcite has had a considerable impact in protein flexibility analysis .",
    "the combination of elasticity and coarse - grained network gives rise to elastic network model ( enm ) @xcite . in this spirit , gaussian network model ( gnm ) @xcite and anisotropic network model ( anm ) @xcite have been proposed .",
    "yang et al .",
    "@xcite have shown that the gnm is about one order more efficient than most other flexibility approaches .",
    "the above graph theory based methods have been improved in a number of aspects , including crystal periodicity and cofactor corrections @xcite , and density - cluster rotational - translational blocking @xcite .",
    "these approaches have many applications in biophysics , including stability analysis @xcite , molecular docking @xcite , and viral capsid analysis @xcite .",
    "in particular , based on spectral graph theory that the behavior of the second eigenmode can be used for clustering , these methods have been utilized to unveil the molecular mechanism of the protein domain motions of hemoglobin @xcite , f1 atpase @xcite , chaperonin groel @xcite and the ribosome @xcite .",
    "the reader is referred to reviews for more details @xcite .",
    "note that enm type of methods is still too expensive for analyzing subcellular organelles and multiportein complexes , such as hiv and zika virus , and molecular motors , due to their matrix decomposition procedure which is of the order of @xmath2 in computational complexity , where @xmath3 is the number of network nodes , or protein atoms .",
    "an interesting and important mathematical issue is how to reduce the computational complexity of enm , gnm and anm for handling excessively large biomolecules .",
    "flexibility - rigidity index ( fri ) has been developed as a more accurate and efficient method for biomolecular graph analysis @xcite .",
    "in particular , aided with a cell lists algorithm @xcite , the fast fri ( ffri ) is about ten percent more accurate than gnm on a test set of 364 proteins and is orders of magnitude faster than gnm on a set of 44 proteins , due to its @xmath4 computational complexity .",
    "it has been demonstrated that ffri is able to predict the b - factors of an entire hiv virus capsid with 313,236 residues in less than 30 seconds on a single - core processor , which would require gnm more than 120 years to accomplish if its computer memory were not a problem @xcite .",
    "topological analysis of molecules has become very popular since the introduction of the theory of atoms in molecules ( aim ) for molecular electron density data by bader and coworkers @xcite .",
    "aim was proposed to quantitatively define the atomic bonds and interatomic surfaces ( iass ) by employing a topology based partition of electron density .",
    "it has two main strands : the scalar field topology of molecular electron density maps and the scalar field topology of the local laplacian of electron density @xcite .",
    "the former characterizes chemical bonds and atoms , and the latter provides a new procedure to analyze electron pair localization",
    ". electron localization function ( elf ) @xcite was proposed for the study of electron pairing .",
    "elf utilizes the gradient vector field topology to partition the electron density map into topological basins .",
    "in fact , a general theory called quantum chemical topology ( qct ) @xcite has been developed for the topological analysis of electron density functions .",
    "apart form the above mentioned aim and elf , qct also includes the electrostatic potential @xcite , electron localizability indicator ( eli ) @xcite , localized orbital locator ( lol ) @xcite , the virial field @xcite , the magnetically induced current distribution @xcite , the total energy ( catchment regions ) @xcite and the intracule density @xcite .",
    "qct has proved to be very effective in analyzing interactions between atoms in molecular systems , particularly the covalent interactions and chemical structure of small molecular systems .",
    "many software packages have been developed for qct analysis @xcite .",
    "the essential idea behind qct is the scalar field topology analysis @xcite , which includes several major components such as critical points ( cps ) and their classification , zero - flux interface ( interatomic interface ) , gradient vector field , etc .",
    "in fact , when vector field topology is applied to the gradient of a scalar function , it coincides with scalar field topology . mathematically , this topological analysis is also known as the morse theory , which describes the topological structure of a closed manifold by means of a nondegenerate gradient vector field .",
    "morse theory is a powerful tool for studying the topology of molecular structural data through critical points of a morse function .",
    "a well - defined morse function needs to be differentiable and its cps are isolated and non - degenerated .",
    "it can be noticed that all the above - mentioned scalar fields in qct are morse functions and more can be proposed as long as they satisfy the morse function constraints . in the morse theory ,",
    "critical points are classified into minima , maxima , and saddle points based on their indices . in aim , the three types of cps are associated with chemical meanings .",
    "a maximal cp is called a nucleic critical point ( ncp ) .",
    "a minimal cp is related with cage critical point ( ccp ) .",
    "finally , saddle points can be further classified into two types , i.e. , bond critical points ( bcps ) and ring critical points ( rcps ) .",
    "current research issues in qct include how to reduce the computational complexity and extend this approach for biomolecules @xcite .",
    "additionally , its connection to scalar field topology and vector field topology needs to be further clarified so that related mathematical theories , including poincar - hopf theorem @xcite , conley index theory @xcite , floer homology , etc . , and algorithms developed in computer science can be better applied to molecular sciences .    in additional to differential topology , algebraic topology , specifically , persistent homology , has drawn much attention in recent years .",
    "persistent homology has been developed as a new multiscale representation of topological features . the 0th dimensional version was originally introduced for computer vision applications under the name  size function \" @xcite and the idea was also studied by robins @xcite .",
    "persistent homology theory was formulated , together with an algorithm given , by edelsbrunner et al .",
    "@xcite , and a more general theory was developed by zomorodian and carlsson @xcite",
    ". there has since been significant theoretical development @xcite , as well as various computational algorithms @xcite .",
    "often , persistent homology can be visualized through barcodes @xcite , in which various horizontal line segments or bars are the homology generators that survive over filtration scales .",
    "persistence diagrams are another equivalent representation @xcite .",
    "computational homology and persistent homology have been applied to a variety of domains , including image analysis @xcite , chaotic dynamics verification @xcite , sensor network @xcite , complex network @xcite , data analysis @xcite , shape recognition @xcite and computational biology @xcite .",
    "compared with traditional computational topology @xcite and/or computational homology , persistent homology inherently has an additional dimension , the filtration parameter , which can be utilized to embed some crucial geometric or quantitative information into topological invariants . the importance of retaining geometric information in topological analysis has been recognized @xcite , and topology has been advocated as a new approach for tackling big datasets @xcite . most recently , persistent homology has been developed as a powerful tool for analyzing biomolecular topological fingerprints @xcite , quantitative fullerene stability analysis @xcite , topological transition in protein folding @xcite , cryo - em structure determination @xcite , and in conjugation with machine learning for protein classification @xcite and protein - ligand / drug binding affinity prediction @xcite .",
    "differential geometry based topological persistence @xcite and multidimensional persistence @xcite have also been developed for biomolecules analysis and modeling .",
    "it is worthy to mention that persistent topology along is able to outperform all the eminent methods in computational biophysics for the blind binding affinity prediction of protein - ligand complexes from massive data sets @xcite .",
    "the objective of this paper is threefold .",
    "first , the main objective is to provide a review of some widely used geometric , topological and graph theory apparatuses for the modeling and analysis of biomolecular data .",
    "we keep our description concise , elementary and accessible to upper level undergraduate students in mathematics and most researchers in computational biophysics .",
    "we point out some open problems and potential topics in our discussions .",
    "our goal is to provide a reference for mathematicians who are interested in mathematical molecular bioscience and biophysics ( mmbb ) , an emergent field in mathematics @xcite , and for biophysicists and theoreticians who are interested in mathematical foundations of many theoretical approaches in molecular biology and biophysics .",
    "obviously , our topic selection is limited by our knowledge , experience and understanding , and for the same reason , we might have missed many important results and references on the selected topics as well .",
    "additionally , inspired by the success of qct and persistent homology , the density filtration for hessian matrix eigenvalue maps and molecular curvature maps has been introduced .",
    "both maps are constructed from molecular rigidity density obtained via a discrete to continuum mapping ( dcm ) technique , which transfers atomic information in a molecule to atomic density distribution , a continuous scalar function . in this approach ,",
    "a series of isosurfaces are generated and systematically studied for eigenvalue and curvature maps .",
    "geometric and topological ( geo - topo ) fingerprints are identified to characterize unique patterns within eigenvalue and curvature maps , specifically , the maps of three eigenvalues derived from local hessian matrix at each location of the rigidity density and the maps of gaussian , mean , maximal and minimal curvatures computed everywhere of the rigidity density .",
    "topological properties of eigenvalue and curvature maps are classified by their critical points .",
    "the evolution of isosurfaces during the filtration process is found to be well characterized by cps .",
    "different behaviors are found in different types of maps .",
    "persistent homology analysis is also employed for eigenvalue map analysis to reveal intrinsic topological invariants of three hessian matrix eigenvalues .",
    "finally , a new minimal molecular surface , called analytical minimal molecular surface ( amms ) via the zero - value isosurface of the mean curvature map , has been introduced .",
    "it is found that this new surface definition can capture the topological property , such as the inner bond information .",
    "it also offers an efficient geometric modeling of biomolecules .",
    "the rest of this paper is organized as following : section [ sec : discrete ] is devoted to a review of some discrete mathematical apparatuses , namely , graph theory and persistent homology , for the analysis and modeling of biomolecular data .",
    "more specifically , we illustrate the applications of graph theory , gaussian network model , anisotropic network model , normal mode analysis , flexibility and rigidity index , spectral graph theory , and persistent homology to biomolecular data analysis , such as protein b - factor prediction , domain separation , anisotropic motion , topological fingerprints , etc .",
    "the review of some continuous geometric and topological apparatuses for scalar field topology and geometry are given in section [ sec : continuous ] .",
    "we examine the basic concepts in differential geometry , biomolecular surfaces , curvature analysis , and theory of atoms in molecules .",
    "discrete to continuum mapping and two algorithms for curvature evaluation are discussed .",
    "further , we introduce two new approaches , i.e. , hessian matrix eigenvalue maps and curvature maps , for geometric - topological fingerprint analysis of biomolecular data .",
    "the relation between scalar field geometry and topological cps are discussed in detail .",
    "a new analytical minimal molecular surface is also introduced .",
    "virtual particle model is proposed to analyze the anisotropic motions of continuous scalar fields , such as cryo - em maps .",
    "finally , persistent homology analysis for eigenvalue scalar field is discussed .",
    "this paper ends with some concluding remarks .",
    "one of the major challenges in the biological sciences is the prediction of protein functions from protein structures .",
    "one function prediction is about protein flexibility , which strongly correlates with biomolecular enzymatic activities , such as allosteric transition , ligand binding and catalysis , as well as protein stiffness and rigidity for structural supporting .",
    "for instance , in enzymatic processes , protein flexibility enhances protein - protein interactions , which in turn reduce the activation energy barrier .",
    "additionally , protein flexibility and motion amplify the probability of barrier crossing in enzymatic chemical reactions .",
    "therefore , the investigation of protein flexibility at a variety of energy spectra and time scales is vital to the understanding and prediction of other protein functions .",
    "currently , the most important technique for protein flexibility analysis is x - ray crystallography . among more than one hundred twenty thousand structures in the protein data bank (",
    "pdb ) , more than eighty percent structures are collected by x - ray crystallography . the debye - waller factor , or b",
    "- factor , can be directly computed from x - ray diffraction or other diffraction data . in the pdb ,",
    "biomolecular structures are recorded in terms of ( discrete ) atomic types , atomic positions , occupation numbers , and b - factors .",
    "although atomic b - factors are directly associated with atomic flexibility , they can be influenced by variations in atomic diffraction cross sections and chemical stability during the diffraction data collection .",
    "therefore , only the b - factors for specific types of atoms , say c@xmath5 atoms , can be directly interpreted as their relative flexibility without corrections .",
    "another important method for accessing protein flexibility is nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) which often provides structural flexibility information under physiological conditions .",
    "nmr spectroscopy allows the characterization of protein flexibility in diverse spatial dimensions and a large range of time scales .",
    "about six percent of structures in the pdb are determined by electron microscopy ( em ) which does not directly offer the flexibility information at present .",
    "therefore , it is important to have mathematical or biophysical methods to predict their flexibility .",
    "with the development of experimental tools , vast amount of data for biomolecular structures and interaction networks are available and provide us with unprecedented opportunities in mathematical modeling .",
    "the graph theory and network models have been widely used in the study of biomolecular structures and interactions and found many applications in drug design , protein function analysis , gene identification , rna structure representation , etc .",
    "@xcite generally speaking , biomolecular graph and network models can be divided into two major categories , namely , abstract graph / network models , which include biomolecular interaction - network models , and geometric graph / network models , where the distance geometry plays an important role .",
    "the geometric graph models or biomolecular structure graph models construct unique graphs based on biomolecular 3d structural data .",
    "the graph theory is then employed to analyze biomolecular properties in four major aspects : flexibility and rigidity analysis , protein mode analysis , protein domain decomposition and biomolecular nonlinear dynamics .",
    "many other network based approaches , including gnm @xcite and anm @xcite , have been developed for protein flexibility analysis .",
    "more recently , fri has been proposed as a matrix - decomposition - free method for flexibility analysis , @xcite .",
    "the fundamental assumptions of the fri method are as follows .",
    "protein functions , such as flexibility , rigidity , and energy , are fully determined by the structure of the protein and its environment , and the protein structure is in turn determined by the relevant interactions .",
    "therefore , whenever a native protein structure is available , there is no need to analyze protein flexibility and rigidity by tracing back to the protein interaction hamiltonian .",
    "consequently , the fri bypasses the @xmath2 matrix diagonalization .",
    "in fact , fri does not even require the 3d geometric information of the protein structure .",
    "it assesses graphic connectivity of the protein distance geometry and analyzes the geometric compactness of the protein structure .",
    "it can be regarded as a kernel generalization of the local density model @xcite .",
    "another very important application of biomolecular structure graph model is the protein mode analysis .",
    "as stated above , the low order eigenmodes provide information of the protein dynamics at equilibrium state",
    ". normal mode analysis ( nma ) plays important roles in mode analysis .",
    "however , its potential function involves too many interactions and it is very inefficient for large biomolecular systems .",
    "anisotropic network model ( anm ) has dramatically reduced the complexity of the potential function by representing the biological macromolecule as an elastic mass - and - spring network . in the network",
    "each node is a c@xmath5 atom of the associated residue and springs represent the interactions between the nodes .",
    "the overall potential is the sum of harmonic potentials between interacting nodes .",
    "to describe the internal motions of the spring connecting two atoms , there is only one degree of freedom .",
    "qualitatively , this corresponds to the compression and expansion of the spring in a direction given by the locations of the two atoms . in other words",
    ", anm is an extension of the gnm to three coordinates per atom , thus accounting for directionality .",
    "the biomolecular structure graph models can also be used in protein domain decomposition .",
    "the biomolecular structural domains are stable and compact units of the structure that can fold independent of the rest of the protein and perform a specific function .",
    "a domain usually contains a hydrophobic core and a protein is usually formed by the combination of two or several domains .",
    "there are many methods that decompose a protein structure into domains @xcite .",
    "some of them are done manually through structure visualization .",
    "one of them is the structural classification of proteins ( scop ) database , where data are largely manually classified into protein structural domains based on similarities of their structures and amino acid sequences . with",
    "the surge of protein structure data , efficient and robust computational algorithms are developed .",
    "they have demonstrated a high level of consistency and robustness in the process of partitioning a structure into domains .",
    "graph theory is also used in rna structure analysis , particularly in rna motif representation and rna classification@xcite .",
    "spectral graph theory is widely used for clustering .",
    "the essential idea is to study and explore graphs through the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of matrices naturally associated with these graphs .",
    "molecular nonlinear dynamics ( mnd ) models can be naturally derived from biomolecular graph models @xcite .",
    "essentially , each node in the graph is an atom and represented by a nonlinear oscillator .",
    "these nonlinear oscillators are connected through the graph connectivity . in this manner , one can study protein structure and function through the nonlinear dynamics theory widely used in chaos , synchronization , stability , pattern formation , etc .",
    "[ cols=\"^ \" , ]     finally , the topological persistence in the scalar fields generated by hessian matrix eigenvalues and curvatures is studied .",
    "the hexagonal ring is used for persistent homology analysis .",
    "the barcodes for eigenvalues @xmath6 , @xmath7 and @xmath8 are demonstrated in figs .",
    "[ fig : c6_eigen_ph ] ( a)-(c ) . in each subfigure ,",
    "results for @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath11 are presented .",
    "the filtration goes from the smallest value to the largest in the persistent homology analysis .    for @xmath6 , at very small values , it has @xmath12 @xmath9 bars , i.e. , @xmath12 independent components .",
    "topologically , it represents small @xmath6 negative values concentrating around @xmath12 ncps . as the filtration progresses , a loop is formed , which leads to a bar in @xmath10 .",
    "further down the filtration process , @xmath9 isosurface begins to shrink to two balls perpendicular to the rcp .",
    "this contributes two bars in @xmath11 .    for @xmath7",
    ", again @xmath12 @xmath9 bars are found in the earliest stage of the filtration . here",
    "@xmath12 independent components quickly combine to form a loop as filtration progresses .",
    "more interesting , individual loops around bcps form when filtration value is around the range from 0 to 1 .",
    "finally , isosurfaces shrink into the rcp .    for @xmath8 , smallest",
    "negative values are concentrated around ncps and contribute @xmath12 @xmath9 bars at the earliest stage of the filtration .",
    "once the isosurface value becomes positive , a new component emerges due to the generation of a new isosurface at the boundary region .",
    "this new isosurface also contributes to a long persisting @xmath11 bar .",
    "further down the filtration , @xmath12 more @xmath9 bars occur , each representing a very narrow ring region around atom bonds .",
    "these regions are relatively small and quickly disappear .",
    "after that , @xmath12  hat \" regions attaching to the original ncp isosurfaces emerge , contributing to @xmath12 small loops .",
    "they quickly become detached and shrink away . at same time , @xmath12 isosurfaces form near the bcp and gradually disappear .",
    "together they contribute 12 independent @xmath11 bars .",
    "it can be seen that barcodes in figs .",
    "[ fig : c6_eigen_ph ] ( a)-(c ) give a detailed account of the full spectrum of the isosurface evolution process in figs .",
    "[ fig : c6_eigen_3d ] ( a@xmath13-(a@xmath14 .",
    "every field in natural science , engineering , medicine , finance and social sciences becomes quantitative when it is getting mature .",
    "mathematics is essential for all quantitative fields .",
    "being regarded the last scientific forefront , biological sciences , particularly molecular biology and structural biology , have accumulated gigantic among of data in terms of biomolecular structures , activity relations and genetic sequences in the past few decades and are transforming from qualitative and phenomenological to quantitative and predictive . such a transformation offers unprecedented opportunities for mathematically driven advances in biological sciences @xcite .",
    "geometry , topology , and graph theory are some of the core mathematics and have been naturally playing a unique role in molecular biology and molecular biophysics . in this paper , we present a brief review of geometric , topological , and graph theory apparatuses that are important to the contemporary molecular biology and biophysics .",
    "we first discuss the discrete methods and models , including graph theory , gaussian network models , anisotropic network model , normal mode analysis , flexibility - rigidity index , molecular nonlinear dynamics , spectral graph theory and persistent homology for biomolecular modeling and analysis .",
    "additionally , we describe continuous algorithms and theories , including , discrete to continuum mapping , multidimensional persistent homology for volumetric data sets , geometric modeling of biomolecules , differential geometry theory of surfaces , curvature analysis , atoms in molecule theory , and quantum chemical topology theory .",
    "attention is paid to the connections between existing biophysical approaches and standard mathematical subjects , such as , morse theory , poincar hopf index , differential topology , etc .",
    "open problems and potential new directions are point out in discussions .    two new models , namely the analytical minimal molecular surface and virtual particle model , and two new methods , i.e.",
    ", hessian eigenvalue map and curvature map , are introduced for biomolecular modeling and analysis .",
    "these new approaches were inspirited by the subject under review during our preparation of this review . for simplicity , only the proof - of - principle applications are demonstrated for all methods , models , theories and algorithms covered in this review .    selected mathematical topics in geometry , topology , and graph theory",
    "are based on our limited knowledge and understanding of mathematics and molecular biophysics .",
    "many subjects in geometry , topology , and graph theory that have found much success in molecular biology and biophysics have not been covered in this review .",
    "one of these subjects is knot theory , particularly the dna knot theory , which is also a very important ingredient of topological modeling of biomolecules @xcite .",
    "knot theory is an area of geometric topology that deals with knots and links .",
    "mathematically , a knot is an embedding of circles or its homeomorphisms in the three - dimensional ( 3d ) euclidean space , @xmath15 .",
    "physically , dna , as a genetic material , exists usually in two very long strands that intertwine to form chromatins , bind with histones to build nucleosomes , tie into knots , and are subjected to successive coiling before package into chromosomes .",
    "the loss of knots in chromosomes can cause angelman and prader - willi syndromes .",
    "dna knot theory has been a very important topic in applied topology .",
    "however , in this review , focus is given to geometric and topological methods and models for atomistic biomolecular data .",
    "therefore , dna knot theory is not covered .",
    "another relevant subject that have not been considered in this review is biomolecular interaction network models , including protein interaction networks , metabolic networks and transcriptional regulatory networks .",
    "obviously , part of the mathematical foundation of these models is graph theory .",
    "protein interaction networks are designed to study protein - protein interactions @xcite .",
    "normally , in these models , proteins are represented as nodes and physical interaction between them are represented by edges . to make the network more reliable ,",
    "data from different sources are combined together and different rules are applied for the identification of protein interactions .",
    "a metabolic network considers all metabolic and physical processes happened within a cell @xcite .",
    "this network comprises the chemical reactions of metabolism , the metabolic pathways , as well as the regulatory interactions that guide these reactions .",
    "transcriptional regulatory networks describe the regulatory interactions between genes @xcite . in this network , each gene is represented by a node and the regulation relations are represented by edges .",
    "the exclusion of this subject is also due to our focus on atomistic biomolecular data .",
    "topological graph theory concerns immersions of graphs as well as the embedding of graphs in surfaces , spatial embeddings of graphs , and graphs as topological spaces .",
    "it has had much success in the mathematical modeling of dna recombination , dna - rna interactions , protein folding and protein - protein interactions @xcite .",
    "the exclusion of this subject is due to our insufficient knowledge and understanding .",
    "for the same reason , fascinating applications of combinatorics , algebra and tiling theory in the modeling of viral capsid self assembly @xcite have not been covered in our review .    a continuous",
    ", differentiable curve can be embedded in a three - dimensional euclidean space and its kinematic properties , such as the derivatives of tangent , normal , and binormal unit vectors , can be described by frenet - serret formulas in differential geometry @xcite .",
    "discrete frenet - serret frame offers an efficient description of amino - acid and/or nucleic acid chains @xcite .",
    "we believe that discrete frenet - serret frame can be easily applied to rna chains , microtubules , nucleosomes , chromatins , active chromosomes and metaphase chromosomes .    an emergent approach is to combine machine learning with geometry , topology and/or graph theory for analyzing biomolecular data @xcite .",
    "machine learning is a cutting edge computer science and statistical tool originally developed for pattern recognition and artificial intelligence .",
    "its combination with mathematical apparatuses leads to extremely powerful approaches to massive biomolecular data challenges , such as the blind predictions of solvation free energies @xcite and protein - ligand binding affinity prediction @xcite .",
    "for example , topological learning algorithm that utilizes exclusively persistent homology and machine learning for protein - ligand binding affinity predictions outperforms all the existing eminent methods in computational biophysics over massive binding data sets @xcite .",
    "however , this subject is at its early stage and is evolving too fast to have a conclusive review at present .",
    "it is worth mentioning that the geometric , topological and graph theory apparatuses discussed in this review can be employed in conjugation with partial differential equation ( pde ) , which is widely used in computational biophysics , to model biomolecular systems .",
    "certainly geometric modeling is often a prerequisite in the pde models of electrostatics , solvation , ion channels , membrane - protein interactions , and biomolecular elasticity @xcite .",
    "as mentioned in section [ sec : spectral ] , the graph cut problem can be formulated as a free energy minimization .",
    "such a formulation makes it possible to combine spectral graph theory with pde approaches for a wide range of biophysical modeling for biomolecular systems , including solvation , ion channel , biomembrane , protein - ligand binding , protein - protein interaction and protein - nucleic acid interaction .",
    "finally , connection between algebraic topology and differential geometry , including laplace - beltrami operator , has been made @xcite .",
    "essentially , one defines an object function to optimize certain biophysical properties , which leads to a laplace - beltrami operator that generates a multiscale representation of the initial data and offers an object - oriented filtration process for persistent homology . the resulting differential geometry based object - oriented persistent homology is able to preserve desirable geometric features in the evolutionary filtration and enhances the corresponding topological persistence",
    "however , how to design object - oriented persistent homology to automatically extract desirable features in the original biomolecular data during the filtration process is still an open problem .",
    "indeed , the application aspects of geometry , topology and graph theory have become a driven force for the development of abstract geometry , topology , homology , graph theory in recent years .",
    "it is expected that a versatile variety of pure mathematics concepts , methods and techniques will find their cutting edges in the transcend description of biomolecular structure , function , dynamics and transport .",
    "this health interaction between mathematics and molecular bioscience will benefit both fields and attract young researchers for generations to come .",
    "this work was supported in part by a start - up grant from the nanyang technological university ( klx ) , nsf iis- 1302285 ( gww ) , nsf dms-1160352 ( gww ) , nih r01gm-090208 ( gww ) and msu center for mathematical molecular biosciences initiative ( gww ) .",
    "k.  beketayev , g.  h. weber , m.  haranczyk , p.t .",
    "bremer , m.  hlawitschka , and b.  hamann .",
    "topology - based visualization of transformation pathways in complex chemical systems . in _ computer graphics forum _ , volume  30 , pages 663672 .",
    "wiley online library , 2011 .",
    "frdric chazal , david cohen - steiner , marc glisse , leonidas  j. guibas , and steve oudot .",
    "proximity of persistence modules and their diagrams . in _ proc .",
    "25th acm sympos . on comput .",
    "_ , pages 237246 , 2009 .",
    "frdric chazal , leonidas  j. guibas , steve  y. oudot , and primoz skraba .",
    "persistence - based clustering in riemannian manifolds . in _ proceedings of the 27th annual acm symposium on computational geometry _ , socg 11 , pages 97106 , 2011 .",
    "david cohen - steiner , herbert edelsbrunner , john harer , and dmitriy morozov .",
    "persistent homology for kernels , images , and cokernels . in _ proceedings of the twentieth annual acm - siam symposium on discrete algorithms",
    "_ , soda 09 , pages 10111020 , 2009 .",
    "julia contreras - garca , erin  r johnson , shahar keinan , robin chaudret , jean - philip piquemal , david  n beratan , and weitao yang .",
    "nciplot : a program for plotting noncovalent interaction regions .",
    ", 7(3):625632 , 2011 .",
    "julia contreras - garca , weitao yang , and erin  r johnson .",
    "analysis of hydrogen - bond interaction potentials from the electron density : integration of noncovalent interaction regions .",
    ", 115(45):1298312990 , 2011 .                                        c.  h.  q. ding , x.  f. he , h.  y. zha , m.  gu , and h.  d. simon . a min - max cut algorithm for graph partitioning and data clustering . in _ data mining , 2001",
    "icdm 2001 , proceedings ieee international conference on _ , pages 107114 .",
    "ieee , 2001 .",
    "dragan , c.m .",
    "read , e.n .",
    "makeyeva , e.i .",
    "milgotina , m.e.a .",
    "churchill , c.  crane - robinson , and p.l .",
    "dna binding and bending by hmg boxes : energetic determinants of specificity . , 343:371393 , 2004 .",
    "n.  gillet , r.  chaudret , j.  contreras - garcia , w.  t. yang , b.  silvi , and j.  p. piquemal .",
    "coupling quantum interpretative techniques : another look at chemical mechanisms in organic reactions .",
    ", 8(11):39933997 , 2012 .",
    "e.  gin and v.  koltchinskii .",
    "empirical graph laplacian approximation of laplace beltrami operators : large sample results . in _ high dimensional probability _ , pages 238259 .",
    "institute of mathematical statistics , 2006 .",
    "m.  hein , j.  y. audibert , and u.  von  luxburg . from graphs to manifolds  weak and strong pointwise consistency of graph laplacian . in _",
    "international conference on computational learning theory _ , pages 470485 .",
    "springer , 2005 .",
    "a.  kitao , f.  hirata , and n.  g . the effects of solvent on the conformation and the collective motions of protein : normal mode analysis and molecular dynamics simulations of melittin in water and in vacuum . , 158(2 - 3):447472 , 1991 .",
    "bala krishnamoorthy , scott provan , and alexander tropsha . a topological characterization of protein structure . in _ data mining in biomedicine , springer optimization and its applications _ , pages 431455 , 2007 .    l.a .",
    "kuhn , m.  a. siani , m.  e. pique , c.  l. fisher , e.  d. getzoff , and j.  a. tainer .",
    "the interdependence of protein surface topography and bound water molecules revealed by surface accessibility and fractal density measures .",
    ", 228:1322 , 1992 .",
    "t.  i. lee , n.  j. rinaldi , f.  robert , d.  t. odom , z.  bar - joseph , g.  k. gerber , n.  m. hannett , c.  t. harbison , c.  m. thompson , i.  simon , et  al .",
    "transcriptional regulatory networks in saccharomyces cerevisiae .",
    ", 298(5594):799804 , 2002 .",
    "v.  natarajan , p.  koehl , y.  wang , and b.  hamann .",
    "visual analysis of biomolecular surfaces . in l.",
    "linsen , h.  hagen , and b.  hamann , editors , _ mathematical methods for visualization in medicine and life science _ , pages 237256 .",
    "springer verlag , 2008 .",
    "r.  overbeek , n.  larsen , g.  d. pusch , m.  dsouza , e.  selkov  jr , n.  kyrpides , m.  fonstein , n.  maltsev , and e.  selkov . : integrated system for high - throughput genome sequence analysis and metabolic reconstruction . ,",
    "28(1):123125 , 2000 .                                  j.  c. rain , l.  selig , h.  de  reuse , v.  battaglia , c.  reverdy , s.  simon , g.  lenzen , f.  petel , j.  wojcik , v.  schchter , y.  chemama , a.  labigne , and p.  legrain . the protein - protein interaction map of helicobacter pylori . , 409(6817):211215 , 2001 .",
    "h.  salgado , a.  santos - zavaleta , s.  gama - castro , m.  peralta - gil , m.  i. pealoza - spnola , a.  martnez - antonio , p.  d. karp , and j.  collado - vides .",
    "the comprehensive updated regulatory network of escherichia coli k-12 .",
    ", 7(1):1 , 2006 .",
    "f.  tama , m.  valle , j.  frank , and c.  k. brooks  iii .",
    "dynamic reorganization of the functionally active ribosome explored by normal mode analysis and cryo - electron microscopy .",
    ", 100(16):9319  9323 , 2003 .",
    "f.  tama , w.  wriggers , and c.  l. brooks .",
    "exploring global distortions of biological macromolecules and assemblies from low - resolution structural information and elastic network theory .",
    ", 321(2):297305 , 2002 .",
    "s.  veretnik and i.  shindyalov .",
    "computational methods for domain partitioning of protein structures . in _ computational methods for protein structure prediction and modeling _ , pages 125145 .",
    "springer new york , 2007 .",
    "y.  yao , j.  sun , x.  h. huang , g.  r. bowman , g.  singh , m.  lesnick , l.  j. guibas , v.  s. pande , and g.  carlsson .",
    "topological methods for exploring low - density states in biomolecular folding pathways . , 130:144115 , 2009 .",
    "z.  yu , m.  holst , t.  hayashi , c.  l. bajaj , m.  h. ellisman , j.  a. mccammon , and m.  hoshijima .",
    "three - dimensional geometric modeling of membrane - bound organelles in ventricular myocytes : bridging the gap between microscopic imaging and mathematical simulation .",
    ", 164:304313 , 2008 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> geometric , topological and graph theory modeling and analysis of biomolecules are of essential importance in the conceptualization of molecular structure , function , dynamics , and transport . on the one hand , </S>",
    "<S> geometric modeling provides molecular surface and structural representation , and offers the basis for molecular visualization , which is crucial for the understanding of molecular structure and interactions . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> it bridges the gap between molecular structural data and theoretical / mathematical models . </S>",
    "<S> topological analysis and modeling give rise to atomic critical points and connectivity , and shed light on the intrinsic topological invariants such as independent components ( atoms ) , rings ( pockets ) and cavities . </S>",
    "<S> graph theory analyzes biomolecular interactions and reveals biomolecular structure - function relationship . in this paper , we review certain geometric , topological and graph theory apparatuses for biomolecular data modeling and analysis . </S>",
    "<S> these apparatuses are categorized into discrete and continuous ones . for discrete approaches , graph theory , gaussian network model , anisotropic network model , normal mode analysis , quasi - harmonic analysis , flexibility and rigidity index , molecular nonlinear dynamics , spectral graph theory , and persistent homology </S>",
    "<S> are discussed . for continuous mathematical tools , we present discrete to continuum mapping , high dimensional persistent homology , biomolecular geometric modeling , differential geometry theory of surfaces , curvature evaluation , variational derivation of minimal molecular surfaces , atoms in molecule theory and quantum chemical topology . </S>",
    "<S> four new approaches , including analytical minimal molecular surface , hessian matrix eigenvalue map , curvature map and virtual particle model , are introduced for the first time to bridge the gaps in biomolecular modeling and analysis . </S>",
    "<S> emphasis is given to the connections of existing biophysical models / methods to mathematical theories , such as graph theory , morse theory , poicar - hopf theorem , differential geometry , differential topology , algebraic topology and geometric topology . </S>",
    "<S> potential new directions and standing open problems are briefly discussed .    </S>",
    "<S> key words : molecular bioscience , molecular biophysics , graph theory , graph spectral theory , graph laplacian , differential geometry , differential topology persistent homology , morse theory , conley index , poincar - hopf index , laplace - beltrami operator , dynamical system . </S>"
  ]
}