{
  "article_text": [
    "the dynamics of charged jets presents a major interest , both as an outstanding problem in non - equilibrium thermodynamics , as well as for its numerous applications in science and engineering @xcite .",
    "in particular , the recent years have witnessed a surge of interest towards the manufacturing of electrospun nanofibers , mostly on account of their prospective applications , such as tissue engineering , air and water filtration , optoelectronics , drug delivery and regenerative medicine . as a consequence , several experimental ,",
    "studies have focused on the characterization and production of one - dimensional elongated nanostructures @xcite .",
    "electrospun nanofibers are typically produced at laboratory scale via the uniaxial stretching of a jet , which is ejected at a nozzle from an electrified charged polymer solution .",
    "the charged jet elongates under the effect of an external electrostatic field applied between the spinneret and a conductive collector and eventually undergoes electromechanical ( e.g. , whipping ) instabilities due to various sources of disturbance , such as mechanical vibrations at the spinneret , hydrodynamic friction with the surrounding fluid and others . while such instabilities can be detrimental in some respect , making an accurate position of individual fibers on target substrates very hard , in other experiments they are sought for , since they result in thinner cross sections , hence finer electrospun fibres , as they hit the collector .",
    "this follows from a plain argument of mass conservation : whipping instabilities generate longer jets , hence thinner cross sections @xcite .",
    "the computational modelling of the electrospinning process is based on two main families of techniques : particle methods and lagrangian fluid methods .",
    "the former is based on the representation of the polymer jet as a discrete collection of discrete particles ( beads ) connected via elastic springs with frictional coupling ( dissipative dashpots ) and interacting via long - range coulomb electrostatics @xcite .",
    "the latter , on the other hand , describe the jet as a continuum media , obeying the navier - stokes equations for a charged fluid in lagrangian form @xcite .",
    "both methods are grid - free , hence well suited to describe abrupt changes of the jet morphology without taxing the grid resolution , as it is the case for eulerian grid methods . in this respect ,",
    "grid - based methods , such as lattice boltzmann , are not expected to offer a competitive alternative to the two aforementioned class of methods .",
    "nevertheless , owing to its efficiency , especially on parallel computers , and its flexibility towards the inclusion of physical effects beyond single - phase hydrodynamics , it appears worth exploring the possibility of using lattice boltzmann also in the framework of electrospinning .",
    "the present work reports a preliminary step along this direction .",
    "the paper is organised as follows . in section",
    "ii we present the basic features of the lattice boltzmann extension to the case of charged multiphase fluids . in sections iii , we present results for the case of charged multiphase fluids at rest , and we report on preliminary results for charged multiphase jets under conditions related to electrospinning experiments .",
    "we consider a single - specie , charged fluid as composed of point - like particles and neglect correlations stemming from excluded volume interactions .",
    "we also consider the fluid to be immersed in a charged uniform background of opposite charge , so to realize a globally electroneutral system .",
    "following boltzmann s description , the state of each fluid species is determined by the distribution function @xmath0 being the probability of finding at time @xmath1 the fluid at position @xmath2 and moving with discrete velocity @xmath3 .",
    "the latter are also viewed as vectors connecting a lattice site @xmath2 to its lattice neighbors .",
    "the macroscopic variables are given by the density @xmath4 and the fluid velocity @xmath5 .",
    "in the following , we refer to lattice units where the mesh spacing and timestep are conveniently set to unity .",
    "also , we adopt the so - called d3q19 scheme , composed by 18 discrete speeds ( connecting first and second lattice neighbors ) and one extra null vectors accounting for particles at rest . in this scheme , @xmath6 is the speed of sound that in lattice units is equal to @xmath7 . at the same time",
    ", we consider a unit fluid molecular mass , so that the thermal energy is equal to @xmath8 .",
    "the fluid carries a charge @xmath9 , so that @xmath10 is the charge density .",
    "in addition , it is subjected to internal thermodynamic forces that promote phase separation .",
    "the electrostatic potential @xmath11 generated by the charge distribution @xmath10 obeys poisson equation for electrostatics,@xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the medium dielectric permittivity .",
    "the equation can be rewritten by using the dimensionless potential @xmath14 , so that @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the bjerrum length @xmath17 .",
    "in addition , at the boundary we impose neumann boundary conditions . for insulating and uncharged walls ,",
    "these read    @xmath18    where @xmath19 is the unit vector normal to the confining surface . the fluid",
    "is then subjected to the internal electrostatic force @xmath20 and is also subjected to the external electric force , reading @xmath21 .",
    "we determine the electric potential by solving numerically the three - dimensional poisson equation by means of a sor ( successive over - relaxation ) algorithm and chebyshev acceleration , a method that has asymptotic rate of convergence larger than that of the simple sor method @xcite .",
    "phase separation forces are accounted for by means of the shan - chen method .",
    "we construct the local force as    @xmath22\\psi(\\rho(\\vec{r},t))\\ ] ]    with the sum @xmath23 running over lattice nodes where the fluid is allowed , that is , not belonging to the wall , and @xmath24 runs over nodes belonging to the wall . @xmath25 and @xmath26 are fluid - fluid and fluid - wall interaction strengths , respectively . in addition , @xmath27 where @xmath28 and @xmath29 are arbitrary constants .",
    "the lb evolution equation reads    @xmath30    where @xmath31 is the local quasi - equilibrium , @xmath32\\ ] ]    the effect of forces is accounted for by the term @xmath33 being the sum of all internal and external forces , @xmath34 , and reading    @xmath35\\ ] ]    in bulk conditions , the lb method is intrinsically second - order accurate in space and time , and , in order to ensure the same accuracy in presence of forces , the local velocity is modified according to @xcite @xmath36",
    "in order to assess the properties of our implementation for charged multiphase systems , we have initially run a set of simulations modeling a charged component system obeying the shan - chen equation of state . in order to assess the static behavior , we take a periodic mesh made of 480 x 480 x 2 nodes , that is , a _ de facto _ two - dimensional system , and prepare the system by creating a circular drop of density @xmath37 lattice units ( l.u . ) , immersed in the second background phase at lower density @xmath38 l.u .. further , the strength of non - ideal interactions was set equal to @xmath39 , @xmath40 where @xmath41 is the critical shan - chen coupling in the absence of electric fields , while the charge density @xmath42 was taken linearly dependent on density @xmath43 by constant @xmath44 .",
    "a suited quantity of a second fluid with constant @xmath45 was uniformly added to the system in order to counterbalance the positive charge of the first fluid and obtain a system with net charge zero .",
    "all simulations were performed with the muphy software @xcite , developed to simulate multi - scale systems composed by multicomponent fluids , particles and generic odes .",
    "the stationary configuration of the described system is reported in fig .",
    "[ fig:01 ] .",
    "further , we also report the electrostratic potential and the electric field in fig .",
    "[ fig:02 ] . here",
    ", we observe the clear presence of the electric field generated by the charge distribution .",
    "in particular , at the frontier of the drop the magnitude of the ( adimensional ) electric field is equal to @xmath46 l.u .. this provides a further view on the balance of forces acting at the interface , including shan - chen pressure and capillary and electrostatic forces , the latter pointing normal to the interface .",
    "it is of interest to estimate the various forces which concur to provide a stable configuration of the droplet .",
    "the mechanical balance reads as follows : @xmath47 where @xmath48 and @xmath49 are the liquid and vapour pressure , respectively , @xmath50 is the capillary pressure and @xmath51 is the repulsive electrostatic pressure .",
    "the latter can be estimated by standard considerations in electrostatics , namely : @xmath52 where @xmath53 is the liquid density , which can be safely assumed to be constant .",
    "@xmath54 in actual numbers , this ratio is equal to @xmath55 .",
    "this shows that electrostatic forces act as a small perturbation on top of the neutral multiphase physics .",
    "next , we investigate the effects of an uniform external electric field of magnitude equal to @xmath56 l.u . , and pointing along the @xmath57 axis . using the previous configuration at the equilibrium as starting point of our simulation , we report a series of snapshots density taken at different timesteps . the set in fig .",
    "[ fig:03 ] highlight the evident motion of the charged drop towards right in accordance with the direction of the electric field . from the figure ,",
    "it is manifest the clear change in the drop shape , which is affected by the velocity field surrounding the liquid phase .     for a charged drop under an external electric field of magnitude @xmath56 l.u . taken at times 250 , 750 and 1250 l.u . ]    in order to highlight the latter effect we report in fig .",
    "[ fig:04 ] the line integral convolution ( lic ) visualization technique @xcite , highlighting the fine details of the flow field . in fig .",
    "[ fig:04 ] we also report the magnitude of the fluid velocity field , from which it is apparent that the highest values are located on the right side of the drop surface .        once again , it is instructive to assess the strength of the electrostatic field in units of capillary forces , namely : @xmath58 in actual numbers , this ratio is equal to @xmath59 .",
    "this shows that the electric drive is sufficiently large to drive a net motion of the droplet providing an alteration of its shape .",
    "we set up a system modeling the electrospinning process , containing a charged shan - chen component .",
    "the system is a mesh made of 480 x 480 x 2 nodes .",
    "the system geometry presents , on the left side , a nozzle of diameter @xmath60 l.u .",
    "that reproduces the needle of the actual electrospinning apparatus where the charged fluid is injected . as a consequence ,",
    "the system is remarkably open with the inlet nodes located inside ( left side ) the nozzle ( at @xmath61 ) .",
    "similarly , we set outlet nodes on the right side ( at @xmath62 ) where the jet will impinge under the effect of the external electric field .",
    "such electric field is chosen to mimic the potential difference that is normally applied between the nozzle and a conductive collector in the real electrospinning setup .",
    "the computational setup is quite sensitive to the choice of the simulation parameters , and numerical stability has to be guaranteed by finely tuning the several parameters , in particular : the density and velocity of inlet and outlet nodes , the shan - chen coupling constants of fluid - fluid and fluid - wall interactions , the charge constant and the magnitude of the external electric field .",
    "after preliminary simulations , we obtain a good set of parameters that guarantee a stable and well - shaped charged jet ejected from the nozzle .",
    "the initial density of the two phases are @xmath63 and @xmath64 for the liquid and gaseous phase , respectively .",
    "the initial configuration consists of the liquid phase filling the inner space of nozzle with a parabolic interface drawn just outside the needle ( fig .",
    "[ fig:05 ] ) .",
    "all the remaining fluid nodes were prepared at gaseous density .",
    "the shan - chen constant for the fluid - fluid interaction is set to @xmath65 , while the constant for the fluid - wall interaction was set to @xmath66 only for the wall nodes located in the inner part of the nozzle , otherwise its value is zero . as in previous section",
    ", a suited quantity for the second fluid with constant @xmath45 was uniformly added to the system in order to obtain a system with net charge zero .    at the inlet and outlet nodes",
    "we define both the density and velocity of the first component .",
    "in particular at the outlet nodes ( on the right edge ) we set a density equal to @xmath64 and a velocity of @xmath67 l.u .. to better mimic the behavior of the jet inside the nozzle , the velocities applied at the inlet points are taken from a poiseuille profile velocity , while the inlet density is set to @xmath63 . in particular , at each time step we compute the mean velocity of the fluid inside the nozzle , we used this value to set up a poiseuille profile of a tube of length equal to @xmath68 l.u .. as a consequence , the velocities at the inlet nodes are not fixed but can change during the simulation according to the actual mean velocity measured inside the nozzle .    the internal electric field computed by the poisson solver ( see section 2 ) was computed on - the - fly during the simulation . in fig .",
    "[ fig:06 ] we report the self - consistent electric potential , and the direction of the electric field at simulation time zero .",
    "we now report the result of this configuration in presence of an external electric field equal to @xmath69 l.u .. in particular , we observe the formation of a liquid charged jet which is ejected from the nozzle . in fig .",
    "[ fig:07 ] we report a set of snapshots taken along the dynamics at several simulation time values .",
    "we observe the initial formation of the jet which shows a parabolic shape close to the nozzle .",
    "also , we find a thinning of the jet that appears in qualitative agreement with the characteristic behavior of electrospun filaments as observed experimentally .",
    "l.u . taken at timesteps 500 ( a ) , 1000 ( b ) , 1500 ( c ) , 2000 ( d ) , 2500 ( e ) , and 3000 ( f ) . ]",
    "after the jet touches the collector , the jet shape fluctuates around a mean profile , providing a stationary regime .",
    "in order to characterize such regime , we also report in fig .",
    "[ fig:08 ] the magnitude of the velocity field , and the lic of the velocity field .",
    "as expected , we observe a higher value of @xmath70 along the jet towards the collector , confirming what is generally observed in the experimental process .        to the best of our knowledge ,",
    "this is the first simulation of the electrospinning process within the lattice boltzmann methodology .",
    "summarising , we have developed a shan - chen model for charged multiphase fluids and provided exploratory simulations of various charged flows , namely : charged droplet at rest , charged droplet under a constant electric field and charged jet under electrospinning - like conditions .",
    "these preliminary results look promising , although more systematic numerical investigations , as well as theoretical analysis is warranted . work along these lines is currently underway .",
    "the research leading to these results has received funding from the european research council under the european union s seventh framework programme ( fp/2007 - 2013)/erc grant agreement n. 306357 ( nano - jets ) .",
    "darrell  h reneker , alexander  l yarin , hao fong , and sureeporn koombhongse . bending instability of electrically charged liquid jets of polymer solutions in electrospinning , j. appl .",
    "( 2000 ) , 87(9 ) , 4531 - 4547 .",
    "m. lauricella , g. pontrelli , i. coluzza , d. pisignano , s. succi , jetspin : a specific - purpose open - source software for simulations of nanofiber electrospinning , comput .",
    "( 2015 ) , 197 , 227 - 238 .          m. bernaschi , s. melchionna , s. succi , m. fyta , e. kaxiras , j. k. sircar , muphy : a parallel multi physics / scale code for high performance bio - fluidic simulations , comput . phys . commun .",
    "( 2009 ) , 180 , 1495 - 1502 .",
    "b. cabral , l. c. leedom , imaging vector fields using line integral convolution",
    ". proceedings of the 20th annual conference on computer graphics and interactive techniques .",
    "siggraph 1993 .",
    "anaheim , california .",
    "( 1993 ) , 263 - 270 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a shan - chen model for charged multiphase fluids and provide exploratory simulations of charged droplets at rest and under a constant electric field . </S>",
    "<S> we also provide preliminary results for charged jet formation under electrospinning - like conditions . </S>"
  ]
}