{
  "article_text": [
    "community is a fundamental element in social media for communication and collaboration . understanding community structure in social media is critical due to its broad applications such as friend recommendations , link predictions and collaborative filtering .",
    "however , there is no widely accepted definition of community in literature .",
    "informally , a community is a densely connected group of nodes that is sparsely connected to the rest of the network . in another word",
    ", a community should have more internal than external connections .",
    "community detection problem has been extensively studied .",
    "various algorithms have been proposed to minimize or maximize a goodness measurement , such as modularity , eigenvector , and conductance , etc . in general , the community detection algorithms can be categorized into disjoint and overlapping algorithms .",
    "comparison has been conducted to measure the performance of various community detection algorithms  @xcite .",
    "furthermore ,  @xcite validated the obtained communities with ground truth , which is the known community membership of users .",
    "however , previous research in community detection algorithm design and evaluation has ignored an important metric , size of the community . [ 1 ] suggests that the size of community with strong ties in social media should be limited to 150 due to the cognitive constraint and time constraint of human being in both traditional social network and internet - based social network , i.e. , social media .",
    "therefore , too large communities contain weak connections therefore not stable .",
    "in addition , too small communities do nt have practical value . in this paper",
    ", we use the term _ desirable community _ to refer to the communities of size in range [ 4 - 150 ] .",
    "we study community detection from the following perspectives : 1 ) size of the detected communities , 2 ) percentage of users assigned to a desirable community , called the coverage of the communities , 3 ) extended modularity , 4 ) triangle participation ratio ( tpr ) , and 5 ) the interest of users in the same community . for user interest",
    ", we collect the top 10 hashtags tweeted by a user and manually inspect the hashtags to decide the user interest .",
    "in addition , we propose a simple and intuitive community detection algorithm called clique augmentation algorithm ( caa ) which augment the cliques in the network into communities .",
    "we use growing threshold and overlapping threshold to control the size of the community and the amount of overlap among communities .",
    "we evaluated five widely used community detection algorithms on a twitter topology of over 318,233 users we collected in 2013 .",
    "experimental results show that the well - accepted infomap  @xcite outperforms newman s leading eigenvector  @xcite , fast greedy  @xcite , and multilevel  @xcite algorithms in terms of community size distribution , community coverage , and user interest .",
    "for example , infomap assigns @xmath0 of users in the network into meaningful communities of size in the range of 4 to 150 , while @xmath1 of the size of the communities generated by eigenvector algorithm falls in the range of 1 to 3 , which leads to less than @xmath2 of users are assigned to a meaningful community .",
    "we also observe that our proposed caa algorithm produces communities of desired size and coverage .",
    "for example , @xmath3 of users are assigned to meaningful communities by caa .",
    "in addition , caa outperforms all other algorithms in triangle participation ratio and demonstrates decent modularity .",
    "finally , we show that the users in caa communities show strongest similarity than communities obtained by all other algorithms .",
    "our contributions in this paper are the following :    1 .   we investigate an important but overlooked metric , the size of the community , to evaluate the quality of communities . to the best of our knowledge ,",
    "this is the first paper that carry out empirically study on the size of the community and the modularity of community with different sizes .",
    "we discover that existing algorithms which optimize modularity can be significantly improved if considering community size during the optimization process 3 .",
    "we investigate the community theme through hashtags 4 .",
    "we demonstrate that a heuristic clique augmentation algorithm can produce high quality overlapping communities , which are needed by social media    the remainder of this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section 2 describes related work in community detection algorithms and performance comparison .",
    "section 3 introduces the proposed clique augmentation algorithm .",
    "performance evaluation is given in section 4 and section 5 concludes this paper and outlines our future work .",
    "much work has been conducted in the area of community detection along with ways to determine the quality of the identified communities .",
    "one comprehensive survey of recent advances @xcite discusses a wide range of existing algorithms including traditional methods , modularity based methods , spectral algorithms , dynamic algorithms , and more .",
    "similarly , @xcite points out that it is important for the community detection algorithm to extract functional communities based on ground truth , where functional ground - truth community is described as a community in which an overall theme exists .",
    "another relevant paper @xcite discusses overlapping community detection algorithms along with various quality measurements .",
    "community detection often tries to optimize various metrics such as modularity as described by girvan and newman @xcite or conductance .",
    "the work in @xcite discusses many of the various objective functions currently in use and how they perform .",
    "there exist many community detection algorithms in literature .",
    "we can categorize them into disjoint algorithms and overlapping algorithms , based on whether the identified communities have overlap or not .",
    "infomap  @xcite stands out as the most popular and widely used disjoint algorithm .",
    "the infomap algorithm is based on random walks on networks combined with coding theory with the intent of understanding how information flows within a network .",
    "multilevel  @xcite is a heuristic based algorithm based on modularity optimization .",
    "multilevel first assigns every node to a separate community , then selects a node and checks the neighboring nodes attempting to group the neighboring node with the selected node into a community if the grouping results in an increase in modularity .",
    "newman s leading eigenvector @xcite works by moving the maximization process to the eigenspectrum to maximize modularity by using a matrix known as the modularity matrix .",
    "fast greedy @xcite is based upon modularity as well .",
    "it uses a greedy approach to optimize modularity . in the category of overlapping algorithm ,",
    "clique percolation method @xcite is the most prominent which merges two cliques into a community if they overlap more than a threshold .",
    "in this section we propose a clique based algorithm to find communities and we call it clique augmentation algorithm ( caa ) .",
    "caa is built on the following two principles : 1 ) users in a maximal clique belong to a stable community since a clique is densely connected internally ; 2 ) a neighboring node that is highly connected to a clique should be part of the community since it keeps the triadic closure property among all nodes in the community .    given a social network topology , caa algorithm discovers communities in the topology using the following steps : + step 1 : find all maximal cliques in the topology + step 2 : filter the overlapping cliques .",
    "we sort the cliques based on their size then use an _ overlapping threshold _ to control the amount of overlap between two cliques.the overlapping threshold is defined as the percentage of overlapping nodes in the smaller clique . for example , given two cliques @xmath4 and @xmath5 where @xmath4 is of size 10 , and @xmath5 is of size 5 .",
    "suppose the overlapping threshold is 0.7 .",
    "if @xmath5 only has 2 nodes overlapping with @xmath4 , we consider @xmath4 and @xmath5 as two independent cliques since @xmath6 which is 3.5 . if @xmath5 had 4 overlapping nodes with @xmath4 , we would discard @xmath5 since @xmath7 .",
    "+ step 3 : grows each clique into a community by adding new nodes in one by one .",
    "_ growing threshold _ is utilized for controlling the growth of each community .",
    "the growing threshold is defined as the ratio of the number of incoming edges from the new node to other nodes in the community over the size of a community .",
    "for example , if a community has size of 10 , and the growing threshold is set to 0.7 , then for a neighboring node to be added into the community , it must have at least 7 edges coming into the community .",
    "the algorithm checks the neighboring nodes for each node within the current community .",
    "this process is repeated for the updated community until no more nodes can be added .",
    "the growing threshold allows us to zoom into or out of the graph around the clique . + it is worth noting that caa takes a different approach than clique percolation method ( cpm ) where",
    "two adjacent cliques are merged into a community structure . in caa , instead of merging neighboring cliques , we simply grow the community structure by adding individual node to the community sequentially .",
    "caa has a few nice features : 1 ) it tends to be faster than cpm and manages to produce similar results .",
    "2 ) caa tries to capture the natural growth process of a community in the sense that if a user befriends with many users in a densely connected community , the user will be most likely grow as part of the community .",
    "3 ) experiment result shows caa tends to produce decent sized communities and users in same community share strong interest .",
    "we carry out the comparative research on a twitter arizona user follower topology that we collected in summer 2013 which contains @xmath8 arizona twitter users with @xmath9 directed edges , and we call it aztopology . an undirected graph is derived from aztopology by removing all non - mutual edges and the isolated nodes .",
    "we call it aztopologymutual .",
    "aztopologymutual network contains @xmath10 nodes and @xmath11 undirected edges .      in this section",
    ", we measure the impact of growing threshold and overlapping threshold on community size and the number of communities in order to give suggestions on the parameter selection for caa algorithm .",
    "first we look into the effect of growing threshold .",
    "we find all cliques of size 3 and larger in azmutualtopology and set overlapping threshold to 0 to find all non - overlapping cliques .",
    "we set the growing threshold to 0.5 , 0.7 , and 0.9 indicating a neighboring node can only be added to the community if it is connected to at least 50% , 70% , or 90% of nodes in the community .",
    "the result is plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : growingthreshold ] .",
    "x - axis is the community size range and y - axis is the number of communities whose size fall in the range . it can be seen that the cliques do not grow much with growing threshold @xmath12 since most communities are of size between 3 and 9 .",
    "with growing threshold set to @xmath13 , the number of communities with size in range [ 3 - 9 ] drops significantly , from around 11,000 to 5,000 and there are more communities in the range of [ 10 - 150 ] .",
    "therefore , we recommend to set the growing threshold to @xmath13 .",
    "another interesting observation is that there is no significant difference in the distribution of community size for growing threshold @xmath14 and @xmath13 .",
    "next we investigate the effect of overlapping threshold .",
    "we choose all cliques of size over 15 and increase the overlapping threshold from 0 to 1 .",
    "intuitively , by increasing the overlapping threshold , less cliques are filtered , therefore the number of communities increases . as can been seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : overlappingthreshold ] , where x - axis is the overlapping threshold value , y - axis is the number of cliques , the number of cliques increases significantly for overlapping threshold @xmath15 . in general , we suggest to choose overlapping threshold less than 0.6 to avoid having heavily overlapping communities .",
    "previous survey papers  @xcite and @xcite have carried out comparative research on community detection algorithms and proposed different evaluation metrics .",
    "however , they ignored an important factor , that is , the size of the communities .",
    "extremely large communities do not represent strong and stable communities .",
    "for this research we are interested in smaller communities where users are actually communicating and an overall theme amongst users exists . as described by dunbar @xcite , the dunbar number 150 applies to social media as well .",
    "this indicates that community size is an important factor and communities with more than 150 users are less desirable communities .",
    "on the other hand , communities of size 1 , 2 , and 3 are trivial .",
    "therefore , we propose to study communities of size in [ 4 - 150 ] and we call such communities desirable communities .",
    "users in such communities have stronger influence among each other and are less likely to leave the community .",
    "we propose to compare different community detection algorithms with the following criteria : community size , community coverage , extended modularity , triangle participation ratio , and the hash - tag similarity among users in the same community .",
    "we adopt the graph package for the implementation of newman s leading eigenvector  @xcite , infomap  @xcite , multilevel algorithm  @xcite , fast greedy optimization of modularity  @xcite , label propagation  @xcite , edge betweeness  @xcite , clique percolation method ( cpm )  @xcite , and implement our proposed caa algorithm .",
    "the growing threshold of caa is set to 0.7 and its overlapping threshold is set to 0 .",
    "the communities grow from cliques of size @xmath16 .",
    "each algorithm was given aztopologymutual graph as the input and five hours to complete .",
    "out of the eight algorithms , newman s leading eigenvector , infomap , multilevel , fast greedy and caa finished within five hours .",
    "so we only show the performance of these five algorithms .",
    "we run the algorithms on undirected graph to ensures fairness since not all algorithms support directed graph .",
    "only infomap , label propagation , edge betweenness , and caa can run on directed graph .      in this section",
    ", we present the number of communities and the size distribution of the communities .",
    "table  [ tab : totalcomm ] summarizes the number of communities and the size of the largest community revealed by each algorithm .",
    "modularity maximization algorithms such as multilevel , eigenvector , and fastgreedy all group users into large communities .",
    "for example , the larges community eigenvector produces has size of 136,403 , that is , over @xmath17 of all users are grouped into a large community .",
    "there is lack of strong connections among community users in such large community and we can hardly put this large community to practical use .",
    ".total number of detected communities and the size of largest community [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     additionally , we inspect large communities of size between 150 - 300 to check whether these communities make sense .",
    "we did this for the infomap method because this is one of the most popular community detection algorithms .",
    "table  [ tab : badcomm ] shows a sampling of three randomly selected communities . here",
    "the hashtags are sorted so that the top hashtag appears first .    by interpreting the meaning of these hashtags , where # wcw stands for women - crush wednesday",
    ", # mcm stands for man - crush monday , # smh stands for shake my head , and # oomf stands for one of my followers , we find that each individual communities in general does not make much sense .",
    "this is because the hashtags we found are everyday used terms on twitter . as such",
    ", the communities lack an overall theme .",
    "this is consistent to what we expected to see at larger community sizes .",
    "in this paper , we study the problem of evaluating community detection algorithm by introducing three new measurement , the community size , community coverage and user interest . we propose a simple clique based algorithm caa as baseline and compare the performance of four popular algorithms .",
    "caa discovers overlapping communities , therefore is a good fit for social media .",
    "our findings indicate that both infomap and caa are able to discover desirable communities which consist of users sharing similar interests , while many existing algorithms generate too small or too big communities .",
    "we plan to automate the user interest labeling by adopting topic modeling in our future work .",
    "we also plan to design new algorithms to maximize modularity while consider the size of the community .",
    "dunbar , r. i. m.  do online social media cut through the constraints that limit the size of offline social networks ?  in _ r. soc .",
    "royal society open science 3.1 ( 2016 ) : 150292 .",
    "_ ding , z. et al .  overlapping community detection based on network decomposition .  in _ sci . rep . 6 , 24115 ; doi : 10.1038/srep24115 ( 2016 ) .",
    "_ harenberg , steve , gonzalo bello , l. gjeltema , stephen ranshous , jitendra harlalka , ramona seay , kanchana padmanabhan , and nagiza samatova .",
    " community detection in large - scale networks : a survey and empirical evaluation .",
    " in _ wiley interdisciplinary reviews : computational statistics wires comput stat 6.6 ( 2014 ) : 426 - 39 . _",
    "yang , jaewon , and jure leskovec .",
    " defining and evaluating network communities based on ground - truth .  in _ 2012 ieee 12th international conference on data mining ( 2012 ) . _",
    "xie , jierui , stephen kelley , and boleslaw k. szymanski .",
    " overlapping community detection in networks .  in _ csur acm comput .",
    "acm computing surveys 45.4 ( 2013 ) : 1 - 35 .",
    "_ leskovec , jure , kevin j. lang , and michael mahoney .",
    " empirical comparison of algorithms for network community detection  in _ proceedings of the 19th international conference on world wide web - www 10 ( 2010 ) .",
    "_ fortunato , santo .",
    " community detection in graphs .",
    " in _ physics reports 486.3 - 5 ( 2010 ) : 75 - 174 . _ lazar , a. , d. abel , and t. vicsek .",
    " modularity measure of networks with overlapping communities .",
    " in _ epl ( europhysics letters ) europhys .",
    "lett . 90.1",
    "( 2010 ) : 18001 . _",
    "shen , huawei , xueqi cheng , kai cai , and mao - bin hu .",
    " detect overlapping and hierarchical community structure in networks .  in _ physica a : statistical mechanics and its applications 388.8 ( 2009 ) : 1706 - 712 .",
    "_ rosvall , m. , and c. t. bergstrom .",
    "`` maps of random walks on complex networks reveal community structure , '' in _ proceedings of the national academy of sciences 105.4 .",
    "blondel , vincent d. , jean - loup guillaume , renaud lambiotte , and etienne lefebvre . `` fast unfolding of communities in large networks . '' in",
    "_ j. stat .",
    "journal of statistical mechanics : theory and experiment .",
    "fortunato , s. , and m. barthelemy .",
    "`` resolution limit in community detection . '' in _ proceedings of the national academy of sciences 104.1 ( 2006 ) : 36 - 41 .",
    "_ raghavan , usha nandini , rka albert , and soundar kumara .  near linear time algorithm to detect community structures in large - scale networks .",
    " in _ physical review e phys .",
    "e 76.3 ( 2007 ) .",
    "_ java , akshay , xiaodan song , tim finin , and belle tseng .",
    " why we twitter .  in _ proceedings of the 9th webkdd and 1st sna - kdd 2007 workshop on web mining and social network analysis - webkdd / sna - kdd 07 ( 2007 ) . _",
    "newman , m. e. j.  finding community structure in networks using the eigenvectors of matrices .",
    " in _ physical review e phys .",
    "e 74.3 ( 2006 ) .",
    "_ palla , gergely , imre dernyi , ills farkas , and tams vicsek .",
    "`` uncovering the overlapping community structure of complex networks in nature and society . '' in _ nature 435.7043 ( 2005 ) : 814 - 18 . _ newman , m. e. j.  fast algorithm for detecting community structure in networks .  in _ physical review e phys .",
    "e 69.6 ( 2004 ) .",
    "_ newman , m.e.j . , girvan m.  finding and evaluating community structure in networks .  in _ phys .",
    "e. 69 , 026113 ( 2004 ) .",
    "_ a. clauset , m. e. j. newman , and c. moore  finding community structure in very large networks .",
    " in _ phys .",
    "e. 70 , 066111 ( 2004 ) .",
    "_ girvan , m. , and m. e. j. newman .",
    " community structure in social and biological networks .",
    " in _ proceedings of the national academy of sciences 99.12 ( 2002 ) : 7821 - 826 . _"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> understanding community structure in social media is critical due to its broad applications such as friend recommendations , link predictions and collaborative filtering . </S>",
    "<S> however , there is no widely accepted definition of community in literature . </S>",
    "<S> existing work use structure related metrics such as modularity and function related metrics such as ground truth to measure the performance of community detection algorithms , while ignoring an important metric , size of the community . </S>",
    "<S> @xcite suggests that the size of community with strong ties in social media should be limited to 150 . as we discovered in this paper , the majority of the communities obtained by many popular community detection algorithms are either very small or very large . </S>",
    "<S> too small communities do nt have practical value and too large communities contain weak connections therefore not stable . in this paper , we compare various community detection algorithms considering the following metrics : size of the communities , coverage of the communities , extended modularity , triangle participation ratio , and user interest in the same community . </S>",
    "<S> we also propose a simple clique based algorithm for community detection as a baseline for the comparison . </S>",
    "<S> experimental results show that both our proposed algorithm and the well - accepted disjoint algorithm infomap perform well in all the metrics . </S>"
  ]
}