{
  "article_text": [
    "mrk231 , at a redshift of @xmath4 , is a nearby radio quiet quasar ( rqq ) with a relativistic jet @xcite .",
    "the jet is extremely powerful for a rqq during flare states with a kinetic luminosity estimated to be @xmath5 ergs  @xmath6 for previous flares .",
    "consequently , we have been monitoring the radio behavior at @xmath7  ghz for the last 7 years . since 2011",
    ", we have detected 3 large blazar - like flares ( see @xcite ) with flux densities @xmath8  mjy at @xmath7  ghz .",
    "the last of these major flares initiated a target of opportunity four - epoch vlba ( very long baseline array ) observation .",
    "we were also afforded director s discretionary time for three observations with the nustar x - ray telescope and two observations with the xmm x - ray telescope .",
    "mrk231 is a unique laboratory for studying the multiple aspects that are associated with the quasar phenomenon .",
    "it is one of a small number of rqqs that have clearly exhibited episodes of relativistic jet formation @xcite .",
    "it also supports broad absorption line ( bal ) winds .",
    "we use the original definition of bal quasars ( balqsos ) as quasars with uv absorbing gas that is blue shifted at least 5,000 km / s relative to the qso rest frame and displaying a spread in velocity of at least 2,000  km  s@xmath9 , @xcite .",
    "this definition excludes the so - called  mini - balqsos , \" with the balnicity index = 0 @xcite .",
    "this definition is preferred here since mini - balqsos tend to resemble non - balqsos more than balqsos in many spectral and broadband properties @xcite .",
    "a nonzero balnicity index is extraordinary considering that the existence of large scale jets and bal winds are almost mutually exclusive .",
    "the propensity for suppressed large scale emission increases strongly with balnicity index @xcite .",
    "thus , episodes of relativistic jet production in mrk231 allow us to explore the interplay between bal winds and jets .",
    "mrk231 is exceptional in that it tends to vacillate between radio quiet and radio loud behaviors .",
    "in particular , in this study we find states of weak jet activity have uv characteristics that differ from those of the states of high jet activity .",
    "based on limited data , the weak jet state shows evidence of high ionization bal winds , as noted above , a property associated with radio quiet quasars . in the states of high jet activity",
    ", the evidence of a high ionization bal wind disappears and the spectral energy distribution steepens beyond its peak in the far uv , a property common to radio loud quasars @xcite .",
    "this transition between high jet activity and low jet activity occurs on very short time scales in some galactic black holes @xcite .",
    "consequently , these stellar mass objects form the basis of our physical understanding of the state change ( both back and forth ) between a jetted black hole accretion system to a non - jetted black hole accretion system .",
    "it is not clear that the trends observed in galactic black holes extrapolate many orders of magnitude in both time and space to quasars .",
    "this was the motivation for our previous high frequency ( 15  ghz , 22  ghz and 43  ghz ) vlba observations @xcite .",
    "our previous vlba observation detected a strong 22  ghz flare that emerged from the core between epochs 2006.07 and 2006.32 ( @xmath10 increase in less than 3 months ) .",
    "however , we learned that the putative ejecta faded very rapidly and required both high resolution ( 43  ghz ) and high sensitivity .",
    "thus , we recognised the need to observe a strong flare that was still growing and to improve the sensitivity by choosing a higher data sampling rate , 2 gbps ( as opposed to the 256 mbps that was previously available ) .",
    "this observation challenged the limits of the vlba and our efforts were designed to maximize the likelihood of successful phase - referencing and the subsequent self - calibration of the weak target source . in order to determine the initiation of a target of opportunity ( too ) for our vlba observations , we began monitoring mrk231 at 22  ghz in 2009 , switching to 17.6  ghz in 2012 .",
    "the details of our monitoring program and the discovery of a large flare were previously reported @xcite .",
    "the paper is organized as follows .",
    "section  2 describes the observational details of our monitoring . in section 3",
    ", we describe the vlba observations that were triggered on 2015 march 31 . there were four observations at 8.4 , 15.2 , 22.2 and 43  ghz that were spread out over 15 weeks . in section  4 , we describe hubble space telescope ( hst ) observations of the far uv spectrum of mrk231 that serendipitously align with three epochs of our radio monitoring . in section 5",
    ", we discuss the x - ray telescope observations that were granted after our vlba too , three nustar observations and two xmm observations . throughout this paper , we adopt the following cosmological parameters : @xmath11=71 km s@xmath9 mpc@xmath9 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 .",
    "@xcite reported the methods of our radio monitoring program . in summary ,",
    "the program utilized long term monitoring with the vla ( very large array ) and evla ( expanded very large array ) at 22  ghz from 2009 to 2012 and from 2013 to 2015 ami ( arcminute microkelvin imager ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) at 13.5  18  ghz . the long term monitoring data from @xcite are plotted in the top frame of figure 1 .",
    "this light curve incorporates historical data both from the literature @xcite and from the vla public archive ( project codes ab783 , an030 , au015 ) .",
    "we have superimposed the times of relevant observations that we will reference in the following .",
    "the notable features of the historical light curve are the major flare of 2013 that was monitored with ami and analyzed previously @xcite .",
    "it was shown that this is similar to blazar flares ( rise time , decay and relative magnitude ) , but on a smaller scale .",
    "the unexpected steady rise of flux failed to meet our trigger criteria ( which were then revised ) and we missed this opportunity to study a flare in progress .",
    "the other important feature is the hst faint object spectrograph ( fos ) observation with the g160l grating on 1996",
    "november 21 , just 14 days before the historically low vla flux density measurement @xcite .",
    "this fortuitous circumstance will form an important part of our analysis in section  4 .",
    "another fortuitous circumstance is the hst cosmic origins spectrograph ( cos ) observation with the g130 m grating on 2011 october 15 reported in @xcite that occurred during a 22  ghz flare .",
    "the bottom frame of figure 1 is the 17.6  ghz ( the highest useable frequency ) light curve from our more recent ami monitoring .",
    "the 2013 flare is on the left hand side .",
    "the outlier data points with large error bars during the flare decay are affected by poor weather ( precipitation ) .",
    "we were unable to correct for the weather and they should not be considered as evidence of rapid flux changes .",
    "the 2015 flare appears on the right hand side of the figure .",
    "the vlba observations ( and subsequent coordinated x - ray observations ) were triggered on 2015 march 31 .",
    "the flare was still rising and approaching the peak flux density , so the timing was ideal for our program ",
    "the maximum brightness for study during the flare rise .",
    "knowing that the detected fluxes were going to be small at the crucial frequency of 43  ghz , achieving maximum brightness was essential to the success of the observation .",
    "the other interesting feature of the light curve is timing of the hst cos observation with the g140l grating on 2014 december 13 .",
    "the flare was already beginning at this time at 17.6  ghz , and as discussed in the next two sections , due to synchrotron self absorption ( ssa ) optical depth affects the 43  ghz flare began at least a few days to weeks earlier .",
    "again , this is fortuitous timing of the hst observation .",
    "all three of the far uv hst observations serendipitously occurred during times of radio monitoring .",
    "the vlba project , br205 , successfully acquired data from all ten stations during each of the four epochs of observation .",
    "the data were correlated on the vlba correlator @xcite and calibrated with nrao s astronomical imaging processing system using the parseltongue interface @xcite .",
    "our observations were phase - referenced to j1302 + 5748 ( @xmath14 from mrk231 ) at 8.4 , 15 , 22 , and 43  ghz , following the strategies described in @xcite for project bp124 . j1311 + 5513 ( @xmath15  mjy of unresolved flux density at 43  ghz )",
    "was used as a secondary calibrator to check the quality of the phase referencing . for each epoch of our vlba monitoring ,",
    "two 4-hour observations with almost continuous recording at 2  gbps ( 256  mhz bandwidth , dual polarizations ) were acquired in order to achieve the snr * ( signal to noise ratio ) * required to resolve the putative sub - components of the 43  ghz core and to maximize the likelihood of successful phase - referencing and the subsequent self - calibration of the weak target source , mrk231 .",
    "for scheduling purposes , the 4 hour blocks were split into two consecutive days except for the last epoch in which both blocks occurred in a continuous time interval . after calibration overhead",
    ", this resulted in 2.6  hours on mrk231 per epoch , that was split as 0.25 , 0.35 , 0.8 , and 1.2 hours at frequencies of 8 , 15 , 22 , and 43  ghz , respectively .",
    "all 4 stokes parameters were correlated and we were able to achieve naturally weighted image rms values in stokes i of approximately 50 , 100 , 50 , and 70  @xmath16jy at 8.4 , 15 , 22 , and 43  ghz respectively .",
    "the observations were generally successful except for one major unexpected technical issue . due to scheduling constraints",
    ", we could not be granted a continuous 8  hour observation .",
    "the compromise of splitting the observation into 4  hour increments on consecutive days proved deleterious in epochs 2 and 3 as the two segments were observed at almost the same lst * ( local sidereal time)*. the resulting beam was poorly shaped due to insufficient @xmath17 coverage and the resolution was inadequate for resolving structures along the jet .",
    "we analyze the resulting data even though this circumstance made it impossible to directly monitor motion along the jet ( a primary objective of the program ) .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we then proceed by fitting all available nustar data in the highest signal - to - noise band , namely the 3  30 kev one .",
    "mrk231 is unresolved by the nustar beam , thus star formation and high mass x - ray binary emission are responsible for a non - negligible fraction of the total x - ray emission detected by nustar @xcite .",
    "we do not want to speculate on complicated models with many uncertainties and assumptions and we use here some very simple spectral models .",
    "the baseline model is that of a simple power law continuum absorbed by a galactic column density fixed at @xmath18  @xmath19 , @xcite ) plus an extra absorbing column of neutral gas at the redshift of the source , and a gaussian emission line with @xmath20 fixed to @xmath21  ev ( unresolved at the resolution of the nustar a and b detectors ) to reproduce the fe k emission line ( the line energy is restricted between 6.4  kev and 6.97  kev in the rest - frame ) . all our spectral analysis is first carried out considering the fpm a and b nustar detectors separately , including a cross - normalization constant between the two .",
    "we then produce co - added spectra ( a+b ) for all observations , and we re - fit the co - added spectra with the same spectral model . as we do not find any statistically significant difference in any of the spectral parameters we derive ,",
    "we proceed by reporting results for the co - added a+b spectra .",
    "all of the nustar observations except for the low radio state nustar 1 observation are well fitted by the simple baseline model with @xmath22 of the order of unity .",
    "nustar 1 represents the exception , and the baseline model provides a poor fit to the data with @xmath23 for 56 degrees of freedom ( dof ) .",
    "the second worse fit is obtained for nustar 4 ( as expected given that this is the observation that mostly resembles nustar 1 , see figure  [ nustarcomp ] ) where we have @xmath24 for 40 dof .",
    "our results are reported in table  [ nustarbaseline ] , and the peculiar nustar 1 spectrum and best - fitting baseline model are shown in the left panel of figure  [ nustar1 ] .",
    "it is interesting to note that the only data set that is not well described by the baseline model ( the nustar 1 low radio state spectrum in 2012 ) was used , together with a simultaneous and higher quality chandra x - ray spectrum ( and to the nustar 2 data ) to argue that an ultra - fast wind is present in mrk231 .",
    "the evidence for such wind was detected in x - ray absorption from 6.5 kev to 10 kev @xcite .",
    "this appears to be a likely explanation for the deficit of x - ray photons in the 6.5 - 10  kev band during the nustar 1 observation ( see the left panel of figure  [ nustar1 ] ) although our analysis seems to exclude that the nustar 2 observation ( high radio state ) can be interpreted in a similar way .",
    "this is unlikely to represent a problem for the claimed wind detection , as the overall statistical result is dominated by the chandra spectrum , simultaneous with nustar 1 . as mentioned , from a radio point of view , the nustar 1 and chandra observations were performed during a low radio state , while nustar 2 was already in a high radio state . as the nustar 2 spectrum",
    "is well described by the baseline model and does not exhibit signs for a deficit of photons in the interesting band , it is tempting to associate the presence of the wind with low radio states .    in order to see whether the peculiarity of the nustar 1 spectrum is indeed well described by an x - ray wind , we add a further ionized absorber to our spectral model for the nustar 1 observation .",
    "the additional ionized absorber ( modelled via the photoionization code phase , see @xcite ) depends on the absorber column density , ionization , and outflow velocity as well as on the gas turbulent velocity .",
    "the latter parameter is however fixed to an intermediate value of @xmath25  km  s@xmath9 as the poor spectral resolution of the nustar data are not sufficient to constrain it .",
    "the ionized absorber provides a statistical improvement of the fit for the nustar 1 data with @xmath26 for 53 degrees of freedom ( dof ) , to be compared with @xmath27 for 56 dof of the baseline model , i.e. the ionized absorber is detected at the 99.4 per cent confidence level according to a simple f - test .",
    "the addition of the ionized absorber produces a slightly steeper photon index for the nustar 1 spectrum , which is more in line with that from all others ( @xmath28 versus @xmath29 with the baseline model ) .",
    "all other parameters are the same , within the errors , as those obtained with the baseline model . from our best - fitting model",
    ", we infer that the ionized absorber has a column density of @xmath30  @xmath19 with ionization parameter @xmath31 , and that the gas is outflowing from the system at high velocity , namely v@xmath32  km  s@xmath9 .",
    "the nustar 1 spectrum and best - fitting model are shown in the right panel of figure  [ nustar1 ] .",
    "we note that the wind parameters that we derive from the nustar 1 data are all consistent within the errors with those reported by other authors who made use of a simultaneous chandra observation as well @xcite .",
    "this is reassuring in terms of the reality of the wind detection in the nustar 1 observation .",
    "we then perform similar fits including a putative ionized outflow to all other nustar observations , but we do not find any statistical evidence for the presence of such component in any of the high radio state nustar observations ( nustar 25 ) .",
    "this is true also for the nustar 4 observation despite the fact that its spectral shape appears to be the most similar to nustar 1 ( see figure  [ nustarcomp ] ) , and we only obtain an improvement of @xmath33 for 3 dof for the nustar 4 observation when a wind model is included .",
    "obviously , this does not mean that the wind is absent during the nustar 25 observations , but only that its presence is not required by the data ( using our specific wind model ) .",
    "the only significant detection is thus obtained during the only low radio flux state observation nustar 1 where it explains well the observed deficit of soft x - ray photons below 12  kev . if the flux deficit during the radio weak state is indeed due to an x - ray absorbing wind then this is perhaps suggestive of a phenomenon known to occur in galactic black hole accreting systems , where jet production is seen to suppress winds of x - ray absorbing gas @xcite .",
    "it would also provide an interesting analogy to the suppression of bal winds in radio loud states noted for mrk231 in the last section .",
    "mrk231 has been observed three times with xmm - newton , twice in this observing program and once in 2001 . as can be seen from the light curve in figure 1 ,",
    "the radio state is unknown during the 2001 xmm - newton observation @xcite .",
    "so we have two observations during active jet states and one during an unknown epoch of jet activity .",
    "figure 16 shows that there is no measurable difference between the three spectra obtained with xmm - newton .",
    "even though the 2015 xmm - newton spectra are redundant with the 2001 spectrum , we proceed with a simple spectral analysis of these data .",
    "xmm - newton and nustar observed mrk231 simultaneously on 2015 may 28 .",
    "we then start our analysis with this data set , performing simultaneous fits to the low and high energy data from the two missions , to gain insights on the overall broadband spectrum of mrk231 .",
    "a constant is introduced to account for any cross - calibration issue between the two missions .",
    "the xmm - newton epic - pn data ( xmm 3 ) are considered in the 0.512  kev band , while the nustar 5 data ( a+b detectors ) are used in the 330  kev band as above .",
    "the soft x - ray emission below @xmath3  kev is dominated by extended emission ( star - formation , photo - ionized gas , etc . ) and it can be successfully modeled by means of a two - temperature thermal plasma model plus a power law component representing scattered emission .",
    "these two components are thought to originate far away from the central engine , and are thus only absorbed by the galactic column .",
    "as for the @xmath34  kev spectrum , several models are possible ( see e.g. @xcite ) and we start here from the simplest possible one , namely an extra absorption component at the redshift of mrk231 acting on a power law continuum plus fe line ( i.e. the same baseline model that was applied to the nustar data in the previous subsection ) .    this first attempt provides a good statistical result with @xmath35 for 134 dof .",
    "the temperature of the hot plasmas is @xmath36  kev and @xmath37  kev , and this component contributes to the soft 0.52  kev band with a total luminosity of @xmath38  ergs  @xmath6 .",
    "the soft ( scattered ) power law has a loosely constrained photon index @xmath39 and contributes to the 0.52  kev luminosity with an additional @xmath40  ergs  @xmath6 . as for the high - energy emission ,",
    "the x - ray nuclear continuum is well described by a power law with @xmath41 with an intrinsic 210  kev ( 1030  kev ) luminosity of @xmath42  ergs  @xmath6 ( @xmath43  ergs  @xmath6 ) .",
    "if the spectral model is extrapolated down to 0.5  kev , the total 0.530  kev intrinsic luminosity of the agn turns out to be @xmath44  ergs  @xmath6 .",
    "however , as the intrinsic continuum is in fact detected only above a few kev due to intervening absorption , we caution that this value should be treated with caution as we ignore the true agn spectrum in the 0.52  kev band ( where standard agn often exhibit a soft x - ray excess ) .",
    "the neutral absorber has a column density of @xmath45  @xmath19 , consistent with that derived from the nustar 5 data alone ( @xmath46  @xmath19 ) .",
    "we detect an fe emission line at @xmath47  kev with ew@xmath48  ev .",
    "an emission feature appears to be present around 5.7  kev in the xmm 3 and , with less contrast , nustar 5 spectra .",
    "the addition of a further emission line with @xmath20 fixed at 10  ev results in a statistical significant improvement of @xmath49 for 2 dof for a line energy of @xmath50  kev and an equivalent width of @xmath51  ev .",
    "no significant absorption feature that may indicate the presence of an ionized wind is seen in the xmm 3 data , as already noted in the analysis of the nustar 5 data alone .",
    "[ xmmcomp ]    the previous xmm 2 observation that took place on 2015 april 25 can be described with a very similar model .",
    "the only noticeable difference is that the fe band appears to be simpler than on may 28 .",
    "a simple fe emission line at @xmath52  kev with equivalent width of @xmath53  ev describes well all the emission , casting some doubts on the reality of the @xmath54  kev emission line detected on may 28 .",
    "the intrinsic continuum photon index is very loosely constrained by the xmm - newton data alone ( @xmath55 ) and it is absorbed by a column density of @xmath56  @xmath19 .",
    "the resulting best - fitting statistics is @xmath57 for 87 dof , and no features indicate the presence of a further ionized absorber during the xmm 2 observation .",
    "the x - ray spectrum of mrk231 has been very constant over all epochs .",
    "because of x - ray absorption of the nuclear emission , the very soft x - ray emission below a few kev is dominated by extended components ( star - forming regions , scattering , re - emission by photoionized gas , etc . ) and the stability of the x - ray emission is expected . on the other hand , the remarkably constant x - ray flux ( and spectral shape ) above 10  kev indicates that the intrinsic nuclear emission is not varying on timescales of years .",
    "it is curious how the far uv and x - ray spectra tend to be very stable , quite unusual for a broad line active galactic nucleus .",
    "the only epoch where an elevated flux density above 10  kev was seen was with suzaku @xcite , where it was explained as a transient uncovering of the x - ray nucleus ( no radio sampling is available around the suzaku epoch ) .    from a radio point of view , besides the xmm 1 observation that was performed during an unknown radio state , the nustar 1 pointing is the only one that is performed during a low radio flux state , while all others ( nustar 25 and xmm 23 ) are obtained during high radio flux states .",
    "it is interesting to note that the nustar 1 spectrum is precisely the only one that can not be well described by the simple spectral model used for all other observations .",
    "the nustar 1 spectrum presents a deficit of relatively soft x - ray photons ( mostly in the 6.510  kev band ) , while it is indistinguishable from all others at higher energies , where the intrinsic nuclear emission dominates .",
    "this peculiar spectral shape is best explained by the addition of a further x - ray absorption component in the form of a fast ionized wind with outflow velocity @xmath58  km  s@xmath9 .",
    "such a wind solution is not statistically required by the data in any of the high radio state observations .",
    "the presence of an ultra - fast x - ray wind in august 2012 was claimed previously by others who made additional use of higher quality chandra data , simultaneous with nustar 1 @xcite .",
    "the wind parameters that we derive from the nustar 1 data alone are in excellent agreement with those previously derived , which indicates that our detection and modeling are robust .",
    "there being only one low radio state data point , we do not know if the presence of the wind is related to suppressed jet emission , but it is suggestive to note that our findings are in line with the phenomenology of galactic black hole binaries where winds and jets seem to be mutually exclusive . if the x - ray wind was indeed present ( or stronger ) only during periods of suppressed jet activity , it would also link well with the suppression of bal winds during high radio flux states , as noted in the previous section .",
    "in this article we used our long term radio monitoring at high frequency and a target of opportunity monitoring of a strong radio flare with vlba , _ xmm - newton _ and _ nustar _ in order to probe the radio jet - accretion disk connection in mrk231 .      in spite of some information loss due to a poor beam shape in two of our epochs",
    ", we were able to determine a few interesting constraints on the jet - disk connection in this quasar .    1 .",
    "as discussed in section 3 , two new ejected components in mrk231 were detected for the first time ( see figures 4 and 7 ) 2 .   in section 3.2 , we were able to constrain the apparent speed of one of these ejections @xmath59c .",
    "3 .   in section 3.3 , we showed in figure 8 that the stationary secondary component ( the putative radio lobe ) doubled in brightness in 9 years .",
    "4 .   in section 4",
    ", we determined that the far uv emission beyond the peak of the far uv sed was depressed in the two active jet states compared to the one quiescent jet state monitored with hst ( see figure 12 and table 2 ) .",
    "5 .   in section 4",
    ", we demonstrated that the degree of civ broad line absorption in the two active jet states is suppressed compared to the one quiescent jet state monitored with hst ( see figure 12 and table 2 ) .",
    "6 .   in section 5",
    ", we found that the 3  12 kev flux is elevated during a state of high radio jet activity relative to the one 3  12 kev flux measurement during the only x - ray observation known to occur in a quiescent radio state ( see figure 14 ) .",
    "the primary result of this vlbi observation program was the detection of ejected components and estimating the apparent velocity , @xmath60c .",
    "this allows us to attain new kinematic insight into the jet .",
    "previously , using the methods of @xcite , the time variability brightness temperature is @xmath61 k @xcite . in order to avoid the inverse compton catastrophe",
    ", the analysis in @xcite indicates that the line of sight to the jet is less than @xmath62 .",
    "this equates to a time variability factor @xmath63 for an optically thick , unresolved core @xcite .",
    "the doppler factor , @xmath64 , is given in terms of @xmath65 , the lorentz factor of the outflow ; @xmath66 , the three velocity of the outflow and the angle of propagation to the line of sight , @xmath67 ; @xmath68 $ ] @xcite .",
    "figure 17 combines our previous findings with the new estimate of the component apparent velocity , @xmath69 .",
    "the figure plots @xmath70 as a function of @xmath64 .",
    "the theoretical plots are made for various lines of sight ( los ) that are allowed kinematically .",
    "we now have two constraints on @xmath64 and @xmath70 if we assume a steady jet structure over time .",
    "the intersection of the two lower bounds is shaded in grey .",
    "the arrows indicate the direction of increasing @xmath65 on each curve .",
    "it is interesting that the new constraint does not significantly improve the previous limit on the los , @xmath71 .",
    "the estimate of @xmath70 essentially indicates consistency with the time variability doppler factor analysis .",
    "combining the two conditions in figure 17 does indicate that @xmath72 which is a new constraint on the jet kinematics .",
    "this highly relativistic motion is consistent with a point of jet origin deep within the gravitational potential well , possibly the innermost regions of the accretion disk .    in principle",
    ", polarimetry can provide useful diagnostics of jet activity .",
    "unfortunately , in @xcite , it was found that there was no detectable polarized flux in our vlba observations .",
    "presumably , the emission is depolarized by a large scattering column density during the radiative transfer through the enveloping dense nuclear environment . consequently , the 2015 observations were not a polarization experiment , there was no polarization calibrator in order to maximize the amount of time on the source .",
    "even so , we looked for evidence of polarization and could not find any .",
    "since , the relativistic jet has a plausible origin in the inner accretion disk there is a straightforward interpretation of point 4 , above .",
    "a deficit of far uv emission in active jet states suggests a connection to the  euv deficit \" of radio loud quasars : radio loud quasars show a tendency to have a deficit of extreme ultraviolet ( euv ) flux shortward of the peak of the sed around @xmath73 relative to the euv flux levels found in radio quiet quasars @xcite .",
    "the magnitude of the deficit increases with the strength of the jet @xcite .",
    "the analogy is not direct because the sed of mrk231 is extremely unusual and not well understood , especially in the uv @xcite .",
    "the continuum is likely observed through multiple ",
    "exotic \" absorbing media that differ from the galactic interstellar medium @xcite .",
    "the far uv flux is highly depressed in overall magnitude , yet the sed is very flat from @xmath74 to @xmath75 , not typical of absorption by a dusty interstellar medium ( see figure 12 ) .",
    "however , we can draw one commonality with the euv deficit of radio loud quasars , the flux is lower at wavelengths shortward of the far uv peak of the sed when there is an active jet as compared to the flux level when the jet is in a quiescent state",
    ". it might be that the disk in mrk231 is very cool as a consequence of energy losses due to winds driven by the continuum that is emitted from the inner disk @xcite .",
    "regardless of the reason for the low frequency of the sed turnover , the highest frequency optically thick thermal emission should represent emission from the innermost accretion disk .",
    "this emission should be detected near or just blueward of the far uv break in the sed @xcite .",
    "figure 12 seems to indicate that the optically thick thermal emission from the innermost accretion disk ( i.e. , emission just shortward of the peak of the sed ) is lower when there is a radio jet similar to the  euv deficit \" in radio loud quasars . in particular , the  euv deficit in radio loud quasars \" has been shown to be consistent with the predicted trends of a simple magnetically arrested accretion scenario in which islands of large scale vertical magnetic flux thread the innermost accretion flow in radio loud quasars .",
    "this distribution of flux is located in the base of the relativistic jet and at the same time displace the optically thick gas responsible for the thermal emission from the innermost accretion disk , thereby reducing the flux beyond the peak of the sed relative to that of radio quiet quasars @xcite . applying this dynamic to mrk  231",
    ", the displaced far uv emitting gas equates to a diminished far uv luminosity and the increased vertical flux creates a stronger jet .",
    "this creates an inverse correlation between the far uv luminosity and jet power .",
    "the other possibly very interesting finding is point 5 , above .",
    "recall that the existence of large scale jets and bal winds are almost mutually exclusive .",
    "the propensity for suppressed large scale emission increases strongly with balnicity index @xcite .",
    "figure 12 and table 2 , indicate that mrk231 might be a unique source in which we can see the relativistic jet and high ionization bal wind anti - correlation occurring in real time .",
    "this wind suppression is naturally explained by models in which the bal wind is launched from the innermost regions of the accretion flow , including the outer boundary of the central accretion vortex @xcite . in these models ,",
    "the propensity of a quasar accretion flow to launch either a bal wind or a radio jet is determined by the ratio of radiation pressure to magnetic pressure of the large scale magnetic field in the central vortex and the inner edge of the accretion disk .",
    "thus , points 4 and 5 are consistent if the jet and bal wind are both launched from the inner accretion disk and accretion vortex . in mrk231 , the ratio of magnetic pressure from magnetic islands and thermal radiation pressure from optically thick gas vacillates .",
    "sometimes the magnetic islands are plentiful and a modest relativistic jet is launched ( suppressing the bal wind and far uv ) and at other times the magnetic islands have diffused away and the spectrum of mrk231 hardens in the far uv and a high ionization wind is launched .",
    "one might wonder how the increased x - ray flux during the state of high jet activity in point 6 is consistent with these other two findings .",
    "the most direct interpretation is that the x - ray excess in the high radio state is a consequence of inverse compton emission from the same electrons that produce the synchrotron emission in the jet",
    ". the spectral index would be slightly steeper than that of the x - ray power law of the coronal x - rays .",
    "considering the superluminal speed in point 2 , above , one would expect significant doppler enhancement of a very weak x - ray source and the resultant flux is likely highly variable .",
    "the other possibility is that the reduced x - ray flux in the radio low states is a result of an x - ray absorbing wind @xcite .",
    "when the jet is active , the dynamics of this x - ray wind launching mechanism ( x - ray radiation pressure from the corona ) is disrupted by the magnetic islands .",
    "the data are not sufficient to distinguish between the two possibilities .",
    "however , we show in section 5 , that the difference in the nustar spectrum during the low radio state compared to the high radio states is well described by the presence of absorption in a photo - ionized wind .",
    "this is the more intriguing of the two possibilities since it suggests that the existence of a strong jet suppresses both the uv absorbing and the x - ray absorbing winds .",
    "the latter is a phenomenon known to occur in galactic black hole accreting systems , where jet production is seen to suppress x - ray winds @xcite .",
    "this could be the first evidence of a direct analogy between the jet - wind connection in supermassive black holes and stellar mass black holes .",
    "based on these three important inferences of our study , it seems that obtaining one or two hst cos g140l observations in a state of low jet activity would verify if there is a trend for far uv suppression and if the civ broad absorption trough returns .",
    "also , based on figure 14 , it would be interesting to monitor mrk  231 in a weak jet state in order to see if the x - ray emission decreases . a combined nustar and",
    "xmm - newton ( or chandra ) observation could verify if the x - ray driven wind that was claimed in this low state in @xcite returns .",
    "furthermore , longer x - ray observations are required to constrain the x - ray driven wind in both the high and low radio sates .",
    "if vlba observations are obtained during another radio flare , it is important to stress the requirement that the u - v coverage not be compromised by splitting the observation for scheduling purposes .",
    "if the observations are split , care must be taken to ensure that two unique lst ranges are attained on the two consecutive days .",
    "it is far better to delay the observation a week or two than compromise the u - v coverage . with this constraint",
    ", a multi - epoch campaign should see an ejected component evolve in space and time .",
    "a hst cos g140l observation in the the rising high flare state has not been obtained and it would be of interest to see if the spectrum is the same as other times during the jet formation .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained with nustar , a project led by caltech , funded by nasa and managed by nasa / jpl , and has utilized the nustardas software package , jointly developed by the asdc ( italy ) and caltech ( usa ) .",
    "we also made use of data obtained with xmm - newton , an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states .",
    "this work made use of director s discretionary time on both nustar and xmm - newton for which we thank fiona harrison and norbert schartel for approving , as well as the nustar and xmm - newton soc for implementing and coordinating the observations .",
    "we would like to thank s. veilleux and m. melendez for sharing their g130 m data .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system bibliographic services .",
    "this work made use of the swinburne university of technology software correlator , developed as part of the australian major national research facilities programme and operated under licence .",
    "r. et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 538 , 72 becker . ,",
    "r. et al .",
    "2000 , apjs , 135 , 227 blandford , r. and knigl , a. 1979 , apj 232 34 blundell , k. , beasley , a. , bicknell , g. 2003 , apjl , 591 , 103 braito , v. et al 2004 , a & a 420 79 briggs , d. , 1995 , phd thesis , nrao bruni , g. et al .  2013 a&a 554 94",
    "brunthaler , a. et al .",
    "2000 , a&a , 357 , l45 deller , a. et al .",
    "2011 , pasp , 123 , 275 edelson , r. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 651 evans , i. and koratkar 2004 , apjs 150 73 feruglio , c. ; fiore , f. ; carniani , s. et al .",
    "2015 a & a , 583 99 gallagher , s. et al .",
    "2002 apj , 569 655 ghosh , k. and punsly , b. 2007 apjl 661 139 ginzburg , v. and syrovatskii , s. 1969 , annu .",
    "astrophys . 7",
    "375 hayashi , t. , doi , a. , nagai , h. 2013 apj 772 4 kettenis ,  m. , van langevelde ,  h.  j. , reynolds ,  c. & cotton ,  b. , 2006 , astron .",
    "data anal .",
    "software syst .",
    "xv , 351 , 497    kalberla , p. , ; burton , w. , hartmann , d. et al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 440 , 775 klein - wolt , m. et al . , 2002 ,",
    "mnras 331 745 knigge , c. , scaringi , s. , goad , m. , cottis , c. 2008 mnras 386 1426 krongold , y. , nicastro , f. , brickhouse , n. s. , elvis , m , liedahl , d. , mathur , s. 2003 apj , 597 , 832 laor , a. , davis , s. 2014 apj 428 3024 lind , k. , blandford , r. 1985 , apj 295 358 lipari , s. , colina , l. , macchetto , f. 1994 , apj 427 174 macleod , c. 2012 , apj 753 , 106 mccutcheon , w. , gregory , p. 1978 , aj , 83 , 566 moffet , a. 1975 in _ stars and stellar systems , ix : galaxies and the universe _ , eds .",
    "a. sandage , m. sandage & j. kristan ( chicago university press , chicago ) , 211 .",
    "neilsen , j. and lee , j. 20o9 , nature , 458 , 481 piconcelli , e. , miniutti , g. , ranalli , p. et al .",
    "2013 , mnras , 428 .",
    "1185 prat , l. , rodriguez , j , and pooley , g. 2010 , apj 717 1222 punsly , b. 1999a , apj 527 609 punsly , b. 1999b , apj 527 624 punsly , b.  2006 , apj , 647 , 886 punsly , b. 2014 apjl 797 33 punsly , b. 2015 apj 806 47 punsly , b. , marziani , p. , kharb , p. , odea , c. , vestergaard , m .. 2016 apj 812 79 reynolds , c. , punsly , b. kharb , p. , odea , c. and wrobel , j. 2009 , apj , 706 , 851 reynolds , c. , punsly , b. and odea , c. p. 2013a",
    ", apjl , 773 , 10 reynolds , c. , punsly , b. , odea , c. p. , and hurley - walker , n. 2013b , apjl , 776 , 21 shankar , f. , dai , x. , sivakoff , g. , 2008 apj 687 859 sun , w .- h . , and malkan , m. a 1989 , apj 346 68 szuszkiewicz , e. , malkan , a. , and abramowicz , m. a. 1996 , apj 458 474 teng , s. h. , brandt , w.n . , harrison , f. a. et al .  2014 , apj , 758 , 19 telfer , r. , zheng , w. , kriss , g. , davidsen , a. 2002 apj 565 773 tucker , w. 1975 , _ radiation processes in astrophysics _ ( mit press , cambridge ) .",
    "ulvestad , j. , wrobel , j. and carilli , c. 1999 , apj , 516 , 134 ulvestad , j. et al .  1999 ,",
    "apjl , 517 , l81 veilleux , s. , trippe , m. , hamann , f. , et al .",
    "2013 , apj , 764 , 15 veilleux , s. , melendez , m. , tripp , t. , hamann , f. , and rupke , d. 2016 , apj , in press welsh , b. , wheatley , j. , and neil , j. 2011 , a & a 527 a15 wilhite , b. et al .",
    "2005 , apj 633 638 weymann , r.j .",
    ", morris , s.l . ,",
    "foltz , c.b . , hewett , p.c .",
    "1991 , apj , 373 , 23 weymann , r. 1997 in asp conf .",
    "128 , mass ejection from active nuclei ed , n.arav , i. shlosman and r.j .",
    "weymann ( san francisco : asp ) , 3 willott , c. , rawlings , s. , blundell , k. , lacy , m. 1999 , mnras 309 1017",
    "zhang , s. et al .",
    "2010 , apj , 714 , 367 zheng , w. et al . 1997 apj 475 469 zwart , j. et al .  2008 , mnras , 391 , 1545"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> long term radio monitoring of the broad absorption line quasar , mrk231 , at 17.6  ghz detected a strong flare in 2015 . </S>",
    "<S> this triggered four epochs of very long baseline array ( vlba ) observations from 8.4 ghz to 43 ghz as well as three epochs of x - ray observations with nustar and two with xmm over a 15 week period . </S>",
    "<S> two ejected components were detected by the vlba observations . </S>",
    "<S> a conservative lower bound on the apparent speed of the first ejection is attained by assuming that it was ejected when the flare began , @xmath0c . </S>",
    "<S> serendipitous far uv hubble space telescope observations combined with our long term radio monitoring seem to indicate that episodes of relativistic ejections suppress flux that is emitted at wavelengths shortward of the peak of the far uv spectral energy distribution , similar to what has been observed in radio loud quasars . </S>",
    "<S> episodes of strong jet production also seem to suppress the high ionization broad absorption line wind seen in weak jet states . </S>",
    "<S> we found a statistically significant increase ( @xmath1 ) of the 3 - 12 kev flux during the radio flare relative to a quiescent radio state . </S>",
    "<S> this is explained by an ultra - fast ( @xmath2c ) x - ray absorbing photo - ionized wind that is significantly detected only in the low radio state ( similar to galactic black holes ) . </S>",
    "<S> mrk  231 is becoming more radio loud . </S>",
    "<S> we found that the putative parsec scale radio lobe doubled in brightness in 9 years . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , large flares are more frequent with 3 major flares occurring at @xmath3 year intervals . </S>"
  ]
}