{
  "article_text": [
    "as in many other fields , large scale survey telescopes are already generating more data than humans are able to process , posing the need for new data - processing tools .",
    "some examples are the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the panoramic survey telescope and rapid response system ( pan - starrs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the all - sky automated survey for supernovae ( asas - sn , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the dark energy survey ( des , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) among others .",
    "furthermore , in the near future we expect to have the large synoptic survey telescope ( lsst , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) operative , which will scan the whole southern sky every couple of days producing terabytes of data per night .",
    "these instruments allow us to explore not only the space domain , but also the time domain opening new opportunities for understanding our universe . the high cadence transient survey ( hits ,",
    "* ) , is aimed at detecting and following up optical transients with characteristic timescales from hours to days .",
    "the primary goal of hits is to detect supernovae ( sne ) during their earliest hours of explosion .",
    "hits uses the dark energy camera ( decam , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) mounted at the prime focus of the victor m. blanco 4 m telescope on cerro tololo near la serena , chile . the hits pipeline detects transients using difference images : a template image is subtracted from the science image taken at the time of observation and point sources are located within this difference image . a custom made pipeline does the astrometry , psf matching , candidate extraction , and candidate classification into real or fake transients .",
    "our previous approach uses random forests ( rf , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) over a set of handmade features for candidate classification .",
    "similar approaches have been used in the past by different groups including @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "the feature engineering approach usually requires an important amount of work done by the scientist in order to create representative features for the problem at hand .",
    "an alternative approach is to learn the features from the data itself .",
    "convolutional neural networks ( cnns , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) are a type of artificial neural network ( ann , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that have recently gained interest in the machine learning community .",
    "cnns have achieved remarkable results in image processing challenges , outperforming previous approaches ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "though cnns have been applied to a variety of image processing problems , they have only recently caught the attention of the astronomy community mainly thanks to the galaxy zoo challenge .",
    "@xcite won the contest using a rotation invariant cnn approach .",
    "this approach was latter extended to data from the hubble space telescope in @xcite .    in this paper",
    "we introduce deep - hits , a framework for transient detection based on rotational invariant deep convolutional neural networks , and present the advantages and improved results obtained using this framework .",
    "we start by explaining the hits difference image data in section [ sec : data ] . in section",
    "[ sec : cnn ] we explain the basics of ann and cnn , as well as describing our model architecture .",
    "we then describe our experiments and show how the proposed cnn model significantly outperforms the feature engineering + rf approach in section [ sec : experiments ] .",
    "we finally summarise this work and conclude in section [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "the hits pipeline finds candidates by using the difference of a science and a template image and it produces image stamps of @xmath0 pixels for each candidate . in this paper",
    "we use data from the 2013 run , in which we observed 40 fields in the @xmath1 band every approximately 2 hours during 4 consecutive nights . for the classification model",
    "we use four stamps : template image , science image , difference image , and signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) difference image ( the difference image divided by the estimated local noise ) .    for the purpose of training the classification model",
    ", we created a data - set of real non - transients ( negatives hereafter ) and simulated transients ( positives hereafter ) .",
    "negatives were produced by running the first steps of the hits pipeline including the astrometry , psf matching , and candidate extraction over observed images .",
    "we evaluate the proposed model on the next step , which is candidate classification into non - transient or transient .",
    "negatives are artifacts caused mostly by statistical fluctuations of the background , inaccurate astrometry , and bad ccd columns .",
    "this produced 802,087 candidates which we labeled as negatives .",
    "notice these negatives were produced by running the pipeline over real data , hence no simulation process is used for obtaining them .",
    "positives were generated by selecting stamps of real psf - like sources and placing them at a different location at the same epoch and in the same ccd they were observed . by doing this",
    "we simulated positives using real point like sources , hence reproducing how transients would look like .",
    "point sources are obtained by first selecting sextractor @xcite isolated sources which are present in both frames with a consistent position and flux , and whose : size is within 2 median absolute deviations from the median size of the sources of the image , total flux is positive , and minimum pixel value including sky emission is greater than zero .",
    "we also filtered out those sources that show a sextractor flux inconsistent with its optimal photometry flux @xcite , which we found to be a good discriminator between stars and galaxies .",
    "positives are then added scaled to mimic the snr distribution of the candidates found in the image ( fitted power law distribution ) .",
    "images with these simulated transients are run through the first steps of the hits pipeline ( astrometry , psf matching and candidate extraction ) in order to get stamps of positives . as explained above ,",
    "non - simulated detected candidates are taken as negatives . in order to keep a balanced data - set",
    ", we used the same number of positives as negatives .",
    "figure [ fig : candidates ] shows examples of negative and positive candidates and their respective stamps .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     in figure [ fig : acc_vs_n ] we explore the performance of the rf and cnn models in terms of the size of the training set . for this purpose we saved 100,000 candidates for validation and trained each model with training sets of different sizes .",
    "it can be seen that the cnn model outperforms the rf model independently of the size of the training set used . furthermore , by using a rf model trained over @xmath2 candidates we obtain similar performance as using a cnn model trained over @xmath3 .        in order to test our framework over real data",
    ", we applied the rf and cnn models over sne found in the 2014 and 2015 campaigns . for our 2013 campaign",
    "we observed in the @xmath1 band filter , while in the 2014 and 2015 campaigns we observed in the @xmath4 band filter .",
    "we used stamps from sne at all epochs with a snr over 5 . during observation time",
    "hits found 47 sne in the 2014 campaign and 110 in the 2015 campaign , giving a total of 1166 candidates ( each sn has candidates at different epochs ) . using the user - defined fpr of @xmath5 described above",
    ", the rf model correctly classified 866 of these positive candidates ( fnr = 0.257 ) , while deep - hits correctly classified 921 of them ( fnr = 0.210 ) .",
    "notice that though we trained our models on @xmath1 band images , we are still able to classify candidates in the @xmath4 band filter . figure [ fig:2014 - 2015 ] shows the number of positive candidates incorrectly classified for the sne present in the 2014 and 2015 campaigns for the rf and cnn models in terms of the snr .",
    "it can be seen that for a snr below 8 the cnn model outperforms the rf model .",
    "these are the most important candidates when detecting transients in real time , as we hope to detect them at an early stage . for a snr over 8",
    "the rf model better recovers the true positives , which suggests the use of a hybrid model between rf and cnn",
    ". we will expand on this idea in future work .",
    "as we tested our model on real data from a different hits campaign , and also using a band filter different from the one used for training , we did not achieve the low fnr shown in figure [ fig : det ] .",
    "however our cnn model is able to recover more true positives from images in the g - band filter than the rf - based model given the user - defined operation point described above .",
    "we currently do not have a robust way of measuring the false positives automatically in the 2014 and 2015 data - sets as the new observational setup yields a significantly larger population of unknown asteroids which would need to be removed from the set of negatives .",
    "further research is needed in order to assess the best way of transferring our cnn model between different data - sets in terms of recovering positives and negatives .",
    "we introduced deep - hits , a rotation invariant deep convolutional neural network ( cnn ) for detecting transients in survey images .",
    "deep - hits discriminates between real and fake transients in images from the high cadence transient survey ( hits ) , a survey that aims to find transients with characteristic timescales from hours to days using the dark energy camera ( decam ) .",
    "we compared the proposed cnn model against our previous approach based on a random forest ( rf ) classifier trained over features designed by hand .",
    "deep - hits not only outperforms the rf approach , but it also has the advantage of learning suitable features for the problem automatically from the data . the proposed classification model was able to improve the overall accuracy of the hits pipeline from @xmath6 to @xmath7 . in practice , by using deep - hits we can reduce the number of missed transients to approximately 1/5 when accepting around 2,000 transients per night .",
    "the use of deep learning models over next generation surveys , such as the lsst may have a great impact on detecting and classifying the unknown unknowns of our universe .",
    "deep - hits is open source and available at github ( https://github.com/guille-c/deep-hits ) , and the version used in this paper is archived on zenodo ( https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.190760 ) .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge financial support from conicyt - chile through its fondecyt postdoctoral grant number 3160747 ; conicyt - pcha through its national m.sc .",
    "scholarship 2016 number 22162464 ; conicyt through the fondecyt initiation into research project no . 11130228 ; conicyt - chile through grant fondecyt 1140816 ; conicyt - chile and nsf through the programme of international cooperation project dpi201400090 ; conicyt through the infrastructure quimal project no .",
    "140003 ; basal project pfb03 ; the ministry of economy , development , and tourism s millennium science initiative through grant ic120009 , awarded to the millennium institute of astrophysics ( mas ) .",
    "powered@nlhpc : this research was partially supported by the supercomputing infrastructure of the nlhpc ( ecm-02 ) .",
    "we acknowledge the usage of the belka gpu cluster ( fondequip eqm 140101 ) .",
    "this project used data obtained with the dark energy camera ( decam ) , which was constructed by the dark energy survey ( des ) collaboration .",
    "funding for the des projects has been provided by the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the u.s",
    ". national science foundation , the ministry of science and education of spain , the science and technology facilities council of the united kingdom , the higher education funding council for england , the national center for supercomputing applications at the university of illinois at urbana - champaign , the kavli institute of cosmological physics at the university of chicago , center for cosmology and astro - particle physics at the ohio state university , the mitchell institute for fundamental physics and astronomy at texas a&m university , financiadora de estudos e projetos , fundao carlos chagas filho de amparo , financiadora de estudos e projetos , fundao carlos chagas filho de amparo  pesquisa do estado do rio de janeiro , conselho nacional de desenvolvimento cientfico e tecnolgico and the ministrio da cincia , tecnologia e inovao , the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft and the collaborating institutions in the dark energy survey .",
    "the collaborating institutions are argonne national laboratory , the university of california at santa cruz , the university of cambridge , centro de investigaciones enrgeticas , medioambientales y tecnolgicas ",
    "madrid , the university of chicago , university college london , the des - brazil consortium , the university of edinburgh , the eidgenssische technische hochschule ( eth ) zrich , fermi national accelerator laboratory , the university of illinois at urbana - champaign , the institut de cincies de lespai ( ieec / csic ) , the institut de fsica daltes energies , lawrence berkeley national laboratory , the ludwig - maximilians universitt mnchen and the associated excellence cluster universe , the university of michigan , the national optical astronomy observatory , the university of nottingham , the ohio state university , the university of pennsylvania , the university of portsmouth , slac national accelerator laboratory , stanford university , the university of sussex , and texas a&m university .",
    "all plots were created using matplotlib @xcite .",
    "bertin , e. , & arnouts , s. 1996 , , 117 , 393 bloom , j. s. , richards , j. w. , nugent , p. e. et al .",
    "2012 , , 124 , 921 , 1175 breiman , l. 2001 , machine learning , 45 , 1 , 532 brink , h. , richards , j. w. , poznanski , d. 2013 , , 432 , 2 , 1047 cabrera - vives , g. , reyes , i. , frster , f. et al .",
    "2016 , in proceedings of the 2016 international joint conference on neural networks ( ijcnn 2016 ) , supernovae detection by using convolutional neural networks ( vancouver , canada ) , 251 dark energy survey collaboration , abbott , t. , abdalla , f. b. , et al",
    ". 2016 , , 460 , 1270 dieleman , s. , willett , k. w. , & dambre , j. 2015 , , 450 , 1441 flaugher , b. , diehl , h. t. , honscheid , k. , et al .",
    "2015 , , 150 , 150 frster , f. , maureira , j. c. , san martn , j. et al .",
    "2016 , , 832 , 155 fukushima , k. 1980 , biological cybernetics , 36 , 4 , 193 goldstein , d. a. , d ' andrea , c. b. , fischer , j. a. et al .",
    "2015 , , 150 , 82 hodapp , k. w. , kaiser , n. , aussel , h. , et al .",
    "2004 , astronomische nachrichten , 325 , 636 huertas - company , m. , gravet , r. , cabrera - vives , g. et al .",
    "2015 , , 221 , 1 , 8 hunter , j. d. 2007 , computing in science & engineering , 9 , 3 , 90 lecun , y. , bottou , l. , orr , g. , mller , k. 1998 , in neural networks : tricks of the trade , ed : montavon , g. , orr , g. , , mller , k. ( springer ) , 9 lsst science collaboration , abell , p. a. , allison , j. , et al .",
    "2009 , arxiv:0912.0201 krizhevsky , a. , sutskever , i. & hinton , g. e. 2012 , in proceedings of the neural information processing systems conference , imagenet classification with deep convolutional neural networks ( lake tahoe , nv , usa ) , 1097 mcculloch , w. & pitts , w. 1943 , the bulletin of mathematical biophysics , 5 , 4 , 115 nair v. , hinton g. e. , 2010 , in proceedings of the 27th international conference on machine learning ( icml-10 ) , rectified linear units improve restricted boltzmann machines ( haifa , israel ) , 807 naylor , t. 1998 , , 296 , 339 pedregosa , f. , varoquaux , g. , gramfort , et al . 2011 , journal of machine learning research , 12 , 2825 razavian , a. s. , azizpour , h. , sullivan , j. et al .",
    "2014 , in proceedings of the ieee conference on computer vision and pattern recognition workshops ( cvprw ) , cnn features off - the - shelf : an astounding baseline for recognition ( columbus , oh , usa ) , 512 r. romano , c. r. aragon , and c. ding , 2006 , in proceedings of the 5th international conference on machine learning and applications , supernova recognition using support vector machines ( orlando , fl , usa ) , 77 shappee b. j. et al . , 2014 , , 788 , 48 srivastava n. , hinton g. , krizhevsky a. , sutskever i. , salakhutdinov r. , 2014 , journal of machine learning research , 15 , 1929 szegedy , c. liu , w. , jia , y. et al . 2014 , arxiv::1409.4842 theano development team , 2016 , arxiv:1605.02688 welch , b. l. 1947 , biometrika , 34 , 1/2 , 28 d. g. york and sdss collaboration , 2000 , , 120 , 1579 1587 zhang , g. p. 2000 , systems , man , and cybernetics , part c : applications and reviews , ieee transactions on , 30 , 4 , 451462"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we introduce deep - hits , a rotation invariant convolutional neural network ( cnn ) model for classifying images of transients candidates into artifacts or real sources for the high cadence transient survey ( hits ) . </S>",
    "<S> cnns have the advantage of learning the features automatically from the data while achieving high performance . </S>",
    "<S> we compare our cnn model against a feature engineering approach using random forests ( rf ) . </S>",
    "<S> we show that our cnn significantly outperforms the rf model reducing the error by almost half . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , for a fixed number of approximately 2,000 allowed false transient candidates per night we are able to reduce the miss - classified real transients by approximately 1/5 . to the best of our knowledge , </S>",
    "<S> this is the first time cnns have been used to detect astronomical transient events </S>",
    "<S> . our approach will be very useful when processing images from next generation instruments such as the large synoptic survey telescope ( lsst ) . </S>",
    "<S> we have made all our code and data available to the community for the sake of allowing further developments and comparisons at https://github.com/guille-c/deep-hits . </S>"
  ]
}