{
  "article_text": [
    "the animal kingdom is full of fascinating phenomena on every level .",
    "an essential part of this diverse biosphere is the complex biological interaction network between the different and within the same species in which interactions are categorized based on the benefits and harms of the interacting partners .",
    "an important type of these driving forces is the prey - predator interaction , which is also a very exciting example of collective behaviour in nature @xcite .",
    "natural prey - predator systems have already been studied many times , including long term observations of population dynamics and a large number of field studies about animals typical behaviour .",
    "one of the governing factors of these tendencies is the group hunting of large carnivores , like the lions of the serengeti , the wild chimpanzees in the tai national park , the coyotes in the yellowstone national park @xcite .",
    "the results of these investigations revealed many interesting behavioural patterns of the animals , e.g. special hunting tactics and the size of the packs .",
    "prey - predator systems have also raised the interest of theorists , who have constructed models to describe the behaviour of competing populations since lotka and volterra . as the field developed , the commonly used model schemes shifted from the continuous , differential equation based ones towards discrete models due to the advancements of computational technology @xcite . in the past few years , agent based modelling also became popular using the concept of self propelled particles in the spirit of the model by vicsek et al @xcite .    in this work",
    "we propose a bio - inspired , continuous - space and discrete - time agent - based model of group chasing for the rarely studied scenario in which the evader is significantly faster than the pursuers .",
    "this realistic chasing approach overcomes many weaknesses of the previously published models .",
    "it combines many environmental factors like time delay , finite acceleration ( inertia ) , external noise and closed boundaries ( while most of the models in the literature are still using periodic boundary conditions ) .",
    "moreover , it includes special collective chasing tactics , the chaser s prediction of their target s future position and the erratic escapers tactics as well @xcite .",
    "significantly , our model operates universally in both two and three dimensions .",
    "group chasing is one of the most important forms of collective behaviour .",
    "its significance arises from the fact that cooperation among predators can notably increase their chances of catching even hard - to - catch prey which makes these collaborative species much more successful predators .",
    "packs in which the cooperation is more efficient have better chances of survival , which puts an evolutionary pressure on the animals to optimize their strategies @xcite    previous field studies have reported approximately 50 different species in which increases in group size above a certain point reduces their success rate per capita @xcite .",
    "a biologically logical explanation is that the group became too large and not all the predators were able to feed even if the hunt was successful , therefore the size of chaser groups generally do not grow past a specific threshold @xcite .",
    "the variety of predator  prey systems is extraordinarily rich within birds , mammals , fishes or even insects @xcite .",
    "a surprising finding is that even cheetahs , the fastest animals in the world , show an affinity for hunting in pairs @xcite .",
    "additionally , wolves tend to hunt elk , while coyotes have been studied hunting for pronghorns in e.g. migrating corridors using landmarks as a strategic tool ( reported in yellowstone national park ) . in both cases",
    "the prey is faster than the predator @xcite .",
    "we can also conclude that even wolves , one of the most unwavering examples in the animal kingdom , give up their pursuit after roughly one - two kilometres ( which hardly takes two minutes at their top speed ) .",
    "the cooperation between hunters has different levels .",
    "for example , group hunting within bats just emerges completely unintentionally from the similar hunting methods of the individuals , while the study of large carnivores led to the finding that certain predators while hazing their prey tend to surround it collectively @xcite .",
    "this so called encircling was reported mostly regarding wolves and lions ( figure [ fig : encirc ] ) , but even bottle - nose dolphins have been observed while encircling their prey @xcite .    despite the limited available data , it is clear that for many predator species group hunting proved to be more beneficial then solitary hunting , even if not every member of the group participate in the pursuit .",
    "evolution seems to have optimized the size of these hunting packs , because in the majority of cases , hunting pack size falls within the range of 3 - 10 ( figure [ fig : optimalgroupsize ] ) .",
    "fleeing is the most common response from animals against their chasers .",
    "first intuition would suggest that the only existing escaping strategy is to rush away from the chaser(s ) as fast as possible .",
    "however , in real biological systems surprisingly different escaping strategies can also occur . based on a concept proposed by domenici et.al .",
    "we can differentiate between direct escaping and erratic escaping as separate strategies , although other kinds of strange actions like freezing or attacking back can also happen @xcite .",
    "direct escaping means that the prey runs straight in the opposite direction from its chaser(s ) and relies on its speed and endurance to survive . in other words , under ideal conditions",
    "the escaper can outrun its chaser(s ) , but the prey can be caught if it is slower , if it encounters unexpected landmarks or if the chasers strategies are more advanced .        when the escaping is erratic , the prey can use a mixture of direct escaping and other , stochastic patterns of motion .",
    "this can be zigzagging which is a series of sudden changes in the direction or some even more advanced movements such as spinning , looping , and whirling ( figure [ fig : zigzag ] ) @xcite .",
    "for example , deer use a particular distribution of escaping angles , which is also slightly dependent on the distance from its chaser ( figure [ fig : deer ] ) .",
    "the effectiveness of these quick and unexpected changes in the escapers direction relies mostly on the animals inertia ( and the difference between inertia of the prey and the predator ) and the different kinds of time delays within the animals sensory and motor system , even if their reaction time can be very short ( in the order of magnitude of 50 @xmath0s ) in chase and escape situations @xcite .",
    "[ table : table2 ]    .the escaping distance of several typical prey animals of large carnivores @xcite . [ cols= \" <",
    ", < \" , ]      we examined the effect of outer , gaussian noise within the range of @xmath1 m@xmath2/s@xmath3 , where 0.2 m@xmath2/s@xmath3 is equivalent to e.g. the blowing wind with a medium strength .",
    "the values of effectiveness@xmath4 proved to be quite robust and stable against these perturbation , just slightly increased the deviation of the statistical results .",
    "the standard deviation of the noise amplitude ",
    "effectiveness@xmath4 dataset was about 2% in two dimensions , and 2.4% in three dimensions , is it stayed slightly constant .      despite our model s simplicity , while studying it in real time we can observe very interesting , life - like motion patterns emerging .",
    "these can be categorized as the following :    * the optimal group of chasers catches the prey very quickly : they rush towards the escaper on the right trajectories to block all the possible escaping paths of the evader .",
    "this can also happen ( with a lower frequency ) in three dimensions .",
    "this sometimes results in line formation , too . *",
    "if the chasing parameters are medium - level efficient , `` on - the - field '' pursuit often happens : the agent go across the field several times , the escaper moves along the wall , and hops back to the center of the field several times . in these situations",
    "the classical encircling ( observed e.g. about lions ) can also happen completely emergently ( figure [ fig : sim ] ) . with significantly more chasers , this phenomenon ( sometimes called as caging ) can be observed in three dimensions as well .",
    "in this section we demonstrated that those chasers which solitarily are unable to catch the prey can successfully pursue it if there is a certain , well - parameterized interaction between them , which is their collective chasing tactics .",
    "for this we studied and optimized the group of chasers parameters by mapping their parameter space .",
    "we have found that even in three dimensions three chasers can efficiently catch the prey if the interaction s strength and characteristic distance are set properly .",
    "we have shown that the prediction method enhances the capabilities of the chasers ( even if their interaction parameters are sub - optimal ) , and that prediction can suppress the negative effects of time delay .",
    "we pointed out that these optimal chasing tactics are robust against external noise and have found interesting , emergent behaviour patterns , such as the life - like encircling .",
    "the data are also implying that chasing in three dimensions is a lot more difficult task in comparison to two dimensions , which is consistent with the fact that truly three dimensional pursuits are very rare in nature .",
    "what is more common in three dimensions is to restrict the degrees of freedom in some way .",
    "flying and swimming animals frequently use the natural borders of their open 3d space ( water - air or air - ground boundaries ) to drive their prey into the corner .",
    "it has also been reported for group hunting dolphins that certain individuals tend to have different roles during the hunt , for example they are creating artificial blockades to restrict the possible escaping directions of the fish schools and catch them more efficiently @xcite . finally , certain species , like the fish - hunting cone snails or all kinds of web spiders use various sit - and - wait strategies  they hide and attack abruptly only when the prey is close enough @xcite .",
    "we studied the panic threshold ( @xmath5 ) which is the control parameter of the zigzag pattern of motion and seek the optimum of @xmath6 and @xmath7 . in this section @xmath8 for each data point .",
    "as the panic parameter of the zigzag motion was defined in ( [ eq : panic ] ) , it is a real number between 0 and 1 which depends on the distance between the escaper and its nearest chaser .",
    "if this value reaches the panic threshold , the escaper turns on the zigzag motion . at first we examined the effectiveness@xmath9 values as a function of @xmath5 to study the zigzag s effect on the pursuits outcome .",
    "the results are presented on figure [ fig : panicth ] with and without delay , in two and three dimensions .",
    "these figures tell us that zigzag can significantly improve the escaper s efficiency in all the studied cases , moreover , @xmath5 does have optimal values .     as the function of @xmath5 in _",
    "a ) _ two and _ b ) _ three dimensions with and without delay shows that the escaper can optimize it s tactics with a well - chosen panic threshold parameter , therefore increase its lifespan . ]     as the function of @xmath5 in _ a ) _ two and _ b ) _ three dimensions with and without delay shows that the escaper can optimize it s tactics with a well - chosen panic threshold parameter , therefore increase its lifespan . ]",
    "the zigzagging has another parameter : @xmath6 , which is the critical distance at which the escaper turns off the zigzagging and gets back to the direct escaping to avoid dangerous situations due to the closeness of the chaser(s ) .",
    "figure [ fig : zigg ] implies that in 2d @xmath10 m is a universal optimum , while , in 3d if @xmath11 m , the chasers can not catch the escaper . with other words i ) zigzagging too close to the chasers is disadvantageous in both two and three dimensions , ii ) in two dimensions there is an advantageous regime with an optimal parameter for the zigzagging , iii ) and in three dimensions the effectiveness@xmath9 gets saturated at @xmath12 which means that the evader successfully escape even without the zigzag tactics .     as the function of @xmath6 in _",
    "a ) _ two and _ b ) _ three dimensions with and without delay . ]     as the function of @xmath6 in _ a ) _ two and _ b ) _ three dimensions with and without delay . ]",
    "based on the corresponding ethological literature we built up a bio - inspired realistic agent - based approach to model collective chasing in continuous - space and discrete - time within closed boundaries for the case when the escaper is significantly faster than the chasers , a situation in which the chasers have no chance to catch the prey alone or without collaboration . examining the model we have found the following :    * an optimal group of chasers , which can catch a faster prey , exists in both two and three dimensions when there is a soft , repulsive interaction force between them .",
    "this would be impossible without the interaction between the chasers .",
    "the optimal group size found here is also comparable to the ones observed in nature when using realistic model parameters . *",
    "emergent behaviour occurs - with certain parameters the chasers have the chance to encircle ( encage ) their prey .",
    "these patterns emerge right from the implemented chasing rules and reflect similar phenomena observed in real biological systems . * if the chasers are using the prediction method to forecast their targets position , their effectiveness increases .",
    "* great delay can completely suppress the chasers success , but with a long enough prediction time , this can be overcome .",
    "* we demonstrated that the zigzag pattern of motion of the erratic escapers can be advantageous , especially when there is delay in the system .",
    "* chasing in three dimensions is a much more difficult task for chasers , therefore , the evader is more likely to survive . *",
    "both the chasers and the escapers optimal set of parameters seems to be robust against external noise .",
    "even though our model overcomes those previously proposed in many aspects ( e.g. two and three dimensions , delay , erratic escaper , prediction ) , it lets many directions of the topic to be studied and extended , like i ; ) many chasers vs. many escapers is just as interesting or even more escapers vs. a small group of chasers ii ; ) applying evolutionary optimization methods on the species iii ; ) finding real - life applications iv ; ) equipping agents with machine learning or real - time adaptive algorithms .",
    "this work was partly supported by the following grants : jnos bolyai research scholarship of the hungarian academy of sciences ( bo/00219/15/6 ) ; k_16 research grant of the hungarian academy of sciences ( k 119467 ) .",
    "10                                        b.  d. lpez , `` bottlenose dolphin ( tursiops truncatus ) predation on a marine fin fish farm : some underwater observations , '' _ aquatic mammals _ , vol .",
    "32 , no .  3 , p.  305",
    ", 2006 . c.  packer and l.  ruttan , `` the evolution of cooperative hunting , '' _ american naturalist _ , pp .  159198 , 1988 .",
    "i.  bailey , j.  p. myatt , and a.  m. wilson , `` group hunting within the carnivora : physiological , cognitive and environmental influences on strategy and cooperation , '' _ behavioral ecology and sociobiology _ , vol .  67 , no .  1 ,",
    "pp .  117 , 2013 .",
    "s.  f. brosnan and r.  bshary , `` cooperation and deception : from evolution to mechanisms , '' _ philosophical transactions of the royal society of london b : biological sciences _ , vol .",
    "365 , no .",
    "1553 , pp .  25932598 , 2010 .",
    "p.  domenici , j.  m. blagburn , and j.  p. bacon , `` animal escapology i : theoretical issues and emerging trends in escape trajectories , '' _ the journal of experimental biology _",
    "214 , no .",
    "15 , pp .  24632473 , 2011 .",
    "s.  edut and d.  eilam , `` protean behavior under barn - owl attack : voles alternate between freezing and fleeing and spiny mice flee in alternating patterns , '' _ behavioural brain research _",
    "155 , no .  2 , pp .",
    "207216 , 2004 .                      c.  virgh , g.  vsrhelyi , n.  tarcai , t.  szrnyi , g.  somorjai , t.  nepusz , and t.  vicsek , `` flocking algorithm for autonomous flying robots , '' _ bioinspiration & biomimetics _ , vol .  9 , no .  2 , p.  025012",
    ", 2014 .",
    "g.  vsrhelyi , c.  virgh , g.  somorjai , n.  tarcai , t.  szorenyi , t.  nepusz , and t.  vicsek , `` outdoor flocking and formation flight with autonomous aerial robots , '' in _ intelligent robots and systems ( iros 2014 ) , 2014 ieee / rsj international conference on _ , pp .  38663873 , ieee , 2014 .",
    "`` hunting lions - image . ''",
    "online ; accessed 15 april 2016 .",
    "norris , kenneth s. , and carl r. schilt .",
    "`` cooperative societies in three - dimensional space : on the origins of aggregations , flocks , and schools , with special reference to dolphins and fish . '' ethology and sociobiology 9.2 ( 1988 ) : 149 - 179 .",
    "gazda , stefanie k. , et al .",
    "`` a division of labour with role specialization in group  hunting bottlenose dolphins ( tursiops truncatus ) off cedar key , florida . ''",
    "proceedings of the royal society of london b : biological sciences 272.1559 ( 2005 ) : 135 - 140 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose a bio - inspired , agent - based approach to describe the natural phenomenon of group chasing in both two and three dimensions . using a set of local interaction rules we created a continuous - space and discrete - time model with time delay , external noise and limited acceleration . </S>",
    "<S> we implemented a unique collective chasing strategy , optimized its parameters and studied its properties when chasing a much faster , erratic escaper . </S>",
    "<S> we show that collective chasing strategies can significantly enhance the chasers success rate . </S>",
    "<S> our realistic approach handles group chasing within closed , soft boundaries  contrasting most of those published in the literature with periodic ones  and resembles several properties of pursuits observed in nature , such as the emergent encircling or the escaper s zigzag motion . </S>"
  ]
}