{
  "article_text": [
    "@xcite and @xcite first noted that the milky way ( mw ) satellite galaxies lmc , smc , draco , ursa minor , sculptor and fornax ( @xcite also included leo i and ii ) , as well as several star clusters , align along a great polar circle around the mw .",
    "however , it was not until almost three decades later that @xcite for the first time showed that the then - known eleven mw satellite galaxies form a disk of satellites ( dos ) : their distribution is highly flattened and oriented almost perpendicular to the mw .",
    "they also pointed out that this is in contrast to predictions from the standard cosmological model .    while the existence of planes of satellite galaxies and signatures of their kinematic coherence have now been firmly established for the mw and m31 systems @xcite , and indications for such structures",
    "have been found beyond the local group @xcite , the origin , stability , and most importantly interpretation of the satellite planes within the context of cosmological models is still controversially debated ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite recently joined this discussion with two arxiv preprints . in @xcite ,",
    "the authors call into question the evidence for the mw dos and its kinematic coherence , even suggesting that it might be a `` misinterpretation of the data '' . in @xcite",
    "they then demonstrate that their single hydrodynamical simulation of a mw - like host halo does not contain a strongly flattened or kinematically coherent satellite plane .",
    "given our previous experience in studying the phase - space distribution of the mw satellite galaxies , we feel obliged to comment on these contributions due to their combination of far reaching claims and lacking evidence for those .",
    "this is caused , in part , by methodological problems , lacking statistical analysis , and other inaccuracies of varying degrees of severity .",
    "we consider the following aspects to be required in order to come to meaningful conclusions on the existence and prominence of the dos and kinematic correlations among simulated satellite galaxies : the analysis should be statistically sound , and thus transparently measure the significance of its results",
    ". it should take ( at least the dominant ) measurement errors into consideration , as well as be aware of the influence of observational biases . finally , to be able to determine the strength of a phase - space coherence requires comparison with a well defined null hypothesis , preferably an isotropic model ( to which the before mentioned biases should be applied , too ) .",
    "we will discuss these aspects in more detail in the following , and assess whether @xcite have sufficiently considered these points .    to facilitate easier comparison of this comment with their manuscripts",
    ", we use the term dos here , even though vast polar structure ( vpos ) would be more accurate since it implies the alignment of additional objects and streams found by @xcite .",
    ", blue dot ) .",
    "@xcite report @xmath0  for a sample of 39 mw satellites ( blue square ) .",
    "while they argue that such an increase shows that the distribution becomes significantly more isotropic , this figure demonstrates that a slightly increased @xmath1  for a larger sample size might in fact have a higher significance of the flattening compared to isotropic (  randomized  ) and simulated distributions .",
    "figure adopted from fig .",
    "3 in @xcite . , width=302 ]        to quantify whether an apparent correlation is real , it is necessary to determine its statistical significance . in doing so",
    ", one can estimate how likely it is that the observed configuration could arise from random chance .",
    "when working with phase - space distributions of satellite galaxy systems , it has proven useful to compare their properties with those drawn from isotropic distributions ( in position and/or velocity ) .",
    "this allows for an efficient and easily implemented test of significance , which has the benefit of being agnostic to underlying cosmological models and thus it is applicable to observations and simulations alike .",
    "observational uncertainties of measured parameters need to be taken into account in scientific analyses , especially when investigating potentially highly correlated systems . in such cases , measurement uncertainties can constitute an important contribution to the measured scatter in relations , or even dominate entirely in case of negligible intrinsic scatter ( see e.g. @xcite for a recent example of a detailed discussion of measured vs. intrinsic scatter and the influence of measurement uncertainties in the radial acceleration relation ) .",
    "@xcite fit planes to , and measure the corresponding flattening of , three samples of mw satellite galaxies ( the 11 classical ones , as well as 27 and 39 objects ) .",
    "information on which exact objects constitute the larger samples , and on what positions and distances were adopted for them , has not been provided .",
    "@xcite report both the minor - to - major axis ratios @xmath1  of these distributions as well as the absolute root - mean - square heights .",
    "we will focus on the former in the following , but similar arguments apply to the latter .",
    "@xcite consider three cases for weighting the distance of the individual galaxies in the fit of a plane to the dos and the estimate of @xmath1  of the dos , namely no weighting , a down - weighting with @xmath2 , and a down - weighting with @xmath3  ( where @xmath4 is the galactocentric distance of a satellite ) .",
    "reasons for why such a weighting of satellites in the plane fitting routine is less informative have been discussed at length in @xcite and shall not be repeated here . due to the arguments presented in @xcite",
    ", we discuss in the following only the case where the satellite galaxies are not weighted by their distance .    according to @xcite , the axis ratio @xmath1  increases from 0.2 for the 11 classical satellites , to about 0.26 for their sample of 39 satellites .",
    "they argue that such an increase demonstrates that the dos becomes `` significantly more isotropic and thicker '' .",
    "however , no significance has been measured by them , such that this judgement seems questionable .",
    "this worry is corroborated by fig .",
    "[ fig : axisratios ] , which shows how the axis ratio flattening of simulated satellite distributions changes with the number of considered objects . the data in this plot",
    "is from the elvis suite of standard cosmology simulations , and a discussion of the effect of increasing satellite number on @xmath1  and other parameters has already been published in @xcite .",
    "the figure shows that the value of @xmath1  is expected to increase rapidly for larger sample sizes ( in standard cosmological models as well as isotropic systems ) , such that even a moderate increase in the observed @xmath1  to 0.26 at 39 satellites in fact _ increases _ the distance between the observed and the expected @xmath1 , both for simulated satellite systems ( black solid and red dashed lines ) as well as for isotropic distributions ( green dotted line and green shaded area ) . had @xcite performed a comparison with such expectations and thereby determined the statistical significance of the flattening , they might well have found the significance to in fact increase for the larger sample sizes .",
    "the data might thus point to the opposite of their interpretation : that the increase in sample size strengthens the evidence for the dos , rather than diminishes it .    in their comparison to a single hydrodynamical simulation ,",
    "@xcite find @xmath5  for the 11 most massive simulated dwarf galaxies , which they argue is close to the observed value of 0.18 .",
    "however , to be able to meaningfully interpret differences in numerical values , a statistical analysis of the distribution of c / a values is required .",
    "only this can inform judgement of whether @xmath6  and @xmath5  are close , or in significant conflict . as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : axisratios ] , @xmath1  values of   0.3 can be reached by the shown dark matter only simulations , whereas the observed value of 0.18 is so low that it is never reached , which hints at the latter option .",
    "the model by @xcite may produce a different result , but this can only be determined if they run their simulations according to their model sufficiently often to allow a statistical analysis .",
    "similar arguments can be made about the perspective of @xcite on the orbital poles of the mw satellite galaxies . in their fig .",
    "2 , they use data compiled in @xcite to largely reproduce the latter study s figure 1 , in particular the distribution of the orbital poles of the mw satellite galaxies . additional hst measurements of proper motions @xcite  which result in updated , more tightly clustered orbital poles  have not been considered by @xcite . in fig .",
    "[ fig : orbitalpoles ] we show an updated version of the plot originally published in @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the orbital pole uncertainties ( green great - circle segments in fig . [",
    "fig : orbitalpoles ] ) have been omitted in @xcite .",
    "the authors then arbitrarily set an orbital pole alignment criterion , according to which an orbital pole has to be within @xmath7  of the normal vector to the best - fit plane of satellites .",
    "six of the 11 classical mw satellite galaxies fall within this category around one of the two normal directions .",
    "not mentioned by @xcite is that sculptor is also within @xmath7  of the plane normal but in a counter - orbiting orientation , such that 7 out of 11 objects have orbital poles that align to within @xmath7 with the satellite plane normal .",
    "@xcite additionally neglect to mention that two other orbital poles are just barely excluded by the not further motivated cut at @xmath7 : carina s most - likely orbital pole is at an angular distance of @xmath8 , and sextans s is at @xmath9  @xcite .",
    "furthermore , both have orbital pole uncertainties that extend well into the region close to the satellite plane normal . within just their @xmath10  uncertainties ,",
    "sextans is consistent with aligning perfectly with the satellite plane normal , and carina aligns to within @xmath11 .    as was the case for the measure of the plane flattening , @xcite do not attempt to determine the significance of the orbital pole concentration , while this method would deliver more conclusive results than the arbitrary @xmath7  cut - off done by them .",
    "in fact , it was shown in @xcite that the probability to find the eight most - aligned orbital poles to cluster at least as tightly as observed it 0.1 per cent if the distribution of orbital poles was isotropic , and that the average direction of those orbital poles differs by only @xmath12  from the normal vector of the best fitting plane to the dos ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "@xcite therefore neither base their conclusion on a statistically sound determination of the orbital pole correlation s significance , nor do they take the sometimes substantial measurement errors affecting proper motions into account .",
    "measurement errors were discussed in @xcite , who also pointed out that orbital poles with smaller uncertainties align more closely with the satellite plane normal .",
    "even if one grants that the dos is currently a thin and coherent structure , one could still argue that this is a chance occurrence , and that the same satellites will exhibit a very different distribution in the future ( and also in the past ) .",
    "@xcite explore this possibility by carrying out orbital integrations , advancing the positions of the satellites in time , starting from their currently - measured positions and velocities .",
    "there is a problem with drawing conclusions from simulations like these .",
    "the hypothesis being tested is that the dos is a long - lived structure ; that is , that the orbits of the satellites are narrowly confined in integral - space .",
    "suppose that the hypothesis is true .",
    "it follows that _ any _ errors in the _ simulated _ orbits  due to errors in the initial positions or velocities , in the assumed form of the potential , etc . ",
    "are _ guaranteed _ to result in a decrease in time of the system s coherence .",
    "given that the current satellite distribution _ is _ highly coherent , a loss of coherence with time is almost certain to occur in simulations of this sort , and it can not be taken as evidence that the existing correlations are short - lived . in order to make such an argument , one would need to show that there is _ no _ set of initial conditions consistent with the observed proper motions and positions that can result in long - term coherence , and furthermore that this is true in every potential that is consistent with observations of the mw .    calculating a satellite galaxy",
    "s orbit around the milky way requires precise knowledge of the underlying gravitational potential , as well as exact measurements of the satellite s current position , distance , line - of - sight velocity and proper motion , and of the galactocentric distance of the sun and the solar motion with respect to the galactic center .",
    "many of these quantities are not well constrained . even for a parameter as fundamental as the total mass of the mw",
    ", current estimates range from 0.6 to more than @xmath13  @xcite .",
    "likewise , some studies found the shape of the mw halo to be close to spherical , while others prefer a triaxial halo @xcite , which can have profound effects on orbital stability of a satellite plane @xcite .",
    "the matter is further complicated by the fact that the satellites orbit in an evolving potential .    in order to disprove the hypothesis that the dos is rotationally supported , it is therefore not sufficient to integrate the satellite orbits based on their most likely proper motions in a single fixed potential .",
    "instead , the following , stronger claim must be proven : even considering the substantial proper motion uncertainties ( as well as other measurement uncertainties and the fact that the profile , shape , and depth of the mw potential is not well known ) , there is no configuration of possible satellite orbits that result in a stable dos . _",
    "the burden of proof thus lies not with the dos in showing that the most - likely proper motion measurements result in a stable satellite plane .",
    "rather , it needs to be demonstrated that within the range of possible proper motions of all satellites , no mutual configuration exists which kept the objects currently orbiting within the dos in a coherent structure in the past . _    in their fig .",
    "3 , @xcite show their results for the future orbits of those mw satellite galaxies with measured proper motions , apparently assuming ( they do not specify this ) their most - likely 3d velocities .",
    "they plot the satellites current , as well as their future positions .",
    "future positions after 1 and 5 gyr are shown ( as reported both in the text and the caption ) .",
    "these orbit integrations do not take the before mentioned sources of uncertainties into account .",
    "that @xcite find an apparent dispersion of the satellite plane is therefore not surprising , and it does not allow any meaningful conclusion as to the dynamical state of the dos .",
    "we further note that either the reported times , the plotted distances , or the overall orbit integration in @xcite is wrong : with typical velocities of 200kms@xmath14 , a mw satellite would have moved by about 1mpc in 5gyr ( and consequently many would have completed multiple orbits ) .",
    "this is substantially more than the few 10 kpc of motion shown in their figure .",
    "this illustrates that the spatial distribution of discoverable mw satellite galaxies suffers from complicated positional biases .",
    "an analysis expanding beyond the 11 classical satellite galaxies to fainter objects thus needs to consider and model these complex biases in order to arrive at a statistically sound comparison of the observed flattening of the satellite system and simulations .",
    "figure adopted from fig . 1 in @xcite , with added des data .",
    ", width=302 ]    the observed distribution of satellite galaxies around the milky way is affected by a number of observational biases .",
    "crowding by foreground stars and obscuration by mw dust make it very difficult to detect even bright satellites close to the galactic plane .",
    "fainter objects can only be discovered in deep surveys , the two most successful of which have been the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , @xcite ) and the dark energy survey ( des , @xcite ) . as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : biases ] , they have been confined to specific regions of the sky .",
    "faint dwarf galaxies might still be lurking in the regions not observed .",
    "the survey footprints can thus introduce strong spatial biases in the distribution of known mw satellite galaxies , which are further complicated by other effects affecting dwarf galaxy discoverability , such as local galactic foreground and variations of observing conditions between different survey pointings .",
    "modelling such spatial biases is particularly important when investigating the spatial distribution of satellite galaxies .",
    "it has been demonstrated that approximate approaches to such modelling are possible and can be applied to statistical analyses of the alignment of mw satellite galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , the known sample of faint dwarf galaxies is radially biased . due to such galaxies very low luminosity and surface brightness , current surveys",
    "can only discover these objects nearby , instead of within the whole mw halo @xcite .",
    "the inclusion of faint mw satellite galaxies in a measure of the satellite plane flattening thus introduces biases whose effect on the resulting values for axis ratios and plane height are difficult to evaluate , questioning their use as reliable probes of the overall phase - space correlation of the mw satellite system .",
    "when @xcite measure the spatial flattening of the mw satellite system , they do not attempt to consider the effects of mw disk obscuration , survey footprints , or radial biasing of faint satellite galaxies . as such , it is therefore more than questionable whether the sheer increase in the number of tracers used to measure the satellite system s flattening actually provides more information on the satellite distribution than on the underlying survey strategies .",
    "the points on survey footprints and radial biases also apply to @xcite , where the authors compare the results of their simulation with the observed mw satellite system .",
    "however , in addition the compared volumes are substantially different : large portions of the @xcite analysis focus on a volume of 1mpc in radius  ( with @xmath15 ) , or that the virial radius of the host galaxy is smaller than reported . in the figure , the shown circle indicating the host s virial radius has a radius of about one third of the distance to the 0.5 mpc tick mark , which would correspond to a virial radius of 167kpc instead of the reported @xmath16 .",
    "this is curiously close to @xmath17 .",
    "] , while @xcite concentrates on the virial radius of the mw , which for their simulation they give as 240kpc .",
    "thus the compared volumes are almost two orders of magnitude different . in this regard",
    ", the two volumes thus trace very different regimes , for example it is no surprise that at 1mpc the existence of filamentary structures result in smaller c / a values .",
    "differences between the simulation and the observed mw satellite distribution are thus less dominated by sample sizes , but rather by probing entirely very different structures .",
    "when they restrict the satellite sample to smaller numbers and the virial volume , @xcite find less narrow distributions than observed , in line with previous results based on dark matter only simulations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "as already discussed in sect . [ subsect : significance ] , it can be very instructive to use isotropic distributions as a benchmark to develop an expectation that allows to identify if simulations contain new correlations or behaviour .",
    "such a comparison is also lacking in @xcite , making it difficult to judge whether the reported fractions of kinematically aligned dwarf galaxies are indicative of additional coherence beyond of mere isotropy .",
    "for example , the authors define a dwarf galaxy as moving in the plane of satellites if its 3d velocity vector aligns to within @xmath7  or less with the plane . according to this criterion",
    ", a satellite on an orbit perpendicular to the plane and currently at its most distant point from the plane ( thus moving in a direction parallel with the plane ) is kinematically aligned .",
    "the criterion employed by @xcite thus considers only the 3-d velocities , while it completely ignores the positions , which makes it so weak that the vast majority of the satellites fulfil it even in the case of complete isotropy .",
    "@xcite report that 77 of the 106 luminous dwarfs in their simulation ( using all dwarfs out to 1mpc , see criticism in sect .",
    "[ sect : biases ] above ) fulfil their kinematic alignment criterion .",
    "note , however , that the histogram in their figure 7 , while referred to as showing that 77 out of 106 simulated dwarfs have velocities within @xmath7  of the best - fit plane , only contains a total of 77 data points , not 106 .",
    "if we nevertheless assume that the text is correct , this results in 73 per cent alignment . while @xcite do not provide any means to judge whether this is a large , small , or modest alignment , we can calculate the expected fraction for an isotropic distribution of velocity vectors .",
    "the fraction of isotropic directions which align to within an angle @xmath18  with any given plane is @xmath19 .",
    "thus , for @xmath20  we expect 71 per cent of the vectors to align . _",
    "_ this is fully consistent with the fraction found by @xcite , indicating that this measure reveals no evidence that the simulation results in an increased kinematic alignment of dwarf galaxies compared to an isotropic model _ _  from the best - fit plane , vs. 56 with more closely aligned velocity vectors .",
    "these numbers again give 73 per cent of satellites with velocities within @xmath7  of the best - fit plane , which again is fully consistent with the expected fraction from an isotropic sample . ] .",
    "@xcite continue by counting the number of simulated satellites which have an orbital pole aligned to @xmath7  or better with the normal vector of the plane fitted to the satellite positions .",
    "out of the 77 satellites they find 18 to be co- and 19 to be counter - rotating . for an isotropic distribution of orbital poles ,",
    "a fraction of @xmath21  of poles will align to an angle better than @xmath22  with the normal vector of any given plane . for @xmath23 ,",
    "this corresponds to 29 per cent .",
    "@xcite report 18 + 19 = 37 out of a total of 77 , which is 48 per cent and thus appears high . however , the 77 are allegedly selected out of a total of 106 for having velocity vectors within @xmath7  of the satellite plane .",
    "conversely , this implies that the remaining 106 - 77 = 29 can not have an orbital pole closer than @xmath7  to the satellite plane normal : a dwarf galaxy s orbital pole is always perpendicular to the velocity vector , if the latter has an angle of more than @xmath7  from a plane , every vector perpendicular to it will always be within @xmath7  of the plane , or more than @xmath7  from the plane normal .",
    "thus , the fraction to compare to an isotropic model is rather 37/106 , or 35 per cent , which is only slightly higher than the isotropic expectation , offset in the direction expected for the position - dependent plane orientation , and within the expected variation from standard poisson errors ( @xmath24 , corresponding to a range in the fraction from 29 to 41 per cent . ) .",
    "it is interesting to note that the observed mw system is inconsistent with these numbers , with at least six ( possibly eight within their uncertainties , see sect .",
    "[ subsect : significance ] ) of the 11 classical satellites having co - orbiting orbital poles within @xmath7  of the dos plane normal , plus one counter - orbiting ( i.e. 64 to 81 per cent fulfilling their criterion ) .",
    "nevertheless , @xcite then seem to argue that the lack of a kinematic coherence in their simulation suggests that the observed dos does not have a coherent rotation .",
    "this is a false conclusion , because the results of a simulation can not trump existing observational data when it comes to the nature of a system that is observed in reality .",
    "finally , it should be emphasized that the simulation results of @xcite are based on a single host halo and therefore lack statistical significance .",
    "furthermore , no information has been provided on whether that halo s central galaxy , its environment or local cosmography have any resemblance with the mw ( e.g. motion along a filament towards virgo , evacuation from the local void , group configuration with m31 ) .",
    "in summary , we find that the contributions by @xcite lack the necessary analyses to come to meaningful conclusions on the existence of the dos and on its kinematic correlation . a statistical foundation and measurements of the significance of presented results are missing in their contributions . had these been carried out , they would in all likelihood have pointed to the opposite of the authors claims .",
    "the measurement errors for the mw satellite galaxy proper motions , as well as the uncertain nature of the mw potential , have not been taken into consideration .",
    "the effect of satellite sample size on the flattening of a satellite system is not a novel finding but has been demonstrated and discussed in past publications ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and it does not imply that the dos might be an effect of small sample size .",
    "the influence of observational biases was ignored , and the structure of mw satellite galaxies was inappropriately compared to that of simulated dwarf galaxies drawn from a much larger volume .",
    "we therefore strongly reject the suggestion that the observed dos might be `` a misinterpretation of the data '' .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through hubble fellowship grant # hst - hf2 - 51379.001-a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas5 - 26555 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in two recent arxiv postings , maji et al . argue against the existence of a spatially thin , kinematically coherent disk of satellites ( dos ) around the milky way ( mw ) , and suggest that the dos is `` maybe a misinterpretation of the data '' . </S>",
    "<S> these claims are in stark contrast to previous works , and indeed we show that the conclusions of maji et al </S>",
    "<S> .  do not hold up to scrutiny . </S>",
    "<S> they lack a statistical basis since no attempts have been made to measure the significance of the found satellite alignments , observational biases have been ignored , and measurement errors such as for proper motions have not been considered . </S>",
    "<S> when interpreting their hydrodynamic cosmological simulation by comparing it with an alternative model of isotropically distributed satellite velocities , we find no evidence for a significant kinematic coherence among the simulated satellite galaxies , in contrast to the observed mw system . </S>",
    "<S> we furthermore discuss general problems faced by attempts to determine the dynamical stability of the dos via orbit integrations of mw satellite galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> hubble fellow ] </S>"
  ]
}