{
  "article_text": [
    "synchronization phenomena are collective behaviors emerging in dynamical systems , which are widely observed in physics , chemistry , biology , and social science @xcite .",
    "synchronization in systems of coupled oscillators has been extensively investigated theoretically .",
    "for example , the kuramoto model @xcite is a successful prototype in studies of synchronization .",
    "the kuramoto model and its variants have been studied for decades and have been found to exhibit a continuous ( second - order ) phase transition from incoherence to synchrony @xcite .",
    "however , recent works reveal that a discontinuous ( first - order ) synchronization transition could also occur in some generalized kuramoto models @xcite ; for example , the kuramoto model in a scale - free ( sf ) network @xcite and a star network @xcite , the frequency - weighted kuramoto model @xcite , the kuramoto model in adaptive and multilayer networks @xcite , and the kuramoto model with both conformists and contrarians @xcite .",
    "in particular , the frequency - weighted kuramoto model has been intensively investigated under various frequency distributions , including unimodal distributions ( lorentzian , gaussian , and triangular ) @xcite , the half - gaussian distribution @xcite , asymmetric unimodal distributions ( lorentzian , gaussian , triangular , and rayleigh ) @xcite , and the bimodal distribution @xcite . nevertheless , for the most simple frequency distribution , i.e. , the uniform distribution , a thorough study of both the bifurcation diagram and the possible coherent states is still lacking .",
    "for this purpose , in this work , we focus on the first - order synchronization ( i.e. , explosive synchronization ) transitions in a frequency - weighted kuramoto model with a uniform frequency distribution .",
    "we obtain two main results via both theoretical and numerical studies .",
    "first , a detailed bifurcation diagram is plotted .",
    "interestingly , it shows that as the coupling strength increases / decreases , the system successively undergoes two first - order transitions toward synchronization / incoherence , which are typically characterized by hysteresis loops when both forward and backward transitions are considered .",
    "second , we identify three asymptotic states to which the long - term dynamics of the system evolves , i.e. , the incoherent state , the nontrivial standing wave ( nsw ) state ( see detailed description below ) , and the phase - locked state .",
    "remarkably , in the nsw state , the synchronous oscillators split into two clusters , which are always counter - rotating , just as in the usual standing wave state .",
    "however , in these coherent clusters , the instantaneous frequencies of the oscillators are not the same . instead , their average frequencies are equal to constant values .",
    "this nsw state , in fact , is a type of nonstationary coherent state in a coupled oscillator system . here ,",
    "`` nonstationary '' means that in this state , the probability density function of the oscillators is time - dependent . through linear stability analysis , we analytically obtain the critical coupling strength at which the system bifurcates from the incoherent state to the nsw state . in addition , the bifurcation boundaries between the three asymptotic states are identified numerically .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in sec .",
    "ii , we briefly introduce the frequency - weighted kuramoto model with a uniform frequency distribution . in sec .",
    "iii , we discuss the bifurcation diagram and characterize the nsw state in detail . sec .",
    "iv discusses the linear stability of the incoherent state .",
    "finally , we summarize our work in sec . v.",
    "in the frequency - weighted kuramoto model @xcite , @xmath0 phase oscillators are governed by the following dynamical equation : @xmath1 where @xmath2 and @xmath3 are the phase and natural frequency of the @xmath4th oscillator , respectively .",
    "the dot denotes a time derivative , and @xmath5 is the global coupling strength .",
    "the most important characteristic of this model is that the @xmath4th oscillator is coupled to the mean field via the effective coupling strength @xmath6 , which is proportional to the magnitude of its natural frequency . in the mean - field approximation , this model is equivalent to the classical kuramoto model in a sf network @xcite .    typically , the natural frequencies of oscillators in kuramoto - like models are drawn from a certain distribution @xmath7 . as mentioned above ,",
    "this model has been studied under various frequency distributions other than the simple uniform distribution to date .",
    "therefore , in this work , we investigate this system when the natural frequencies satisfy the following uniform distribution : @xmath8 without loss of generality , we take @xmath9 in the frequency distribution in this work .    in order to characterize the degree of phase coherence in the model , an order parameter can be defined as @xmath10 where @xmath11 and @xmath12 are the module and argument of the mean field , respectively .",
    "geometrically , the complex order parameter can be regarded as a vector on the complex plane . by definition",
    ", @xmath11 is between 0 and 1 .",
    "typically , @xmath13 indicates a totally random phase distribution , i.e. , the incoherent state , whereas @xmath14 indicates a ( partially ) phase - locked state , i.e. , the coherent or synchronized state .",
    "as the system becomes more coherent , @xmath11 will gradually approach 1 .    in this work ,",
    "coupled ordinary differential equations are numerically integrated using the fourth - order runge ",
    "kutta method with a time step of 0.01 .",
    "the initial conditions for the phase variables are random . typically , the total number of oscillators is @xmath0 = 10,000 .",
    "we explore both the forward and backward transitions adiabatically to test whether hysteresis exists in the synchronization transitions . for each control parameter",
    ", the order parameter is averaged in a time window after the transient stage .",
    "such numerical schemes are adopted throughout this paper .",
    "we first study the bifurcation diagram of model ( [ eq : model ] ) with a uniform frequency distribution .",
    "the results of extensive numerical simulations are summarized in fig .",
    "specifically , we observed three types of asymptotic states : the incoherent state , nsw state , and phase - locked state .",
    "interestingly , as the coupling strength increases , we find two first - order phase transitions [ fig . 1 ] .",
    "the first is from the incoherent state to the nsw state , and the second is from the nsw state to the phase - locked state .",
    "inversely , when the system starts from the coherent state and as the coupling strength decreases , it also experiences two first - order phase transitions . however , the bifurcation points are smaller than those of the forward transitions .",
    "we use @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , and @xmath18 to denote the critical points . here the subscripts @xmath19 and @xmath20 denote the forward and backward critical points , respectively , for the first transition , and @xmath21 and @xmath22 are those for the second transition .",
    "numerically , they are identified as @xmath23 , @xmath24 , @xmath25 , and @xmath26 .",
    "thus , the bifurcation diagram can be divided into five parameter regimes as follows : ( i ) @xmath27 , where only the incoherent state is stable ; ( ii ) @xmath28 , where both the incoherent state and the nsw state are stable ; ( iii ) @xmath29 , where only the nsw state is stable ; ( iv ) @xmath30 , where both the nsw state and the phase - locked state are stable ; and ( v ) @xmath31 , where only the phase - locked state is stable .",
    "these five parameter regimes are clearly shown in fig .",
    "we now investigate the asymptotic states in model ( [ eq : model ] ) with a uniform frequency distribution .",
    "the long - term dynamics of the system are found to evolve to one of three states : the incoherent state , nsw state , or phase - locked state . in the following ,",
    "we take the forward transition process as an example for description .",
    "when the coupling strength is below the critical point @xmath15 , all the oscillators are desynchronized .",
    "this incoherent state is shown in fig .",
    "when @xmath32 , the system evolves to a new nsw state .",
    "2(b ) and ( c ) demonstrate two such examples at @xmath33 and @xmath34 , respectively .",
    "in these states , the oscillators in the system have been only partially entrained .",
    "the coherent oscillators split into two groups corresponding to the positive and negative natural frequencies , respectively .",
    "they coexist with the drifting ( desynchronized ) ones .",
    "these two coherent clusters counter - rotate along the unit circle .",
    "overall , this scenario resembles the normal sw state @xcite .",
    "interestingly , however , this nsw state differs essentially from the normal sw state , in which the oscillators within each cluster are frequency - locked .",
    "a careful examination of the nsw state reveals that the oscillators in the coherent clusters are not frequency - locked ; i.e. , their instantaneous frequencies are not the same .",
    "this novel property can be clearly seen in figs .",
    "2(b3 ) and ( c3 ) , where the snapshots show that the instantaneous frequencies inside either coherent cluster are not locked .",
    "however , they are correlated in a certain way such that , surprisingly , the average frequencies are locked to a constant .",
    "these important characteristics can be immediately seen by comparing the smooth cusped patterns in figs .",
    "2(b3 ) and ( c3 ) with the staircase structures in figs .",
    "2(b2 ) and ( c2 ) .        in fig .",
    "3 , we further characterize the typical nsw state corresponding to fig .",
    "2(b ) from both macroscopic and microscopic perspectives . as the instantaneous frequency characterizes the rotations of the oscillators along the unit circle , the system exhibits a very interesting collective motion of the oscillators . fig .",
    "3(a ) shows two snapshots of the instantaneous phase distributions .",
    "the system clearly splits into two symmetric groups that are counter - rotating .",
    "furthermore , the shapes of the instantaneous phase distributions change continuously within one period .",
    "this implies that the oscillators inside one coherent cluster are correlated in a complicated way , rather than simply being frequency - locked . in the latter case ,",
    "i.e. , the usual sw state , the oscillators inside one coherent cluster behave like a giant cluster , and the phase distribution does not change its shape but keeps moving as a whole .",
    "3(b1 ) , we show that the instantaneous frequencies of oscillators inside the same cluster evolve periodically , but different oscillators follow different periodic patterns . in other words ,",
    "the instantaneous rotational speed of each oscillator varies uniquely with time .",
    "this characteristic can also be seen in fig .",
    "3(b2 ) , where the evolutions of the instantaneous phases corresponding to fig .",
    "3(b1 ) are plotted .",
    "this novel feature makes the observed nsw state essentially different from the usual sw states previously reported in kuramoto - like models , in which oscillators are typically frequency - locked inside the coherent cluster @xcite . in brief",
    ", it is the average frequencies rather than the instantaneous frequencies that are locked in this nsw state .",
    "the order parameters for the coherent clusters collectively exhibit complicated orbits in phase space , as shown in fig .",
    "the amplitude of the overall order parameter oscillates nearly periodically with time [ fig .",
    "3(d1 ) ] . in addition",
    ", its phase is found to be approximately binary during its evolution [ fig .",
    "3(d2 ) ] .",
    "we emphasize that during the backward transition , the nsw state can also be observed when @xmath35 . as the coupling strength decreases , the system first jumps into the nsw state from the coherent state and then jumps into the incoherent state when @xmath5 is below @xmath17 .",
    "note that the above results are based on numerical studies of a specific system with size @xmath36 .",
    "in fact , we have conducted extensive simulations with different system sizes , for example , @xmath37 and @xmath38 .",
    "we found that the size effect could change the bifurcation points slightly , particularly the forward ones .",
    "nevertheless , the entire bifurcation diagram is qualitatively the same .",
    "from a theoretical viewpoint , it is desirable to solve the critical coupling strength for the system in the thermodynamic limit . recently , a method based on the ott  antonsen ( oa ) ansatz was successfully used for this purpose in many systems @xcite .",
    "it can effectively reduce the dynamics of coupled oscillators to a low - dimensional manifold and thus , greatly facilitate the analysis .",
    "however , the use of the oa method depends on several conditions . in particular",
    ", it requires analytical continuation . in the frequency - weighted model , i.e. , eq .",
    "( [ eq : model ] ) , there is a term of absolute value @xmath39 , which hinders analytical continuation when the oa method is applied .",
    ", the oa method has failed to treat this model to date . in the following , we turn to the traditional method of linear stability analysis .    in order to obtain the critical coupling strength @xmath15 for the synchronization transition in model ( [ eq : model ] ) , we perform linear stability analysis of the incoherent state . in the mean - field form ,",
    "( [ eq : model ] ) can be written as @xmath40 where @xmath11 and @xmath12 are the order parameters defined in eq .",
    "( [ eq : order ] ) . following the analysis in refs .",
    "@xcite , the critical equation relating the coupling strength @xmath5 and the eigenvalue @xmath41 is @xcite @xmath42 substituting the uniform distribution of eq .",
    "( 2 ) into the integration of eq . ( 5 ) , we get @xmath43 then eq . ( 5 ) becomes @xmath44 when @xmath41 crosses the imaginary axis , the incoherent state loses its stability .",
    "thus , setting @xmath45 , we have @xmath46 if @xmath47 , @xmath48 is a pure imaginary number .",
    "thus , eq . ( 7 ) has no solution because its left - hand side is real . if @xmath49 , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 .",
    "we have @xmath52 combining eq .",
    "( 7 ) with eq .",
    "( 9 ) , we obtain @xmath53 from eq .",
    "( 10 ) , @xmath54 has a nontrivial solution @xmath55 , which leads to the critical coupling strength @xmath56 the above analysis reveals that @xmath15 is independent of the width of the uniform distribution .",
    "physically , this arises from the properties of the frequency - weighted model . as shown in eq .",
    "( 4 ) , the effective coupling strength for an oscillator interacting with the mean field is proportional to its frequency .",
    "thus , the influence of the natural frequency is balanced by the effective coupling strength .    moreover , according to ref .",
    "@xcite , the critical coupling strength @xmath18 is universal , regardless of the details of specific frequency distributions . for a symmetric unimodal frequency distribution , @xmath57 still holds . during the backward transition , the system bifurcates from the phase - locked state to the nsw state at this point .",
    "note that we can not yet provide a suitable description of the nsw state .",
    "therefore , it is difficult to obtain the other two bifurcation points , @xmath16 and @xmath17 , by applying linear stability analysis to the nsw state .",
    "we studied explosive synchronization in a frequency - weighted kuramoto model with a uniform frequency distribution .",
    "numerical simulations and theoretical analysis revealed that the system exhibits two first - order transitions in both the forward and backward directions . in these transitions , the system bifurcates among three asymptotic states : the incoherent state , nsw state , and phase - locked state . among them , the nsw state , a new coherent state in this model , was further characterized . in the coherent clusters in this state , it is the average frequencies rather than the instantaneous frequencies of the oscillators that are locked .",
    "physically , the nsw state is a weaker coherence ( compared with the phase - locked state ) achieved by the coupled oscillators when the coupling strength is in the intermediate regime .",
    "it is between the incoherent state ( full asynchrony ) and the phase - locked state ( full synchrony ) and thus exhibits remarkable dynamical properties .",
    "recently , a quantized , time - dependent clustered state , called the bellerophon state , was revealed in globally coupled oscillators @xcite .",
    "the nsw state reported in this paper can be classified as a special type of bellerophon state in which only two coherent clusters coexist .",
    "these results are helpful for understanding the complicated collective behavior in generalized kuramoto models .",
    "h. hong , s. h. strogatz , kuramoto model of coupled oscillators with positive and negative coupling parameters : an example of conformist and contrarian oscillators , _ phys .",
    "lett . _ 106(5 ) , 054102 ( 2011 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> synchronization in a frequency - weighted kuramoto model with a uniform frequency distribution is studied . </S>",
    "<S> we plot the bifurcation diagram and identify the asymptotic coherent states . </S>",
    "<S> numerical simulations show that the system undergoes two first - order transitions in both the forward and backward directions . apart from the trivial phase - locked state , a novel nonstationary coherent state , i.e. </S>",
    "<S> , a nontrivial standing wave state is observed and characterized . in this state , oscillators inside the coherent clusters are not frequency - locked as they would be in the usual standing wave state . instead </S>",
    "<S> , their average frequencies are locked to a constant . </S>",
    "<S> the critical coupling strength from the incoherent state to the nontrivial standing wave state can be obtained by performing linear stability analysis . </S>",
    "<S> the theoretical results are supported by the numerical simulations . </S>",
    "<S> + keywords : synchronization ; kuramoto model ; nonstationary </S>"
  ]
}