{
  "article_text": [
    "four decades ago , in a rather startling discovery , it was found that 11 bright satellite galaxies of the milky way align in a plane inclined to the galactic stellar disk @xcite , a phenomenon later dubbed as  disk of satellites \" ( dos ) @xcite .",
    "recently , it was reported that 8 of the 11 satellites co - rotate in the dos @xcite .",
    "numerical simulations with the standard lambda cold dark matter ( @xmath0cdm ) model have been largely unsuccessful to reproduce such a spatially - thin , kinematically - coherent structure which been strongly criticized as a failure of the @xmath0cdm cosmology @xcite .    to date ,",
    "more than three dozens of dwarf galaxies have been detected around the milky way @xcite , and it was suggested that all satellites lie in the original dos formed by the 11 classical satellites @xcite .",
    "more intriguingly , it was recently reported that about half of the satellites in andromeda ( 15 out of 27 ) form a dos around that galaxy @xcite , and that 13 out of the 15 co - planar satellites co - rotate based on line - of - sight velocities @xcite . outside of the local group , one study @xcite found 22 galaxies in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) catalog which have diametrically opposed satellite pairs with anti - correlated velocities , and the authors suggested that co - planar and co - rotating dos is common in the universe .",
    "the origin of the dos , however , has remained an unsolved mystery .",
    "on one hand , many advanced @xmath0cdm simulations have failed to produce such a thin , co - rotating dos in galaxies .",
    "while some sophisticated simulations have managed to produce anisotropic distribution of satellites @xcite , no consensus of coherent motion was found in the dos @xcite .    on the other hand ,",
    "the interpretation of dos from observations has been called into question .",
    "@xcite demonstrated that line - of - sight velocities are not representative of the full 3-d velocity of a galaxy and can not be used to derive coherent motion in andromeda satellites .",
    "furthermore , recent investigations of the sdss galaxies found that the excess of pairs of anti - correlated galaxies is very sensitive to sample selection and it is consistent with the random noise corresponding to an under - sampling of the data @xcite .    in order to resolve the controversies surrounding the dos , we reanalyze the observed satellites of the milky way and compare them with advanced simulations by considering three important issues : ( 1 ) the plane identification method , ( 2 ) the sample size of satellites , and ( 3 ) the position - momentum phase - space distribution of satellites .    the paper is organized as follows . in @xmath1",
    "we introduce the methods used in this study for analyzing the satellite positions at present and predicting their motions in the future , and the cosmological simulations , with and without baryons , of a milky way - like galaxy that we have compared to the observational results .",
    "we present our findings in @xmath2 ; in particular , we reanalyze the observed satellites using different sample sizes and plane identification methods in @xmath3 , we discuss the dynamical evolution of the observed 11 classical satellites in @xmath4 and in @xmath5 we investigate the evolution of dos anisotropy in the cosmological simulations .",
    "we discuss the implications of our results and summarize our findings in @xmath6 .",
    "we have used two types of techniques to analyze the present distribution of the positions of the observed satellites around the milky way , which are principal component analysis ( pca ) and tensor of inertia ( toi ) .",
    "pca is a commonly used method in statistics where a given dataset is explored for linear relationships between the variables and then simplified by reducing the dimensionality of the data . for our specific case of 3d positional data , pca can be though of a fitting an ellipsoid to the data , where the ratio of minor and major axis ( @xmath7 ) indicates the anisotropy of the dwarf distribution . if the distribution of the dwarfs is perfectly planar , then @xmath8 . in the toi method , which is often used in literature @xcite ,",
    "we calculate the moment of inertia matrix of the satellites and diagonalize it .",
    "the eigenvalues of this matrix gives the three axes ( @xmath9 ) of the fitted ellipsoid to the dwarf distribution .",
    "it has been argued that distant dwarfs in this distribution have a greater chance of being outliers , hence they should carry less weight in the toi calculations .",
    "here we considered three different weights for satellite distances , namely @xmath10 and @xmath11 , respectively , as used by different groups in literature @xcite .",
    "we discuss these methods in more detail in a companion paper ( maji et al .",
    "2017 , in prep ) .",
    "in addition , in order to predict the future position and velocity of the observed 11 classical satellites , we have used the galaxy dynamics software galpy @xcite .",
    "galpy is a software toolbox that performs orbit integration and computes the positions of satellite galaxies at later times given their current positions and velocities and the potential of the host galaxy .    in this modeling",
    "we assume a realistic milky way potential model known as mw2014 @xcite , which is a composite of three components : a power - law density profile for the bulge at the center with a cut - off at 1.9 kpc , a miyamoto - nagai potential @xcite for the stellar disk and a navarro - frenk - white @xcite density profile for the dark matter halo .",
    "we take the initial position and velocities in galactic coordinates from @xcite and convert them into galactocentric rectangular coordinates using the coordinate transformation techniques discussed by @xcite .",
    "finally , we analyzed a hydrodynamical cosmological simulation of milky way @xcite and its dark matter only counterpart @xcite to understand the origin of the dos .",
    "the simulations were performed using the moving - mesh code arepo @xcite .",
    "the hydrodynamical simulation has detailed baryonic physics , including a two - phase ism , star formation , metal cooling and stellar and agn feedback .",
    "the dwarf galaxies ( subhalos ) in the simulations were identified using the amiga halo finder @xcite , a density - based group finder algorithm .",
    "we refer the reader to the original papers for more details on the simulations .",
    "( @xmath12 means completely anisotropic planar distribution ) ; and  thickness \" ( _ bottom _ ) as indicated by the root - mean - square height of the fitted plane .",
    "the plane fitting methods include pca and toi with different weight function .",
    "the complete sample includes 39 confirmed satellites of the milky way @xcite . , title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=49.0% ] +    ( @xmath12 means completely anisotropic planar distribution ) ; and  thickness \" ( _ bottom _ ) as indicated by the root - mean - square height of the fitted plane .",
    "the plane fitting methods include pca and toi with different weight function .",
    "the complete sample includes 39 confirmed satellites of the milky way @xcite .",
    ", title=\"fig:\",scaledwidth=49.0% ]    a comparison of the dos structure using different plane identification methods pca and toi as discussed in @xmath1 and different sample sizes is illustrated in figure  [ fig : ca_obs ] .",
    "the sample of 39 currently confirmed dwarfs of the milky way @xcite includes the 11 classical satellites @xcite and the 27 most massive nearby ones in previous analysis @xcite .",
    "clearly , when the satellite number increases from the original 11 to the full sample of 39 , the  isotropy \" of the dos ( represented by the ratio between semi - minor and semi - major axes of the principal components , @xmath7 ) increases from @xmath13 to @xmath14 using the pca and unweighted toi methods , and the  thickness \" of the dos ( represented by the root - mean - square height of the fitted plane ) increases rapidly from @xmath15 kpc to @xmath16 kpc .",
    "for a weighted toi with @xmath11 typically used in the analysis of cosmological simulations @xcite , the dos becomes significantly more isotropic and thicker .",
    "this figure demonstrates that the dos structure is strongly subjected to selection effects , which explains the different claims reported in the literature using different methods and sample sizes @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the position",
    " angular momentum distribution of the 11 classical satellites with positions and proper motion measurements @xcite , as presented in figure  [ fig : aitoff ] , does not show a clear coherent motion in the dos . instead of the frequently claimed eight or nine @xcite , only 6 satellites , namely draco , umi , smc , fornax , leo ii and lmc , may be considered as corotating since their angular momenta fall within 45 degrees of the dos normal .",
    "however , given the large uncertainties in these proper motion measurements and the fact that these 6 satellites are located in different orbital planes , they are likely not kinematically coupled .",
    "moreover , the remaining 5 satellites ( @xmath17 ) do not show circular motion in the dos , suggesting that the dos is not rotationally supported as claimed in previous studies @xcite .      in order to investigate the stability of the present dos",
    ", we use the galactic dynamics software galpy @xcite to predict the future trajectories of the 11 classical satellites .",
    "figure  [ fig : future ] shows the predicted positions of these satellites at three different times : at the present day and 1 gyr and 5 gyrs from now respectively .",
    "it is clear that after 5 gyrs , all but 2 satellites ( carina and fornax ) are moving away from the present dos .",
    "this suggests that the current thin dos is a transient structure .      , at different times between baryonic ( hydro , _ red _ ) and dark matter - only ( dmo , _ black _ ) cosmological simulations of a milky way - sized galaxy .",
    "we consider three satellite samples : all dwarfs within 1 mpc from the central galaxy ( solid lines ) , all dwarfs within the virial radius ( @xmath18 ) of the central galaxy ( dashed lines ) and the 11 most massive dwarfs within the virial radius ( dotted lines ) .",
    "the large fluctuations in the red dashed curve may be caused by the fluctuation in the dwarf abundance due to baryonic processes .",
    "all distances are in comoving coordinates .",
    ", scaledwidth=50.0% ]    finally , in order to understand the nature and the origin of the dos , we analyze a state - of - the - art hydrodynamical cosmological simulation of a milky way - sized galaxy @xcite and compare it to its n - body counterpart .",
    "we find that baryons significantly affect the abundance and spatial distribution of satellites ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "for example , within 1 mpc , only @xmath19 luminous suhalos are found in the baryonic simulation and they are distributed anisotropically , in sharp contrast to the @xmath20 subhalos which show isotropic distribution in the dark matter only simulation .    figure  [ fig : dmo_bar_11 ] shows the isotropy ratio @xmath7 of both simulations as a function of redshift for three samples : all dwarfs within the virial radius ( @xmath18 ) of the central galaxy , the 11 most massive dwarfs within the virial radius ( which have a similar mass range as the observed 11 `` classical '' satellites of the milky way ) , and all dwarfs within 1 mpc from the galaxy .",
    "these groups show three distinct trends in the evolution of @xmath7 . for all dwarfs within @xmath18 , the @xmath7 ratio generally increases as redshift approaches @xmath21 for both simulations , mainly due to the rising abundance of dwarfs within the virial radius and phase mixing @xcite .",
    "the satellite infall near the center can be chaotic and even if some satellites are accreted as a group from similar directions , as they move through the galactic potential , the neighboring satellites in phase - space can become out of phase with time , resulting in a smooth phase - space distribution of satellites .",
    "this phase mixing is more effective for satellites closer to the center @xcite , which may explain the increased @xmath7 inside @xmath18 .",
    "however , when we select only the 11 most massive halos within the virial radius , the two simulations show similar highly anisotropic distribution throughout time , and at @xmath21 the @xmath7 ratio is close to the observed value ( @xmath22 ) .",
    "these results suggest that the thin nearby dos often reported in literature may be a selection effect .    when we consider dwarfs out to a further distance of 1  mpc from the central galaxy , we find significant differences between the two simulations .",
    "at high redshift ( @xmath23 ) both satellite distributions are almost isotropic but over time the c / a ratio of both simulations decreases , although the drop off is much more significant in the hydrodynamical simulation ( @xmath24 at @xmath21 ) compared to the n - body one ( @xmath25 at @xmath21 ) .",
    "the different distribution between the two simulations can be explained by the dramatic difference in the satellite abundance , as also suggested by recent studies @xcite .",
    "when we probe the c / a ratio in the baryonic simulation out to further distances ( few mpc ) , we find that both axes ratio ( b / a and c / a ) continue to decrease which suggest that the anisotropic dwarf distribution may be part of the large scale filamentary structure . we discuss this in more detail in a companion paper ( maji et al .",
    "2017 , in prep ) .",
    "detailed baryonic processes such as adiabatic contraction , reionization , and tidal destruction can significantly change the abundance , star formation activity , infall time , and trajectory of the satellites @xcite .",
    "such baryonic impacts may be the key to solving the discrepancy in the dos anisotropy from previous simulations @xcite .",
    "our results suggest that on mega - parsec scales , the distribution of dwarfs around a central galaxy is anisotropic as part of the large - scale - filamentary structure .    in summary , our re - analysis of the observed dwarfs of the milky way shows that the properties of the satellite system depend strongly on the plane identification method and the sample size , and it argues against the previous claims of a spatially - thin , kinematically - coherent dos in our galaxy .",
    "furthermore , by comparing a hydrodynamical @xmath0cdm cosmological simulation of a milky way - sized galaxy that includes comprehensive baryonic physics with its n - body counterpart , we find that baryonic processes play an important role in determining the anisotropic distribution of satellites .",
    "these results have important implications on the current debates of dos in other galaxies as well .",
    "we caution against claims of ultra - thin , coherently - rotating dos in andromeda using a small fraction of the detected satellites @xcite and line - of - sight velocities @xcite .",
    "our findings suggest that the spatial distribution and kinematic properties of satellites are probably determined by the assembly history and dynamical evolution of each individual galaxy system , rather than being a universal dos phenomenon .                          , r.  a. , lewis , g.  f. , conn , a.  r. , irwin , m.  j. , mcconnachie , a.  w. , chapman , s.  c. , collins , m.  l. , fardal , m. , ferguson , a.  m.  n. , ibata , n.  g. , mackey , a.  d. , martin , n.  f. , navarro , j. , rich , r.  m. , valls - gabaud , d. , & widrow , l.  m. 2013 , , 493 , 62                  , a.  w. , irwin , m.  j. , ibata , r.  a. , dubinski , j. , widrow , l.  m. , martin , n.  f. , ct , p. , dotter , a.  l. , navarro , j.  f. , ferguson , a.  m.  n. , puzia , t.  h. , lewis , g.  f. , babul , a. , barmby , p. , bienaym , o. , chapman , s.  c. , cockcroft , r. , collins , m.  l.  m. , fardal , m.  a. , harris , w.  e. , huxor , a. , mackey , a.  d. , pearrubia , j. , rich , r.  m. , richer , h.  b. , siebert , a. , tanvir , n. , valls - gabaud , d. , & venn , k.  a. 2009 , , 461 , 66                    , t. , frenk , c.  s. , fattahi , a. , navarro , j.  f. , bower , r.  g. , crain , r.  a. , dalla vecchia , c. , furlong , m. , helly , j.  c. , jenkins , a. , oman , k.  a. , schaller , m. , schaye , j. , theuns , t. , trayford , j. , & white , s.  d.  m. 2016 , , 457 , 1931"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the  disk of satellites \" ( dos ) around milky way is a highly debated topic with conflicting interpretations of observations and their theoretical models . here </S>",
    "<S> we perform a comprehensive analysis of all dwarfs detected in the milky way and we find that the dos structure depends strongly on the plane identification method and the sample size . moreover , no clear coherent motion is found in the position - momentum phase - space of the satellites , and the thin dos of the 11 classical satellites appears to be transient . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , by comparing @xmath0cdm cosmological simulations of a milky way - sized galaxy with and without baryons , we find that the hydrodynamic simulation produces more anisotropic distribution of satellites than its n - body counterpart . we conclude that an anisotropic distribution of satellites in galaxies can originate from baryonic processes in the hierarchical structure formation model , but the claimed highly - flattened , coherently - rotating dos of the milky way is likely a small - number selection effect and maybe a misinterpretation of the data . </S>",
    "<S> our results may help resolve the contradictory claims of dos in other galaxies and the discrepancy among numerical simulations . </S>"
  ]
}