{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , fifth generation ( 5 g ) wireless networks have attracted extensive research interest . according to the 3rd generation partnership project ( 3gpp )  @xcite",
    ", 5 g networks should support three major families of applications , including enhanced mobile broadband ( embb ) @xcite ; massive machine type communications ( mmtc )  @xcite ; and ultra - reliable and low - latency communications ( urllc )  @xcite . on top of this , enhanced vehicle - to - everything ( ev2x ) communications are also considered as an important service that should be supported by 5 g networks  @xcite .",
    "these scenarios require massive connectivity with high system throughput and improved spectral efficiency ( se ) and impose significant challenges to the design of general 5 g networks . in order to meet these new requirements , new modulation and multiple access ( ma )",
    "schemes are being explored .",
    "orthogonal frequency division multiplexing ( ofdm ) @xcite has been adopted in fourth generation ( 4 g ) networks . with an appropriate cyclic prefix ( cp ) , ofdm is able to combat the delay spread of wireless channels with simple detection methods , which makes it a popular solution for current broadband transmission .",
    "however , traditional ofdm is unable to meet many new demands required for 5 g networks .",
    "for example , in the mmtc scenario @xcite , sensor nodes usually transmit different types of data asynchronously in narrow bands while ofdm requires different users to be highly synchronized , otherwise there will be large interference among adjacent subbands .",
    "to address the new challenges that 5 g networks are expected to solve , various types of modulation have been proposed , such as filtering , pulse shaping , and precoding to reduce the out - of - band ( oob ) leakage of ofdm signals . filtering @xcite is the most straightforward approach to reduce the oob leakage and with a properly designed filter , the leakage over the stop - band can be greatly suppressed .",
    "pulse shaping @xcite can be regarded as a type of subcarrier - based filtering that reduces overlaps between subcarriers even inside the band of a single user , however , it usually has a long tail in time domain according to the heisenberg - gabor uncertainty principle  @xcite . introducing precoding @xcite to transmit data before ofdm modulation is also an effective approach to reduce leakage .",
    "in addition to the aforementioned approaches to reduce the leakage of ofdm signals , some new types of modulations have also been proposed specifically for 5 g networks .",
    "for example , to deal with high doppler spread in ev2x scenarios , transmit data can be modulated in the delay - doppler domain @xcite .",
    "the above modulations can be used with orthogonal multiple access ( oma ) in 5 g networks .",
    "oma is core to all previous and current wireless networks ; time - division multiple access ( tdma ) and frequency - division multiple access ( fdma ) are used in the second generation ( 2 g ) systems , code - division multiple access ( cdma ) in the third generation ( 3 g ) systems , and orthogonal frequency division multiple access ( ofdma ) in the 4 g systems . for these systems ,",
    "resource blocks are orthogonally divided in time , frequency , or code domains , and therefore there is minimal interference among adjacent blocks and makes signal detection relatively simple . however , oma can only support limited numbers of users due to limitations in the numbers of orthogonal resources blocks , which limits the se and the capacity of current networks . to support a massive number of and dramatically different classes of users and applications in 5 g networks ,",
    "various noma schemes have been proposed .    as an alternative to oma",
    ", noma introduces a new dimension by perform multiplexing within one of the classic time / frequency / code domains . in other words",
    ", noma can be regarded as an `` add - on '' , which has the potential to be harmoniously integrated with existing ma techniques .",
    "the core of noma is to utilize power and code domains in multiplexing to support more users in the same resource block .",
    "there are three major types of noma : power - domain noma , code - domain noma , and noma multiplexing in multiple domains .",
    "with noma , the limited spectrum resources can be fully utilized to support more users , therefore the capacity of 5 g networks can be improved significantly even though extra interference and additional complexity will be introduced at the receiver .    to address the various challenges of 5 g networks",
    ", we can either develop novel modulation techniques to reduce multiple user interference for oma or directly use noma .",
    "the rest of this article is organized as follows . in section [ sec : waveform ] , novel modulation candidates for oma in 5 g networks are compared . in section [ sec : ma ] , various noma schemes are discussed .",
    "section [ sec : conclusion ] concludes the article .",
    "in this section , we will discuss new modulation techniques for 5 g networks .",
    "since ofdm is widely used in current wireless systems and standards , many potential modulation schemes for 5 g networks are delivered from ofdm for backward compatibility reasons .",
    "therefore , we will first introduce traditional ofdm .      denote @xmath0 , for @xmath1 , to be the transmit complex symbols .",
    "then the baseband ofdm signal can be expressed as @xmath2 for @xmath3 , where @xmath4 , @xmath5 is the subcarrier bandwidth and @xmath6 is the symbol duration . to ensure that transmit symbols can be recovered without distortion , @xmath7 , which is also called the orthogonal condition .",
    "it can be easily shown that @xmath8 if the orthogonal condition holds .",
    "denote @xmath9 to be the sampled version of @xmath10 , where @xmath11 .",
    "it can be easily seen @xcite that @xmath12 is the inverse discrete fourier transform ( idft ) of @xmath13 , which can be implemented by fast fourier transform ( fft ) and significantly simplifies ofdm modulation and demodulation .    to address the delay spread of wireless channels , a cp is usually used in ofdm .",
    "if the length of the cp is larger than the delay span ( the duration between the first and the last taps / paths of a channel ) , then the demodulated ofdm signal can be expressed as @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the frequency response of the wireless channel at @xmath16 and @xmath17 is the impact of additive channel noise .",
    "therefore , the channel distortion becomes a multiplication of channel frequency response in ofdm systems while it is convolution in single - carrier systems , which makes the detection of ofdm signal much easier .    from the above discussion ,",
    "ofdm can effectively deal with the delay spread of broadband wireless channels and fft can be used to significantly simplify its complexity , therefore it has been widely used in the current wireless communication systems and standards . however , as we can see from ( [ eq : ofdmsig ] ) , the ofdm signal is time - limited .",
    "therefore , its oob leakage is pretty high , especially when users are asynchronized as typical of 5 g networks . to address this issue",
    ", a guard band is usually inserted between the signals of two adjacent users in the frequency domain in addition to a cp or a guard interval in the time domain , which reduces the se of ofdm .",
    "this is even more severe for the users using a narrow frequency band .",
    "5 g networks have to support not only a massive number of users but also dramatically different types of users that have different demands .",
    "traditional ofdm can no longer satisfy these requirements , and therefore novel modulation techniques with much lower oob leakage are required .",
    "the new modulation techniques for 5 g networks currently need to consider backward compatibility with traditional ofdm systems but should also have the following key features to address the new challenges .    1 .",
    "high se : new modulation techniques should be able to mitigate oob leakage among adjacent users so that the system se can be improved significantly by reducing the guard band / time resources .",
    "2 .   loose synchronization requirements : massive number of users are expected to be supported , especially for the internet of things ( iot ) , which makes synchronization difficult . therefore",
    ", new modulation techniques are expected to accept asynchronous scenarios .",
    "3 .   flexibility : the modulation parameters ( e.g. , subcarrier width and symbol period ) for each user should be configured independently and flexibly to support users with different data rate requirements",
    ".    the modulation techniques for oma mainly include pulse shaping , subband filtering , precoding design , guard interval ( gi ) shortening , and modulation in the delay - doppler domain . in this section ,",
    "we introduce those promising modulation techniques subsequently .",
    "pulse shaping , which is also regarded as subcarrier - based filtering , can effectively reduce oob leakage . according to the heisenberg - gabor uncertainty principle @xcite , the time and frequency widths of the pulses",
    "can not be reduced at the same time .",
    "therefore , the waveforms based on pulse shaping is usually non - orthogonal in both time and frequency domains to maintain high se .",
    "compared with traditional ofdm , the transceiver structure supporting pulse shaped modulation is more complex . here , we introduce two typical modulations based on pulse shaping , i.e. , filter bank multicarrier ( fbmc ) @xcite and generalized frequency division multiplexing ( gfdm ) @xcite .          as shown in fig . [",
    "fig : fbmc ] , fbmc @xcite consists of idft and dft , synthesis and analysis polyphase filter banks .",
    "the prototype filter in fbmc performs the pulse shaping .",
    "there are two types of typical pulses : the pulse based on the isotropic orthogonal transform algorithm ( iota ) @xcite and the pulse adopted in the phydyas project @xcite .",
    "the length of the pulse in the time domain is determined by the required performance and is usually several times the length of the symbol period .",
    "the bandwidth of the pulse , which is different from the pulse in the traditional ofdm that has a long tail , is limited within a few subbands . to achieve the best se , offset quadrature amplitude modulation ( oqam )",
    "is usually applied to make fbmc real - domain orthogonal in time and frequency domains  @xcite .",
    "therefore , the transmit signal over @xmath18 consecutive block periods can be expressed as @xmath19 where @xmath20 and @xmath21 are the numbers of subcarriers and symbols , respectively , @xmath22 is the transmit symbol at subcarrier @xmath23 and symbol @xmath24 , and @xmath25 is the prototype filter coefficient at the @xmath26-th time - domain sample .",
    "it is worth noting that the transmit symbols here refer to the pulse amplitude modulation ( pam ) symbols that are derived from the staggering of quadrature amplitude modulation ( qam ) symbols .",
    "thus the interval between two adjacent blocks is only half of the block period due to the offset in oqam .",
    "the parameter , @xmath27 in ( [ eq : fbmcsig ] ) , is defined as @xmath28 which is used to form the oqam structure . with a properly designed prototype filter such as iota and the oqam structure ,",
    "the interference from the nearby overlapped symbols caused by a matched filter ( mf ) receiver becomes pure imaginary , which can be easily cancelled .",
    "[ fig : gfdm ] demonstrates the block diagram of gfdm .",
    "ofdm and single - carrier frequency division multiplexing ( sc - fdm ) can be regarded as two special cases of gfdm @xcite .",
    "the unique feature of gfdm is to use circular shifted filters , rather than linear filters that are used in fbmc , to perform pulse shaping . by carefully choosing the circular filter ,",
    "the out - of - block leakage can be reduced even if the orthogonality is completely given up .",
    "we can flexibly adjust @xmath21 frequency samples and @xmath20 time samples for a gfdm block according to the application environment .",
    "the transmit signal for each gfdm block can be expressed as @xmath29 for @xmath30 , where @xmath22 is the transmit symbol on subcarrier @xmath23 at subsymbol @xmath24 and @xmath31 is the circular time and frequency shifted version of the prototype pulse shaping filter . in ( [ eq : gfdmsig ] ) , @xmath32 where @xmath33 denotes the @xmath34 modulo operation and @xmath25 is the prototype pulse shaping filter .",
    "similar to the traditional ofdm , the modulation process and demodulation process can be expressed by matrix operations .",
    "the idft and dft matrices in the traditional ofdm are substituted by some specific matrices corresponding to the modulation and demodulation for gfdm .",
    "but , the transceiver structure of gfdm is significantly different from the traditional ofdm .    besides fbmc and gfdm ,",
    "other modulations based on pulse shaping , such as pulse - shaped ofdm @xcite and qam - fbmc  @xcite , have also been proposed for 5 g networks .",
    "generally , modulations based on pulse shaping try to restrict transmit signals within a narrow bandwidth and thus mitigate the oob leakage so that they can work in asynchronous scenarios with a narrow guard band .",
    "fbmc also uses oqam to achieve real - domain orthogonality , which saves the cost of the gi and interference cancellation . in addition , the circular shifted filters in gfdm avoid the long tail of the linear filters in the time domain , which makes gfdm fit for sporadic transmission .",
    "furthermore , gfdm is easily compatible to mimo technologies @xcite .",
    "subband filtering is another technique to reduce the oob leakage .",
    "universal filtered multicarrier ( ufmc )  @xcite and filtered ofdm ( f - ofdm )  @xcite are two typical modulations based on subband filtering , which will be introduced next .          fig .",
    "[ fig : ufmc ] shows the transmitter and the receiver structures of ufmc @xcite . in ufmc ,",
    "the subbands are with equal size , and each filter is a shifted version of the same prototype filter .",
    "ofdm is applied within a subband for this modulation as shown in the figure .",
    "since the bandwidth of the filter in ufmc is much wider than that of the modulations based on the pulse shaping , the length in time domain is much shorter .",
    "therefore , interference caused by the tail of the filter can be easily eliminated by adopting a zero - padding ( zp ) prefix with a reasonable length . assuming that @xmath35 subcarriers are divided into @xmath20 subbands , each with @xmath36 consecutive subcarriers , the transmit signal in ufmc can be expressed as @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the filter coefficient of subband @xmath23 , and @xmath39 is the ofdm modulated signal over subband @xmath23 that can be expressed as @xmath40 with @xmath41 denoting the length of the zp , @xmath21 denoting the number of symbol blocks and @xmath42 denoting the signal at subcarrier @xmath23 and symbol @xmath24 .",
    "in ( [ eq : ufmcsubsig ] ) , @xmath42 can be expressed as @xmath43 where @xmath44 denotes the @xmath45-th transmit symbol at the @xmath24-th symbol block . at the receiver , the signal at each symbol interval is with the length of @xmath46 and is zero - padded to have a length of @xmath47 so that a @xmath47-point fft can be performed . please note that only the even subcarriers are considered for signal detection after the @xmath47-point fft .",
    "f - ofdm has a similar transmitter structure as ufmc @xcite .",
    "the main difference is that f - ofdm employs a cp and usually allows residual inter - symbol interference ( isi ) @xcite .",
    "therefore , at the receiver , the mf is applied instead of the zp and decimation . besides",
    ", downsampling can be applied before the dft operation , which can reduce complexity significantly since the cp can mitigate most of interference caused by the tail of the filter ; the residual interference is with much lower power and can be treated as noise @xcite .",
    "thus , the filter in f - ofdm can be longer than that in ufmc and has better attenuation outside the band . with the aid of effective channel coding ,",
    "the performance degradation caused by residual interference in f - ofdm can be negligible .",
    "another difference from ufmc is that the subcarrier spacing and the cp length do not have to be the same for different users in f - ofdm .",
    "the most widely used filter in f - ofdm is the soft - truncated sinc filter @xcite , which can be easily used in various applications with different parameters .",
    "therefore , f - ofdm is very flexible in the frequency multiplexing . besides ufmc and f - ofdm , other modulations based on subband filtering have also been proposed .",
    "for example , resource block f - ofdm ( rb - f - ofdm ) @xcite utilizes filters based on resource block instead of the whole band of users in f - ofdm . in general , modulations based on subband filtering can effectively reduce oob leakage and achieve better performance in comparison with the traditional ofdm .",
    "apart from pulse shaping and subband filtering , there are also some other techniques to suppress the oob leakage and meet the requirements of 5 g networks . in the following ,",
    "we mainly introduce three other modulations , including guard interval discrete fourier transform spread ofdm ( gi dft - s - ofdm ) @xcite , spectrally - precoded ofdm ( sp - ofdm ) @xcite , and orthogonal time frequency and space ( otfs ) @xcite .      in gi dft - s - ofdm @xcite",
    ", the known sequence is used as the gi instead of a cp .",
    "several types of the known sequences , such as the zero sequence @xcite and a well - designed unique word @xcite , can be used . by a fixed",
    "known sequence with constant amplitude in gi dft - s - ofdm , the peak - to - average power ratio ( papr ) of the modulated signal can be reduced .",
    "moreover , the known sequence can also be utilized to estimate the parameters , such as the carrier frequency offset ( cfo ) in the synchronization process . by utilizing a proper sequence as the gi , the discontinuity between the adjacent time blocks in the traditional ofdm / dft - s - ofdm can be avoided . as a result",
    ", the oob leakage is reduced .    for gi dft - s - ofdm ,",
    "the overall length of the gi and useful signal for different users is same .",
    "thus , the dft windows for different users at the receiver can still be aligned even if the lengths of the gis are different .",
    "therefore , the mutual interference due to asynchronization of users can be mitigated  @xcite .",
    "[ fig : spofdm ] shows the diagram of sp - ofdm @xcite . from the figure , it consists idft and dft , spectral precoder , and iterative detector .",
    "generally , the data symbols mapped on subcarriers are precoded by a rank - deficient matrix in order to project the signal into a properly selected lower dimensional subspace so that the precoded signal can be high - order continuous , and results in much lower leakage compared with the traditional ofdm @xcite .",
    "even if precoded by a rank - deficient matrix can reduce the capacity of the channel , the oob leakage of the ofdm signals can be significantly suppressed at the cost of only few reduced dimensions .        compared to the modulations based on filtering , sp - ofdm has the following three advantages :    * the isi caused by the tail of the filters can be removed without filtering .",
    "therefore , the cp applied to combat the multipath of the wireless channels can be shorter , and se is improved .",
    "* when fragmented bands are used , sp - ofdm can easily notch specific well chosen frequencies without requiring multiple narrow subband filters @xcite .",
    "* furthermore , precoding and filtering can be combined to further improve the performance .",
    "the structure of otfs is similar to sp - ofdm , as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : spofdm ] .",
    "the main difference is that the spectral precoder and the iterative detector are substituted by the two - dimensional ( 2d ) symplectic fourier transform and the corresponding inverse transform modules .",
    "otfs maps the symbols in the delay - doppler domain @xcite . through a 2d symplectic fourier transform",
    ", the corresponding data in the time - frequency domain can be calculated .",
    "then , the calculated data can be transmitted via a time - frequency - domain modulation method as in ofdm .",
    "since the 2d symplectic fourier transform is relatively independent of the time - frequency - domain modulation method , pulse shaping and subband filtering can also be applied together to further reduce the leakage in otfs .",
    "when a mobile is with a high speed , the channel experiences fast fading .",
    "channel parameters need to be estimated and tracked very often therefore , which significantly increases resource costs .",
    "moreover , most of the modulations are designed assuming that channels are constant within a symbol block . with a high mobility speeds ,",
    "extra interference is introduced , which degrades the performance .",
    "however , in the delay - doppler domain , the high doppler channel can be expressed in a stable model , which saves the cost of tracking the time - varying fading and improves performance therefore .",
    "otfs can be also applied to estimate channel state information ( csi ) of different antennas in mimo systems @xcite .",
    "generally , the delay and doppler dispersions are still relatively small compared to the system scale . in this case",
    ", the channel can be expressed in a compact and stable form in the delay - doppler domain . as a result ,",
    "the spread of the pilots caused by the channel are local , which enables to estimate the csi of different antennas in mimo systems by different pilots within a small area of the delay - doppler plane .",
    "in addition , a number of modulations based on other techniques have been also proposed , such as windowed ofdm ( w - ofdm ) @xcite , which utilizes windowing to deal with the discontinuity between adjacent ofdm symbols .",
    "we compare the power spectral density ( psd ) and bit - error rate ( ber ) of different modulations .",
    "suppressing the oob leakage is a key purpose for most of the modulation candidates for 5 g networks .",
    "the psds of the some modulations are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : psd ] . from the figure ,",
    "all modulations achieve much lower leakage compared to the traditional ofdm . among them",
    ", ufmc applies subband filtering and also has low leakage , and fbmc and f - ofdm have the lowest leakage .",
    "gfdm , gi dft - s - ofdm , and sp - ofdm , although do not reduce the leakage as much as fbmc and f - ofdm , can still achieve much better performance than the traditional ofdm .          in order to reduce the oob leakage ,",
    "many modulations utilize techniques , such as pulse shaping and subband filtering , which may introduce isi and ici .",
    "hence , the ber performance of different modulations is compared here .",
    "[ fig : ber ] shows the ber performance versus signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) when the doppler spread @xmath48 and @xmath49 hz . from fig .",
    "[ fig : ber ]  ( a ) , the traditional ofdm has the best performance when the doppler spread is zero ( @xmath48 ) since the isi caused by the multipath has been completely canceled by the cp . since the bandwidth of each subcarrier is small enough to make the corresponding channel approximately flat , the isi introduced by pulse shaping in fbmc is nearly pure imaginary .",
    "therefore , fbmc is approximately orthogonal in the real domain and achieves good ber performance .",
    "the performance of ufmc , gfdm , and sp - ofdm is similar to that of fbmc , which is degraded slightly due to noise enhancement and low - projection precoding .",
    "however , f - ofdm introduces extra isi that can not be completely canceled , and as a result , it has slightly worse performance , especially in the high snr region .",
    "gi dft - s - ofdm and otfs , which are different from the modulation schemes that directly map the symbols on subcarriers , apply spreading before mapping so that their performance does not approach that of ofdm .",
    "since the fast - fading channel is difficult to be estimated and tracked accurately , the performance of the most modulation schemes degrades significantly as we can see from fig .",
    "[ fig : ber ] ( b ) . while otfs can still achieve good performance due to its specific channel estimation method .",
    "moreover , its performance in the high - mobility scenario is even better than that in the zero doppler shift scenario because of doppler diversity .      in this section ,",
    "modulation techniques for 5 g networks will be be discussed .",
    "these techniques can be used with oma to effectively deal with the oob leakage in 5 g networks . however , there are still many open issues in the area .",
    "a potential application of f - ofdm is iot . in this scenario ,",
    "the subbands are narrow and therefore , interference caused by a short cp can significantly degrade the performance and should be considered in the detection . to improve the detection performance , additional processing , such as filtering or successive interference cancellation ( sic ) , is needed .",
    "residual isi cancellation ( risic )  @xcite could be helpful .",
    "the existing designs for subband filtering , such as dolph - chebyshev filter in ufmc and soft - truncated filter in f - ofdm , are with fixed length .",
    "however , different users and different application scenarios will have different requirements on the leakage levels , filter lengths , etc . according to the heisenberg - gabor uncertainty principle  @xcite , the time and frequency dispersions are dual variables that can not be reduced at the same time .",
    "therefore , how to balance the time and frequency dispersions and design an efficient prototype filter according to application scenarios is interesting .",
    "similar to the traditional ofdm , multi - carrier based new modulation candidates , such as fbmc and ufmc also have a large papr . in order to improve the efficiency of the power amplifier",
    ", the papr should be reduced .",
    "the traditional papr reduction methods  @xcite applied in the traditional ofdm usually introduce distortions that degrade the performance .",
    "therefore , how to properly extend the papr reduction methods in the traditional ofdm to the new modulations is an interesting and meaningful issue .",
    "in order to support higher throughput and massive and heterogeneous connectivity for 5 g networks , we can adopt novel modulations discussed in section ii for oma , or directly use noma with effective interference mitigation and signal detection methods .",
    "the key features of noma can be summarized as follows :    1 .",
    "improved se : noma exhibits a high se , which is attributed to the fact that it allows each resource block ( e.g. , time / frequency / code ) to be exploited by multiple users .",
    "2 .   ultra high connectivity : with the capability to support multiple users within one resource block , noma can potentially support massive connectivity for billions of smart devices .",
    "this feature is quite essential for iot scenarios with users that only require very low data rates but with massive number of users .",
    "3 .   relaxed channel feedback : in noma",
    ", perfect uplink csi is not required at the base station ( bs ) .",
    "instead , only the received signal strength needs to be included in the channel feedback .",
    "low transmission latency : in the uplink of noma , there is no need to schedule requests from users to the bs , which is normally required in oma schemes . as a result , a grant - free uplink transmission can be established in noma , which reduces the transmission latency drastically .",
    "existing noma schemes can be classified into three categories : power - domain noma , code - domain noma , and noma multiplexing in multiple domains .",
    "we will introduce them subsequently with emphasis on power - domain noma .",
    "power - domain noma is considered as a promising ma scheme for 5 g networks @xcite .",
    "specifically , a downlink version of noma , named multiuser superposition transmission ( must ) , has been proposed for the 3gpp long - term evolution advanced ( 3gpp - lte - a ) networks  @xcite .",
    "it has been shown that system capacity and user experiences can be improved by noma .",
    "more recently , a new work item ( wi ) outlining downlink multiuser superposition transmission for lte has been approved by 3gpp lte release 14  @xcite , which aims to identify the necessary techniques to enable lte to support the downlink intra - cell multiuser superposition transmission . here",
    ", we will expand upon the basic principles of various power - domain noma related techniques , including multiple antenna based noma , power allocation in noma , and cooperative noma .",
    "power - domain noma , as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : noma ] for the two user case , deviates from conventional oma that uses tdma / fdma / cdma / ofdma allocating orthogonal resource blocks for different users to avoid the multiple access interference ( mai ) .",
    "instead power - domain noma can support multiple users within the same resource block by distinguishing them with different power levels . as a result , noma is able to support more connectivity and provide higher throughput with limited resources .",
    "the downlink transmission of noma for the two user case is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : noma ] where the users are served at the same time / frequency / code resource block with a total power constraint .",
    "specifically , the bs sends a superimposed signal containing the two signals for the two users .",
    "this differs from conventional power allocation strategies , such as water filling , as noma allocates less power for the users with better downlink csi , to guarantee overall fairness and to utilize diversity in the time / frequency / code domains .",
    "sic is used for signal detection at the receiver .",
    "the user with more transmit power , that is , the one with smaller downlink channel gain , is first to be decoded while treating the other user s signal as noise .",
    "once the signal corresponding to the user with the larger transmit power is detected and decoded , its signal component will be subtracted from the received signal to facilitate the detection of subsequent users .",
    "it should be noted that the first detected user is with the largest inter - user interference and also the detection error in the first user will pass to the other user , which is why we have to allocate sufficient power to the first user to be detected .",
    "the extension of noma from two to multiple user cases is straightforward .    for the uplink transmission of noma , the transmit power is limited by each individual user .",
    "different from the downlink , the transmit powers of the users using the same resource block are carefully controlled so that the received signal components at the bs corresponding to the users with the better csi , have more powers . at the receiver ( the bs )",
    ", the user with the best csi is decoded first . after that",
    ", the corresponding component is removed from the received signal .",
    "the sic receiver works in a descending order of the csi , which is the opposite to the downlink case .",
    "[ fig : noma_oma ] compares noma and oma where two users are served by the same bs if noma is adopted . from the figure ,",
    "the noma scheme achieves a lower outage probability .",
    "however , by adopting noma , a more complex transmitter and receiver are required to mitigate the interference .",
    "furthermore , power - domain noma usually works well when only two or a few users share the same resource block . as the number of users multiplexing in power domain increases , the mai becomes severe and the performance of noma degrades .",
    "multiple antenna techniques can provide an additional degree of freedom on the spatial domain , and bring further performance improvements to noma .",
    "recently , multiple antenna based noma has attracted lots of attention  @xcite .",
    "different from single - input - single - output ( siso ) based noma , where the channels are normally represented by scalars , one of the research challenges in multiple antenna based noma comes from user ordering ; as the channels are generally in form of vectors or matrices .",
    "currently , the possible designs of multiple antenna based noma fall into two categories where one or multiple users are served by a single beamforming vector .    by allocating different users with different beams in the same resource block , the quality of service ( qos ) of each user can be guaranteed in multiple antenna based noma systems forcing the beams to satisfy a predefined order .",
    "this type of multiple antenna based noma scheme has been first proposed by sun  _ et al . _ in  @xcite to investigate power optimization to maximize the ergodic capacity .",
    "this proposed multiple antenna based noma scheme has proved to be able to achieve significant performance improvement compared with conventional oma schemes .",
    "a cluster of users can share the same beam .",
    "the spatial channels of different users within the same cluster are considered to be highly correlated .",
    "therefore , beams for different clusters should be carefully designed to guarantee that the channels for different clusters are orthogonal to each other in order to suppress the inter - cluster interference . for multiple - input - single - output ( miso )",
    "based noma , a two - stage multicast beamforming scheme has been proposed by choi in  @xcite , where zf beamforming has been employed to mitigate interference from adjacent clusters first and then the optimal beamforming vectors have been designed to minimize the total transmit power within each cluster . for mimo",
    "based noma , a scheme to simultaneously apply open - loop random beamforming and intra - beam sic , has been proposed by higuchi and kishiyama in  @xcite .",
    "however , here the system performance is considerably degraded as the random beamforming can bring uncertainties at the user side .",
    "more recently , a precoding and detection framework with fixed power allocation has been proposed by ding  _ et al .",
    "_  @xcite to solve these problems caused by random beamforming , and demonstrated that mimo based noma can achieve better outage performance than mimo based oma even for users who experience strong co - channel interference .",
    "a comprehensive summary for the state - of - the - art work on multiple antenna based noma is given in table  [ table : mimo noma ] , where `` bf '' , `` op '' , `` su '' and `` mu '' are used to represent beamforming , outage probability , two - user and multi - users cases , respectively .    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     & no need for user clustering & specific channel coding +    [ table : comparison ]      several noma schemes have been discussed in this section . even if using different techniques , these schemes share the same spirit to utilize non - orthogonality to increase the system capacity and support more users by the limited resource blocks . beyond the existing work ,",
    "more research is necessary to improve the performance of these noma schemes from the following aspects .",
    "the mpa - sic detection method is usually applied in scma and pdma , in which the user clustering mechanism affects the performance of the method significantly .",
    "when users are asynchronous , those with similar time delays should be divided into the same cluster for better performance .",
    "if the delays vary a lot among the users within the same cluster , interference among different users becomes large and may break the sparse structure .",
    "multi - branch technique  @xcite can be applied to improve the performance by regarding each cluster as a branch . by calculating each branch in parallel and selecting the best result as the final one ,",
    "the performance could be improved compared to the single clustering approach .",
    "the joint design of new modulation and noma schemes is an important direction to be explored in 5 g networks .",
    "some of the noma schemes , especially the lds based code - domain noma , are based on ofdm , where the output of the sparse spreading matrix is mapped into orthogonal subcarriers . in general , how to properly combine the modulation and noma scheme is under research .",
    "for example , for the combination of scma and f - ofdm , the short cp of f - ofdm could introduce isi and ici when the subband is narrow and degrade the detection performance of scma .",
    "if the risic algorithm is adopted to cancel the interference introduced by f - ofdm , the multiuser detection of scma should be included in the iteration of cp reconstruction , which poses a requirement of joint design approaches for the receivers .",
    "the design of modulation and ma schemes for high frequency bands ( above 40 ghz ) is beginning to receive increased iterest .",
    "the millimeter - wave ( mmwave ) and terahertz ( thz ) bands appear to be good candidates to decrease spectrum sacristy due to the availabilities in current circuit design  @xcite .",
    "however , the propagation properties of mmwave and thz bands have shown to be quite poor , which brings new challenges on system designs .",
    "for example , noise is the major limitation of mmwave and thz bands , which makes the transmit power levels extremely important and ultimately impacts the classes of applications that can use them ( e.g. iot ) .",
    "moreover , high level impairments including carrier frequency offset ( cfo ) and phase noise also need to be considered in mmwave and thz bands as they are noise - limited . nevertheless , there is already a study on noma based mmwave communications  @xcite , we may further see analyses of such systems based on practical scenarios in the future .",
    "in this article , we provide a comprehensive survey covering the major promising candidates for modulation and multiple access ( ma ) in fifth generation ( 5 g ) networks . from our discussion",
    ", we can see that new modulations for orthogonal ma can be adopted to reduce out - of - band leakage while meeting the diverse demands of 5 g networks .",
    "non - orthogonal ma is another promising approach that marks a deviation from the previous generations of wireless networks . by utilizing non - orthogonality",
    ", we have convincingly shown that 5 g networks will be able to provide enhanced throughput and massive connectivity with improved spectral efficiency .",
    "h.  sampath , s.  talwar , j.  tellado , v.  erceg , and a.  paulraj , `` a fourth - generation mimo - ofdm broadband wireless system : design , performance , and field trial results , '' _ ieee commun . mag .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "40 , no .  9 , pp . 143149 , sep .",
    "2002 .",
    "v.  vakilian , t.  wild , f.  schaich , s.brink , and j.  f.  frigon , `` universal - filtered multi - carrier technique for wireless systems beyond lte , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee globecom workshops ( gc wkshps ) _ , atlanta , ga , usa , dec . 2013 , pp . 223228 .    f.  schaich , t.  wild , and y.  chen , `` waveform contenders for 5 g - suitability for short packet and low latency transmissions , '' in _ proc .",
    "( vtc spring ) _ , seoul , korea , may 2014 , pp .",
    "j.  abdoli , m.  jia , and j.  ma , `` filtered ofdm : a new waveform for future wireless systems , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee 16th int . workshop signal process . adv .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "( spawc ) _ , stockholm , sweden , jun .",
    "2015 , pp . 6670 .",
    "x.  zhang , m.  jia , l.  chen , j.  ma , and j.  qiu , `` filtered - ofdm - enabler for flexible waveform in the 5th generation cellular networks , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee global commun .",
    "( globecom ) _ , san diego , ca , usa , dec . 2015 , pp . 16 .",
    "m.  bellanger , m.  renfors , t.  ihalainen , and c.a.f .",
    "da rocha , `` ofdm and fbmc transmission techniques : a compatible high performance proposal for broadband power line communications , '' in _ int .",
    ". power line commun . and",
    "its applications ( isplc ) _ , rio de janeiro , brazil , mar .",
    "2010 , pp . 154159 .",
    "n.  michailow , m.  matth , i.s .",
    "gaspar , a.  n.  caldevilla , l.  l.  mendes , a.  festag , and g.  fettweis , `` generalized frequency division multiplexing for 5th generation cellular networks , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "62 , no .  9 , pp . 30453061 , sep .",
    "2014 .",
    "a.  sahin , i.  guvenc , and h.  arslan , `` a survey on multicarrier communications : prototype filters , lattice structures , and implementation aspects , '' _ ieee commun .",
    "surveys tu .",
    "_ , vol .  16 , no .  3 , pp . 13121338 , third quarter , 2014 .",
    "z.  zhao , m.  schellmann , q.  wang , x.  gong , r.  boehnke , and w.  xu , `` pulse shaped ofdm for asynchronous uplink access , '' in _ asilomar conf .",
    "signals , systems and computers _ , monterey , usa , nov .",
    "2015 , pp . 37 .    c.  kim , k.  kim , y.  h.  yun , z.  ho , b.  lee , and j.  y.  seol , `` qam - fbmc : a new multi - carrier system for post - ofdm wireless communications , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee global commun . conf .",
    "( globecom ) _ , san diego , ca , usa , dec . 2015 , pp . 16 .",
    "g.  berardinelli , f.   m. l. tavares , t. b. sorensen , p.  mogensen , and k.  pajukoski , `` zero - tail dft - spread - ofdm signals , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee globecom workshops ( gc wkshps ) _ , atlanta , ga , usa , dec . 2013 , pp . 229234 .    a.  sahin , r.  yang , m.  ghosh , and r. l. olesen , `` an improved unique word dft - spread ofdm scheme for 5 g systems , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee globecom workshops ( gc wkshps ) _ , san diego , ca , usa , dec . 2015 , pp .",
    "p.  achaichia , m.  l.  bot , and p.  siohan , `` windowed ofdm versus ofdm / oqam : a transmission capacity comparison in the homeplug av context , '' in _ int .",
    ". power line commun . and its applications ( isplc ) _ , udine , italy , apr .",
    "2011 , pp .",
    "405410      x. li and l. j. cimini , `` effects of clipping and filtering on the performance of ofdm , '' _ ieee commun . lett .",
    "_ , vol .  2 , no .  5 , pp .",
    "131133 , may 1998 .",
    "k.  higuchi and y.  kishiyama , `` non - orthogonal access with random beamforming and intra - beam sic for cellular mimo downlink , '' in _ proc .",
    "( vtc fall ) _ , las vegas , nv , usa , sep .",
    "2013 , pp . 15 .",
    "k.  higuchi and a.  benjebbour , `` non - orthogonal multiple access ( noma ) with successive interference cancellation for future radio access , '' _ ieice trans .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "98 , no .  3 , pp . 403414 ,",
    "2015 .",
    "z.  ding , r.  schober , and h.  v. poor , `` a general mimo framework for noma downlink and uplink transmission based on signal alignment , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "15 , no . 6 , pp . 4438 - 4454 , jun .",
    "2016 .",
    "z. qin , y. liu , z. ding , y. gao and m. elkashlan , `` physical layer security for 5 g non - orthogonal multiple access in large - scale networks , '' in _ proc .",
    "conf . on commun .",
    "( icc ) _ , kuala lumpur , malaysia , may 2016 , pp . 1 - 6 .",
    "y.  liu , z.  qin , m.  elkashlan , y.  gao , and l.  hanzo , `` enhancing the physical layer security of non - orthogonal multiple access in large - scale networks , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "_ , to appear in 2017 .",
    "y.  saito , y.  kishiyama , a.  benjebbour , t.  nakamura , a.  li , and k.  higuchi , `` non - orthogonal multiple access ( noma ) for cellular future radio access , '' in _ proc .",
    "( vtc spring ) _ , dresden , germany , jun .",
    "2013 , pp.15 .",
    "y.  saito , a.  benjebbour , y.  kishiyama , and t.  nakamura , `` system - level performance evaluation of downlink non - orthogonal multiple access ( noma ) , '' in _ proc .",
    "personal , indoor , and mobile radio commun .",
    "( pimrc ) _ , london , uk , sep .",
    "2013 , pp .",
    "611 - 615 .",
    "z.  ding , z.  yang , p.  fan , and h.  v. poor , `` on the performance of non - orthogonal multiple access in 5 g systems with randomly deployed users , '' _ ieee signal process .",
    "_ , vol .  21 , no .  12 , pp .",
    "15011505 , dec . 2014 .",
    "y.  liu , z.  ding , m.  elkashlan , and h.  v. poor , `` cooperative non - orthogonal multiple access with simultaneous wireless information and power transfer , '' _ ieee j. sel .",
    "areas commun .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "34 , no .  4 , apr .",
    "2016 .",
    "f.  liu , p.  mahonen , and m.  petrova , `` proportional fairness - based user pairing and power allocation for non - orthogonal multiple access , '' in _ proc .",
    "personal , indoor , and mobile radio commun .",
    "( pimrc ) _ , hong kong , p.r .",
    "china , aug .",
    "2015 , pp . 11271131 .",
    "f.  liu , p.  mahonen , and m.  petrova , `` proportional fairness - based power allocation and user set selection for downlink noma systems , '' in _ proc .",
    "on commun .",
    "( icc ) _ , kuala lumpur , malaysia , may 2016 , pp .",
    "j.  mei , l.  yao , h.  long , and k.  zheng , `` joint user pairing and power allocation for downlink non - orthogonal multiple access systems , '' in _ proc . conf . on commun .",
    "( icc ) _ , kuala lumpur , malaysia , may 2016 , pp .",
    "n.  otao , y.  kishiyama , and k.  higuchi , `` performance of non - orthogonal access with sic in cellular downlink using proportional fair - based resource allocation , '' in _ proc .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "( iswcs ) _ , paris , france , aug .",
    "2012 , pp . 476480 .",
    "y.  sun , d.  w.  k. ng , z.  ding , and r.  schober , `` optimal joint power and subcarrier allocation for mc - noma systems , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee global commun .",
    "( globecom ) _ , washington , dc , usa , 2016 , pp . 1 - 6",
    ". m.  al - imari , p.",
    "xiao , m.  a. imran , and r.  tafazolli , `` uplink non - orthogonal multiple access for 5 g wireless networks , '' in _ proc . int .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "( iswcs ) _ , barcelona , spain , aug .",
    "2014 , pp . 781785 .",
    "l.  lei , d.  yuan , c.  k. ho , and s.  sun , `` power and channel allocation for non - orthogonal multiple access in 5 g systems : tractability and computation , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "8580 - 8594 , dec . 2016 .",
    "d. diamantoulakis , k.  n. pappi , z.  ding , and g.  k. karagiannidis , `` wireless powered communications with non - orthogonal multiple access , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "8422 - 8436 , dec . 2016",
    "d. lee , h. seo , b. clerckx , e. hardouin , d. mazzarese , s. nagata and k. sayana , `` coordinated multipoint transmission and reception in lte - advanced : deployment scenarios and operational challenges , '' _ ieee commun . mag .",
    "148 - 155 , feb . 2012 .",
    "y. liu , z. ding , m. elkashlan and j. yuan , `` non - orthogonal multiple access in large - scale underlay cognitive radio networks , '' _ ieee trans . veh .",
    "10152 - 10157 , dec . 2016",
    "y. liu , z. qin , m. elkashlan , y. gao , and n. arumugam , `` non - orthogonal multiple access in massive mimo aided heterogeneous networks , '' in _ proc . of global commun .",
    "( globecom ) _ , washington d.c , usa , dec . 2016 .",
    "f.  fang , h.  zhang , j.  cheng , and v.  c.  m. leung , `` energy - efficient resource allocation for downlink non - orthogonal multiple access network , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "commun . _ , vol .  64 , no .  9 ,",
    "pp . 37223732 , sep .",
    "2016 .",
    "s. m. r. islam , n. avazov , o. a. dobre , k. s. kwak , `` power - domain non - orthogonal multiple access ( noma ) in 5 g systems : potentials and challenges , '' in ieee commun . surveys tutorials , vol.pp , no.99 , pp.1 - 1 , nov . 2016 .",
    "m.  al - imari , p.  xiao , m.  a. imran , and r.  tafazolli , `` uplink non - orthogonal multiple access for 5 g wireless networks , '' in _ proc .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "( iswcs ) _ , barcelona , spain , aug .",
    "2014 , pp . 781785 .",
    "d.  cai , p.  fan , x.  lei , y.  liu , and d.  chen , `` multi - dimensional scma codebook design based on constellation rotation and interleaving , '' in _ proc .",
    "technol . conf .",
    "( vtc spring ) _ , nanjing , china , may 2016 , pp .",
    "15 .",
    "s.  chen , b.  ren , q.  gao , s.  kang , s.  sun , and k.  niu , `` pattern division multiple access ( pdma ) - a novel non - orthogonal multiple access for 5 g radio networks , '' _ ieee trans .",
    "_ , vol .",
    "pp , no .",
    "99 , pp . 11 , 2016 .",
    "d.  fang , y.  huang , z.  ding , g.  geraci , s.  l.  shieh , and h.  claussen , `` lattice partition multiple access : a new method of downlink non - orthogonal multiuser transmissions , '' in _ proc . of global commun .",
    "( globecom ) _ , washington d.c , usa , dec .",
    "j.  zeng , b.  li , x.  su , l.  rong , and r.  xing , `` pattern division multiple access ( pdma ) for cellular future radio access , '' in _ proc .",
    "wireless commun . signal process .",
    "( wcsp ) _ , nanjing , jiangsu , china , oct .",
    "2015 , pp . 15 .",
    "b.  ren , x.  yue , w.  tang , y.   wang , s.  kang , x.  dai , and s.  sun , `` advanced idd receiver for pdma uplink system , '' in _ proc .",
    "ieee / cic int .",
    "conf . commun . in china ( iccc ) _ , chengdu , china , jul .",
    "2016 , pp . 1 - 6 .",
    "y.  huang and k.  r.  narayanan , `` construction @xmath50 and @xmath51 lattices : construction , goodness , and decoding algorithms , '' _ arxiv preprint _ , [ online ] .",
    "available : http://arxiv.org/abs/1506.08269 , aug .",
    "2016 .",
    "y.  cai and r.  c.  de lamare , `` multistage mimo receivers based on multi - branch interference cancellation for mimo - cdma systems , '' in _ proc .",
    "wireless commun .",
    "( iswcs ) _ , tuscany , italy , sep .",
    "2009 , pp ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> fifth generation ( 5 g ) wireless networks face various challenges in order to support large - scale heterogeneous traffic and users , therefore new modulation and multiple access ( ma ) schemes are being developed to meet the changing demands . as this research space is ever increasing , it becomes more important to analyze the various approaches , therefore in this article we present a comprehensive overview of the most promising modulation and ma schemes for 5 g networks . </S>",
    "<S> we first introduce the different types of modulation that indicate their potential for orthogonal multiple access ( oma ) schemes and compare their performance in terms of spectral efficiency , out - of - band leakage , and bit - error rate . </S>",
    "<S> we then pay close attention to various types of non - orthogonal multiple access ( noma ) candidates , including power - domain noma , code - domain noma , and noma multiplexing in multiple domains . from this exploration </S>",
    "<S> we can identify the opportunities and challenges that will have significant impact on the design of modulation and ma for 5 g networks .    </S>",
    "<S> 5 g , modulation , non - orthogonal multiple access . </S>"
  ]
}