{
  "article_text": [
    "sungrazing comet c/2012 s1 ( hereafter referred to as comet ison ) made its first ( and final ) passage through the inner solar system in 2013 .",
    "it originated in the oort cloud at a distance @xmath4  au , and its orbit passed within 0.013  au of the sun at perihelion on 2013 november 28 . by the time comet ison reached perihelion , its ( @xmath5  m diameter ) nucleus had disintegrated @xcite , leaving a trail of dust and debris in its wake .    between 2013",
    "november 12 - 18 , comet ison s activity increased dramatically ( see for example , @xcite ) , as it traversed a heliocentric distance @xmath6 - 0.5  au . during this period of outburst , the comet s visual brightness and water production rate increased by over an order of magnitude , and strong brightness fluctuations ( on the order of a factor of two ) began to occur over timescales of less than a day @xcite .",
    "this event has been associated with fragmentation of the cometary nucleus and consequent increase in active surface area .",
    "the observation of coma wing features in the optical on november 14 , 16 , and 18 by @xcite may be taken as further evidence for the release of nucleus fragments .",
    "@xcite observed a dramatic increase in hcn production on nov .",
    "14 , followed by a remarkable daily variability using the iram 30-m telescope during the period november 13 - 16 , immediately preceding our alma observations .    measurements of the spatial distributions of hcn , hnc and h@xmath1co gas as well as thermal dust emission from the inner coma of comet ison were presented by @xcite , based on observations using the atacama large millimeter / submillimeter array on 2013 november 17 , when the comet s active area reached a peak @xcite .",
    "the hcn and h@xmath1co distributions were found to be quite symmetric , consistent with predominantly isotropic release of these molecules from within a few hundred kilometers of the nucleus .",
    "the hnc distribution , on the other hand , showed surprising collimated / clumpy features , suggesting release of this molecule within jets , streams or clumps . distributed",
    "/ extended coma sources for hnc and h@xmath1co were definitively identified , but the detailed production mechanisms for these molecules are still not well understood ( see also @xcite ) .    in this article , we use temporally - resolved alma observations to examine the detailed spatial distribution and time variability of emission from dust and molecules in comet ison on 2013 november 16 - 17 . the fine ( @xmath7  min ) time cadence of our molecular mapping",
    "provides powerful new insights into the short timescale variability of this comet during outburst , and helps elucidate the nature and origin of the anisotropic hnc features identified by @xcite .",
    ".summary of observations [ tab : obs ] [ cols=\"^,^,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      +      between the start and finish of our observations on november 16 , a dramatic drop in total integrated flux was observed in comet ison for all spectral lines and the continuum . a calibration error or problem with the telescope array",
    "can be ruled out as the source of this variation because our images of the phase calibrator 3c279 ( less than 10@xmath8 away on the sky ) showed a uniform intensity point - source over throughout the observations . as stated in section [ sec : obs ] , the antenna phase fluctuations were small enough to be easily tracked and corrected between visits to the phase calibrator ; resulting in a stable flux response as a function of time .    the hnc map for period 1 , observed on nov . 16",
    "( starting at ut 2013 - 11 - 16 10:10 ; see fig .",
    "[ fig : nov16_hnc ] ) shows a peak near the nominal nucleus position ( indicated with a white cross ) , and a second , elongated structure extending away towards the north , which appears to be partially separated from the main peak .",
    "this northerly elongated clump is reminiscent of the hnc streams / jets identified by @xcite on nov .",
    "17 , indicating that these peculiar structures were not a temporally isolated phenomenon unique to those observations .",
    "the hnc flux on nov .",
    "16 fell from @xmath9  jy  to @xmath10  jy  during the 35 minutes between periods 1 and 3 .",
    "the corresponding reduction in signal - to - noise ratio precludes the possibility of tracking the time - evolution of the hnc clumpy structure on this date .",
    "a significant reduction in flux as a function of time was also observed for ch@xmath0oh , but again , these maps suffer from low signal - to - noise .",
    "the h@xmath1co maps contain more flux , showing a clear central peak and relatively symmetric spatial distribution consistent with isotropic outgassing .",
    "the h@xmath1co distribution remained centrally peaked while the flux fell in an approximately linear fashion by 52 - 72% between periods 1 - 3 .    in the 0.8  mm continuum maps ( shown in the lower panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : nov16_h2co ] ) , the emission contours show a clear elongation towards the upper right of the figure , consistent with the approximate direction of the comet s orbital trail and the anti - sunward vector . similar to the molecular species , the integrated continuum flux also exhibited an apparently linear decrease with time , falling by at least 42% during our observations , and shows that the rapid decline in comet ison s activity was not limited to only the gaseous component of the coma .",
    "[ fig : fluxvstime ] ( upper panel ) shows a plot of the gas and continuum flux measurements as a function of time ( including @xmath11 error bars ) , where the declining flux trends are .",
    "ut 2013 - 11 - 16 + co outflow model ( with gas production rate falling to @xmath12 after 3.5 minutes ) is shown with a black dashed line .",
    "calculated flux decay curves due to coma expansion following an instantaneous halt to cometary production are also shown for outflow velocities of 1  and 0.5  .",
    "[ fig : fluxvstime],title=\"fig : \" ] + ut 2013 - 11 - 17 + co outflow model ( with gas production rate falling to @xmath12 after 3.5 minutes ) is shown with a black dashed line .",
    "calculated flux decay curves due to coma expansion following an instantaneous halt to cometary production are also shown for outflow velocities of 1  and 0.5  .",
    "[ fig : fluxvstime],title=\"fig : \" ]         +     +      +      by the start of our alma observations on nov .",
    "17 ( approx .",
    "26  hr later ) , the observed line and continuum fluxes had risen by about a factor of two relative to the start of observations on nov .",
    "16 , and remained at a relatively constant level throughout the subsequent hour of alma observing .",
    "the total fluxes are shown as a function of time in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : fluxvstime ] and there is little evidence for any significant variation outside of the observational uncertainties .",
    "the relative stability of the comet s activity is also apparent from the coma maps in figs .",
    "[ fig : nov17_hnc ] and [ fig : nov17_h2co ] .",
    "apart from the ( random ) noise features , the ch@xmath0oh , h@xmath1co and continuum morphologies all show good consistency between the three time periods .",
    "the hnc maps , on the other hand , reveal a striking time variability that is most evident when comparing observation periods 1 and 3 . in period 1 , the hnc peak ( detected at @xmath13 level , where @xmath14 is the rms noise ) , appears at a position coincident with the continuum and other molecules , but in period 2 , the hnc peak is shifted about 400  km towards the upper right of the map .",
    "period 3 shows a weaker central emission peak and isolated , compact clump of strong ( @xmath15 ) hnc emission ( marked with an asterisk ) , at a position @xmath16  km north - west of the nominal nucleus position , at an angle @xmath17 clockwise from celestial north .    to highlight the significance of this temporal hnc variation , fig .",
    "[ fig : profiles ] shows one - dimensional slices through the hnc maps for each period , taken along the black dashed line shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : nov17_hnc ] , and passing through the center of the isolated clump .",
    "the shaded area in these plots represents the @xmath11 error envelope .",
    "note , in this analysis the signal - to - noise of our spectral profiles was insufficient to derive any useful radial velocity information for the gases , so our analysis is necessarily limited to the discussion of sky - projected distances in two dimensions , which is implicitly assumed from here on .    in the first observation period , the 1-d hnc profile ( fig .",
    "[ fig : profiles ] ) is strongly centrally peaked . in period 2 ,",
    "the distribution is significantly broader and flatter , with a weakened central peak . in the third period",
    "the profile is broader and flatter still ( with the central peak weakened to less than or about half its initial value ) , combined with the appearance of a spatially isolated hnc peak / clump far out into the coma . about 20% of the total hnc flux",
    "is concentrated inside the @xmath18 contour surrounding this clump .",
    "we followed the same methodology as @xcite to fit the visibility ( fourier ) amplitude components of the observed hnc data using a haser daughter model .",
    "the real parts of the visibility amplitudes ( visibilities ) were first rebinned to a uniform antenna separation ( baseline ) grid and are plotted as a function of baseline in fig .",
    "[ fig : vis ] for the three time periods . for each period ,",
    "the visibilities show a relative excess of flux at large angular scales ( short baselines ) that can not be explained if the observed hnc is a parent molecule , thus confirming the conclusions of @xcite and @xcite that hnc is a daughter / product species , with a distributed source in the coma . for the first two time periods , the best - fitting hnc parent scale length ( @xmath19 )",
    "was found to be 450  km ( with possible values in the range @xmath20 - 1200  km due to statistical uncertainties ) . for the third period",
    ", it was only possible to derive a lower limit from our data of @xmath21  km ; this is due to an excess of extended flux that can not be accounted for by our model .",
    "our inability to fully constrain the scale of hnc production at that epoch suggests that the observed hnc distribution was even broader than can be explained using a standard haser model , and further highlights the importance of coma production for this species . for a more detailed interpretation of these data , a three - dimensional ( anisotropic ) ,",
    "time - variable radiative transfer model is required , which is beyond the scope of the present study , but is currently in development .",
    "cometary activity is often observed to vary smoothly with heliocentric distance .",
    "nevertheless , short time - scale variations ( on periods of hours to days ) are not uncommon ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and localized outbursts have recently been observed in detail by rosetta in comet 67p / churyumov - gerasimenko @xcite .",
    "our alma observations of c/2012 s1 ( ison ) , however , constitute the first detections of strong variability in hnc , h@xmath1co and sub - mm continuum over timescales of less than an hour .",
    "the drop in line and continuum fluxes by over 42% in such a short timescale is remarkable as it implies an extremely abrupt , spontaneous change in the comet s activity .",
    "the observed rapid drop in line and continuum fluxes during our nov .",
    "16 observations can plausibly be explained by an abrupt decrease in the comet s gas and dust production near to the start of our alma observations . following this drop in activity",
    ", we hypothesize that the three main processes responsible for the loss of detected emission as a function of time are ( 1 ) molecular photodissociation , ( 2 ) sublimation of icy grains , and ( 3 ) transport of the coma material out of the alma field of view .",
    "the latter is expected due to the outflow / expansion of the coma ( for gas and dust ) , with the additional possibility of differential sublimation pressure that may result in the acceleration of solid particles .    to explore the possible impact on the observed fluxes of coma expansion following a reduction in comet activity , a simple , spherically - symmetric ,",
    "constant - velocity outflow model was generated .",
    "assuming the nucleus instantaneously stopped producing material at the start of our observations on nov .",
    "16 ( at around ut 2013 - 11 - 16 10:10 ) , and the coma was allowed to continue expanding outwards at the same velocity , the fraction of material remaining within the @xmath22-radius integration aperture was calculated as a function of time and plotted with a dotted curve ( for an outflow velocity @xmath23  ) and a dot - dashed curve ( for @xmath24  ) in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : fluxvstime ] .",
    "these curves bracket the range of gradients in the observed line and continuum fluxes .    given the reappearance of intense molecular and dust emission from the comet 26 hours later on nov .",
    "17 , combined with the general trend for increasing ly-@xmath25 and optical flux on the days around our alma observations ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it seems unlikely that cometary activity ceased completely during our nov .",
    "16 observations .",
    "the decay in the alma fluxes was probably offset by at least some new gas and dust production . a more realistic scenario to explain our observations",
    "was obtained by constructing a time - dependent haser daughter model for h@xmath1co , with fixed parent scale length of 280  km , h@xmath1co mixing ratio of 0.8% , fixed temperature of @xmath26  k , @xmath23  ( see @xcite ) and a photodissociation rate of @xmath27  s@xmath28 ( appropriate for @xmath29  au ; @xcite ) .",
    "synthetic images were generated using the casa simulator , with the same observational and imaging characteristics as for our alma observations .",
    "although our observations could be reproduced by many different time - variability scenarios , given our limited number of data points we adopt the simplest possible model to fit the data , in which the cometary h@xmath1o production rate has an initial value @xmath30 , which falls ( instantaneously ) to a final value @xmath31 after a time @xmath32 .",
    "the best fit to our measured h@xmath1co fluxes is for @xmath33  s@xmath28 , @xmath34 and @xmath35  min , which results in the decay curve shown with a dashed black line in figure [ fig : fluxvstime ] .",
    "such a sharp @xmath3% reduction in the cometary production rate could be due , for example , to ( 1 ) the switching off of a powerful jet or large active region as a result of rotation - induced changes in the nucleus illumination , or ( 2 ) sudden depletion / exhaustion of volatiles from a component of the cometary material , which may be a consequence of the rapid evolution of a nucleus undergoing a series of disruptive outbursts .",
    "photodissociation can be ruled out as a loss process for the large dust grains thought to be responsible for the 0.8  mm continuum emission .",
    "however , if these grains contain a significant amount of ice , sublimation may be an important mechanism .",
    "for icy sub - mm grains at @xmath36  au , @xcite calculated a lifetime ( for complete sublimation ) on the order of a few thousand seconds .",
    "the observed drop in continuum flux is therefore likely due to a reduction in dust grain production , followed by sublimation and the continued motion of the dust out of the alma field of view . without sublimation , and assuming a constant size and temperature for the grains , a radial outflow velocity of @xmath37  is required to explain the more than a factor of two drop in continuum flux on nov .",
    "[ fig : fluxvstime ] , upper panel ) . due to its small size , the thermal continuum emitted by the comet s nucleus",
    "is assumed to be negligible .    due to a lack of previous mapping observations at mm / sub - mm wavelengths ,",
    "the velocity distribution of large grains in cometary comae is not well established .",
    "@xcite determined a velocity of 30  ms@xmath28 for the submillimeter - sized dust released from sungrazing comet c/2013 w3 ( lovejoy ) during its disruption .",
    "@xcite found grain outflow velocities up to 100  ms@xmath28 in the coma of 17p / holmes , and during the deep impact event , @xmath38  ms@xmath28 was observed for the dust in 9p / tempel 1 @xcite .",
    "thus , the drop in continuum flux can probably not be explained by outflow alone ( following a drop in the cometary activity ) , confirming the likely role of icy grain sublimation .",
    "our simplistic calculation does not account for the observed asymmetry ( and implied anisotropic outflow ) in the continuum maps .",
    "the properties of the large grains in comet ison , including their density distribution , velocity field and sublimation rates may thus be better constrained through detailed ( 3-d ) modeling of our alma continuum data in a future study .",
    "sublimation pressure of vaporizing material in comet ison ( including water as well as more refractory species ) has been invoked to explain the anomalous non - gravitational motions experienced by the comet in its run up to perihelion @xcite , and such forces may also have played a role in the breakup of the nucleus @xcite .",
    "single - dish observations of ison s sub - mm continuum emission by @xcite were found to be consistent with the non - gravitational model of @xcite , thus confirming the impact of intense sublimation pressure on the trajectory of the cometary material .",
    "the presence of a ( time - variable ) sub - mm emission tail in the anti - sunward direction ( see figures [ fig : nov16_h2co ] and [ fig : nov17_h2co ] ) , is consistent with this scenario .",
    "we therefore conclude that the large grains responsible for the sub - mm continuum emission observed by alma underwent enhanced heating on the sunward side , giving rise to a sublimation pressure that accelerated them away from the nucleus in the anti - sunward direction .",
    "this acceleration was probably responsible for some of the drop in continuum flux observed on nov .",
    "the time - evolution of the hnc distribution on nov .",
    "17 ( figs .",
    "[ fig : nov17_hnc ] and [ fig : profiles ] ) seems to be most naturally interpreted as due to the release of an isolated clump of material from the nucleus that traveled radially outward through the coma at an average velocity of 0.41  ( in the plane of the sky ) , to reach a distance of 870  km in period 3 .",
    "given the hnc line fwhm of 2.0  , the inferred clump outflow rate is reasonable ( especially considering the possibility of an additional velocity component perpendicular to the plane of the sky ) , and is well within the 1  outflow velocity for hcn and other species deduced by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the derived outflow velocity is also consistent with the approximate limit of 0.5  on the outflow rate of mm - sized dust .",
    "such a transient , spatially isolated , directional outburst of material bears qualitative similarities to the collimated dust jets @xcite and decimeter - sized aggregates @xcite , emitted from confined regions on the surface of comet 67p / churyumov - gerasimenko , as observed by the rosetta spacecraft .    the production rate of hnc in the clump can be derived by modeling the flux map in period 3 of nov .",
    "17 using a two - component isotropic outflow model .",
    "a source of hnc was placed at the nominal nucleus position ( white cross ) and at the hnc peak ( asterisk ) , both with @xmath39  and @xmath26  k. optimizing the hnc production rates of the two sources using a nonlinear least - squares procedure , an excellent fit to the observed image was obtained with @xmath40  s@xmath28 for the nucleus and @xmath41  s@xmath28 for the clump . a spectrally - integrated image of the best - fitting two - component hnc model is shown in the middle panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : compmodel ] , and the observation - minus - model image is shown in the right panel , for which the noise - like residuals indicate the quality of fit .",
    "given the expected @xmath42 falloff in the density of a parcel of expanding gas released from the nucleus , and the fact that the amplitude of the main hnc peak in fig .",
    "[ fig : profiles ] remains approximately constant despite traversing over a factor of two in distance between periods 2 and 3 , it seems unlikely that such a well - defined clump could be released as gaseous hnc directly from the nucleus unless it was as an extremely narrow , well - confined hnc jet . based on our interpretation of the hnc time series ,",
    "a more likely explanation is that the observed hnc peak originates from an ice or organic dust - rich clump , aggregate or chunk of material emitted from the nucleus that underwent degradation / sublimation as it traveled out through the coma .",
    "if this material was mostly ice , then unless it was extremely hnc rich , the clump would also be expected to be apparent at the same positions in the h@xmath1co and ch@xmath0oh maps . from the fact that the clump is not observed in h@xmath1co or ch@xmath0oh but appears in the same general direction from the nucleus as the dust continuum tail",
    ", it follows that the clump likely originates from a macromolecular or polymeric ( refractory ) precursor more closely associated with the cometary dust than the ice .",
    "the increase in relative hnc flux on large scales in the third epoch , as highlighted by the observed visibility amplitudes ( fig .",
    "[ fig : vis ] ) , is also consistent with a spontaneous increase in the production of hnc in the coma as this clumpy material moved outward .",
    "our results are consistent with the hypothesis that cometary hnc originates from the degradation of macromolecules or polymeric material contained within the nucleus . previously , @xcite and @xcite discussed possible macromolecular sources of cometary hnc , including hexamethylenetetramine ( hmt ; c@xmath43h@xmath44n@xmath45 ) , hcn polymer or other large organic molecules that undergo photolytic or thermal degradation as they travel out through the coma .",
    "refractory organic particles are known to exist in comets @xcite , and are believed to have originated in the interstellar medium or protosolar disk .",
    "polyoxymethylene ( pom ) , in particular , has been studied in detail as a candidate to explain the distributed h@xmath1co sources in comets 1p / halley and c/1995 o1 ( hale - bopp ) @xcite .",
    "recent in - situ work on comet 67p using the rosetta cosima instrument revealed the presence of very large macromolecular compounds in the cometary dust , analogous to the insoluble organic matter found in carbonaceous meteorites @xcite .",
    "possible evidence for a radiation - induced , pom - like polymer was also found on the surface of 67p by the ptolemy instrument @xcite , but a conclusive identification of specific macromolecules ( including hmt , pom and hnc polymer ) , remains elusive ( c. altwegg , private communication 2016 ) .",
    "now that detailed mapping of cometary molecular distributions has become routine ( thanks to alma ) , additional comparisons between laboratory data and astronomical observations on the breakdown of large molecules will be possible , to further constrain the nature of cometary organic material .    based on the differences between the hnc and h@xmath1co coma morphologies ,",
    "we conclude that the organic dust source for hnc is not related to that responsible for the distributed source of cometary h@xmath1co .",
    "this implies the presence of at least two kinds of macromolecular parent material in comets : nitrogen - rich and oxygen - rich , the identification of which remains a challenge for laboratory astrophysics .",
    "spatially and temporally resolved observations of molecular and dust emission from c/2012 s1 ( ison ) were obtained as the comet passed between 0.58 and 0.54  au of the sun on its approach to perihelion in november 2013 .",
    "the observed maps reveal a complex and dynamic coma , with molecular line and continuum features evolving rapidly over periods of tens of minutes .",
    "the anisotropic hnc outflow features detected by @xcite are found to be due to the presence of time - variable hnc clumps or well - confined jets moving outward through the coma , and may be explained as the result of the breakdown of hnc - rich icy particles , or refractory materials including organic dust grains , polymers or other macro molecules .",
    "the exact nature of the hnc parent has been debated in the literature for some time @xcite , but our observations strongly suggest an origin for cometary hnc in organic refractory material , released intermittently from confined regions on the nucleus .",
    "a rapid decay in the observed gas emission on november 16 ( over a period of 50 minutes ) is probably the result of a substantial reduction in the activity of the comet during our observations , followed by partial dissipation of the coma through photodissociation and outflow processes . using a haser daughter model the h@xmath1co observations on nov 16",
    "can be explained as being due to a @xmath3% drop in the cometary production rate near the beginning of our observations .",
    "the surprisingly rapid decay in mm continuum flux implies rapid outflow , probably combined with the partial sublimation of large , icy grains . following this lull ,",
    "coma activity had returned strongly by ut 12:30 on november 17 , about a factor of two higher than at the start of our observations on nov .",
    "combined with previous radio and optical observations , these data reveal an extremely erratic behavior in the outgassing of volatiles from comet ison as it approached the sun , with periods of strong outburst interspersed with quiescent intervals , resulting in sporadic production of gas and dust .",
    "future studies of cometary outgassing and volatile depletion during nucleus disruption will be required to help explain the origin of this behavior .",
    "the surprising coma variability detected with alma demonstrates the importance of temporally and spatially - resolved observations on the smallest scales in order to properly understand the structure and composition of cometary comae .",
    "detailed maps of the distributions of coma product species such as hnc and h@xmath1co , combined with laboratory experiments on the breakdown of candidate parent materials will be required to obtain a full understanding of the origins and complex behaviors of these intriguing cometary species .",
    "this study was supported by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "ast-1616306 , by nasa s planetary atmospheres and planetary astronomy programs and by the nasa astrobiology institute through the goddard center for astrobiology .",
    "it makes use of alma data set # 2012.a.00033.s .",
    "alma is a partnership of eso ( representing its member states ) , nsf ( usa ) and nins ( japan ) , together with nrc ( canada ) and nsc and asiaa ( taiwan ) , in cooperation with the republic of chile .",
    "the joint alma observatory is operated by eso , aui / nrao and naoj .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "dcl is supported by nasa through jpl / caltech .",
    "dm is supported by basal cata pfb-06 and the icm mas .",
    "yjk is supported by nsc grants 99 - 2112-m-003 - 003-my3 and 100 - 2119-m-003 - 001-my3 .",
    "agarwal , j. , ahearn , j. , vincent , j .- b .",
    "2016 , mnras , 462 , s78 agndez , m. , biver , n. , santos - sanz , p. , bockele - morvan , d. , moreno , r. 2014 , a&a , 564 , l2 beer , e. h. , podolak , m. , prialnik , d. 2006 , icarus , 180 , 473 boehnhardt , h. , tubiana , c. , oklay , n. , et al .",
    "2013 , cbet , 3715 , 1 boissier , j. , bockele - morvan , d. , biver , n. et al . 2012 , a&a , 542 , a73 , m.  r. , fougere , n. , mkinen , j.  t.  t. et al .",
    "2014 , apjl , 788 , l7 cordiner , m. a. , remijan , a. j. , boissier , j. et al .",
    "2014 , apj , 792 , l2 cottin , h. , bnilan , y. , gazeau , m .- c . ,",
    "raulin , f. 2004 , icarus , 167 , 397 cottin , h. & fray , n. 2008 , ssrv , 138 , 179 crovisier , j. , colom , p. , bockele - morvan , d. et al .",
    "2013 , cbet , 3711 , 1 drahus , m. , jewitt , d. , guilbert - lepoutre , a. , waniak , w. , sievers , a. 2012 , apj , 756 , 80 fray , n. , bnilan , y. , biver , n. et al .",
    "2006 , icarus , 184 , 239 fray , n. , bardyn , a. , cottin , h. et al .",
    "2016 , nature , 538 , 72 grn , e. , agarwal , j. , altobelli , n. et al .",
    "2016 , mnras , 462 , s220 huebner w.f .",
    ", keady j.j . ,",
    "lyon s.p . , ap&ss , 1992 , 195 , 1 irvine , w.m . ,",
    "bergin , e.a . , dickens , j.e .",
    "1998 , nature , 393 , 547 keane , j. v. , milam , s. n. , coulson , i. m. et al .",
    "2016 , apj , 831 , 207 keller , h. u. , kppers , m. , fornasier , s. 2007 , icarus , 191 , 241 knight , m. m. , battams , k. 2014 , apjl , 782 , l37 jewitt , d. , luu , j. 1992 , icarus , 100 , 187 lamy , p. , toth , i. , li , j. , weaver , h. 2014 , asteroids , comets , meteors 2014 .",
    "proceedings of the conference held 30 june - 4 july , 2014 in helsinki , finland .",
    "edited by k. muinonen et al .",
    "li , j. , jewitt , d. , clover , j. m. , jackson , b. v. 2011 , apj , 728 , 31 lin , z .- y . , ip , w .- h . ,",
    "l 2015 , a&a , 583 , a11 lis , d.c .",
    ", bockele - morvan , d. , boissier , j. et al .",
    "2008 , apj , 675 , 931 mcmullin , j. p. , waters , b. , schiebel , d. , young , w. , golap , k. 2007 , astronomical data analysis software and systems xvi ( asp conf .",
    "376 ) , ed .",
    "r. a. shaw , f. hill & d. j. bell ( san francisco , ca : asp ) , 127 mumma , m. j. , charnley , s.b .",
    "2011 , ara&a , 49 , 471 mumma , m. j. , weaver , h. a. , larson , h. p. , williams , m. , davis , d. s. 1986 , sci , 232 , 1523 rodgers , s. d. , charnley , s. b. 2001 , mnras , 323 , 84 rodgers , s. d. , charnley , s. b. 2005 , mnras , 356 , 1542 sekanina , z. , & chodas , p. w. 2012 , apj , 757 , 127 sekanina , z. , jehin , e. , boehnhardt , h. et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 572 , 679 sekanina , z. , kracht r. 2014 , arxiv:1404.5968 steckloff , j. k. , johnson , b. c. , bowling , t. 2015 , icarus , 258 , 430 wright , i. , sheridan , s. , barber , s. , et al .",
    "2015 , science , 349 , aab0673"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of the sungrazing comet c/2012 s1 ( ison ) were carried out using the atacama large millimeter / submillimeter array ( alma ) at a heliocentric distance of 0.58 - 0.54  au ( pre - perihelion ) on 2013 november 16 - 17 . </S>",
    "<S> temporally resolved measurements of the coma distributions of hnc , ch@xmath0oh , h@xmath1co and dust were obtained over the course of about an hour on each day . during the period ut 10:10 - 11:00 on nov . </S>",
    "<S> 16 , the comet displayed a remarkable drop in activity , manifested as a @xmath2% decline in the molecular line and continuum fluxes . </S>",
    "<S> the h@xmath1co observations are consistent with an abrupt , @xmath3% reduction in the cometary gas production rate soon after the start of our observations . on nov . </S>",
    "<S> 17 , the total observed fluxes remained relatively constant during a similar period , but strong variations in the morphology of the hnc distribution were detected as a function of time , indicative of a clumpy , intermittent outflow for this species . </S>",
    "<S> our observations suggest that at least part of the detected hnc originated from degradation of nitrogen - rich organic refractory material , released intermittently from confined regions of the nucleus . </S>",
    "<S> by contrast , the distributions of ch@xmath0oh and h@xmath1co during the nov . </S>",
    "<S> 17 observations were relatively uniform , consistent with isotropic outflow and stable activity levels for these species . </S>",
    "<S> these results highlight a large degree of variability in the production of gas and dust from comet ison during its pre - perihelion outburst , consistent with repeated disruption of the nucleus interspersed with periods of relative quiescence . </S>"
  ]
}