{
  "article_text": [
    "the users requirements on data rates and quality of service ( qos ) are exponentially increasing .",
    "moreover , technological evolution of smartphones , laptops and tablets enables to emerge new high demanding services and applications .",
    "although new mobile devices are more and more powerful in terms of central processing unit ( cpu ) , even these may not be able to handle the applications requiring huge processing in a short time .",
    "moreover , high battery consumption still poses a significant obstacle restricting the users to fully enjoy highly demanding applications on their own devices .",
    "this motivates development of mobile cloud computing ( mcc ) concept allowing cloud computing for mobile users @xcite . in the mcc ,",
    "a user equipment ( ue ) may exploit computing and storage resources of powerful distant centralized clouds ( cc ) , which are accessible through a core network ( cn ) of a mobile operator and the internet .",
    "the mcc brings several advantages @xcite ; 1 ) extending battery lifetime by offloading energy consuming computations of the applications to the cloud , 2 ) enabling sophisticated applications to the mobile users , and 3 ) providing higher data storage capabilities to the users .",
    "nevertheless , the mcc also imposes huge additional load both on radio and backhaul of mobile networks and introduces high latency since data is sent to powerful farm of servers that are , in terms of network topology , far away from the users .    to address the problem of a long latency",
    ", the cloud services should be moved to a proximity of the ues , i.e. , to the edge of mobile network as considered in newly emerged edge computing paradigm .",
    "hence , the mec can offer significantly lower latencies and jitter when compared to the mcc .",
    "moreover , while the mcc is fully centralized approach with farms of computers usually placed at one or few locations , the edge computing is supposed to be deployed in fully distributed manner . on the other hand",
    ", the edge computing provides only limited computational and storage resources with respect to the mcc .",
    "a high level comparison of key technical aspects of the mcc and the edge computing is outlined in table  [ tab : tab1 ] .",
    ".high level comparison of mcc and edge computing concepts [ cols= \" < , < , < \" , ]      the vm migration is not a convenient option when a huge amount of data needs to be migrated among the computing nodes and the whole process may take minutes or even hours @xcite .",
    "even if the migration process lasts few seconds , real - time applications can not be offloaded to the mec .",
    "moreover , the load imposed on backhaul links may be too significant .",
    "in such cases , finding and optimizing new paths for delivery of the computed data from the mec are a more viable option .",
    "this eventuality is considered in @xcite , where the path selection algorithm for a delivery of the offloaded data from the cluster of computing scenbs to the ue is proposed .",
    "the main objective of the path selection algorithm is to minimize transmission delay taking into account quality of both radio and backhaul links .",
    "moreover , the authors enable to enforce handover to new serving scenb to minimize the transmission delay .",
    "an example of the data delivery is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:20 ] , where three scenbs are computing the application offloaded by the ue .",
    "the data processed by the serving scenb2 are received by the ue directly while data from the scenb3 are delivered to the ue through the cn and the serving scenb2 . finally , the ue performs handover to the scenb1 and , then , it receives results from the scenb3 directly via radio link .",
    "the complexity of the proposed algorithm is @xmath0 , where @xmath1 is the number of ues and @xmath2 the amount of the scenbs in cluster .",
    "the proposed algorithm is able to reduce transmission delay by up to 9% with respect to a case when the ue receives all data from the same serving scenb . in @xcite , the algorithm s complexity is further decreased to @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the set of scenbs with sufficient radio / backhaul link quality .",
    "it is shown that the proposed path selection algorithm is able to reduce transmission delay by 54% .",
    "the path selection algorithm contemplated in @xcite@xcite may not be sufficient if the ue is too far away from the computing location since increased transmission delay may result in qos reduction notwithstanding .",
    "hence , the authors in @xcite suggest a cooperation between an algorithm for the dynamic vm migration and the path selection algorithm proposed in @xcite further enhanced by consideration of a mobility prediction .",
    "the first algorithm decides whether the vm migration should be initiated or not based on the mobility prediction and the computation / communication load of the enb(s ) . the second algorithm ,",
    "then , finds the most suitable route for downloading the offloaded data with the mobility prediction outcomes taken into account .",
    "the complexity of the first algorithm is @xmath5 and the complexity of the second algorithm equals to @xmath6 , where @xmath7 is the number of enbs with sufficient channel quality and computing capacity , and @xmath8 stands for the size of the prediction window .",
    "the proposed algorithm is able reducing the average offloading time by 27% comparing to the situation when the vm migration is performed after each conventional handover and by roughly 10% with respect to @xcite .",
    "[ [ ll ] ]    *   *   *",
    "as shown in the previous sections , the mec has attracted a lot of attention in recent years due to its ability to significantly reduce energy consumption of the ues while , at the same time , enabling real - time application offloading because of proximity of computing resources to the users . despite this fact the mec is still rather immature technology and there are many challenges that need to be addressed before its implementation into mobile network to be beneficial .",
    "this section discusses several open research challenges not addressed by the current researcher .      in section  [ sec2 ]",
    ", we have discussed several possible options for placement of the computing nodes enabling the mec within the mobile network architecture . to guarantee ubiquitous mec services for all users wanting to utilize the mec , the mec servers and the computation / storage resource should be distributed throughout whole network .",
    "consequently , the individual options where to physically place the mec servers should complement each other in a hierarchical way .",
    "this will allow efficient usage of the computing resources while respecting qos and qoe requirements of the users . in this context , an important challenge is to find an optimal way where to physically place the computation depending on expected users demands while , at the same time , consider related capex and opex    another missing topic in the literature is a design of efficient control procedures for proper management of the mec resources .",
    "this includes design of signalling messages , their exchange and optimization in terms of signalling overhead .",
    "the control messages should be able to deliver status information , such as load of individual computing nodes and quality of wireless / backhaul links in order to efficiently orchestrate computing resources within the mec .",
    "there is a trade - off between high signalling overhead related to frequent exchange of the status information and an impact on the mec performance due to aging of the status information if these are exchanged rarely .",
    "this trade - off have to be carefully analysed and efficient signalling mechanisms need to be proposed to ensure that the control entities in the mec have up to date information at their disposal while the cost to obtain them is minimized .",
    "the offloading decision plays a crucial part as it basically determines whether the computation would be performed locally , remotely or jointly in both locations as discussed in section  [ sec3 ] .",
    "all papers focusing on the offloading decision consider only the energy consumption at the side of the ue .",
    "however , to be in line with future green networking , also the energy consumption at the mec ( including computation as well as related communication ) should be further taken into account during the decision .",
    "moreover , all papers dealing with the offloading decision assume strictly static scenarios , i.e. , the ues are not moving before and during the offloading .",
    "nevertheless , the energy necessary for transmission of the offloaded data can be significantly changed even during offloading if channel quality drops due to low movement or fading .",
    "this can result in the situation when the offloading may actually increase the energy consumption and/or execution delay comparing to local computation .",
    "hence , it is necessary to propose new advanced methods for the offloading decision , for instance , exploiting various prediction techniques on the ues mobility and channel quality during the offloading to better estimate how much the offloading will cost for varying conditions .    besides , current papers focusing on the partial offloading decision disregard the option to offload individual parts to multiple computing nodes .",
    "multiple computing nodes enables higher flexibility and increases a probability that the offloading to the mec will be efficient for the ue ( in terms of both energy consumption and execution delay ) .",
    "of course , a significant challenge in this scenario belongs to consideration of backhaul between the mec servers and ability to reflect their varying load and parameters during the offloading decision .",
    "the studies addressing the problem of an efficient allocation of the computing resources for the application offloaded to the mec do not consider dynamicity of the network . to be more precise ,",
    "the computing nodes ( e.g. , scenbs , enb ) are selected in advance before the application is offloaded to the mec and then the same computing node(s ) is ( are ) assumed to process the offloaded application ( at least as long as the ue is relatively static and does not perform handover among cells as considered in section  [ sec5 ] ) . however ,",
    "if some additional computing resources are freed while given application is processed at the mec , these resources could be also allocated for it in order to farther speed up the offloaded computing .",
    "hence , a dynamic allocation of the computing resources during processing of the offloaded applications in the mec is an interesting research challenge to be addressed in the future .",
    "so far all the studies focusing on the allocation of computing resources assume a `` flat '' mec architecture in a sense that the mec computing nodes are equally distributed and of the same computing power . in this respect",
    ", it would be interesting to consider more hierarchical placement of the computing nodes within the mec .",
    "more specifically , computing resources should be distributed within the network as described in section  [ sec223 ] ( e.g. , cluster of scenbs , enbs , aggregation points or even at the edge of cn ) .",
    "a hierarchical mec placement should result in a better distribution of the computing load and a lower execution delay experienced by the users since the use of distant cc can be more easily avoided .",
    "so far , the works focusing on mobility management and particularly on the vm migration consider mostly a scenario when only a single computing node ( scenb or enb ) makes computation for each ue . hence , the challenge is how to efficiently handle the vm migration procedure when application is offloaded to several computing nodes .",
    "moreover , the vm migration impose high load on the backhaul and leads to high delay , which makes it unsuitable for real - time applications .",
    "hence , new advanced techniques enabling very fast vm migration in order of milliseconds should be developed .",
    "however , this alternative is very challenging due to communication limits between computing nodes .",
    "therefore , more realistic challenge is how to pre - migrate the computation in advance ( e.g. , based on some prediction techniques ) so that there would be no service disruption observed by the users .    despite of above - mentioned suggestions potentially reducing vm migration time",
    ", stand - alone vm migration may be unsuitable for real - time applications notwithstanding .",
    "consequently , it is important to aim majority of research effort towards a cooperation of the individual techniques for mobility management . in this",
    "regard , dynamic optimization and joint consideration of all techniques ( such as power control , vm migration , compression of migrated data , and/or path selection ) should be studied more closely in order to enhance qoe for the ues and to optimize overall system performance for moving users .      current research dealing with the decision on computation offloading , allocation of computing resources and mobility management mostly neglects the fact that , such as voip , http , ftp , machine type communication , video streaming , etc . , has to be transmitted over radio and backhaul links in parallel to the offloaded data .",
    "especially , if we consider the fact that the offloaded data represents additional load on already resource starving mobile cellular networks .",
    "the efficient scheduling of the communication resources may also increase the amount of data offloaded to the mec because of more efficient utilization radio and backhaul communication links .    besides , the offloading reshapes conventional perception of uplink / downlink utilization as the offloading is often more demanding in terms of the uplink transmission ( offloading from the ue to the mec ) .",
    "the reason for this is that many applications require delivering of large files / data to the mec for processing ( e.g. , image / video / voice recognition , file scanning , etc . ) while the results delivered to the ue are of significantly lower volume .",
    "this paradigm motivates for rethinking and reshaping research effort from sole downlink to the mixed downlink and uplink in the future .",
    "as shown in section  [ sec3 ] ,  [ sec4 ] , and  [ sec5 ] , the mec concept is analyzed and novel algorithms and proposed solutions are validated typically by numerical analysis or by simulations .",
    "in addition , majority of work assume rather simple , and sometimes unrealistic , scenarios for simplification of the problem . although these are a good starting point in uncovering mec potentials , it is important to validate key principles and findings by means of simulations under more complex and realistic situations and scenarios",
    "the mec concept brings computation resources close to the ues , i.e. , to the edge of mobile network .",
    "this enables to offload highly demanding computations to the mec in order to cope with stringent requirements of applications on latency ( e.g. , real time applications ) and to reduce energy consumption at the ue .",
    "although the research on the mec gains its momentum , as reflected in this survey after all , the mec itself is still immature and highly unproved technology . in this regard",
    ", the mec paradigm introduces several critical challenges waiting to be addressed to the full satisfaction of all involved parties such as mobile operators , service providers , and users .",
    "the alpha and the omega of current research regarding the mec is how to guarantee service continuity in highly dynamic scenarios .",
    "this part is lacking in terms of research and is one of the blocking point to enroll the mec concept .",
    "moreover , recent research validates solution mostly under very simplistic scenarios and by means of simulations or analytical evaluations . nevertheless , to demonstrate the expected values introduced by the mec , real tests and trials under more realistic assumptions are further required .",
    "1 hoang t. dinh , chonho lee , dusit niyato and ping wang ,  a survey of mobile cloud computing : architecture , applications , and approaches \" , _ wireless communications and mobile computing _ , 1587 - 1611 , 13 , 2013 .",
    "s. barbarossa , s. sardellitti , and p. di lorenzo ,  communicating while computing : distributed mobile cloud computing over 5 g heterogeneous networks \" , _ ieee signal processing magazine _ , 31(6 ) , 45 - 55 , 2014 .        c. shi , v. lakafosis , m. h. ammar , and e. w. zegura ,  serendipity : enabling remote computing among intermittently connected mobile devices \" , _ acm international symposium on mobile ad hoc networking and computing _ , 145 - 154 , 2012 .",
    "u. drolia , et .",
    "al . ,  the case for mobile edge - clouds , \" _",
    "ieee 10th international conference on ubiquitous intelligence & computing and ieee 10th international conference on autonomic & trusted computing _ , 209 - 215 , 2013 .",
    "a. mtibaa , a. fahim , k. a. harras , and m. h. ammar ,  towards resource sharing in mobile device clouds : power balancing across mobile devices \" , _ acm sigcomm workshop on mobile cloud computing",
    "_ , 51 - 56 , 2013 .",
    "t. nishio , r. shinkuma , t. takahashi , and n. b. mandayam ,  service - oriented heterogeneous resource sharing for optimizing service latency in mobile cloud \" , _ proceedings of the first international workshop on mobile cloud computing & networking _ , 19 - 26 , 2013 .",
    "f liu , p. shu , h. jin , l. ding , j. yu , d. niu , and b. li ,  gearing resource - poor mobile devices with powerful clouds : architectures , challenges , and applications \" , _ ieee wireless communications _ , 20(3 ) , 14 - 22 , 2013 .",
    "j. zhu , d. s. chan , m. s. prabhu , p. natarajan , h. hu , and f. bonomi ,  improving web sites performance using edge servers in fog computing architecture , \" _ ieee international symposium on service - oriented system engineering _ , 320 - 323 , 2013 .",
    "i. stojmenovic ,  fog computing : a cloud to the ground support for smart things and machine - to - machine networks , \" _ australasian telecommunication networks and applications conference ( atnac ) _ , 117 - 122 , 2014 .",
    "m. yannuzzi , r. milito , r. serral - gracia , and d. montero , ",
    "key ingredients in an iot recipe : fog computing , cloud computing , and more fog computing \" , _ international workshop on computer aided modeling and design of communication links and networks ( camad ) _ , 325 - 329 , 2014 .",
    "a. checko , h. l. christiansen , y. yan , l. scolari , g. kardaras , m. s. berger , and l. dittmanncloud ran for mobile networks - a technology overview \" , _ ieee communications surveys & tutorials _ , 17(1 ) , 405 - 426 , first quarter 2015 .",
    "f. lobillo , et .",
    "al . ,  an architecture for mobile computation offloading on cloud - enabled lte small cells \" , _ workshop on cloud technologies and energy efficiency in mobile communication networks ( ieee wcncw ) _ , 1 - 6 , 2014 .",
    "m. a. puente , z. becvar , m. rohlik , f. lobillo , and e. c. strinati ,  a seamless integration of computationally - enhanced base stations into mobile networks towards 5 g \" , _ ieee vehicular technology conference ( ieee vtc - spring 2015 ) workshops _ , 1 - 5 , 2015 .",
    "z. becvar , m. rohlik , p. mach , m. vondra , t. vanek , m.a .",
    "puente , f. lobillo ,  distributed architecture of 5 g mobile networks for efficient computation management in mobile edge computing \" , _ chapter in 5 g radio access network ( ran ) - centralized ran , cloud - ran and virtualization of small cells ( h. venkataraman , r. trestian , eds . ) _ , taylor and francis group , usa , march 2017 .",
    "a. aissioui , a. ksentini , and a. gueroui ,  an efficient elastic distributed sdn controller for follow - me cloud \" , _ ieee international conference on wireless and mobile computing , networking and communications ( wimob ) _ , 876 - 881 , 2015 .",
    "m. deng , h. tian , and b. fan ,  fine - granularity based application offloading policy in small cell cloud - enhanced networks \" , _ ieee international conference on communications workshops ( icc ) _ , 638 - 643 , 2016 .",
    "w. zhang , y. wen , k. guan , d. kilper , h. luo , and d. o. wu ,  energy - optimal mobile cloud computing under stochastic wireless channel \" , _ ieee transactions on wireless communications _ , 12(9 ) , 4569 - 81 , 2013 .",
    "s. ulukus , a. yener , e. erkip , o. simeone , m. zorzi , p. grover , and k. huang ,  energy harvesting wireless communications : a review of recent advances \" , _ ieee journal on selected areas in communications _ , 33(3 ) , 360 - 381 , 2015 .",
    "w. labidi , m. sarkiss , and m. kamoun ,  joint multi - user resource scheduling and computation offloading in small cell networks \" , _ ieee international conference onwireless and mobile computing , networking and communications ( wimob ) _ , 794 - 801 , 2015 .",
    "s. barbarossa , s. sardellitti , and p. di lorenzo ,  joint allocation of computation and communication resources in multiuser mobile cloud computing \" , _ ieee workshop on signal processing advances in wireless communications ( spawc ) _ , 26 - 30 , 2013 .",
    "s. sardellitti , g. scutari , and s. barbarossa , ",
    "joint optimization of radio and computational resources for multicell mobile cloud computing \" , _ ieee international workshop on signal processing advances in wireless communications ( spawc ) _ , 354 - 358 , 2014 .      k. zhang , y. mao , s. leng , q. zhao , l. li , x. peng , l. pan , s. maharjan , and y. zhang ,  energy - efficient offloading for mobile edge computing in 5 g heterogeneous networks \" , _ ieee access _ , 4 , 5896 - 5907 , 2016 .",
    "chen , b. liang , and m. dong ,  a semidefinite relaxation approach to mobile cloud offloading with computing access point \" , _ ieee international workshop on signal processing advances in wireless communications ( spawc ) _ , 186 - 190 , 2015 .",
    "chen , m. dong , and b. liang ,  joint offloading decision and resource allocation for mobile cloud with computing access point \" , _ ieee international conference on acoustics , speech and signal processing ( icassp ) _ , 3516 - 20 , 2016 .",
    "o. munoz , a. pascual - iserte , and j. vidal , ",
    "optimization of radio and computational resources for energy efficiency in latency - constrained application offloading \" , _ ieee transactions on vehicular technology _",
    ", 64(10 ) , 4738 - 55 , 2015 .",
    "o. munoz , a. pascual - iserte , j. vidal , and m. molina ,  energy - latency trade - off for multiuser wireless computation offloading \" , _ ieee wireless communications and networking conference workshops ( wcncw ) _ , 29 - 33 , 2014 .",
    "t. zhao , s. zhou , x. guo , y. zhao , and z. niu ,  a cooperative scheduling scheme of local cloud and internet cloud for delay - aware mobile cloud computing \" , _ ieee globecom workshops ( gc wkshps ) _ , 1 - 6 , 2015 .",
    "x. guo , r. singh , t. zhao , and z. niu ,  an index based task assignment policy for achieving optimal power - delay tradeoff in edge cloud systems \" , _ ieee international conference on communications ( icc ) _ , 1 - 7 , 2016 .",
    "v. di valerio and f. lo presti ,  optimal virtual machines allocation in mobile femto - cloud computing : an mdp approach \" , _ ieee wireless communications and networking conference workshops ( wcncw ) _ , 7 - 11 , 2014 .",
    "j. oueis , e. calvanese - strinati , a. de domenico , and s. barbarossa ,  on the impact of backhaul network on distributed cloud computing \" , _ ieee wireless communications and networking conference workshops ( wcncw ) _ , 12 - 17 , 2014 .",
    "j. oueis , e. calvanese strinati , and s. barbarossa ,  small cell clustering for efficient distributed cloud computing \" , _ ieee annual international symposium on personal , indoor , and mobile radio communication ( pimrc ) _ , 1474 - 79 , 2014 .",
    "j. oueis , e. calvanese strinati , s. sardellitti , and s. barbarossa ,  small cell clustering for efficient distributed fog computing : a multi - user case \" , _ ieee vehicular technology conference ( vtc fall ) _ , 1 - 5 , 2015 .",
    "s. wang , r. urgaonkar , k. chan , t. he , m. zafer , and k. k. leung ,  dynamic service placement for mobile micro - clouds with predicted future costs \" , _ ieee international conference on communications ( icc ) _ , 5504 - 10 , 2015 .",
    "s. wang , r. urgaonkar , t. he , k. chan , m. zafer , and k. k. leung ,  dynamic service placement for mobile micro - clouds with predicted future costs \" , _ ieee transactions on parallel and distributed systems _ , pp(99 ) , 2016 .",
    "z. becvar , j. plachy , and p. mach ,  path selection using handover in mobile networks with cloud - enabled small cells \" , _ ieee international symposium on personal , indoor and mobile radio communications ( pimrc ) _ , 1480 - 85 , 2014 .",
    "j. plachy , z. becvar , and e. calvanese strinati ,  dynamic resource allocation exploiting mobility prediction in mobile edge computing \" , _ ieee international symposium on personal , indoor and mobile radio communications ( pimrc ) _ , 1 - 6 , 2016 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> technological evolution of mobile user equipments ( ues ) , such as smartphones or laptops , goes hand - in - hand with evolution of new mobile applications . </S>",
    "<S> however , running computationally demanding applications at the ues is constrained by limited battery capacity and energy consumption of the ues . suitable solution extending the battery life - time of the ues is to offload the applications demanding huge processing to a conventional centralized cloud ( cc ) </S>",
    "<S> . nevertheless , this option introduces significant execution delay consisting in delivery of the offloaded applications to the cloud and back plus time of the computation at the cloud . </S>",
    "<S> such delay is inconvenient and make the offloading unsuitable for real - time applications . to cope with the delay problem , </S>",
    "<S> a new emerging concept , known as mobile edge computing ( mec ) , has been introduced . </S>",
    "<S> the mec brings computation and storage resources to the edge of mobile network enabling to run the highly demanding applications at the ue while meeting strict delay requirements . </S>",
    "<S> the mec computing resources can be exploited also by operators and third parties for specific purposes . </S>",
    "<S> the core of this survey is , then , focused on user - oriented use case in the mec , i.e. , computation offloading . in this regard , we divide the research on computation offloading to three key areas : i ) decision on computation offloading , ii ) allocation of computing resource within the mec , and iii ) mobility management . </S>"
  ]
}