{
  "article_text": [
    "two well known phenomena associated with low perihelion distance bodies in orbital dynamics are general relativistic ( gr ) precession and lidov - kozai oscillations .",
    "the accurate prediction of the perihelion shift of mercury in accord with real observations is one of the significant triumphs of the general theory of relativity developed by einstein ( 1915 ) .",
    "past works have looked into the gr precession in perihelion in different types of solar system bodies like planets ( weinberg 1972 ; brumberg 1991 ; quinn , tremaine & duncan 1991 ; iorio 2005 ) , asteroids ( sitarski 1992 ) , comets ( shahed - saless & yeomans 1994 ) and meteoroid streams ( fox , williams & hughes 1982 ; sekhar 2013 ; galushina , ryabova & skripnichenko 2015 ) .",
    "more recently some works have explored the cases of gr precession in exoplanetary systems ( naoz et al .",
    "2011 , 2013 ; li et al .",
    "2015 ) .",
    "a dynamical mechanism first found by lidov ( 1962 ) , and further studied by kozai ( 1962 ) who applied it to sun - jupiter - asteroid 3-body systems , explains the periodic exchange between eccentricities @xmath0 and inclinations @xmath1 thereby increasing or decreasing the perihelion distance @xmath2 secularly in the orbiting body . in its purest form",
    "the lidov - kozai mechanism involves three bodies , namely a central body , test particle and perturber . in real situations such as the solar system , where the perturber may be interior or exterior ( page 154 , morbidelli 2011 ) to the test particle and/or there may be higher order multiplicity effects ( due to perturbations from other giant planets than jupiter , lesser in strength compared to jovian perturbations ) , pure lidov - kozai still offers a convenient way to understand the dynamical behaviour .",
    "we shall use the term lidov - kozai like mechanism to cover these situations .",
    "this mechanism has been related to the rapid change in orbits of artificial satellites ( lidov 1962 ) around the earth .",
    "past works have shown that the lidov - kozai like mechanism can lead to a flip in orbits i.e.inclinations switching from prograde to retrograde or vice - versa ( naoz et al .",
    "2011 ; lithwick & naoz 2011 ; naoz et al .",
    "2013 ; li et al .",
    "2014b ) during the body s secular evolution .",
    "naoz et al .",
    "( 2011 ) discussed the possibility of orbital flips in hierarchical triple body systems for the first time in the context of exoplanet systems .",
    "bailey , chambers & hahn ( 1992 ) found that lidov - kozai ( here it is not pure lidov - kozai mechanism in strict terms but higher order multiplicity effects ) is an efficient way by which asteroidal and cometary orbits could land up in sunskirting or sungrazing orbits .",
    "the mechanism is known to have an important role in the long term evolution of different classes of small bodies ( vaubaillon , lamy & jorda 2006 ; granvik , vaubaillon & jedicke 2012 ) in the context of impact studies ( werner & ivanov 2015 ) due to the lidov - kozai like cycles in orbital elements which lead to complications in using analytical and numerical techniques ( manley , migliorini & bailey 1998 ) to compute impact probabilities from small bodies on planets .",
    "more recently there are examples found in the exoplanetary systems ( naoz et al .",
    "2013 ; li et al .  2014a",
    "; naoz 2016 ) which undergo lidov - kozai like oscillations around the central body thus showing the generality of this phenomenon in any suitable dynamical system .",
    "of the past studies mentioned above , the ones that pertain to the solar system have generally related to either of the two phenomena separately , not gr and lidov - kozai like effects happening at the same time .",
    "moreover previous works in exoplanet systems have indicated that gr precession can suppress kozai like oscillations in some cases ( naoz et al .",
    "2013 ) depending on the orbital elements phase space .",
    "hence it has been shown that one phenomenon can compete or dominate over another in exoplanet systems . again",
    ", this particular idea has not been well explored in the context of real solar system bodies .",
    "naoz et al .",
    "( 2013 ) showed that inclusion of gr precession can lead to re - triggering eccentricity excitations and orbital flips thereby pointing to the situation of both gr precession and kozai effect co - existing at the same time in exoplanet systems .    in this work ,",
    "we find real examples of solar system bodies where significant ( to be quantified later ) gr precession and lidov - kozai like behaviour can co - exist and complement each other , forming a continuum between the two regimes where the respective separate effects dominate .",
    "the lidov - kozai like mechanism leads to secular lowering of @xmath2 which in turn leads to a huge increase in gr precession of argument of pericentre @xmath3 .",
    "this in turn gives feedback to the lidov - kozai like mechanism as the @xmath0 , @xmath1 and @xmath3 cycles are closely correlated .",
    "a real solar system body , 96p / machholz 1 , exhibiting these trends by combining the two dynamical effects during present times is identified out of the hundreds of small bodies lying in the moderately low @xmath2 and moderately low @xmath4 ( semi - major axis ) phase space .",
    "this particular effect would be more pronounced especially when a body gradually evolves into a sungrazing and sun colliding orbit .",
    "the dynamical evolution becomes even more interesting when inclination flips occur , the secular lidov - kozai like reduction in @xmath2 applying in both prograde and retrograde cases .    for all calculations in this paper , newtonian n - body integrations",
    "were done using chambers ( 1999 ) mercury package incorporating the radau ( everhart 1985 ) and mvs ( mixed - variable symplectic : wisdom , holman & touma 1996 ) algorithms . for gr cases , mercury integrations included an additional sub - routine ( provided by g. li ) incorporating the gr corrections ( benitez & gallardo 2008 ) in the n - body code ; the mvs algorithm was used .",
    "the radau accuracy parameter was set to 10@xmath5 and the mvs time step was chosen as one day .",
    "each asteroid , comet and meteoroid particle was treated as a test particle ( i.e.  zero mass ) and integrated in the combined presence of the sun and eight planets mercury to neptune .",
    "non - gravitational forces were not considered in comets , nor radiative forces for asteroids and meteoroid streams , so that we can distinguish gr active and kozai like dynamics active spaces without additional complicating effects . in the gr - included integrations ,",
    "gr effects were taken into account for the evolution of all the big bodies ( i.e.  planets ) and small bodies involved . in the newtonian integrations , gr did not act on either big or small bodies . for all integrations the initial orbital elements ( taken from jpl - horizons : giorgini et al .",
    "1996 ) and initial epoch ( jd 2451000.5 ) of the eight planets remained the same , for uniformity in comparisons .",
    "hence every gr case presented here , and likewise every newtonian case , is based on an identical solar system model .",
    "cross - checks between radau and mvs newtonian integrations confirmed that either integrator could reproduce the same orbital evolution .",
    "searches for small bodies with various ranges of orbital elements used iau - mpc ( minor planet center ) and initial elements of specific bodies to be integrated were the latest epoch available from jpl - horizons .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab-96p ]",
    "although some areas of the solar system can be extremely chaotic in general , the test particles evolving in the gravitational models we present here appear to follow a reasonably predictable pattern , that is , the evolution of orbital elements into the future is predictable to a good degree as a function of initial epoch and initial orbital elements .",
    "this is supported by the different evolution of clones with initial separation @xmath6 au ( survival times in figure [ survivaltime ] varying up to several hundred yr ) , whereas with smaller @xmath7 au ( not plotted here ) then the clones have practically identical dynamical evolution .",
    "we have shown that there are bodies in the solar system in which both gr precession and lidov - kozai like mechanism can co - exist and be comparable in their effects and for which these complementary effects can be measured and identified using analytical and numerical techniques .",
    "thus there is a continuum of bodies encompassing , firstly gr precession dominant , secondly gr precession plus lidov - kozai like mechanism co - existing and finally lidov - kozai like mechanism dominant states which are all permissible in nature .",
    "a real solar system body in this intermediate state is identified using compiled observational records from iau - mpc , cometary catalogue , iau - mdc and performing analytical plus numerical tests on them .",
    "this intermediate state brings up the interesting possibility of drastic changes in gr precession rates ( at some points peaking to about 60 times that of mercury s gr precession ) during orbital evolution due to sungrazing and sun colliding phases induced by the lidov - kozai like mechanism , thus combining both these important effects in a unique and dynamically interesting way .",
    "/ machholz 1 stands out as the only real body identified ( from our simulations ) to be exhibiting these interesting traits , as well as inclination flips , in the near future .",
    "this study s purpose was to focus on the real small bodies in the solar system ( including the planetary perturbations during the present epoch ) exhibiting these two dynamical phenomena at the same time . for future work",
    ", it would be instructive to do a detailed abstract study , with only jupiter so as to induce the kozai mechanism ( in its pure form ) and exclude perturbations from other planets , mapping the entire keplerian elements phase space to find the boundaries between three regions namely , gr precession dominant regime , gr precession plus kozai mechanism co - existing regime and kozai mechanism dominant regime .",
    "one could then compare the stability and chaotic levels between these three regions .",
    "this would enable us to understand the various patterns in change of gr precession rates and the maximum rates of gr precession possible in a short time for bodies in our solar system due to sungrazing phases driven by strong lidov - kozai like oscillations . independently",
    ", a study of this nature could tell us the exact phase spaces which can contribute to possible sudden peaks in rates of gr precession due to kozai like oscillations in the context of stability of artificial satellite orbits ( rosengren et al .",
    "2015 ) so that precise measurements can be made for the confirmation of this combined phenomenon in future long term satellites depending on the phase space traversed .",
    "the authors thank smadar naoz for numerous valuable suggestions and improvements . sekhar and",
    "werner acknowledge the crater clock project ( 235058/f20 ) based at centre for earth evolution and dynamics ( through the centres of excellence scheme project number 223272 ( ceed ) funded by the research council of norway ) and usit uninett sigma2 computational resource allocation through the stallo cluster with project accounts notur nn9010k , nn9283k , norstore ns9010k and ns9029k .",
    "research at armagh observatory and planetarium is funded by the department for communities for n. ireland .",
    "vaubaillon thanks the cines supercomputing facility of france .",
    "li acknowledges matt payne for developing and providing the gr sub - routine for mercury .",
    "babadzhanov p. b. , obrubov yu .",
    "v. , 1987 , in ceplecha z. , pecina p. , eds , proc .",
    "vol .  2 , 10th european regional astronomy meeting of the iau , interplanetary matter .",
    "czechoslovak academy of sciences , ondejov , p.  141                        everhart e. , 1985 , in carusi a. , valsecchi g. b. , eds , astrophysics and space science library , vol .",
    "115 ( proc .",
    "iau colloq .",
    "83 ) , dynamics of comets : their origin and evolution .",
    "reidel , dordrecht , p.  185",
    "naoz s. 2016 , ara&a , 54 , 441 .",
    "ohtsuka k. , nakano s. , yoshikawa m. , 2003 , pasj , 55 , 321 .",
    "quinn t. r. , tremaine s. , duncan m. , 1991 , aj , 101 , 2287 .",
    "rosengren a. j. , alessi e. m. , rossi a. , valsecchi g. b. , 2015 , mnras , 449 , 3522 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> both general relativistic ( gr ) precession and the lidov - kozai mechanism , separately , are known to play an important role in the orbital evolution of solar system bodies . </S>",
    "<S> previous works have studied these two mechanisms independently in great detail . however , both these phenomena occurring at the same time in real solar system bodies have rarely been explored . in this work , </S>",
    "<S> we find a continuum connecting the gr precession dominant and lidov - kozai like mechanism dominant regimes , i.e.  an intermediate regime where the competing effects of gr precession and lidov - kozai like oscillations co - exist simultaneously . </S>",
    "<S> we find some real examples in the solar system in this intermediate regime . </S>",
    "<S> moreover we identify a rare example amongst them , comet 96p / machholz 1 , which shows significant changes in the rates of gr precession ( an order of magnitude higher than mercury s gr precession rate ) due to sungrazing and sun colliding phases induced by lidov - kozai like oscillations . </S>",
    "<S> this comet s combination of orbital elements and initial conditions ( at the present epoch ) favour this measurable rapid change in gr precession ( at some points peaking up to 60 times mercury s gr precession rate ) along with prograde - retrograde inclination flip ( due to lidov - kozai like oscillations ) . </S>",
    "<S> similar tests are performed for hundreds of bodies lying in the moderately low perihelion distance and moderately low semi - major axis phase space in the solar system , the present lowest perihelion distance asteroid 322p / soho 1 , and further examples connected with 96p / machholz 1 namely , the marsden and kracht families of sungrazing comets plus low perihelion meteoroid streams like daytime arietids ( ari ) and southern delta aquariids ( sda ) .    </S>",
    "<S> general relativistic precession , lidov - kozai oscillations , comets , asteroids , meteoroids , satellites </S>"
  ]
}