{
  "article_text": [
    "the online social media has being becoming an essential component of everyday life , which even reflects all aspects of human behavior .",
    "millions of users have digitalized and virtualized themselves in popular platforms like twitter and weibo , including basic demographics , plenty of statuses , abundant emotions and diverse activities .",
    "these online profiles can be natural , detailed , long - term and objective footprints of massive individuals and thus they could be promising proxies in understanding human personalities  @xcite . since its beginning being a sub - discipline of psychology , the study of human personalities has aimed at one general goal , which is to describe and explain the significant psychological differences between individuals .",
    "revealing the connection between different personalities and corresponding behavioral patterns , especially in the circumstance of online social media , is one of the most exciting issues  @xcite in recent decades .",
    "and a growing body of evidence implying individual personality discrepancy in online social media further makes it imperative in probing online human behavior from views of personalities  @xcite .",
    "personality is a stable set of characteristics and tendencies which specify similarities and differences in individuals psychological behavior and it is also a dominant factor in shaping human thoughts , feelings and actions .",
    "however , personality traits , like many other psychological dimensions , are latent and hard to be measured directly .",
    "self - report of asking subjects to fill survey questionnaires referring to personalities is a classical way to assess respondents in the conventional studies  @xcite , while its limitations are inevitable and can be summarized as :    * expensiveness .",
    "questionnaires in self - reports can be much time - consuming and costly and even worse , the response rate might be unexpectedly low  @xcite and all these concerns will badly reduce the valid number of participants , which is generally below 1,000  @xcite . and it is challenging to come to persuasive and universal conclusions based on such a small number of samples . *",
    "respondents fill in the questionnaires mainly based on their cognition , memory or feelings , and they could hide the true responses or thoughts consciously or unconsciously while facing the questions . particularly for self - reports",
    "referring personalities , they might even not recollect the circumstance exactly in the controlled lab environments . * low flexibility .",
    "questionnaires are generally designed according to the study assumptions before conducting the experiments and it is hard to obtain insights that out of the scope of the previously established goals , i.e. , existing self - reports might be much less inspiring because of lacking extension .    to some extent , the above limitations can be overcome because of the emergence of crowdsourcing marketplaces like amazon mechanical turk ( mturk ) , which offer many practical advantages that reduce costs and make massive recruitments feasible  @xcite and become dominant sources of experimental data for social scientists .",
    "while in the meantime , new concerns are brought in  @xcite .",
    "for example , researchers concern that the volunteers are less numerous and diverse than their hope , while turkers complain that the reward is too low .",
    "in addition , mturk has suffered from the growing participant non - naivety  @xcite . accounting for these shortages ,",
    "the recent progress in machine learning , especially the idea of computation driven solutions in social sciences  @xcite , shows an increasing interest in modeling and understanding of human behavior such as personalities .",
    "indeed , the popularity of online social media provides a great opportunity to examine personality inference using significant amounts of data . taking weibo as an example ,",
    "about 100 million chinese tweets are posted everyday and from which we can sense the online behavior of 500 million users of tremendously diverse backgrounds .",
    "the development report from weibo in 2015 officially shows the number of monthly active users is around 222 million .",
    "these numbers imply further that the availability of vast and rich datasets of active individuals digital fingerprints from online social media will unprecedentedly increase the scale and granularity in measuring and understanding human behavior , especially for personalities , because the cost of the experiment will be essential reduced , the objectivity of the samples will be convincingly guaranteed and the flexibility of the data will be adequately amplified . at the same time , there are new opportunities to combine social media with traditional surveys in personality psychology .",
    "kosinski et al .",
    "demonstrate that available digital records in facebook can be used to automatically and accurately predict personalities  @xcite . with the help of developments in machine learning",
    ", computer models can make valid personality prediction , even outperform the self - reported personalty scores  @xcite . in this study",
    ", we argue that from the perspective of computational social science , profiles of active users in weibo can be excellent proxies in probing the interplay between personalities and online behavior .",
    "an online page with a 60-items version of the big - five personality inventory is established first in our study to collect scores on personality traits  @xcite and a total of 293 valid users in weibo are asked to finish the self - report on this page , which provides a baseline for the following study .",
    "focusing on extraversion , the scores mainly follow gaussian distribution and the subjects are accordingly divided into three groups of high , neutral and low scores on extraversion . then by collecting online profiles of those self - reporters from weibo , a map between the self - reports of extraversion and the online profiles is built to train machine learning models that can automatically evaluate the extraversion of much more individuals without the help of self - reports .",
    "three kinds of features , including 13 basic ones , 33 behavioral ones and 84 linguistic ones are comprehensively considered in the svm model and its performance is also convincingly justified by cross - validations . with over 7,000 users being labeled as extroverts or introverts by the model , we attempt to systematically study the difference of online behavior caused by extraversion through investigating into the following seven research questions :    * rq1*. do extroverts and introverts tweet temporally differently in weibo ?",
    "* rq2*. do extroverts and introverts tweet spatially differently in weibo ?",
    "* rq3*. what types of information do extroverts and introverts prefer to share ?",
    "* rq4*. who is more socially active in the online circumstance , extroverts or introverts ?    * rq5*. who pay more attention to online purchasing and shopping , extroverts or introverts ?",
    "* rq6*. do extroverts and introverts express emotions differently in weibo ?",
    "* rq7*. who care more about the online virtual honor , extroverts or introverts ?    according to these questions ,",
    "unexpected differences in online behavior of extroverts and introverts are disclosed .",
    "introverts post more frequently than extroverts , especially at the daytime .",
    "however , extroverts visit different cities instead of staying at just one familiar city as the introvert does",
    ". the spatial discrepancy can be more unintuitive as we zoom in to better resolutions , for example , introverts tend to check in themselves while shopping , however , extroverts enjoy posting at working places .",
    "in addition , a tiny fraction of introverts might attempt to camouflage their own loneliness to others by tweeting with a large number of different areas ( @xmath0 ) .",
    "extroverts enjoy sharing music and selfies while introverts prefer retweeting news . as to online interactions , extroverts mention friends more than introverts , implying higher social vibrancy . by presenting a purchasing index to depict the online buying intention , we find that as compared to the extrovert , introverts devote more efforts in posting shopping tweets to relieve the loneliness due to a lack of social interaction with others .",
    "we also categorize the emotion delivered in tweets into anger , disgust , happiness , sadness , and fear  @xcite and find that introverts post more angry and fearful ( high arousal ) tweets and extroverts post more sad ( low arousal ) ones .",
    "finally , extroverts attach more meanings to the online virtual honor than introverts do , implying that they might be ideal candidates for online promoting campaigns with virtual honor . to our best knowledge , this is the first study to completely compare the online behavior of extroverts and introverts over large - scale samples and our findings will be helpful in understanding the role of personalities in shaping human behavior .",
    "several well studied models have been established for personality traits and in which big - five model is the most popular one  @xcite . in this model ,",
    "human personality can be depicted from five dimensions , including openness , neuroticism , extraversion , agreeableness and conscientiousness and the personality type could be identified through individual s behavior over the time and circumstances .",
    "the internet , one of the most pervasive circumstance today , has in fact profoundly changed the human behavior and experience . with its explosive development",
    ", lots of research efforts have been devoted in investigating the relation between personality and internet usage .",
    "for example , the findings of amiel et al .",
    "demonstrate that distinctive patterns of internet use and usage motives for those of different personality types and extroverts made more goal - oriented use of internet services  @xcite . focusing on online social media , as the vital component of the internet , extraversion and openness to experiences",
    "are found to be positively related with social media adoptions  @xcite .    in the meantime ,",
    "it was also pointed out that users psychological traits could be inferred through their digital fingerprints in online social media  @xcite .",
    "golbeck et al .",
    "proposed to bridge the gap between personality study and social media and demonstrated that social media ( facebook and twitter ) profiles can reflect personality traits  @xcite .",
    "they suggested that the number of parentheses used is negatively correlated with extraversion , however , explanations beyond the correlation is not provided and probing the correlations over a larger data set still remains necessary .",
    "quercia et al . employed numbers of followees , followers and tweets to learn the personality and suggested that both popular users and influentials are extroverts with stable emotions  @xcite .",
    "besides , patterns in language use of online social media , like words , phrases and topics also offer a way to reveal personalities  @xcite .",
    "for example , using dimensionality reduction for the facebook likes of participants , kosinski et al . proposed a model to predict individual psycho - demographic profiles  @xcite .",
    "as for social media in china , weibo and renren become the ideal platforms for conducting personality research  @xcite . considering the recent progress that computer algorithms outperform humans in personality judgment  @xcite , online social media indeed offer unprecedented opportunities for personality inferring and human behavior understanding .    each bipolar dimension ( like extraversion ) in big - five model summarizes several facets , which subsumes lots of more specific traits ( extraversion vs. introversion ) . in this paper , we focus on the extraversion which is an indispensable dimension of personality traits .",
    "many efforts from previous studies have been delivered to reveal the connection between extraversion and online behaviors and can be roughly reviewed from the following perspectives .    * social interactions * highly extroverted individuals tend to have broad social communications with others  @xcite .",
    "for instance , extraversion generally positively related to the number of facebook friends  @xcite .",
    "gosling et al",
    ". also found particularly strong consensus about facebook profile - based personality assessment for extroverts  @xcite .",
    "however , ross et al .",
    "@xcite showed that extroverts are not necessarily associated with more facebook friends , which are contrary to later results of bachrach et al .",
    "@xcite and hamburger et al .",
    "@xcite . through posting tweets",
    ", extroverts are more actively sharing their lives and feelings with other people and the personality traits might shape the language styles in social media . in english , extroverts are more likely to mention social words such as ` party ' and ` love you ' , whereas introverts are more likely to mention words related to solitary activities such as ` computer ' and ` internet '  @xcite . referring to chinese , extraversion is positively correlated with personal pronouns , indicating that extroverts tend to be more concerned about others  @xcite .",
    "* buying intention * extraversion , as one personality trait , is one of main factor in in driving online behaviors including buying , and hence exploring the relationship between extraversion and shopping is a valuable topic .",
    "desarbo and edwards found that individuals of social isolation tend to perform compulsive buyings in efforts to relieve the feelings of loneliness due to a lack of interaction with others  @xcite .",
    "however , the results of subsequent studies about the relationship between compulsive buying and extraversion are inconsistent  @xcite .",
    "* emotion expression * in psychology , it is widely believed that extraversion is associated with higher positive affect , namely extroverts experience increased positive emotions  @xcite .",
    "extroverts are also more likely to utilize the supplementary entertainment services provided by social media , which bring them more happiness  @xcite . while , qiu et al .",
    "suggested that highly extroverted participants do use it to relieve their existential anxiety in social media  @xcite .",
    "thus , it is necessary to investigate the relation between various emotions and extraversion rather than only the positive affect .",
    "however , most existing studies built their conclusions on self - reports from very small samples and the lacking of data or objectivity leads to inconsistent or even conflicting results .",
    "moreover , a comprehensive understanding of how extroverts and introverts behave differently in the circumstance of online social media still remains unclear .",
    "hence in this study , we try to employ machine learning models to identify and establish a large group of samples and then investigate the behavioral difference from diverse aspects , aiming at offering solid evidence and comprehensive views .",
    "the big - five model is the most accepted and commonly used model in depicting human personalities  @xcite and quite a few measuring instruments have also been developed to assess the big - five personality traits . in this study ,",
    "a web page with a 60-question version of the big - five personality inventory  @xcite is built to collect self - reported scores on different personality traits .",
    "we target on weibo users for voluntary participants recruitment and invitations were sent via both online and offline manners ranging from december 1 , 2014 to march 31 , 2015 .",
    "all the participants are manually checked and only valid ones in weibo ( can be identified by the weibo i d , a unique identification for each user ) are considered .",
    "finally a total of 293 valid participants are selected in the following study ( 144 men and 149 women ) and the age of all participants ranges from 19 to 25 .",
    "it is worth noting that according to the official report of weibo in 2015 , users with age between 17 to 33 occupy around 80% of its population , indicating that our refined samples of self - reports can sufficiently represent the most users in weibo .",
    "we focus on the extraversion of big - five personality traits in this study , which measures a personal tendency to seek stimulation in the external world , company of others , and express positive emotions  @xcite .",
    "people who score high in extraversion ( called extroverts ) are generally outgoing , energetic and friendly . on the contrary , introverts are more likely to be solitary and seek environments characterized by lower levels of external simulation . the distribution of scores from 293 valid samples ( weibo users ) on extraversion is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : ext_dist ] . the scores",
    "follow a typical gaussian distribution with @xmath1 ( mean value ) being 39.03 and @xmath2 ( standard deviation ) being 7.55 .",
    "it can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : ext_dist ] that the probability of scores near the mean value is relatively higher than the occurrence of both high scores and low scores , implying that a significant fraction of samples report the neutral scores on extraversion and they can be intuitively categorized to the type of without much significantly distinct personality , i.e. , neither extroverts nor introverts . because of this , it is reasonable to divide samples into three groups including extroverts ( with high scores and labeled as 1 ) , neutrals ( with scores around the mean and labeled as 0 ) and introverts ( with low scores and labeled as -1 ) .",
    "specifically , extroverts are samples with scores more than 42.81 ( @xmath3 ) , introverts are users with scores less than 35.25 ( @xmath4 ) and neutrals represent users whose scores ranging from 35.25 to 42.81 . the thresholds ( @xmath5 )",
    "are set to balance the size of three categories , aiming at avoid the bias in machine learning models . by labeling 293 valid samples into three categories",
    ", we can obtain a training set for establishing and evaluating machine learning models that do not need the help of self - reports .        with the permission granted by valid samples in the self - reports , we continuously collect their online profiles until march 1 , 2016 , including demographics and posted tweets through weibo s open apis . in order to guarantee the quality of the data , only users with more than 100 tweets",
    "are remained to build the training set , including 45 extroverts ( 1 ) , 44 introverts ( -1 ) and 56 neutrals ( 0 ) .",
    "the training data is generally balanced on the three classification labels , especially for extroverts and introverts , which is helpful to avoid the bias of the machine learning model .      as reviewed in the former section that many aspects of online profiles have been previously found to be connected with users personalities , hence for the purpose of establishing a competent classifier to convincingly identify the three categories of extraversion without the help of self - reports , we try to extract as many features as we can from the digital and textual records and these features are roughly grouped into basic ones , interactive ones and linguistic ones .",
    "details of different kinds of features are introduced as follows , respectively .    *",
    "basic features * basic features are selected to reflect the user s demographics , preliminary statuses and elementary interactions in the social media , including gender , tweeting patterns and privacy settings . specifically ,",
    "tweeting patterns contain @xmath6 ( where @xmath7 is the age of a user in weibo since its register with unit of day ) , @xmath8 ( where @xmath9 refers to the total number of tweets the user posted ) , @xmath10 ( which is defined to represent the frequency of posting ) , @xmath11 ( where @xmath12 is defined as the number of the user s followers ) , @xmath13 ( in which @xmath14 denotes the number of the users followees ) , @xmath15 , and @xmath16 .",
    "with respect to the privacy settings , corresponding binary features are compromised by whether a user allows comments from others , whether the user allows private messages sent from others and whether the user allows weibo tracking its real - time locations .",
    "in addition , we consider the length of self - description as the feature .    * interactive features * interactive features are designed to reflect the sophisticated patterns of social interactions in weibo at different time granularities of days or weeks . here",
    "the social interaction includes posting , mentioning , and retweeting that have been verified to be key behaviors on the extraversion in the previous study .",
    "specifically , for a certain time granularity , daily or weekly and a certain social interaction , a vector composed by averaged occurrences of the interaction ( over the entire life of a user in our collection ) at different hours or days of a week is first calculated and then from this vector , following features are extracted : ( 1 ) the average number of interactions , ( 2 ) the hour or day with the most interactions , ( 3 ) the maximum of occurrence of the hourly or daily interaction , ( 4 ) the hour or day with the least occurrence of the interaction , ( 5 ) the variance of the integration occurrence on different hours or days . besides , the proportions of the tweets containing mentionings and retweetings are also considered as features to reflect the user s interactive intensity .",
    "* linguistic features * previous efforts on extraversion explorations have demonstrated that language styles in social media can be effectively indicators to infer personality traits .",
    "because of this , we collect 261 terms that could describe the personality traits , including both chinese and english , to linguistically model the tweets posted by users of different groups .",
    "after preprocessing the text , all tweets posted by a user is combined to form a document to represent the user s language style and all user s documents compose the corpus .",
    "then the classic tf - idf scores are employed to evaluate the 261 terms and the top 84 terms  @xcite are selected to extract linguistic features .",
    "specifically , for any term within the 84 selected ones , if it occurs in a document ( corresponding to a user ) its feature value will be 1 otherwise 0 .",
    "this method , called bag - of - word , is always utilized in natural language processing  @xcite .",
    "meanwhile , we also consider the average length of tweets posted by the user .",
    "it is worth noting that in our dataset of online profiles , there are significant differences in the scale of the extracted features . in order to train an unbiased machine models ,",
    "feature standardization is indeed a necessary requirement .",
    "we perform the standardization and transform each feature into the range between zero and one .",
    "the transformation is given by @xmath17 where @xmath18 is the @xmath19-th item in the feature set @xmath20 , @xmath21 is the maximal value of @xmath20 , and @xmath22 is the minimal value of @xmath20 .    in summary , we extract 130 features in total for each weibo user , including 13 basic features , 32 interactive features and 85 linguistic features , which will be input of the machine learning models .",
    "based on the training data and feature set obtained from the previous sections , three popular machine learning models , including random forest , naive bayes and support vector machine ( svm ) are employed to approach the 3-categories classification problem for extraversion . and regarding to the optimization algorithm of svm , we choose c - svm ( multi - class classification ) as the solution and rbf as the kernel function .",
    "we adapt 10-fold cross - validation to examine the average accuracy of different models .",
    ".the average accuracy and f1-score of machine learning models . [ cols= \"",
    "< , < , < , < , < \" , ]      tweets in social media not only deliver the factual information but also feelings of users and these feelings can be automatically identified into different emotions by mining only texts of tweets  @xcite .",
    "because it is widely believed that extraversion is associated with higher positive affect , namely , extroverts may experience more positive emotions  @xcite , thus in this study we try to investigate the differences between extroverts and introverts from the perspective of emotion expressions . by employing a previously built system named moodlens  @xcite , we can categorize each tweet into one of five emotions , including anger , disgust , happiness , sadness and fear .",
    "note that the tweets without significant emotional propensity will be ignored .",
    "then for each individual , either extrovert or introvert , we calculate its emotion index for all five sentiments , which is defined as the fraction the corresponding emotional tweets in its tweeting history and quantificationally represents its emotional disposition in social media .",
    "[ fig : emotion ] demonstrates cdfs and pdfs of five emotion indexes of extroverts and introverts , respectively . as can be seen , at the same anger index level ( @xmath23 ) ,",
    "fear index level ( @xmath24 ) and disgust index level ( @xmath25 ) , the probabilities of introverts are always larger than that of extroverts , implying that introverts post more tweets of negative feelings than extroverts .",
    "however , for sadness index and happiness index , the probabilities of introverts are always less than extroverts , suggesting that extroverts tweet joy or sadness with more likelihood .",
    "note that as can be seen in figs .",
    "[ fig : happiness ] and [ fig : disgust ] , the difference on happiness index and disgust index might be subtle but the welch s test testifies the significance with @xmath26 .",
    "our finding is consistent with the previous statement that extraversion is associated with higher positive affect , however , in the meantime we also offer evidence that introversion is associated with the high arousal and negative affections like anger , fear and disgust and extraversion is positively correlated with sadness . indeed with the help of data - driven approaches on large samples ,",
    "our study can testify the existing conclusion and gain new insights at the same time .",
    "weibo grants many optional badges to users , which they have to `` lighten '' through finishing necessary operations following demand of the social media .",
    "for instance , the users should connect the weibo account and the taobao account if they would like to get the `` binding - taobao '' badge .",
    "this behavior , exposing the taobao account to the social media , is a risk of property security and privacy .",
    "however , the badges that users obtained are displayed publicly to the others and treated as honor in the virtual world .",
    "because of this , a user s response to badges can be an indicator of its attitude to the virtual honor in social media .",
    "then we investigate the difference of attitudes to virtual honor of extroverts and introverts , respectively .",
    "the `` binding - taobao '' badge is regarded as one relevant badge to perform the difference analysis and the distribution between extroverts and introverts of `` binding - taobao '' badges is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : badge ] .",
    "the percentage of extroverts with the `` binding - taobao '' badge is 60.7% and that without the badge is 39.3% .",
    "the percentage of introverts with the `` binding - taobao '' badge is 53.9% and that without the badge is 46.1% .",
    "it s obvious that the proportion of extroverts who obtain `` binding - taobao '' badges is larger than that of introverts .",
    "besides , we also examine other various badges in weibo , including `` red envelope 2015 '' , `` public welfare '' , `` travel 2013 '' , `` red envelope 2014 '' and etc .",
    "all the statistics of the badge indicate that extroverts tend to prefer badges than introverts do , in other words , extroverts attach more importance to the online virtual honor .        to sum up , from perspectives of tempo - spatial patterns , online activities , emotion expressions and attitudes to virtual honor , we establish a comprehensive picture of how extroverts tweet differently from introverts in social media .",
    "personality traits , like extraversion , are believed to play fundamental roles in driving human actions , however , a detailed and comprehensive understanding of how people with different personality traits behave is still missing , especially in the circumstance of the social media , which has been becoming an indispensable part of our daily life to date .",
    "meanwhile , the lacking of large samples and the unavoidable subjectivity mean the conventional manners like self - reports may bring about bias on this issue . hence in this study , we argue that starting from a small - scale but refined voluntary samples , establishing a map between self - reports and online profiles can help train a machine learning model to automatically infer massive individuals personalities objectively without the costly expense on survey questionnaires .",
    "indeed , the svm classifier help us filter out over 7,000 extroverts and introverts from weibo and to our best knowledge , build the first complete picture of how extroverts and introverts tweet differently in social media from perspectives like tempo - spatial patterns , online activities , emotion expressions and attitudes to virtual honor . not only obtaining consistent conclusions with existing statements from traditional ways , new and insightful conclusions are",
    "also systematically revealed .",
    "our findings offer solid evidence to the feasibility of machine learning based approach in personality research and will shed lights on realistic applications like online marketing and behavior understandings .",
    "this study has inevitable limitations .",
    "for example , according to the big - five model , the individual personality also possesses other traits like openness , conscientiousness and so on , which will be promising directions in our future work .",
    "this work was supported by nsfc ( grant no . 71501005 ) and the fund of the state key lab of software development environment ( grant nos . sklsde-2015zx-05 and sklsde-2015zx-28 ) .",
    "10 url # 1`#1`urlprefixhref # 1#2#2 # 1#1                t.  ryan , s.  xenos , who uses facebook ?",
    "an investigation into the relationship between the big five , shyness , narcissism , loneliness , and facebook usage , computers in human behavior 27  ( 5 ) ( 2011 ) 16581664 .",
    "t.  e. simoncic , k.  r. kuhlman , i.  vargas , s.  houchins , n.  l. lopez - duran , facebook use and depressive symptomatology : investigating the role of neuroticism and extraversion in youth , computers in human behavior 40 ( 2014 ) 15 .",
    "b.  w. roberts , o.  s. chernyshenko , s.  stark , l.  r. goldberg , the structure of conscientiousness : an empirical investigation based on seven major personality questionnaires , personnel psychology 58  ( 1 ) ( 2005 ) 103139 .",
    "k.  b. wright , researching internet - based populations : advantages and disadvantages of online survey research , online questionnaire authoring software packages , and web survey services , journal of computer - mediated communication 10  ( 3 ) ( 2005 ) 0000 .",
    "d.  lazer , a.  pentland , l.  adamic , s.  aral , a .-",
    "barabsi , d.  brewer , n.  christakis , n.  contractor , j.  fowler , m.  gutmann , t.  jebara , g.  king , m.  macy , d.  roy , m.  van  alstyne , computational social science , science 323  ( 5915 ) ( 2009 ) 721723 .",
    "n.  b. ellison , c.  steinfield , c.  lampe , the benefits of facebook friends : social capital and college students use of online social network sites , journal of computer - mediated communication 12  ( 4 ) ( 2007 ) 11431168 .",
    "e.  y.  l. ong , r.  p. ang , j.  c.  m. ho , j.  c.  y. lim , d.  h. goh , c.  s. lee , a.  y.  k. chua , narcissism , extraversion and adolescents self - presentation on facebook , personality and individual differences 50  ( 2 ) ( 2011 ) 180185 .",
    "j.  golbeck , c.  robles , k.  turner , predicting personality with social media , in : international conference on human factors in computing systems , chi 2011 , extended abstracts volume , vancouver , bc , canada , may , 2011 , pp . 253262 .",
    "h.  a. schwartz , j.  c. eichstaedt , m.  l. kern , l.  dziurzynski , s.  m. ramones , m.  agrawal , a.  shah , m.  kosinski , d.  stillwell , m.  e. seligman , et  al . , personality , gender , and age in the language of social media : the open - vocabulary approach , plos one 8  ( 9 ) ( 2013 ) e73791 .",
    "s.  bai , r.  gao , t.  zhu , determining personality traits from renren status usage behavior .",
    ", in : computational visual media : first international conference , cvm 2012 , beijing , china , november 8 - 10 , 2012 .",
    "proceedings , pp . 226233 .",
    "s.  deng , y.  liu , h.  li , f.  hu , how does personality matter ?",
    "an investigation of the impact of extraversion on individuals sns use , cyberpsychology , behavior , and social networking 16  ( 8) ( 2013 ) 575581 .",
    "m.  ye , p.",
    "yin , w .- c .",
    "lee , exploiting geographical influence for collaborative point - of - interest recommendation , in : proceedings of the 34th international acm sigir conference on research and development in information retrieval , acm , 2011 , pp .",
    "325334 .    p.",
    "sorokowski , a.  sorokowska , a.  oleszkiewicz , t.  frackowiak , a.  huk , k.  pisanski , selfie posting behaviors are associated with narcissism among men , personality and individual differences 85 ( 2015 ) 123127 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> being dominant factors driving the human actions , personalities can be excellent indicators in predicting the offline and online behavior of different individuals . however , because of the great expense and inevitable subjectivity in questionnaires and surveys , it is challenging for conventional studies to explore the connection between personality and behavior and gain insights in the context of large amount individuals . considering the more and more important role of the online social media in daily communications , we argue that the footprint of massive individuals , like tweets in weibo , can be the inspiring proxy to infer the personality and further understand its functions in shaping the online human behavior . in this study , a map from self - reports of personalities to online profiles of 293 active users in weibo is established to train a competent machine learning model , which then successfully identifies over 7,000 users as extroverts or introverts . </S>",
    "<S> systematical comparisons from perspectives of tempo - spatial patterns , online activities , emotion expressions and attitudes to virtual honor surprisingly disclose that the extrovert indeed behaves differently from the introvert in weibo . </S>",
    "<S> our findings provide solid evidence to justify the methodology of employing machine learning to objectively study personalities of massive individuals and shed lights on applications of probing personalities and corresponding behaviors solely through online profiles .    </S>",
    "<S> personality , extraversion , social media , machine learning </S>"
  ]
}