{
  "article_text": [
    "in order to connect a huge number of devices as the internet of things ( iot )  @xcite , individual devices have to be manufactured at a low cost .",
    "this has also led to the technical issue of providing an inexpensive secure i d function in each device .",
    "thus , research and development has focused on using the variability in each individual device as the chip fingerprint . a physically unclonable function ( puf )",
    "is considered to be one of the mechanisms of protecting personal information by providing a unique i d for each device at a low cost . in the authentication process by a server , a puf outputs a response i d to a challenge signal from the server .",
    "if the puf output is identified as the preregistered i d , the local device is authenticated .",
    "the origins of the puf signal come from process variations of transistors and circuits . as transistor size has shrunk ,",
    "various kinds of variation have emerged , resulting in an increasing number of proposals of many types of puf@xcite . in particular",
    ", the puf using ring oscillators ( ros )  @xcite has an advantage in that it can be implemented in commercial field - programmable gate arrays ( fpgas ) without difficulty and its stability is proven  @xcite .",
    "however , previous ro - pufs using the frequency difference between ro pairs [ fig .  1(a ) ] have disadvantages : the number of ro pairs corresponds to the length of the i d , with the result that a large number of ros are required , and a continuous running of ro is undesirable from the viewpoint of power consumption .",
    "for example , suh and devadas  @xcite estimated that 128 pairs of oscillators ( 256 oscillators total ) are required to generate 128 independent bits .",
    "in this study , we provide an ro - puf using the waveform of ros based on conventional 65 nm cmos technology .",
    "the output waveform of ros changes depending on each chip and provides a long i d by a single pair of ros . since the puf i d is obtained after a couple of ro cycles , low power consumption is realized .",
    "recently , in ref .",
    "@xcite we have reported the implementation of a similar type of ro - puf in commercial fpga boards . because the placement and routing of circuits are automatically carried out ,",
    "the circuit elements are arranged at a considerable distance from each other in fpga .",
    "thus , the puf circuit can not avoid inclusion of a noisy global wiring .",
    "in asic devices , we can arrange the puf circuit such that circuit elements are arranged in close proximity to each other to reduce unexpected noises . here , we have designed the puf circuits with a custom layout using standard logic cells , and found that the puf performance is improved by asic chips .",
    "we also investigated the coupling effects of ros in our puf circuit .",
    "the remainder of this paper is organized as follows : in sect .  2",
    ", we describe our proposal of an ro - puf using initial waveforms of ring oscillators . in sect .  3 , we present our experimental results of an ro - puf based on 65 nm cmos chips . in sect .  4",
    ", we estimate the puf performance quantitatively .",
    "our conclusions are summarized in sect .",
    "the origin of a puf is the process variation of transistors and circuits , and the previously proposed ro - pufs show that process variations appear in the frequency of ros  @xcite .",
    "the frequency difference among different ros means that the period of one cycle between rising edges differs depending on each ro .",
    "thus , it is natural to consider that the waveform difference of an ro can be used as the source of a puf ( wro - puf ) .",
    "the ro begins to oscillate when the supply voltage is applied or when the enable switch is turned on . when the initial output value of the ro is 0 , the time to the first rising edge of oscillation signals differs depending on each ro .",
    "figure  1(b ) shows our proposed puf unit consisting of two ros . because the frequency of ro1 ( @xmath01 ghz ) is much higher than the clock frequency of the conventional circuit board ( @xmath050 - 100 mhz ) , in order to capture the oscillation signal of the ro1 at a higher time resolution , we use ro2 as the sampling clock of ff .",
    "figure  [ circuit ] shows the whole puf circuit including reading ffs , where the number of ffs corresponds to the i d length . here ,",
    "experiments are carried out with 16 bits .",
    "the mechanism of our puf is shown in fig .",
    "[ waveform ] .",
    "when @xmath1 , the ros start to oscillate from the initial value of 0 .",
    "the time to the first rising edge differs depending on ros .",
    "when the period of the waveform of ro1 is longer than that of ro2 ( @xmath2 ) , the initial value of the output in fig .  [ waveform](a ) is 0 . when @xmath3 , the initial value of the output in fig .",
    "[ waveform](a ) is 1 .",
    "this mechanism resembles that of the conventional ro - pufs .",
    "moreover , because the waveforms are analog data , the relative difference @xmath4 between two waveforms is the origin of new degrees of freedom when they are digitized .",
    "figures  [ waveform](c ) and [ waveform](d ) show examples where the output signal ( out ) pattern of the wro - puf changes depending on the relative change @xmath5 even when we limit @xmath2 .",
    "@xmath6 and @xmath7 for the difference , even when we limit @xmath2 .      in the basic unit of our puf [ fig .",
    "1(b ) ] , the relative frequency between two ros determines the waveform of the puf - id . as ref .",
    "@xcite shows that the coupling of ros improves the delay control , we have also implemented modified puf circuits whose units are shown in fig .",
    "[ couple ] .",
    "figure  [ couple](a ) shows a puf circuit of electrically coupled ros , and fig .",
    "[ couple](b ) shows that of capacitively coupled ros .",
    "figure  [ chip ] shows a photomicrograph of an ro - puf chip obtained using 65 nm cmos technology where the macrosize is 273@xmath828 @xmath9m@xmath10 .",
    "we measured 10 chips .",
    "i d is determined by the pattern of the wro - puf output that appears most frequently .",
    "the most important metric for estimating puf performance is the hamming distance ( hd ) , which is the number of different bits between two outputs .",
    "the intra - hd represents the reproducibility of each chip , and the inter - hd represents the uniqueness between different chips .",
    "a sharp distribution at around hd=0 and a sufficient gap between the intra - hd and the inter - hd indicate the ideal hd distribution .",
    "the ideal inter - hd is distributed around half of the i d length .    first , let us show the result of the modified puf in fig .",
    "[ couple ] .",
    "it is found that the ro - puf formed by cross - coupled inverters [ fig .",
    "[ couple](a ) ] only output fixed values and did not work as a puf .",
    "this shows that this coupling is very strong for detecting the variation of the puf output .",
    "figure  [ hdw ] shows the measured results for the modified puf circuit in fig .",
    "[ couple](b ) . here ,",
    "samplings are carried out by repeating @xmath11 and @xmath1 .",
    "figure  [ hdw ] shows that the intra - hd of the wro - puf with a capacitive coupling is not ideal because the result indicated that the same i d is not always produced with a high probability .",
    "figure  [ hdwo ] shows the result of the hd in fig .",
    "[ circuit ] .",
    "we can see that the identification of each chip is excellent ( hd=0 ) and well distinct from those of the other chips .",
    "these results show that the simplest form of the wro - puf is the best form of the wro - puf .",
    "ten chips are measured where 5000 i d output data are estimated .",
    "eight ro pairs of a 32 bit i d are combined .",
    "the ( 31 , 16 , 7 ) binary bose - chaudhuri - hocquenghem ( bch ) error - correcting code is applied.,width=302 ]    .",
    "ten chips are measured where 5000 i d output data are estimated .",
    "two ro pairs of a 32 bit i d are combined . the ( 31 , 16 , 7 ) binary bch error - correcting code is applied.,width=302 ]      as shown in ref .",
    "@xcite , ro frequency changes as the physical environment changes .",
    "figure  [ voltage ] shows the shift of the average hamming distance estimated from a 1.3 v operation over ten chips of the wro - puf without coupling .",
    "we can see a linear dependence between the voltage difference and the shift in the average hamming distance .",
    "this is the same tendency as the temperature dependence shown in ref .",
    "@xcite . because the i d should be unique",
    ", a change of the i d is undesirable . to solve this problem",
    ", we can utilize the linear dependence of the voltage during the i d shift by monitoring voltage .",
    "that is , the i d is corrected depending on the difference in the measured voltage from the reference voltage .",
    "otherwise , a feedback circuit for stabilizing the supply voltage will be required  @xcite .",
    "figure  [ regulator ] shows a schematic of a typical voltage regulator .",
    "because the change in frequency depending on the change in voltage is a general aspect of an ro - puf , these kinds of additional circuits will be required in other conventional ro - puf circuits . in any event ,",
    "this is a problem to be addressed in future studies .",
    "we would like to quantitatively compare our ro - puf with the previously proposed ro - puf  @xcite .",
    "first , let us compare the areas of both pufs , when 128 bit outputs are required . for our wro - puf circuit , we prepare two sets of ro pairs [ fig .",
    "[ circuit ] ] , each of which outputs more than 64 bits .",
    "then , our wro - puf has 4 ros and 64 ( = @xmath12 ) ffs . if each ro has 20 transistors , and 30 transistors are used for each ff , about 2000 transistors are present in our wro - puf circuit .",
    "if we reduce the number of ffs , which dominate the area of our wro - puf , we can further reduce the area of our circuit .",
    "suh and devadas  @xcite showed that 35 ros are used to obtain 133 bits .",
    "their typical ro - puf has two muxs , two counters , and a comparison circuit .",
    "when we assume that each mux consists of combined 4-input muxs , each of which has about 30 transistors , 21 ( = 16 + 4 + 1 ) 4-input muxs are required , resulting in 1260 transistors for the mux parts .",
    "if 16 bit counters are used , 32 ffs with additional circuits are required , resulting in 960 transistors being present in this part . when full adders are used to compare two ro outputs , and each full adder has 20 transistors , there are 320 transistors .",
    "thus , the previously proposed puf has about 3240 transistors ( table i ) .",
    "next , let us compare power consumptions . for the previous puf in ref .",
    "@xcite , 16 bit counters are operated to obtain a bit .",
    "therefore , the previous ro - puf has to run an ro pair for at least 2048 ( = @xmath13 ) cycles of the system clock .",
    "in contrast , an ro pair of our wro - puf acquires 16 bits during a cycle of the system clock .",
    "thus , the ro pair should run only 8 ( = 128/16 ) clocks in our wro - puf , resulting in a great reduction in power ( table i ) .",
    "table i. comparison of area ( number of transistors ) and clock cycle ( 128 bit output ) .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we proposed an ro - puf using the initial waveform ( wro - puf ) based on a 65 nm cmos circuit .",
    "the initial waveform of an ro is effectively sampled by other ros .",
    "no coupling between two ros is required . the simple circuit [ figs .",
    "1(b ) and 2 ] is proved to be best for the puf - id .",
    "compared with the conventional ro - puf using a frequency difference , a small number of ros are used with a couple of system clock operations , resulting in a low power consumption and a small area .      99 x. liu , j. zhou , c. wang , k. chang , j. lan , l. liao , y. lam , y. yang , b. wang , x. zhang , w. goh , t. kim , and m.",
    "je , ieee trans .",
    "circuits syst .",
    "ii , * 62 * , 1149 ( 2015 ) .",
    "d. lim , j. lee , b. gassend , g. e. suh , m. van dijk , and s. devadas , ieee trans.vlsi syst .",
    "* 13 * , 1200 ( 2005 ) .",
    "j. w. lee , d. lim , b. gassend , g. e. suh , m. van dijk , and s. devadas , ieee symp .",
    "vlsi circuits , 2004 , p. 176 . j. guajardo , s. s. kumar , g .- j .",
    "schrijen , and p. tuyls , 9th int . workshop cryptographic hardware and embedded systems ( ches07 ) , 2007 , p. 63 .",
    "a. maiti , j. casarona , l. mchale , and p. schaumont , ieee symp . hardware - oriented security and trust ( host ) , 2010 , p. 94 .",
    "a. maiti and p. schaumont , 19th int .",
    "field programmable logic and applications ( fpl09 ) , 2009 , p. 703 .",
    "r. maes , p. tuyls , and i. verbauwhede , workshop information and system security ( wissec ) , 2008 , p. 17 .",
    "d. yamamoto , k. sakiyama , m. iwamoto , k. ohta , t. ochiai , m. takenaka , and k. itoh , 13th int .",
    "workshop cryptographic hardware and embedded systems ( ches11 ) , 2011 , p390 .",
    "m. a. sayed , and p. h. jones , ieee int .",
    "reconfigurable computing and fpgas ( reconfig2011 ) , 2011 , p. 92 .",
    "r. j. milliken , j. silva - martnez , and e. snchez - sinencio , ieee trans .",
    "circuits syst .",
    "i * 54 * , 1879 ( 2007 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a silicon physically unclonable function ( puf ) using ring oscillators ( ros ) has the advantage of easy application in both an application specific integrated circuit ( asic ) and a field - programmable gate array ( fpga ) . here </S>",
    "<S> , we provide a ro - puf using the initial waveform of the ros based on 65 nm cmos technology . compared with the conventional ro - puf , the number of ros is greatly reduced and the time needed to generate an i d is within a couple of system clocks . </S>"
  ]
}