{
  "article_text": [
    "dcnn - based approaches enable end - to - end inference , and can be highly parallelized to achieve computational efficiency .",
    "unfortunately most dcnn methods rely on large - scale annotation of training data , which may be unavailable when trying to rapidly train such methods for new applications .",
    "our work is motivated by the problem of training an rgbd object detection and recognition system for guiding robotic handling of hazardous nuclear waste , which may contain a vast array of different kinds of objects and materials , where massive acquisition and human - annotation of training data is not practical .    to overcome this problem",
    ", we use a minimal amount of labeled data ( 0.3% ) to train a classifier which then automatically labels large - scale unlabeled data to enable end - to - end dcnn learning , i.e. weakly - supervised deep learning . for acquiring the unlabeled data",
    ", we deploy an unsupervised objectness detector on rgbd videos , fig .",
    "[ fig : weakly - supervised - learning ] .",
    "the main contributions of this paper are as follows :    * previous rgbd object recognition methods have predominantly been fully - supervised , making them unsuitable for rapid deployment in new applications .",
    "in contrast , we propose a weakly supervised method , based on gaussian process classification ( gpc ) combined with dcnn deep learning . unlike previous work",
    ", our method does not require bounding box object annotation , and uses very little manually - labeled data ( 0.3% ) .",
    "* our approach learns directly from raw depth images , in contrast to previous work which relies on extracting low - level features or color - mapping .",
    "we use a new approach to pretrain the depth dcnn by using many automatically generated synthetic depth images . *",
    "we introduce a new industrial dataset , comprising rgbd videos of realistic nuclear waste - like objects . a real - time detection and recognition system",
    "is implemented and significantly outperforms a fully - supervised method i.e r - cnn on this real - world data .",
    "most object detection literature addresses only 2d rgb images , e.g. @xcite .",
    "region - based cnn ( r - cnn ) @xcite frameworks comprise : objectness detection , then pretrained - cnn - based feature extraction , followed by svm classifiers for object category recognition . more recent work , @xcite , achieves greater speed by using dcnns , in which both detection and recognition can be learned jointly and deployed in a single shot .",
    "however , dcnns depend on large - scale human - annotated training data which is often unavailable in real - world applications .",
    "furthermore , these methods are based on bounding - box detection , and can not achieve boundary - aware detection .",
    "comparatively little literature has addressed the use of 3d data , which can greatly facilitate objectness detection by providing more salient boundaries between foreground objects and background regions .",
    "@xcite detects 3d objects in a point cloud by applying a cuboid - shaped sliding window .",
    "@xcite extended the region proposal networks of @xcite to achieve faster object detection than sliding - shape approaches .",
    "however , these methods typically generate thousands of objectness proposals for each image , making subsequent object category recognition difficult to do in real - time .",
    "alternatively , unsupervised 3d segmentation ( clustering ) @xcite can be used for rgbd objectness detection , and can also achieve boundary - aware detection .",
    "such methods engender a trade - off between segmentation accuracy and speed . in our approach , we simplify the 3d clustering connectability , using only three cues , to enable real - time performance while still achieving boundary - aware detection .",
    "multimodal dcnns @xcite are now widely used in rgb - d object recognition .",
    "these multimodal architectures comprise two nets ( for rgb and d modalities ) which are fused in the last fully - connected layers and trained jointly .",
    "these methods pretrained both rgb and d dcnns on imagenet , since no large - scale labeled depth dataset was available for pretraining .",
    "unfortunately , network parameters pretrained on rgb images ( i.e. imagenet ) do not compliment raw depth data well .",
    "most methods transfer depth modality to rgb modality through color - mapping @xcite , or low - level features @xcite , to fit into a dcnn pretrained on rgb data ( imagenet ) .",
    "these methods need extra computation for color - mapping and feature extraction , and the raw depth data is not fully leveraged .",
    "in contrast to previous work , our dcnn is directly trained on raw depth maps . no costly data conversions ( from depth to rgb ) are required , and depth information is fully exploited .      following the success of highly data - driven dcnn methods ,",
    "the problem of reducing annotation effort has attracted increasing attention .",
    "cheng , et al .",
    "@xcite proposed semi - supervised learning approaches for rgbd object recognition , in which co - training methods are used to incrementally label the unlabeled data .",
    "papandreou , et al .",
    "@xcite proposed a weakly supervised dcnn to learn pixel - wise semantic segmentation from bounding - box annotations . in their method ,",
    "dense crf is used to obtain segmentation estimations for training dcnn .",
    "barnes , et al .",
    "@xcite utilize the temporal correlation in driving videos to learn path proposals for autonomous driving . in their method ,",
    "the path in future frames are projected to the current frame through vehicle odometry and annotated as ground truth for learning .",
    "zeng , et al .",
    "@xcite proposed a self - supervised approach to learn fully - constitutional networks for object segmentation in the amazon picking challenge .    the key step in",
    "semi - supervised or weakly - supervised learning in object recognition is to model the predictive probability . in @xcite ,",
    "the dcnn trained by labeled examples is used as the classifiers in co - training .",
    "however , small - scale training examples open up the possibility of over - fitting , and as a consequence , a good predictive probability can not be guaranteed .",
    "in contrast , we adapt non - parametric gp classification with a fusion of multi - modal kernels , which is more robust to the scale of training data . we reduce the required label percentage from 5% @xcite to 0.3% ( at the same fps rate ) .      compared to 2d - based detection methods @xcite",
    ", 3d - segmentation - based detectors can reduce the number of object proposals from thousands to less than a hundred per image .",
    "more importantly , boundary - aware detection can be obtained . in our approach",
    ", we propose a 3d - segmentation method which is multi - cue , but more efficient than @xcite , for real - time objectness detection in rgbd data .",
    "multi - modal dcnns achieve state - of - the - art performance in rgbd object recognition .",
    "however , how to fully leverage the depth modality remains a problem .",
    "recent work @xcite assumes that raw depth images can not be directly used to train a dcnn , because no large - scale depth dataset is available for pretraining .",
    "in contrast , we show how raw depth data can be fully leveraged , by using 3d cad models ( e.g. model - net ) to generate large numbers of automatically annotated depth images for pretraining . as a consequence ,",
    "color - mapping methods and low - level depth features are not required in our approach .",
    "most dcnn - based detection and recognition methods are fully supervised , trained by massive annotated datasets .",
    "in contrast , weakly - supervised deep learning has , so far , only achieved success in very few applications , including path planing @xcite , and amazon picking challenge@xcite .",
    "in contrast , this paper shows how weakly supervised deep learning can achieve very strong performance on rgbd object detection and recognition , at real - time frame rates , on real - world industrial image data , for which only a tiny amount ( 0.3% ) of labeled data is available for training .",
    "unlike popular classifiers e.g. svm , gpc is fully bayes - based and extendable to multi - class cases .",
    "our use of gpc follows @xcite .",
    "given a gpc problem : training instances @xmath0 , training labels @xmath1 , testing instance @xmath2 , testing label @xmath3 , and latent variables for training and testing instances @xmath4 and @xmath5 , the gpc infers the conditional predictive probability of testing instance s label @xmath3 given @xmath0 and @xmath1 :    @xmath6    where @xmath7 is prohibit distribution for binary classification , and @xmath8 is a standard noise - free regression .",
    "the key problem of gpc is to estimate the posterior @xmath9 :    @xmath10    where @xmath11 is the prior , @xmath12 is the likelihood . here , the prior gaussian , whereas the likelihood is non - gaussian , which makes eq .",
    "[ eq : posterior ] analytically intractable .",
    "researchers proposed different ways @xcite to solve this non - conjunction problems , including laplace approximation , expectation propagation , etc .",
    ".[tab : architecture ] the neural network architecture of our depth - net . [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     most existing rgbd datasets , e.g. nyu dataset , washington dataset v2 , focus on domestic scene understanding , e.g. distinguishing between tables , chairs , sofa etc . , rather than recognition of table - top objects .",
    "in order to evaluate our proposed weakly - supervised deep learning approach , we created a novel data - set of industrial objects .",
    "different to most other rgbd recognition challenges ( typically involving household or office objects ) , our application focuses on the major societal problem of robotic decommissioning and cleanup of nuclear waste , which comprises an enormous variety of contaminated objects and materials . in our dataset , there are 217 objects of 10 categories of objects which are common in legacy nuclear waste repositories : plastic bottles , cans , chains , cleaning cloth , gloves , metal objects , plastic pipe , pipe joints , sponges , wood blocks .",
    "we randomly split all instances into a training set ( 147 instances ) and a testing set ( 60 instances ) , and all testing objects were previously unseen .",
    "our training data is mainly unlabeled rgbd video clips in which a number of training objects are placed on a table . in this experiment ,",
    "the videos are captured by a kinect v2 in qhd resolution ( 540@xmath13960 ) at 5 - 6fps . in each video",
    ", the camera trajectory covers approximately 180@xmath14 field of view of the objects and the camera poses range from 30@xmath14 to 60@xmath14 above the horizon .",
    "the r - cnn is trained by using manually labeled objectness proposals .",
    "this comparison aims to show the advantage of our proposed weakly - supervised dcnn over fully - supervised approaches such as r - cnn , when very few labeled data are available .",
    "our computer has an i7 8-cores cpu and nvidia titan x gpu ( 12 g ) . in our implementation , iai kinect2 package ] is used to interface with ros and calibrate rgb and depth cameras .",
    "our dcnn is based on caffe toolbox@xcite .",
    "all of our pipeline is integrated in ros .",
    "the running time of our proposed detection and recognition is 2 - 3hz in a qhd point cloud .",
    "the detection time is monotonically increasing with the number of 3d points .",
    "moreover , we also devised a lighter dcnn architecture , which can run 3 times faster with only slightly lower performance .",
    "our pipeline can be boosted to 5hz with point cloud down - sampling and lighter dcnn architecture .",
    "in contrast to previous state - of - the - art rgbd object detection methods , 4 seconds per frame was achieved by @xcite and 16 seconds per frame by @xcite .",
    "the performance of our method is an order magnitude greater , and can reasonably be described as near - real - time .",
    "23 video clips were captured for training and 3 for testing . in each training video ,",
    "training objects of a specific category were placed on a table .",
    "each object was captured in different poses and from different viewpoints .",
    "our proposed objectness detection approach generated 163k unlabeled object proposals .",
    "we manually labeled 524 examples in total , and trained a binary dcnn - gpc for each category .",
    "statistics of our training data are detailed in table [ tab : result ] . having dcnn - gpc trained by manually labeled examples ,",
    "the _ confidence _ ( i.e. predictive probabilities ) of the 163k unlabeled examples can be estimated by eq .",
    "[ eq : confidional_prob ] .",
    "if the predictive probability of an example is larger than @xmath15 , then the prediction is treated as confident and this example is assigned the label of the corresponding category , otherwise it is abandoned . in our implementation , we set @xmath15 as 0.7 for all categories . in this procedure ,",
    "56.5k of 163k unlabeled examples are automatically labeled by dcnn - gpc .",
    "then we finetune our multi - modal dcnn using both gp - labeled and manually - labeled examples .",
    "as the parameters of our detector are fixed , an roc curve is not available . instead , _",
    "precision _ , _ recall _ and _ f - score _ are used for evaluation .",
    "unlike conventional bounding - box - based detection methods , our approach generates boundary - aware ( i.e. pixel - wise ) detection results .",
    "hence , we evaluate these three measurements both instance - wise and pixel - wise . for evaluation , we first acquire key frames from the four testing videos according to visual odometry .",
    "for each video , we uniformly select 10 frames from all key frames . in total",
    ", 40 testing frames are obtained .",
    "we densely annotated all the objects in these 40 frames ( approximately 1000 objects ) .",
    "in the instance - wise evaluation , detections are considered as true or false positives if the overlap area between prediction and ground truth exceeds 50% . in the pixel - wise evaluation",
    ", true or false positives are counted between corresponding pixels .",
    "quantitative results are shown in table [ tab : result ] and qualitative results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : qualitative - results ] .",
    "as shown in table [ tab : result ] , our approach achieves 80.85% average precision , 83.53% recall , 82.17% f - score in the instance - wise detection test , and 75.52% average precision , 70.39% recall , 72.87% f - score in the pixel - wise detection test .",
    "we observe that the difference between instance - wise and pixel - wise performance can be attributed to 3d clustering error , i.e. an object may be segmented as more than one cluster , and the small clusters are ignored because of their small physical dimension .",
    "moreover , the boundary - aware detection is susceptible to point cloud down - sampling , resulting in decreased precision of object boundaries .",
    "the results suggest that our weakly - supervised dcnn performs substantially better than the fully - supervised r - cnn , when few labeled training examples are available ( more than 20% in f - score ) . compared to r - cnn ,",
    "our weakly - supervised dcnn is more robust to scale - changes and variance of poses .",
    "this is because the moderate - scale automatically labeled data optimizes the dcnn end - to - end .     [ fig : cnns - gpc ]",
    "this paper proposed a novel weakly - supervised deep learning approach ( dcnn - gpc ) for end - to - end learning using minimal annotated data ( approximately 50 for each category ) by propagating minimal labels to large - scale unlabeled data .",
    "we also proposed a novel way to pretrain a dcnn for the depth modality , by using large - scale virtual cad data , enabling full leveraging of depth data without color - mapping or low - level features .",
    "good adaptation from virtual data to real - world depth data has been demonstrated .",
    "furthermore , a real - time ( several frames per second ) detection and recognition pipeline has been integrated and demonstrated . unlike previous methods",
    ", bounding - box annotations are not required in training , but boundary - aware detection is achieved . for evaluation , we created a novel industrial object dataset , and demonstrated that dcnns can be weakly - supervised to effectively solve real - world problems .",
    "we thank nvidia corporation for generously donating a high - power gpu on which this work was performed .",
    "this work was funded by eu h2020 romans 645582 and epsrc ep / m026477/1 .",
    "zhao was sponsored by distinctive - a university consortium funded by the research councils uk energy programme .",
    "stolkin was sponsored by a royal society industry fellowship ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper addresses the problem of rgbd object recognition in real - world applications , where large amounts of annotated training data are typically unavailable . to overcome this problem </S>",
    "<S> , we propose a novel , weakly - supervised learning architecture ( dcnn - gpc ) which combines parametric models ( a pair of deep convolutional neural networks ( dcnn ) for rgb and d modalities ) with non - parametric models ( gaussian process classification ) . </S>",
    "<S> our system is initially trained using a small amount of labeled data , and then automatically propagates labels to large - scale unlabeled data . </S>",
    "<S> we first run 3d - based objectness detection on rgbd videos to acquire many unlabeled object proposals , and then employ dcnn - gpc to label them . as a result , </S>",
    "<S> our multi - modal dcnn can be trained end - to - end using only a small amount of human annotation . finally , our 3d - based objectness detection and multi - modal dcnn are integrated into a real - time detection and recognition pipeline . in our approach , bounding - box annotations are not required and boundary - aware detection is achieved . </S>",
    "<S> we also propose a novel way to pretrain a dcnn for the depth modality , by training on virtual depth images projected from cad models . </S>",
    "<S> we pretrain our multi - modal dcnn on public 3d datasets , achieving performance comparable to state - of - the - art methods on washington rgbs dataset . </S>",
    "<S> we then finetune the network by further training on a small amount of annotated data from our novel dataset of industrial objects ( nuclear waste simulants ) . </S>"
  ]
}