{
  "article_text": [
    "during the last few years , network science has undergone a conceptual revolution thanks to the extension of well - established techniques of network analysis to multilayer networks @xcite , which provide a convenient way to simultaneously model different types of interactions , subsystems , and more in networks .",
    "consequently , it has been necessary to revisit our intuitive understanding of both different structural and dynamical properties of networks  including structural phase transitions , @xcite , diffusion and other spreading processes @xcite , percolation and robustness @xcite , synchronization @xcite , and others  to the new possibilities in multilayer descriptions , leading in many cases to counter - intuitive results .",
    "the study of brain networks is currently undergoing a process of adaptation of classical single - layer ( `` monolayer '' ) concepts and analyses to a more general multilayer description @xcite .",
    "some studies have considered integration of data coming from structural and functional brain imaging into a multilayer network to account for both anatomical and dynamical information . in an early study using monolayer networks",
    ", @xcite showed that a dynamical model simulated over the anatomical network of a macaque neocortex allows one to successfully identify the positions of the anatomical hubs when signals are averaged appropriately .",
    "more recently , stam et al .",
    "@xcite analyzed how anatomical networks support activity , leading to specific functional networks ( either undirected ones or directed ones ) , demonstrating that a dynamical model close to a critical transition is able to unveil interactions between structural and functional networks .",
    "it is possible to analyze the organization of just a few nodes , instead of an entire network .",
    "battiston et al .",
    "@xcite examined network motifs ( i.e. , overrepresented network substructures , which traditionally are composed of a few nodes @xcite ) that combine the anatomical connections ( in one layer ) and functional relations between cortical regions ( in a second layer ) , linking data sets obtained , respectively , from diffusion magnetic resonance imaging ( dw  mri ) and functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fmri ) .",
    "efforts to join anatomical and functional networks into a single multilayer network face the challenge of how to normalize the weights of edges that arise from different origins . to tackle this issue , simas et al .",
    "@xcite proposed translating functional and anatomical networks into a common embedding space and then comparing them in that space .",
    "they constructed functional networks ( each with @xmath0 nodes ) from the fmris of @xmath1 healthy individuals .",
    "they then used the functional networks of the @xmath1 individuals to construct a single functional multiplex network , a special type of multilayer network in which corresponding entities ( brain regions ) in different layers ( individuals ) can be connected to each other via interlayer edges but other types of interlayer edges can not occur @xcite .",
    "they followed a similar procedure to construct an anatomical multiplex network using data obtained from dw  mri . in each case independently , the multiplex networks were then projected into a common embedding space using a series of algebraic operations that allow one to calculate a so - called `` algebraic aggregation '' of all layers into a single layer .",
    "( see @xcite for details . )",
    "using such a projection , it is possible to quantify the differences between anatomical and functional networks .",
    "the authors also calculated an `` averaged aggregation '' of the functional and anatomical multiplex networks by averaging the weights of the corresponding edges over all layers .",
    "they compared the two types of aggregation , and they were thereby able to identify certain brain regions with significant differences between the functional and anatomical networks , no matter the type of aggregation ( e.g. , regions related to visual , auditory , and self - awareness processes ) .",
    "however , only the algebraic aggregation was able to detect differences between the functional and anatomical networks in other regions ( thalamus , amygdala , the postcentral gyrus , and the posterior cingulate ) , suggesting that averaged aggregation disregards significant information @xcite .",
    "one possible alternative for reducing the complexity of analysis is to concentrate only on `` functional '' ( dynamical , in fact ) interactions between brain regions and to define multilayer functional networks as the concatenation of a series of layers , each of which captures the interplay between brain regions during some time window .",
    "this approach , in which a layer in a multilayer network represents connection similarities over some time window , was taken in papers such as @xcite to analyze the temporal evolution of network modules and assess dynamic reconfiguration and `` flexibility '' of functional networks .",
    "another alternative is to construct functional multilayer networks whose layers layers correspond to the well - known frequency bands at which a brain operates @xcite . as demonstrated by brookes et al .",
    "@xcite , it is possible to construct _ frequency - based multilayer networks _ from magentoencephalographic ( meg ) recordings by ( i ) band - pass filtering the raw meg signals , ( ii ) obtaining the envelope of the amplitude at each frequency band , and ( iii ) measuring the correlations between all envelopes ( for whichever frequency they account ) . in this way",
    ", @xcite obtained frequency - based multilayer networks , in which each layer includes the interactions in a given frequency band , and showed that the corresponding supra - adjacency matrices ( which encode the linear - algebraic representation of connections in a multilayer network ) convey statistically significant differences when comparing a control group with a group of schizophrenia sufferers .",
    "very recently , de domenico et al . took the important step of analyzing the spectral properties of frequency - based multiplex networks @xcite .",
    "they compared a group of schizophrenic patients with a control group using fmri data , and they found that the second smallest eigenvalue ( i.e. , _ algebraic connectivity _ or fiedler value @xcite ) @xmath2 of the combinatorial supra - laplacian matrix associated with the multiplex network is a better discriminator between the two groups than what one can obtain by analyzing the unfiltered or single - band functional networks ( i.e. , by using monolayer networks ) . de domenico et al .",
    "also calculated centrality measures ( i.e. , measures of the importance of network components @xcite ) on the frequency - based multiplex networks to demonstrate the existence of hubs that had not been classified previously as important brain regions for functional integration .",
    "hubs of the control group were located in anterior cingulate , superior frontal , insula , and superior temporal cortices , but those for to schizophrenic patients were distributed over frontal , parietal , and occipital cortices .",
    "these results reveal that frequency - based multiplex networks include relevant information about the functional organization of brain networks that is not captured by a classical monolayer approach .    in this paper",
    ", we investigate how to translate the dynamics of different brain regions into a frequency - based ( i.e. , functional ) multilayer network , in which individual layers account for coordination within a given frequency band .",
    "we focus in particular on the consequences of analyzing a multiplex network versus a more general multilayer one . the former allow interlayer connections only between the the same brain region in different network layers , so coupling between oscillations in different frequency bands occurs only between the same brain region , whereas the latter allows one to model coordination between any brain region at any frequency band .",
    "we use resting - state meg recordings because of their high temporal resolution ( on the order of milliseconds ) , which makes it possible to analyze a broad spectrum of frequency bands @xcite . in our case ,",
    "meg signals consist of @xmath3 time series , each of which is obtained from a sensor that captures the activity above a different cortical region .",
    "we then filter signals at four frequency bands ( theta , alpha , beta , and gamma ) and construct a 4-layer functional multilayer network from the dynamical coordination within and between frequency bands .    combining numerical simulations with several synthetic network models and analyzing data sets from laboratory experiments ,",
    "we investigate the effects that heterogeneity of interlayer edges weights have on the spectral properties of both multiplex and more general multilayer networks . in particular , we focus on the algebraic connectivity @xmath2 , which is closely related to both structural and dynamical properties of networks @xcite . on one hand ,",
    "algebraic connectivity is an indicator of modular structure in networks @xcite ; in the framework of multilayer networks , one can interpret the value of @xmath2 and how it changes as a function of interlayer coupling strength as a way to quantify structural integration and segregation of different network layers @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", @xmath4 is proportional to the time required to reach equilibrium in a linear diffusion process @xcite . additionally , the time @xmath5 to reach synchronization of an ensemble of phase oscillators that are linearly and diffusively coupled is also proportional to @xmath4 , and it is known that @xmath5 and @xmath4 are positively correlated in some cases with nonlinear coupling @xcite .",
    "we show how the fact that a considerable fraction of all possible interlayer edges are not present in multiplex networks leads to a deviation from the theoretical values expected for @xmath2 , and we investigate how these deviations are related to the mean weight of the interlayer edges .",
    "we thereby investigate the consequences of using a multiplex formalism , in which only cross - frequency coupling inside the same brain region is allowed , instead of employing a fully multilayer approach ( i.e. , without any restrictions to the type of coupling that one considers ) .",
    "hz and beta [ 1230 ] hz .",
    "we use mutual information ( mi ) @xcite to quantify the coordination between brain regions .",
    "this yields three different type of functional edges : edge  1 \" quantifies the coordination between different different regions at the same frequency band ; edge  2 \" corresponds to interlayer edges , which couple the activity of the same region at different frequency bands ; and edge  3 \" quantifies the cross - frequency coupling between different brain regions .",
    "multiplex networks include only edges of types ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , whereas more general multilayer networks include all three types of edges .",
    "( b ) schematic of the supra - adjacency matrix of a 2-layer network constructed from the data in panel ( a ) .",
    "( c ) schematic of the intralayer and interlayer edges in the multilayer functional network .",
    ", scaledwidth=50.0% ]",
    "in fig .  [ fig : fig01 ] , we illustrate the process of constructing frequency - based multiplex and multilayer brain networks . our starting point is a data set of meg recordings of a group of @xmath6 individuals during resting state ( see materials and methods for details ) , but other experimental paradigms  including different brain imaging techniques such as fmri or eeg  can be used to construct multilayer networks with the same procedure .",
    "specifically , we record meg activity at @xmath3 cortical regions and then clean it to remove artifacts to obtain corresponding unfiltered signals . in this way",
    ", we analyze the signal recorded by each sensor instead of carrying out a source reconstruction .",
    "we then band - pass filter each signal to obtain four different filtered time series for each brain region .",
    "we use the four classical frequency bands : theta [ 38 ] hz , alpha [ 812 ] hz , beta [ 1230 ] hz , and gamma [ 30100 ] hz .",
    "the number @xmath7 of layers of the multilayer network is the number of different frequencies in which we are interested ( so @xmath8 in this case ) , and the @xmath0 nodes in each layer are associated with the dynamics of the @xmath0 sensors filtered at its corresponding frequency band .",
    "we number the nodes such as nodes @xmath1 , @xmath9 , @xmath10 ,  , @xmath11 ( with @xmath12 ) correspond to the signals of the same brain region @xmath1 at the @xmath7 different frequency bands ( i.e. , layers ) .",
    "individuals ( see materials and methods for details ) .",
    "we show the second - smallest eigenvalue @xmath2 of the combinatorial laplacian matrix , the standard deviation @xmath13 of the matrix elements ( to quantify their heterogeneity ) , and the percentage of missing edges of four different networks : ( i ) the functional network obtained from the unfiltered signals ( first row ) , ( ii ) an aggregated network of the alpha and beta layers ( second row ) , ( iii ) a multiplex network ( third row ) , and a ( iv ) full multilayer network ( fourth row ) . in all cases , we only consider two layers ( alpha and beta ) .",
    "the percentage of missing edges in the unfiltered and aggregated networks is equal to the percentage of zeros in the whole matrix , but it refers only to the interlayer edges for the multiplex and multilayer networks . , scaledwidth=48.0% ]    we now quantify the coordination between any pair of nodes of a multilayer network , regardless of which layers they are in , using mutual information mi ( see materials and methods ) . calculating mi between time series of the same frequency band yields intralayer connections between brain regions ( see edge  1 \" in the bottom left plot of fig .",
    "[ fig : fig01]a for an example ) , so each layer corresponds to a specific frequency band .",
    "edges between the signals of the same sensor but at different frequency bands result in interlayer connections between layers ( see edge  2 \" ) .",
    "such `` diagonal '' interlayer edges are the only type of interlayer edges that are allowed in multiplex networks @xcite . finally , cross - frequency coupling between different brain regions yield the other ( `` non - diagonal '' ) interlayer edges in a full multilayer network ( see edge  3 \" ) . as we show in fig .  [",
    "fig : fig01](b ) , we thereby obtain a supra - adjacency matrix , where blocks along the diagonal account for the intralayer connections ( layers alpha and beta in the 2-layer example ) , and blocks off of the diagonal , marked as @xmath14 and @xmath15 , contain the interlayer edges . because @xmath16 , the supra - adjacency matrix is symmetric , so @xmath17 .    importantly , although we have chosen to use mi , there are a diversity of similarity measures for capturing amplitude  amplitude and phase  amplitude correlations between different frequency bands ( see @xcite for a review on cross - frequency coupling measures ) , and each measure has its own advantages and drawbacks . nevertheless , as we will see , the same methodological implications exist no matter which specific measure one uses to evaluate coordination between brain sites .",
    ".for each kind of network ( see first column ) : standard deviation @xmath13 of the weight of the edges ( unfiltered and aggregated ) and interlayer edges ( for both multiplex networks and full multilayer networks ) and the corresponding percentage of missing edges . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     finally , we investigate how the combination of layers from different frequency bands affects the value of @xmath2 . in our analysis",
    "thus far , we have focused on the 2-layer network formed by alpha and beta frequency bands , because they are often associated to brain activity during the resting state .",
    "nevertheless , because the signal has been filtered into @xmath18 different frequency bands , there are 8 possible combinations of 2 layers . in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig08 ] , we show the relation between @xmath2 for all possible combinations of 2-layer networks versus the full 4-layer multilayer .",
    "observe the strong correlation of the 2-layer networks that include the gamma layer ( especially the one that is composed of theta and gamma layers ) with the full multilayer network .",
    "one can explain such a correlation by inspecting the total strength of each frequency band .",
    "in table [ tab : tab02 ] , we separate the intralayer and interlayer strengths to facilitate interpretation of the results .",
    "we observe that gamma is the least active layer , as it is the one with the lowest intralayer strength .",
    "nevertheless , it has the highest interlayer strength , so it is the layer that appears to interact most strongly with the other layers . because , as we have seen , the full multilayer functional networks are close to the transition point",
    ", the weight of the intralayer connections has a strong influence on the value of @xmath2 .",
    "therefore , the theta - gamma ( 2-layer ) network , which includes layers with the highest interlayer strengths , is the one with the strongest correlation of @xmath2 with the full multilayer network [ see fig .",
    "[ fig : fig08](c ) ] .     of all possible combinations of 2-layer networks versus @xmath19 of the 4-layer full multilayer networks , with layers theta ( @xmath20 ) ,",
    "alpha ( @xmath21 ) , beta ( @xmath22 ) , and gamma ( @xmath23 ) . the labels at the top of each plot correspond to the frequency bands that we use to construct the layers .",
    "each circle corresponds to one of the 89 individuals .",
    ", scaledwidth=50.0% ]",
    "using network analysis as a tool for analyzing brain - imaging data and , more specifically , implementing a multilayer description of brain activity has both advantages and drawbacks that must be investigated carefully .",
    "as we have discussed , it is possible to encode such information as either a multiplex network or as more general types of multilayer networks , but different choices lead to different results , which must then be interpreted from a neuroscientific perspective . in our paper",
    ", we have performed such an analysis to explore the implications of the two approaches on spectral information , and in particular the algebraic connectivity @xmath2 , which has been related to structural , diffusion , and synchronization properties of networks @xcite .",
    "specifically , we have seen how the heterogeneity of the interlayer edges of multiplex networks leads to deviations of the theoretical predictions obtained when all interlayer edges have an equal weight @xmath24 , and we observed that the deviation is even larger when interlayer edges are missing .",
    "the importance of these results , which imply large differences in qualitative dynamics , is underscored by the fact that both heterogeneity and missing interlayer edges are common features for brain - imaging data .",
    "it is also important to understand that representing brain activity as a multiplex network rather than a full multilayer network has important conceptual drawbacks : ( i ) each brain region does not necessarily coordinate with itself at different frequencies ; and ( ii ) there may also exist cross - frequency coupling between different brain regions .",
    "consequently , interlayer connections do not necessary follow the multiplex paradigm , because some of the interlayer edges probably should not be present that others , to account for interlayer coupling between different nodes ( i.e. , different brain regions ) , should be included , thus requiring a fully general multilayer approach .",
    "our numerical simulations with full multilayer networks show that the value of @xmath2 differs dramatically from that for multiplex networks .",
    "this makes sense , because the number of interlayer edges scales with @xmath0 in the multiplex networks but with @xmath25 in the multilayer networks , leading to important quantitative differences in the values of the algebraic connectivity . nevertheless , the effects of heterogeneity and missing interlayer edges on full multilayer networks are qualitatively similar to those obtained with multiplex networks .",
    "specifically , the analytical predictions that we obtained with homogeneous multilayer networks deviate from those of heterogeneous cases , showing an important discrepancy for values of the coupling - strength parameter @xmath24 larger than the transition point @xmath26 .",
    "again , the effect of missing interlayer edges is particularly dramatic once the value of @xmath26 is reached .",
    "our analysis of experimental imaging data confirms our results with synthetic networks .",
    "the small number of interlayer connections in a multiplex network leaves the system in a region in layers behave as if they are structurally independent , and a deeper analysis reveals that the weights of the interlayer edges from the experimental data need to be increased by several orders of magnitude to reach the transition point @xmath26 .",
    "consequently , using a multiplex representation leads to a network with structurally independent layers , unless unrealistic weights ( i.e. , @xmath27 ) are assigned to the interlayer edges .",
    "interestingly , this pathology does not occur when one uses a full multilayer description , in which a frequency band from one brain region is now allowed to couple with a different frequency band from a different brain region .",
    "when one considers all possible interlayer edges , the majority of the 89 individuals in the experiment are close to the transition point @xmath26 , even though the percentage of weight in the interlayer edges is always around @xmath28% of that of the intralayer ones ( see table [ tab : tab02 ] ) . as we showed by in our computations with synthetic data",
    ", it is around this point that heterogeneity and missing interlayer edges begin to yield important discrepancies with the theoretical results from homogeneous multilayer networks [ see fig . [",
    "fig : fig04](a ) ] .",
    "note that the percentage of weight of interlayer edges depends strongly on how one measures coordination between brain regions .",
    "when one uses diagnostics other than mutual information , it is possible to observe differences in this percentage , which may move multilayer networks above or below the transition point .",
    "thus , no matter what measure one uses , it is mandatory to first analyze the percentage of weight in the interlayer edges and to interpret the value of @xmath2 with respect to the value of @xmath26 .    the fact that , in frequency - based multilayer networks , the weight of interlayer edges strongly influences the value of @xmath2 despite being much smaller than the weights of intralayer edges ( see table [ tab : tab02 ] ) highlights the importance of adequately evaluating cross - frequency coupling , which has traditionally been disregarded when representing brain activity in terms functional networks . as has been discussed prominently in neuroscience ( including in critiques of connectomics ) @xcite , the dynamics matter , and that necessarily must include incorporation and analysis of coupling between different frequency bands .",
    "moreover , the methodology that is used to quantify interaction between brain regions at different frequencies lead to different values of @xmath2 , and there are also other important dynamical issues , such as as phase  amplitude correlations , they we have not investigated in this paper ( see @xcite for a review of how common reference , volume conduction , field spread , or common input affect the quantification of the coordinated activity between brain regions ) .",
    "however , our analysis illustrates an approach for examining the effects of such phenomena on @xmath2 ( and hence on spectral structure ) on multilayer functional networks , and we expect that one will observe similar qualitative phenomena in both multiplex and full multilayer networks constructed using other choices ( e.g. , difference measures than mi ) from the ones that we chose to give a concrete illustration .",
    "we initially studied the alpha ",
    "beta 2-layer network , because the alpha and beta bands are known to incorporate a large amount of the power spectrum of brain activity during resting state and they are the frequency bands that typically exhibit stronger synchronization between brain regions ( e.g. , see @xcite ) .",
    "these bands are thus the most commonly - studied bands in resting - state studies , and we followed this tradition .",
    "nevertheless , in our particular case , our comparison between 2-layer and 4-layer networks illustrates that the gamma band is the one that most influences the spectral properties of the full 4-layer multilayer network ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : fig08 ] ) .",
    "as we showed in table [ tab : tab02 ] , the theta and gamma layers , despite having weaker intralayer connectivities , are the ones with the largest percentage of interlayer connections ( see the table caption ) , thus leading to the strongest correlation between a 2-layer network ( with theta and gamma layers ) and the complete ( 4-layer ) multilayer network .",
    "this fact highlights the importance of the well - known phase ",
    "amplitude correlations between the theta and gamma frequency bands @xcite , as the former acts as a carrier of fast amplitude fluctuations in the latter .",
    "consequently , theta - gamma coupling may be fundamental for understanding the multilayer nature of functional brain networks .",
    "finally , it is worth mentioning that although our results are concerned with resting - state meg recordings , we expect to observe similar behavior in frequency - based multilayer networks of different origins  whether obtained from any of a large variety of different cognitive or motor tasks , with different brain - imaging techniques , or even if they come from a completely different system ( such as functional climate networks @xcite ) .",
    "* data acquisition .",
    "* data sets have been made available by the human connectome project ( hcp ) ; see @xcite and @xcite for details .",
    "the experimental data sets consist of the magnetoencephalographic ( meg ) recordings of a group of @xmath6 individuals , during resting state , for a period of approximately @xmath29 minutes . during the scan , subjects were supine and maintained fixation on a projected red crosshair on a dark background .",
    "brain activity was scanned on a whole head magnes 3600 ( 4d neuroimaging , san diego , ca , usa ) system housed in a magnetically shielded room , and it included up to 248 magnetometer channels .",
    "the root - mean - squared ( rms ) noise of the magnetometers is about 5 ft / sqrt ( hz ) on average in the white - noise range ( above 2 hz ) .",
    "data was recorded at sampling rate of @xmath30 hz .",
    "five current coils attached to the subject , in combination with structural - imaging data and head - surface tracings , were used to localize the brain in geometric relation to the magnetometers and to monitor and partially correct for head movement during the meg acquisition .",
    "artifacts , bad channels , and bad segments were identified and removed from the meg recordings , which were processed with a pipeline based on independent component analysis ( ica ) to identify and clean environmental and subject s artifacts @xcite .    * coordination between brain regions . * to encode the coordination between brain regions",
    ", we first apply a band - pass filter to the preprocessed signals to obtain , for each of the @xmath0 sensors , a set of four different time series , each of which corresponds to a specific frequency band : theta [ 38 ] hz , alpha [ 812 ] hz , beta [ 1230 ] hz , and gamma [ 30100 ] hz .",
    "we thereby obtain @xmath31 time series of @xmath32 points for each of the 89 individuals .",
    "we then order the filtered signals according to their corresponding frequency band , so @xmath33 corresponds to the theta band , @xmath34 corresponds to the alpha band , @xmath35 corresponds to the beta band , and @xmath36 corresponds to the gamma band .",
    "we calculate the mutual information ( mi ) between each pair of channels , @xmath37 and @xmath38 , with the formula @xmath39 where @xmath40 is the joint probability distribution of finding @xmath41 and @xmath42 at the same time step .",
    "when @xmath37 and @xmath38 are independent variables , @xmath43 , and the resulting @xmath44 is @xmath45 .",
    "however , when @xmath46 for all the series , mi achieves its maximum value . note that @xmath47 , so we obtain an undirected edge between the two time series and we are disregarding causality . calculating @xmath44 allows one to detect coordinated activity even for time series that include different frequency bands .",
    "see @xcite for a review of different measures for quantifying coordination between brain regions and a discussion of their advantages and pitfalls .",
    "it is worth mentioning that @xmath48 is measuring the interplay between two different frequency bands in the same brain region @xmath49 .",
    "finally , mi is normalized with surrogates that we obtain with a block - permutation procedure @xcite : each time series is simultaneously cut into blocks of @xmath50 points , and the resulting blocks are permuted uniformly randomly before again evaluating the mi between each time series .",
    "this yields @xmath51",
    ".    * frequency - based multilayer networks . *",
    "we construct the frequency - based multilayer network for each individual from the matrix that contains the mi of each pair of sensors for the four different frequencies bands .",
    "each layer includes nodes with the same frequency band , yielding four different layers : theta ( @xmath20 ) , alpha ( @xmath21 ) , beta ( @xmath22 ) , and gamma ( @xmath23 ) .",
    "specifically , we construct a weighted supra - adjacency matrix * w * whose elements are @xmath52 if @xmath53 and @xmath45 otherwise . in this way , we account only for edges with statistically significant edges .",
    "( in fig .",
    "[ fig : fig02 ] , one can see what fractions of edges are @xmath45 in each case . ) finally , we apply a linear normalization to _ * w * _ to obtain @xmath54 where @xmath55 and @xmath56 are , respectively , the largest and smallest values of * w*. this ensures that @xmath57 $ ] for each individual , which facilitating comparisons between them .",
    "the weighted supra - adjacency matrix @xmath58 contains some number of @xmath45 entries , which account for interactions between brain regions and frequencies that we deem to not be statistically significant .",
    "it also has four blocks along the diagonal that encode interactions within each layer ( i.e. , the same frequency band at different brain regions ) , and it has off - diagonal blocks quantify coordination between different frequencies .",
    "see fig .",
    "[ fig : fig01](b ) for a schematic .",
    "j.m.b . thanks john allen for fruitful conversations .",
    "j.m.b . acknowledges financial support from spanish mineco ( project fis2013 - 41057 ) and from salvador de madariaga program ( prx15/00107 ) , which allowed him to visit university of oxford in summer 2016 .",
    "boccaletti , s. , bianconi , g. , criado , r. , del genio , c. i. , gmez - gardenes , j. , romance , m. , sendina - nadal , i. , wang , z. & zanin , m. the structure and dynamics of multilayer networks .",
    "_ phys . rep .",
    "_ * 544 * , 1122 ( 2014 ) .                        honey , c.j . , kotter , r. , breakspear , m. , & sporns , o. network structure of cerebral cortex shapes functional connectivity on multiple time scales .",
    "usa _ * 104 * , 1024010245 ( 2007 ) .",
    "stam , c. j. , van straaten , e. c. w. , van dellen , e. , tewarie , p. , gong , g. , hillebrand , a. , meier , j. & van mieghem , p. the relation between structural and functional connectivity patterns in complex brain networks , _ international journal of psychophysiology _ * 103 * , 149160 ( 2016 ) .",
    "bassett , d. s. , wymbs , n. f. , porter , m. a. , mucha , p. j. , carlson , j. m. & grafton , s. t. dynamic reconfiguration of human brain networks during learning .",
    "usa _ * 118*(18 ) , 76417646 ( 2011 ) .",
    "braun , u. , schfer , a. , walter , h. , erk , s. , romanczuk - seiferth , n. , haddad , l. , schweiger , j. i. , grimm , o. , heinz , a. , tost , h. , meyer - lindenberg , a. & bassett , d. s. dynamic reconfiguration of frontal brain networks during executive cognition in humans .",
    "usa _ * 112 * , 1167811683 ( 2014 ) .",
    "brookes , m. j. , tewarie , p. k. , hunt , b. a. , robson , s. e. , gascoyne , l. e. , liddle , e. b. , liddle , p. f. & morris , p. g. a multi - layer network approach to meg connectivity analysis .",
    "_ neuroimage _ * 132 * , 425438 ( 2016 ) .",
    "de pasquale , f. , della penna , s. , snyder , a. z. , lewis , c. , mantini , d. , marzetti , l. , belardinelli , p. , ciancetta , l. , pizzella , v. , romani , g. l. , & corbetta , m. temporal dynamics of spontaneous meg activity in brain networks .",
    "usa _ * 107 * , 60406045 ( 2010 ) .",
    "van diessen , e. , numan , t. , van dellen , e. , van der kooi , a. w. , boersma , m. , hofman , d. , van lutterveld , r. , van dijk , b. w. , van straaten , e. c. w. , hillebrand , a. & stam , c. j. opportunities and methodological challenges in eeg and meg resting state functional brain network research .",
    "_ clinical neurophysiology _ * 126 * , 14681481 ( 2015 ) .",
    "aru , j. , aru , j. , priesemann , v. , wibral , m. , lana , l. , pipa , g. , singer , w. & vicente r. untangling cross - frequency coupling in neuroscience .",
    "neurobiol . _ * 31 * , 5161 ( 2016 ) .",
    "erds , p. & rnyi , a. on random graphs i. _ publicationes mathematicae _ * 6 * , 290297 ( 1959 ) .",
    "sahneh , f. d. , caterina scoglio , c. & and van mieghem , p. exact coupling threshold for structural transition reveals diversified behaviors in interconnected networks .",
    "* 92 * , 040801 ( 2015 ) .",
    "larson - prior , l. j. , oostenveld , r. , della penna , s. , michalareas , g. , prior , f. , babajani - feremi , schoffelen , j .- m . , marzetti , l. , de pasquale , f. , di pompeo , f. , stout , j. , woolrich , m. , luo , q. , bucholz , r. , fries , p. , pizzella , v. , romani , g. l. , corbetta , m. & snyder a. z. adding dynamics to the human connectome project with meg .",
    "_ neuroimage _ * 80 * , 190201 ( 2013 ) .",
    "canolty , r. t. , edwards , e. , dalal , s. s. , soltani , m. , nagarajan , s. s. , kirsch , h. e. , berger , m. s. , barbaro , n. m. , & knight , r. t. high gamma power is phase - locked to theta oscillations in human neocortex .",
    "_ science _ * 313 * , 16261628 ( 2006 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we explore how to study dynamical interactions between brain regions using functional multilayer networks whose layers represent the different frequency bands at which a brain operates . </S>",
    "<S> specifically , we investigate the consequences of considering the brain as a multilayer network in which all brain regions can interact with each other at different frequency bands , instead of as a multiplex network , in which interactions between different frequency bands are only allowed within each brain region and not between them . </S>",
    "<S> we study the second smallest eigenvalue of the combinatorial supra - laplacian matrix of the multilayer network in detail , and we thereby show that the heterogeneity of interlayer edges and , especially , the fraction of missing edges crucially modify the spectral properties of the multilayer network . </S>",
    "<S> we illustrate our results with both synthetic network models and real data sets obtained from resting state magnetoencephalography . </S>",
    "<S> our work demonstrates an important issue in the construction of frequency - based multilayer brain networks . </S>"
  ]
}