{
  "article_text": [
    "over the past two decades , research communication has transitioned from a paper - based endeavor to a web - based digital enterprise .",
    "more recently , the research process itself has started to evolve from being a largely hidden activity to one that becomes plainly visible on the global network . to support researchers in this process",
    ", a wide variety of online portals have emerged which largely exist outside the established scholarly publishing system .",
    "these portals can be dedicated to scholarship , such as experiment.org , or general purpose , such as slideshare.net .",
    "the `` @xmath0 innovations in scholarly communication '' project provides a first of a kind overview of such platforms .",
    "the large number of readily available web portals promts some to even argue that there are too many of them , leading to decision fatigue @xcite .",
    "regardless , the potential of increased productivity and global exposure attracts researchers and so they happily deposit scholarly artifacts there . however , history has shown that even popular web platforms can disappear without a trace . to make matters worse",
    ", they rarely provide any explicit archival guarantees ; many times quite the opposite . whereas initiatives such as lockss and portico have emerged to make sure that the output of the established scholarly publishing system gets archived , to the best of our knowledge , no comparable efforts exist for scholarly artifacts deposited in these online platforms .",
    "we are therefore motivated to explore how these scholarly artifacts deposited in online portals could be archived .      to a large extent",
    ", the paradigm that underlies current approaches to capture and archive web - based scholarly resources has its origin in the paper - based era .",
    "it can be characterized as a back - office procedure in which the owner of a scholarly object decides when to hand over a finalized and atomic object to a custodian that will take care of its long - term preservation .",
    "the transfers by a publisher of its journals to portico and the upload of an article by its author into an institutional repository are examples of such procedures .",
    "however , we see several signs indicating that this paradigm s capture approach is failing even for journal articles , the most traditional of scholarly resources .",
    "david rosenthal , amongst others , has reported that a significant portion of journal articles does not make it into an archive and several reasons can be attributed to that @xcite . he observes , for example , an apparent focus on articles that are technically not too complex to capture and those published by large publishers . to make matters worse ,",
    "this traditional paradigm insufficiently accounts for the fact that journal articles no longer exhibit inherent fixity but rather are `` living things '' with versions .",
    "it also does not incorporate attempts to capture web content that is directly related to journal articles i.e. , web resources linked from these articles @xcite .",
    "the reason for this failure is probably the fact that journal articles are largely still regarded as static atomic objects despite the overwhelming evidence that they have become dynamic and firmly embedded in the web .",
    "we postulate that a paradigm that fails for the most traditional scholarly outputs is highly likely to fail when novel , web - native scholarly objects used in research communication and the research process are at stake .",
    "such objects include all sorts of scholarly artifacts deposited in web portals such as slide decks , videos , simulations , software , workflows , and ontologies .",
    "since these web - native scholarly objects are largely neglected by the current archival paradigm @xcite , we refer to them as * scholarly orphans*. they also have dramatically different characteristics than traditional articles or monographs in that they are compound ( aggregations of related resources ) , dynamic ( versioning ) , interdependent , distributed across the web @xcite , and created at another scale altogether .",
    "we therefore argue for a new archival paradigm .",
    "we envision an archival paradigm inspired by web archiving concepts that is web - centric to be able to cope with the scale of the problem , both in terms of the number of platforms and the number of artifacts involved . because the artifacts are often times created by researchers affiliated with an institution , we assume that these institutions are interested in collecting the artifacts .",
    "therefore , and for the sake of efficiency and scale , we explore a new archival paradigm built around highly automated web - scale processes operated on behalf of a scholarly institution .",
    "a conceptual view of the high - level processes in our paradigm under exploration is depicted in figure [ fig : paradigm_concept ] .        1 .",
    "the first step is to discover the web identities of institutional scholars in various online portals such as slideshare handles , figshare names , etc .",
    "this can either be achieved with an algorithmic approach , for example , by using web discovery on the basis of metadata about the scholar @xcite or by means of registries that list researcher profiles such as orcid .",
    "the second step , which builds on the web identities discovered in step 1 , is to discover actual artifacts created or contributed to by the scholar .",
    "the discovery of the artifacts on the basis of those web identities largely depends on the functionality of the portal .",
    "one option is to subscribe to the portal s notification service that , if available , sends messages whenever new objects are created .",
    "an alternative is to recurrently visit a registry e.g. , a list of artifacts that indexes the scholar s artifacts deposited in the portal .",
    "if neither of these options are available , an algorithmic approach could also be deployed here .",
    "3 .   several resources , each with their distinct uri , may pertain to any given artifact .",
    "as such , in order to capture the entire artifact , its web boundary - the list of all uris that pertain to the artifact - must be determined .",
    "this can either be done in an algorithmic manner , which requires extensive portal - specific heuristics @xcite or by means of information explicitly exposed by the portals in manners proposed by , for example , signposting and oai - ore @xcite .",
    "the final step in the process is the capture of discovered artifacts , that is , capture all uris that are within the web boundary of the artifact .",
    "a variety of tools have emerged from the web archiving community that could be used for the capture such as heritrix , brozzler , webrecorder , and icrawl @xcite .",
    "that can be deployed here . to accommodate concerns regarding the quality and trustworthiness of captures ,",
    "this step can also include a capture quality evaluation and a capture authenticity verification .",
    "a detailed analysis of all of the components of these processes outlined above is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "the focus of this paper is on determining whether open researcher and contributor i d ( orcid ) , a rapidly growing database of scholarly web identities ( orcids ) and associated profiles can play a role in the archival paradigm that we explore and that is depicted in figure [ fig : paradigm_concept ] .",
    "the orcid database has become increasingly popular since its inception in @xmath1 . at the time of writing it registers just over three million profiles .",
    "its core motivation was to solve the issue of name disambiguation and provide a platform for the unique identification of contributors to scholarly work @xcite .",
    "scholars are motivated to create , populate , and maintain their profile to advertise their accomplishments and gain credit for them .",
    "publishers and funding agencies are also recognizing the merit of orcids and have begun to mandate their inclusion in papers and project proposals .",
    "however , in the greater picture of scholarly communication the orcid platform has the potential to emerge as crucial infrastructure to unambiguously bind scholars to their work .",
    "in addition , implementations emerge that allow researchers to authenticate against scholarly portals with their orcid and use the same identity in many different platforms .",
    "consequently , opportunities arise to bind a researcher s scholarly web identity to other web identities .",
    "we believe that the orcid platform has enormous potential to play a core role as a web identity registry in step 1 and as an artifact registry in step 2 of the archival paradigm ( top two boxes in figure [ fig : paradigm_concept ] ) that we explore .",
    "however , in order for orcid to be able to play such a role , the platform must have substantial coverage of active scholars and rich scholar profiles .",
    "we investigate the suitability of orcid for this purpose and to make this assessment we ask the following research questions :    1 .",
    "does the orcid platform represent the broadest possible coverage of researchers , in absolute numbers , coverage of subjects , and coverage per geographical area ?",
    "( @xmath2 ) 2 .",
    "are orcid profiles rich with information about the scholar that is useful for our cause as well as web identities and artifacts ?",
    "( @xmath3 )    addressing these two questions ( @xmath2 and @xmath3 ) combined with offering insight into the evolution of orcid adoption and orcid profiles over time is the main contribution of this paper .",
    "we conduct a study to evaluate orcid records over time to assess whether trends support our intuition that orcids could be leveraged in steps 1 and 2 of our archival paradigm .",
    "given the novel and exploratory nature of this work , to the best of our knowledge , there are no comparable efforts in this realm that are addressing the same issues . however , web - centric archiving of scholarly resources is not a novel concept .",
    "the lots of copies keep stuff safe ( lockss ) program is built on open source peer - to - peer technology @xcite to focus on preserving scholarly content for long - term access . the recent work by van de sompel ,",
    "rosenthal and nelson @xcite outlines a multitude of problems with this regard .",
    "for example , the fact that e - journal preservation systems have to spend a lot of time and effort on developing crawlers that grab articles from publishers websites .",
    "this is a time - consuming and hence expensive endeavor that requires a lot of expert knowledge about a publisher s website structure , especially when dealing with the long tail of smaller publishers .",
    "the lockss system is relevant to our paradigm but not directly comparable since we are targeting scholarly orphans , artifacts that are neglected by existing archival approaches .",
    "the egosystem @xcite developed at the los alamos national laboratory was designed to discover web identities of the lab s postdoctoral students .",
    "it used basic information about the student such as name , degree - awarding institution and the student s field of study as the seed to search for web identities via the yahoo !",
    "search engine and in a pre - defined list of social and academic web portals . in its initial phase , egosystem targeted web identities within microsoft academic , linkedin , twitter , and slideshare but also searched for personal homepages and wikipedia articles . not only did egosystem sucessfully return a list of web identities , it also kept a record of search results and learned additional associations with every new query .",
    "northern and nelson @xcite developed an unsupervised approach to discover web identities on social media sites .",
    "the discovery phase was based on queries to search engines and to social media sites directly with the name of an individual as well as with variations of the name .",
    "the process also included an disambiguation step that was based on comparing key features extracted from discovered candidate profiles .",
    "both systems are related to our approach as they offer approaches for the algorithmic discovery of web identities , even if the motivation to do so was different from ours .",
    "it is worth noting that services essential to the operation of both systems are no longer available .",
    "for example , the yahoo ! search api as well as the microsoft academic api have been discontinued .",
    "the orcid organization publishes high - level statistics and updates them on a regular basis . amongst the statistics are the total number of orcids , the number of orcids with at least one `` work '' ( reference to a publication , dataset , patent , or other research output ) , employment as well as education activities . the orcid organization has been providing data dumps of all records and all publicly available information within these records once a year since @xmath4 .",
    "we were therefore able to download all available datasets of orcid records from @xmath4 @xcite , @xmath5 @xcite , @xmath6 @xcite , and @xmath7 @xcite . table [ tab : orcid_data ] summarizes the size of the obtained orcid datasets and the number of orcid records they contain .",
    "each dataset represents a snapshot of orcid records at a particular point in time . for example",
    ", the @xmath7 dataset contains all records as of october 1st @xmath7 .",
    "the datasets contain two serializations for each orcid record , one in xml and one in json format , and we chose to work from the json files .",
    ".public orcid datasets [ cols=\"^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab : orcid_work_types ]    table [ tab : orcid_work_types ] summarizes the top ten work types over time .",
    "the dominance of journal articles is apparent for all four orcid datasets .",
    "conference papers as well as books and book chapters seem to be gaining in importance in the more recent past but still fade in comparison .",
    "it is important to note that the sort of artifacts that most likely would be in scope for our archiving paradigm are not well represented in orcid records .",
    "for example , the type of work labeled `` scholarly project '' is ranked @xmath8 in @xmath4 and `` artistic performance '' is ranked @xmath9 in @xmath7 .",
    "the type `` other '' may represent artifacts we are potentially interested in but since the label is very ambiguous , these artifacts will need further evaluation . with the rather low percentage of orcid profiles containing works plus",
    "the fact that none of the top ranked work types are in scope for us , we realize that orcid profiles lack the desired level of richness of artifacts .",
    "we hence conjecture that , at this moment , the orcid platform is not a good fit for step 2 in our high - level processes outlined in figure [ fig : paradigm_concept ] .",
    "we propose a novel archiving paradigm that is aimed at archiving web - based scholarly orphans .",
    "the first and second step in this paradigm ( figure [ fig : paradigm_concept ] ) is focused on the discovery of web entities and artifacts in scope of our web archiving approach .",
    "since orcid has emerged as high potential scholarly web infrastructure that assigns web identities to scholars , allows listing additional web identities as well as artifacts per scholar , we were interested in determining whether it would be suitable as a discovery component in our archival processes .",
    "we approaches this work in two dimensions .",
    "first , we evaluated the coverage of orcid in terms of number of researchers , in terms of subjects , and in terms of geographical coverage .",
    "second , we analyzed the richness of orcid profiles of information about a scholar , web identities , and artifacts .",
    "we found that the orcid subject coverage is proportional to subject coverage worldwide ( as per publications ) but in absolute numbers there is still significant room for growth .",
    "we found more divergence with respect to the geographical coverage .",
    "countries like china , japan , russia , and germany seem under - represented in orcid .",
    "however , we also discovered that orcid growths at a very significant rate that outpaces the growth of researchers , for example .",
    "we therefore see a real chance that ocrid may achieve a level of coverage in the near future that is more suitable for our needs .",
    "the results of the evaluation of the richness of orcid profiles revealed that one out of five profiles contains information about the scholar s work .",
    "this number is surprisingly low and may indicate that scholars use other services such as researchgate or academia.edu for their profile data .",
    "the majority of works we found in orcid profiles are journal articles , which are out of scope for our use case .",
    "given these observations , it seems unreasonable to assume that researchers will eventually create entries for orphans in their profiles .",
    "the works component of orcid profiles is therefore less promising for our approach .",
    "we further found that few profiles ( less than @xmath10 ) contain web identities , which may be another indicator that researchers do not consider orcid as their profile but rather as their identity .",
    "nevertheless , since an orcid is a web identity , it would make sense for orcid to promote adding additional web identities so as to become an `` identity hub '' for researchers .",
    "this would be very beneficial for many use cases that involve access to machine - readable researcher profiles as it would allow to automatically navigate from a scholar s orcid to their web presence in other portals . to be able to better interpret web identities , however , it would help if a controlled vocabulary for types could be used .",
    "we acknowledge that orcid profiles can provide rich data that can be used to algorithmically discover other web identities of researchers .",
    "the given and family name(s ) of scholars , their affiliations , uris to personal home pages ( one of the most frequent web identities provided ) , and even subjects extracted from their works can be used for this purpose .",
    "clearly , orcid adoption is on the rise but , at this point , relying on it as basic infrastructure for steps 1 and 2 in our paradigm is not an option .",
    "we are optimistic that the coverage will improve over time and eventually better align with researchers and research subjects . to improve the richness of the profiles , some emphasis on promoting the addition of web identities would be required from orcid .",
    "we belive this aligns with orcid s mission of umambiguously identifying researchers .",
    "this work is in part supported by the andrew w. mellon foundation ( grant number 11600663 ) .",
    "we would like to express our gratitude to the orcid support staff , in particular alainna therese , who provided invaluable feedback regarding components and history of orcid records .",
    "l.  haak , j.  brown , m.  buys , a.  p. cardoso , p.  demain , t.  demeranville , m.  duine , s.  harley , s.  hershberger , l.  krznarich , a.  meadows , n.  miyairi , a.  montenegro , l.  paglione , l.  pessoa , r.  peters , f.  r. monge , w.  simpson , c.  wilmers , and d.  wright . , 2016 .",
    "https://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.4134027.v1 .",
    "l.  paglione , r.  peters , c.  wilmers , w.  simpson , a.  montenegro , f.  r. monge , s.  tyagi , e.  krznarich , t.  demeranville , j.  brown , n.  miyairi , m.  buys , a.  cardoso , c.  sethate , and l.  haak . , 2015 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> archival efforts such as ( c)lockss and portico are in place to ensure the longevity of traditional scholarly resources like journal articles . at the same time </S>",
    "<S> , researchers are depositing a broad variety of other scholarly artifacts into emerging online portals that are designed to support web - based scholarship . </S>",
    "<S> these web - native scholarly objects are largely neglected by current archival practices and hence they become scholarly orphans . </S>",
    "<S> we therefore argue for a novel paradigm that is tailored towards archiving these scholarly orphans . </S>",
    "<S> we are investigating the feasibility of using open researcher and contributor i d ( orcid ) as a supporting infrastructure for the process of discovery of web identities and scholarly orphans for active researchers . </S>",
    "<S> we analyze orcid in terms of coverage of researchers , subjects , and location and assess the richness of its profiles in terms of web identities and scholarly artifacts . </S>",
    "<S> we find that orcid currently lacks in all considered aspects and hence can only be considered in conjunction with other discovery sources </S>",
    "<S> . however , orcid is growing fast so there is potential that it could achieve a satisfactory level of coverage and richness in the near future . </S>"
  ]
}