{
  "article_text": [
    "in cases when one can count stars reliably , the derived stellar initial mass function ( imf ) is remarkably invariant  e.g. low mass stars in globular and open clusters in the milky way galaxy , spanning two orders of magnitude in metallicity ( von hippel _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 ) ; low mass stars in the field halo ( chabrier and mera 1997 ) and disk ( kroupa , tout and gilmore 1993 ) ; young star - forming regions in the galactic disk ( lada 1997 ) , and even for the intermediate  massive stars in the cluster r136a of our local ` starburst ' region 30 doradus ( hunter _ et al .",
    "further , even in more exotic locations , such as the starburst galaxy m82 where indirect inferences of the imf must be made , there is currently no significant evidence for an anomalous imf ( leitherer 1997 ) . for massive stars , this universal imf",
    "is reasonably modelled by a power law with slope similar to that of salpeter ( 1955 ) .",
    "the elemental abundances  both relative and absolute values  of the gas in the intra cluster medium ( icm ) have been interpreted as showing the gas to have been enriched by stars with a biased imf , being top - heavy with respect to the ` normal ' , local imf ( e.g. loewenstein and mushotzky 1996 ) .",
    "their derived elemental ratios implied that only type ii supernovae enriched the icm , and the actual elemental abundances were too high for this to be achieved with a normal imf .",
    "however , uncertainties in theoretical yields from supernovae complicate the interpretation of these data by comparison with models ( e.g. gibson , loewenstein and mushotzky 1997 ) . an empirical comparison with elemental abundances of objects with reasonably well - understood chemical evolution offers an alternative approach .",
    "the main result of this letter is given in figure  1 , which shows elemental data for galactic disk stars , together with the icm data .",
    "the icm points fall within those of the stars , leading to the conclusion that the simple picture of an invariant imf , that of the milky way galaxy , is equally consistent with the data .",
    "there is no compelling need to invoke special conditions .",
    "figure  1 here shows element ratios with respect to iron , versus the iron abundance , for local galactic disk stars and for the icm . the combination of element ratios and overall abundance is a powerful constraint on the stellar imf .",
    "indirect constraints on the stellar imf may be obtained by study of the elemental abundances of stars and of gas , exploiting the fact that different elements are synthesized by stars of different mass . in particular , oxygen and the alpha - elements ( created by the addition of successive @xmath0he nuclei )",
    "are formed overwhelmingly in core - collapse type ii supernovae , the endpoints of stars more massive than @xmath1 , while iron has a significant production in _ both _ type ii and type ia supernovae . while the understanding of type ia supernovae is by no means complete ,",
    "models in general invoke explosive nucleosynthesis in a white dwarf driven over the chandrasekhar mass limit by accretion from a binary companion ( e.g. iben and tutukov 1987 ) .",
    "the progenitor stars are of intermediate to low mass , and the final explosion may occur long after the formation of the white dwarf(s ) , determined by orbital parameters of the binary . thus type",
    "ii supernovae explode shortly after the progenitor massive stars are born , releasing lots of oxygen , while the onset of the ejection of significant amounts of enriched material from type ia supernovae is delayed , probably for the order of 1  gyr , and continues long after any cessation of star formation ( e.g. wheeler , sneden and truran 1989 ; gilmore , wyse and kuijken 1989 ) .",
    "stars formed in the early stages of chemical evolution  such as expected for the metal - poor stars in the milky way  will form from gas enriched only by type ii supernovae , and are expected to be relatively rich in oxygen and the alpha - elements , but poor in iron .",
    "the short timescales on which all type ii explode lead ( with efficient mixing ) to the expectation that one should observe a ( massive - star ) imf - averaged [ o / fe ] value .",
    "the exact value of the ratio of oxygen to iron depends on the massive star imf , since the oxygen yield of a type ii supernova is a steeply increasing function of main sequence mass , while the iron yield is approximately independent of progenitor mass ( e.g.  thielemann _ et al .",
    "however , as noted by gibson , loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1997 ) , there is currently a factor of 23 range in the available model predictions of the imf - averaged elemental yields of type  ii supernovae , even with imf fixed .",
    "hence a determination of the actual value of a parameter of the imf , such as the slope , is not reliable from element ratio data alone , but a very robust constraint on any possible _ variation _ in the value of this parameter of the massive star imf may be derived from any variation of the observed elemental abundances in objects enriched by type ii supernovae alone .",
    "stars and gas pre - enriched by an imf biased towards higher mass stars will have a higher value of oxygen - to - iron ( e.g. wyse and gilmore 1992 ) .",
    "the rate of decline in o / fe ( for example ) that occurs once type ia supernovae commence depends on the relative rates of type ii and type ia supernovae , and thus on the present star formation rate , and star formation history .",
    "obviously the steepest decline occurs when star formation ceases totally , and only type ia supernovae are contributing to chemical enrichment , providing negligible oxygen but significant iron .",
    "a slowly decreasing star formation rate with time ( as inferred for the local galactic disk ) , and normal imf , provides a somewhat more gentle decline .",
    "a plateau in oxygen - to - iron , reflecting enrichment by type  ii supernovae alone , followed by a decline in oxygen - to - iron ratio , is a robust prediction for non - pathological star - formation histories ( see gilmore and wyse 1991 for variations ) .",
    "the overall level of chemical enrichment achieved in a system of given gas fraction depends on the stellar imf , and thus in principle by itself provides a constraint .",
    "however , it is often difficult to estimate how much of the gas is actually taking part in star formation , and the ( probable ) occurence of gas flows further complicates the interpretations ( e.g.  edmunds 1990 ) . in the present context , for any fixed imf and specific set of model yields , one can predict an expected abundance of various elements if only type  ii supernovae enrich the medium . a _ higher _ abundance , for fixed yields , would mean either biasing of the imf towards more massive stars ( e.g. loewenstein and mushotzky 1996 ) , or a significant contribution from type ia supernovae ( obviously for those elements produced by these ) .",
    "the element ratio constraint then enters , since as noted above , such a biased imf would increase the alpha - element to iron ratio , while allowing type ia supernovae would decrease the alpha - element to iron ratio .",
    "estimates of the iron abundance in the hot intergalactic medium in clusters of galaxies showed it to be rather enriched , with a typical metallicity of one - third solar ( arnaud _ et al .",
    "data from the asca satellite has allowed additional elemental abundances in the icm in four rich clusters of galaxies to be estimated ( mushotzky _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 ) . understanding these results",
    "is facilitated by comparing them to samples of stars within which one can establish trends .",
    "direct comparison of these icm elemental abundances with the data for galactic stars is possible once the icm results are put on the same elemental abundance scale as the stars . for the stellar datasets discussed here this",
    "is based on the meteoretic iron abundance of anders and grevesse ( 1989 ) , which agrees with the solar photospheric iron abundance of e.g. holweger _ et al . _",
    "( 1991 ) and biemont _ et al . _",
    "as recently discussed by ishimaru and arimoto ( 1997 ) and by gibson , loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1997 ) , this calibration results in mean values of the icm elemental abundance ratios of [ o / fe ] @xmath2 ( i.e. solar ratio ) ; [ si / fe]@xmath3 ; [ mg / fe ] @xmath4 . the mean iron abundance of this gas is [ fe / h]@xmath5 ( re - calibrated from mushotzky _ et al . _",
    "1996 who used a higher solar iron abundance , by @xmath6  dex ) . the individual re - calibrated ratios of oxygen and of silicon relative to iron , and iron abundance , for the icm in the four clusters analysed by loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1996 ) are displayed in figure  1 .",
    "these elements are representative of those studied in stars and in x - ray gas .",
    "abundance analyses based on high - resolution spectroscopy have shown that essentially all metal - poor halo stars ( observed locally at the solar neighbourhood ) have the same value of elemental ratios , with [ @xmath7/fe]@xmath8 ( oxygen is the element with the largest uncertainties ) . indeed , the lack of scatter in alpha - to - iron ratio seen in samples of halo stars , down to metallicities [ fe / h]@xmath9 dex , places severe constraints on any possible variation in the slope of the massive - star imf ( although as noted above , one must adopt theoretical yields to be able to say what is the actual value of the slope ) .",
    "for example , adopting type ii yields from thielemann _ et al . _",
    "( 1992 ) , nissen _",
    "( 1994 ) determined that the allowable range of slopes of a power - law imf was at most @xmath10 ( one - sigma range ) , where the familiar salpeter slope is @xmath11 .",
    "as shown in figure  1 , the same value of the ` type ii plateau ' is seen in local metal - poor ( thick ) disk stars , decreasing ( due to the addition of type ia iron ) with increasing metallicity above [ fe / h]@xmath12 , reaching approximately solar values of the element ratios at approximately solar iron ( edvardsson _ et al .",
    "_ 1993 ) .",
    "note that the edvardsson _",
    "_ data show a large , real , scatter in the age - metallicity relationship , and in particular that the sun is rather more metal - rich than the average for its age .",
    "indeed , recent work has established that the b stars in the orion association have the same metallicity as the orion nebula , and thus are more metal - poor than is the sun , [ o / h]@xmath13  dex ( gies and lambert 1992 ; cunha and lambert 1994 ) .",
    "timmes , woosley and weaver ( 1995 ) undertook a comprehensive investigation of the evolution of elemental abundances in the galaxy , as probed by local stars ( including high velocity halo stars ) over the entire metallicity range from @xmath14  dex to solar .",
    "they included in their discussion essentially every element with both predictions and observations ; their model assumed a quadratic schmidt law of star formation , a fixed ( salpeter ) imf slope , the type ii yields of woosley and weaver ( 1995 ) , and standard type ia yields from thielemann , nomoto and yokoi ( 1986 ) .",
    "timmes _ et al .",
    "_ could understand the behavior of the element ratios with respect to iron , as a function of iron abundance , for a remarkably wide range of elements .",
    "the element ratio trends , combined with the overall age ",
    "iron abundance data , are consistent with one - third to two - thirds of the iron in the solar neighbourhood now having been contributed by type ia supernovae .",
    "thus the observations of galactic stars require that the massive star imf be invariant over @xmath15 range in iron abundance , from the lack of scatter about the type ii plateau in element ratios , and are consistent with no variation of the imf or of the yields for any star formation region anywhere , any time , in the galaxy .",
    "figure 1 here shows the icm points lying within those of galactic stars .",
    "thus from the discussion above , one might expect there to have been a significant contribution of type ia supernovae also for the icm .",
    "indeed , the results of gibson , loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1997 ) imply that adopting the woosley and weaver yields , the elemental abundances of oxygen and silicon relative to iron in the icm do imply that around 0.4 of the icm iron originated in type  ia supernovae ( their figure 1 ) .",
    "this was the conclusion of ishimaru and arimoto ( 1997 ) , on the basis of the icm data alone , but contested by gibson , loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1997 ) .",
    "these latter authors emphasise that it is possible to obtain type ii yields that have approximately solar element ratios by themselves , without any addition of iron from type  ia supernovae . to illustrate , gibson _",
    "et al . _ calculated approximately solar oxygen - to - iron element ratios from the type  ii supernova models of maeder ( 1992 )  these invoke efficient pre - supernova mass - loss  and those of arnett ( 1996 )  these invoke very efficient convection .",
    "thus gibson _ et al .",
    "_ propose that the icm data remain consistent with _ pure _ type  ii enrichment , and thus the overall level of enrichment of the icm would then still require a top - heavy imf .",
    "however , there is the further constraint discussed here , in that those type  ii yields do _ not _ provide an explanation for the galactic star data discussed above , since they fail to produce an enhanced alpha - element to iron ratio for the metal - poor halo stars .",
    "the excellent agreement seen in figure  1 between the icm data and the stellar data rather leads us here to propose that the imf is indeed invariant , and equal to that of galactic stars , that the type ii yields give enhanced alpha - elements , and that the icm _ did _ undergo substantial enrichment by type ia supernovae .",
    "detailed models of the chemical enrichment of the icm are outwith the scope of this _ letter _ , but reduction of a type  ii value of [ o / fe]@xmath16 to solar ratios obviously can be achieved by adding an equal amount of iron ( see also ishimaru and arimoto 1997 and gibson _ et al . _ 1997 ) , consistent with the location of the icm data in figure 1 .",
    "an alternative way of looking at overall enrichment is afforded by the elemental mass - to - light ratio , calculated ( loewenstein and mushotzky 1996 ) as the mass of a given element in the icm , normalised by the starlight in elliptical galaxies in the cluster ; this approximates the ratio of mass synthesized and ejected , to mass locked up in low mass stars ( assuming the stars in elliptical galaxies are the source of the enrichment ) .",
    "loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1996 ) found that with standard type  ii yields and a salpeter imf , the typical iron mass - to - light ratio observed ( 0.02 in solar units ; arnaud _ et al .",
    "_ 1992 ) was a factor of two above the pure type  ii enrichment predictions ( note that in this comparison , the absolute value of solar iron used should be irrelevant as long as the same value was used for both observations and predictions ; see also ishimaru and arimoto 1997 ) .",
    "this discrepancy is removed with the additional type ia contribution implied by the element ratios .    nevertheless , it should be noted that the upper end of the derived range of blue - luminosity - normalised icm abundances remains higher than the predictions of the yields and imf discussed here .",
    "for example , as discussed by loewenstein and mushotzky ( 1996 ) , awm  7 has an estimated iron mass - to - light ratio that is three times higher than this typical value , and the lower limits on the oxygen mass - to - light ratio they derive for the clusters abell  496 and awm  7 are a factor of two higher than the salpeter imf predictions .",
    "thus some parameterizations of the elemental abundances in some clusters remain puzzling",
    ". however , all the quantities involved are rather uncertain  for example , the contribution of galaxies other than giant ellipticals was ignored , and there have been suggestions that dwarf galaxies may contribute significantly to the icm enrichment ( e.g. trentham 1994 ) as could spiral galaxies .",
    "indeed , the hierarchical - clustering model of kauffmann and charlot ( 1997 ) , in which ellipticals form by the merging of smaller galaxies , predicts that around 75% of the metals in the intracluster medium of a present - day rich cluster ( with circular velocity of 1000km / s ) were ejected by disk galaxies with circular velocity less than 250km / s , not all of which have merged into ellipticals .",
    "an invariant imf is suggested by a wide range of observations , however remarkable this may be .",
    "simplicity is appealing , and we here argue that the chemical abundances in the intra cluster medium in rich clusters of galaxies may also be fit acceptably by the imf that provides an understanding of galactic stars .",
    "i thank all at the center for particle astrophysics ( uc berkeley ) for their hospitality during the writing of this paper , and the organisers of the imf meeting in cambridge ( uk ) that motivated it .",
    "i also thank the referee , and gerry gilmore , joe silk and mike loewenstein for comments and discussions .",
    "this work was partially supported by nasa atp grant nag5 - 3928 .",
    "anders , e. & grevesse , n. 1989 , geochim cosmochim acta , 53 , 197 arnaud , m. , rothenflug , r. , boulade , o. , vigroux , l. & vangioni - flam , e. 1992 , a&a , 254 , 49 arnett , d. 1996 , supernovae and nucleosynthesis , princeton univ press , princeton .",
    "biemont , e. , baudoux , m. , kurucz , r.j . ,",
    "ausbacher , w. & pinnington , e.h .",
    "1991 , a&a , 249 , 539 chabrier , g. & mera , d. 1997 , a&a , in press cunha , k. and lambert , d.l .",
    "1994 , , 426 , 170 edvardsson , b. , andersen , j. , gustafsson , b. , lambert , d. , nissen , p. & tomkin , j. 1993 , , 275 , 101 edmunds , m. 1990 , mnras , 246 , 678 gibson , b. , loewenstein , m. & mushotzky , r. 1997 , mnras , 290 , 623 gies , d.r . and",
    "lambert , d.l .",
    "1992 , , 387 , 3673 gilmore , g. & wyse , r.f.g .",
    "1991 , apjl , 367 , l55 gilmore , g. , wyse , r.f.g . & kuijken , k. 1989 , araa , 27 , 555 von hippel , t. , gilmore , g. , tanvir , n. , robinson , d. & jones , d. 1996 , aj , 112 , 192 holweger , h. , bard , a. , kock , a. & kock , m. 1991 , a&a , 249 , 545 hunter , d. , shaya , e. , holtzman , j. light , r. , oneil , e. & lynds , r. 1995 , apj , 448 , 179 iben , i. & tutukov , v. 1987 , apj , 313 , 727 ishimura , y. & arimoto , n. 1997 , pasj , 49 , 1 kauffmann , g. and charlot , s. 1997 , mnras , submitted    kroupa .",
    "p. , tout , c. & gilmore , g. 1993 , mnras , 262 , 545 lada , e. 1997 , in ` the stellar imf ' , eds g.  gilmore , s.  hughes , i. parry & s.  ryan ( asp , san francisco ) , in preparation .",
    "leitherer , c. 1997 , in ` the stellar imf ' , eds g.  gilmore , s.  hughes , i. parry & s.  ryan ( asp , san francisco ) , in preparation .",
    "loewenstein , m. & mushotzky , r. 1996 , apj , 466 , 695 maeder , a. 1992 , a&a , 264 , 105 ( erratum : 1993 , a&a , 268 , 833 ) mushotzky , r. , loewenstein , m. , arnaud , k.a . ,",
    "tamura , t. , fukazawa , y. , matsushita , k. , kikuchi , k. & hatsukade , i. 1996 , apj , 466 , 686 nissen , p. , gustafsson , b. , edvardsson , b. & gilmore , g. 1994 , , 285 , 440 salpeter , e. 1995 , apj , 121 , 161    thielemann , f. , nomoto , k. & yokio , y. 1986 , a&a , 158 , 17 thielemann , f. , nomoto , k. & hashimoto , m. 1993 , in ` origin & evolution of the elements ' eds n.  prantzos , e.  vangione - flam & m.  cass , cup , cambridge p297      timmes , f.x . ,",
    "woosley , s. & weaver , t. 1995 , apjs , 98 , 617 trentham , n. 1994 , nature , 372 , 157 wheeler , j. , sneden , c. & truran , j. 1989 , araa , 27 , 279 woosley , s. & weaver , t. 1995 , apjs , 101 , 181 wyse , r.f.g . & gilmore , g. 1992 , aj , 104 , 144"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> evidence supporting the hypothesis of an invariant stellar initial mass function is strong and varied . </S>",
    "<S> the intra - cluster medium in rich clusters of galaxies is one of the few contrary locations where recent interpretations of the chemical abundances have favoured an imf that is biased towards massive stars , compared to the ` normal ' imf . </S>",
    "<S> this interpretation hinges upon the neglect of type ia supernovae to the icm enrichment , and a particular choice of the nucleosynthesis yields of type ii supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate here that when one adopts yields determined empirically from observations of galactic stars , rather than the uncertain model yields , a self - consistent picture may be obtained with an invariant stellar imf , and about half of the iron in the icm being produced by type  ia supernovae . </S>"
  ]
}