{
  "article_text": [
    "the recently - discovered canis major overdensity ( hereafter cma ) appears to be an ongoing accretion event that will contribute to the build - up of the galactic thick disk ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper  i ) . found close to the plane of the milky way disc , we argued this putative dwarf galaxy may be the progenitor of the ` ring ' of stars that encompasses the galaxy @xcite , which is seen most clearly in the galactic anticentre direction @xcite .",
    "this ` ring ' of stars may have been built progressively as stars were removed from that dwarf galaxy by the disruptive tidal forces of the milky way .    in paper",
    "i , we extracted candidate m - giant stars from the 2 micron all sky survey ( 2mass ) , following selection criteria used to study the tidal stream of the sagittarius dwarf galaxy @xcite . by comparing the m - giant distribution above and below the galactic plane , we brought to light several large - scale galactic asymmetries that we interpreted as the cma dwarf galaxy and the cma tidal stream .",
    "* hereafter paper  ii ) presented deep photometry of a field at @xmath3 from the center of cma and of galactic open clusters that lie fortuitously in front of the cma overdensity .",
    "these data give a good constraint on the distance to this population , @xmath4 , and also constrain the dominant stellar population to be of intermediate age ( @xmath5@xmath6 ) and to be metal - rich ( @xmath7\\le 0.0 $ ] ) .",
    "however , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter m04 ) questioned the existence of the cma overdensity .",
    "they claimed that it could be entirely explained by a simple shift of the galactic plane of 2 degrees to the south to model the galactic warp that is known to exist in this part of the sky . using the ucac2 proper motion catalogue",
    ", they also showed that the m - giants composing the overdensity are rotating around the milky way in a prograde manner and at a tangential velocity that is compatible with the disc .    here",
    ", we use the radial starcount distribution and the radial velocity of m - giants in the direction of cma to show the cma overdensity _ can not _ be explained by the warp and that its morphology and kinematics are clearly different from what would be expected from the warp .",
    "we refer the reader to paper  ii for a comparison of observations in the cma region with the besanon model of the galaxy @xcite .    throughout this work",
    ", we assume that the solar radius is @xmath8 , that the lsr circular velocity is @xmath9 , and that the peculiar motion of the sun is ( @xmath10 ; @xcite ) .",
    "to account for m04 s criticism on the use of the ( * ? ?",
    "* hereafter s98 ) values for dust extinction ( which have been claimed to overestimate the extinction in regions of high reddening ) , we now use the ( * ? ? ? *",
    "hereafter b00 ) asymptotic correction of these and redefine our sample of m - giants ( sample a of paper  i ) accordingly .",
    "the magnitudes we consider in this letter have all been de - reddened in this way .      in paper",
    "i , we used the red giant branch of the sagittarius dwarf galaxy as a reference to calculate the distances to the m - giant stars in our sample a. as we already noted , the uncertainty on the metallicity and age of the different stellar populations leads to a possible @xmath11 uncertainty on the distances , with the values obtained being a lower limit .",
    "since the present argument on the existence of an overdensity in canis major is mainly based on distance distributions , it is desirable to have an independent and more robust method to validate our distance estimates . therefore , we first apply the tip of the red giant branch ( trgb ) algorithm of @xcite , which they used to determine the distances to the m31 group of dwarf galaxies . as has been explained there , the i - magnitude has the advantage of being only slightly dependent on metallicity .",
    "it is therefore particularly adapted for the study of the cma population for which the metallicity has not yet been precisely determined . however , to account for this lack of precise metallicity , we double the uncertainties adopted by @xcite for the i absolute magnitude of the tip , leading to @xmath12 @xcite .    since the 2mass catalogue",
    "we are using only provides j , h and @xmath13 magnitudes , we cross identified our sample a with the denis catalogue that contains 190 million objects down to i=18.5 . with the trgb algorithm being sensitive to contamination from foreground stars ,",
    "we study a large area to obtain sufficient statistics . in the region",
    "@xmath14 and @xmath15 , 3628 stars among the 6480 2mass m - giant stars have their counterpart in denis and can be used to determine the trgb of the cma population .",
    "applying the trgb algorithm leads to @xmath16 for the magnitude of the tip , which corresponds to a heliocentric distance of the canis major population of @xmath17 .",
    "this is statistically equivalent to the previous values of @xmath18 of paper  i and of @xmath19 of paper  ii but with a smaller uncertainty .    with this distance modulus",
    ", we are now able to obtain a photometric parallax to the cma stars in the same way @xcite did for the sgr stars . using the 2mass colour - magnitude diagram of the same region ,",
    "we compute a linear fit to the red giant branch ( rgb ) of the cma population . as in @xcite",
    ", we restrict the fit to those stars having @xmath20 and apply a @xmath21 iterative rejection algorithm to discard the contaminating disc stars .",
    "this leads to the following fit : @xmath22 with uncertainties slightly lower than 0.1 on the values .",
    "this result is close to the one @xcite deduced for the sagittarius dwarf , which explains the compatibility between the trgb estimated distance to cma and the estimate of paper  i based on the sgr fiducial .    using a trgb algorithm and a cmd fit of the slope of the red giant branch of the canis major population",
    ", we have derived a relation to estimate the distance to cma stars .",
    "contrary to our previous estimates , this relation does not require the use of the sgr rgb as a reference and should reduce the uncertainties discussed in paper  i. throughout this letter , we will now use relation ( 1 ) to estimate the distance to stars in the cma region .",
    "momany et al .",
    "( 2004 ) discarded the possibility of an unknown population in canis major , arguing that the overdensity presented in paper  i could be accounted for by correcting s98 extinction values with the asymptotic correction introduced by b00 and using @xmath23 as the symmetric plane of the galaxy to model the warp in the @xmath24 region .",
    "since the cma overdensity appears strong and peaked in the radial distribution of m - giants in paper i , we checked the assumption of m04 by studying the radial distribution of m - giants in the same region that they used : @xmath25 and @xmath24 , where @xmath26 is the galactic latitude calculated from the warped galactic plane .",
    "this is shown on figure  1 with the galactic plane taken as @xmath23 .",
    "even when using this simple warp model of m04 , the radial distribution of m - giants in the direction of cma shows a clear overdensity of stars at the position we previously identified in paper i ( centred on @xmath27 ) .",
    "moreover , the star counts of the northern hemisphere display an asymmetric behaviour with an overabundance of stars , with respect to the south , for @xmath28 and @xmath29",
    ". the star counts should be symmetric in the lower distance interval since the warp only begins at @xmath30 in the direction of cma ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter y04 ) .",
    "furthermore , underestimating the displacement of the warp at large distances should produce an overestimate of the counts in the _ southern _ hemisphere for @xmath31 .",
    "the low distance overestimate is to be expected from contamination by local dwarfs ; this is an artefact of the simple m04 warp model at short distances , where the warp should not have any influence . in the same way ,",
    "fainter dwarfs that are contaminating the sample are wrongly taken as m - giants at large distances .    due to the fact that in m04 , the star counts are summed up along the line of sight , these overestimates of the northern counts _ hide _ the presence of the ( southern ) cma overdensity visible at around @xmath32@xmath33 .",
    "however , since the angular maximum of the southern warp is thought to be only @xmath34 away ( at @xmath35 , see e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; y04 ) , the galactic warp should indeed be taken into account when dealing with the cma overdensity .",
    "therefore , we re - analyze the radial distribution , but this time using the y04 model of the warp . to avoid as much as possible contamination of the m - giants by local dwarfs",
    ", we impose a low latitude cut at @xmath36 and we restrict the color range of our stars to @xmath37 .",
    "these limits are particularly important since extinction reaches high values near the plane and even with the b00 correction , a small underestimate of the extinction shifts red disc stars a little redder and they can enter the m - giant selection box . shifting the lower colour limit to the red also minimises this contamination .",
    "the results are shown on figure  2 and , as could be expected from the improvement over the previous simple warp model , the cma overdensity becomes more clearly visible . reducing our sample to higher latitudes ( e.g. @xmath38 ) does not affect the distributions , meaning that systematic selection effects produced be extinction are not responsible for the overdensity in the southern hemisphere .",
    "it can also be noticed that our more conservative m - giant selection and this better modeling of the warp corrects the asymmetry of figure  1 at @xmath28 and @xmath29 , which was caused by overestimating the warping of the galactic plane at low distances and from asymmetric contamination of local dwarfs in the high distance m - giant sample . even considering that the y04 warp model does not have as large a displacement as the @xcite 2mass - based model ( see e.g. figure  2 of y04 ) ,",
    "it is only at higher distances than the bulk of the cma overdensity that the two models actually deviate from each other .",
    "it could also be argued that we are in fact observing the south warp curling back up to the galactic plane at the edge of the disc as it is seen for the gaseous warp @xcite . in this case",
    ", we would indeed expect the stars to pile up along the line of sight when the warp returns to the mean plane .",
    "however , this happens for the gas at much higher distances ( @xmath39 ) and at the estimated cma distance , the gaseous warp gently dives in the southern hemisphere ( as modeled here ) .",
    "therefore , a model that is highly different from what is currently known of the stellar / gaseous warp should be summoned to explain the cma overdensity in a warp scenario .",
    "thus , we have to conclude that the cma overdensity presented in paper i _ really is an unknown feature that appears in addition to the galactic warp_.    using the warp model changes only slightly the counts and morphology of cma compared to paper  i. indeed , the number of m - giants that belong to the overdensity only drops by @xmath40 , the distance to the structure is still in the same range and in good agreement with the trgb result presented above , and its fwhm remains the same .",
    "this means that at this location , the warp is only contributing a minor number of m - giant stars compared to the cma overdensity .",
    "to study this population and other low latitude structures at higher longitude in greater depth we undertook a series of observations on the nights of april 7 - 12 , 2004 with the 2-degree field ( 2df ) spectrograph at the anglo - australian telescope ( aat ) .",
    "we employed two different spectrograph settings , with the 1200v grating on spectrograph 1 ( covering 46005600  at 1 / pixel ) and with the 1200r grating on spectrograph 2 ( covering 80009000 , also at 1 / pixel ) . while a detailed analysis of this dataset will be presented in forthcoming papers , we focus here on the radial velocities of stars selected to be m - giant candidates obtained with spectrograph 1 in a field centered on the cma overdensity .",
    "these were chosen from the colour - magnitude region of sample a : @xmath41 , @xmath42 , and with estimated distances ( using the above calibration ) in the range @xmath43 .",
    "the spectra were extracted using the ` 2dfdr ' reduction software @xcite , but then calibrated in wavelength and corrected for contamination from sky emission using algorithms developed by our group .",
    "using fourier cross - correlation methods , the velocities of the stars were calculated by comparison to a range of radial velocity standard stars of type f  m ( both dwarfs and giants ) .",
    "the velocity value corresponding to the template that best - matched the spectrum of the survey star was selected .",
    "the typical resulting radial velocity uncertainty of well - measured m - giant stars was @xmath44 in spectrograph  1 .",
    "the top panel of figure  3 shows the distribution of the radial velocities of the 75 m - giant stars present in two 2df fields centred on the bulk of the cma overdensity  within a dergee of @xmath45 and @xmath46  and within @xmath47 of its mean distance  @xmath48 .",
    "the most striking feature is the bimodality of the distribution .",
    "a kolmogorov - smirnov test shows that there is less than @xmath49 probability that this distribution is drawn from the best single - gaussian fit of the data .",
    "therefore , a maximum - likelihood fit of the sum of two normal distributions was performed and shows a first peak centered at @xmath50 with a dispersion of @xmath51 and a more populated peak centered on @xmath52 , with a dispersion of @xmath2 ( see figure  4 ) .",
    "taking the radial velocity uncertainties into account in the maximum - likelihood fit , as estimated from the cross - correlation peak width , the velocity dispersions of the two peaks are @xmath53 and @xmath54 , respectively",
    ".    since the second peak contains almost twice as many stars as the first and since its stars are centered around the distance of cma ( see bottom panel of figure  3 ) , we tentatively identify it with the large cma overdensity that appears on figure  2 .",
    "moreover , if these stars are orbiting the galaxy , they have a mean rotational velocity ( @xmath55 ) that is too low for a thin disc , and is even low for a slower thick disc population ( @xmath56 , where we assume a circular velocity of @xmath9 and take the thick asymmetric drift of @xmath57 found by @xcite ) . though the precise kinematic properties of the outer rim of the galactic disc are poorly known ( and extrapolations from local measurements are likely to be misleading ) , the low observed velocity dispersion is surely incompatible with a thick disc population , which has solar neighbourhood velocity dispersions of @xmath58 @xcite .",
    "the position and dispersion of the first peak are difficult to explain . indeed ,",
    "its stars appear too far away to coincide with a thin disc population contaminating our sample which we would expect to be located at a distance of @xmath59 at this radial velocity ( assuming a circular velocity of @xmath9 ) .",
    "it is possible that we are significantly overestimating the distances to these stars ; the fit to the rgb we determined in section 2 is adequate for cma but populations of different metallicity and/or age could follow a different relation .",
    "however , the very low dispersion of the peak is unexpected for a disc population .",
    "another explanation would be that the cma overdensity is composed of two populations with different mean velocity .",
    "the low dispersion of the two peaks , similar to what is observed in tidal streams ( see e.g. @xcite for the sgr dwarf or @xcite for the m31 stream ) , argues in favour of an accretion scenario .    to summarize , the observed kinematics of m - giants stars in the centre of the cma structure do not show a distribution that would be expected for a single disc population or a warp orbiting the milky way .",
    "the clear asymmetry in addition to the warp in the direction of canis major and the peculiar radial velocity of these stars show that there is an extra population in this direction , rotating around the milky way in a prograde direction at a lower mean rotational velocity than what would be expected for disc stars .",
    "this structure at the edge of the disc may indicate that the galaxy shows the same kind of substructure that were recently discovered at the edge of the disc of m31 @xcite .",
    "as we have already mentioned in paper  i , this cma population could be the remnant of the accretion of a dwarf galaxy onto the galactic plane . with a mean value of @xmath60 ,",
    "the radial velocities of cma falls in the range of the radial velocities of the grouping of globular clusters identified in paper  i ( see their figure  12 ) , for the cma dwarf .",
    "this is not surprising as this explorative simulation was mainly made to see if the accretion scenario could reproduce the observations , and the kinematic information available at that time was meagre . ] while it also correlates well with the @xcite radial velocities of m - giants belonging to the ring - like galactic anticentre stellar structure .",
    "moreover , the low dispersion of the distribution of radial velocities of cma m - giants is compatible with an accretion scenario . while this could be a sign that the ` ring ' and the cma overdensity are related",
    ", it should also be noted that the distances to these two features are different .",
    "therefore , it may not prove possible to link the two in a direct way and would require an alternate accretion scenario , in which the cma dwarf has been in the process of being accreted for a longer time than previously thought . in this case",
    ", it would not have created the ` ring ' and the cma overdensity in the same passage around the milky way but in successive orbits , with its tidal arms wrapped a few times around the galactic disc . if simulations reveal this is a plausible scenario , it could also be interesting to see whether the low latitude structure presented by @xcite in the triangulum - andromeda direction can be explained in this way or whether it is too far away from the galaxy to be created by the same accretion process .    finally and with the recent discovery of a putative distant spiral arm in ( mainly ) the fourth quadrant of the milky way @xcite , it is worth considering the possibility that the cma overdensity is in fact the prolongation of this spiral arm to lower longitudes .",
    "even if their observations do not overlap with cma , the radial velocity we present here could be compatible with their velocities that reach @xmath61 at @xmath62 .",
    "the age of the cma stars ( paper  ii ) and the structure of the overdensity ( paper  i ) would however be hard to explain in this scenario .",
    "the confusion between the cma overdensity and the warp that caught @xcite brings up questions on the real nature and dimensions of the warp .",
    "how much of the canis major overdensity has until now been taken as the warp ?",
    "disentangling the role and extent of each may prove to be a difficult task .",
    "nfm would like to thank annette ferguson for useful discussions on the galactic warp .",
    "the referee is thanked for useful comments that helped improve the letter .",
    "bellazzini m. , ferraro f. , pancino e. 2001 , apj  556 , 635 bellazzini m. , ibata r. , monaco l , martin n. , irwin m. , lewis g. 2004 , accepted ( paper  ii ) bonifacio p. , monai s. & beers t. 2000 , aj  120 , 2065 ( b00 ) burton w. 1988 , in galactic and extragalactic radio astronomy . ed .",
    "g. l. verschuur , k. i. kellerman , springer .",
    "crane j. , majewski s. , rocha - pinto h. , frinchaboy p. , skrutskie m. & law d. 2003 , apj  594 , l119 dehnen w. & binney j. 1998 , mnras  298 , 387 djorgovski s. & sosin c. 1989 , apj  341 , l13 ferguson a. , irwin m. , ibata r. , lewis g. & tanvir n. 2002 , aj  124 , 1452 ibata r. , wyse r. , gilmore g. , irwin m. & suntzeff n. 1997 , aj  113 , 634 ibata r. , irwin m. , lewis g. , ferguson a. & tanvir n. 2003 , mnras  340 , 21 ibata r. , chapman s. , ferguson a. , irwin m. , lewis g. & mcconnachie a. 2004 , mnras  351 , 117 lpez - corredoira m. , cabrera - lavers a. , garzn f. & hammersley p. 2002 , a&a  394 , 883 majewski s. , skrutskie m. , weinberg m. & ostheimer j. 2003 , apj  599 , 1082 martin n. , ibata r. , bellazzini m. , irwin m. , lewis g. & dehnen w. 2004 , mnras  348 , 12 ( paper  i ) mcclure - griffiths n. , dickey j. , gaensler b. & green a. 2004 , apj  607 , l127 mcconnachie a. , irwin m. , ferguson a. , ibata r. , lewis g. & tanvir n. 2004 , mnras  350 , 243 momany y. , zaggia s. , bonifacio p. , piotto g. , de angeli f. , bedin l. & carraro g. 2004 , a&a  421 , l29 ( m04 ) newberg h. , yanny b. et al .",
    "2002 , apj  569 , 245 robin a. , reyl c. , derrire s. & picaud s. 2003 , a&a  409 , 523 rocha - pinto h. , majewski s. , skrutskie m. , crane j. & patterson r. , _ astro - ph/0405437 _ schlegel d. , finkbeiner d. & davis m. 1998 , apj  500 , 525 ( s98 ) soubiran c. , bienaym o. , siebert a. 2003 , a&a 398 , 141 taylor k. , bailey j. , wilkins t. , shortridge k. , glazebrook k. , 1996 , adass , 5 , 195 yanny b. , newberg h. et al .",
    "2003 , apj  588 , 824 yusifov i. 2004 , in the magnetized interstellar medium , b. uyaniker , w. reich & r. wielebinski eds .",
    "katlenburg - lindau ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in response to criticism by @xcite , that the recently - identified canis major ( cma ) overdensity could be simply explained by the galactic warp , we present proof of the existence of a stellar population in the direction of cma that can not be explained by known galactic components . by analyzing the radial distribution of counts of m - giant stars in this direction , </S>",
    "<S> we show that the @xcite warp model overestimates the number of stars in the northern hemisphere , hence hiding the cma feature in the south . </S>",
    "<S> the use of a better model of the warp has little influence on the morphology of the overdensity and clearly displays an excess of stars grouped at a distance of @xmath0 . to lend further support to the existence of a population that does not belong to the galactic disc , we present radial velocities of m - giant stars in the centre of the cma structure that were obtained with the 2df spectrograph at the aat . </S>",
    "<S> the extra population shows a radial velocity of @xmath1 , which is significantly higher than the typical velocity of the disc at the distance of cma . </S>",
    "<S> this population also has a low dispersion ( @xmath2 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the canis major overdensity is therefore highly unlikely to be due to the galactic warp , adding weight to the hypothesis that we are observing a disrupting dwarf galaxy or its remnants . </S>",
    "<S> this leads to questions on what part of cma was previously identified as the warp and how to possibly disentangle the two structures .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxy : structure  galaxy : formation  galaxies : interactions </S>"
  ]
}