{
  "article_text": [
    "over the last few years some tantalizing , but yet far from conclusive , evidence has been accumulating in support of the idea that some star clusters could harbor a central black hole ( bh ) with a mass of the order of @xmath5 or more .",
    "detection of such an intermediate mass black hole ( imbh ) has been claimed for @xmath6 and @xmath7 @xcite .",
    "however , alternative dynamical models without a central bh have been proposed for these clusters @xcite .",
    "interestingly , the visual appearance of globulars containing an imbh is not that of a so - called core - collapsed cluster , but rather that of a cluster with a still sizable core @xcite .",
    "imbhs present a high theoretical and observational interest as these could be potential ultra - luminous x - ray sources and even emit gravitational waves , detectable by the next generation of gravitational wave detectors , as a result of close interactions with stars .",
    "however , despite this interest and the fact that theoretical studies of bhs in stellar systems started more than 30 years ago ( e.g. , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , detailed direct n - body simulations to study the dynamics of an idealized model with single stars and a central bh have been performed only recently ( @xcite ; see also the studies on the formation of imbhs by runaway mergers of massive stars by @xcite ) .",
    "one ingredient that complicates n - body simulations of globular clusters is the presence of primordial binaries .",
    "often , these are neglected in large simulations despite the increasing observational evidence that many stars in a globular cluster have a companion @xcite .",
    "this frequent neglect is due to the dramatic increase in computational resources required in a simulation where the local dynamical timescale may be many orders of magnitude smaller than the global relaxation timescale ( hard binaries have an orbital period of a few hours , while the half - mass relaxation time can be up to a few billion years ) .",
    "the study of the dynamics in the presence of primordial binaries has been mainly limited to fokker - planck or monte carlo approaches @xcite and to direct simulations with rather modest particle numbers , from @xmath8 @xcite to recent higher resolution simulations , with @xmath0 up to @xmath2 ( @xcite , hereafter paperi and paperii respectively ) .",
    "the results of these direct simulations have to be extrapolated to a realistic number of particles ( e.g. , by means of the @xcite model ) before being applied to the interpretation of the evolution of typical globular clusters , that have @xmath9 stars . some realistic simulations , including primordial binaries are available @xcite , but these are limited only to the first stage of the life of young dense clusters .",
    "in the case of open clusters , m67 has been modeled in a 36,000-body simulation running for several gigayears @xcite .",
    "the presence of either an imbh or a significant population of primordial binaries leads to an early release of abundant energy , inhibiting the development of a deep core collapse and hence of the onset of gravothermal oscillations .",
    "an imbh can generate energy by swallowing or tightly binding stars deep in its potential well [ note also that energy can be generated through encounters of stars in the density cusp that is formed around the bh ] , while primordial binaries can generate energy by rapidly increasing binary binding energy through three and four body encounters .",
    "energy thus generated in the core of the system fuels the expansion of the half - mass radius , leading to a self - similar expansion of the entire system @xcite .    in this work we present the first direct simulations ( with a number of equal - mass particles up to @xmath10 ) of the evolution of star clusters with both a significant fraction of primordial binaries ( 10  % ) as well as an imbh with a mass of @xmath11 of the total mass of the system .",
    "we address the following questions . under the combined effect of the bh and of the binaries , what is the equilibrium size of the cluster core ?",
    "how is the binary population affected by the presence of the central imbh ?",
    "which physical processes dominate in the core ? in principle two",
    "competing effects are possible : the bh may either enhance the disruption rate of binaries both indirectly , due to the creation of a density cusp , and directly , by tidal stripping @xcite , or it may reduce the probability of interactions between binaries and singles , by producing a low stellar density in a relatively large core @xcite . which process is dominant is of fundamental importance .",
    "these questions are addressed in the next sections .",
    "like in paperi  and paperii , the simulations ( see table  [ tab : runs ] ) have been performed using the nbody-6 code @xcite .",
    "for this project nbody6 has been modified with the kind help of dr .",
    "aarseth to ensure a more efficient and accurate treatment of the dynamics around the bh by fine tuning the parameters controlling chain regularization .",
    "all our results are presented using standard units @xcite in which @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the gravitational constant , @xmath14 is the total mass , and @xmath15 is the total energy of the system of bound objects . in other words",
    ", @xmath15 does not include the internal binding energy of the binaries , only the kinetic energy of their center - of - mass motion and the potential energy contribution where each binary is considered to be a point mass .",
    "we denote the corresponding unit of time by @xmath16 for the relaxation time , we use the following expression @xcite : @xmath17 where @xmath18 is the half - mass radius and @xmath0 denotes the number of original objects ( binaries + singles ) .",
    "the core radius of the system is defined as the density averaged radius : @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the distance of the @xmath21-th star from the density center , and the density @xmath22 around each particle is computed from the distance to the fifth nearest neighbor @xcite .",
    "a discussion of other possible definitions for the core radius is extensively given in @xcite ; see also paperii .",
    "like in paperi  and paperii , the internal energy of the binaries is measured in units of @xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the initial mean kinetic energy per particle of the system ( the binaries being replaced by their barycenter ) .",
    "as we are considering simulations with purely classical gravitational interactions only , all our results are intrinsically scale - free and do not depend on the specific choices in physical units for the total mass and for the scale radius of the system modeled .    for reference in physical units , a globular cluster ( described by a plummer model ) with @xmath25 stars ,",
    "a total mass of @xmath26 and a half - mass radius of @xmath27 has a half - mass relaxation time @xmath28 ; in this cluster a binary , formed by equal mass stars each of mass @xmath29 , with binding energy of @xmath30 has a semi - major axis of @xmath31 .",
    "the models considered in this paper are isolated with stars of equal mass @xmath32 , plus a bh , introduced as a massive star , with mass ( @xmath33 ) in the range @xmath11 of the total mass of the system .",
    "the initial distribution is either a plummer model ( entries `` pl '' in tab .  [ tab : runs ] ) or a king model ( entries `` k '' in tab .  [ tab : runs ] ) with concentration index @xmath34 .",
    "our standard models have a primordial binary ratio of @xmath35 .",
    ".summary of n - body runs[tab : runs ] [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     after the first mild contraction , all lagrangian radii ( shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : lrpl ] ) start to expand steadily and a self - similar regime sets in , with the half - mass radius growing in proportion to @xmath36 , in agreement with the theoretical argument given by @xcite and as found for runs with single stars only by @xcite .",
    "the rate of expansion of the half - mass radius is set by the amount of energy generated in the core @xcite . in our runs with binaries plus",
    "imbh this is marginally bigger ( by @xmath37 at @xmath38 ) than in runs with binaries only ; without a bh the half - mass expansion starts only after core collapse , which takes @xmath39 in that case ( paperi ) .",
    "conversely , if a bh but no binaries are present , the expansion rate of @xmath18 is reduced by @xmath40 .",
    "a summary of the properties of the plummer runs is reported in table  [ tabpl ] .",
    "this picture does not appear to depend much on the number of particles used , except quantitatively for the known logarithmic dependence on @xmath0 of the ratio @xmath41 @xcite . to validate the results of our series of @xmath42",
    "runs we have performed a run with @xmath10 and an imbh mass @xmath43 ( thus keeping quasi - constant the ratio @xmath44 and going toward a bh mass closer to the one expected by the @xmath45 relation ) .",
    "the evolution of the system , reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : validation ] , is indeed very similar , both in terms of binary destruction rate and in terms of the lagrangian radii evolution .      at fixed number of particles ,",
    "imbh mass and number of primordial binaries , there is no expectation that the long term evolution of the system depends much on the details of the initial conditions , as these are erased on a relaxation time - scale ( see also paperii ) . to verify this",
    "we have also started some of our runs ( see table  [ tab : runs ] ) from an initial king profile , with different values of the concentration parameter @xmath46 .",
    "the evolution of the core radius with respect to the half mass radius is reported in fig .",
    "[ fig : rcrh ] . both the @xmath47 and the @xmath48 models evolve toward @xmath49 on a time - scale of @xmath50 ( this is the same value reached in the simulations starting from a plummer profile ) .",
    "interestingly the @xmath48 model presents an initial expansion of the core , as the initial central concentration is so high that the energy released by three and four body encounters can not be completely dissipated by expansion of the half mass radius .",
    "this behavior is similar to that observed in runs with primordial binaries only but with yet higher central concentrations ( @xcite ; paperii ) .",
    "this picture is confirmed also in a different series of runs - starting from @xmath34 with @xmath51 and no binaries -that exhibit a very similar behavior .",
    "the evolution of the number of binaries in our simulations is driven by two competing processes : the formation of new binaries and the destruction of existing ones . as we discussed in detail in paperi",
    "( see in particular sec .  2 in that paper ) , the probability of forming new binaries is greatly suppressed with respect to the probability of destructing an existing binary . in fact , the leading formation channel for a new binary from single stars is a three body encounter , which is proportional to @xmath52 .",
    "@xmath53 is the number density of single stars and this density is expressed in physical units , appropriate for encounters , such that @xmath54 corresponds to inter - particle distances equal to the ninety - degree turnaround impact parameter ( @xcite ) .",
    "therefore in this units we have @xmath55 . the leading destruction channels are instead given by binary - single and binary - binary encounters and therefore proportional to @xmath56 and @xmath57 , where @xmath58 is the number density of binaries , in the same physical units considered for @xmath53 .",
    "as during our simulations the core number density of binaries is similar to that of singles , these two last channel dominates over the three single stars encounters .",
    "this expectation is confirmed empirically in our runs , where the number of dynamically formed binaries that can be found after a few relaxation times in the simulation ( typically about @xmath59 of the number of single stars ) is negligible not only with respect to the number of primordial binaries but also with respect to the number of disrupted binaries .",
    "essentially , the dominant dynamical mechanism that changes the net number of binaries is that of binary disruption . of course , the exchange of binary members during a binary - single encounter is also frequent , but this does not alter the net number of binaries in the cluster .",
    "as the presence of the bh dominates the global dynamics of the cluster , the evolution of the binaries presents some remarkable differences from the scenario where no central bh is present .",
    "we can distinguish two phases .",
    "the presence of a bh significantly accelerates the rate at which binaries are disrupted in the first few half - mass relaxation times ( see fig .  [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "the reason is that binaries that pass near the bh can be quickly destroyed .",
    "the disruption rate is approximately constant during the first @xmath60 , while without a bh disruption takes a while to get underway .",
    "the initial disruption rate depends on the mass of the bh : a more massive bh starts burning binaries at a higher rate , as can be seen from fig .  [ fig1 ] .    for our plummer run with @xmath42 , @xmath61 and @xmath62",
    "we observe a binary depletion rate of @xmath63 binaries per initial half - mass crossing time ( @xmath64 ) , during the first @xmath60 ( here @xmath65 ) .    for this time interval we present in fig .",
    "[ fig : rirt ] the distribution of the radial positions at which binaries are destroyed .",
    "this is obtained by looking in nbody6 at the position at which binaries are flagged by the code as too wide to continue meriting special numerical treatment in terms of ks @xcite solutions ( see @xcite for a detailed description of the algorithm ) . in short , a ks solution is terminated in case of an external perturbation at the level of @xmath66 or higher of the internal gravitational force between the members of the binary ( if the binary is not destroyed by the perturbation , its special numerical treatment is eventually restarted when the external force returns below the critical @xmath66 threshold ) . in the histogram of fig .",
    "[ fig : rirt ] there are 226 events registered , but these include also close encounters with perturbers that do not change the net numbers of binaries ( e.g. exchanges ) .",
    "the net number of destroyed binaries for the time interval considered is @xmath67 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) . around half of the binaries",
    "are disrupted within the black hole sphere of influence @xmath68 ( @xmath69 out of @xmath70 ks solutions terminated within @xmath68 ) .",
    "interestingly only two of them happen to be so close to the bh tidal radius @xmath71 that the disruption may be considered related to the tidal stripping force exerted by the bh ( see left panel of fig .  [",
    "fig : rirt ] ) . here",
    "the tidal radius is defined as the radius where the gravitational force between the members of the binary equals the tidal force exerted by the bh ( see e.g. , @xcite ) , i.e. as @xmath72 where @xmath73 is the semi - major axis of the binary . with this respect ,",
    "the theoretical model recently proposed by @xcite applied to our @xmath42 , @xmath74 , @xmath62 simulation would give ( from his eqs .",
    "11 - 12 ) a tidal disruption rate of @xmath75 binaries per initial half - mass crossing time , so that we observe less tidally stripped binaries than expected ( @xmath76 ) .",
    "the disruption of binaries by the bh is thus mainly due to an indirect effect : binaries venturing close to the bh , where the density is higher , are more likely to interact with a single star or with another binary before having the chance to being tidally destroyed by the imbh .",
    "in fact in our simulations we often observe the presence of hierarchical systems within @xmath68 , with the bh playing the role of a perturber . fig .",
    "[ fig : rirt ] nicely summarizes this picture : binaries are disrupted at a significantly enhanced rate within @xmath68 ( right panel ) , but the minimum distance from the bh is the order of @xmath77 ( left panel ) . the bi - modal distribution in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : rirt ] also reflects the enhanced probability of close encounters and binary disruption within the influence sphere of the bh , as can be seen from fig .",
    "[ fig : decom ] .    after the initial transient phase a self - similar expansion sets in , where the average core density is much less ( approximately by a factor @xmath4 ) than it would be without the presence of a central compact object . in this second phase",
    "we observe ( see fig .  [ fig1 ] )",
    "a reduced rate of binary disruption ( as this rate is proportional to the square of the density , e.g. see @xcite ) , so that the difference between a simulation with and without a bh becomes remarkable .",
    "the turning point is around @xmath78 , when the number of surviving binaries for a simulation with a central object becomes greater than in the absence of a bh .",
    "our fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] has been given in units of the initial half - mass relaxation time , but the picture remains qualitatively the same even if we consider a co - moving time coordinate to take into account the differences between the half - mass radii of a simulation with and without a bh .",
    "interestingly the spatial distribution of binaries is also different from the case without a bh ( see figs .  [ fig2 ] ) .",
    "after @xmath79 the number of binaries within the @xmath80 lagrangian radius is much less for the simulation with a bh .",
    "this is probably due to the disruption of binaries that approach close to the bh . in the presence of a bh , binaries tend to be more concentrated between the @xmath80 lagrangian radius and the half - mass radius , while in the absence of a bh , binaries can sink deeper into the central region of the cluster . as noted by @xcite for simulations without primordial binaries ,",
    "the mass segregation efficiency is different in presence of a central bh .",
    "if we compare the evolution of the binding energy distribution of the binaries in a run with and without a central bh , we can see that the net effect of the bh at later times is to somewhat enhance the survival probability of binaries with binding energies of a few @xmath23s ( @xmath81 ) , especially for binaries within the half - mass radius ( see fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) .",
    "this feature is especially apparent in a two - dimensional plot of the distribution of binaries as a function of binding energy and radial distance from the cluster center , depicted in the bottom panels of fig .",
    "the rather strong correlation between radius and binding energy that is observed ( e.g. , see * ? ? ?",
    "* paperi ) in systems without a central compact object is thus almost absent .",
    "the ratio of moderately hard ( @xmath82 ) to hard ( @xmath83 ) binaries is greater by about a factor @xmath84 at @xmath85 in our runs with the presence of an imbh ( see top panel of fig .  [ fig2 ] ) .",
    "the possible use of this ratio as a diagnostic to evidence the presence of an imbh can be impaired if there is an initial segregation of primordial binaries depending on their semi - axis .",
    "specifically if softer binaries are preferentially born in the core of the cluster then some of them could still survive after a few relaxation times , mimicking the signal due to an imbh .",
    "however such a cluster would be characterized by a significantly smaller core radius with respect to a cluster truly hosting an imbh .",
    "this picture , presented for a @xmath42 plummer model , is representative of all our set of simulations .",
    "we have shown in sec.[sec : sim ] that the global evolution of the system is not sensitive on the details of the initial conditions .",
    "similarly the evolution of the binary abundance at fixed relaxation times does not significantly depend on the number of particles @xmath0 ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : validation ] ) or on the details of the initial conditions : in fig .",
    "[ fig : bin_king ] we depict the evolution of @xmath86 for a number of different simulations and the pattern is consistently similar . the same trend shown in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] is also obtained starting from different initial conditions , as we have verified in the runs starting from @xmath47 and @xmath48 king models .",
    "all these results show that the evolutionary differences in runs with and without a central black hole are physical and not just due to random fluctuations .",
    "the n - body systems in our simulations , despite being isolated , lose mass , i.e. some particles acquire a positive energy and are consequently removed from the system ( if they are unbound and reach a distance of @xmath87 from the center of system ) .",
    "there are two main contributions to this process .",
    "one is diffusion of particles in the energy space , that leads to the evaporation of particles with binding energy very close to @xmath88 ( that translates into a small residual velocity at infinity , which we call `` ejection velocity '' ) .",
    "the other is due to strong interactions of binaries with other stars and/or with the imbh with the consequent ejection of a high velocity particle ( the slingshot effect , see @xcite ) .    in our plummer",
    "run with @xmath42 , @xmath62 with @xmath61 we find that a fraction of @xmath89 of the stars of the cluster leave the system in a relaxation time and that @xmath90 of them have ejection velocities that exceed by at least five times the core velocity dispersion . among these @xmath91 were binaries ; in addition one triple was ejected from the system .",
    "a distribution of the ejection velocities , as measured in a series of 5 simulations with @xmath42 , is shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : esc ] .",
    "these results , especially for the high velocity tail of the distribution , need to be confirmed by more realistic simulations that include a mass spectrum and account for possible stellar collisions during close encounters , but they suggest that the interaction of imbh with a significant population of binaries may efficiently lead to the production of a number of ultra fast stars , i.e stars with an ejection velocity of several hundreds @xmath92 .",
    "the ejection velocity resulting from a binary - imbh interaction is limited to be of the order of the orbital velocity of the binary members with respect to their center of mass ( e.g. , see @xcite ) .",
    "this implies that for main sequence stars the maximum ejection velocity is of the order of the escape velocity from the star ( of order of a few hundreds @xmath92 ) and this is approximately independent on the mass of the stars due to the ( quasi ) linear mass - radius relationship along the main sequence .",
    "therefore only binaries with at least one highly compact member ( a white dwarf , a neutron star or a stellar mass bh ) can lead to the production of hypervelocity stars ( i.e. stars with velocity exceeding @xmath93 ) in consequence of tidal shredding due to an imbh . from the observational point of view",
    "this decreases the likelihood of a globular clusters origin for main sequence hypervelocity stars .",
    "the expected leading production channel is in this case an interaction with a supermassive black hole to be produced , as initially proposed by @xcite and recently investigated by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "unfortunately the possibility of identifying observationally ejected stars with velocities below @xmath94 km / s does not appear very promising .",
    "in fact the several hundreds of km / s range of velocities is shared also by stars in the disk of our galaxy , so an accurate measure of the proper motion would be required to trace back to the center of a globular cluster the trajectory of a candidate main sequence ejected star .",
    "in this paper we have presented for the first time the results of direct n - body simulations of the evolution of a star cluster with a population of primordial binaries that harbors a central imbh , with a mass of the order of @xmath95 of the total mass of the system . in order to begin to analyze the basic evolutionary processes we have restricted our simulations to isolated systems of stars of equal mass , neglecting at this stage stellar evolution and physical collisions .",
    "the environment around the bh turns out to be of great interest from a dynamical point of view .",
    "it represents a laboratory where complex interactions between hierarchical systems take place . around the bh",
    "we observe usually one or more stars tightly bound to it . with a significant population of primordial binaries",
    ", it frequently happens that a binary approaches the center of the system .",
    "interactions between these subsystems are important not only from a dynamical point of view , but also because they form a factory to produce exotic objects , such as tight ( x - ray emitting ) binaries and high velocities escapers , which we observe in high numbers in our simulations .    from a computational point of view",
    "the complex interactions between binaries and the bh have proved to be very challenging for current state of the art n - body algorithms . in our simulations we had to resort to several restarts of the computation to fine tune the integration parameters in order to achieve energy errors conservation below @xmath96 at the end of the simulation and below @xmath97 per dynamical time .",
    "clearly , new regularization methods have to be developed to provide both more accuracy and higher stability .",
    "this will allow to perform automatic runs , a necessary condition to employ a more systematic study of systems with imbh and binaries .",
    "we have shown that a bh with a mass of around @xmath95 of the cluster mass can produce most of the energy required to fuel the expansion of the star cluster , so that the evolution of the large scale structure of a star cluster with primordial binaries and a central bh is remarkably similar to that attained in the absence of binaries ( see @xcite ) .",
    "even so , the evolution of the population of primordial binaries is strongly influenced by the bh : binaries are disrupted primarily within the influence sphere of the bh , but we note a significant lack of binaries tidally disrupted by the bh with respect to predictions based on the loss cone theory .",
    "these theoretical estimates only take into account interactions between the binaries and the bh starting from the density of binaries in the core .",
    "instead we observe that most of the binaries are destroyed by three and four body encounters with other stars once they enter the influence sphere of the bh and before they have the chance to venture close enough to the bh to be tidally shredded .",
    "these three and four body encounters within the influence sphere of the bh often lead to the ejection of stars with proper motions easily exceeding 10 times the core velocity dispersion of the cluster .",
    "we observe events with velocities up to 50 times the core velocity dispersion , that is of the order of @xmath98 for a typical globular clusters .",
    "binaries within the influence sphere of an imbh can therefore originate a significant population of high velocity stars ejected from the system , whose presence could be detected observationally .",
    "tidal shredding of binaries with main sequence components limits the ejection velocity to a few hundreds @xmath92 , but higher velocities can be obtained if at least one member of the binary is a compact object ( white dwarf , neutron star , or stellar mass bh ) .",
    "one related intriguing , although highly speculative possibility is indeed the dynamical origin of a @xmath99 pulsar candidate from the globular cluster remnant irs13 , which is considered to host an imbh @xcite .    in principle , an indirect evidence for the presence of an imbh in an old globular cluster could be obtained by observing the distribution of binaries : observational detection of an unexpectedly large fraction of only moderately hard binaries in the core could be used as circumstantial evidence for the presence of an imbh in old star clusters , i.e. in those systems whose age would imply a depletion in the central region of binaries with binding energy below @xmath100 . with our runs",
    "we have shown that these binaries are able to survive in significant numbers when an imbh is present . for a typical globular cluster",
    "this would imply to be able to measure in the core the ratio of binaries with semi - major axis of about @xmath101 to those with @xmath102 , that appears to be particularly sensitive to the presence of an imbh ( see fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] ) .",
    "this relative measure has the advantage of being relatively independent from the precise value of the primordial binary ratio ( clearly unknown for observed cluster ) , but it is extremely challenging for the present observational techniques of binary detection . this would in fact mean to be able not only to detect a significant number of binaries in the dense core environment of a globular cluster , but also to accurately measure the semi - major axis of these binaries down to a fraction of au .",
    "in addition , as we have mentioned in sec .",
    "4 , if softer primordial binaries are preferentially born in the center of the cluster , this diagnostic fails .    a more promising observational evidence for the presence of an imbh in old , relaxed , globular clusters can instead be given by a simpler measure , i.e. the ratio of the core to half mass radius .",
    "this quantity is set by the efficiency of energy generation in the core of the cluster and is robust with respect to changes in the details of the initial conditions .",
    "systems made of single stars only have a very small @xmath41 ratio ( @xmath103 ) , as no efficient energy production mechanism is available . when primordial binaries are present , @xmath41 is up to almost one order of magnitude larger and the ratio depends only on the initial fraction of binaries , saturating at @xmath104 ( see paperiand paperii ) .",
    "accounting for a small n - dependence of the ratio , a typical old globular cluster with primordial binaries is expected to have @xmath105 ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "most of the observed globular clusters have instead much larger values for @xmath41 , located in the range @xmath106 $ ] @xcite .",
    "if we were to assume that old globular clusters host an imbh , then we would naturally obtain @xmath107 which is in good agreement with the observations .",
    "clearly , a quantitative comparison with observations would require us to proceed beyond the simple models presented here . to start with",
    ", we would need to include a realistic number of stars to avoid possible biases introduced by the scaling of the ratio of the bh mass to that of single stars .",
    "in addition , the introduction of a realistic initial mass function is likely to modify the concentration of binaries in the center of the system due to mass segregation , and stellar evolution will also influence the distribution of binary binding energy .",
    "however , the main effects presented in this paper are likely to be present , at least in qualitative ways , in more detailed realistic simulations .",
    "we are indebted to sverre aarseth for providing his code nbody-6 with ad - hoc modifications in order to make possible running the simulations presented in this work .",
    "we are grateful to the referee for constructive suggestions that have improved the paper .",
    "we thank holger baumgardt and jun makino for interesting discussions .",
    "this work is supported in part by the grants - in - aid of the ministry of education , culture , sports , science and technology , japan , ( 14079205 ; mt , ea , sm ) and by a grant - in - aid for the 21st century coe center for diversity and universality in physics `` ( sm ) .",
    "p.h . thanks prof .",
    "ninomiya for his kind hospitality at the yukawa institute at kyoto university , through the grants - in - aid for scientific research on priority areas , number 763 , ' ' dynamics of strings and fields \" , from the ministry of education , culture , sports , science and technology , japan .",
    "the numerical simulations have been performed on the condor cluster at the institute for advanced study .",
    "aarseth s. , 2003 , gravitational n - body simulations .",
    "cambridge university press    aarseth , s. 2005 , to appear in few - body problem , annales universitatis turkuensis , c. flynn , ed astro - ph/0511565    albrow , m. d. et al .",
    "2001 , ap.j . , 559 , 1060    bahcall , j. n. and wolf , r. a. 1976 , ap.j . , 209 , 214    baumgardt , h. , hut , p. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s. and portegies zwart s. 2003 , ap.j . ,",
    "582 , l21    baumgardt , h. , makino , j. , hut , p. , mcmillan , s. and portegies zwart , s. 2003 , ap.j . , 589 , 25    baumgardt , h. , makino , j. , and ebisuzaki t. 2004 , ap.j . , 613 , 1133    baumgardt , h. , makino , j. , and ebisuzaki t. 2004 , ap.j . , 613 , 1143    baumgardt , h. , gualandris , a. and portegies zwart , s. 2006 , mnras , 372 , 174    baumgardt , h. , makino , j. , and hut , p. 2005 , ap.j . , 620 , 238    bellazzini , m. , pecci , f.  p. , and messineo m. 2002 , ap.j . , 123 , 1509    casertano , s. and hut , p. 1985 , ap.j . , 298 , 80    ferrarese , l. and merritt , d. 2000 , ap.j . , 539 , l9    j.  m. , g \" urkan m.  a. , joshi k.  j. , rasio f.  a. , 2003 , ap.j . , 593 ,",
    "772    j.  m. and rasio f.  a 2006 , ap.j . , submitted , astro - ph/0608261    b. , goodman j. , cohn h. , murphy b. , 1991 , ap.j .",
    ", 370 , 567    2000 , ap.j . , 539 , l13    gebhardt , k. , rich , r.  m. , and ho , l.  c. 2002 , ap.j . , 578 , l41    gebhardt , k. , rich , r.  m. , and ho , l.  c. 2005 , ap.j . , 634 , 1093    gerssen , j. , van der marel , r. p. , gebhardt , k. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson r. c. , and pryor , c. , 2003 , a.j . , 125 , 376    m. , heggie d.  c. 1994 , mnras , 268 , 257    m. , spurzem r. 2000 , mnras , 317 , 581    ginsburg , i. and loeb , a. 2006 , mnras , 368 , 221    d.  c. , mathieu r.  d. , 1986 , in lnp 267 : the use of supercomputers in stellar dynamics standardised units and time scales .",
    "p 233    d.  c. , aarseth s.  j. , 1992 , mnras , 257 , 513    d. , hut p. , 2003",
    ", the gravitational million - body problem : a multidisciplinary approach to star cluster dynamics .   cambridge university press    heggie , d.c . , trenti , m. , and hut , p. 2006",
    "mnras , 368 , 677    h ' enon , m. 1965 , ann .",
    "astr . , 28 , 62    hills , j.g .",
    "1988 , nat , 331 , 687    hurley , j.r . , pols , o.r . , aarseth , s.j . and",
    "tout , c.a .",
    "2005 , mnras , 363 , 293    hut , p. , 1989",
    ", fundamental timescales in star cluster evolution , in _ dynamics of dense stellar systems . _ ed .",
    "david merritt ( cambridge university press ) , pp .",
    "229 - 236 .",
    "p. , mcmillan s. , goodman j. , mateo m. , phinney e.  s. , pryor c. , richer h.  b. , verbunt f. , weinberg m. , 1992 , pasp , 104 , 981    kustaanheimo , p. and stiefel , e. 1965 , j. reine angew . math .",
    ", 218 , 204    s. , hut p. , 1994",
    ", ap.j . , 427 , 793    , s. , hut , p. , makino , j. 1990 , ap.j .",
    ", 362 , 522    peebles , p.  j. 1972 , ap.j . , 178 , 371    portegies zwart , s.  f. , baumgardt , h. , hut , p. , makino , j. , and mcmillan , s.  l.  w. 2004 , nature , 438 , 724    s.  f. , mcmillan s.  l.  w. , 2004 , proc .",
    "of conference on massive stars in interacting binaries , canada , n. st - louis and a. moffat eds .",
    "( astro - ph/0411188 )    pfahl , e. 2005 , ap.j . , 626 , 849    spitzer , l. 1987 , dynamical evolution of globular clusters , princenton university press , princenton    2002 , ap.j .",
    ", 574 , 740    trenti , m. , heggie , d.c . , and hut , p. 2006 ,",
    "mnras , submitted ( astro - ph/0602409 )    vesperini , e. & chernoff , d.  f.  1994 , ap.j . , 431 , 231    yu , q. and tremaine s. 2003 , ap.j . , 599 , 1129    wang , q.  d. , lu , f.  j. & gotthelf , e.  v. 2006 , mnras , 367 , 937    zhao , b. & bailyn , c.  d. 2005 , a.j . , 129 , 1934",
    "the aarseth s nbody6 code represent one of the few state of the art integrators for the direct integration of collisional n - body systems .",
    "its performance and accuracy have been extensively tested ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the code employs a series of automatic internal accuracy tests at the level of individual timesteps and forces , treatment of hierarchical systems and , of course , conservation of the total integral of motions .",
    "if one of these tests fails , the code resumes the computation from a previously saved snapshot of the system with improved integration parameters , to try to obtain an accuracy within the level required .",
    "if this is not possible , the code eventually stops the computation , returning an error message .    typically , for a system with @xmath108 , the code can guarantee relative errors in the conservation of the total energy at the level of @xmath109 per dynamical time .",
    "the introduction of a population of primordial binaries increases significantly the dynamical range of the computation , as the shortest dynamical timescale to be resolved may be of the order of days , compared a dynamical time of a few million of years for a typical globular cluster .",
    "this is reflected with a relative energy error of the order of @xmath110 per dynamical time ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : error ] ) , that still guarantees an excellent conservation of the energy at the end of the simulation ( the errors tend to have random signs so that the total error increases approximately with the square root of the time ) . the code has a similar performance also for runs that include single stars plus a imbh ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the introduction of an imbh in simulations with primordial binaries introduces additional challenges for the code , as in this case several multiple interacting systems have to be treated in the sphere of influence of the imbh . despite the improvements introduced to increase the performance of the code ( see sec.[sec",
    ": ns ] ) , significantly greater errors with respect to the standard runs for the code happened during our simulations ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : error ] ) , leading to a number of restart of the run performed manually in order to fine tune the integration options , depending on the kind of error message received .    to ensure reliable results we set a maximum allowed energy error per dynamical time of @xmath111 and we definitely stop a simulation that reaches a total energy error of @xmath112 .",
    "this threshold value is typically reached after about 25 initial half mass relaxation times ( thus at a time longer than the hubble time for a typical globular cluster ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first study of the dynamical evolution of an isolated star cluster that combines a significant population of primordial binaries with the presence of a central black hole . </S>",
    "<S> we use equal - mass direct n - body simulations , with @xmath0 ranging from @xmath1 to @xmath2 and a primordial binary ratio of @xmath3 ; the black hole mass is about one percent of the total mass of the cluster . </S>",
    "<S> the evolution of the binary population is strongly influenced by the presence of the black hole , which gives the cluster a large core with a central density cusp . </S>",
    "<S> starting from a variety of initial conditions ( plummer and king models ) , we first encounter a phase , that last approximately @xmath4 half - mass relaxation times , in which binaries are disrupted faster compared to analogous simulations without a black hole . </S>",
    "<S> subsequently , however , binary disruption slows down significantly , due to the large core size . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamical interplay between the primordial binaries and the black hole thus introduces new features with respect to the scenarios investigated so far , where the influence of the black hole and of the binaries have been considered separately . a large core to half mass radius ratio </S>",
    "<S> appears to be a promising indirect evidence for the presence of a intermediate - mass black hole in old globular clusters .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]     stellar dynamics  globular clusters : general  methods : n - body simulations  binaries : general </S>"
  ]
}