{
  "article_text": [
    "open clusters ( oc s ) are excellent tools to infer the evolution of our galaxy from both the chemical and structural points of view , because they provide information on the distribution of the chemical abundances in the disk , on the average ages at various galactic locations , on the initial mass function , on the interactions between thin and thick disks ( e.g. , mayor 1976 , panagia and tosi 1981 , friel 1995 , luhman et al .",
    "2000 ) . the major advantage of using oc s rather than field stars to derive these quantities resides in the circumstance that a ) their current galactic location is not too different from where they were born , and b ) the distances , ages and metallicities of field stars located beyond a limited radius from the sun are highly uncertain .",
    "oc s probably represent the best means to understand how element abundances change with time and with location in the galaxy .",
    "several years ago , young oc s have been suggested to show steeper negative abundance gradients with galactocentric distance than old clusters ( mayor 1976 , panagia & tosi 1981 ) .",
    "however , later extensive studies ( e.g. friel & janes 1993 ) have suggested that the gradient slope is roughly independent of the cluster age .",
    "a striking characteristics of friel & janes sample is that at each galactic radius the oldest clusters happen to be also the most metal rich ones .",
    "this result , if confirmed , would have remarkable implications on our understanding of the galaxy evolution , since it is opposite to any intuitive age - metallicity relation derivable from steady - state scenarios and suggests the existence of short , intense phenomena which may alter significantly local evolutions .",
    "a caveat on these results is that they can be strongly affected by several uncertainties related also to the lack of homogeneity in the derivation of the cluster parameters ( age , metallicity , distance , reddening ) . as discussed e.g. by bragaglia et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , use of literature values can lead to a confusing picture ; for instance , ages derived with different techniques / isochrones may not only be uncertain in absolute value , but also in ranking .",
    "to overcome this problem , we are homogeneously analysing with great accuracy a sample of open clusters at various galactic locations and covering a wide range in age and metallicity .",
    "we derive the age , distance , reddening and approximate metallicity of these systems from deep photometry combined with the synthetic color - magnitude diagrams method ( see e.g. sandrelli et al . 1999 and references therein ) , while accurate element abundance determination is based on high - resolution spectroscopy .",
    "the final sample of oc s necessary to allow for significant statistics on the abundance gradient at various epochs should be of at least 30 objects .",
    "in this paper we present the abundances derived from high - resolution spectroscopy of the first cluster of the sample : ngc 6819 , an intermediate age cluster ( age @xmath3 2.33.1 gyr ) , with ra(2000 ) = 19 41 , dec(2000 ) = + 40 12 , l@xmath4 = 73.98@xmath5 , b@xmath4 = @xmath6 , and galactocentric distance 8.2 kpc .",
    "a recent reference for photometry and derivation of distance and age is rosvick & vandenberg ( 1998 ) .",
    "the observations have been performed with sarg , the new high dispersion spectrograph at the italian telescopio nazionale galileo ( tng ) and this is the first paper where data acquired with this instrument are presented .",
    "spectra of two clump stars were obtained in july 2000 , and one in august 2000 , during the second and third commissioning runs of sarg , the new high dispersion spectrograph at the 3.5  m tng in la palma ( spain ) .",
    "the stars were selected ( using bda , the database for galactic open clusters , mermilliod 1995 ) among fiducial cluster members , selected from proper motions ( sanders 1972 ) , and now confirmed by the velocities measured from our spectra .",
    "the most important data for the program stars are listed in table  [ t:1 ] , along with a summary of the spectral characteristics , and the heliocentric radial velocities ; figure  [ f : fig1 ] gives the location of the stars in the colour magnitude diagram ( top panel ) and on the sky ( bottom panel ) .",
    "being this the first paper based on sarg data , a few details about the spectrograph and the observations are to be provided .",
    "sarg ( gratton et al . 2000 , in preparation ) is a single - arm , white - pupil , cross dispersed echelle spectrograph , permanently mounted at one of the arms of the tng fork .",
    "it is fed by a suitable optical train from the nasmyth focus .",
    "the spectrograph uses an r4 echelle grating in an off - plane , quasi - littrow configuration , that yields an @xmath7  product of 46,000 when coupled with the 100  mm spectrograph beam .",
    "spectral resolution of sarg depends on the selected slit ( a set of 7 is available on the slit wheel , from 0.27 to 1.60 arcsec ) , the maximum value being about 150,000 .",
    "the present observations were obtained using a slit width of 300  @xmath8 m , corresponding to 1.60  arcsec projected on the sky . however",
    ", stellar images did not fill completely this wide slit . during the observations , the seeing value was about 0.7 arcsec . since the guiding accuracy was not yet optimal ( only manual guiding was available when the program spectra were acquired ) , the actual images over the 1 hr exposure time had a fwhm of about 1.2 arcsec , yielding a spectral resolution of about 40,000 .",
    "this value is confirmed by measures of the fwhm of narrow telluric lines .",
    "sarg is equipped with four grism cross dispersers mounted on a wheel ; the present observations were done using the _ yellow _ grism , which provides an almost complete spectral coverage from 4650 to 7900   , with only a small gap of about 40    near 6200   , due to the non - sensitive region between the two @xmath9  thinned , back illuminated eev ccd s located on the focal plane of the spectrograph .",
    "minimum interorder separation is about 7  arcsec .",
    "to reduce read out noise and read out time , the ccd s were binned @xmath10 . with this choice ,",
    "2-pixel resolution is 36,000 , a bit less than the fwhm of the spectral lines , so that the spectra are slightly undersampled .",
    "the spectra have a rather high background level , due to parasite light in the spectrograph not yet eliminated when they were acquired , which is well removed by the spectrum extraction procedure .",
    "the high background level has small impact on the spectra of these rather bright stars and the final @xmath11  is that expected from photon noise .",
    "spectral extraction was done using standard iraf routines for echelle spectra .",
    "first , the two ccd s were separated and reduced independently .",
    "the two dimensional images were bias subtracted ( but not flat - fielded ; the flats were extracted and used to check the quality of correction done for the blaze function , with the isa package , gratton 1988 ) , then cleaned from cosmic rays hits and hot pixels using @xmath12 .",
    "images were corrected for scattered light ; the orders were then found ( 21 in the red ccd , and 34 in the blue one ) , traced , and extracted , subtracting the local sky background .",
    "wavelength calibration was performed using thorium lamp exposures taken once each night ( the spectrograph is very stable , and furthermore precise radial velocities were not our goal ) , yielding a @xmath13 of about 0.009    in our wavelengths .",
    "in our analysis , we used both equivalent widths and spectral synthesis .",
    "equivalent widths were used to derive the best set of atmospheric parameters ( effective temperature from line excitation , gravity from the equilibrium of ionization , microturbulence from trends with expected line strength : see table  [ t:2 ] ) and elemental abundances .",
    "comparisons with synthetic spectra were then used to check the adopted abundances .",
    "equivalent widths ( see table  [ t : ew ] ) were measured on the unidimensional , extracted spectral orders using an automatic routine within the isa package , prepared by one of us ( r.g.g . ) .",
    "only the spectral region 5500 - 7200    was eventually used in the abundance analysis : continuum tracing is quite uncertain at shorter wavelengths at the resolution of our spectra , and diffraction fringes ( not completely removed by our reduction procedure ) make results from longer wavelengths uncertain .",
    "the routine measuring equivalent widths works as follows .",
    "first , removal of the blaze function response is performed using a spline interpolating function .",
    "then , a local continuum level is determined for each line by an iterative clipping average over a fraction ( the highest ones ) of the 200 spectral points centered on the line to be measured ; after various tests , this fraction was set at 1/4th for the spectra of ngc 6819 .",
    "second , the equivalent width for each line from an extensive list ( including several hundred lines , that are quite clean in the solar spectrum ) is tentatively measured using a gaussian fitting routine .",
    "measures are rejected according to several criteria ( e.g. if the central wavelength does not agree with that expected from preliminary measure of the geocentric radial velocity ; if the lines are too broad or too narrow , etc . ) .",
    "third , the measured lines are used to draw a relationship between equivalent width and fwhm .",
    "fourth , this relation is used to measure again equivalent widths using a second gaussian fitting routine , which has only one free parameter ( the equivalent width ) , since the central wavelength is fixed by the measured geocentric radial velocity , and the fwhm by the relationship between equivalent width and fwhm .",
    "again measures are rejected if residuals are too large , asymmetric , etc .",
    "these procedures allow one to obtain very stable measures of the ews , with small random errors even when lines are in quite crowded spectral regions .",
    "however , systematic errors may be present , related to the adopted reference continua .",
    "comparisons with synthetic spectra convinced us that systematic errors in the finally adopted ews are quite small , insofar as a suitable fraction of the points is used to determine the reference continuum level and rejection criteria on the used lines are kept strict .    since the stars have similar atmospheric parameters , we may estimate ( internal ) errors in our equivalent widths by comparing values measured in different stars .",
    "such a comparison is shown in figure  [ f : fig2 ] .",
    "taking as reference star 978 ( which is the brightest , and has the best spectrum ) , the @xmath14 scatter about the linear relationship are 10.9 and 10.5 m  for stars 333 and 979 respectively . assuming that both sets of ews have equal errors , we can estimate typical errors of 7.5  m  in our measured ews .",
    "equivalent widths and kurucz model atmospheres ( cd - rom 13 : models with the overshooting option switched off ) were used to derive the best set of atmospheric parameters listed in table  [ t:2 ] .",
    "effective temperatures were derived directly from the spectra , imposing fe i lines of different excitation ( several tens for each star ) to provide the same temperatures .",
    "panel ( a ) of figure  [ f : fig3 ] shows the run of abundances from fe i lines with excitation potential for star 978 : there is no discernible trend .",
    "internal error estimates in temperatures are obtained directly from the errors in the linear regression fits , and are @xmath1568 k , corresponding to 1@xmath16 @xmath14 uncertainty of 0.015 dex / ev in the slope .",
    "systematic errors might be larger and mainly ascribed to the set of adopted model atmospheres ( kurucz 1995 ) .",
    "in addition , a number of fe ii lines were measured in each star , allowing to estimate surface gravities @xmath17  from the equilibrium of ionization of fe , which is very well derived from our fe lines .",
    "internal errors include contribution from both the above uncertainties in the adopted temperature and the errors in ews of individual lines : the quadratic sums provide an internal error of @xmath18 dex in @xmath17 .",
    "our use of the lte approximation in the analysis is not of concern for these stars ( see gratton et al .",
    "1999 ) ; however , systematic errors can be present , mainly related again to the adopted model atmospheres .",
    "the following exercise shows that the assumed temperature scale leads to a reasonable internal consistency of data .",
    "the ( average ) absolute magnitude of the program stars is @xmath19 , according to their apparent magnitude and to the distance modulus of @xmath20 by rosvick & vandenberg ( 1998 ) , and in agreement with the average value for clump stars measured by hipparcos .",
    "the bolometric correction appropriate for the temperature , gravity and metal abundances of the program stars , derived from the kurucz cd - rom s is @xmath21  mag .",
    "this leads to an assumed luminosity of the program stars of @xmath22 , and , assuming a mass of 1.51.6  @xmath23  ( appropriate for a clump star in a 2.5  gyr old cluster : see rosvick & vandenberg 1998 ) , we obtain an expected gravity for the program stars of @xmath24 , in reasonable agreement with the observed value . note that , instead , if we decrease @xmath25  by 100  k , we obtain a good ionization equilibrium for a gravity of @xmath26 , that implies an absolute magnitude of @xmath27 : too bright in our opinion for clump stars in an old open cluster .",
    "this exercise thus suggests that the adopted temperature scale might be overestimated but only slightly ( by @xmath28  k ) ; such a small error would cause our [ fe / h ] value to be overestimated by only 0.03  dex .",
    "hereinafter , we will assume that systematic errors are not larger than the internal errors of @xmath29  k.    microturbulent velocities @xmath30  were obtained by compensating any trend in the derived abundances from fe  i lines with the expected line strength ( see magain 1984 ) .",
    "results for star 978 are graphically shown in panel ( b ) of figure  [ f : fig3 ] .",
    "due to the large number of measured fe i lines and to the high quality of measurements , internal error bars in the derived values of @xmath30 are almost negligible ( @xmath31 km / s , average from the 3 stars ) .",
    "table  [ t : abu ] lists the abundances obtained for the individual stars , as well as the average values for the cluster .",
    "sensitivities of these abundances to changes in the atmospheric parameters are listed in table  [ t:3 ] and were used to estimate the internal errors in our abundances .",
    "these errors are given in the last column of table  [ t : abu ] and were obtained by summing quadratically the contribution due to each atmospheric parameter ( assuming uncertainties of 70  k in @xmath25 , 0.19  dex in @xmath17 , @xmath32  dex in [ a / h ] , and @xmath33  km / s in @xmath30 : last column of table  [ t:3 ] ) , and that due to the line - to - line scatter ( we assumed 0.15  dex ) ; the value was then divided by the square root of the number of stars used to estimate abundances .",
    "the average fe abundance for ngc  6819 is [ fe / h]=@xmath1 , the three stars yielding very similar results .",
    "element - to - element abundance ratios are generally close to solar ( within twice the internal error ; note that abundances for v , mn , and co include corrections for the quite large hyperfine structure of their lines ) .",
    "there are two exceptions :    * we get a slight overabundance of si ( on average , [ si / fe]=@xmath34 ) . this result is obtained from a rather large number of lines and seems reasonably sound ; * we find a quite large na excess ( on average , [ na / fe]=@xmath35 ) .",
    "this value includes a small non - lte correction ( @xmath36  dex ) , computed according to gratton et al .",
    "( 1999 ) . a partial confirmation of the results of the equivalent width based abundance analysis comes from comparisons of the observed spectra with synthetic spectra .",
    "an example of such a comparison is shown in figure  [ f : na ] , where the spectral region 6150 - 6166    is presented , compared with results of spectral synthesis computations .",
    "note the good match of the fe i lines . na and",
    "si lines are clearly stronger than predicted for a solar - scaled composition , indicating an overabundance with respect to fe . however , the excess we would derive from this figure is about [ na / fe]@xmath37 , a bit lower than that given by the equivalent widths .",
    "similar excesses of na have been found for population i supergiants ( see e.g. sasselov 1986 ) ; however the clump stars in ngc  6819 are much less massive than those considered by sasselov .",
    "we can use our temperatures , derived from line excitation ( and hence a reddening free parameter ) to derive the interstellar reddening toward ngc  6819 .",
    "this can be done by comparing the observed @xmath38  colours with those predicted by models ( kurucz 1995 ) .",
    "there might be some systematic errors in such reddening derivations , since they would depend on the accuracy of the colours computed by model atmospheres , and on possible errors on the @xmath39 s .",
    "however , this zero - point offset ( itself a function of temperature ) may be determined by observation of a comparison sample of nearby , unreddened clump stars , analyzed following strictly the same procedure described here .",
    "we did this for a sample of 12 bright clump stars with accurate parallaxes from hipparcos ( cohen et al .",
    "2000 , in preparation ) .",
    "this comparison sample overlaps in temperature and metal abundance the stars of ngc  6819 , so that no extrapolation was required . using this procedure",
    ", we derive an average reddening for our three clump stars of @xmath40  ( 3 stars , r.m.s.=0.076 mag ) .",
    "this value agrees very well with that obtained recently by rosvick & vandenberg ( @xmath41 ) in their accurate study based on good quality ccd photometry .",
    "previous determinations where contadictory , ranging e.g. from @xmath42 ( burkhead 1971 ) to @xmath43 ( auner 1974 ) , and were based on more uncertain photographic photometry .",
    "our determination of the metallicity for ngc  6819 ( [ fe / h]=@xmath1 ) is only slightly higher than the value obtained by rosvick & vandenberg ( 1998 ) from an analysis of the color  magnitude diagram ( [ fe / h]=@xmath44 ) , and seems to agree very well with the value given by twarog , ashman & anthony - twarog ( 1997 : [ fe / h]=@xmath45 ) , and based on a revision of the low dispersion spectroscopic data by friel & janes ( 1993 ) . in fact the latter agreement is based on a value for the reddening ( @xmath46 ) much higher than ours , derived from quite old data and explicitly admitted to be highly uncertain .",
    "had they adopted a lower value for the reddening , their metallicity would have also been lower ( [ fe / h ] @xmath3 0.05 or 0.10 , see rosvisk & vandenberg 1998 ) , but the discrepancy is fairly modest .",
    "our values for the metallicity and reddening of ngc6819 are close enough to the values presented by rosvick & vandenberg that no new analysis of distance modulus and age for this cluster seems required .",
    "we must recall , however , that the age and distances derived from isochrone fitting to the cluster color - magnitude diagram are highly sensitive to the adopted stellar models . finally , we point out that our reddening and metallicity perfectly agree with those recently adopted by sarajedini ( 1999 ) in his discussion of the dependence of the luminosity of the clump on age and metallicity .",
    "ngc6819 hence appears to be a cluster with galactocentric distance ( 89 kpc ) similar to that of the sun , metallicity moderately higher and age slightly younger .",
    "these features make it consistent with standard age - metallicity relations and abundance gradients .",
    "auner , g. 1974 , , 13 , 143 bragaglia , a. , tosi , m. , marconi , g. , & carretta , e. 2000 , in _ the evolution of the milky way .",
    "stars vs clusters _ ,",
    "f.giovannelii , f.matteucci eds ( kluwer , dordrecht ) , in press ( astro - ph/9912130 ) burkhead , m.s .",
    "1971 , , 76 , 251 friel , e.d . 1995 , , 33 , 38 friel , e.d . , & janes , k.a .",
    "1993 , , 267 , 75 gratton , r.g .",
    "1988 , rome obs .",
    "preprint ser .",
    "29 gratton , r.g .",
    ", carretta , e. , gustafsson , b. , & eriksson , k. 1999 , , 350 , 955 kurucz , r.l .",
    "1995 , cd - rom 13 luhman , k.l . ,",
    "rieke , g.h .",
    ", young , e.t . ,",
    "cotera , a.s . , chen , h. , rieke , m.j . ,",
    "schneider , g. , & thompson , r.i .",
    "2000 , , in press ( astro - ph/0004386 ) magain , p. 1984",
    ", , 134 , 189 mayor , m. 1976 , , 48 , 301 mermilliod , j.c . 1995 , d. egret , m.a .",
    "albrecht eds , information and on - line data in astronomy , kluwer academic press ( dordrecht ) , p. 127",
    "panagia , n. , & tosi , m. 1981 , , 96 , 306 rosvick , j.m . , & vandenberg , d.a .",
    "1998 , , 115 , 1516 sanders , w.l . 1972 , , 19 , 155 sandrelli , s. , bragaglia , a. , tosi , m. , & marconi , g. 1999 , , 309 , 739 sarajedini , a. 1999 , , 118 , 2321 sasselov , d.d .",
    "1986 , pasp , 98 , 561 twarog , b.a . ,",
    "ashman , k. , & anthony - twarog , b. 1997 , , 114 , 2556"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an analysis of high dispersion spectra ( @xmath0 ) of three red clump stars in the old open cluster ngc 6819 . </S>",
    "<S> the spectra were obtained with sarg , the high dispersion spectrograph of the telescopio nazionale galileo . </S>",
    "<S> the spectra were analyzed using both equivalent widths measured with an automatic procedure , and comparisons with synthetic spectra . </S>",
    "<S> ngc 6819 is found to be slightly metal - rich ( [ fe / h]=@xmath1 , internal error ) ; there are no previous high resolution studies to compare with . </S>",
    "<S> most element - to - element abundance ratios are close to solar ; we find a slight excess of si , and a significant na overabundance . </S>",
    "<S> our spectra can also be used to derive the interstellar reddening towards the cluster , by comparing the observed colours with those expected from line excitation : we derive @xmath2 , in agreement with the most recent estimate for this cluster . </S>"
  ]
}