{
  "article_text": [
    "the line at 511 kev from the annihilation of electrons and positrons in the region of the galactic center ( gc ) is the best - studied line in @xmath0-ray astronomy . over 20 years of observations ( reviewed by tueller 1993 )",
    "have established that there is an extensive diffuse line source of total intensity @xmath1 photon @xmath2 s@xmath3 .",
    "this source has recently been mapped in considerable detail by osse on board the _ compton observatory _ ( purcell et al .",
    "1997 ) , which has revealed a third spatial component in addition to the well - known galactic disk and bulge components .",
    "this new component is extended and is centered at @xmath4 , @xmath5 , well above the galactic plane .",
    "it is unclear whether there are any point sources superimposed on this diffuse distribution ; recent results do not show any variability in the flux .",
    "the line is known to be narrow and centered at 511 kev ( leventhal , maccallum , & stang 1978 ) .",
    "the annihilation spectrum also includes a lower - energy continuum arising from @xmath6 annihilation via the formation of positronium ( ps ) .    in principle ,",
    "spectral lines contain much information about the physical conditions in the line formation region .",
    "the next step in the study of the 511 kev line will be to extract the information contained in the line profile and in the ratio of line to ps continuum amplitudes .",
    "the key requirement is for sensitive long - term measurements with fine spectral resolution .",
    "the measurements described above were mostly made with low - resolution scintillator detectors . in this paper , we describe observations made over more than 2 years with the high - resolution ge spectrometer tgrs on board the _ wind _ spacecraft .",
    "the transient gamma - ray spectrometer ( tgrs ) is mounted on the top ( + @xmath7 ) surface of the _ wind _ spacecraft . since launch in 1994 november _",
    "wind _ has been in a complicated extremely elliptical earth orbit , which has avoided background @xmath0-radiation due to factors such as earth albedo and particle irradiation in the radiation belts . throughout this time",
    "the top surface has pointed towards the south ecliptic pole , and the spacecraft has rotated with a period of 3 s.    the tgrs detector itself is a radiatively cooled 35 @xmath8 ge crystal sensitive to energies between 20 kev8 mev .",
    "the instrument gain has varied slightly ( by @xmath9% ) during the mission ; this variation has been monitored and corrected for .",
    "there has been some loss of resolution during the mission caused by radiation damage due to cosmic - ray impacts on the detector .",
    "the detector is unshielded , and therefore monitors the whole + @xmath7 hemisphere for @xmath0-ray bursts in the above energy range ( palmer et al .",
    ". however , the results in this paper are obtained from a different data set .",
    "the rotation of the spacecraft offers the opportunity of modulating the signal from a constant source , which has been realized by adding a narrow 1-cm thick lead occulter to the instrument .",
    "this occulter is concentric with the detector and subtends @xmath10 as seen from it .",
    "it is almost in the rotation plane ) the detector , by about 5.5@xmath11 , so that instead of tracking the ecliptic plane , it is offset 5.5@xmath11 south of it .",
    "it therefore occults the galactic center .",
    "the breadth of the occulter is @xmath12 fwhm as seen from the detector . ] .",
    "the spatial arrangement and sky coverage of the occulter are illustrated by teegarden et al .",
    "( 1996 ) .",
    "the occulted data are transmitted from the spacecraft for energies 20 kev1 mev in four broad energy windows , each binned into 64 channels .",
    "only one window is binned at the best possible resolution for a ge detector ( @xmath13 kev per channel ) ; this window is centered on 511 kev and provides fine detail over the region 479543 kev .",
    "the data in all windows are further binned into 128 angular channels (  sectors \" of @xmath14 in ecliptic longitude ) .",
    "the effect of modulation by the occulter on the count rate in the high - resolution window during a 2 year period is shown in fig .",
    "1 . the two cosmic sources which are clearly occulted , at ecliptic longitudes @xmath15 and @xmath16 , are the crab and the gc respectively . note that the precise shapes of the occultation ingress and egress contain information about the extension of the sources along the ecliptic plane ; for example in fig .",
    "1 the gc source is not well described by the detector s response to an occulted point source , but seems to be extended , as discussed below .",
    "the amplitude of the occultation dip in fig 1 . is a direct measure of the intensity of the source .",
    "when it is measured for each energy channel a spectrum of the gc is obtained ( fig .",
    "2 ) . as implied by fig .",
    "1 , these amplitudes are obtained by fitting the occulted count rate with a model of the detector s response to a diffuse source .",
    "we took into account the systematic error due to the uncertainty in the gc source distribution , which is visible in fig . 1 as the difference in the amplitude which would be derived from the two responses ,",
    "one of which is spatially extended .",
    "slight modifications ( described below in each case ) were made in the analyses by which the basic data in figs . 1 and 2 were obtained in order to derive the annihilation - related physical quantities .",
    "these are the intensity , width and energy of the narrow 511 kev line , the intensity of the ps continuum ( visible as a step at 511 kev in fig .",
    "2 ) , the position of the line source , and its spatial extent .    _ ( 1 ) line intensity . _",
    "although the spectrum around 511 kev is dominated by the annihilation line ( fig .",
    "2 ) , its intensity will be systematically overestimated if the underlying continuum is neglected .",
    "we therefore fitted this region of the spectrum by a model containing three components , the line itself ( a gaussian with three free parameters , intensity , width , and centroid ) , the ps continuum , and an underlying power law .",
    "the fit was performed by folding the models through the instrument response function and varying the parameters of the components until the best agreement was obtained with the count spectrum ( as determined by the minimum of @xmath17 ) .",
    "the uncertainty in each parameter was obtained from the region over which @xmath17 exceeded this minimum value by 1 , after re - minimizing with all other parameters allowed to vary ( lampton , margon & bowyer 1976 , avni 1976 ) . to monitor the _ variability _ of the line , the period january 1 1995march 13 1997 was divided into nine 90 d intervals for which spectra were extracted and fitted in the same way .",
    "effects of nonlinearity when these fits are combined were regarded as a systematic error in the overall intensity .",
    "_ ( 2 ) line width . _ a direct measurement of the line width from the spectrum of fig .",
    "2 would not take into account the long - term deterioration of instrument resolution .",
    "we therefore measured the line widths from the 90 d spectra described above .",
    "these measured total widths @xmath18 are resultants of the cosmic line widths @xmath19 and the instrumental width @xmath20 added in quadrature , @xmath21 . to establish @xmath20 , we used two strong lines on either side of 511 kev which arise in the detector and appear in tgrs background spectra .",
    "these lines , from @xmath22zn ( 439 kev ) and @xmath22ge ( 584 kev ) , are routinely monitored to determine instrument gain shifts .",
    "their intrinsic widths are very narrow so that their measured widths reflect @xmath20 at the appropriate energies .",
    "we measured these widths at 90 d intervals and interpolated to determine @xmath20 at the position of the 511 kev line .",
    "the nonlinear relation between @xmath19 and @xmath18 introduces a correlation between @xmath19 and the error obtained by differentiating that relation .",
    "wheaton et al .",
    "( 1995 ) showed that when an average is taken with weights derived from the errors , such a correlation may cause a systematic error in the final value , in the sense that @xmath19 would tend to be overestimated .",
    "we avoided this problem by combining the individual 90d @xmath19 values unweighted , which gives a smaller average .",
    "the difference between weighted and unweighted results is regarded as a possible systematic error .    _",
    "( 3 ) line energy .",
    "_ gain correction of the tgrs instrument is performed by measuring the energy channels corresponding to lines in the background spectrum at known energies .",
    "below 1 mev the channel shifts are almost , but not exactly , proportional to the line energy .",
    "there is enough scatter about this linear relationship that using the average gain shift per kev from several lines would introduce a small systematic error ( @xmath23 kev at energy 511 kev ) .    in the present case we consider only energies which are close to 511 kev ,",
    "near which there is a strong background line due to positron annihilation in the detector .",
    "if we assume that , over our small energy range , the gain shift per kev is constant , and that the physical energy of the background line is exactly 511.00 kev , we can avoid the systematic error by using this line alone for gain correction .",
    "we therefore measured the background line energy , corrected it to 511.00 kev , and measured the cosmic line energy relative to it .",
    "there is a small systematic error in the measurement of the background line energy ( the statistical error is negligible ) due to small deviations of the line shape from gaussian and to uncertainties in the continuum , whose effects were estimated by altering these parameters in our fitting of both cosmic and background spectra .    _ ( 4 ) positronium continuum .",
    "_ only a small part of the full continuum is visible in fig . 2 .",
    "to improve the statistics of our fit , we obtained and fitted spectra , by the same method as illustrated in figs . 1 and 2 , for energies down to 400 kev where the continuum is dominated by ps , and also up to 1 mev to include the underlying galactic continuum .",
    "we checked for systematic errors in this fit due to the shape of the underlying galactic continuum , by repeating it using thermal bremsstrahlung , inverse compton and synchrotron spectra instead of a power law .",
    "no significant change in either @xmath17 or the fit parameters was found .    _",
    "( 5 ) source position and extension _ it is by no means obvious that the three spectral components in fig . 2 all share the same spatial distribution . rather than fit the occultation response function to data in which all three are combined , as in fig . 1",
    ", we attempted to isolate the narrow 511 kev line before fitting .",
    "this was done by accumulating the occulted data over a very narrow window 506516 kev which is dominated by the line .",
    "the detector occultation response was fitted to these data assuming a prescribed source distribution , i.e. a gaussian of variable width along the ecliptic plane .",
    "extensive analyses of the response are necessary before the next step can be taken , in which actual properties of the source distribution are deduced .",
    "these analyses are in progress ; here we present preliminary results obtained using the gaussian hypothesis .",
    "we therefore make no estimate of systematic errors due to the unknown source distribution . using data such as those of fig .",
    "1 we can however estimate errors due to contamination by the other spectral components .",
    "the results of our measurements of the annihilation spectrum are given in table 1 .",
    "these results supersede the preliminary measurement made by teegarden et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , which reported a 511 kev line flux @xmath24 photon @xmath2 s@xmath3 .",
    "two features of the earlier analysis contributed to this overestimate .",
    "first , the line flux was obtained from the count rate in the narrow 506516 kev band , without fitting the shape of the spectrum , and is thus overestimated by including the other spectrum components ( fig .",
    "second , the present analysis uses an improved model of the instrument spectral response , instead of simply dividing by photopeak effective area as was done in the earlier work .",
    "we calculated the flux , dimension and centroid of the osse model of the gc 511 kev emission ( purcell et al .",
    "1997 ) as folded through the tgrs occulted response ( table 1 ) . since the occulter passes close to the centers of two of the three spatial components of the model ( exactly crossing the gc , and @xmath25 from the high - latitude feature ) a test of these model features becomes possible in principle .",
    "the measurements of the flux and centroid are in good agreement ; the offset of the tgrs centroid measurement from the gc is in the same direction as the offset of the osse centroid due to the new high - latitude feature , but is also compatible with the gc .",
    "the spatial extension found by tgrs slightly exceeds that found by osse , but to draw any conclusion from this would be premature since improved modeling of the occultation response is required .",
    "our results agree with osse in finding a lack of variability on 90 d time - scales ( fig .",
    "our measurements of the total line width @xmath18 , and of the background line widths , are shown in fig .",
    "4 . the interpolated instrument intrinsic width @xmath20 is also shown .",
    "it is clear that @xmath18 at all times exceeds @xmath20 ; this is necessary if the cosmic line width is to be obtained from @xmath21 .",
    "the result ( table 1 ) is somewhat narrower than the average of four balloon measurements by the gris ge detector ( leventhal et al .",
    "1993 ) , but the difference is not very significant .",
    "the line width reflects the convolved widths of components due to different annihilation mechanisms predominating in different phases of the ism .",
    "these mechanisms were treated by guessoum , ramaty & lingenfelter ( 1991 ) .",
    "they may be divided into two classes .",
    "firstly , annihilation by charge - exchange in flight produces a broad line ( fwhm 6.4 kev ) , and is predominant in cold molecular clouds .",
    "the second class contains all other processes , which produce lines narrower than the instrument resolution . we can therefore hope to test two alternative suggestions by guessoum et al .",
    " annihilation occurring uniformly in all phases of the ism , and otherwise - uniform annihilation excluding cold clouds .",
    "we therefore repeated our analysis under the assumption that the width @xmath19 had two components , a broad component of width 6.4 kev , and a narrow unresolved component . instead of line width",
    ", we now have the amplitude of the 6.4-kev broad component as a fitted parameter .",
    "the spectra were fitted equally well by this model ; though there were no significant improvements in the @xmath26 values , we hope this procedure yields physical insight into the meaning of @xmath19 .",
    "assuming the presence of a 6.4-kev broad line component , we found that @xmath27%@xmath28% of the total line intensity was due to this broad line .",
    "this is much closer to the prediction when positrons are excluded from molecular cloud cores ( in which case the broad line contributes only 11% : guessoum et al .",
    "1991 ) than to the maximum predicted broad - line contribution of 59% when positrons penetrate all phases of the ism equally .",
    "the fraction @xmath29 of positrons which annihilate through the formation of ps can be written @xmath30 $ ] , where @xmath31 and @xmath32 are the line and ps continuum intensities ( brown & leventhal 1989 ) ; our result from table 1 is @xmath33 . and",
    "@xmath32 in table 1 which are positively correlated . ]",
    "this is in good agreement with the most recent osse result @xmath34 ( kinzer et al .",
    "however , predicted values from annihilation in most of the phases of the ism cluster in the range @xmath351.0 , so small discrepancies in measured @xmath29 may be important .",
    "our result falls roughly in the middle of this range , and is consistent with annihilation in cold molecular clouds ( @xmath36 : brown , leventhal & mills 1986 ) , the warm neutral or ionized ism ( @xmath360.95 : bussard , ramaty & drachman 1979 ) , or any combination of these ( guessoum et al . 1991 ) .",
    "it is not compatible with annihilation in the hot phase , nor with any scenario in which grains are important sites of annihilation .",
    "these two statements are in fact equivalent , since in the hot phase grains become the most important location for annihilation in the absence of h atoms .",
    "the corresponding value of @xmath29 is expected to be very low ( @xmath37 : guessoum et al .",
    "1991 ) .",
    "we have measured the 511 kev line from the gc and also the ps continuum associated with it during 19951997 .",
    "our values for the intensities of these features agree with the most recent osse measurements .",
    "our preliminary results for the spatial distribution of the line are consistent with the osse mapping , but require further analysis of the instrument response",
    ". the 511 kev line is resolved , and , if a specific model for its width is assumed ( an underlying broad component from annihilation through charge - exchange in flight ) , then our result favors a scenario in which annihilation in cold molecular clouds is suppressed .",
    "our measurement of the ps fraction @xmath29 from the ps continuum is consistent with this , and suggests further that annihilation in the hot phase of the ism is of minor importance .",
    "avni , y. 1976 , apj , 210 , 642 bartlett , l. m. 1994 , phd dissertation , univ . of maryland brown , b. l. , & leventhal , m. 1987 , apj , 319 , 637 brown , b. l. , leventhal , m. , & mills , a. p. , jr . , 1986 ,",
    "rev . a , 33 , 2281 bussard , r. w. , ramaty , r. , & drachman , r. j. 1979 , apj , 228 , 928 guessoum , n. , ramaty , r. , & lingenfelter , r. e. 1991 , apj , 378 , 170 kinzer , r. l. , purcell , w. r. , johnson , w. n. , kurfess , j. d. , jung , g. v. , & skibo , j. g. a&as , 120 , 317 lampton , m. , margon , b. , & bowyer , s. apj , 208 , 177 leventhal , m. , maccallum , c. j. , & stang , f. r. 1978 , apj , 225 , l11 leventhal , m. , barthelmy , s. d. , gehrels , n. , teegarden , b. j. , tueller , j. , & bartlett , l. m. 1993 , apj , 405 , l25 mahoney , w. a. , ling , j. c. , & wheaton , w. a. apjs , 92 , 387 palmer , d. m. , et al .",
    "1996 , in gamma ray bursts ( 3rd huntsville symposium ) , ed . c. kouveliotou , m. f. briggs , & g. j. fishman ( new york : aip ) , 218 purcell , w. r. , et al .",
    "1997 , apj , 491 , 725 ramaty , r. , leventhal , m. , chan , k. w. , & lingenfelter , r. e. 1992 , apj , 392 , l63 seifert , h. , naya , j. e. , sturner , s. j. , & teegarden , b. j. 1997 , in proc .",
    "fourth compton symposium , ed . c. d. dermer ,",
    "m. s. strickman , & j. d. kurfess , aip conf .",
    "410 ( aip : new york ) , 1567 teegarden , b. j. , et al .",
    "1996 , apj , 463 , l75 tueller , j. 1993 , in compton gamma - ray observatory , ed .",
    "m. w. friedlander , n. gehrels , & d. j. macomb ( new york : aip ) , 97 wheaton , w. a. , et al .",
    "1995 , apj , 438 , 322    lccl quantity & measured value   & previous values & units + 511 kev line amplitude & @xmath38 & @xmath39 & photon @xmath2 s@xmath3 + line width ( fwhm ) & @xmath40 & @xmath41   & kev + line energy   & @xmath42 & @xmath43   & kev + ps continuum amplitude & @xmath44 &  & photon @xmath2 s@xmath3 + source dimension ( fwhm ) & @xmath45 & @xmath46   &  + source centroid   & @xmath47 & @xmath48   & ecliptic longitude @xmath49   +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have obtained spectra of the galactic center at energies 400600 kev from high - resolution data acquired by the tgrs ge spectrometer on board the _ wind _ mission during 19951997 . </S>",
    "<S> the data were obtained using an on - board occulter , and are relatively free from systematics and backgrounds . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of the spectra reveals a well - resolved electron - positron annihilation line at 511 kev and the associated continuum due to annihilation via positronium formation . </S>",
    "<S> measurements of the line width and the continuum - to - line ratio allow some constraints to be placed on the interstellar sites where annihilation occurs . </S>"
  ]
}