{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding the formation and evolution of early - type galaxies is a key issue when addressing the mass assembly and star formation history of the galaxy population as a whole and the formation of structure in the universe , as 50% or more of all stars in the present day universe are in early - type galaxies and bulges ( see , e.g. , bell et al .",
    "2003 ) .    in hierarchical galaxy formation theories ( e.g. , cole et al .",
    "2000 ) , massive galaxies assemble late , such that strong evolution of the mass density from @xmath8 to the present day is expected ( see , e.g. , kauffmann & charlot 1998 ) . measuring the mass density requires a measurement of the luminosity density , and an accurate determination of the @xmath2 .",
    "@xmath2 can be estimated from models ( see , e.g. , bell et al .",
    "2004 ) , but these estimates are uncertain due to the age / metallicity degeneracy and the unknown imf of the stellar populations of the galaxies ( bruzual & charlot 2003 ) .    the fundamental plane ( djorgovski & davis 1987 ; dressler et al .",
    "1987 ) provides a tool to measure the evolution of @xmath2 without model uncertainties .",
    "the @xmath2 offset of high redshift galaxies from the local fp can be used to calibrate high redshift galaxy masses and to estimate the age of their stellar populations ( franx 1993 ) .",
    "this technique has been used successfully to measure the luminosity weighted ages of massive cluster galaxies , which have formed most of their stars at redshifts @xmath9 ( see , e.g. , van dokkum & franx 1996 ; van dokkum & stanford 2003 , holden et al .",
    "2005 ) . however , it is not clear whether galaxies in the general field evolve in the same way .",
    "in fact , in the hierarchical picture the formation redshift of galaxies with a given mass depends on environment ( diaferio et al .",
    "this would lead to substantial age differences between field and cluster galaxies at any redshift ( van dokkum et al .",
    "since this is a generic property of all hierarchical formation models , measuring this difference is a critical test for those theories .",
    "various authors have measured the @xmath2 evolution of field early- type galaxies through deep spectroscopy of magnitude limited samples .",
    "the results are much less conclusive than the results from cluster studies and the comparison between field and cluster has proved to be very hard .",
    "some authors claim much faster evolution for field galaxies than for cluster galaxies ( treu et al .",
    "2002 ; gebhardt et al .",
    "2003 ) , but others find that field and cluster galaxies evolve at comparable rates ( van dokkum et al .",
    "2001 , van dokkum & ellis 2003 , van der wel et al . 2005 ) .",
    "studies involving lensing galaxies ( kochanek et al .",
    "2000 , rusin et al .",
    "2003 , van de ven et al .",
    "2003 ) , indicate the presence of a mix of fast and slowly evolving galaxies .",
    "it is unclear whether the differences between the various results are caused by selection effects , measurement errors due to low signal - to - noise spectra , low number statistics , or contamination by late - type galaxies .",
    "this paper describes a study of early - type galaxies at @xmath10 using much higher quality data than in previous studies . the substantially large number of objects with very high signal - to - noise spectra enables us to accurately measure the @xmath2 evolution of the field early - type galaxy population , to compare the cluster and field populations , to study correlations between @xmath2 , @xmath11 , and rest - frame color , and to describe the possible effects of biases . also , we carefully compare the samples and results from previous studies and this study in order to verify previous claims about the evolution of field galaxies , and to see whether previous results are in fact consistent with each other and these new results .    in section 2",
    "we describe the sample selection , the spectroscopic observations and data reduction , and the measurement of velocity dispersions .",
    "section 3 describes the measurement of the structural parameters , colors , morphologies , and the available x - ray data . in section 4",
    "we present the results throughout this paper we use vega magnitudes , and assume @xmath12 , with a hubble constant of @xmath13  km  s@xmath14  mpc@xmath14 .",
    "we selected galaxies in the chandra deep field - south ( cdfs ) and the rdcs1252.9 - 2927 cluster field ( cl1252 , rosati et al .",
    "2004 ) , which both have deep optical imaging from the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) on the hst .",
    "goods provides publicly available imaging in four filters ( giavalisco et al . 2004 ) : f475w , f606w , f775w , and f850lp ( hereafter @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , and @xmath18 ) . as these data were not yet available when we started this project , we used ground - based combo-17 photometry ( wolf et al .",
    "2004 ) to select our sample for the first observing run . for subsequent runs version 0.5 of the acs goods data were available , and for the last run we used the version 1.0 data release .",
    "( blakeslee et al . 2003 ) provide acs imaging on the cl1252 field in the @xmath17 and @xmath18 bands .    in order to construct a sample of early - type galaxies at @xmath10 in the cdfs , we selected objects with @xmath19 and combo-17 photometric redshifts in the range @xmath20 .",
    "( we use @xmath18 when we mean redshift , and @xmath21 if we mean @xmath18-band magnitude , but when indicating a color we omit the @xmath22 subscript for clearity . )",
    "this color cut selects galaxies redder than a local sbc galaxy at @xmath8 .",
    "therefore , this study only includes galaxies that are on the red sequence at @xmath10 .",
    "we morphologically classified all galaxies satisfying these criteria and brighter than @xmath23 , distinguishing between early- and late - type galaxies using the acs imaging .",
    "the classification was based on compactness , regularity and the presence of spiral arms .",
    "26 out of the 52 galaxies satisfying our selection criteria we classified as early - type galaxies .",
    "we designed multi - slit masks for three different pointings , selected by the number of primary targets that could be included .",
    "open spaces in the masks were filled with early - type galaxies satisfying the color and redshift criteria but fainter than @xmath23 , early - type galaxies with lower photometric redshifts and late - type galaxies with @xmath24 and redshifts @xmath20 .",
    "switching from using ground - based @xmath25 colors from combo-17 to acs @xmath25 colors from goods did not lead to large differences between the selected samples , although several objects changed priority .",
    "the same selection criteria were used for the cl1252 field .",
    "however , the mask design for the cl1252 field was geometrically constrained because the primary targets were cluster galaxies at @xmath26 .",
    "the two brightest galaxies in the cluster are the two central galaxies , which had to be included in a single slit because of their small angular separation of @xmath27 .",
    "therefore , not only the positions , but also the position angles of the designed masks were fixed .",
    "unfortunately , only two galaxies brighter than @xmath23 , redder than @xmath28 and early - type morphologies could be included , additionally to the cluster galaxies .",
    "similarly to the cdfs masks , fillers were included .",
    "we carried out the observations with fors2 in mxu mode on eso s kueyen , one of the vlt unit telescopes .",
    "we used the 600z grism together with the og590 order separation filter to obtain a sufficiently high spectral resolution ( @xmath29  km  s@xmath14 ) and to cover the wavelength range around the balmer/4000  break for galaxies at @xmath10 .",
    "the observations were carried out in series of four dithered exposures with spatial offsets of @xmath27 or @xmath30 and equal exposure times ranging from 14 to 30 minutes each .    in total ,",
    "51 hours of scientifically useful integration time was acquired , of which 38 hours had seeing better than @xmath31 .",
    "the cumulative integration time for the three pointings in the cdfs is 27 hours , with a median seeing of @xmath32 .",
    "the single pointing in the cl1252 field has an integration time of 24 hours , with a median seeing of @xmath33 .",
    "these observations were carried out during five different observing runs from september 2002 to november 2003 .",
    "the sample described in this paper consists of 38 galaxies with velocity dispersions , of which 20 are early - type galaxies at @xmath10 , and 18 are early - type galaxies at lower redshift , or late - type galaxies .",
    "100% of our primary targets yielded velocity dispersions .",
    "the cl1252 observations also yielded four velocity dispersions of cluster galaxies .",
    "the fp of the 1252 cluster is discussed by ( holden et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "the spectroscopic data were reduced using standard iraf tasks .",
    "lamp flat fields were taken before or after each night , in sequences of five exposures .",
    "we used the sequence closest in time to the science observation .",
    "cosmic rays were removed using the l.a.cosmic task ( van dokkum 2001 ) .",
    "afterward , all frames were checked manually .",
    "we subtracted a two - dimensional sky spectrum from each exposure , obtained by median averaging the four dithered exposures in a sequence , masking the target and secondary or serendipitous objects , if present .",
    "the atmospheric emission lines , which are bright and abundant in the observed wavelength range , were used to perform the wavelength calibration .",
    "we corrected for distortion in the spatial direction by tracing the target .",
    "all individual exposures were optimally weighted to obtain maximum @xmath34 .",
    "there are various atmospheric absorption features in the observed wavelength range . because the strength and shape of these features change with airmass and atmospheric conditions we needed to correct each exposure separately . to this end",
    "we included a blue star in each of our masks , which was reduced along with the galaxy spectra .",
    "after the final combination , the regions in the galaxy spectra with atmospheric features were divided by the normalized spectrum of the blue star .",
    "spectroscopic standard stars were used to do a relative flux calibration .",
    "one - dimensional spectra were extracted by adding those pixel rows with more than 25% of the flux of the brightest row , weighting optimally .",
    "the smoothed one - dimensional spectra are shown in figure [ fig : spec ] .",
    "the coordinates of the objects for which we measured velocity dispersions ( see section [ sig ] ) in table 1 .",
    "redshifts , @xmath34 and emission lines are given in table 2 .",
    "velocity dispersions are obtained by fitting template spectra to the observed galaxy spectra .",
    "the fitting method is extensively described by ( van dokkum & franx 1996 ) .",
    "the continua of both the observed and the template spectra are filtered out in fourier space and the template spectrum is convolved with a gaussian to match the width of the absorption lines in the galaxy spectrum .",
    "the part of the galaxy spectrum used in the fit is as large as possible .",
    "therefore , our measurements do not rely on a few high @xmath34 absorption features .    as templates we use coud spectra of 132 stars with the appropriate wavelength range from the sample constructed by ( valdes et al .",
    "2004 ) , with a spectral range from f0 to m6 , including both very low and high metallicity stars , and different luminosity classes .",
    "these spectra have a fwhm resolution of about 1 .",
    "each stellar spectrum needs to be smoothed to each galaxy spectrum separately before being re - binned .",
    "a second order function is fitted to the width of atmospheric emission lines as a function of wavelength to obtain the spectral resolution to which the template spectra are smoothed .    when fitting the galaxy spectra , we weight with the inverse of the sky brightness , and we mask the region around the atmospheric a band at 7600 . the spectrum above 9300  is omitted because of the strong atmospheric absorption , the ever increasing brightness of the sky emission lines and the decreasing system throughput .    after performing the fit for a small number of templates , masking and weighting",
    "as described , we check the residuals from the fit . regions with emission lines , large sky line residuals and remaining data artifacts such as cosmic ray remnants are masked if present .",
    "we then apply fit the galaxy spectrum with all template spectra .",
    "we check whether the obtained parameters change strongly if one or two strong features are masked out , but we conclude that this generally is not the case : excluding the strongest features from the fit increases the @xmath35-value but does not change the results significantly in most cases . for some spectra , however , including balmer lines in the fit leads to different results , probably because unseen emission line contributions contaminate these features . for low quality spectra ( @xmath36 per 1.6@xmath37 pixel in the extracted , one - dimensional spectra ) the contributions of balmer lines or other strong features can hardly be checked because excluding these strong features leaves insufficient signal to obtain a proper fit .",
    "therefore , we exclude objects with @xmath38 spectra from our analysis , but we mention the effect of including these .",
    "for all spectra with @xmath39 the random errors are below 3% for @xmath40  km  s@xmath14 , and below 5% for @xmath41  km  s@xmath14 . adding a systematic uncertainty ( including template mismatch and the error on the resolution of the galaxy spectra ) of about 10% for @xmath42 spectra and 2% for the highest @xmath34 spectra the total errors range from 3% to 17% with a median of 7.5% for our sample of early - type galaxies with @xmath39 .",
    "some galaxies have measured velocity dispersions that are not much larger than the resolution of the spectra .",
    "although these are included in the analysis , they play no important role in the derivation of our results .",
    "the best fitting stellar spectral type and the measured velocity dispersion are listed in table 1 .",
    "these velocity dispersions are aperture corrected to a @xmath43 diameter circular aperture at the distance of coma as described by ( jrgenson , franx , & kjrgaard 1995 ) .",
    "this correction ranges from @xmath44 to @xmath45 .",
    "the acs provides us with an unprecedented combination of deep and high resolution imaging . the spatial resolution ( fwhm ) at @xmath8 is @xmath46kpc , allowing us to accurately measure the effective radii of early - type galaxies at this redshift , which typically are a few kpc .",
    "we use the single , unstacked , flat - fielded frames publicly available through the hst mast archive . for the cdfs",
    "the number of frames for different positions ranges from 8 to 24 ( with @xmath47s exposure time each ) . for the cl1252 field",
    "the number of frames ranges from 10 to 40 ( with @xmath48s exposure time each ) , but is mostly 10 as only the center of the cluster has 40 overlapping images .    for each galaxy",
    "each individual @xmath18 band image is fitted by @xmath49-models ( with @xmath50 ) convolved by a position dependent psf created with tinytim ( krist 1995 ) , measuring @xmath51 ( the effective radius ) , @xmath52 ( the surface brightness at @xmath51 ) , the position angle and the ellipticity .",
    "each individually derived set of model parameters is distortion corrected by calculating the pixel scales in the x- and y - directions , using the polynomial distortion coefficients available through the www .",
    "we then average the results and compute the measurement error from the scatter .",
    "the error is generally about 6% in @xmath51 , but the combination of the uncertainty in @xmath51 and @xmath52 is such that it is directed almost parallel to the local fp . the error relevant to the offset from the fp is typically 2% .",
    "thus , uncertainties in the offset from the local fp are dominated by the uncertainty in @xmath53 , of which the error is pointed almost perpendicular to the fp .",
    "the effective radii and surface brightnesses are given in table 1 .",
    "for consistency with earlier studies , these are the values obtained from fitting a de vaucouleur profile in our analysis .",
    "to transform the observed @xmath18 band surface brightnesses to the rest - frame @xmath54 band , we use the technique described by ( van dokkum & franx 1996 ) , using the templates from ( coleman , wu , & weedman 1980 ) and observed colors ( see section [ sec : color ] ) to interpolate between the pass - bands . the calculated rest - frame @xmath54 band surface brightnesses only depend very weakly on the spectral type of the template used . the typical difference found for using the sbc template instead of the e template is less than 0.02 mag .",
    "the transformations are a function of redshift . as an example we give the transformation ( based on the e template ) for a galaxy at @xmath8 :    @xmath55    physical sizes and rest - frame @xmath54-band surface brightnesses are given in table 3 .",
    "figures [ fig : mos ] and [ fig : moslate ] show the combined residuals of the @xmath56-fits along with the color images of the 38 galaxies with velocity dispersions .",
    "figure [ fig : mos ] shows the early - type galaxies , figure [ fig : moslate ] the late - type galaxies .",
    "two numbers are used to characterize the magnitude of the residuals . at the upper right of each residual image",
    "the absolute value of the flux in the asymmetric part of the residual is given as a percentage of the total flux of the galaxy , obtained by subtracting the residual rotated by 180 degrees from the residual itself .",
    "in the upper left the absolute value of the flux in the symmetric part of the residual is given as a percentage of the total flux of the galaxy .",
    "we find that the asymmetric residual is a good indicator of morphology .",
    "our final morphological qualification is a combination of the magnitude of the asymmetric residual and visual inspection of the cause of the asymmetry .",
    "some of the early - type galaxies ( figure [ fig : mos ] ) have significant asymmetric residuals , but these are caused by features on a very small scale , in the centers of the galaxies , i.e. not by features attributed to spiral arms or other large scale irregularities .",
    "the late - type galaxies ( figure [ fig : moslate ] ) have large asymmetric residuals , caused by large scale structures like spiral arms .",
    "we note that the sercic number does not distinguish well between late- and early - type galaxies .",
    "for example , the most massive galaxy in our sample has n=2 and some galaxies that we classify as late - type galaxies have n=4 .",
    "we supplement the acs imaging with ground - based optical and near - ir imaging from fors2 and isaac on the vlt and sofi on the ntt ( vandame et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "goods acs imaging of the cdfs provides photometry in the @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , and @xmath18 bands ( data release version 1.0 ) , and eso s imaging survey provides sofi and isaac imaging in the @xmath57 and @xmath58 bands .",
    "since the cdfs is not entirely covered by isaac we use the sofi data for the objects outside the isaac pointings .",
    "all images were smoothed to match the resolution of the @xmath58 band data with the worst seeing , which is @xmath59 for the isaac imaging and @xmath60 for the sofi imaging .",
    "the photometric differences between the isaac and sofi datasets are small ( @xmath61 mag ) , since the zero - points of the isaac data are based on sofi photometry . for the cl1252 field we use optical imaging from acs ( @xmath17 and @xmath18 ) and fors2 ( @xmath54 , @xmath62 , and @xmath63 ) and near - ir imaging from isaac ( lidman et al .",
    "again , all images were smoothed to match the ground - based data with the worst seeing , which is @xmath64 in the @xmath54 band .",
    "we measure the flux in each band for each of our spectroscopic targets within several apertures with different radii ( @xmath65 and @xmath59 ) . contaminating objects within the aperture",
    "are masked .",
    "we choose to use the fluxes measured within a radius of @xmath66 , with a minimum of @xmath59 , trading off between the measurement accuracy and the amount of contamination .",
    "the @xmath25 and @xmath67 colors are given in table 2 , as well as total _ auto _",
    "@xmath18 band and @xmath58 band magnitudes , as obtained with sextractor ( bertin & arnouts 1996 ) .",
    "the availability of near - ir photometry not only allows us to compute rest - frame @xmath68 colors , but also rest - frame @xmath69 colors . to transform the observed colors to rest - frame @xmath68 and @xmath69 we use the same method as used to calculate rest - frame @xmath54 band surface brightnesses ( see section [ sec : color ] ) . for @xmath8 , using the e template , the transformation is :    @xmath70    @xmath71    rest - frame colors are given in table 3 .",
    "images at www.strw.leidenuniv.nl/~  vdwel / private / fppaper/ [ fig : mos ]    [ fig : mos ]    images at www.strw.leidenuniv.nl/~  vdwel / private / fppaper/ [ fig : moslate ]      for both the cdfs and the cl1252 field deep x - ray data from chandra are available , such that we can check for the presence of agn in our galaxy sample .",
    "giacconi et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and alexander et al . (",
    "2003 ) provide catalogs of the cdfs data .",
    "the chandra data of the cl1252 field is described by ( rosati et al .",
    "2004 ) , who also constructed a point source catalog .",
    "eight galaxies in our sample of 38 are identified as agn , based on their large x - ray luminosities ( typically @xmath72erg s@xmath14 ) .",
    "five of these are early- type galaxies , of which two have emission lines in their spectra . besides the eight agn",
    ", two galaxies in our sample are identified as extended x - ray sources .",
    "this x - ray radiation is accounted for by diffuse halo gas .",
    "the x - ray luminosities of cdfs-4 and cdfs-22 are @xmath73  erg  s@xmath14 and @xmath74  erg  s@xmath14 , respectively .",
    "it is not surprising that cdfs-4 and cdfs-22 turn out to be two of the most massive galaxies in our sample . also , cdfs-22 is one of the galaxies with an agn .",
    "the x - ray properties of our sample of galaxies are given in table 2 .",
    "jrgensen , franx , & kjrgaard ( 1996 ) have shown that the fp for cluster galaxies in the local universe can be described by @xmath75[eq:3 ] where @xmath76 is the effective radius in kpc , @xmath53 the central velocity dispersion in km  s@xmath14 , @xmath77 the surface brightness in the @xmath54 band ( @xmath78 ) , and @xmath79 the intercept .",
    "the values of the coefficients are derived from the early - type galaxies in ten nearby clusters , and imply that mass and @xmath2 scale as @xmath80 . from the sample of faber et al .",
    "( 1989 ) we derived that the intercept of the fp lies lower by 0.04 in the projection given above .",
    "the offsets of the high-@xmath18 galaxies are computed using a local fp with coefficients from jrgensen et al .",
    "( 1996 ) but with the intercept derived from the faber et al .",
    "( 1989 ) sample .    besides the form of the local fp ,",
    "we need a large sample of local field early - type galaxies , for example to address issues such as selection effects .",
    "we construct our local field sample as in bernardi et al .",
    "( 2003 ) : we take early - type galaxies from the sloan digital sky survey and include those with less than 10 neighbors brighter than @xmath81 and closer than @xmath82 .",
    "we convert the rest - frame @xmath83 and @xmath84 band surface brightnesses to a @xmath54 band surface brightness using the conversion given by jrgensen et al .",
    "( 1996 ) . as we need the surface brightness in the @xmath83 and @xmath84 bands at the same radius , and bernardi et al .",
    "derive effective radii separately for each band , we compute the surface brightness in the @xmath84 band at the effective radius as measured in the @xmath83 band .",
    "we note that the fp coefficients as derived by bernardi et al .",
    "are different from those from jrgensen et al . , but this does not lead to different results .    in figure",
    "[ fig : fpe ] we show the fp of the sdss galaxies and our sample , where the surface brightnesses of all galaxies are transformed to the value they would have at @xmath8 , assuming luminosity evolution found for massive cluster galaxies , @xmath85 .",
    "this value for the @xmath2 evolution of massive cluster galaxies is derived from compiling all existing data in the literature for galaxies more massive than @xmath86 ( van dokkum & franx 1996 ; kelson et al .",
    "2000 , van dokkum & stanford 2003 ; wuyts et al .",
    "2004 , holden et al .",
    "our field sample shown in figure [ fig : fpe ] includes all early - type galaxies with spectra with @xmath39 .",
    "this is also the sample used in the analysis throughout the rest of the paper , and in the subsequent figures . as can be seen ,",
    "the fp already existed at @xmath8 for a large range in size . at low masses outliers",
    "occur , but the interpretation is not straightforward , as selection effects play a major role in this regime ( see section 4.3 ) .",
    "the offset of high redshift galaxies from the local fp is interpreted as a difference in @xmath2 as compared to equally massive local galaxies ( see , e.g. , vam dokkum & franx 1996 ) .",
    "figure [ fig : z_dml ] shows the offsets of our field galaxy sample in @xmath87 as a function of redshift .",
    "the values are listed in table 3 .",
    "cluster samples from the literature are also shown .",
    "the galaxies in our sample seem to evolve faster than the galaxies in the cluster samples , and the scatter in @xmath87 is large . before we interpret the scatter and the apparent difference between field and cluster galaxies , we need to investigate the origin of the scatter . in figure",
    "[ fig : bi_ml ] we show @xmath88 as a function of the rest - frame @xmath69 color .",
    "galaxies with low @xmath2 are bluer than galaxies with high @xmath2 , as expected from the stellar population models shown in the figure . in figure",
    "[ fig : ub_ml ] we show a similar relation between rest - frame @xmath68 and @xmath88 , but in this case the correlation is less clear , due to the fact that the range of @xmath68 colors is much smaller than the range of @xmath69 colors , and probably also because @xmath68 is more sensitive to small variations in the star formation history . considering the correlation between color and @xmath2 and the fact that @xmath2 evolves with redshift , one expects that color evolves with redshift as well . in figure",
    "[ fig : z_bi ] we show @xmath69 as a function of redshift ; note the strong similarities between figures [ fig : z_dml ] and [ fig : z_bi ] . the strong correlation between color and @xmath2 , and the similarity in @xmath2 evolution and color evolution confirm that the observed evolution and scatter of @xmath2 are intrinsic , and not due to measurement errors .",
    "we calculate the evolution of @xmath2 of our field sample by performing a linear fit and minimizing the mean deviation , weighting by the inverse of the error , and forcing the fit to go through the @xmath89 data point derived from the faber et al .",
    "( 1989 ) sample .",
    "we separately consider the evolution of the primary sample , which contains the galaxies satisfying all of our selection criteria .",
    "we find that the average evolution of our entire early - type galaxy sample is @xmath90 ( @xmath91 for the primary sample alone ) , which is significantly faster than the evolution found for cluster galaxies , which is @xmath92 ( van dokkum & franx 1996 ; kelson et al . 2000 , van dokkum & stanford 2003 ; wuyts et al .",
    "2004 , holden et al . 2005 ) .",
    "the scatter in @xmath87 is @xmath93 for our field galaxy sample ( 0.54 for the primary sample ) , and @xmath94 for the ms1054 cluster sample ( wuyts et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "figure [ fig : fpe ] suggests that the @xmath2 evolution may depend on galaxy mass , as galaxies with small @xmath51 and low @xmath53 tend to lie lower with respect to the local fp as compared to galaxies with large @xmath51 and high @xmath53 .",
    "this was also found for cluster galaxies by wuyts et al .",
    "we estimate @xmath11 and @xmath2 in solar units as described by van dokkum & stanford ( 2003 ) .",
    "the values are listed in table 3 .",
    "we explore the mass dependence by color coding the galaxies in figure [ fig : z_dml ] according to their masses .",
    "red points are galaxies with masses larger than @xmath86 ; blue points are galaxies that have masses lower than @xmath86 .",
    "there is a striking difference between low and high mass galaxies . for galaxies with masses",
    "@xmath95 we measure @xmath96 for our field sample and @xmath97 for the cluster samples . for the massive galaxies in the primary sample alone we find @xmath98 .",
    "the observed scatter is decreased to @xmath99 for the field sample ( 0.32 for the primary sample ) , and to @xmath94 for the cluster samples . when changing this mass cut to @xmath100 , as is done by wuyts et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , but thereby limiting the number of galaxies in our sample to four , we find @xmath101 and @xmath102 for our sample and the cluster samples , respectively .",
    "we conclude that for high - mass galaxies , there is no difference between the cluster samples and our field sample .",
    "the galaxies with masses @xmath103 in our sample evolve much faster : @xmath104 ( @xmath105 for the primary sample alone ) .",
    "we verify that these results do not change if galaxies with spectra with @xmath38 are included as well .",
    "therefore , the accuracy of our results is not limited by the quality of the velocity dispersions .    in figures [ fig : z_dml ] and [ fig : z_bi ]",
    "we show evolutionary tracks for a single stellar population for formation redshifts @xmath8 and 2 .",
    "this very simple model assumes that luminosity evolves with time as @xmath106 , where @xmath107 is derived from stellar population models ( see van dokkum et al .",
    "( 1998 ) for more details ) .",
    "these tracks indicate a large spread in formation redshifts .",
    "we note , however , that @xmath107 is sensitive to the imf . here",
    "we use a single stellar population from bruzual & charlot ( 2003 ) with a salpeter imf and solar metallicity , which yields @xmath108 in the @xmath54 band and @xmath109 in the @xmath110 band . according to this model the massive galaxies have high luminosity weighted formation redshifts ( @xmath111 ) , whereas less massive galaxies in our sample have lower formation redshifts ( @xmath112 ) .",
    "figure [ fig : m_ml ] illustrates the tight relation between mass and @xmath88 .",
    "we also show the sdss field sample described in section 4.1 .",
    "the @xmath2 of all galaxies have been corrected for evolution as derived from massive cluster galaxies , @xmath85 .    at @xmath8 ,",
    "the relation between @xmath2 and @xmath11 seems much steeper than in the local universe .",
    "however , we have to take selection effects into account .",
    "since we selected our sample in the @xmath18 band , we can transform our magnitude limit into a luminosity limit in the rest - frame @xmath54 band , which is close to the observed @xmath18 band at @xmath10 ( the median redshift of our sample of 16 @xmath10 galaxies is @xmath113 ) . because this luminosity limit only applies to our primary sample",
    ", this discussion does not involve the fillers ( mainly galaxies at @xmath114 ) .",
    "afterward , we will comment on these galaxies .",
    "we first test whether the observed distribution can be fully explained by selection effects , assuming that the slope and the scatter of the fp do not evolve .",
    "the probability that the observed distribution is drawn from a population with the same distribution as the sdss galaxies is 0.14% , if the @xmath2 evolution is the same for all galaxies .",
    "therefore , the slope evolves , the scatter evolves , or both .",
    "if there is an age difference between high and low mass galaxies , the scatter will most probably also evolve differently for high and low mass galaxies .",
    "we can not exclude with high confidence that the observed distribution of @xmath2 is due to a larger scatter at high redshift : if the scatter in @xmath2 at @xmath8 is twice as large as in the local universe , the probability of a non - evolving slope is 8.0% . however , we see no evidence for an increase in the scatter at the high mass end , where selection effects do not play a role .",
    "hence , if the scatter evolves , this is only true for galaxies with masses @xmath115 .",
    "since the increased scatter is most likely caused by young ages , low mass galaxies would have lower @xmath2 , and hence the slope of the relation would also be changed .",
    "we consider these findings as strong evidence for mass - dependent evolution of early - type galaxies .",
    "to confirm that we observed a change in the slope of the fp , deeper and larger surveys are needed .",
    "the location of the luminosity limit at @xmath8 in figure [ fig : m_ml ] shows that our @xmath10 sample is dominated by selection effects for masses @xmath116 .",
    "the objects which such low masses are only included in the sample because of their probably extreme @xmath2 . we can not correct the @xmath2 of that subsample for the bias introduced by our luminosity limit .    on the other hand , for the sample of galaxies with higher masses , we can correct for selection effects , because they are relevant , but not dominant , as can be seen in figure [ fig : m_ml ] .",
    "the average evolution of the galaxies in the primary sample with masses @xmath117 is @xmath118 .",
    "the median mass of this subsample of 12 galaxies is @xmath119 .",
    "we estimate the maximum bias by assuming that the slope is the same at @xmath8 and in the local universe , but that the scatter is a factor two larger at @xmath8 than at @xmath120 . in that case",
    "the observed distribution is expected to follow the short - dashed line in figure [ fig : m_ml ] . at a given mass ,",
    "the difference between the solid line and the short - dashed line is the bias introduced by the selection effects in luminosity .",
    "we increase the observed @xmath2 of each galaxy in our primary sample by the difference between the solid line and the short - dashed line at the mass of that galaxy . for galaxies more massive than @xmath121",
    "this correction is negligible , but for the galaxies with masses @xmath122 this correction is about 30% . using this method , we find a bias corrected evolution of the galaxies with masses @xmath117 of @xmath123 .",
    "given the uncertainty in the intrinsic scatter , deeper observations are necessary to confirm this value .    besides a bias due to the luminosity limit , errors in the velocity dispersion produce correlated errors in @xmath11 and @xmath2 , hence underestimating the measured evolution . taking the errors in @xmath53 into account , we find that this introduces a bias at the level of only 2 - 3% , which is several times smaller than our measurement accuracy .",
    "the above analysis only involves @xmath10 galaxies satisfying all our selection criteria , but we note that the relation between @xmath2 and @xmath11 exists for the @xmath114 galaxies as well .",
    "however , this subsample is selected in an inhomogeneous way , therefore it is impossible to correct the observed evolution .",
    "since all the galaxies roughly lie along lines of constant luminosity , the bias toward low @xmath2 galaxies likely explains the observed relation between @xmath11 and @xmath2 for this sub - sample .    besides by luminosity and morphology ,",
    "the galaxies in our sample are also selected by color .",
    "this potentially introduces an important bias in the measured evolution , because of the exclusion of galaxies with blue colors , i.e. , low @xmath2 .",
    "our color criterion , however , is quite generous .",
    "even the very blue , low mass galaxies satisfy this criterion . for typical bruzual - charlot models ,",
    "our color limit ( @xmath124 ) corresponds to @xmath125 at @xmath8 , which is 0.2 mag bluer than the limit applied by bell et al .",
    "( 2004b ) to select galaxies on the red sequence at @xmath10 .",
    "our color cut is 0.45 mag bluer than the color - magnitude relation found by the same authors . from bruzual - charlot models we estimate that we only miss galaxies that are younger than @xmath126 gyr ( see figures 7 and 8) . furthermore , bell et al . (",
    "2004b ) did not find blue , massive galaxies in the entire combo-17 dataset .",
    "hence it is very unlikely that we miss any blue galaxy at the bright end of our sample because of our color selection criterion .",
    "it is particularly interesting to compare our results to the results from studies involving lensing galaxies , since those samples are mass selected .",
    "rusin et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and van de ven et al .",
    "( 2003 ) find @xmath127 and @xmath128 , respectively , using the same dataset .",
    "this seems somewhat low compared to the evolution of our sample and results found in the literature , but the lensing galaxies typically have high masses ( see table 4 ) .",
    "the data for individual galaxies published by van de ven et al . show that the median mass of the lens sample is @xmath86 , whereas the median mass of our early - type galaxy sample is @xmath129 .",
    "the galaxies in the lens sample that are more massive than @xmath86 evolve as @xmath130 .",
    "the galaxies less massive than this evolve much faster : @xmath131 .",
    "the similarity between the results from the lensing sample and our sample is striking , especially because the lensing sample is mass selected .",
    "hence , it is very hard to see how a bias toward low @xmath2 galaxies can be responsible for the observed mass dependence in the lensing sample .",
    "it is possible that not all the low mass lenses are genuine early - types .",
    "if we omit the most irregular lenses ( fbq0951 + 2635 , sbs1520 + 530 , and b1608 + 656 ) , we still find rapid evolution , @xmath132 , for low mass lensing galaxies .",
    "hence , these results provide strong evidence that the observed dependence of @xmath2 evolution on mass in our sample is real .",
    "one possible complicating factor is that the lensing cross - section of galaxies in groups is larger than that of galaxies in the lowest density environments .",
    "this may lead to a difference between the populations of the lensing sample are our sample .",
    "it is interesting to see that galaxies with emission lines have relatively low @xmath2 , as can be seen from both figure [ fig : z_dml ] and [ fig : m_ml ] .",
    "treu et al .",
    "( 2002 ) have already shown that a substantial fraction of the massive early - type galaxy population at high redshift shows evidence for ongoing star formation by the presence of emission lines .",
    "galaxies with emission lines in our sample , however , tend to have low masses .",
    "figure [ fig : m_ml ] suggests that several of the galaxies with masses @xmath133 are included in the magnitude limited sample only because they are forming stars .",
    "when excluding galaxies with emission lines , the evolution of the sample ( without applying a mass cut ) , is @xmath134 .",
    "the galaxies with emission lines evolve faster : @xmath135 . on average , the mass of the galaxies without emission lines is 1.5 times larger than the mass of the galaxies with emission lines .",
    "mergers or interactions , accompanied with star formation , can lead to both deviations from smooth @xmath49-profiles and low @xmath2 values .",
    "van dokkum & ellis ( 2003 ) have shown tentative examples of this phenomenon .",
    "figure [ fig : asym_dml ] shows the magnitude of the asymmetric residual , ( described in section [ sec : profiles ] ) , versus the offset from the fp , corrected for luminosity evolution .",
    "there is no correlation between deviations from smooth surface profiles and @xmath2 , and we find no evidence for a connection between star formation activity and interactions or mergers .",
    "four out of 11 early - type galaxies at @xmath136 have agn , and one out of 16 for the @xmath137 sample , as determined from x - ray imaging ( see section 3.3 ) .",
    "of the five early - type galaxies with agn , three are more massive than @xmath121 and two have emission lines in their spectra .",
    "the @xmath2 evolution of galaxies in our sample with agn is @xmath138 , which is not very different from the value for galaxies without agn : @xmath139 .",
    "however , the galaxies with agn are twice as massive than the galaxies without agn . considering high mass galaxies only ( @xmath95 ) ,",
    "we find @xmath140 for galaxies with agn and @xmath141 for galaxies without agn .",
    "now , the trend is reversed , but only one out of the five galaxies with an agn has a particularly blue @xmath69 color for its @xmath2 .",
    "therefore , a larger sample is needed to confirm that the epochs of star formation and agn activity are related .",
    "woo et al .",
    "( 2004 ) find that up to @xmath142 the evolution of the fp for galaxies selected to have agn is indistinguishable from otherwise selected galaxies .",
    "our results provide tentative evidence that a difference may set in at higher redshift .",
    "various other authors have measured the @xmath2 evolution of field early - type galaxies . in this section",
    "we compare these previous results with our findings , and we comment on the apparent inconsistencies that exist in the literature . in table 4",
    "we give the @xmath2 evolution as reported by other papers , as well as the values we derive using the tabulated datasets given in those papers .    treu et al .",
    "( 2002 ) find @xmath143 .",
    "this number is corrected for selection effects , while the value in table 4 is uncorrected , to make a fair comparison with other results .",
    "the median mass of the sample presented by treu et al .",
    "( 2003 ) is @xmath144 for a sample extending to @xmath145 .",
    "tabulated data are only available for the lower redshift galaxies presented in treu et al .",
    "only the galaxies with very low redshifts ( @xmath146 ) have low masses , therefore the comparison between high and low mass galaxies can not be made .",
    "we note that the evolution of the entire treu et al .",
    "sample is consistent with the evolution of our entire sample , @xmath147 , and that the evolution of the massive galaxies in our sample is only mildly inconsistent with the evolution of the treu et al",
    "several of the high mass galaxies in the treu et al .",
    "sample have emission lines in their spectra , which contrasts with our sample .",
    "van dokkum et al . ( 2001 ) find @xmath148 for an average redshift @xmath149 .",
    "the galaxy masses range from @xmath150 to @xmath151 and are evenly distributed in @xmath152 .",
    "remarkably , when taking the tabulated data of the individual galaxies , and applying our fitting method , we find a larger value : @xmath153 ( see table 4 ) .",
    "van dokkum et al .",
    "create redshift bins in which they calculate the bi - weight center of the @xmath2 offset .",
    "this method is sensitive to the bin choice , which leads to the difference between the reported value and the value calculated with our fitting method .",
    "we note that , when using our fitting method , the result of van dokkum et al .",
    "is very similar to the result presented in this paper . splitting the van dokkum et al .",
    "sample into low and high mass galaxies ( at @xmath86 ) , we find @xmath154 for the high mass galaxies , and @xmath155 for the low mass galaxies .",
    "we verified that this @xmath156 difference can be explained entirely by the fact that the galaxies are luminosity selected , not mass selected .",
    "contrary to this study and the work of treu et al .",
    ", van dokkum et al . did not select the galaxies by color , but by morphology and magnitude only .",
    "van dokkum & ellis ( 2003 ) find @xmath157 .",
    "the difference in fitting method , mentioned above , applies to this study as well .",
    "additionally , their transformation from @xmath110-band surface brightness to rest - frame @xmath54-band surface brightness , using @xmath158 colors , is uncertain .",
    "namely , using @xmath158 is an extrapolation for galaxies at @xmath159 .",
    "this leads to a different value for the @xmath2 evolution if we use our method to fit to the individual galaxy data of the samples of van dokkum et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and van dokkum & ellis ( 2003 ) : @xmath160 , a value very similar to the result yielded by our sample . using the bi - weight center to measure",
    "the evolution effectively gives very low weighting factors to outliers .",
    "if the two galaxies with the lowest @xmath2 in the high-@xmath18 sample of van dokkum et al . are omitted , we find @xmath161 . the measurement accuracy , together with the uncertain transformation to rest - frame properties can explain the remaining difference .",
    "the new sample described by van dokkum & ellis ( 2003 ) is too small to verify whether there is a trend with galaxy mass .",
    "there is one galaxy more massive than @xmath86 with @xmath162 . as is the case for the sample of van dokkum et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , the sample of van dokkum & ellis ( 2003 ) is not selected by color .",
    "this did not lead to faster evolution due to including blue early - type galaxies , which indicates that the color cuts in the other studies are adequately generous to avoid this bias .",
    "gebhardt et al .",
    "( 2003 ) ( hereafter g03 ) report a brightening in the rest - frame @xmath54 band of early - type galaxies by 2.4 magnitudes at @xmath8 , which is derived from fitting a cubic spline to the offsets of the galaxies from the local fp . with our fitting method , we find @xmath163 , using the data of the individual galaxies in that sample .",
    "this is consistent with the result presented in this paper .",
    "the difference between the value reported by g03 and our result using their data is caused by the three galaxies at redshifts @xmath137 .",
    "our linear fit to their data and their fit agree well up to @xmath164 ( 1.6 magnitudes brightening ) .",
    "if we split the g03 sample into high and low mass galaxies , we find an evolution of @xmath165 for galaxies more massive than @xmath86 , and @xmath166 for less massive galaxies . for low mass galaxies our result , @xmath167 , and that of g03 agree well .",
    "the fast evolution for massive galaxies in their sample remains unexplained , but given the large uncertainty and the small number of objects the inconsistency is only mild .",
    "we note , however , that contrary to the early - type galaxies in our sample , the early - type galaxies in the g03 sample do not show a correlation between @xmath2 and rest - frame @xmath68 color .",
    "one of the galaxies in the g03 sample serves as an example of the uncertainty .",
    "+ 5226 has been observed spectroscopically before ( ohyama et al .",
    "2002 ) and happens to be in the sample of lensing galaxies of rusin et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and van de ven ( 2003 ) . g03",
    "give a stellar velocity dispersion of @xmath168 km  s@xmath14 corrected to the same aperture as our dispersions .",
    "ohyama et al .",
    "have measured @xmath169 km  s@xmath14 , also corrected to the same aperture , which implies a somewhat smaller offset from the local fp .",
    "van de ven et al .",
    "report a value of @xmath170 km  s@xmath14 as derived from the lensing model .",
    "the latter value leads to a rate of evolution that we find for the massive galaxies in our sample .",
    "repeated observation of these massive galaxies may be illuminating .",
    "we conclude that all the results found in the literature are mutually consistent , once differences in calculating and presenting the results have been taken into account .",
    "we obtained ultra - deep spectroscopy for 27 field early - type galaxies with redshifts @xmath0 .",
    "the offset of these high redshift galaxies from the local fp is used as a measure of the evolution of @xmath2 and as an age estimator .",
    "the average evolution of the early type galaxies in our sample is @xmath90 .",
    "the value we find for galaxies in the primary sample , those galaxies satisfying all our selection criteria , is the same .",
    "the scatter in @xmath87 is large : 0.58 .",
    "this shows that some galaxies must have high luminosity weighted formation redshifts ( @xmath171 ) , while others have formed a large fraction of their stars at redshifts @xmath112 .",
    "emission lines in the spectra indicate that some galaxies show signs of ongoing star formation at the epoch of observation .",
    "this is in agreement with the presence of massive early - type galaxies with emission lines at @xmath142 treu et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , although the galaxies with emission lines in our sample tend to have low masses .",
    "we find a tight correlation between @xmath2 and rest - frame color , which shows that the variation in @xmath2 among the galaxies in the sample is intrinsic , and due to differences in the stellar populations .",
    "the galaxies in our sample span a large range of masses .",
    "we find that low mass galaxies have larger offsets from the local fp than high mass galaxies . because luminosity selected samples are biased toward galaxies with low @xmath2 this is a trend that is expected .",
    "we carefully analyze whether the observed correlation between mass and @xmath2 can entirely be explained by this selection effect or not .",
    "we find that galaxies with masses @xmath172 are only included in our sample because they have low @xmath2 . for galaxies at @xmath10 with masses larger than @xmath173 , our sample",
    "is biased , but to a limited amount . taking into account the selection effect",
    ", we exclude with high confidence that the distribution of mass and @xmath2 of our @xmath10 galaxy sample with masses @xmath174 has the same distribution as the low redshift field early - type galaxy sample taken from bernardi et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , corrected for evolution .",
    "we do not claim that we have observed a change of the slope of the fp , because we can not exclude the possibility that our sample is drawn from a distribution that has the same slope as the bernardi et al .",
    "sample , but with a scatter that is twice as large at @xmath8 .",
    "however , the outliers do not occur at the high mass end ( @xmath175 ) of our galaxy sample , but at lower masses , namely @xmath176 .",
    "therefore , our results show that the evolution of early - type galaxies is mass - dependent , whether by an increase in the scatter at lower masses , or by systematic faster evolution of lower mass galaxies as compared to higher mass galaxies , or , which is the most natural explanation , by a combination of these effects . assuming the scatter has decreased from @xmath8 to the present day by a factor of 2",
    ", we find that the for bias corrected @xmath2 evolution of @xmath10 early - type galaxies with masses @xmath174 is @xmath123 .",
    "previous studies ( treu et al . 2001 , 2002 ; van dokkum et al . 2001 , van dokkum & ellis 2003 , gebhardt et al . 2003 ) , that claimed to have derived mutually exclusive results , are in fact consistent with our results , if the same fitting method is applied to the different datasets .",
    "particularly interesting is the consistency of our results with the results from a sample of lensing galaxies ( rusin et al .",
    "2003 ; van de ven 2003 ) , which also shows the mass - dependence , even though this sample is not biased toward galaxies with low @xmath2 : because of the selection technique , the lens sample contains galaxies with typical @xmath2 at a given mass .",
    "our luminosity limited sample is sensitive to outliers , which are present indeed .",
    "the combination of these independent results strengthens the evidence for mass - dependent evolution and the combined increase in both slope and scatter with redshift .",
    "bell et al .",
    "( 2004 ) claim that the mass density of red sequence galaxies increases by at least a factor of 2 from @xmath10 to the present .",
    "this is partly based on the observation that the luminosity density is constant out to @xmath8 .",
    "the @xmath2 evolution of our galaxy sample implies an increase by a factor of 4 in the mass density . in the local universe ,",
    "most of the mass density in early - type galaxies is accounted for by galaxies with a velocity dispersion of @xmath177 km s@xmath14 ( kochanek et al .",
    "2000 ) or a mass of @xmath178 .",
    "if those galaxies , which evolve somewhat slower , dominate the evolution of the mass density , the increase is slightly less ( @xmath179 ) .",
    "the correlation between mass and @xmath2 has been observed in clusters as well ( wuyts et al .",
    "2004 ) , but this can entirely be explained by selection effects . both our field sample and the cluster samples found in the literature are not strongly biased for galaxy masses @xmath180 .",
    "when applying this mass cut , the evolution for cluster galaxies is @xmath181 , and the evolution for field galaxies is @xmath96 ( @xmath182 for galaxies in the primary sample ) .",
    "galaxies with masses comparable to the mass of @xmath183 galaxies in the local universe ( @xmath178 ) have luminosity weighted ages that imply formation redshifts @xmath111 , independent of environment .",
    "if progenitor bias is important , the luminosity weighted age of typical early - type galaxies in the local universe can be considerably lower .    in hierarchical formation models ,",
    "the predicted difference between the @xmath2 of field and cluster galaxies is @xmath184 , independent of redshift ( van dokkum et al .",
    "this large difference is related to the difficulty of constructing isolated galaxies without active star formation , i.e. to the lack of a mechanism that truncates star formation from within the galaxy .",
    "our results rule out this prediction at the 99.6% confidence level , up to @xmath185 .",
    "our findings are consistent with down - sizing ( cowie et al .",
    "1996 ; kodama 2004 ) .",
    "this idea is independently corroborated by other observations , such as the decrease of the mass of e+a galaxies with time ( tran et al .",
    "2003 ) , the lack of star formation in massive galaxies at redshifts @xmath186 ( de lucia et al .",
    "2004 ) , the fossil record of star formation in local early - type galaxies ( thomas et al .",
    "2004 ) , and the claim of mass - dependent evolution of spiral galaxies ( ziegler et al .",
    "2002 , bhm et al .",
    "the lack of age differences between field and cluster galaxies , and the suggested mass - dependent evolution of early - type galaxies show that individual properties of a galaxy , and not environment , play an important role in its formation .",
    "we have shown that rest - frame optical colors can be used to measure galaxy masses at high redshift .",
    "this can be regarded as a step toward accurately calibrating sed fitting as a mass estimator . certainly including spitzer photometry in the rest - frame",
    "near - infrared will provide tight correlations between dynamically derived @xmath2 and @xmath2 derived from sed fitting .",
    "line - strengths of absorption features in our high @xmath34 spectra will connect low redshift fossil record studies to evolutionary studies such as these , and constrain the metallicity range of early - type galaxies at @xmath10 , lifting the age - metallicity degeneracy . using the mass calibration for high - redshift galaxies ,",
    "the evolution of the mass density and the mass function can be determined from volume limited samples .",
    "this will provide strong constraints on formation theories and the importance of progenitor bias .",
    "we thank the referee for many useful comments , enhancing the quality and the readability of the work .",
    "we thank the eso staff for their professional and effective assistance during the observations .",
    "the lorentz center is thanked for its hospitality during various workshops and the leidsch kerkhoven - bosscha fonds for its financial support .",
    "alexander , d.m .",
    ", et al . , 2003 , , 126 , 539 bell , e. , mcintosh , d.h . ,",
    "katz , n. , & weinberg , m.d .",
    "2003 , , 149 , 289 bell , e.f .",
    ", et al . 2004 , , 608 , 752 bernardi .",
    "2003 , , 125 .",
    "1866 bertin , e. & arnouts , s. , 1996 , , 117 , 393 blakeslee , j.p .",
    ", et al . 2003 , , 596 , 143 bhm , a. et al . 2004 , , 420 , 97 bruzual , a. g. , charlot , s. 2003 , , 344 , 1000 cole , s. , lacey , s. , baugh , c.m . , frenk , c.s .",
    "2000 , , 319 , 168 coleman , g.d . ,",
    "wu , c .- c . , weedman , d.w .",
    "1980 , , 43 , 393 cowie , l.l .",
    ", songaila , a. , hu , e.m . , & cohen , j.g .",
    "1996 , , 112 , 839 de lucia , g. et al .",
    "2004 , , 610 , l77 diaferio , a. , kauffmann , g. , balogh , m.l . ,",
    "white , s.d.m .",
    ", schade , d. & ellingson , e. 2001 , , 323 , 999 djorgovski , s. & davis , m. 1987 , , 313 , 59 dressler , a. , lynden - bell , d. , burstein , d. , davies , r.l .",
    ", faber , s.m . , terlevich , r. , wegner , g. 1987 , , 313 , 42 faber , s.m . , wegner , g. , burstein , d. , davies , r. l. , dressler , a. , lynden - bell , d. , & terlevich , r. l. 1989 , , 69 , 763 kauffmann , g. , charlot , s. 1998 , , 279 , l23 franx , m , 1993 , , 105 , 1058 gebhardt , k. et al .",
    "2003 , 597 , 239 giacconi , r. , et al . 2002 , 139 , 369 giavalisco .",
    "2004 , , 600 , l93 holden , b.p . , et al .",
    "2005 , , in press , astro - ph/0412570 jrgensen , i. , franx , m. & kjrgaard , p. 1995",
    ", , 276 , 134 jrgensen , i. , franx , m. & kjrgaard , p. 1996",
    ", , 280 , 167 kauffmann , g. , & charlot , s. 1998 , , 297 , l23 kelson , d.d . , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", franx , m. , van dokkum , p.g .",
    "2000 , , 531 , 184 kochanek , c.s .",
    "2000 , , 543 , 131 kodama et al .",
    "2004 , , 350 , 1005 krist , j. 1995 , in asp conf .",
    "77 , astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , ed .",
    "shaw , h.e .",
    "payne , & j.j.e .",
    "hayes ( san fransisco : asp ) , 349 lidman , c. , rosati , p. , demarco , r. , nonino , m. , mainieri , v. , stanford , s.a . ,",
    "toft , s. 2004 , , 416 , 829 ohyama , y et al .",
    "2002 , , 123 , 2903 rosati , p. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 127 , 230 rusin , d. et al .",
    "2003 , , 587 , 143 thomas , d. , maraston , c. , bender , r. , & c. mendez de oliveira 2004 , , in press tran , k .- v . ,",
    "franx , m. , illingworth , g.d . ,",
    "kelson , d.d . , & van dokkum , p.g .",
    "2003 , , 599 , 865 treu , t. , stiavelli , m. , bertin .",
    "g. , casertano , s. , & mller , p. 2001",
    ", , 326 , 237 treu , t. , stiavelli , m. , casertano , s. , mller , p. & bertin , g. 2002 , , 564 , l13 valdes , f. , gupta , r. , rose , j.a . ,",
    "singh , h.p .",
    ", bell , d.j .",
    "2004 , , 152 , 251 vandame , b. et al .",
    ", in preparation van der wel .",
    "a. , franx , m. , van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "rix , h .- w .",
    ", 2004 , , 601 , l5 van de ven , p.m. , van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. 2003 , , 344 , 924 van dokkum , p.g .",
    "2001 , , 113 , 1420 van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. 1996 , , 281 , 985 van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. , kelson , d.d . , illingworth , g.d .",
    "1998 , , 504 , l17 van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. , kelson , d.d . , illingworth , g.d .",
    "2001 , , 553 , l39 van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. 2001 , , 553 , 90 van dokkum , p.g . , ellis , r.s .",
    "2003 , , 592 , l53 van dokkum , p.g . & stanford , s.a .",
    "2003 , s.a .",
    "2003 , , 585 , 78 wolf , c. et al .",
    "2004 , , 421 , 913 woo , j.h , urry , c.m . , lira , p. , van der marel , r.p . , and maza , j. 2004 , , in press wuyts , s. , van dokkum , p.g . , kelson , d.d .",
    ", franx , m. , illingworth , g.d .",
    "2004 , , 605 , 677 ziegler , b.l .",
    "2002 , , 564 , 69       lccccccccccccc i d & e & x - ray & @xmath187 & @xmath34 & @xmath53 & type & @xmath51 & @xmath188 & @xmath21 & @xmath25 & @xmath189 & @xmath67 + & & & & & km  s@xmath14 & & @xmath190 & & & & & + cl1252 - 1 & & a & 0.671 & 48 & @xmath191 & k2 & 0.46 & 21.69 & 20.72 & 0.53 & 17.27 & 1.95 + cl1252 - 2 & & & 0.658 & 75 & @xmath192 & g2 & 0.18 & 20.04 & 20.35 & 0.46 & & + cl1252 - 3@xmath193 & @xmath194 , [ ] & a & 0.844 & 83 & @xmath195 & f6 & 1.04 & 22.78 & 19.30 & 0.54 & & + cl1252 - 4@xmath193 & [ ] & & 0.743 & 93 & @xmath196 & f8 & 1.02 & 23.00 & 19.56 & 0.41 & 17.49 & 1.58 + cl1252 - 5 & & a & 0.743 & 61 & @xmath197 & k1 & 0.36 & 21.07 & 19.91 & 0.53 & 16.98 & 1.81 + cl1252 - 6 & & & 0.734 & 123 & @xmath198 & g2 & 0.24 & 20.43 & 20.19 & 0.51 & 17.51 & 1.77 + cl1252 - 7 & [ ] & a & 0.753 & 135 & @xmath199 & g8 & 0.33 & 20.53 & 19.56 & 0.47 & & + cl1252 - 8 & [ ] & & 1.069 & 19 & @xmath200 & f4 & 0.27 & 21.92 & 21.41 & 1.00 & & + cl1252 - 9 & & & 1.036 & 18 & @xmath201 & f8 & 0.22 & 21.71 & 21.59 & 0.88 & & + cdfs-1 & [ ] & a & 1.089 & 27 & @xmath202 & f4 & 0.44 & 21.97 & 20.36 & 1.12 & 17.70 & 1.83 + cdfs-2 & & & 0.964 & 40 & @xmath203 & g0 & 0.39 & 21.47 & 20.10 & 1.04 & 17.15 & 1.74 + cdfs-3 & & & 1.044 & 17 & @xmath204 & g4 & 0.15 & 20.39 & 21.14 & 1.07 & 18.29 & 1.75 + cdfs-4 & & x & 0.964 & 33 & @xmath205 & g0 & 1.00 & 22.94 & 19.55 & 1.11 & 16.44 & 1.89 + cdfs-5 & & & 0.685 & 32 & @xmath206 & k1 & 0.37 & 21.64 & 20.42 & 0.66 & 18.27 & 1.81 + cdfs-6 & & & 0.660 & 49 & @xmath207 & g0 & 0.15 & 19.36 & 20.10 & 0.59 & 17.32 & 1.67 + cdfs-7 & & & 1.135 & 17 & @xmath208 & g4 & 0.74 & 23.32 & 20.58 & 1.14 & 17.26 & 1.97 + cdfs-8 & & & 1.125 & 6 & @xmath209 & g4 & 0.20 & 21.53 & 21.66 & 1.19 & 18.70 & 1.84 + cdfs-9 & & & 1.097 & 8 & @xmath210 & g0 & 0.21 & 21.20 & 21.21 & 1.22 & 18.09 & 1.86 + cdfs-10 & [ ] & & 1.119 & 9 & @xmath211 & f6 & 0.091 & 19.68 & 21.50 & 1.10 & 18.72 & 1.70 + cdfs-11 & [ ] & & 1.096 & 10 & @xmath212 & g2 & 0.23 & 21.87 & 21.67 & 1.23 & 17.93 & 1.9 + cdfs-12 & & & 1.123 & 20 & @xmath213 & g4 & 0.14 & 20.42 & 21.29 & 1.17 & 18.00 & 1.87 + cdfs-13 & & & 0.980 & 46 & @xmath214 & g4 & 0.20 & 20.93 & 20.17 & 1.05 & 17.22 & 1.83 + cdfs-14 & & & 0.984 & 18 & @xmath215 & g4 & 0.39 & 22.19 & 20.85 & 1.01 & 17.25 & 1.78 + cdfs-15 & & & 0.622 & 55 & @xmath216 & g8 & 0.31 & 20.94 & 20.09 & 0.62 & 17.41 & 1.73 + cdfs-16 & & & 0.669 & 31 & @xmath217 & g8 & 0.33 & 21.09 & 20.12 & 0.66 & 17.32 & 1.81 + cdfs-17@xmath193 & & & 0.954 & 18 & @xmath218 & f4 & 0.83 & 23.33 & 20.35 & 0.89 & 17.84 & 1.81 + cdfs-18 & & & 1.096 & 14 & @xmath219 & g0 & 0.51 & 22.21 & 20.3 & 1.20 & 16.98 & 1.92 + cdfs-19 & [ ] & & 0.955 & 15 & @xmath220 & g4 & 0.34 & 20.35 & 19.30 & 0.49 & 17.53 & 1.56 + cdfs-20 & & & 1.022 & 25 & @xmath221 & g2 & 0.34 & 21.69 & 20.65 & 1.19 & 16.94 & 1.93 + cdfs-21 & & & 0.735 & 56 & @xmath222 & f4 & 0.073 & 18.52 & 20.81 & 0.56 & 18.05 & 1.59 + cdfs-22 & & a , x & 0.735 & 46 & @xmath223 & k1 & 0.67 & 22.25 & 19.73 & 0.76 & 16.84 & 1.77 + cdfs-23 & & & 1.041 & 13 & @xmath224 & g4 & 0.39 & 22.59 & 21.23 & 1.09 & 18.51 & 1.77 + cdfs-24@xmath193 & & a & 1.042 & 25 & @xmath225 & f8 & 1.87 & 24.35 & 19.60 & 0.96 & 17.10 & 2.00 + cdfs-25 & & & 0.967 & 28 & @xmath226 & f6 & 0.13 & 20.02 & 21.10 & 1.02 & 18.13 & 1.65 + cdfs-26@xmath193 & & & 1.129 & 14 & @xmath227 & g0 & 1.12 & 23.83 & 20.19 & 1.14 & 17.43 & 1.99 + cdfs-27 & [ ] & & 1.128 & 8 & @xmath228 & f6 & 0.67 & 23.68 & 21.15 & 0.91 & 18.69 & 1.58 + cdfs-28@xmath193 & [ ] & a & 0.954 & 12 & @xmath229 & g4 & 0.80 & 23.54 & 20.64 & 0.80 & 18.52 & 1.78 + cdfs-29 & & & 1.128 & 19 & @xmath230 & f6 & 0.21 & 20.89 & 20.86 & 1.12 & 17.58 & 1.65 +    lcccccccc i d & @xmath187 & @xmath231 & @xmath232 & @xmath152 & @xmath233 & @xmath234 & @xmath68 & @xmath69 + & & @xmath235 & @xmath236 & @xmath237 & @xmath238 & & & + cl1252 - 1 & @xmath239 & @xmath240 & @xmath241 & @xmath242 & @xmath243 & @xmath244 & @xmath245 & @xmath246 + cl1252 - 2 & @xmath247 & @xmath248 & @xmath249 & @xmath250 & @xmath251 & @xmath252 & @xmath253 & + cl1252 - 3@xmath193 & @xmath254 & @xmath255 & @xmath256 & @xmath257 & @xmath258 & @xmath259 & @xmath260 & + cl1252 - 4@xmath193 & @xmath261 & @xmath262 & @xmath263 & @xmath264 & @xmath265 & @xmath266 & @xmath267 & @xmath268 + cl1252 - 5 & @xmath261 & @xmath269 & @xmath270 & @xmath271 & @xmath109 & @xmath272 & @xmath245 & @xmath273 + cl1252 - 6 & @xmath274 & @xmath275 & @xmath276 & @xmath277 & @xmath278 & @xmath279 & @xmath280 & @xmath281 + cl1252 - 7 & @xmath282 & @xmath283 & @xmath284 & @xmath285 & @xmath286 & @xmath287 & @xmath288 & + cl1252 - 8 & @xmath289 & @xmath290 & @xmath291 & @xmath292 & @xmath293 & @xmath294 & @xmath295 & + cl1252 - 9 & @xmath296 & @xmath297 & @xmath298 & @xmath299 & @xmath300 & @xmath301 & @xmath302 & + cdfs-1 & @xmath303 & @xmath304 & @xmath305 & @xmath306 & @xmath307 & @xmath308 & @xmath309 & @xmath310 + cdfs-2 & @xmath311 & @xmath312 & @xmath313 & @xmath314 & @xmath286 & @xmath315 & @xmath251 & @xmath316 + cdfs-3 & @xmath317 & @xmath318 & @xmath319 & @xmath320 & @xmath321 & @xmath322 & @xmath323 & @xmath324 + cdfs-4 & @xmath311 & @xmath325 & @xmath326 & @xmath327 & @xmath328 & @xmath329 & @xmath330 & @xmath331 + cdfs-5 & @xmath332 & @xmath333 & @xmath334 & @xmath335 & @xmath336 & @xmath337 & @xmath94 & @xmath331 + cdfs-6 & @xmath338 & @xmath339 & @xmath340 & @xmath341 & @xmath258 & @xmath342 & @xmath278 & @xmath343 + cdfs-7 & @xmath344 & @xmath345 & @xmath346 & @xmath347 & @xmath348 & @xmath349 & @xmath309 & @xmath350 + cdfs-8 & @xmath351 & @xmath352 & @xmath353 & @xmath354 & @xmath355 & @xmath356 & @xmath357 & @xmath310 + cdfs-9 & @xmath358 & @xmath359 & @xmath360 & @xmath361 & @xmath362 & @xmath363 & @xmath364 & @xmath365 + cdfs-10 & @xmath366 & @xmath367 & @xmath368 & @xmath369 & @xmath370 & @xmath371 & @xmath307 & @xmath372 + cdfs-11 & @xmath373 & @xmath374 & @xmath375 & @xmath376 & @xmath321 & @xmath377 & @xmath330 & @xmath378 + cdfs-12 & @xmath379 & @xmath380 & @xmath381 & @xmath382 & @xmath362 & @xmath383 & @xmath384 & @xmath385 + cdfs-13 & @xmath386 & @xmath387 & @xmath388 & @xmath389 & @xmath258 & @xmath390 & @xmath391 & @xmath316 + cdfs-14 & @xmath392 & @xmath393 & @xmath394 & @xmath395 & @xmath364 & @xmath396 & @xmath309 & @xmath310 + cdfs-15 & @xmath397 & @xmath398 & @xmath399 & @xmath400 & @xmath401 & @xmath402 & @xmath403 & @xmath404 + cdfs-16 & @xmath405 & @xmath406 & @xmath407 & @xmath408 & @xmath328 & @xmath409 & @xmath251 & @xmath410 + cdfs-17@xmath193 & @xmath411 & @xmath412 & @xmath413 & @xmath414 & @xmath415 & @xmath416 & @xmath258 & @xmath385 + cdfs-18 & @xmath373 & @xmath417 & @xmath418 & @xmath419 & @xmath420 & @xmath421 & @xmath422 & @xmath423 + cdfs-19 & @xmath424 & @xmath425 & @xmath426 & @xmath427 & @xmath428 & @xmath429 & @xmath430 & @xmath431 + cdfs-20 & @xmath432 & @xmath433 & @xmath434 & @xmath435 & @xmath258 & @xmath436 & @xmath403 & @xmath437 + cdfs-21 & @xmath438 & @xmath439 & @xmath440 & @xmath441 & @xmath430 & @xmath442 & @xmath278 & @xmath443 + cdfs-22 & @xmath438 & @xmath444 & @xmath445 & @xmath446 & @xmath447 & @xmath448 & @xmath321 & @xmath449 + cdfs-23 & @xmath450 & @xmath451 & @xmath452 & @xmath453 & @xmath454 & @xmath455 & @xmath357 & @xmath456 + cdfs-24@xmath193 & @xmath457 & @xmath458 & @xmath459 & @xmath460 & @xmath420 & @xmath461 & @xmath286 & @xmath462 + cdfs-25 & @xmath463 & @xmath464 & @xmath465 & @xmath466 & @xmath295 & @xmath467 & @xmath468 & @xmath469 + cdfs-26@xmath193 & @xmath470 & @xmath471 & @xmath472 & @xmath473 & @xmath267 & @xmath474 & @xmath307 & @xmath475 + cdfs-27 & @xmath476 & @xmath477 & @xmath478 & @xmath479 & @xmath480 & @xmath481 & @xmath482 & @xmath483 + cdfs-28@xmath193 & @xmath411 & @xmath484 & @xmath485 & @xmath486 & @xmath487 & @xmath488 & @xmath489 & @xmath490 + cdfs-29 & @xmath476 & @xmath491 & @xmath492 & @xmath493 & @xmath494 & @xmath495 & @xmath480 & @xmath496 +    lccccccc ref . &",
    "@xmath497 & @xmath497 & @xmath497 & @xmath497 & @xmath498 & @xmath499 & @xmath500 + & reported & fitted & high mass & low mass & & & + treu et al .",
    "2001 & @xmath501 & @xmath502 & @xmath503 & @xmath504 & @xmath505 & 0.29 & 19 + van dokkum et al .",
    "2001 & @xmath506 & @xmath507 & @xmath508 & @xmath509 & @xmath510 & 0.42 & 18 + treu et al .",
    "2001 , 2002 & @xmath511 & & & & @xmath512 & 0.38 & 29 + van dokkum et al .",
    "2001 , 2003 & @xmath513 & @xmath514 & @xmath515 & @xmath516 & @xmath517 & 0.56 & 27 + gebhardt et al .",
    "2003 & @xmath518 & @xmath519 & @xmath520 & @xmath521 & @xmath522 & 0.64 & 21 + this paper & @xmath523 & @xmath523 & @xmath524 & @xmath525 & @xmath526 & 0.90 & 27 + rusin et al .",
    "2003 & @xmath527 & & & & & 0.54 & 21 + van de ven et al .",
    "2003 & @xmath528 & @xmath529 & @xmath530 & @xmath531 & @xmath505 & 0.54 & 21 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an analysis of the fundamental plane for a sample of 27 field early - type galaxies in the redshift range @xmath0 in the chandra deep field - south and the field of the background cluster rdcs 1252.9 - 2927 . </S>",
    "<S> sixteen of the galaxies are at @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the galaxies in this sample have high signal - to - noise spectra obtained at the very large telescope and high resolution imaging from the hst advanced camera for surveys . from comparison with lower redshift data , we find that the mean evolution of the mass - to - light ratio ( @xmath2 ) of our sample is @xmath3 , with a large galaxy - to - galaxy scatter </S>",
    "<S> . this value can be too low by 0.3 due to selection effects , resulting in @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> the strong correlation between @xmath2 and rest - frame color indicates that the observed scatter is not due to measurement errors , but due to intrinsic differences between the stellar populations of the galaxies , such that our results can be used as a calibration for converting luminosities of high redshift galaxies into masses . </S>",
    "<S> this pace of evolution is much faster than the evolution of cluster galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> however , we find that the measured @xmath2 evolution strongly depends on galaxy mass . for galaxies with masses </S>",
    "<S> @xmath5 , we find no significant difference between the evolution of field and cluster galaxies : @xmath6 for field galaxies and @xmath7 for cluster galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the relation between the measured @xmath2 evolution and mass is partially due to selection effects , as the galaxies are selected by luminosity , not mass . </S>",
    "<S> however , even when taking selection effects into account , we still find a relation between @xmath2 evolution and mass , which is most likely caused by a lower mean age and a larger intrinsic scatter for low mass galaxies . results from lensing early - type galaxies , which are mass - selected , show a very similar trend with mass . </S>",
    "<S> this , combined with our findings , provides evidence for down - sizing , i.e. , for the proposition that low mass galaxies are younger than high mass galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> previous studies of the rate of evolution of field early - type galaxies found a large range of mutually exclusive values . we show that these differences are largely caused by the differences between fitting methods : most literature studies are consistent with our result and with one another when using the same method . </S>",
    "<S> finally , five of the early - type galaxies in our sample have agn . </S>",
    "<S> there is tentative evidence that the stellar populations in these galaxies are younger than those of galaxies without agn . </S>"
  ]
}