{
  "article_text": [
    "the sun is the only star for which reasonably precise values of the mass , surface radius and luminosity are known . the solar mass @xmath1 is known from planetary motion , with accuracy limited only by the uncertainty in the gravitational constant @xmath2 .",
    "the solar radius can in principle be obtained from direct optical measurement of the solar angular diameter , given the very accurate determinations of the mean distance between the earth and the sun . in solar modeling , the value @xmath3 ( allen 1973 ) has been commonly used .",
    "the models are calibrated to this photospheric radius , in the present paper defined by the point in the atmosphere where the temperature equals the effective temperature , by adjusting some measure of the convective efficacy , such as the mixing length .",
    "recent accurate observations of solar f - mode frequencies from the soi / mdi instrument on the soho satellite ( e.g. kosovichev 1997 ) have raised some doubts over this value of @xmath4 .",
    "the frequencies of these modes are predominantly determined by @xmath5 . by comparing the observed frequencies with frequencies of solar models calibrated to @xmath3 schou ( 1997 ) and antia ( 1998 )",
    "concluded that the actual solar radius was smaller by about @xmath6 than the assumed radius of the model .",
    "other aspects of the modeling of the solar f modes may affect their frequencies at this level ( e.g. campbell & roberts 1989 ; murawski & roberts 1993 ; ghosh , antia & chitre 1995 ) .",
    "thus it is obviously important to obtain independent verification of the proposed correction to the solar radius .",
    "there are indeed significant uncertainties associated with the currently adopted radius value .",
    "these are related to the problem of the definition of the solar limb adopted in the radius determinations , and the reduction of the measured value to the photosphere .",
    "it is not clear how the value quoted by allen ( 1973 ) was obtained .",
    "however , it appears that the more recent determinations , which are generally consistent with allen , in most cases refer to the inflection point of the solar limb intensity . according to solar atmospheric models this corresponds to a height of about @xmath6 above the photosphere , thus perhaps accounting for the radius correction inferred from the f - mode frequencies .",
    "the uncertainty in the precise definition of the measured values of the solar radius highlights the need to combine the observations with careful modeling of the quantity that is observed .",
    "here we consider a long series of observations obtained with the high altitude observatory s solar diameter monitor ( brown 1982 ) .",
    "this is based on a definition of the solar limb which minimizes the effect of seeing ( hill , stebbins & oleson 1975 ) . by combining daily data obtained over more than 6 years , extending between solar maximum and solar minimum",
    ", the possible effects of solar activity can be checked .",
    "the analysis of the data is carried out by means of a model of the solar limb intensity , following as closely as possible the actual procedure used in the reduction of the data and testing for the effects of seeing . in this way we have eliminated several of the uncertainties affecting earlier determinations to arrive at what we believe to be an accurate measure of the solar photospheric radius .",
    "the diameter monitor instrument and its associated observing procedures were described in detail by brown ( 1982 ) ; it operated between august 1981 and december 1987 .",
    "it consisted of a meridian - transit telescope arranged to allow the solar image to drift across a fixed detector package each day at local noon . a filter system confined the bandpass of the observed light to a 10 nm band near 800 nm .",
    "the horizontal ( east / west in the sky ) diameter was obtained by timing the passage of the solar limbs across each of two linear detector arrays aligned end - to - end .",
    "each detector pixel subtended 1 in the sky in the direction of the apparent solar motion and 80 in the perpendicular direction .",
    "in addition , the vertical ( north / south in the sky ) diameter was measured , although less precisely . for the purposes of this paper",
    "we shall therefore consider only the horizontal diameter .",
    "an automated guiding system assured that the solar disk transited the detector arrays centrally , so that a true diameter was measured .",
    "each readout of a detector array yielded a sample of the solar limb - darkening function ; by reading the detectors at a 32  hz rate , the instrument obtained samples at intervals comparable to the seeing - change time .",
    "the instrument applied a real - time edge - finding algorithm , and stored the resulting edge positions .",
    "this process was performed for the transits of both west and east solar limbs , so a transit duration could be measured .",
    "ancillary quantities were also measured each day , including seeing and scattered - light parameters .",
    "the edge - finding algorithm used was the finite fourier transform definition ( fftd ) described by hill ( 1975 ) .",
    "the procedure involves forming the convolution of the observed limb - darkening function with a set of weights that are nonzero only within a certain window of width @xmath7 .",
    "the edge was then defined to be the position of the center of the window for which the convolution crossed zero .",
    "the fftd has two important features .",
    "first , by a suitable choice of weights one can eliminate the first - order sensitivity of edge position to seeing , for some chosen width of the seeing point - spread function .",
    "daytime seeing is commonly both poor and variable , and inflection - point definitions of the limb position are highly sensitive to this variability .",
    "second , the fftd depends on a free parameter , namely the window width @xmath7 . applying the fftd to the solar limb - darking function yields diameters @xmath8 approximately equal to @xmath9 where @xmath10 is",
    "the true angular distance between the nearly discontinuous intensity jumps at east and west limbs , and @xmath11 is proportional to the intensity gradient in the last 25 inside the limb , and hence to the vertical temperature gradient in the photosphere above an optical depth of roughly 0.2 . by measuring the diameter over a range of @xmath7 and extrapolating the results to zero window width",
    ", one can obtain a value that is largely independent of changes in the slope of the limb - darkening function .",
    "since this slope proves to vary significantly during the solar cycle , using multiple window widths is necessary to measure the slope and remove its effect from the raw diameter measurements .",
    "= 8.0 cm    data were taken with the diameter monitor on any day for which a successful observation seemed possible ; many of the observations were therefore corrupted by clouds or ( less often ) instrument failures .",
    "accordingly , we used several selection criteria to choose the observations to be used for the analysis , in the end retaining 550 of the original 986 daily measurements , each made with 5 different window widths . finally , we corrected the diameter values for several geometrical sources of systematic error , and projected all measurements to a standard seeing width of 6 , which is the most frequently observed value .",
    "figure 1 shows the unweighted average of these diameter values , reduced to a sun - earth distance of 1 au and plotted against the fftd window width .",
    "also shown are the results of applying the fftd to the seeing - blurred limb - darkening functions derived from two different model solar atmospheres ( see below ) .",
    "the agreement between theory and observation is satisfactory , although residual differences affect the necessary extrapolation to zero @xmath7 , and are a significant source of systematic error .",
    "figure 2 shows the measured time series of diameter measurements @xmath10 ( projected to @xmath12 by linear extrapolation ) and of @xmath11 , averaged over carrington rotation periods of 27.275 days .",
    "the error bars are standard deviations of the mean for each rotation , estimated from the dispersion of the daily measurements within that rotation .",
    "the scatter among the daily diameter measurements is about 0.4 rms , and arises mostly from time - dependent motions of the solar image related to atmospheric seeing .",
    "the diameter was essentially constant throughout the 6.3-year observing period , aside from a possible but poorly - sampled upturn of about 0.1 during 1987 .",
    "the limb - darkening function slope , however , varied with a time scale of a year or more over a total range of about 2.5% , being steeper at solar minimum than at maximum .",
    "we estimate @xmath10 as the unweighted mean of the 550 daily values , with a random error equal to the standard deviation of the mean .",
    "these values are @xmath13    = 8.0 cm",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , the quantity to be measured is the radius of the surface at which the local temperature equals the solar effective temperature . evidently , this radius is related to @xmath10 in eq .",
    "( 2 ) , but the relationship is not a simple one ; it depends upon the radiation transfer in the outer solar atmosphere , and upon the behavior of the fftd limb definition . to infer the correct radius from the observations",
    ", one must use a physically - based model of the solar atmosphere to calculate the emergent intensity as a function of distance from the center of the solar disk , and then compute the location on this brightness profile that would be identified as the edge by the fftd .",
    "we calculated the limb intensity by integrating the equation of transfer along rays through an assumed spherically symmetrical solar atmosphere .",
    "since the observations were carried out in a relatively narrow wavelength region around 800 nm , we considered simply the monochromatic continuum intensity at this wavelength .",
    "we have used two models of the solar atmosphere .",
    "model 1 was kindly computed by rodney medupe with the atlas9 code ( kurucz 1993 ) .",
    "model 2 was obtained as an average of a hydrodynamical simulation of convection in the upper part of the solar convection zone and lower atmosphere , as described by , e.g. , stein & nordlund ( 1989 ) but with updated physics ( trampedach 1997 ) ; the average was performed at constant monochromatic optical depth , at 800 nm .",
    "the opacity was computed from the atlas data in both cases . for model 1",
    "the source function @xmath14 was obtained from the atlas code , and hence allowed for mild departure from lte . for model",
    "2 lte was assumed , so that @xmath15 , the planck function .    to simulate effects of seeing",
    ", we convolved the intensity with a gaussian , with full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) specified in arc  sec and converted to linear distance at 1 au . after this convolution , we integrated the intensities over pixels corresponding to @xmath16 at 1  au , to match the observed intensities .",
    "we folded the pixel - weighted intensities with the fftd weights over the five different windows described in section 2 , and carried out the subsequent analysis to determine the limb position , through extrapolation to zero window width , as for the observations .",
    "the results of applying the observational procedure to the computed pixel - averaged intensities for models 1 and 2 , assuming @xmath17 seeing are shown in fig .",
    "the observed variation of diameter with window width and that calculated from the models agree well , especially for model 1 .",
    "of particular interest are the extrapolations to zero window width , corresponding to the observed limb position measured relative to the nominal photosphere of the models ; we obtain @xmath18 and @xmath19 for models 1 and 2 .",
    "we have tested the sensitivity of the results to various assumptions in the calculation .",
    "replacing the true source function @xmath14 by @xmath20 for model 1 changes the limb position by much less than @xmath21 mm ; thus the assumption of lte in model 2 is not a significant source of error . using an assumed seeing of less than 6 changes the limb position by less than @xmath22 , confirming the insensitivity of the fftd to effects of seeing .",
    "however , the difference between the two models obviously remains a source of some concern .",
    "we adopted the modified iau ( 1976 ) value of 1.4959787066 @xmath23 mm ( astronomical almanac , 1997 ) for the astronomical unit , and adjusted this value by -4.678 mm to account for the mean displacement between the telescope s noontime location and the earth s center , and by + 0.449 mm for the displacement of the sun s center relative to the barycenter of the earth - sun system .",
    "this distance , combined with @xmath10 from eq .",
    "( 2 ) , yields the sun s apparent radius .",
    "applying the model corrections described in the last section , we obtain @xmath24 @xmath25    we estimate the modeling errors to be @xmath26 of the difference between these estimates , or about 0.020 mm . based on the uncertainties in the geometric corrections that were made to the measured radius , we estimate the systematic errors in the measured value to be 0.015 mm , or about twice as large as the random errors . averaging our results for models 1 and 2 , and adding the various error sources in quadrature , we arrive at our final estimate of @xmath27    the inferred solar photospheric radius is smaller by about @xmath28 than the normally used value of @xmath29 ( allen 1976 ) .",
    "a review of recent observations was given by schou ( 1997 ) , concluding that these were consistent with an angular diameter of @xmath30 , corresponding to allen s value of @xmath4 .",
    "this is also consistent with the observed value obtained here ( cf . eq .",
    "however , it appears that the observations considered by schou refer to the inflection point of intensity ( or , in one case , to an fftd determination ) and hence do not contain the correction to photospheric radius .",
    "such a correction , taking into account the observational characteristics , is an essential part of the radius determination .",
    "some confirmation of the reliability of the modeling comes from the comparison in fig . 2 of computed and observed slopes of the limb position as function of the scan widths .",
    "nevertheless , it is striking that , as indicated by the difference between models 1 and 2 , the major uncertainty in @xmath4 appears to come from the modeling .",
    "indeed , it is evident that the real solar atmosphere is substantially more complicated than the one - dimensional model resulting from the atlas code or the mean model obtained from the hydrodynamical simulations",
    ". a more accurate determination of the radius correction can probably be obtained from a detailed calculation of the limb intensity , taking into account the inhomogeneous nature of the relevant layers , on the basis of the simulations .",
    "such an investigation is beyond the scope of the present paper , however .",
    "we find no significant variation in the observed diameter during the observation period ( cf .",
    "2 ) ; annual averages of the radius for the years 1981 to 1987 all agree within their measurement errors of @xmath31 mm .",
    "these limits are substantially smaller than diameter changes reported previously for the same interval of time ( e.g. ulrich & bertello 1995 , laclare _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 ) , but are in agreement with measurements by wittman ( 1997 ) . on the other hand , the limb - position slope shows fairly substantial variations .",
    "we also note that during solar maximum , the daily slope values tended to be highly variable as well as small in magnitude ; this suggests that the long - term variation may result from localized activity - dependent features such as faculae .",
    "it is plausible that the previously inferred variations in solar diameter with solar activity is in fact a reflection of such variations in the limb - darkening slope .",
    "it is interesting that the value of @xmath4 obtained here is somewhat smaller than that inferred from the solar f - mode frequencies , indicating additional contributions to the differences between the observed and model values of these frequencies .",
    "this issue , and the effects of the reduction of the model radius on the helioseismically determined structure of the solar interior will be considered elsewhere .",
    "we note , however , that antia ( 1998 ) and schou ( 1997 ) found significant effects on the helioseismically inferred sound speed from corresponding radius changes .",
    "we are grateful to  .",
    "nordlund , r. f. stein and r. trampedach for providing the averaged hydrodynamical model , to r. medupe for the atlas model and to m. knlker for help with the opacity calculations .",
    "this work was supported in part by the danish national research foundation through its establishment of the theoretical astrophysics center .",
    "allen , c. w. , 1973 .",
    "_ astrophysical quantities _ , 3rd edition , p. 169 athlone press , london .",
    "antia , h. m. , 1998 .",
    "a&a , 330 , 336 astronomical almanac , 1997 .",
    "washington , u.s .",
    "government printing office , p. k6 .",
    "brown , t. m. , elmore , d. f. , lacey , l. & hull , h. , 1982 .",
    "optics , 21 , 3588 campbell , w. r. & roberts , b. , 1989 .",
    "apj , 338 , 538 ghosh , p. , antia , h. m. & chitre , s. m. , 1995 .",
    "apj , 451 , 851 hill , h. a. , stebbins , r. t. & oleson , j. r. , 1975 .",
    "apj , 200 , 484 kosovichev , a. g. , schou , j. , scherrer , p. h. , , 1997 .",
    "solar phys .",
    ", 170 , 43 kurucz , r. l. , 1993 . in",
    "_ peculiar versus normal phenomena in a - type and related stars _ , dworetsky , m. m. , castelli , f. & faraggiana , r. ( eds ) , asp conf .",
    ", 44 , 87 laclare , f. , delmas , c. , coin , j.p . , & irbah , a. 1996 .",
    "solar phys .",
    "166 , 211 murawski , k. & roberts , b. , 1993 .",
    "a&a , 272 , 595 schou , j. , kosovichev , a. g. , goode , p. r. & dziembowski , w. a. , 1997 .",
    "apj , 489 , l197 stein , r. f. & nordlund ,  . , 1989 .",
    "apj , 342 , l95 trampedach , r. , 1997 .",
    "_ convection in stellar atmospheres _ ,",
    "msc thesis , aarhus university .",
    "ulrich , r.k .",
    "& bertello , l. 1995 .",
    "nature 377 , 214 wittman , a.d .",
    "solar phys ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the solar diameter monitor measured the duration of solar meridian transits during the 6 years 1981 to 1987 , spanning the declining half of solar cycle 21 . </S>",
    "<S> we have combined these photoelectric measurements with models of the solar limb - darkening function , deriving a mean value for the solar near - equatorial radius of 695.508 @xmath0 .026 mm . </S>",
    "<S> annual averages of the radius are identical within the measurement error of @xmath0 .037 mm .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1]*#1 ] * </S>"
  ]
}