{
  "article_text": [
    "the rich environment of a star cluster provides an ideal laboratory for the study of self - gravitating systems .",
    "star clusters within our galaxy range in size from loose associations and open clusters , which contain up to tens of thousands of stars , to the large globular clusters which host a million stars or more .",
    "globular clusters are some of the oldest objects known and dynamically they lie in a very interesting regime . compared to the solar neighbourhood the central density of stars is high enough ( a factor of 10 million or more greater in some globular clusters ) that a significant fraction of the cluster stars are likely to experience at least one close encounter with another star during their lifetime . at the opposite end of the scale ,",
    "the size of a globular cluster is small enough , in comparison to a galaxy , that its dynamical relaxation timescale is less than its age .",
    "these combined considerations make a globular cluster an exciting place for a star to reside . as such",
    "we expect the stellar populations of a star cluster , the various classes of stars and binaries , to exhibit a dynamical signature .",
    "in particular , many of the stars contained in the cluster will deviate strongly from the evolutionary paths predicted by standard stellar and binary evolution theory .",
    "this is indeed what we observe : either when pointing the hubble space telescope ( hst ) at the centres of globular clusters or when generating star - by - star models of star cluster evolution .",
    "observational evidence for the modification of stellar populations in star clusters owing to dynamical interactions between the cluster stars is found in many instances ( see bailyn 1995 for a review ) .",
    "a common indicator of this effect is a variation in the radial distribution of a particular stellar sub - population within the cluster .",
    "if , for example , a certain type of exotic star is found primarily in the core of a cluster , where the number density of stars is highest and hence interactions between stars are most likely , this is taken as strong evidence that these stars have a dynamical origin .    blue stragglers ( bss ) are stars burning hydrogen in their cores that , according to their stellar mass , should already have evolved off the main - sequence ( ms ) and past the red giant stage to become white dwarfs ( wds ) : stellar corpses .",
    "somehow these stars have been rejuvenated .",
    "popular theories of the cause of this phenomenon are mass transfer from a companion star in a close binary system or the collision of two ms stars .",
    "hst observations of the dynamically old and metal - poor galactic globular cluster m30 have revealed a number of bss ( guhathakurta et al .",
    "1998 ) . when plotted in a cumulative radial distribution these bss appear concentrated towards the cluster core relative to standard ms stars .",
    "conversely , the population of bright red giants in m30 is depleted in the core .",
    "this suggests that collisions are destroying giants , by ripping off their envelopes and reducing them to wds , and creating bss .",
    "ferraro et al . ( 1999 ) used hst to identify 305 bss in the high density globular cluster m80 .",
    "these are also centrally concentrated with respect to the giants in the cluster and the suggestion is that m80 is being observed at a critical phase in its evolution when stellar interactions are delaying the collapse of the core ( ferraro et al . 1999 ) - leading to the production of collisional bss .",
    "blue stragglers are not the only stars exhibiting enhanced populations in the cores of globular clusters .",
    "x - ray binaries are at least @xmath1 times more abundant in clusters than in the galactic field , and are being found in ever - increasing numbers with the chandra x - ray observatory ( grindlay et al .",
    "millisecond pulsars , including some in binaries or with planets ( damico et al .",
    "2001 ) are prevalent in cluster cores .",
    "cataclysmic binaries in clusters have been predicted and are also being found ( shara et al .",
    "1996 ; grindlay et al .",
    "a few sdb stars have been located and characterized ( moehler et al .",
    "1997 ) .    even though the stellar neighbourhood within an open cluster is less dense than that of a globular cluster it is still capable of producing exotic objects .",
    "the number of bss found in the open cluster m67 is much greater than we would expect if they are simply produced via mass transfer in binaries exhibiting the same distribution of orbital characteristics as binary stars found in the field .",
    "furthermore , these bss have a variety of living arrangements ( leonard 1996 , and references within ) .",
    "some are single while others are found with a companion . in some cases",
    "the bs and the companion star interact in an intimate and regular manner ( short - period circular orbit ) , in other cases the relationship is distant ( long - period orbit ) and may even appear eccentric .",
    "one of the bss is so massive , a super - bs , that it must represent the merger of three stars , and another is observed in an active triple - system , a menage - a - trois ( van den berg et al .",
    "all of this suggests that the bss have varied formation histories and that no one mechanism is responsible for their production ( leonard 1996 ) .",
    "in particular , the presence of a super - bs and of bss in eccentric binaries is not predicted by standard binary evolution and points to dynamical interactions tampering with the destinies of stars .",
    "on a basic dynamical level a star cluster is composed of @xmath0 bodies interacting with each other due to the gravitational force of every other body in the system . the ideal method for following the evolution of such",
    "a system is to integrate directly the @xmath0 individual equations of motion , the @xmath0-body approach .",
    "however , the cost of integrating the cluster for a relaxation - time scales as @xmath2  @xmath0 per force calculation , @xmath3 to integrate @xmath0 bodies for one crossing ( dynamical ) time , and there are of order @xmath0 crossing times per relaxation time  so the method is computationally expensive . as a result",
    "most @xmath0-body simulations performed until recently , although state - of - the - art at the time , have involved a varying number of simplified and unrealistic conditions , such as including only single stars , using only equal - mass stars , neglecting stellar evolution or assuming no external tidal field ( mcmillan , hut & makino 1991 ; heggie & aarseth 1992 ) . performance has been enhanced by the development of improved computational algorithms . for example , the use of individual time - steps ( aarseth 1963 ) enables each star to evolve on its own natural dynamical timescale rather rather than forcing a small time - step on the entire system when only a fraction of the stars may need frequent attention .",
    "quantizing these time - steps into a series of hierarchical levels increases the efficiency of the integration ( mcmillan 1986 ) .",
    "also , regularization techniques have been developed to remove the singularities involved with compact binaries and few - body configurations , as well as to improve the accuracy of the treatment ( mikkola & aarseth 1998 ) .",
    "the very nature of the large-@xmath0 effects which make the @xmath0-body method so computationally expensive can be used to justify the use of statistical algorithms such as the orbit - averaged fokker - planck equation ( hnon 1961 ; giersz 2001 ; joshi , nave , & rasio 2001 ) . in theory the @xmath0-body and fokker - planck methods , when applied to the same initial conditions , should give similar results in the limit of large @xmath0 ( takahashi & portegies zwart 2000 ) .",
    "ultimately the @xmath0-body approach remains the method of choice for creating dynamical models of star clusters as a minimum number of simplifying assumptions are required and it is relatively easy to implement additional realistic features ( see meylan & heggie 1997 for a full discussion ) .",
    "it is also possible to follow the journey made by a particular star as the cluster evolves .",
    "a major impact on the suitability of @xmath0-body methods has been recent advances in computing power , in particular the development of special - purpose hardware .",
    "the grape-4 system became commercially available in 1995 and was designed specifically for high - accuracy simulations of dense stellar systems ( makino & taiji 1998 ) .",
    "it basically acts as a newtonian force accelerator : the host workstation supplies the grape ( gravity pipe ) with the positions , velocities and masses of a list of particles and the grape returns the force and its time derivative for each particle .",
    "a 96-chip grape-4 board operates at a peak speed of @xmath4gflops ( 50 billion floating - point operations per second ) and has enabled production of realistic open cluster models in a reasonable time . to be precise , a simulation of @xmath5 stars with a moderate binary fraction of 10%",
    "could be completed within a week . dealing with binary systems",
    "complicates matters because as far as the grape is concerned it sees binaries solely as the centre - of - mass particle and the integration of the orbits of the stars within each binary system must be dealt with on the host machine .",
    "therefore the inclusion of a large proportion of binaries in a simulation is a potential bottle - neck to the computational performance .",
    "these concerns are non - trivial owing to the fact that upwards of 50% of the stars in any one globular cluster may be binaries and that the majority of these will be primordial ( hut et al .",
    "1992 ) . on the upside",
    "it has been shown by makino & hut ( 1990 ) that the computational cost of primordial binaries becomes ( relatively ) less of a problem when @xmath0 is increased .",
    "the next generation machine , the grape-6 ( makino 2001 ) , became available in early 2001 and has provided a further leap forward for @xmath0-body methods .",
    "a single grape-6 chip has an operating speed of @xmath6gflops so that a 32-chip board represents @xmath7tflops of computing power .",
    "the peak speed of grape-6 is up to 100 times faster than grape-4 .",
    "this exciting development means that models of @xmath8 stars can be simulated from formation to death , i.e. @xmath9gyr , in a week of wall - clock time . as such",
    ", it is now possible to produce realistic @xmath0-body models of small globular clusters for the first time .",
    "the largest galactic globular clusters are still out of reach for a single grape-6 board . however , at the university of tokyo , where the grape project is based , work is underway to link many grape-6 boards in parallel and simulate systems containing upwards of a hundred - thousand stars . to tackle the million body problem we will have to wait for the grape-8 which is expected to run at petaflops speed .    the aarseth nbody4 code ( aarseth 1999 ) has been developed to investigate the evolution of star clusters utilising the grape hardware .",
    "importantly nbody4 incorporates algorithms for the detailed treatment of stellar evolution and the full range of possible interactions within binary stars ( hurley et al .",
    "2001 , and references within ) .",
    "in the dense environment of a star cluster it is possible for the orbital parameters of a binary to be significantly perturbed owing to close encounters with nearby stars . as a result",
    "the orbit may even become chaotic ( mardling & aarseth 2001 ) .",
    "collisions may occur and binaries can form as a result of tidal capture ( fabian , pringle & rees 1975 ) .",
    "gravitational encounters between single stars and binaries , or binary - binary encounters , can lead to an exchange interaction , where one star finds it energetically preferable to leave its current partner and become bound to another ( heggie 1975 ; heggie & hut 2002 ) .",
    "other possible outcomes of these _ scattering _ incidents include the destruction of the one ( or two ) binary system(s ) to leave only single stars or formation of a triple system .",
    "rather than being instantaneous events , exchange interactions often involve a period of indecisiveness where stars swap between partners in quick succession before choosing a companion to remain with ( see mcmillan , hut & makino 1991 for an early example of such behaviour ) .",
    "all these processes are accounted for in nbody4 .",
    "this allows the generation and interaction of the full range of stellar populations possible .",
    "a similar effort is represented by the kira code ( portegies zwart et al .",
    "2001b ) which also takes advantage of the grape hardware .",
    "the use of @xmath0-body codes on the grape hardware has already given rise to a number of important results regarding star cluster evolution .",
    "aspects studied include the effect of dynamical evolution on the mass - functions of globular clusters ( vesperini & heggie 1997 ) , the effect of the galactic tidal field on the evolution of star clusters ( giersz & heggie 1997 ) , and the evolution of cluster morphology ( boily , clarke & murray 1999 ) .",
    "the dependence of cluster lifetimes on their size and the tidal field in which they reside was recently investigated by baumgardt ( 2001 ) who found that the lifetimes do _ not _ scale with the relaxation timescale , as had previously been assumed .",
    "portegies zwart et al ( 2001a ) simulated the evolution and disruption of young compact star clusters near the galactic centre and discussed the likelihood of their being observed .",
    "hurley et al . ( 2001 ) demonstrated the effectiveness of the cluster environment in modifying the nature of the stars it contains by modelling the bs population of m67 .",
    "not only was the number of bss produced twice that expected from standard binary evolution but formation paths for all the various types observed in m67 were created .",
    "the models of young galactic open clusters performed by portegies zwart et al .",
    "( 2001b ) also exhibited strong dynamical activity .",
    "these studies have highlighted the importance of combining dynamics with stellar evolution .    within each of these open cluster size simulations there exist numerous interactions between stars that are often glossed over when discussing the simulation result .",
    "however , each of these interactions is interesting in its own right and we now take the opportunity to illustrate some of these fascinating tales in detail .      the first documentation of the behaviour of a particular star in a @xmath0-body simulation involving stellar evolution , and the motivation for this paper , was presented by hurley et al .",
    "this star began life as a @xmath10 single star .",
    "four exchange interactions and one tidal capture event later , involving a total of four collisions within eccentric binaries , its mass ( after @xmath11myr of cluster evolution ) had grown to @xmath12 , an amazing factor of six greater than the ms turn - off mass at that time . at various intervening points in the evolution",
    "this star would have been observed as a single super - bs , a super - bs in a binary , a bs in an eccentric binary , or a bs in a triple system . _",
    "what we want to emphasise here is that such promiscuous behaviour is not at all rare .",
    "_    consider a similar case involving bs formation that arose in a recent simulation on grape-6 aimed at modelling the evolution of planetary systems in star clusters ( hurley & shara 2002 ) . at the beginning of the simulation",
    "the star of interest had a mass of @xmath13 and was in a primordial binary with a period of @xmath14yr and eccentricity @xmath15 .",
    "the companion star had a mass of @xmath16 and the binary was situated just beyond the cluster half - mass radius .",
    "the metallicity of the stars in this simulation was @xmath17 .",
    "after @xmath18myr the orbital parameters of this wide binary had been reduced to @xmath19yr and @xmath20 owing to perturbations resulting from weak gravitational encounters with nearby stars . at @xmath21myr",
    "the binary had drifted inside the cluster half - mass radius and was involved in an exchange interaction with a @xmath22 star . subsequently the low - mass interloper was ejected from the 3-body system leaving the original binary intact . following this tumultuous but short - lived relationship",
    ", the binary partners remained quietly monogamous until becoming involved in a 5-body interaction at @xmath23myr , by which time the binary had sunk further towards the cluster centre , through mass segregation , lying slightly outside of the core .",
    "the other participants in this encounter were a @xmath24 single star and a binary with component masses of @xmath25 and @xmath26 and @xmath27yr .",
    "initially the @xmath16 star was ejected , destroying the primordial binary , and a quasi - stable 4-body system remained . shortly afterwards",
    "the @xmath26 star was also ejected and the @xmath13 and @xmath24 stars formed a binary with @xmath28yr and @xmath29 in a triple system with the @xmath30 star .",
    "the presence of the third body gradually drove the eccentricity of the inner binary up to 0.99 at which point ( @xmath31myr ) the two ms stars collided to form a @xmath32 bs which did not remain bound to the third star . figure  [ f : fig1 ]",
    "documents this interaction , and all subsequent interactions involving the initially @xmath13 star , in terms of the masses of the stars involved .",
    "we note that the @xmath16 star actually escaped from the cluster , with a velocity exceeding the stellar velocity dispersion by a factor of three , approximately @xmath33myr after it was removed from its primordial companion - but as a direct result of the energy exchanged in that interaction .",
    "the bs ( now significantly more massive than the average cluster star ) quickly sank inside the core of the cluster where , at @xmath34myr , it was involved in an exchange interaction with a @xmath35 single star and a primordial binary . the single star , itself a bs formed via the coalescence of two ms stars in a semi - detached binary , formed a bound pair with the original bs .",
    "this bs - bs binary had a period of @xmath36yr and an eccentricity of 0.72 .",
    "its orbit was perturbed by interactions with a @xmath37 star at @xmath38myr and with a @xmath39 star at @xmath40myr which increased the eccentricity to 0.98 .",
    "the orbit then became chaotic and at @xmath41myr the bss collided to form a @xmath42 super - bs . at @xmath43myr",
    "the super - bs exchanged itself into a binary comprising a @xmath44 and a @xmath45 star and left bound to the more massive of the two , also a bs .",
    "then , in a final showdown , this binary formed a 4-body system with another binary and at @xmath46myr the @xmath42 super - bs and the @xmath45 bs collided to form a @xmath47 super - bs .",
    "being as massive as it was , almost five times greater than the ms turn - off mass at the time , this promiscuous star quickly evolved off the ms and shortly afterwards lost its envelope on the asymptotic giant branch to become an oxygen - neon - wd .",
    "this lurid example , and the one presented by hurley et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , highlight an important point . though the possibility of any particular star becoming a bs as a result of a dynamical encounter is quite random ,",
    "_ once a star does become a bs and hence one of the most massive stars in the cluster , subsequent interactions are almost inevitable .",
    "_ they also show that if a binary emerges from the indiscriminate and short - lived relationship that is an exchange interaction it will more often than not comprise the two most massive stars involved in the interaction , i.e. in this society it is desirable to be heavy .    in a typical grape-6 simulation with @xmath48 , initially comprised of @xmath49 single stars and @xmath50 binaries , where the evolution was followed for @xmath51gyr ,",
    "the number of exchange interactions observed was @xmath52 . these involved 730 different stars with some stars taking part in multiple interactions .",
    "the number of stars that swapped partner once was 494 , twice was 105 , three times was 48 , four times was 27 , and 14 stars swapped partner on five occasions .",
    "amongst these were a number of re - marriages where a `` star changed its mind '' and returned to its original partner .",
    "the component stars of one particularly flirtatious binary were actually involved in 22 exchange interactions , including 10 re - marriages .    the total number of merger events observed during the entire simulation was 104 . of these ,",
    "mass transfer in a primordial binary accounted for 46 cases while 13 mergers came from mass transfer in a binary formed via an exchange interaction .",
    "the remainder were the result of collisions in eccentric binaries : 21 in primordial systems where the orbit was strongly perturbed by nearby stars .",
    "bs formation as a result of a hyperbolic collision is rare in simulations of open clusters but does occur .",
    "one example involved a @xmath26 star that began life in the core of the cluster and slowly drifted out to the half - mass radius , owing to mass - segregation , where at @xmath53myr it collided with a @xmath54 star .",
    "the relative velocity of the two stars at infinity was @xmath55 and the collison product was assumed to be a fully - mixed @xmath56 ms star .",
    "when the cluster was @xmath57myr old this star first appeared as a bs and by @xmath58myr , when the simulation ended , it had sunk inside the cluster core .",
    "the incidence of direct collisions will be greater in the higher density conditions of a globular cluster simulation . however , these are abrupt encounters and much less interesting than the sociable nature of exchange interactions and the binary systems they produce .",
    "the presence of binaries also acts to magnify the chance of collisions because in the case of a binary it is the semi - major axis that sets the relevant cross - section for collision , rather than the stellar radius which is used in the case of single stars .",
    "here we have to be careful with the terminology used .",
    "if a binary is involved in a hyperbolic _ interaction _ any _ collision _ that results will occur in a two - step process and will not be _ direct _ : firstly a ( resonant ) capture may produce a hierarchical system and subsequently a collision can occur within this system .",
    "interesting cases of stellar interactions are not limited to bs formation alone .",
    "consider the case of the primordial binary comprised of ms stars of 0.6 and @xmath59 with an eccentricity of 0.42 and an orbital period of @xmath60yr that was part of the same grape-6 simulation mentioned above .",
    "residing in the core of the cluster this binary suffered a series of weak perturbations to its orbit which drove the eccentricity up to 0.95 .",
    "after the @xmath59 star became a sub - giant it was involved in two exchange interactions , finally settling into a @xmath61yr orbit with eccentricity of 0.9 about a @xmath62 ms star after @xmath63myr of evolution .",
    "the sub - giant then evolved onto the giant branch ( gb ) and by @xmath64myr tidal forces within the binary had circularized the orbit resulting in a separation of @xmath65 . while on the gb the @xmath59 star filled its roche - lobe and a phase of common - envelope evolution began .",
    "this stripped the envelope of the giant and left a helium - wd and a ms star separated by @xmath66 .",
    "the ms star subsequently evolved to the gb , filled its roche - lobe , and another common - envelope event ensued , resulting in a pair of 0.4 and @xmath67 helium - wds with an orbital period of @xmath68d .",
    "owing to gravitational radiation this system would easily merge within @xmath69yr to possibly form a blue sub - dwarf star ( iben 1990 ) , i.e. a helium - burning object with a thin hydrogen envelope .",
    "the final case that we choose to highlight involves the formation of a thorne - ytkow object ( tzo , thorne & ytkow 1977 ) .",
    "although tzos have not been directly observed , they are thought to result from stellar mergers involving either a neutron star or a black hole , where the merger product is unstable and rapidly ejects all the material involved other than the neutron star or black hole , which remains .",
    "the system of interest began as a primordial binary with component masses @xmath70 and @xmath71 , an eccentricity of 0.87 and a period of @xmath72d .",
    "after @xmath73myr of evolution the orbital period had been reduced to @xmath74d owing to perturbations that had _ hardened _ this already _ hard _ binary .",
    "a few myr later the more massive of the two stars evolved onto the sub - giant branch and , as the region of convection within its envelope grew , tidal forces began to circularize the orbit . at @xmath75myr",
    "the primary star filled its roche - lobe and began transferring mass to the companion .",
    "when the primary evolved onto the giant branch the rate of mass transfer accelerated so that the giant quickly overfilled the roche - lobes of both stars to leave the @xmath76 helium core of the giant and the @xmath77 ms star contained within a common - envelope .",
    "orbital friction then caused these two objects to spiral towards each other and the energy released was enough to drive off the envelope before they coalesced .",
    "this left a naked helium star and a ms star in a circular orbit with a @xmath78d period .",
    "the helium star then evolved onto the helium gb and filled its roche - lobe .",
    "a period of stable mass transfer ensued until the envelope of the helium star had been removed and it became a @xmath79 wd of oxygen - neon composition .",
    "the orbital period at that stage was @xmath33d and the companion star was now a @xmath80 bs . at @xmath81myr",
    "the bs evolved off the ms onto the sub - giant branch and filled its roche - lobe which lead to another common - envelope event and the formation of a naked helium star in an orbit of @xmath82d with the oxygen - neon wd .",
    "when this helium star evolved onto the helium gb it also filled its roche - lobe and began transferring mass to the wd .",
    "it was assumed that the helium - rich material would be accepted by the wd and steadily burnt on its surface .",
    "this quickly caused the mass of the wd to reach the critical chandrasekhar mass , @xmath83 , at which point it underwent an accretion - induced collapse to form a neutron star .",
    "the neutron star remained bound to the helium giant with an orbital period of @xmath84d . at @xmath85myr",
    "the helium giant again filled its roche - lobe which lead to a third phase of common - envelope evolution and the formation of a tzo .    in this",
    "particular instance dynamical interactions were not crucial to the outcome of the evolution : without perturbations to its orbit this binary would still have formed a tzo .",
    "however , we do see examples of similar systems being disrupted by encounters with other stars in the cluster so that the ultimate fate of the system is altered .",
    "such occurences include the orbit being so strongly perturbed that the stars merge while both are on the ms .",
    "alternatively a perturbation takes place just prior to the onset of a common - envelope phase , in a way that leads to coalescence of the two stars , rather than the formation of a close binary .",
    "the examples given here represent only a small fraction of the wealth of information regarding stellar interactions and populations that is generated by realistic @xmath0-body simulations of star clusters .",
    "much of this information is quickly discarded if it is not of direct relevance to the initial purpose of that particular simulation . with grape-6 increasing the @xmath0 that can be simulated in a reasonable timeframe",
    "there exists a distinct possibility that those working in the @xmath0-body field will rapidly be overwhelmed with data .",
    "therefore , the creation of an archive for the results of @xmath0-body simulations that is accessable to all members of the scientific community is crucial ( see teuben et al .",
    "2002 for a related discussion ) .",
    "this database will complement the hst stellar populations archive ( zurek : hst proposal ar-9225 ) currently under construction at the american museum of natural history .",
    "it should also be noted that these interactions are not simply interesting : they have wide reaching implications .",
    "take , for example , the case of type ia supernovae which are important standard candles in cosmology and have recently been used to demonstrate that the expansion of the universe is accelerating ( perlmutter et al . 1999 ) .",
    "short - period double - degenerate binaries in which the component wds have a combined mass in excess of the critical chandrasekhar mass and will merge within a hubble time are thought to be possible progenitors of type ia supernovae .",
    "close inspection of the results of @xmath0-body simulations performed on grape-6 have shown that the production rate of these systems is remarkably enhanced - over an order of magnitude in open clusters and likely much more in globulars - relative to the field ( shara & hurley 2002 ) .",
    "the introduction of the grape-6 hardware , coupled with @xmath0-body codes that have the capability to produce realistic cluster models , places the astrophysicist in the position of knowledgeable voyeur .",
    "an exciting aspect of this is the capability to investigate and understand the range of stellar populations that are observed , and how these are affected by dynamical interactions between cluster stars .",
    "as we move to full utilization of the grape-6 , and the simulation of globular clusters , the fascinating tales of promiscuous stars in clusters will become very graphic indeed !",
    "we are extremely grateful to piet hut and jun makino for their efforts in instigating and maintaining the grape program .",
    "immense gratitude is extended to sverre aarseth for his tireless work in producing state - of - the - art @xmath0-body codes .",
    "we also thank peter eggleton , rosemary mardling , steve mcmillan , seppo mikkola , onno pols and christopher tout for important contributions made to the development of realistic @xmath0-body codes .",
    "thanks to simon portegies zwart and david zurek for many stimulating discussions relating to the interactions of stars in clusters , and to the referee ( piet hut ) for a number of highly constructive suggestions .",
    "doug ellis generous support has enabled amnh to purchase new grape-6 boards and we are most grateful to him .",
    "aarseth , s.j .",
    "1963 , , 126 , 223 aarseth , s.j . 1999 , , 111 , 1333 bailyn , c.d .",
    "1995 , , 33 , 133 baumgardt , h. 2001 , , 325 , 1323 boily , c.m . ,",
    "clarke , c.j . , & murray , s.d .",
    "1999 , , 302 , 399 damico , n. , lyne , a.g . ,",
    "manchester , r.n . ,",
    "possenti , a. , & camilo , f. 2001 , , 548 , l171 fabian , a.c . ,",
    "pringle , j.e .",
    ", & rees , m.j .",
    "1975 , , 172 , 15 ferraro , f.r .",
    ", paltrinieri , b. , rood , r.t . , & dorman , b. 1999 , , 522 , 983 giersz , m. 2001 , , 324 , 218 giersz , m. , & heggie , d.c .",
    "1997 , , 286 , 709 grindlay , j.e . , heinke , c. , edmonds , p.d . , & murray , s.s .",
    "2001 , science , 292 , 2290 guhathakurta , p. , webster , z.t .",
    ", yanny , b. , schneider , d.p . , & bahcall , j.n .",
    "1998 , , 116 , 1757 heggie , d.c . 1975 , , 173 , 729 heggie , d.c . , & aarseth , s.j .",
    "1992 , , 257 , 513 heggie , d.c .",
    ", & hut , p. 2002",
    ", the gravitational million - body problem ( cambridge university press ) , in press hnon , m. 1961 , ann . dastrophys . , 24 , 369 hurley , j. r. , tout , c. a. , aarseth , s. j. , & pols , o.r .",
    "2001 , , 323 , 630 hurley , j. r. , & shara , m.m .",
    "2002 , , in press ( astro - ph/0108350 ) hut , p. , mcmillan , s. , goodman , j. , mateo , m. , phinney , e.s . , pryor , c. , richer , h.b . , verbunt , f. , & weinberg , m. 1992 , , 104 , 981 iben , i.jr .",
    "1990 , , 353 , 215 joshi , k.j . , nave , c.p .",
    ", & rasio , f.a .",
    "2001 , , 550 , 691 leonard , p.j.t . 1996 , apj , 470 , 521 makino , j. , & hut , p. 1990",
    ", , 365 , 208 makino , j. , & taiji , m. 1998 , scientific simulations with special - purpose computers  the grape systems ( new york : wiley ) makino , j. 2001 , in asp conf .",
    "xx , stellar collisions , ed .",
    "m. m. shara ( san francisco : asp ) , in press mardling , r.a . , &",
    "aarseth , s.j .",
    "2001 , , 321 , 398 mcmillan , s.l.w .",
    "1996 , in the use of supercomputers in stellar dynamics , ed .",
    "p. hut & s.l.w .",
    "mcmillan ( springer - verlag : berlin ) , 156 mcmillan , s.l.w . , hut , p. , & makino , j. 1991 , , 372 , 111 meylan , g. , & heggie , d. 1997 , , 8 , 1 mikkola , s. , & aarseth , s.j . 1998 , new astronomy , 3 , 309 moehler , s. , heber , u. , & durell , p.r .",
    "1997 , , 317 , 83 perlmutter , s. , et al .",
    "1999 , , 517 , 565 portegies zwart , s.f . ,",
    "makino , j. , mcmillan , s.l.w .",
    ", & hut , p. 2001a",
    ", , 546 , l101 portegies zwart , s.f . ,",
    "mcmillan , s.l.w . , hut , p. , & makino , j. 2001b , , 321 , 199 shara , m.m . , bergeron , l.e . ,",
    "gilliland , r.l . ,",
    "saha , a. , & petro , l. 1996 , , 471 , 804 shara , m.m . , & hurley , j. r. 2002 , , submitted takahashi , k. , & portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "2000 , , 535 , 759 teuben , p. , deyoung , d. , hut , p. , levy , s. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s. , portegies zwart , s. , & slavin , s. 2002 , theory in a virtual observatory , to appear in the proceedings of the ninth adass conference ( astro - ph/0111478 ) thorne k.s . , &",
    "ytkow a.n .",
    "1977 , , 212 , 832 van den berg , m. , orosz , j. , verbunt , f. , & stassun , k. 2001 , , 375 , 375 vesperini , e. , & heggie , d.c .",
    "1997 , , 289 , 898"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the recent availability of special purpose computers designed for calculating gravitational interactions of @xmath0-bodies at extremely high speed has provided the means to model globular clusters on a star - by - star basis for the first time . by endeavouring to make the @xmath0-body codes that operate on these machines as realistic as possible , the addition of stellar evolution being one example , </S>",
    "<S> much is being learnt about the interaction between the star cluster itself and the stars it contains . </S>",
    "<S> a fascinating aspect of this research is the ability to follow the orbits of individual stars in detail and to document the formation of observed exotic systems . </S>",
    "<S> this has revealed that many stars within a star cluster lead wildly promiscuous lives , interacting , often intimately and in rapid succession , with a variety of neighbours . </S>"
  ]
}