{
  "article_text": [
    "in addition to their usual spherical atmospheres , giant planets have highly extended , often toroidal atmospheres that are the gaseous envelopes of material orbiting the planet as rings or satellites . at jupiter and saturn",
    "these atmospheres are produced by the ejection of atoms and molecules from their moons and rings by out - gassing , volcanism , sputtering , and meteoroid bombardment .",
    "such atmospheres are also likely to be present on giant , extrasolar planets .",
    "the sodium cloud at jupiter , associated with its moon io , was the first observation of such an extended atmosphere @xcite . because of its considerable tidal",
    "stressing , io is volcanically active ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) producing an atmosphere that is stripped at a rate of about @xmath0  gr  s@xmath1 by the plasma trapped in jupiter s magnetosphere @xcite , a process often called atmospheric sputtering @xcite .",
    "the ejected neutrals are eventually ionized adding to the trapped plasma in a self - limiting feedback process @xcite .",
    "the neutral cloud and its ionized component are confined to a region around io s orbit but have a radial scale comparable to the size of jupiter ( fig .",
    "observations using the hubble space telescope have shown that saturn has a similar , extended , roughly toroidal atmosphere , composed primarily of water products @xcite . in this case",
    "it is the gaseous envelope of a disk of icy debris ( fig .",
    "1b ) apparently produced by venting from the icy moon enceladus @xcite .",
    "this atmosphere is also sustained by sputtering of the ice grains in saturn s tenuous e - ring @xcite and has an extended component formed by charge exchange @xcite .",
    "saturn s main rings also have a toroidal atmosphere of molecular oxygen produced by the decomposition of ice by the solar uv @xcite .",
    "associated with these extended neutral atmospheres are magnetically confined plasmas that are representative of the source material ( fig .",
    "the toroidal atmospheres observed around jupiter and saturn are expected to be present in other planetary systems and to be ubiquitous as the gaseous envelopes of satellites and grains in the early epochs of planet formation .",
    "these extended atmospheres should be more readily detected than the moons or rings of a giant extrasolar planet .",
    "such a detection would , therefore , provide a means for determining the presence and the composition of satellites or rings orbiting an extrasolar planet .",
    "the possibility of detecting gas from a star - grazing comet orbiting an extrasolar body has been considered but not yet observed @xcite . however , sodium @xcite , hydrogen , oxygen , and carbon @xcite have been seen in absorption in the atmosphere of the jupiter - sized extrasolar planet hd  209458b .    in this paper",
    "we first review the properties of the toroidal atmospheres of jupiter and saturn , and use the observations of the atmosphere of hd 209458b as a measure of the amount of absorbing material that can be detected in a transit .",
    "we then examine under what circumstances giant toroidal atmospheres , produced by orbiting moons or ring particles , might be observed around an extrasolar planet .",
    "jupiter s closest moon io has lost most of its early volatile inventory , but it has a thin , volcanically produced atmosphere composed primarily of so@xmath2 with other trace gases ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) . the atmosphere is stripped by interaction with ions trapped in jupiter s magnetosphere to produce an extended toroidal atmosphere of neutral atoms and ions . due to its strong resonance fluorescence in the visible ,",
    "sodium was the first species detected in this extended atmosphere @xcite . the cloud of escaping sodium shown in fig .  1a co - orbits with io and is now nearly continuously imaged from earth .",
    "using the stripping rate of sodium @xmath3  atoms  s@xmath1 and the average electron impact lifetime @xmath42  hr , this jupiter - sized cloud contains @xmath5 atoms ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the sodium that is ionized in this cloud is confined by the local magnetic fields and contributes to the ambient plasma .",
    "it is eventually lost , primarily by charge exchange , producing energetic neutrals that form a giant sodium nebula with a radial extent of @xmath4500 jupiter radii ( @xmath6 ) containing @xmath410@xmath7 atoms @xcite .",
    "the total rate of stripping from io s atmosphere is more than 100 times that for sodium .",
    "the principal species ejected are sulfur and oxygen , which have longer lifetimes than sodium .",
    "this material also orbits jupiter forming a giant torus of neutrals with a density and spatial distribution determined primarily by electron impact ionization .",
    "the neutral sulfur and oxygen tori so formed have cross sectional areas comparable to jupiter s and contain @xmath8 atoms and @xmath9 atoms @xcite . because io is embedded deeply in jupiter s magnetic field , the ionized plasma formed from the orbiting neutrals is also confined , leading to peak ion densities @xmath10  @xmath11 ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this toroidal plasma has been imaged in emission in lines of , , and .",
    "the spatial distribution of the 6731  emission is shown in fig .",
    "since the plasma lifetimes are much longer than the neutral lifetimes , the plasma torus has a significantly larger total content than the neutral torus @xmath12 ions , with an average column density @xmath13  @xmath14 and a cross sectional area comparable to jupiter s .",
    "the torus of ejected material from the surface of jupiter s moon europa has a comparable content of water products from europa s icy surface @xcite .",
    "the more distant giant planet saturn has a small icy moon enceladus that is ejecting ice grains @xcite and gas , primarily h@xmath2o with trace carbon and nitrogen species @xcite .",
    "the orbiting grains make up saturn s tenuous e - ring that extends from @xmath43 to 8 saturn radii ( @xmath15 ) @xcite .",
    "the gas ejected from enceladus and the sputtering of the e - ring grains create a large toroidal atmosphere of h@xmath2o @xcite and its products , initially detected by the hubble space telescope ( fig .  1b , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this atmosphere also has a toroidal ionized plasma , composed principally of h@xmath16o@xmath17 , h@xmath2o@xmath17 , oh@xmath17 , o@xmath17 and h@xmath17 @xcite .",
    "however , unlike the io torus , the average neutral density is larger than the ion density .",
    "the neutral toroidal cloud contains @xmath18 oh molecules and comparable amounts of h@xmath2o , o , and h , with an average line of sight column density @xmath19  @xmath14 over a region of radius @xmath20  @xmath15 ( see fig .",
    "saturn s giant moon titan also produces a toroidal cloud @xcite of nitrogen , methane , and hydrogen .",
    "because it resides in saturn s @xmath21 magnetosphere , the atmospheric stripping rate is low @xcite and the ions formed are rapidly lost down the magneto - tail .",
    "therefore , due to its location in the magnetosphere , titan s toroidal cloud is not nearly as robust as the water product torus in the inner magnetosphere .",
    "although the atmospheres described above were detected in emission , we consider the likelihood of seeing such features in absorption associated with a giant planet transiting the disk of its parent star .",
    "however , we first consider the observations of the hd  209458b transit as an example of the size of the absorbing column of gas that can be detected .",
    "sodium has been observed at the extrasolar planet hd  209458b in absorption when the planet crosses the disk of its parent star @xcite .",
    "this sodium is likely to be a component of the planet s gravitationally bound atmosphere ( e.g. , charbonneau et al .",
    "2002 , 2006 ) or its escaping atmosphere ( vidal - madjar et al . 2004 ) .",
    "the sodium absorption feature detected corresponds to a small change in intensity ( @xmath22% ) at the 5890 , 5896    doublet @xcite , and we use this to estimate the minimum number of sodium atoms in a cloud that are needed to produce an absorption feature at this level , realizing that new techniques will soon be available ( e.g. , @xcite ) . ignoring the effects of the background stellar spectrum",
    ", the absorption signal can be expressed as @xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the equivalent width and @xmath25 is the observing width @xmath26   . in the optically thin , linear absorption regime ,",
    "the equivalent width is given by the expression @xmath27   , where @xmath28 is the average column density of the absorbing species and @xmath29 is the oscillator strength : 0.641 and 0.320 for the 5890  and 5895  lines , respectively @xcite .",
    "the minimum , average column density , n@xmath30 , associated with this feature is therefore @xmath31  @xmath14 , spread over the area of the stellar disk ( @xmath32  @xmath33 ) .",
    "if the sodium is a component of the planet s atmosphere , the absorbing area is very small , so that the actual column density is large and the line is heavily saturated . if , however , the sodium were in an extended cloud of radius one or a few planet radii , the actual attenuating column density would be @xmath34@xmath35  @xmath14 .",
    "the total minimum number of sodium atoms in the linear regime is @xmath36 .",
    "sodium is , however , a trace gas , and there are much larger amounts of more abundant species .",
    "@xcite observed , , and at hd  209458b by detecting a reduction in the parent star s emission features in the uv during transit .",
    "they find that their results can be understood if the absorbing material has a velocity dispersion comparable to or greater than the widths of the stellar lines ( @xmath37  km  s@xmath1 and 25  km  s@xmath1 for and , respectively ) and conclude that the absorbing species are components of an escaping atmosphere . for the observations of the 1302   line , vidal - madjar et al.show that the collisionally excited 1304    and 1306    lines also contribute to the absorption . for simplicity",
    "we assume that the lines contribute equally to the absorption and that the band depth of @xmath40.13 applies to each one .",
    "a rough lower limit to the column of absorbing material can be made by writing the average absorption cross section as @xmath38 with a @xmath39 0.027 @xmath40 . using 15  km  s@xmath1 for the stellar line widths , @xmath41  s@xmath1 and @xmath42 @xcite , so that @xmath43 @xmath33 .",
    "the number of absorbing atoms in each sub - level is then @xmath44 , where @xmath45 is the area of the stellardisk , which gives @xmath46 atoms .",
    "if they have a radial distribution of a few planet radii , the corresponding column density is @xmath410@xmath47 @xmath14 . in a low density",
    "extended atmosphere , the sub levels above the ground state will not be excited , so the single line values are appropriate .",
    "similarly , for the observations of the 1335    line , the excited 1336    line also contributes . treating this in the same way , with a band depth of @xmath40.075 and @xmath48 @xmath39 0.12 @xcite , implies @xmath49  @xmath33 and a total content @xmath50 ions , which gives a similar column density .",
    "we expect that extended atmospheres like those observed around jupiter and saturn are present around gas giants in other planetary systems and are likely to be ubiquitous as the gaseous envelopes of satellites and grains in the early epochs of planet formation .",
    "the toroidal gas clouds around jupiter and saturn are seen in emission , excited by resonance fluorescence or electron impact . because of the extremely low density , the atoms and ions are typically in the ground state . in an extrasolar planetary system these extended atmospheres",
    "could give rise to absorption spectra when the planet transits the disk of the star .    in order to assess the feasibility of observing the extended atmospheres of exoplanets we compare the content of these atmospheres in jupiter and saturn with the minimum content needed to account for the absorption features measured for hd  209458b as it transits its parent star .",
    "the minimum number of atoms that contribute to the absorption feature detected at hd  209458b , @xmath51 , is approximately two orders of magnitude larger than that in the sodium cloud immediately surrounding io .",
    "it is , however , fortuitously close to the number of atoms in the very extended jovian sodium nebula .",
    "similarly the minimum amount of at hd  209458b , @xmath52 atoms , is about two orders of magnitude larger than the content in io s torus , but it is comparable to the amount of oxygen containing species in saturn s more substantial neutral torus . in addition , the _",
    "ionized _ minimum carbon content at hd  209458b @xmath53 ions , is comparable to the sulfur and oxygen @xmath54 content in the io plasma torus .",
    "therefore , detection of sulfur ions at this level during a planet transit could be evidence for the presence of an io - like moon .",
    "thus the ion or neutral content of a toroidal atmosphere , produced by a satellite or ring about a transiting extrasolar planet , could be sufficient to give a detectable absorption feature .",
    "the steady state densities formed in the vicinity of a transiting giant planet are dependent on a number of different factors , and we consider below whether there are situations in which toroidal atmospheres like those around jupiter or saturn might be seen around a giant planet transiting its parent star .",
    "the possibility of observing a toroidal atmosphere in absorption when a giant planet transits the disk of its parent star is determined not only by the amount of material and the dimensions of the cloud , but also by the geometry of the observation .",
    "the orbital period of planet hd  209458b is short , 3.5 days .",
    "its orbital plane cuts across our line of sight to the parent star , and repeated transits have been observed ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a planet with an orbital plane that is randomly oriented with respect to the line of sight to the star will have a probability @xmath55 of transiting the disk of its star , where r@xmath56 is the radius of the star and @xmath57 is the radius of the planet s orbit , which we assume to be circular @xcite .",
    "small orbital radii are therefore favored for observation .",
    "the probability that a planet like hd  209458b would be seen transiting the disk of its parent star is @xmath40.1 .",
    "when the orbital radius of a planet is small it can become phase - locked to its star and its ability to maintain satellites in stable orbits is reduced @xcite .",
    "hd 209458b , for instance , is thought to be phase - locked to its star [ e.g.,@xcite ] and its hill sphere is only about 4.3 times its radius .",
    "barnes and obrien ( 2002 ) estimate that an io - like moon would last only @xmath58  yr around hd 209458b and the largest satellite that could survive would have a radius @xmath59 of that of io .",
    "therefore , although giant planets certainly had orbiting material early in their history , they are not likely to maintain large satellites if they orbit close to their parent star .",
    "using conventional ideas on tidal locking , a jupiter - sized planet orbiting at @xmath40.05  au could become phase locked to a solar type star in @xmath58 yr @xcite .",
    "this time increases to @xmath60 yr at 0.1 au and @xmath61 yr at 0.2 au .",
    "the planet s hill sphere also increases with the distance from the star .",
    "therefore , although toroidal atmospheres associated with orbiting debris might be detected early in the history of a giant planet at a small orbital radius , we focus on the possibility of detecting toroidal atmospheres associated with planets having orbital radii @xmath62  au .",
    "the total content , morphology , and kinematics all affect the absorption characteristics of an extended atmosphere .",
    "these depend on several parameters including the source rate ( @xmath63 ) and lifetime ( @xmath64 ) of the species of interest , as well as the ejection velocity ( @xmath65 ) , and the orbital velocity of the source ( @xmath66 ) .",
    "the total number of atoms or molecules in a neutral cloud depends on the product @xmath67 .",
    "atoms and molecules ejected from an orbiting moon in a region where @xmath64 is much shorter than the orbital period , @xmath68 , will form a neutral cloud with a morphology resembling the sodium cloud at io shown in fig .",
    ". the mean radial extent of the cloud is given by @xmath69 so that the cloud has a cross section of @xmath70 , and the average column density is @xmath71 .",
    "a cloud with a toroidal morphology is formed if the atoms and molecules are ejected from a continuous ring of material _ or _ they are ejected from an orbiting moon _ but _ with lifetimes , @xmath72 .",
    "a toroidal atmosphere of ionized gas can be formed from the ions produced by _ either _ short _ or _ long - lived neutrals that are picked - up and distributed azimuthally by the rotating magnetic field , which is the case for the torus shown in fig .",
    "in order to illustrate the characteristics of a neutral torus , we show in fig .",
    "2 the line of sight column densities calculated using a monte carlo model ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for an outgassing moon orbiting a planet with the mass of saturn .",
    "the orbit radius @xmath73  @xmath15 , the orbital velocity @xmath74  km  s@xmath1 , the escape velocity @xmath75  km  s@xmath1 , and the product @xmath76 atoms .",
    "these quantities correspond to the orbital parameters of the moon enceladus and the content of its neutral toroidal atmosphere .",
    "the column densities in fig .",
    "2 are obtained by viewing the torus edge on .",
    "this is approximately the alignment expected in a transit because the planet s rotational axis is typically aligned with its orbital axis and most known satellites and all rings orbit near their planets equatorial planes .",
    "small tilts in the orbital plane will reduce the line - of - sight column density somewhat .",
    "the neutrals in this torus have an average speed roughly equal to the orbital speed , which for enceladus is @xmath77  km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the plasma formed from ionized neutrals would co - rotate with the planet , which corresponds at the orbital radius of enceladus to a speed of @xmath78  km  s@xmath1 .",
    "these speeds would result in line widths that are comparable to the stellar line widths discussed in  3 for the hd  209458b observations .",
    "if the absorption lines could be observed at high spectral resolution , the change in line profile at the beginning and end of the transit would be a valuable diagnostic .",
    "the neutral content of the extended atmosphere is given by the quantity @xmath67 , as noted above , but the vertical and radial extents of the torus depend on the ratio of the mean ejection speed , v@xmath79 , and the orbital speed , v@xmath80 .",
    "when @xmath81 is small , which is the case for the model in fig .  2 and for the features in figs .",
    "1a  c , centrifugal confinement dominates .",
    "that is , in a collision - less torus the vertical and radial extents of the cloud are determined by the distribution in the eccentricities and inclinations of the orbiting neutrals . for small @xmath81 , the maximum excursion above or below the orbital plane is approximately equal to the vertical component of v@xmath79 divided by the angular velocity of the source , @xmath82 , where @xmath83 is the distance from the planet to the ring or satellite source . using isotropic emission from the source , the average vertical distribution about the orbital plane is roughly @xmath84 .",
    "similarly , the radial extent along the orbit plane is @xmath85 ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "observing a torus with an average circumference @xmath86 seen edge on , the extent along the line of sight through the source region is @xmath87 .",
    "therefore , an average column density @xmath88 can be observed over an area @xmath89 centered on the source . using the parameters of the model given above",
    ", this expression gives a column density @xmath90  @xmath14 roughly consistent with the simulation shown in fig .",
    "2 . for this toroidal atmosphere ,",
    "the average column density and area over which the gas is distributed are comparable to that for the atmosphere detected at hd 209458b .",
    "in the simulation shown in fig .  2 ,",
    "the initial molecular motion is controlled by @xmath65 , the mean ejection speed .",
    "if , however , the neutrals are long - lived , they can be heated by interaction with the co - orbiting plasma , which expands the cloud , as is the case for the oh torus shown in fig .",
    "we also note that @xmath66 varies as @xmath91 , so that toroidal neutral clouds formed at smaller orbital radii give higher line - of - sight column densities , and hence , deeper absorption features .      with the equations given above , the content , column density , and size of a neutral torus can be roughly scaled for planets with different orbits using estimates of the source rate , mean lifetime , mean ejection speed , orbital location , and stellar luminosity .",
    "motivated by the considerations given in  4.1 , we use this scaling to consider if an extended atmosphere around a giant planet closer to its parent star than jupiter or saturn could be observed in a transit . as an example , we consider a planet with an orbit of radius @xmath4 0.2  au that might have a torus with absorption features comparable in strength to those observed in the atmosphere of hd  209458b . at a distance of 0.2  au ,",
    "the probability that the planet would transit the stellar disk along our line of sight is @xmath92 .",
    "the detection of transits at such orbital distances requires searches of significant numbers of stars over an extended time because of the relatively long orbital periods.(e.g .",
    ", sozzetti et al . 2004 ; pepper & gaudi 2005 ) .    as described earlier , the origin of io s atmosphere is volcanism , produced by tidal heating of the interior .",
    "the supply of gas to the atmosphere depends on io s position relative to its parent planet and its companion moons , but not on the distance from the sun . however , the size and content of the io s atmosphere , which affects the stripping rate , does depend on the orbital radius of the parent planet .",
    "if the jovian system were moved closer to the sun , to an orbit with radius @xmath93  au , the increased temperature would increase the atmospheric loss rate to a level approaching the volcanic gas production rate , about an order of magnitude larger than the present source rate for the io torus .",
    "however , the increased radiation field at 0.2  au would decrease the photo - ionization lifetime by a factor @xmath94 .",
    "the net effect is that the neutral sodium cloud would become more tenuous than the current cloud around io .",
    "however , this conclusion needs to be modified if the star has a spectral type much later than g2 so that the photo - ionization rate is significantly lower than in the solar system ( the absorption edge lies at 2400   ) , or if the object is observed at an early epoch during the loss of the moon s primordial atmosphere when the source rate is expected to be significantly larger .",
    "oxygen in the toroidal cloud at io is ionized by electron impact with a lifetime @xmath4",
    "10@xmath95  s. when the neutral source rate is very large , however , the electrons are rapidly cooled and photo - ionization becomes the limiting factor .",
    "photo - ionization is also the dominant destruction mechanism if the planet is close to the star .",
    "the average photo - ionization lifetime of oxygen at 0.2  au is @xmath96  s @xcite , where @xmath97 is the ratio of the photo - ionizing luminosity of the star to the photo - ionizing luminosity of the sun .    for a solar - type star ,",
    "this is comparable to the present electron impact lifetime at io . for",
    "an torus at @xmath93  au , a cloud of the @xmath18 atoms extending @xmath41  @xmath6 would require a source rate of @xmath98  atoms  s@xmath1 .",
    "this would require an escape rate @xmath99  atoms  @xmath14  s@xmath1 . for @xmath100",
    "this is only about 10 times the current atomic loss rate at io which has , at present , a thin atmosphere .",
    "therefore , such a loss rate is certainly feasible in an early epoch for a moon like io with a thick titan - like atmosphere and an exobase altitude that is a significant fraction of its radius . at this rate , a thick , primordial atmosphere ( with @xmath101  amu  @xmath14 )",
    "would be lost in about @xmath102  yr .",
    "this is consistent with loss rates for the early atmospheres of the galilean satellites of jupiter @xcite , but would require observing the planetary system at an early epoch .",
    "due to its much larger surface area , the erosion of a ring of debris could more readily supply such a toroidal atmosphere , as could volcanic emission or out - gassing from a small body for which escape is not significantly limited by gravity , such as an enceladus - like object .",
    "the magnetic field is crucial for the maintenance of a toroidal ionized plasma , but the presence of a magnetic dynamo on a planet with a small orbital radius is uncertain @xcite . for the orbital radii that we are considering ( @xmath62  au ) , planets are not likely to be phase - locked to their star so their magnetic field strength could be comparable to that of jupiter . in this case the ability to confine the ions would also be similar to that at io . based on the jovian torus observations discussed in  2 , ion lifetimes are determined by plasma diffusion processes and , therefore , are less affected by the photo - ionization flux at a planet with a small orbital radius . using the average ion lifetimes near io , the required source rate would be @xmath103  atoms  s@xmath1 , much smaller than the case discussed above for producing an observable neutral torus .",
    "this rate is comparable to the present out - gassing rate of enceladus and to the atmospheric stripping rate at io .",
    "therefore , if the planet has a robust magnetic field , an io - like moon can produce a toroidal _ plasma _ , like that in fig.1c , which has a content and scale roughly comparable to the plasma feature already observed in the atmosphere of hd  209458b .",
    "a toroidal atmosphere like that at saturn , formed from the out - gassing of an icy moon , is unlikely to be present around a solar - type star at an orbital radius much less than @xmath45  au because the ice mantel could not survive .",
    "the probability of observing a transit in this case is therefore low .",
    "recently , however , a planet candidate has been seen orbiting the young brown dwarf , 2m1207 ( chauvin et al . , 2004 ) , suggesting the presence of planets around low luminosity stars . by scaling from the solar system , we find that a toroidal atmosphere produced by out - gassing from an enceladus - like object could be present on a planet with an orbit of radius 0.2  au around a star of much lower luminosity @xmath104  @xmath105 .",
    "the measurement of the spectral signature of the torus becomes correspondingly more difficult in the low luminosity system , but intermediate cases could be observable , especially where the source rate is significantly larger than for enceladus , which is easily feasible especially at early epochs .",
    "the giant planets jupiter and saturn have large emission features associated with ejecta from satellites and ring particles .",
    "these ejecta can form clouds of neutrals and ions that have cross sections comparable to the planet , as seen in fig .  1 .",
    "we point out that such features in our solar system have sizes and contents comparable to the escaping atmosphere already observed in absorption when hd  209458b transits its parent star .",
    "therefore , we suggest that , although it is very difficult to observe a moon or ring on an extra solar planet , it might be more likely to observe the torus of gas escaping from a satellite or a ring of debris when a giant planet makes a transit across the disk of its star .    since the probability of observing a transiting planet increases with decreasing distance from the parent star , detection of giant planets with small orbital radii are favored .",
    "such planets very likely had toroidal atmospheres from orbiting debris or satellite venting early in their history .",
    "for instance , the large jovian satellites , which have been fully stripped of their primordial atmospheres ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , likely had robust atmospheres at earlier epochs .",
    "however , for a planet with a small orbital radius , like hd 209458b , maintaining satellites in stable orbits is problematic @xcite .    for stars with giant planets that have larger orbital radii ,",
    "an observable toroidal atmosphere formed from refractory materials could be present , as is the case at jupiter .",
    "also , a planet orbiting a much cooler star at a relatively small radius could maintain a toroidal atmosphere formed from icy bodies like that seen at saturn .",
    "detecting such features on an extrasolar planet would be important .",
    "it would indicate the presence of satellites or rings and , possibly , the presence of a magnetic field .",
    "we thank j .-",
    "griemeier , d. p. obrien and the referee for many helpful comments , and ms .",
    "m. liu for assistance in preparing the manuscript and figures .",
    "rej also thanks the physics department of nyu for hospitality while on sabbatical leave .",
    "we acknowledge support from nasa planetary atmospheres and nasa origins programs ( rje ) , and nsf ast 03 - 07277 ( pjh ) .",
    "arribaset al .",
    "2006 , pasp 118 , 21 bagenal , f. , dowling , t. , & mckinnon , w. b. 2004 , jupiter : the planet , satellites , and magnetosphere ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) barnes , j. w. , & obrien , d. p. 2002",
    ", , 575 , 1087 borucki , w. j. , & summers , a. l. 1984 , , 58 , 121 brown , t. m. , & chaffee , f. h. 1974 , , 187 , l125 burger , m. h. , & johnson , r. e. 2004 , , 171 , 557 charbonneau , d. , brown , t. m. , latham , d. w. , & mayor , m. 2000 , , 529 , l45 charbonneau , d. , brown , t. m. , noyes , r. w. , & gilliland , r. l. 2002 , , 568 , 377 chauvin , g. , lagrange , a .- m . , dumas , c. , zuckerman , b. , mouillet , d. , song , i. beuzit , j .- l . , & lowrance , p. 2004",
    ", , 425 , l29 goldberg , b. a. , garnean , g. w. , & lavoie , s. k. 1984 , science , 266 , 512 griemeier , j .- m . , et al .",
    "2004 , , 425 , 753 guillot , t. , burrows , a. , hubbard , w. b. , lunine , j. i. , & saumon , d. 1996 , , 459 , l35 hansen , c. j. , shemansky , d. e. , & hendrix , a. r. 2005 , , 176 , 305 huebner , w. f. , keady , j. j. , & lyon , s. p. 1992",
    ", , 195 , 1 johnson , r. e. 1990 , energetic charged particle interactions with atmospheres and surfaces ( new york : springer - verlag ) johnson , r. e. 1994 , , 69 , 215 johnson , r. e. 2004 , 609 , l99 johnson r. e. , & mcgrath , m. a. 1993 , , 20 , 1735 johnson , r. e. , smith , h. t. , tucker , o. j. , liu , m. , burger , m. h. , sittler , e. c. , & tokar , r. l. 2006a , , in press johnson , r. e. et al .",
    "2006b , , 180 , 393 johnson , r. e. , liu , m. , & sittler , e. c. 2005 , , 32 , 24201 jurac , s. , mcgrath , m. a. , johnson , r. e. , richardson , j. d. , vasyliunas , v. m. , & eviatar , a. 2002 , , 29 , 2172 krimigis , s. m. , & the mimi team 2005 , science , 307 , 1270 mcgrath , m. a. , lellouch , e. , strobel , d. f. , feldman , p. d. , & johnson , r. e. , 2004 , in jupiter : the planet , satellites , and magnetosphere , ed .",
    "f.  bagenal , t.  dowling , w. b. mckinnon ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) , 457 mendelowitz , c. , ge , j. , mandell , a. m. , & li , a. 2004 , , 601 , 1120 mendillo , m. , baumgartner , j. , flynn , b. , & hughes , w. j. 1990 , , 348 , 312 michael , m. , johnson , r. e. , leblanc , f. , liu , m. , luhmann , j. g. , & shematovich , v.i .",
    "2005 , , 175 , 263 pepper , j. , & gaudi , b. s. 2005 , , 631 , 581 sansonetti , j. e. , & martin , w. c. 2005 , nist handbook of basic spectroscopic data , http://physics.nist.gov/physrefdata/handbook schneider , n. m. , & trauger , j. t. 1995 , , 450 , 450 seager , s. , & hui , l. 2002 , , 574 , 1004 shemansky , d. e. , matherson , p. , hall , d. t. , & tripp , t. m. 1992 , , 363 , 329 showalter , m. r. , cuzzi , j. n. , & larson , s. l. 1991 , , 94 , 451 smith , h. t. , johnson , r. e. , shematovich , v. i. 2004 , , 31 , 16804 smyth , w. h. 1992 , adv .",
    "space res .",
    "12 , 337 smyth , w. h. & marconi , m. l. 2003 , , 166 , 85 sozzetti , a. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 616 , l167 spahn , f. , et al .",
    "2006 , science , 311 , 1416 thomas , n. , bagenal , f. , hill , t. w. , wilson , j. k. , 2004 , in jupiter : the planet , satellites , and magnetosphere , ed .",
    "f.  bagenal , t.  dowling , w. b. mckinnon ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) , 561 tokar , r. l. , et al .",
    "2006 , science , 311 , 1409 vidal - madjar , a. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 604 , l69 waite , j. h. , et al .",
    "2006 , science , 311 , 1419 wittenmyer , r. a. et al .",
    "2005 , , 632 , 1157 young , d.t .",
    "2005 , science , 307 , 1262"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> jupiter and saturn have extended , nearly toroidal atmospheres composed of material ejected from their moons or rings . here </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that similar atmospheres must exist around giant extrasolar planets and might be observable in a transit of the parent star . </S>",
    "<S> observation of such an atmosphere would be a marker for the presence of orbiting debris in the form of rings or moons that might otherwise be too small to be detected . </S>"
  ]
}