{
  "article_text": [
    "the reuven ramaty high - energy solar spectroscopic imager , rhessi @xcite , is a space - based solar x - ray and @xmath0-ray telescope that was launched in 2002 .",
    "its main goal is to obtain spectroscopic and imaging information of solar flares with high time and energy resolutions from 3  kev to 15  mev . in particular",
    "it has unprecedented sensitivity for 3 - 25  kev x - rays .",
    "this is because when its automated attenuators ( used in flare observations ) are `` out '' , it can observe down to the nominal 3  kev limit with the full area of the detectors , something not possible for earlier instruments which used fixed shielding to prevent excessive counting rates from soft x - rays in flares .",
    "normal rhessi imaging is accomplished with a set of nine bigrid rotating modulation collimators ( rmcs ) with resolutions logarithmically spaced from 2.3@xmath1 to 183@xmath1 . each rmc time - modulates sources whose size scale is smaller than their resolution . thus despite its sensitivity , it is not well suited to observe weak sources larger than 3 arcminutes . for weak sources",
    "it is also essential to distinguish counts due to photons from the target from those due to terrestrial , cosmic or instrumental background .    to achieve this",
    "we have developed a technique called _ fan - beam modulation _ , detailed and tested in this paper , that involves pointing the telescope slightly away from the target . as rhessi rotates , the narrow field of view ( @xmath2 fwhm ) of rhessi s thick grids time - modulates the signal to `` chop '' between an extended source and background .    the main motivation for developing this technique is to obtain the hard x - ray spectrum of the sun free of sunspots , active regions and flares ( the quiet sun ) .",
    "we expect the quiet sun sources to be weak and well - dispersed across the solar disk ( the diameter of which is about 32@xmath3 ) .",
    "since hard x - ray instrumentation is typically optimized for flare observations ( bright compact sources ) , such quiet sun observations remain an elusive measurement despite interest back to the earliest days of solar x - ray observations ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "with rhessi we have the possibility of improving these values as well as extending them to lower and higher energies .",
    "the focus of this paper is to introduce the _ fan - beam modulation _",
    "technique , whose implementation is explained in sec .",
    "[ sec : offpnt ] . in sec .",
    "[ sec : test ] we test this method on sources with strong or well - known signals : microflares that occurred during quiet sun offpointing , and the crab nebula . in sec .",
    "[ sec : qs ] we present some analysis from periods of low solar activity , illustrating that this method is capable of observing weak extended sources .",
    "the rhessi telescope consists of nine pairs of grids in front of nine germanium detectors @xcite , which record x - rays with high energy and time resolution from 3  kev to 15  mev . to obtain temporal modulation of the counting rates the spacecraft rotates about the axis pointing at the sun with a rotation period of about 4  seconds .",
    "each pair of grids then constitutes a rotating modulation collimator , rmc @xcite .",
    "compact sources on the solar disk ( such as flares ) are rapidly time - modulated by the grids , enabling high - resolution imaging , but the primary modulation of solar - size sources is negligible .",
    "there is , however , a secondary modulation that results from the finite thickness of the collimator grids @xcite .",
    "this `` envelope '' modulation peaks twice every rotation when the slits of the grids are parallel to the line between rhessi pointing and source center , producing two transmission maxima per rotation . for one collimator ,",
    "[ fig : modprof ] shows the expected modulation profiles for a point source and for the solar disk as a function of roll angle for several off - axis angles .",
    "the top row of this figures shows the result for typical solar pointing : a point source has the expected rapid modulation , but this does not occur for the full solar disk . as the offpointing angle increases the frequency of the rapid modulation increases as well as the secondary fan - beam modulates the signal twice per rotation .     to 1.0@xmath4 .",
    "]    the fan - beam modulation increases with the offpointing angle as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : gridtranrd ] , where we have plotted its amplitude as a function of radial offset . for this work",
    "we do not use the data from rmcs 2 , 5 or 7 since their thresholds are above 3  kev and/or have degraded energy resolution .",
    "the first four rmcs shown have the smallest field of view ( @xmath5 ) orthogonal to the slits and so the modulation is greater than in rmcs 8 and 9 , whose fov is @xmath6 and @xmath7 respectively .",
    "[ fig : gridtranrd ] also shows that we get the maximum effect of the fan - beam modulation technique when rhessi is pointing between @xmath8 and @xmath9 away from source center . at larger angles the increasing shadowing of the grids on the detectors reduces the amplitudes .",
    "normally the rhessi pointing control system remains inactive when its rotation axis is within a dead - band corresponding to solar offsets between 0.05@xmath4 and 0.2@xmath4 . to initiate offpointing the dead - band limits",
    "are changed to 0.4@xmath4 and 1.0@xmath4 . for quiet sun observations ,",
    "this mode of operation has been initiated several times when the goes soft x - ray flux was low and no active regions or spots were on the disk .",
    "a summary of rhessi s pointing and the goes flux during the october  2005 offpointing is shown in fig . [ fig : octsumry ] .        to facilitate the analysis of such a large data set it",
    "is divided into successive five - minute time intervals , which are short enough that the pointing of the spacecraft changes little .",
    "the data for each five - minute interval can be analyzed in any energy range above  3  kev , although smaller energy bands provide poorer statistics . for a chosen energy range we bin ( `` stack '' ) the data according to the roll angle , @xmath10 , for each subcollimator , correcting for the relative geometry of the spacecraft pointing and the source and the grid orientation such that @xmath11 when the grid slits are aligned to the source .",
    "we then fit this stacked data with @xmath12 where a@xmath13 is the background term , a@xmath14 and a@xmath15 are the main and first harmonic amplitudes of the signal and @xmath16 are the fitted phases .",
    "the source signal should occur at @xmath17 and @xmath18 , with the phase offset @xmath19 should be zero , as we have corrected @xmath10 .",
    "the a@xmath14 amplitude then provides the measure of the source flux although it has to be corrected for the grid transmission efficiency and grid shadowing , factors dependent on radial offset shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : gridtranrd ] . after this correction ,",
    "the resulting fits from different time intervals can then be combined vectorially to improve the signal - to - noise ratio before conversion to a final photon flux .",
    "this conversion is achieved by either using the diagonal elements of the appropriate detector response matrix @xcite , or via forward - fitting a model to the spectrum using the full detector response matrix in the ospex software package ( an updated version of the spex code written by r. schwartz ) .        ) . ]",
    "we test the fan - beam modulation technique on microflares which have a relatively large signals , and the crab nebula , an extended source whose weaker signal is well known .",
    "several microflares occurred during quiet sun offpointing intervals .",
    "one typical event occurring at 22:33:00 25 july 2005 was equivalent to a goes a8.3 flare with background subtracted .",
    "one minute of 4 - 6  kev stacked data for this event is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : stackfl ] . in rmcs 1 , 3 , 4 and 6",
    "we get a strong and clearly defined signal , which matches the expected modulation . in rmcs 8 and 9",
    "the modulation is not as strong , as expected from fig .",
    "[ fig : gridtranrd ] . making the grid transmission correction to the amplitude fit of the signal in rmcs 1 , 3 , 4 and  6",
    "we average the four fluxes to obtain a single value for this flare in the 4 - 6  kev band .",
    "this analysis was repeated for each of the nine microflares for which we achieved good coverage during our four quiet - sun offpointing periods .",
    "[ fig : flvsgs ] shows the rhessi 4 - 6  kev microflare counts , corrected for grid transmission , against the corresponding goes 18  energy fluxes .",
    "the errors shown for the values derived from the fan - beam modulation are based on the standard deviation of the values found from each of the four individual detectors .",
    "this systematic error among the detectors ( about 13.5% for these microflares ) is larger than the statistical error found from each of the fits .",
    "this systematic discrepancy is a known issue with rhessi and is still under investigation .",
    "the correlation between the rhessi and goes fluxes shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : flvsgs ] is an excellent fit to a power law but differs from unity ( power - law index  1.33 ) .",
    "this may reflect temperature differences among flares convolved with the difference between the goes and rhessi spectral response .",
    "when rhessi is offpointed from the sun , pitch and yaw information is obtained from the fine sun sensor ( fss ) which is intrinsically less precise than the solar aspect system ( sas ) used for conventional rhessi imaging .",
    "however its accuracy is more than sufficient to support fan - beam modulation analyses as well as conventional back projection imaging with the coarsest subcollimator , rmc9 .",
    "the agreement between conventional imaging and the fan - beam modulation technique is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : flvsnorm ] which shows a comparison of the 4 - 6  kev fluxes .          in an annual program ,",
    "rhessi points away from the sun to image the crab nebula and pulsar , around the time of the sun s closest approach ( mid - june ) .",
    "since the hard x - ray spectrum of the crab is well - known and stable @xcite it provides a photometric test of the fan - beam modulation offpointing technique .        in the 2004 campaign",
    ", some data were taken at radial offsets suitable for testing the fan - beam modulation technique ( the crab between @xmath8 and @xmath9 away , the sun @xmath20 ) . as a result",
    "the crab signal is modulated while the sun is too far away to be directly observed .",
    "thus even in the presence of solar activity we can obtain a clean crab signal . from 11 to 20 june 2004",
    "this orientation occurred for a total of 19 such orbits ( each about an hour in length ) , avoiding times of high particle background during the south atlantic anomaly ( saa ) passages .    the stacked counting rates in the 3 - 25  kev band for one of these orbits is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : stackcrb ] . as before the roll angles are corrected for the grid orientation and the relative position of the crab to rhessi pointing , so that the crab signal should occur at @xmath17 and @xmath18 .",
    "[ fig : stackcrb ] shows the stacked signal for six of the rhessi detectors . in rmcs 1 , 3 ,",
    "4 and 6 we get the expected modulation which is fitted well by eq .",
    "[ eq1 ] ( shown as a grey line ) .    for each of the four detectors we fit the stacked count - rate data for each orbit in a series of energy bands from 3  to 100  kev .",
    "the amplitude of these fits is corrected for the grid transmission for the particular radial offset of that orbit .",
    "this provides a count spectrum , corrected for grid transmission , for each of the four detectors .",
    "then each of these spectra is forward - fitted using the ospex software package @xcite with a power law and the appropriate detector response matrix , to obtain a photon spectra .",
    "the four photon spectra and their fits are then combined and shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : crabspec ] .    fitting a power law @xmath21 ph  s@xmath22 @xmath23 kev@xmath22",
    ", we obtain @xmath24 and @xmath25 , for the rhessi data between 4 and 60 kev , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : crabspec ] .",
    "the standard values for these parameters are @xmath26 , @xmath27 for the range 250  kev @xcite .",
    "the consistency with our observations provides confidence in their photometric accuracy .",
    "comparison with a more recent survey of these parameters also provides similar results @xcite .",
    "here we present a preliminary analysis of the quiet sun signal , to indicate that this method works on the intended target source .    for this analysis we have used the data from the four initial quiet sun offpointing periods , as detailed in sec .",
    "[ sec : offpnt ] and illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : octsumry ] . during this period",
    "the sun was very quiet with the goes 12 flux in 1 - 8``flat - lining '' below @xmath28  wm@xmath29 .",
    "we do not use the full offpointing periods in the analysis ; instead we screen the time intervals by checking the rhessi data for sharp time - series features ( such as flares or particle events ) .",
    "we have also restricted the data to times when rhessi is at the lowest latitudes in its orbits , to minimize the terrestrial background . from these four offpointing periods",
    "we have a total of 1,522 five - minute time intervals ( over 126 hours of data ) .    for each of the five - minute intervals we selected a set of energy bins and fit the stacked data in each subcollimator with eq .",
    "( [ eq1 ] ) .",
    "the stacked data in two energy ranges ( 3 - 6  kev and 6 - 12  kev ) , for 1 hour of quiet sun data , with goes background flux below a1  level , are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : stackqs ] . no obvious signal appears , but none would be expected .",
    "this highlights the need to combine many time intervals to improve the signal - to - noise .",
    "we fitted the stacked data from each rmc with eq .",
    "[ eq1 ] in such a way that an @xmath30 and @xmath31 term , with associated errors , is returned for each of the cosine terms in eq .",
    "statistically the expectation value of @xmath32 , the source signal , and @xmath33 .",
    "the former represents the measurement of interest while the latter provides a consistency check .",
    "( left panels , a ) . and c ) .",
    ") and @xmath34 ( right panels , b ) . and d ) . ) for detectors rmcs 1 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 8 and 9 , averaged over the 1,522 five - minute quiet sun time intervals .",
    "the top row show the results for 3 - 6 kev , the bottom row for 6 - 12 kev . ]    fig .",
    "[ fig : qsmeans]a shows the mean 3 - 6  kev counts ( corrected for grid transmission ) for each detector averaged over all 1,522 five - minute intervals .",
    "the larger error bars for rmc8 and 9 reflect their lower modulation efficiency .",
    "although the scatter is larger than the statistics would suggest , there is a clear detection .",
    "[ fig : qsmeans]b shows the corresponding average for the @xmath35 term which , as expected , is consistent with zero . in the higher 6 - 12  kev energy channel",
    "we achieve similar results , with the @xmath36 positive and non - zero and @xmath35 consistent with zero .",
    "these results both show that the fan - beam modulation technique works by being able to detect a signal from the non - flaring quiet sun .",
    "we have developed a new technique for observing the quiet sun which uses of the fan - beam collimation of the grids .",
    "the technique extends rhessi observations to sources larger than can be imaged using conventional bigrid modulation . as presented in sec .",
    "[ sect : crab ] , the photometric accuracy of the technique has been verified using the known flux of the crab nebula .    from the initial tests of the fan - beam modulation technique on the quiet sun we are able to achieve positive non - zero signal .",
    "we would then expect that the fan - beam modulation technique holds promise for offpointing periods when observations in the magnetically quieter conditions expected in 2007 .",
    "nasa supported this work under grant nag5 - 12878 .",
    "we thank many people involved in the rhessi program for inspiration and assistance with software , calibration , and spectral fitting issues , especially brian dennis , richard schwartz and david smith ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a new method , fan - beam modulation , for observing weak extended x - ray sources with the reuven ramaty high - energy solar spectroscopic imager ( rhessi ) . </S>",
    "<S> this space - based solar x - ray and @xmath0-ray telescope has much greater sensitivity than previous experiments in the 3 - 25 kev range , but is normally not well suited to detecting extended sources since their signal is not modulated by rhessi s rotating grids . </S>",
    "<S> when the spacecraft is offpointed from the target source , however , the fan - beam modulation time - modulates the transmission by shadowing resulting from exploiting the finite thickness of the grids . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we detail how the technique is implemented and verify its consistency with sources with clear known signals that have occurred during rhessi offpointing : microflares and the crab nebula . in both cases </S>",
    "<S> the results are consistent with previous and complementary measurements . </S>",
    "<S> preliminary work indicates that this new technique allows rhessi to observe the integrated hard x - ray spectrum of weak extended sources on the quiet sun . </S>"
  ]
}