{
  "article_text": [
    "the distribution of galaxy luminosities , along with their mass - to - light ratios and spatial distribution , represent key observations that should be explained by theories of galaxy formation . in the @xmath12cdm model of structure formation ,",
    "these broad brush empirical characterisations of the galaxy population result from a complicated interplay between the lumpy growth and coalescence of dark matter haloes and the radiative cooling , star formation and feedback associated with baryons within these clumps .",
    "not only are the galaxies signposts to locate the underlying overdensities in the dark matter distribution , their properties also provide a systematic record of the processes that have taken place in those haloes and their progenitors . to develop a deeper understanding of the impact of these various processes , it is helpful to break down the global constraints referred to above and consider their variation with halo mass .",
    "the determination of the luminosity function of galaxies has received much observational effort ( blanton 2001 , 2003 ; cole 2001 ; kochanek 2001 ; norberg 2002 ) , and recently there have been suggestions that the distribution of galaxy luminosities varies between rich cluster environments and low density regions ( zabludoff & mulchaey 2000 ; christlein 2000 ; balogh 2001 ; de propris 2003 ) .",
    "furthermore , some authors find evidence that a schechter function does not well describe the galaxy luminosity function in groups and clusters because of an excess of bright galaxies ( smith , driver & phillipps 1997 ; trentham & tully 2002 ; christlein & zabludoff 2003 ) while these empirical results are intriguing , a systematic study with a large set of homogenous groups would add welcome weight to these findings .",
    "what should one expect to find ?",
    "this question has been addressed using semi - analytical prescriptions ( white & frenk 1991 ; kauffmann 1993 ; diaferio 1999 ; benson 2003b ) .",
    "these techniques provide a physically motivated _ ab initio _",
    "procedure for calculating the properties of galaxy populations , which can be compared with the real universe in order to constrain the physical processes and their implementation within the models . both diaferio and benson find that the galaxy luminosity functions within haloes of different mass are not well described by schechter functions .",
    "instead , they have an excess in the abundance at the bright end which arises from the different processes that are important for the growth of the large central galaxy relative to the other galaxies in the haloes ( the satellites ) . in smaller haloes , where a larger fraction of the group luminosity is typically locked up in the central galaxy , this produces a more prominent deviation from a schechter function at the bright end of the group s galaxy luminosity function .",
    "furthermore , the luminosity at which this ` central galaxy bump ' occurs , increases with halo mass . testing the predictions from these models",
    "represents an opportunity to learn about aspects of galaxy formation .",
    "the mass - to - light ratios ( @xmath4 ) of groups represent another important clue , the light - to - mass ratio essentially reflecting the efficiency with which stars are formed within haloes of different mass . in large haloes this should be determined by the rate of gas cooling , whereas in small haloes other factors that cause energy to be injected into the halo gas become effective at disrupting the formation of stars .",
    "the prediction of semi - analytical models is that mass should be converted most efficiently into optical light in haloes of mass @xmath13 ( white & frenk 1991 ; kauffmann 1999 ; benson 2000 ) .",
    "one way in which this can be tested is to take a theoretically motivated mass function and match haloes with galaxy groups of the same abundance as inferred from an empirically determined group luminosity function .",
    "this reveals the variation of the typical @xmath4 with mass .",
    "qualitatively , marinoni & hudson ( 2002 ) find a trend similar to that predicted by semi - analytical models , namely a minimum @xmath4 at intermediate masses of @xmath13 .",
    "observationally , there have been many studies that have directly measured @xmath4 for clusters and large groups of galaxies in various wavebands ( @xmath14  carlberg 1996 , 2001 ; tucker 2000 ; @xmath15  schaeffer 1993 ; david , jones & forman 1995 ; cirimele , nesci & trvese 1997 ; hradecky 2000 ; @xmath16  ramella , pisani & geller 1997 ; adami 1998 ; girardi 2000 , 2002 ; sanderson & ponman 2003 ; tully 2004 ) .",
    "some studies suggest that the mass - to - light ratio is larger in bigger systems , whereas other studies find no significant variation .",
    "in addition to the direct relevance of the mass - to - light ratio and its dependence on halo mass for studies of galaxy formation , @xmath4 is an important quantity to measure since it provides one of the traditional ways to estimate the mean matter density of the universe ( carlberg 1996 ) .",
    "this requires an assumption about the relation between the mass - to - light ratio of the groups or clusters and the mean cosmic value .",
    "traditionally , it has been assumed that the value of @xmath4 for the most massive clusters is representative of the universal mean , although for a long time this assumption was challenged in biased models of galaxy formation ( davis 1985 ) . at any rate , the value of @xmath4 for clusters , together with an appropriate assumption about its universality and knowledge of the total galaxy luminosity density allows a simple estimate of the mean mass density for the universe .",
    "the construction of the 2dfgrs percolation - inferred galaxy group ( 2pigg ) catalogue ( eke 2004 ) from the 2 degree field galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs : colless 2001 , 2003 ) facilitates a direct calculation of the galaxy content in a large sample of homogenous groups .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to report the results of a decomposition , by group size , of the luminosity functions of galaxies within groups , and the group mass - to - light ratio .",
    "mock catalogues constructed from cosmological simulations are employed as a guide to the accuracy with which these quantities can be inferred from the 2pigg sample .",
    "this is a vital step in the comparison of a model prediction with the observational results .",
    "section  [ sec : data ] contains a brief description of the group catalogue and a quantitative study of its reliability . in section  [ sec : glf ] the luminosity functions of galaxies within groups is shown for different halo masses .",
    "the variation of total halo mass - to - light ratio with halo size is investigated in section  [ sec : mol ] .",
    "= 8.4 cm    = 8.4 cm    a detailed description of the construction of the mock catalogues , and the groupfinding algorithm applied both to these and the real 2dfgrs was given by eke ( 2004 ) .",
    "briefly , three different @xmath12cdm dark matter n - body simulations were used .",
    "they had ( @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 ) @xmath20 ( 154 , @xmath21 , 0.7 ) , ( 250 , @xmath22 , 0.8 ) and ( 141 , @xmath23 , 0.9 ) , where @xmath17 is the side of the computational cube in @xmath24 , @xmath18 the number of particles and @xmath19 the rms linear density fluctuation in 8@xmath24 spheres .",
    "( the last of these is the gif simulation described in jenkins 1998 . ) the semi - analytical model of galaxy formation described by cole ( 2000 ) was implemented in the simulations to create populations of model galaxies whose observable properties are given by the model .",
    "although the semi - analytical model produces a galaxy luminosity function which is quite similar to that in the 2dfgrs , a small rescaling of the @xmath2 luminosities was applied , to produce a model luminosity function which was identical to that in the 2dfgrs .",
    "mock 2dfgrs catalogues were then constructed with the same geometry and position - dependent flux limit as the 2dfgrs , and samples of groups were selected by applying exactly the same cluster - finding algorithm used to generate the 2pigg catalogue .",
    "the @xmath3 band magnitudes were rescaled in the same way as those in the @xmath2 band , preserving the semi - analytical galaxy colours . unlike in the @xmath2 band , the resulting galaxy @xmath3-band luminosity functions for the mock and 2dfgrs catalogues are thus not identical , as detailed in appendix  [ app : lr ] .    here",
    ", the focus is on describing the pertinent group properties and quantifying the accuracy with which they are inferred .",
    "the latter relies entirely on the mock catalogues , for which the true properties of the haloes hosting the groups are known in the parent simulation .",
    "as described by eke ( 2004 ) , the group mass is inferred dynamically according to @xmath25 where @xmath26 , @xmath27 is the 1-dimensional velocity dispersion , calculated using the gapper algorithm ( beers , flynn & gebhardt 1990 ) and removing @xmath28 in quadrature to account for redshift measurement errors , and @xmath29 is the r.m.s . projected separation of galaxies from the group centre , assuming an @xmath30 cosmological model .",
    "the value of @xmath31 has been chosen by reference to mock catalogues in which galaxies trace the dark matter within each halo , apart from a ` central ' galaxy placed at the halo centre of mass .",
    "there is some evidence from gravitational lensing studies that bright galaxies do indeed trace the mass , at least in rich clusters ( hoekstra 2002 ; kneib 2003 ) .",
    "however , these current observational constraints are not yet sufficiently stringent that the effective value of @xmath31 can be empirically justified to better than a few tens of per cent .",
    "this is the main potential source of systematic error in this paper .",
    "= 13.5 cm    = 13.5 cm      in order to calculate the total group luminosity , it is necessary to correct for the incompleteness in the 2dfgrs .",
    "when finding the groups , galaxies from the parent catalogue that have no measured redshift have their weights redistributed equally to the nearest 10 projected galaxies with measured redshifts , and these galaxies are assigned a larger linking volume accordingly . as the sets of galaxies with and without redshifts are random subsamples ( in terms of the intrinsic galaxy properties ) of the same underlying galaxy population ( ignoring the small level of flux - dependent redshift incompleteness ) , the incompleteness can simply be taken into account by totting up the observed group @xmath2 luminosity according to @xmath32 where the sum extends over the @xmath33 galaxies in the group with their individual weights , @xmath34 .",
    "the total group luminosity is then estimated by including the contribution from galaxies below the luminosity limit , @xmath35 , at the redshift of the group .",
    "the extrapolation to zero galaxy luminosity is performed assuming that a schechter function describes the number of galaxies as a function of luminosity .",
    "given that the schechter function is @xmath36 this operation merely involves dividing the observed luminosity by the incomplete gamma function @xmath37 . in practice , a small correction is also applied because galaxies with fluxes corresponding to @xmath38 have been removed from the redshift catalogue .",
    "this bright flux limit only makes a perceptible difference for a few very local groups .",
    "these calculations require the additional information that @xmath39 in the @xmath2 band and the adopted @xmath40-correction is similar to that of norberg ( 2002 ) , @xmath41 the global @xmath42 values are used to extrapolate to the total luminosity for all groups .",
    "these values differ slightly from those of norberg ( 2002 ) as they have been derived from the recalibrated 2dfgrs ( colless 2003 ) . using a halo mass - dependent extrapolation ( see section  [ sec : glf ] ) changes the inferred luminosities by no more than @xmath43 per cent .    at @xmath44 , the fraction of the total group luminosity that is actually observed drops below a half . additionally , according to the mock catalogues",
    ", the amount of contamination of group membership increases at these higher redshifts .",
    "thus , in all of what follows , only groups at @xmath45 will be considered .",
    "this provides a large number of well - sampled groups with a range of masses up to @xmath46 .",
    "the number of groups as a function of mass and luminosity is shown in figs  [ fig : nm ] and  [ fig : nl ] for both the mock and real catalogues , choosing the minimum group membership to be @xmath47 or @xmath48 .",
    "distributions of @xmath47 groups at @xmath49 are also shown in these figures .",
    "the mock and real catalogues yield broadly similar numbers of groups with similar masses and luminosities .",
    "there is a slight deficit of groups in the mock catalogue relative to the 2pigg data .",
    "this originates from the lack of low luminosity galaxies included at @xmath50 , as described by eke ( 2004 ) .",
    "complications arise when using the supercosmos ( hambly 2001 ) @xmath3 band data because the 2dfgrs is a @xmath2 selected survey .",
    "different depths in the red luminosity function are thus probed for galaxies of different spectral types . rather than dealing with the explicit dependence of the luminosity function on colour ,",
    "the sample was re - cut to a conservative @xmath3 limit such that almost all 2dfgrs galaxies can be detected to the same red luminosity at a given redshift .",
    "this issue is discussed in detail in appendix  a , which justifies re - cutting the sample at a local limit of @xmath51 .",
    "the typical redshift error in the 2dfgrs of @xmath52 ( colless 2001 ) will lead to small mass haloes having considerable errors in their estimated velocity dispersions and hence masses .",
    "for instance , @xmath53 and @xmath54 correspond to a mass of about @xmath55 . in order to interpret the results in the following sections , it is important to quantify the degree of uncertainty in the estimated halo masses and luminosities and",
    "how this varies with properties such as the number of member galaxies , @xmath33 , or halo luminosity .",
    "the ` accuracy ' with which a halo property is measured is defined as a logarithmic measure of the error in the property : @xmath56 where @xmath57 can stand for mass , @xmath2 or @xmath3 luminosity .",
    "figs  [ fig : errorsn ] and  [ fig : errorsl ] show how the median accuracies , and the 16th and 84th percentiles ( as opposed to the mean @xmath58 ) , vary as functions of @xmath33 and @xmath59 respectively .",
    "[ fig : errorsn ] shows that the spread in mass accuracies becomes very large when the number of group members is less than @xmath48 . for more populated groups ,",
    "the median accuracy is approximately zero , meaning that the typical inferred mass is unbiased .",
    "the luminosities are typically overestimated by a few tens of per cent even for well - populated groups , but they can still be relatively well determined for binaries . from this figure , one can infer that measured group luminosity is a better quantity than the measured dynamical mass for ranking the groups in order of size . note that the accuracy of @xmath3 luminosities has a larger spread than that in the @xmath2 band .",
    "this is the result of using fewer galaxies to calculate the @xmath3 luminosity , meaning that the schechter function correction for unobserved galaxies is slightly larger in the @xmath3 than in the @xmath2 band .",
    "similar trends are visible in fig .",
    "[ fig : errorsl ] , where the distributions of accuracies are shown as a function of group luminosity for two different values of @xmath60 . at low group luminosity , particularly for @xmath47 , the halo masses become increasingly overestimated and poorly determined due to the impact of the 2dfgrs redshift errors and contamination . also apparent",
    "is a tail of underestimated group @xmath3 luminosities at low @xmath2 group luminosity .",
    "these are binary groups with no members that satisfy the adopted flux limits , and are thus assigned zero @xmath3-band luminosity .",
    "armed with this quantitative understanding of the group catalogue , it is now appropriate to see what information can be extracted concerning the galaxy populations in different sizes of halo .",
    "= 19.cm    this section addresses firstly the issue of how well the galaxy luminosity function in haloes of different mass can be recovered from the mock catalogues and , secondly , the determination of these functions for the real data . in calculating the space density of galaxies ,",
    "a @xmath61 estimator has been applied to each galaxy .",
    "the variable flux limit across the survey has been taken into account .",
    "dynamically inferred group masses , calculated according to equation  ( [ mass ] ) , have been used to split the total sample into different classes .",
    "sets of mock catalogues have been constructed from two different semi - analytical models of galaxy formation applied to the same n - body simulations .",
    "both these models are based on the general scheme developed by cole ( 2000 ) , but they treat certain physical processes in different ways .",
    "the first model , described by benson ( 2002 ) , is very similar to the original cole model except that it includes detailed treatments of photoionization of the intergalactic medium at high redshift and of the dynamics of satellites in haloes .",
    "this model , which will be referred to as the ` bumpy ' model for reasons that will become apparent shortly , was used by benson ( 2003b ) to predict the luminosity function of galaxies in haloes of different mass .",
    "the second model comes from benson ( 2003a ) and will be referred to as the ` superwind ' model .",
    "this has a baryon fraction twice as high as that assumed by cole et al .",
    ", in accordance with recent determinations , and includes a treatment of superwinds .",
    "these suppress the growth of the overly bright galaxies which otherwise tend to form in high baryon fraction models .",
    "[ fig : bcomp ] shows galaxy luminosity functions in groups of different mass in both the semi - analytical models of galaxy formation .",
    "the solid lines correspond to the bumpy model while the dashed lines correspond to the superwind model .",
    "the suppression of bright central galaxies in the superwind model is apparent in the middle and right - hand panels which show the galaxy luminosity functions within groups of mass @xmath63 and @xmath64 respectively .",
    "it is clear that the detailed shapes of the galaxy luminosity functions in groups depend upon the assumptions that go into making a semi - analytical model .",
    "these data can thus be used to test the models . in what follows , the bumpy mock catalogues will be shown unless otherwise stated .    in order to recover faithfully both the amplitude and shape of the galaxy luminosity function in groups of different mass , it is helpful to adopt separate values of @xmath65 and @xmath66 for the various group samples .",
    "for instance , clusters that should contribute to the highest mass bin will have large numbers of members and be detectable to higher redshifts compared to the smaller groups .",
    "thus , the following empirical choices of ( @xmath65 , @xmath66 ) were made for the @xmath67 , @xmath68 and @xmath69 samples respectively : @xmath70 $ ] .",
    "these will be used throughout this section .",
    "the results of these selections can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : bbandb ] , which shows the semi - analytical model luminosity functions in the simulations from which the mock catalogues were created , the luminosity functions actually recovered from the mocks , and the luminosity functions estimated from the 2pigg sample for the same values of @xmath65 and @xmath66 . while the theoretical luminosity functions in the simulations from which the mock catalogues were made differ substantially from schechter functions , the bumps have been largely smeared out in the mock recovered luminosity functions , which now better resemble schechter functions .",
    "this smearing is predominantly the result of contaminating galaxies contributing to haloes with inappropriate masses and homogenizing the samples .",
    "note that the original bumps occur at luminosities that vary with halo mass .",
    "there is a tentative bump detection in the two higher mass group samples .",
    "this excess of luminous galaxies is sufficient to render the schechter function a bad fit , although it does provide a good description of the results for the @xmath71 groups .",
    "overall however , apart from the smearing out of the central galaxy bumps , the shapes and amplitudes of the group galaxy luminosity functions are recovered well from the mock catalogue .",
    "= 8.4 cm    = 19.cm    having determined the efficiency with which group mass - dependent galaxy luminosity functions are recovered , it is now appropriate to consider the real data .",
    "the 2pigg results are shown by the points in fig .",
    "[ fig : bbandb ] .",
    "error bars are the poisson errors on the number of groups contributing galaxies to each luminosity bin . in almost all respects ,",
    "the real 2pigg results look very similar to those recovered from the mock catalogue , shown as dotted lines .",
    "the main difference is the abundance of low luminosity ( @xmath72 ) galaxies in higher mass haloes .",
    "the mock groups contain more of these galaxies than are present in high mass 2piggs .",
    "this difference is apparent in the panels showing the @xmath63 and @xmath73 results .",
    "the evidence for bumps in the 2pigg data is also only tentative .",
    "[ fig : styb ] shows the @xmath74 , @xmath75 and @xmath76 contours in the @xmath77 plane for the sty ( sandage , tammann & yahil 1979 ) fits to the 2pigg galaxy luminosity functions within groups of different mass .",
    "also shown , without a symbol marking the most likely value , are the contours representing the best - fitting parameters for the whole galaxy population out to @xmath78 .",
    "the parameters for the highest mass bin are much less well constrained because there are fewer total galaxies in these groups than in the more abundant , lower mass haloes .",
    "the 2pigg sample has a slightly brighter @xmath1 for the @xmath79 groups than the @xmath71 groups .",
    "this trend is reproduced in the bumpy mock catalogue but not in the superwind mock , in which the most luminous galaxies no longer reside in the most massive haloes .",
    "[ fig : dlfb ] shows how the recovered luminosity functions differ from the suitably normalised best - fitting schechter functions for the 2piggs .",
    "while the fit works well for both mock and real data in the @xmath80 groups , it becomes an increasingly poor description in more massive systems , where an excess of luminous galaxies can be seen to distort the fit . also apparent",
    "is the overabundance of low luminosity galaxies in the most massive mock groups relative to what is found in the 2piggs .",
    "finally , the lack of very luminous galaxies in the superwind mock shows that , despite the imperfections of the recovery , it is still possible to discriminate between this and the bumpy model .      the same analysis performed in section  [ ssec : glfb ] for the @xmath2 band data can be performed for the @xmath3 band data .",
    "while all galaxies can be used to calculate the luminosity functions using the @xmath82 method , the sty estimation of the best - fitting schechter function parameters requires a complete sample , so galaxies are only included if @xmath83 when determining @xmath1 and @xmath84 .",
    "figs  [ fig : rcomp ] ,  [ fig : rbandb ] ,  [ fig : styr ] and  [ fig : dlfr ] are the @xmath3 band equivalents of the previous four figures for the @xmath2 band . apart from larger error ellipses on the recovered schechter function fits , resulting from the smaller number of galaxies being used to ensure a complete sample , the @xmath3 band results are qualitatively very similar to those found in the @xmath2 band .",
    "the 2piggs with @xmath63 again have an average galaxy luminosity function with @xmath1 about @xmath85 per cent higher than that for the @xmath71 groups , and a slightly steeper faint end slope .",
    "the bumpy mock reproduces this scaling of @xmath1 with halo mass , but again contains an excess of low luminosity galaxies in the most massive haloes .",
    "once more , the superwind mock exhibits both an excess of low luminosity galaxies and a deficit of high luminosity galaxies in both of the higher mass bins , relative to the 2pigg sample .",
    "= 8.4 cm    as outlined in the introduction , the mass - to - light ratio of groups , @xmath4 , contains clues to the nature of galaxy formation , and it can also be used to estimate the mean mass density of the universe . this section contains a description of the accuracy with which @xmath4 can be determined from the 2pigg catalogue , and addresses the dependence of @xmath4 on group luminosity , the size of halo in which stars form most efficiently , and the estimate of the mean mass density , @xmath11 .    in trying to recover the typical group mass - to - light ratio for groups of a particular size , there is no reason to use the entire group sample .",
    "one merely requires an unbiased subset of groups .",
    "experimentation with the mock catalogues has yielded an appropriate subset , in which the bias of the results is minimized . in this scheme",
    ", the smaller groups are only used when they are relatively nearby and isolated , whereas the restrictions are less stringent for larger groups .",
    "specifically , of the @xmath47 groups , only those with @xmath86 $ ] and having no neighbouring groups with centres at distances less than @xmath87 $ ] were used to calculate the mass - to - light ratios .",
    "the reasons for the success of this empirical choice are as follows .",
    "many of the small groups are fragments cleaved from much bigger groups by the group - finding algorithm .",
    "these typically have large velocity dispersions , reflecting the size of the halo to which they really belong .",
    "consequently their mass - to - light ratios are unrepresentatively high .",
    "the nearest neighbour distance restriction is intended to eliminate these spurious groups from the analysis .",
    "the reason for the redshift limit is the desire that most underlying groups of a particular size should contain at least two galaxies that will be detected in a flux - limited survey .",
    "the mock catalogues used here are such that the true mass - to - light ratio of low luminosity groups is typically lower for groups containing only one detectable galaxy .",
    "thus , in order to ensure that the low luminosity groups are representative of the underlying distribution , only the nearby low luminosity examples are included .",
    "the following two subsections describe the @xmath2 and @xmath3 band results .",
    "the redder band traces the stellar mass more faithfully than the blue band , and @xmath88 thus provides additional useful information .",
    "= 8.4 cm    = 8.4 cm    fig .",
    "[ fig : molm ] shows the dependence of @xmath89 on group mass .",
    "the horizontal line indicates the mean mass - to - light ratio in the mock universe , and the other solid line represents the variation of the median group @xmath89 with halo mass in the simulation with semi - analytical model galaxies from which the mock catalogues were constructed .",
    "a dotted line traces what is actually recovered from the mock catalogue , and the filled squares show the results from the real 2pigg subsample of groups .",
    "error bars represent the 16th and 84th percentiles divided by the square root of the number of groups in each bin . as a result of the large spread of accuracies in the inferred group masses for groups containing only a few members",
    ", there is a strong smearing effect along a line of gradient one . for the highest mass groups , for which more galaxies yield better mass estimates , this trend is reduced , but there is sufficient contamination from low luminosity groups with greatly overestimated masses , that the recovered @xmath89 is still biased high by @xmath90 per cent .",
    "the main reason why the mock recovered variation resembles the true behaviour in the parent simulation at intermediate masses is that this is where the majority of the groups are found ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : nm ] ) , so there are comparable numbers of groups biasing the results high and low . in summary , this figure demonstrates that it is unhelpful to plot correlated variables when they both suffer from the same large uncertainty .",
    "a much better method for ordering groups in terms of size is to use their measured luminosities ; these have much smaller errors than the group masses , particularly for groups with only two members ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : errorsn ] ) .",
    "now , instead of mass errors smearing out the results along a line of gradient one , there are luminosity uncertainties that act along a line of gradient minus one .",
    "the sign of this gradient is opposite to the trend of @xmath89 with halo luminosity in the parent simulation , and the amplitude of this error vector is now substantially reduced .",
    "[ fig : moll ] shows the corresponding variation of group mass - to - light ratio with group luminosity .    in the semi - analytical model ,",
    "the variation of @xmath89 reflects the efficiency of star formation in haloes of different mass .",
    "star formation is most efficient in haloes with @xmath91 , the point at which the minimum of the solid line occurs .",
    "the dotted line traces the variation of @xmath89 recovered from the group mock catalogue .",
    "it is immediately apparent that this recovery , for haloes with @xmath92 , is very much better than was the case when group mass was used to quantify halo size . in particular ,",
    "both the rise in @xmath89 from small groups to clusters , and the plateau for the largest clusters are well reproduced .",
    "there is a slight bias low , by @xmath93 per cent , during the rise .",
    "this can be understood in terms of the position of the peak in the distribution of groups as a function of luminosity ( fig .",
    "[ fig : nl ] ) , and the typical errors being made , whereby luminosities are slightly overestimated as a result of contamination ( fig .",
    "[ fig : errorsl ] ) .",
    "the recovery of the mass - to - light ratio for groups less luminous than @xmath1 ( for galaxies ) is poor . among the reasons for this",
    "is the fact that the individual redshift measurement errors become comparable with the typical group velocity dispersions in such small systems .",
    "also , there is insufficient volume to achieve small statistical errors while ensuring that these groups contain more than one detectable galaxy .",
    "for the @xmath94 groups with @xmath95>11.5 $ ] in the mock catalogue , the recovered median and mean mass - to - light ratios are @xmath96 and @xmath97 respectively .",
    "the corresponding values in the parent simulation are 507 ( median ) and 520 ( mean ) .",
    "thus , the mean is overestimated in the mocks by @xmath98 per cent , while the recovered median is @xmath99 per cent too low . as the mean is more easily affected by outlying data points with high measurement errors , in what follows only the median cluster mass - to - light ratio will be used .",
    "the estimate of @xmath11 from the cluster mass - to - light ratio is based on comparing this to the mean mass - to - light ratio of the universe . in the parent simulation , the mean universal value is @xmath100 , @xmath48 per cent lower than the median recovered mass - to - light ratio of clusters .",
    "thus , for this mock catalogue at least , the median mass - to - light ratio of the recovered clusters allows a pretty accurate estimate of the mean mass density of the simulated universe .",
    "the filled squares with error bars in fig  [ fig : moll ] represent the real 2pigg mass - to - light results .",
    "these are remarkably similar to what was recovered from the mock catalogue , showing the same three basic features : nothing useful at @xmath9 , a rise by a factor of @xmath101 up to @xmath102 , and a constant mass - to - light ratio for the largest groups .",
    "unlike the case when mass was used to quantify the group size , this trend of increasing median mass - to - light ratio with larger groups can no longer be confused with the effect of mass measurement errors . for the @xmath95>11.5 $ ] groups , of which there are @xmath103 , the median @xmath104 , where the uncertainty represents the statistical error on the median .",
    "this number is used later to estimate @xmath11 .",
    "= 8.4 cm      when comparing these results with other studies , it is essential to bear in mind that there exists a variety of definitions of a group . to reiterate",
    ", the 2pigg analysis is designed to recover , as well as possible , groups that resemble those identified in a @xmath12cdm dark matter simulation using the standard linking length of @xmath105 times the mean interparticle separation .",
    "note that in fig .",
    "[ fig : moll2 ] , the raw 2pigg results are shown for the purpose of comparison with other studies , despite the fact that they probably suffer from a small bias of the sort shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : moll ] . in section  [ ssec : molcor",
    "] , this bias is corrected and functions are given which describe the variation of the corrected median group mass - to - light ratio with group luminosity .",
    "the results of girardi ( 2002 ; g2002 ) , which extend the database used by girardi ( 2000 ) with groups mostly found in the nearby optical galaxy ( nog ) catalogue , contain groups from a number of different surveys . note that these papers both contain a typo relating to the conversion between @xmath16 and @xmath2 magnitudes ( girardi , private communication ) .",
    "the correct relation , for a mean galaxy colour of @xmath106 , is @xmath107 in conjunction with @xmath108 this leads to @xmath109 as was correctly reported in g2002 .",
    "[ fig : moll2 ] shows the data from the ( cl+ps ) sample of g2002 , supplemented with 500 other systems from their set of groups found by applying a percolation algorithm to the nog survey ( girardi , private communication ) .",
    "relative to the homogenous 2pigg sample , this set of groups comes from a number of different sources and , furthermore , they were analyzed using different types of mass and luminosity estimators . yet , a broadly similar behaviour of the mass - to - light ratio is seen .",
    "care is needed , however , because the percolation algorithm of g2002 will presumably yield results that are biased to low mass - to - light ratios , for the same reason that the 2pigg results are affected .",
    "their percolation algorithm ( giuricin 2000 ) employs a scaling of the linking volume with redshift that is different from that used for the 2pigg catalogue ( eke 2004 ) , so the properties of the recovered groups will be different .    sanderson & ponman ( 2003 ) used a sample of @xmath110 systems with masses inferred from their x - ray emission .",
    "these groups are concentrated towards the large mass end of the distribution and show little or no trend of mass - to - light ratio with group luminosity , comparable with the 2pigg results .",
    "again , their results yield slightly lower values of the mass - to - light ratio than found for 2pigg .",
    "note that the point plotted in the figure differs very slightly from that in the sanderson & ponman paper as a result of the correction of an error in their @xmath16 to @xmath2 conversion for 3 groups .",
    "ramella , pisani & geller ( 1997 ) used a sample of @xmath111 groups identified in the northern cfa2 survey , with masses estimated from optical data .",
    "while the median mass - to - light ratio is lower than that of the sanderson & ponman groups , the cfa2 groups are typically smaller and the 2pigg results indicate that @xmath89 should be smaller for such groups .",
    "however , once more , the mass - to - light ratio in this sample is lower than that inferred from the 2pigg catalogue .",
    "marinoni & hudson ( 2002 ) have indirectly inferred a mass - to - light ratio variation for groups by finding the mapping between the press - schechter ( 1974 ) mass function , for some assumed cosmological model , and the luminosity function of groups measured from the nog sample by marinoni ( 2002 ) .",
    "their results are given in the @xmath16 band , and have been converted to the @xmath2 band using equation  ( [ lbtolbj ] ) .",
    "this curve shows a similar trend to the 2pigg results but , again , with an offset . in general , estimators of the luminosity function of groups tend to be biased towards high luminosities as a result of the inevitable inclusion of interlopers in the groups , the statistical errors in the inferred group luminosities and the steep decline in the abundance of objects with increasing size .",
    "this would lead to an overestimate of the luminosity at a particular abundance ( or mass ) , biasing low the inferred mass - to - light ratio . indeed , estimating the luminosity function of groups in mock 2pigg catalogues suggests that this bias could plausibly yield an overestimate of the group luminosity by a factor of at least 2 at a particular abundance ( eke in preparation ) .",
    "if a similar size of bias were present in the sample used by marinoni & hudson , then this would account for their significantly lower mass - to - light ratios at @xmath112 .",
    "one factor that would bias the 2pigg mass - to - light values slightly high is the incompleteness in the parent 2dfgrs catalogue ( pimbblet 2001 ; norberg 2002 ; cross 2004 ) .",
    "such an effect , however , is small compared to the difference between the 2pigg results and those of the other studies shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : moll2 ] .",
    "the most likely other reason why the 2pigg results could be systematically incorrect is if the mass estimator employed here is not appropriate in the real world , as discussed in section  [ sec : data ] .",
    "this would happen if galaxies traced real dark matter haloes in a different way from what was assumed in making the mock catalogues , either because they had a different velocity dispersion to the underlying dark matter , or because they had a different projected spatial distribution ( de lucia 2004 ; diemand , moore & stadel 2004 ) . in order for biases of this kind to give rise to the observed variation of the mass - to - light ratio with group size , however",
    ", they would need to depend very strongly on group size .",
    "it is difficult to imagine that such biases could give rise to the factor of @xmath101 variation seen in the data .",
    "= 8.4 cm    = 8.4 cm    as described in appendix  a , the 2dfgrs combined with the supercosmos @xmath3 data provides a well defined sample of galaxies with @xmath83 . while applying these flux limits reduces the number of galaxies available to calculate the group luminosity , the missing faint galaxies contribute little to the total ,",
    "so the accuracy with which group @xmath3 band luminosities can be inferred is comparable to that for the @xmath2 band , as was shown in section  [ ssec : accu ] .",
    "[ fig : molfinalr ] shows how well the variation of @xmath88 in the parent simulation can be recovered in the mock catalogue , as a function of group @xmath2 luminosity .",
    "( this is a slightly better determined measure of 2pigg size than the @xmath3 luminosity . )",
    "the results are remarkably similar to those shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : moll ] for @xmath89 .",
    "firstly , the intrinsic variation present in the parent simulation is quite accurately recovered in the mocks . secondly ,",
    "as was the case for @xmath89 , the 2pigg data agree remarkably well with the behaviour seen in the mock catalogue .",
    "the main difference between the @xmath3 and @xmath2 results is the size of the change in typical mass - to - light ratio over the reliably probed range of group luminosities .",
    "this is not as extreme in the @xmath3 band , a factor of @xmath113 rather than the factor of @xmath101 seen in the @xmath2 band  as one would expect if halo size has a stronger effect on recent star formation than on the overall stellar mass .",
    "[ fig : molrealr ] compares the 2pigg results with those from cnoc groups and clusters ( carlberg 1996 , 2001 ) and the lcrs groups ( tucker 2000 ) . unlike in the @xmath2 band case , there is now some agreement between the 2piggs and some other work .",
    "note that the carlberg data points have luminosities measured in the gunn @xmath29 band and include a correction to redshift zero , whereas the tucker data are measured in the lcrs @xmath14 band . once again",
    ", the horizontal error bars illustrate the @xmath114th percentile range in group luminosity contributing to each point .",
    "= 8.4 cm      it was shown in sections  [ ssec : molb ] and  [ ssec : molr ] that the values of @xmath4 as a function of @xmath115 recovered in the mock catalogues are slightly biased low relative to the values in the parent simulation .",
    "this bias is reproducible in mocks constructed from other simulations , for example , from the less clustered mass distribution of a @xmath12cdm simulation with @xmath116 analyzed at @xmath117 ( rather than the default simulation with @xmath118 and @xmath119 ) .",
    "it seems plausible that a bias of this kind is also present in the 2pigg sample results .",
    "a correction factor is defined as the ratio between the luminosity - dependent values of @xmath4 measured in the parent simulation and in the mocks ( in both the @xmath2 and @xmath3 bands ) .",
    "the 2pigg results are simply multiplied by this factor to obtain an estimate of the true underlying group mass - to - light ratio variation in the real universe .",
    "the corrected values are shown with open squares ( @xmath2 band ) and crosses ( @xmath3 band ) in fig .",
    "[ fig : molcor ] .",
    "the error bars on the data points still represent the size of the statistical uncertainty on the median .",
    "approximate fits to the corrected 2pigg median mass - to - light ratios are shown by the solid ( @xmath2 ) and dashed ( @xmath3 ) lines , which have the following functional forms : @xmath120\\ } \\cr } \\label{fitmol}\\ ] ] and @xmath121\\}. \\cr } \\label{fitmolr}\\ ] ] these equations are valid for @xmath122 . since the 2pigg results are so similar to those recovered from the mock catalogue , these fits to the underlying ` truth ' in the real universe also provide a decent description of the behaviour in the parent simulation , as traced by the solid lines in figs  [ fig : moll ] and  [ fig : molfinalr ] .",
    "the correction is sufficiently small that all the basic features of the results discussed above remain .",
    "the correction changes the median mass - to - light ratio of the @xmath123 clusters with @xmath95>11.5 $ ] from @xmath124 to @xmath125 .",
    "together with the global mean @xmath2 band luminosity density and its uncertainty , inferred from the luminosity function measured by norberg ( 2002 ) , this implies that @xmath126 . if , as was the case in the mocks , the median mass - to - light ratio of the largest clusters overestimates the mean mass - to - light ratio of the universe by @xmath127 per cent , then this estimate should come down accordingly to @xmath128",
    "this uncertainty only includes the statistical error .",
    "possible sources of systematic uncertainty , in addition to the two model - dependent corrections already applied to the raw 2pigg results , would come from systematic errors in the estimation of the cluster mass - to - light ratios .",
    "these could arise from the underestimate of the cluster luminosities resulting from incompleteness in the parent 2dfgrs catalogue .",
    "in fact , norberg ( 2002 ) do assume a @xmath129 per cent incompleteness in the 2dfgrs parent catalogue when computing the mean @xmath2-band luminosity density of the universe , so for consistency the 2pigg luminosities should be similarly increased .",
    "the resulting lower mass - to - light ratios yield @xmath130 .",
    "another , less readily quantified , potential systematic uncertainty would come from a bias in the mass estimator if real galaxies do not trace dark matter haloes in the way assumed in the mocks . as discussed in section  [ sec : data ] this could plausible be a few tens of per cent .",
    "it is interesting that both this estimate of @xmath11 and its statistical uncertainty are very similar to the values quoted by spergel ( 2003 ) from the combination of wmap microwave background data and the 2dfgrs galaxy power spectrum .",
    "this agreement , in itself , suggests that the systematic uncertainties in either estimate are likely to be small and provides a welcome consistency check of the entire paradigm of structure formation by hierachical clustering from cdm initial conditions .",
    "further reassurance can be gained from using the @xmath3-band mass - to - light ratios of the same set of the most luminous clusters and the @xmath3-band luminosity density of the universe ( see appendix  a ) .",
    "this yields an estimate of @xmath131 , which is consistent with the value inferred from the @xmath2-band data .",
    "this paper presents an analysis of the galactic content of the 2pigg catalogue of groups and clusters identified in the 2dfgrs , focusing on the galaxy luminosity function and total mass - to - light ratio in groups of different size in both the @xmath2 and @xmath3 bands . in constructing the 2pigg catalogue ( eke 2004 ) and in the present analysis , a well defined methodology has been followed based on the extensive use of mock catalogues .",
    "the starting points are n - body simulations of the evolution of dark matter in a @xmath12cdm universe in which model galaxies are added with properties calculated according to a semi - analytical model of galaxy formation based on the precepts laid out in cole ( 2000 ) .",
    "the parent simulation provides a full description of the model galaxy distribution , free from the distortions inevitably introduced by observational procedures , such as selection effects , observational errors , etc .",
    "these distortions are modelled carefully in order to generate mock catalogues that correspond to artificial 2dfgrss .",
    "since the properties of the parent simulation are known , the mock catalogues provide a rigorous way to quantify the systematic uncertainties in the derived properties of interest as well as a good guide to possible systematic errors .",
    "of course , the mock catalogues also enable a detailed comparison between the real data and the model from which the mocks were generated .",
    "the main results of this paper are :    \\(1 ) the galaxy luminosity function is different in groups of different mass .",
    "these luminosity functions are moderately well described by schechter functions for which , as the group mass increases , the characteristic luminosity , @xmath1 , increases and the faint end slope , @xmath84 , becomes more negative .",
    "however , the galaxy luminosity functions in the groups found in the original simulations are not well described by schechter functions .",
    "for example , they exhibit a ` bump ' at the bright end whose amplitude varies with group mass reflecting the relative importance of the central galaxy and the satellites in the groups .",
    "hints of bumps are also found in the largest 2pigg clusters .",
    "+ ( 2 ) the median group mass - to - light ratio , @xmath4 , also varies with halo size ( which is most robustly characterized by total @xmath2 halo luminosity ) .",
    "the mock catalogues indicate that , in the 2pigg catalogue , @xmath4 is reliably determined for groups of size ranging from that of the local group to the richest clusters in the survey . over this range , which extends from @xmath132 to @xmath133 ,",
    "@xmath134 increases by a factor of @xmath7 whereas @xmath88 increases by a factor of @xmath8 . at the highest luminosities ,",
    "@xmath4 becomes roughly constant in both bands .",
    "the semi - analytical models predict an upturn in @xmath4 at luminosities lower than @xmath135 at which galaxy formation is most efficient .",
    "unfortunately , the 2pigg catalogue does not contain enough small groups with sufficiently accurate estimates of @xmath4 to locate the theoretically expected minimum .",
    "+ ( 3 ) for the @xmath136 objects , the median mass - to - light ratio is @xmath137 ( statistical ) @xmath138 , independently of cluster size .",
    "assuming that this value reflects the cosmic mean ( that @xmath4 in these richest clusters has converged to the global value ) allows a determination of the mean cosmic density , @xmath11 . adopting the @xmath2 luminosity density inferred from the 2dfgrs galaxy luminosity function by norberg ( 2002 ) , leads to @xmath130 .",
    "( this estimate includes two small corrections derived from the mock catalogues as discussed in section  [ ssec : molcor ] , and a third small correction for incompleteness in the 2dfgrs parent catalogue . )",
    "this value and its uncertainty are in excellent agreement with the values inferred by spergel ( 2003 ) from a combination of microwave background data and the galaxy power spectrum in the 2dfgrs .",
    "the agreement of the 2pigg results with the predictions of the simulations is impressive , and provides confidence in the basic picture of galaxy groups tracing virialized haloes of dark matter .",
    "the simulations suggest two fruitful avenues for improving upon this work : ( i ) probe smaller groups to test whether the @xmath139 ratio does indeed pass through the expected minimum around a group mass of @xmath55 ; ( ii ) create catalogues with better resolved groups to see if the non - schechter nature of the theoretically predicted luminosity functions can be revealed .",
    "both these targets will require new large redshift surveys that probe substantially further down the luminosity function than is possible with the current dataset .",
    "the 2df galaxy redshift survey was made possible through the dedicated efforts of the staff of the anglo - australian observatory , both in creating the 2df instrument and in supporting it on the telescope .",
    "vre and cmb are royal society university research fellows .",
    "pn is a zwicky fellow .",
    "jap is a pparc senior research fellow .",
    "adami c. , mazure a. , biviano a. , katgert p. , rhee g. , 1998 , a&a , 331 , 493    balogh m.l .",
    ", christlein d. , zabludoff a.i . , zaritsky d. , 2001 , apj , 557 , 117    beers t.c .",
    ", flynn k. , gebhardt k. , 1990 , aj , 100 , 32    benson a.j .",
    ", cole s. , frenk c.s . ,",
    "baugh c.m . ,",
    "lacey c.g . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 311 , 793    benson a.j . , lacey c.g . ,",
    "baugh c.m . , cole s. , frenk c.s . , 2002 ,",
    "mnras , 333 , 156    benson , a. j. , bower , r. g. , frenk , c. s. , lacey , c. g. , baugh , c. m. , cole , s. 2003 , apj , 599 , 38 ( 2003a )    benson a.j . ,",
    "frenk c.s . ,",
    "baugh c.m . , cole s. , lacey c.g .",
    ", 2003 , mnras , 343 , 679 ( 2003b )    blanton m.r .",
    "2001 , aj , 121 , 2358    blanton m.r .",
    "2003 , apj , 592 , 819    bruzual g.a . , charlot s. , 1993 , apj , 405 , 538    carlberg r.g .",
    ", yee h.k.c .",
    ", ellingson e. , abraham r. , gravel p. , morris s. , pritchet c.j . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 462 , 32    carlberg r.g . ,",
    "yee h.k.c . ,",
    "morris s.l .",
    ", lin h. , hall p.b . , patton d.r . , sawicki m. , shepherd c.w . , 2001 , apj , 552 , 427    christlein d. , 2000 , apj , 545 , 145    christlein d. , zabludoff a.i .",
    ", 2003 , apj , 591 , 764    cirimele , g. , nesci r. , trvese d. , 1997 , apj , 475 , 11    colless m. ( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 1039    colless m. ( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2003 , astro - ph/0306581    cole s. , lacey c.g . , baugh c.m .",
    ", frenk c.s . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 319 , 168    cole s. ( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 255    cross n.j.g . , 2004 , mnras , in press ( astro - ph/0312317 )    david l.p .",
    ", jones c. , forman w. , 1995 , apj , 445 , 578    davis , m. , efstathiou , g. , frenk , c. s. , white , s. d. m. , 1985 , apj , 292 , 371    de lucia g. , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 333    de propris r. ( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 725    diaferio a. , kauffmann g. , colberg j.m .",
    ", white s.d.m . , 1999 ,",
    "mnras , 307 , 529    diemand j. , moore b. , stadel j. , 2004 , mnras , submitted ( astro - ph/0402160 )    eke v.r . ( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2004 , mnras , in press    girardi m. , borgani s. , giuricin g. , mardirossian f. , mezzetti m. , 2000 , apj , 530 , 62    girardi m. , manzato p. , mezzetti m. , giuricin g. , limboz f. , 2002 , apj , 569 , 720    giuricin g. , marinoni c. , ceriani l. , pisani a. , 2000 , apj , 543 , 178    hambly n.c .",
    ", irwin m.j . , macgillivray h.t . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 326 , 1295    hoekstra h. , franx m. , kuijken k. , van dokkum p.g . , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 911    hradecky v. , jones c. , donnelly r.h .",
    ", djorgovski s.g . ,",
    ", odewahn s.c .",
    ", 2000 , apj , 543 , 521    jenkins a. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 20    kauffmann g. , white s.d.m . , guiderdoni b. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201    kauffmann g. , colberg j.m . , diaferio a. , white s.d.m . , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 188    kneib j .-",
    ", 2003 , apj , 598 , 804    kochanek c.s . , 2001 , apj , 560 , 566    marinoni c. , hudson m.j .",
    ", giuricin g. , 2002 , apj , 569 , 91    marinoni c. , hudson m.j . , 2002 , apj , 569 , 101    norberg p. ( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 907    pimbblet k.a . , smail i. , edge a.c . , couch w.j . , ohely e. , zabludoff a.i . , 2001 , mnras , 327 , 588    press w.h . , schechter p. , 1974 ,",
    "apj , 187 , 425    ramella m. , pisani a. , geller m.j . , 1997 , aj , 113 , 483    rauzy s. , 2001 , mnras , 324 , 51    sandage a. , tammann g.a . , yahil a. , 1979 , apj , 232 , 352 ( sty )    sanderson a.j.r . , ponman t.j . , 2003 , mnras , 345 , 1241    schaeffer r. , maurogordato s. , cappi a. , bernardeau f. , 1993 , mnras , 263 , l21    smith r.m .",
    ", driver s.p . , phillipps s. , 1997 , mnras , 287 , 415    spergel d.n . 2003 , apjs , 148 , 175    trentham n. , tully r.b . , 2002 , mnras , 335 , 712    tucker d.l . , 2000 , apjs , 130 , 237    tully r.b . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , submitted ( astro - ph/0312441 )    white , s. d. m. & frenk , c. s. 1991 , apj , 379 , 52    zabludoff a.i .",
    ", mulchaey j.s . , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 539 , 136",
    "= 8.4 cm    as the 2dfgrs is a @xmath2 selected survey , extra consideration is required in order to include the supercosmos @xmath3 band data in the analysis .",
    "for instance , it is necessary to determine an appropriate local flux limit to which the @xmath3 band data are complete .",
    "the term complete is used here without reference to the well - quantified incompleteness in the redshifts measured for objects in the 2dfgrs parent catalogue , and the possible incompleteness in the parent catalogue itself .",
    "a local @xmath3 band flux limit is determined from the distribution of observed galaxy colours .",
    "fig  [ fig : appcol ] shows the cumulative distribution of the galaxy @xmath140 values for the sets of @xmath45 galaxies in both the mock and the 2dfgrs data . as at least @xmath141 per cent of galaxies",
    "are bluer than @xmath142 , the local minimum @xmath3 band flux limit is set equal to @xmath143 . from this figure",
    ", one can also infer that the bright @xmath144 limit can essentially be transferred into the @xmath3 band , such that the @xmath3 band sample is also complete for @xmath145 .",
    "thus , a ` complete ' @xmath3-limited sample can be made to a locally defined flux limit corresponding to @xmath83 .",
    "this lower flux limit removes about @xmath146 per cent of the galaxies from the sample , whereas only @xmath147 per cent were discarded for being brighter than the upper flux limit .    having found flux limits defining a complete @xmath3 band sample , the intention is , as before , to tot up the galaxy luminosities taking into account the weights associated with the redshift incompleteness , and then apply the appropriate schechter function correction for the galaxies that are too faint to make the flux cut .",
    "however , the galaxies included above the @xmath3 flux limit are now a bright subsample of the 2dfgrs parent catalogue .",
    "thus , they are no longer drawn from the same population as the subsample of parent catalogue galaxies without measured redshifts , and so equation  ( [ easyw ] ) is no longer an unbiased way to correct for this redshift incompleteness .",
    "this complication was sidestepped by redistributing only the weights of galaxies without redshifts and with @xmath83 .",
    "thus , the subsample of galaxies with redshifts and sufficiently high @xmath3 band fluxes is now a similar population to those galaxies without redshifts whose weights are redistributed . as only about @xmath148 of the 2dfgrs galaxies",
    "satisfy the @xmath3 flux limits , the weights were redistributed to the nearest @xmath99 projected galaxies only .",
    "this should match the angular smoothing scale with that used in the @xmath2 band .",
    "in addition to the correction for redshift incompletion , galaxies below the flux limit also need to be accounted for in determining the total group luminosity .",
    "this was accomplished by assuming that the galaxy luminosity function in the groups can be fitted by a schechter function with @xmath149 .",
    "this is the sty - estimated schechter function for the @xmath3 band galaxy luminosity function of all @xmath45 galaxies in the 2dfgrs . in calculating this ,",
    "the following @xmath40-correction , derived using bruzual & charlot ( 1993 ) models , was used : @xmath150 choosing a normalisation to match the luminosity function amplitude inferred using a @xmath61 estimator leads to @xmath151 .",
    "this value , which neglects the incompleteness in the parent catalogue of the 2dfgrs , gives a mean @xmath3 luminosity density in the universe of @xmath152 .",
    "as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : apprlf ] , the @xmath3 band luminosity functions estimated using the @xmath61 method are similar in the 2dfgrs and the mock catalogue ( which yields @xmath153 and @xmath154 ) . for the @xmath3 band , @xmath155 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the 2dfgrs percolation - inferred galaxy group ( 2pigg ) catalogue of @xmath0 objects is used to study the luminous content of galaxy systems of various sizes . </S>",
    "<S> mock galaxy catalogues constructed from cosmological simulations are used to gauge the accuracy with which intrinsic group properties can be recovered . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that a schechter function is a reasonable fit to the galaxy luminosity functions in groups of different mass in the real data , and that the characteristic luminosity @xmath1 is larger for more massive groups . </S>",
    "<S> however , the mock data show that the shape of the recovered luminosity function is expected to differ from the true shape , and this must be allowed for when interpreting the data . </S>",
    "<S> luminosity function results are presented in both the @xmath2 and @xmath3 wavebands . </S>",
    "<S> the variation of halo mass - to - light ratio , @xmath4 , with group size is studied in both these wavebands . </S>",
    "<S> a robust trend of increasing @xmath4 with increasing group luminosity is found in the 2pigg data . </S>",
    "<S> going from groups with @xmath2 luminosities equal to @xmath5 to those @xmath6 times more luminous , the typical @xmath2-band mass - to - light ratio increases by a factor of @xmath7 , whereas the @xmath3-band mass - to - light ratio grows by a factor of @xmath8 . </S>",
    "<S> these trends agree well with the predictions of the simulations which also predict a minimum in the mass - to - light ratio on a scale roughly corresponding to the local group . </S>",
    "<S> our data indicate that if such a minimum exists , then it must occur at @xmath9 , below the range accurately probed by the 2pigg catalogue . according to the mock data , </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath2 mass - to - light ratios of the largest groups are expected to be approximately 1.1 times the global value . assuming that this correction applies to the real data , the mean @xmath2 luminosity density of the universe yields an estimate of @xmath10 . </S>",
    "<S> various possible sources of systematic error are considered , with the conclusion that these can affect the estimate of @xmath11 by up to 20% .    </S>",
    "<S> ii @th # 1    galaxies : groups  galaxies : haloes  galaxies : clusters : general  large - scale structure of universe . </S>"
  ]
}