{
  "article_text": [
    "more than three decades have passed since the first suggestions that black hole accretion is a ubiquitous astrophysical phenomenon ( e.g. lynden - bell 1969 ) , and there is now substantial and compelling observational evidence for it .",
    "the range of permissible masses for compact , unseen companions puts many binary systems squarely in the black hole domain ( e.g. cyg x-1 , a0620 - 00 ; van paradijs & mcclintock 1995 ) , while stellar kinematical observations of galactic cores ( reviewed by tremaine 1997 ) imply large amounts of mass ( @xmath0 ) concentrated in small ( parsec - sized ) volumes .",
    "indirect indications of accretion include copious nonthermal radiation from active galactic nuclei , relativistic expansion , and jets .",
    "iron line observations ( e.g. , tanaka et al .",
    "1995 ) show how , in principle , observations can probe directly the physics of the strong - field region , distinguishing black hole accretion from accretion onto white dwarfs or neutron stars .    with the emergence of a unified model to account for the wide variety of observational characteristics of both x - ray binaries and active galactic nuclei ( agn )",
    ", it becomes increasingly important to support theory and observation with detailed numerical simulations of the physics of black hole accretion .",
    "distinctive and astrophysically interesting effects are expected from accretion flows in the kerr metric , and modeling will require development of new fully general relativistic ( gr ) simulation codes .",
    "this becomes especially relevant in light of results that suggest that most galactic core black holes are rotating ( elvis , risaliti , & zamorani 2002 ) .",
    "most of the simulations to date of relativistic black hole accretion have been for hydrodynamics alone .",
    "extensive work was done in the 1980s on the numerical simulation of hydrodynamics around black holes ( hawley , smarr & wilson 1984a , 1984b ; hereafter hswa and hswb ) .",
    "this work was based on numerical techniques developed through the pioneering efforts of wilson ( 1972 ) .",
    "the hswb gr hydrodynamics code was written in spherical polar boyer - lindquist coordinates , and used operator - split finite - differencing on a staggered grid , with piecewise linear representations for the fundamental variables .",
    "the gr hydrodynamic studies using this code ( hswb ; hawley & smarr 1986 ; hawley 1986 ) were two - dimensional ( assuming axisymmetry ) and dealt with the prompt infall of rotating gas toward a central black hole , the role of the centrifugal barrier , centrifugally - driven outflows , and the formation of pressure supported thick disks or tori .",
    "since then , there have been other axisymmetric gr hydrodynamic simulations using a similar numerical approach ( yokosawa 1995 ; igumenshchev & beloborodov 1997 ) .",
    "it is now recognized that magnetic fields play an essential role in the outward transport of angular momentum in accretion disks through the action of the magnetorotational instability of balbus and hawley ( 1991 ) .",
    "this implies the need for a general relativistic magnetohydrodynamics ( mhd ) simulation code . here",
    "again , wilson did pioneering work , carrying out two - dimensional simulations of magnetized accretion over two and a half decades ago ( wilson 1975 ; 1977 ; 1978 ) .",
    "the task was arguably beyond the computers then available , however .",
    "only recently have research groups returned to full gr mhd simulations ( e.g. , koide , shibata , & kudoh 1999 ; komissarov 1999 ) .    rather than employing full relativity ,",
    "the most recent three - dimensional global black hole mhd accretion simulations ( e.g. , hawley & balbus 2002 ) use a pseudo - newtonian potential that can emulate certain important characteristics of the schwarzschild metric . computing a three dimensional mhd accretion flow in a full kerr metric",
    "is a more ambitious undertaking .",
    "it is our aim to develop a new three - dimensional gr mhd code to enable such global accretion disk studies .",
    "this paper represents a first step , specifically the initial development and application of the hydrodynamic portion of a kerr metric gr code .",
    "the culmination of the earlier gr hydrodynamics effort was a fully three - dimensional numerical investigation ( hawley 1991 ; hereafter h91 ) of the papaloizou - pringle instability ( papaploizou & pringle 1984 ) for accretion tori in a schwarzschild metric . in this paper",
    "we extend those simulations to kerr ( rotating ) black holes , and consider the effect of black hole angular momentum on prograde and retrograde torus orbits .",
    "the papaloizou - pringle instability ( ppi ) remains an interesting topic of research , and it provides a nontrivial application of full three - dimensional general - relativistic hydrodynamics .",
    "the plan of this paper is as follows . in ",
    "2 we outline the equations and the general numerical procedures . in ",
    "3 we discuss the properties of equilibrium gas tori in the kerr metric , and the properties of the papaloizou - pringle instability to which these tori are vulnerable . the results of a series of numerical simulations of tori in the kerr metric are presented in  4 , and these results are discussed in  5 .",
    "we wish to study the evolution of a fluid in the background spacetime of a kerr ( rotating ) black hole .",
    "we adopt boyer - lindquist coordinates , @xmath1 , for which the line element has the form , @xmath2 in keeping with misner , thorne , & wheeler ( 1973 ) , we use the metric signature @xmath3 , along with geometrodynamic units where @xmath4 ; the black hole mass is unity , @xmath5 .",
    "the determinant of the 4-metric is @xmath6 , and @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the lapse function , @xmath9 , and @xmath10 is the determinant of the spatial @xmath11-metric .    for a relativistic test fluid described by a density @xmath12 , specific internal energy @xmath13 , and @xmath14-velocity @xmath15",
    ", we define the transport velocity @xmath16 as follows : @xmath17 where @xmath18 , and @xmath19 is the gravitational redshift factor , @xmath20 we also define the momentum , @xmath21 and auxiliary density and energy functions @xmath22 and @xmath23 .    using these variables the conservation laws can be rewritten into a form suitable for finite differencing . the equation for mass conservation is written @xmath24 conservation of the fluid energy - momentum tensor @xmath25 yields momentum conservation equations , @xmath26 and an internal energy conservation equation @xmath27 spatial indices are indicated by roman characters @xmath28 .",
    "we assume an ideal gas equation of state @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is the adiabatic exponent .",
    "this is the same system of equations as described in hswa .",
    "the gr hydrodynamics code evolves time - explicit , operator - split , finite difference forms of equations ( [ masscons])([encons ] ) .",
    "the algorithm is a three - dimensional generalization of the solver described in hswb , with some additional modifications .",
    "for example , velocity renormalization , @xmath31 , which is invoked in the source and transport steps following the solution of the discretized momentum equation ( [ momcons ] ) is now implemented using the algebraically equivalent condition @xmath32 for improved numerical stability .",
    "several improvements are possible because of the increase in computer power since 1984 .",
    "analytically determined metric terms and metric derivatives are now calculated and stored at all needed grid locations rather than averaged .",
    "array operations have also been streamlined wherever possible using fortran 90 array syntax .",
    "the code uses message passing parallelism with a form of domain decomposition , where the global grid is partitioned into subgrids , with each subgrid assigned to a processor .",
    "data on each subgrid is evolved independently during the source and transport phases of a timestep and data on subgrid boundaries is exchanged at the end of each phase through message - passing calls .",
    "this results in a highly scalable code that exhibits good speedup over the full range of practically realizable subgrids .",
    "the present simulations have been designed as a follow - on to the results in h91 , but unlike the code used there , we do not need to impose equatorial symmetry .",
    "the calculations performed on a @xmath33 @xmath34-grid in h91 correspond to a @xmath35 grid here .",
    "the ergosphere can be part of the computational domain , but at the event horizon , @xmath36 , some of the boyer - lindquist metric terms are singular , so the inner edge of the radial grid must lie at some point outside the horizon , continuing out to some selected outer grid boundary . although the horizon itself can never be part of the computational grid ,",
    "tests indicate that it is possible to come arbitrarily close to the horizon ( e.g. , @xmath37 for the schwarzschild case ) . but",
    "this comes at a steep price : the narrow region where the metric terms diverge rapidly must be covered by a large number of grid zones ( in the extreme kerr limit , the number of zones inside the ergosphere could be as high as the number of zones that lie outside it ) .",
    "in addition to consuming large amounts of memory in a three dimensional simulation , these innermost grid zones can significantly reduce the time step size , greatly increasing the total computational time .",
    "the specific location of the inner edge of the grid is determined by a balance between the physical phenomena of interest in a simulation and the memory and performance demands . for the hydrodynamic torus simulations considered here ,",
    "the region near the horizon is of secondary interest , so the inner grid boundary , @xmath38 , was set at or just inside the static limit on the equator , @xmath39 . in the runs reported here , this ranged from @xmath40 for the smaller grids to @xmath41 for the larger grids .",
    "the polar grid extends almost to the rotational axes at @xmath42 and @xmath43 , but the axes themselves are not included . as in non - relativistic codes , the polar axes are problematic due to the shrinking of zone volumes , and the collapse of the inner radial zone face at @xmath44 .",
    "these problems are further compounded by the fact that , here again , some metric components are singular .",
    "torus stability studies do not require the axes , and their omission is not important to the present simulations .",
    "regularized operators will be introduced in future work .",
    "the radial and polar grids use logarithmic scaling for all runs in order to concentrate zones near the horizon and the equator . the azimuthal angle @xmath45 spans the full range from @xmath46 to @xmath47 with equally - spaced grid zones and periodic boundary conditions .",
    "previous studies of the papaloizou - pringle instability show that using the full @xmath45 range _ is _ important as the most important unstable modes have azimuthal wavenumber @xmath48 .",
    "the time step @xmath49 is determined by the extremal light - crossing time for a grid zone , as described in hswb .",
    "this time step size remains fixed for the duration of the simulation since it is a purely geometric result .",
    "the initial state for a simulation is generated from the thick disk equilibrium solution ( described in  3 ) with given input parameters .",
    "this initial configuration is then perturbed with small , random enthalpy fluctuations with a maximum amplitude of 1% .",
    "these perturbations are the seeds from which the full ppi will develop .",
    "the initial stationary , axisymmetric analytic torus solution is presented in hswa . for convenience ,",
    "the essential results are repeated here .",
    "the initial state for the simulations is a stationary , axisymmetric solution ( @xmath50 ) to equations ( [ masscons])([encons ] ) with no internal poloidal motion , i.e. @xmath51 . the combined centrifugal and gravitational accelerations ( which together make up an effective potential ) are balanced by pressure gradients , keeping the disk in equilibrium . to develop this solution ,",
    "define the specific angular momentum ( @xmath52 ) and angular velocity ( @xmath53 ) , as @xmath54 @xmath55 applying the orthogonality condition @xmath56 leads directly to the following expression for @xmath57 @xmath58 which is related to the binding energy , @xmath59 .",
    "here , we note that equation ( 94a ) of hswa should be extended to allow a more general disk outer boundary , which is specified by the binding energy at the surface @xmath60 .",
    "the more general form of equation ( 94a ) is @xmath61 for a constant entropy adiabatic gas the pressure is given by @xmath62 , and density is given by @xmath63}^{1/(\\gamma - 1)}$ ] .",
    "these relations completely specify the initial equilibrium torus .",
    "a particular constant angular momentum thick disk solution is specified by choosing the angular momentum @xmath52 , the binding energy at the surface of the torus ( as above ) , and the entropy parameter @xmath64 . in keeping with hswb ,",
    "@xmath65 is fixed for all simulations , so only the specific angular momentum @xmath52 , surface binding energy @xmath66 , and the kerr parameter @xmath67 are varied .",
    "the stability of tori with constant specific angular momentum @xmath52 has been of interest since the work of papaloizou and pringle ( 1984 ) , who established that these tori are unstable to non - axisymmetric global modes .",
    "it has since been demonstrated that although other angular momentum distributions are also unstable , the constant-@xmath52 tori are the most susceptible to the ppi .",
    "subsequent work , notably narayan , goldreich , and goodman ( 1987 ) , consolidated the central features of the instability into the following picture .",
    "the global unstable modes have a co - rotation radius within the torus ; the co - rotation is located in a narrow region where waves can not propagate ; this region separates inner and outer regions where wave propagation is possible ; waves can tunnel through the corotation zone and interact with waves in the other region ; and the transmitted modes are amplified only if there is a feedback mechanism , usually in the form of a reflecting boundary at the inner and/or outer edge of the torus .",
    "however , linear stability analysis can go only so far , and numerical work is required to probe the non - linear effects that help determine the final amplitude of the global modes , and hence the cumulative effect of the instability on the torus .",
    "hawley ( 1987 ) carried out a relativistic numerical study of the evolution of the ppi into the fully non - linear regime in 2d height - integrated disks .",
    "although this paper verified that the azimuthally averaged rotation law ( @xmath68 ) exhibits the expected effects of angular momentum redistribution ( @xmath69 ) , it also showed that the distribution of matter was not azimuthally symmetric , but instead took the form of counter - rotating epicyclic vortices , or `` planets '' , with @xmath70 planets emerging from the growth of a mode of order @xmath70 .",
    "the stability of thick tori in general relativity was studied by blaes and hawley ( 1988 ) who evolved unstable tori in a two - dimensional @xmath71 schwarzshild metric .",
    "this work led to the full three dimensional simulations in h91 .",
    "the present work extends these calculations to include the effects of nonzero black hole angular momentum . although we do not repeat the linear analysis of blaes and hawley ( 1988 ) with a non - zero kerr parameter @xmath67 , we know from previous work that mode growth depends very sensitively on the initial torus parameters .",
    "black hole rotation simply adds additional complexity .",
    "a point of particular interest has been the effect of accretion on the evolution of the ppi .",
    "blaes ( 1987 ) computed growth rates for two - dimensional tori in the schwarzschild metric and found that they went to zero for models with even a small net accretion flow past the location of the marginally - stable orbit . it was argued that the loss of the inner reflecting boundary through the development of an accretion flow suppresses mode growth .",
    "this result was subsequently confirmed analytically by gat and livio ( 1992 ) for a newtonian potential . in the three - dimensional case ,",
    "things are not so clear cut .",
    "h91 argues that since the accretion flow is confined to the equatorial plane , there is still a reflecting boundary above and below the plane .",
    "however , dwarkadas & balbus ( 1996 ) argued that the stabilizing effect of an accretion flow is due more to the dynamics at the corotation point than to the absence of reflection .",
    "one of the goals of h91 was to study the effect of the proximity of the cusp in the relativistic potential to the inner edge of the torus , and how accretion into the black hole affects mode growth .",
    "thus the majority of the h91 runs dealt with tori with angular momentum above the marginally bound value , that is the smallest specific angular momentum for which a particle orbit has an inner turning point . in h91 ,",
    "an initial torus configuration was specified by choosing the angular momentum and the surface binding energy . here",
    ", the structural properties of the initial torus are also influenced by the kerr parameter .",
    "we therefore need to understand the interdependence of @xmath52 , @xmath72 , and @xmath67 in order to specify initial configurations for the simulations .    to help guide the choice of @xmath52 , it is useful to consider the quantity @xmath73 that gives the specific angular momentum for a test particle on a marginally bound orbit .",
    "particles on retrograde orbits require larger absolute values of the specific angular momentum to remain out of the hole than do particles on prograde orbits .",
    "this can be seen in figure [ lmb ] , which plots the dependence of @xmath73 on the kerr parameter @xmath67 ; the relation @xmath74 can be found , for instance , in frolov and novikov ( 1998 ) .",
    "the quantity @xmath73 also helps distinguish families of tori that have stable orbits from those that do not .",
    "tori with @xmath75 are referred to as marginal tori from hereon .",
    "the ppi affects slender , intermediate , and wide tori in different ways , so the choice of torus dimensions is important .",
    "given a value for @xmath52 , the choice of surface binding energy , @xmath76 , sets the overall size of the disk .",
    "figure [ utlim ] illustrates how different choices of @xmath76 determine the width of the torus , here shown for @xmath77 and a range of choices for @xmath67 .",
    "this illustration reinforces the notion that the torus is created by  filling \" a local minimum in the energy surface ; it also shows that an inner bound for a torus may not exist as @xmath67 is made increasingly negative , and the reason for this is best seen in the next figure .",
    "the role of the kerr parameter @xmath67 on the disk configuration is illustrated by figure [ isobars1 ] , which shows equipotentials for disks with @xmath78 , and the same values of @xmath67 as figure [ utlim ] .",
    "the equipotentials are defined by the boyer energy parameter @xmath79 .",
    "this figure presents polar `` slices '' through the axisymmetric disk .",
    "the set of level contours is the same in each plot , so the effect of @xmath67 is readily apparent : the equipotentials shrink in the prograde case , and expand in the retrograde case , a result consistent with what was shown in figure [ utlim ] for the equatorial plane .",
    "so , for a given choice of surface binding energy , a retrograde torus would be larger , and a prograde torus would be more compact , than the schwarzschild case .    in h91",
    "the value of @xmath78 was chosen since it corresponded to a bound torus in the schwarzschild metric .",
    "figures [ lmb ] and [ utlim ] hint that this choice of @xmath52 may not correspond to bound tori for all values of @xmath67 down to @xmath80 .",
    "figure [ isobars1 ] further reinforces this observation , and also provides a clearer picture : many of the contours for the @xmath81 case are open onto the black hole , and the viable range of parameters for which a bound torus can be constructed is growing smaller . for choices of @xmath67 below @xmath82",
    "virtually all contours are open onto the hole , so an equilibrium initial state can not be constructed .",
    "the transition from closed to open contours can best be seen in figure [ isobars2 ] , which shows a plot of equipotentials for @xmath52 at and just below the marginally bound value for a disk orbiting a kerr hole with @xmath83 ( the point in figure [ lmb ] where the @xmath73 curve passes through @xmath78 ) .",
    "the effect near the cusp is striking : a small reduction in @xmath52 below the marginally bound value opens a pathway to the black hole in the equatorial plane , so that a disk whose structural parameters give it an inner bound near @xmath84 would not be expected to remain in equilibrium , and any small departure from equilibrium would trigger accretion .",
    "the opening of the potential cusp can also be accomplished by choosing @xmath85 for an @xmath77 torus , which explains the shape of the contours in the left panel of figure [ isobars1 ] .",
    "finally the analytic thick disk solution is characterized by a number of derived parameters .",
    "one is the location of the pressure maximum , @xmath86 , which is obtained by root - finding using the condition @xmath87 since the pressure and energy maxima are coincident . the angular frequency at the pressure maximum , @xmath88 , and the orbital period at the pressure maximum , @xmath89 .",
    "time in the simulations will be reported in terms of this orbital period .",
    "the boundaries of the disk in the equatorial plane are @xmath90 and @xmath91 .",
    "since @xmath90 is an input parameter ( through the choice of @xmath72 ) , a simple plot of @xmath92 helps locate @xmath91 , which is in turn used to specify the required outer boundary of the radial grid ( usually set at about @xmath93 ) .",
    "the kerr gr hydrodynamics code is used to study the evolution of the papaloizou - pringle instability in thick tori . in keeping with h91 ,",
    "the evolution of the instability is characterized by several reduced quantities extracted from the simulation data .",
    "these include the maximum density enhancement at mode saturation , @xmath94 , the fourier power in density for the azimuthal wavenumbers , @xmath48 and @xmath95 , @xmath96 , the angular velocity distibution parameter at mode saturation , and the mass flux in the equatorial plane ( to help shed light on the relationship between accretion and the growth of the ppi ) . in all models ,",
    "the calculations are done @xmath97 times per orbit at the initial pressure maximum .",
    "the only exception is the mass flux , which is computed once per orbit .",
    "the density enhancement , @xmath94 , is obtained by finding the maximum density at in the data arrays , and computing @xmath98 .",
    "we extract the @xmath48 and @xmath99 fourier modes by computing azimuthal averages using the numerical equivalents of @xmath100 the mode power is then @xmath101 a linear fit is performed to the time - sequenced data to extract a mode growth rate . for this calculation @xmath90 and @xmath91 are the initial values for the inner and outer edges of the torus in the equatorial plane .    in h91 ,",
    "the parameter @xmath96 was obtained by a radial power law fit to the azimuthally averaged angular velocity , @xmath102 , at mode saturation .",
    "this parameter was used to characterize deviations from a purely keplerian profile .",
    "since h91 dealt with schwarzschild black holes , the angular velocity for the equilibrium fat disk had a simple form , @xmath103 , i.e. the usual keplerian profile multiplied by the redshift factor .",
    "it was therefore straightforward to compare the final disk profile against the keplerian case . with kerr black holes ,",
    "the equilibrium fat disk has a more complicated radial dependence , @xmath104 .",
    "however , since the aim is to measure a change in the equatorial angular velocity profile , we adapt the procedure . as with h91",
    ", we obtain the azimuthally averaged angular velocity using the numerical equivalent of @xmath105 a power - law fit @xmath102 is obtained from the slope of a log - log plot of @xmath106 for @xmath107 at the time step corresponding to mode saturation .",
    "we also extract the initial value @xmath108 in an analogous manner , and report the change @xmath109 as a measure of the redistribution of angular velocity .",
    "the azimuthally - averaged mass flux in the equatorial plane is computed using the numerical equivalent of @xmath110 in the figures below @xmath111 is plotted at a radius @xmath112 lying just inside the initial inner edge of the torus @xmath90 and is used to establish the presence of a flow of matter towards the black hole .",
    "before proceeding with the simulations in the kerr metric , test runs were carried out with @xmath113 to establish that this new version of the gr hydrodynamics solver was able to reproduce the original results in h91 .",
    "these tests were successful and are not elaborated upon here .",
    "the parameters for the 3d runs in h91 , summarized in table 1 , fall into two broad categories that are distinguished by specific angular momentum .",
    "the @xmath78 models , a3 , b3 , and c3 , are tori with innermost radii ( in the equatorial plane ) of @xmath114 , @xmath115 , and @xmath116 respectively ; these represent slender , intermediate , and wide tori .",
    "the marginal model , e3 , is a wide torus with @xmath117 .",
    ".disk parameters in h91 .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > , > , > , > , > , < \" , ]",
    "model b3r is a slender torus rotating in the retrograde sense around a kerr black hole with @xmath118 .",
    "the torus has an initial maximum density of @xmath119 at @xmath120 .",
    "figure [ b3r](a ) shows that at mode saturation a planet has formed , with a density maximum at @xmath121 and a fractional density enhancement of @xmath122 .",
    "the planet has a crescent shape with some evidence of a tightly - wrapped outward spiral wave in the lower left quadrant of panel ( a ) .",
    "a gray - scale enhanced view of the inner region near the static limit clearly shows that a strong inflow has developed that contacts the static limit in the upper left quadrant of panel ( b ) ; there is also a hint of frame dragging in the reversal of the sense of the flow near the static limit ( in this figure , as in all subsequent ones , the black hole rotates in the counter - clockwise sense , and the retrograde torus here rotates in the opposite sense ) .",
    "there is also a evidence of a weaker inbound spiral of matter in the right half of panel ( b ) .",
    "the growth of the ppi modes has two distinct stages , as seen in figure [ b3r](c ) .",
    "the @xmath99 mode grows quickly at the beginning , then levels off at @xmath123 and remains roughly constant until @xmath124 before increasing again , paralleling the growth of the @xmath48 mode .",
    "the @xmath48 mode growth does not become apparent until approximately @xmath125 , at which point it exhibits strong linear growth to saturation at @xmath126 .",
    "up to @xmath127 , the @xmath99 mode is dominant , but lags the @xmath48 mode in the later stages of the simulation .",
    "the development of the accretion flow is clarified in figure [ b3r](d ) , which shows the mass influx in the equatorial plane inside the inner edge of the torus .",
    "there is no significant accretion until @xmath128 .",
    "the accretion rate reaches a maximum shortly after mode saturation .",
    "this feature , as will be seen in subsequent runs , is associated with all solutions that yield planets .",
    "the effect of frame dragging is illustrated in figure [ b3r_flow ] , which is an equatorial slice at @xmath129 , one orbit after saturation .",
    "the left panel of the figure is a density plot with 15 contours , chosen to highlight the stream of high - density material flowing from the inner edge of the grid into the hole",
    ". the right panel shows momentum direction vectors inside the flow stream outlined by the overlaid contour .",
    "the expected reversal in azimuthal flow direction due to frame dragging begins at @xmath130 .",
    "the direction becomes progressively more prograde as the flow approaches the the inner edge of the grid , which lies at @xmath131 ( just outside the static limit ) .",
    "this reversal , from retrograde to prograde , produces the dog - leg pattern seen in the density plot as the flow approaches the static limit .",
    "a similar pattern is visible for model e3r ( see below ) .",
    "model a3p is an intermediate torus rotating in the prograde sense around a kerr black hole with @xmath132 .",
    "the torus has an initial maximum density of @xmath133 at @xmath134 .",
    "figure [ a3p](a ) shows that at mode saturation a planet has formed , with a density maximum at @xmath121 and a fractional density enhancement of @xmath135 .",
    "the planet has a narrow crescent shape with an outward spiral wave visible in the upper left quadrant of panel ( a ) .",
    "a gray - scale highly enhanced ( @xmath136 ) view of the inner region near the static limit clearly shows that a weak inspiral of material is underway at saturation ; however , this is by far the weakest of the inflows in the set of planet - forming simulations .",
    "the growth of the ppi modes is strong from the outset , as seen in figure [ a3p](c ) .",
    "the @xmath48 and @xmath99 modes track one another , with the @xmath48 mode growing at a slightly greater rate .",
    "the @xmath48 mode is also less erratic than the @xmath99 mode . both modes exhibit strong linear growth up to saturation at @xmath137 .",
    "a small amount of inflow is present at saturation , as can be seen in figure [ a3p](d ) , which shows the mass influx in the equatorial plane inside the inner edge of the torus .",
    "the inflow of matter is quiescent until @xmath128 , and reaches a maximum at mode saturation .",
    "the apparent reversal of the flow after @xmath137 , combined with the lack of evidence for substantial inflow in panel ( b ) , suggests that the planet is settling down to a new equilibrium state , and that this apparent outward flow of matter is simply indicative of the reorganization of matter within the disk .",
    "model b3p is a wide torus rotating in the prograde sense around a kerr black hole with @xmath132 .",
    "the torus has an initial maximum density of @xmath138 at @xmath134 .",
    "although the disk extends to @xmath139 , most of the matter is concentrated inside @xmath140 .",
    "figure [ b3p](a ) shows that at mode saturation a planet has formed , with a density maximum at @xmath121 and a fractional density enhancement of @xmath141 .",
    "the planet has a tightly - wrapped crescent shape with a noticeable outward spiral wave in the upper right quadrant of panel ( a ) .",
    "a gray - scale enhanced view of the inner region near the static limit clearly shows that an inflow has developed that contacts the static limit in the lower right quadrant of panel ( b ) .",
    "there is also a hint of frame dragging of the flow near the static limit where dense material appears to smear out into a ring",
    ". a weaker inbound spiral of matter in the upper half of panel ( b ) is also feeding the inner ring of matter .",
    "the growth of the ppi modes is strong from the outset , as seen in figure [ b3p](c ) . the @xmath48 and @xmath99 modes track one another , with the @xmath48 mode growing a a slightly greater rate .",
    "the @xmath48 mode is also less erratic than the @xmath99 mode .",
    "both modes exhibit strong linear growth up to saturation at @xmath142 ; the saturation peak is very broad , making a precise determination of @xmath143 difficult . as with the previous two models ,",
    "inflow is triggered at saturation , as can be seen in figure [ b3p](d ) , which shows the mass influx in the equatorial plane inside the inner edge of the torus .",
    "the flow of matter is quiescent until @xmath144 , and reaches a maximum at @xmath145 , again corresponding with mode saturation .",
    "model e3p is a marginal torus rotating in the prograde sense around a kerr black hole with @xmath146 .",
    "the torus has an initial maximum density of @xmath147 at @xmath148 .",
    "figure [ e3p](a ) shows that at mode saturation an elongated planet has formed , with a density maximum at @xmath149 and a fractional density decrease of @xmath150 .",
    "a gray - scale view ( @xmath151 enhancement ) of the inner region near the static limit clearly shows that an inflow has developed that contacts the static limit in the upper right quadrant of panel ( b ) .",
    "figure [ e3p](c ) shows that the @xmath48 mode undergoes steady growth from the outset , with some variability in the first @xmath152 orbits .",
    "the @xmath99 mode tracks the @xmath48 mode until @xmath153 , where it flattens out until @xmath154 , then grows again until the @xmath48 mode saturates at @xmath155 .",
    "perhaps the most striking feature of this model can be seen in the mass influx curve , figure [ e3p](d ) , again plotted for a point in the equatorial plane inside the inner edge of the disk .",
    "the transition between quiescence and accretion is less sharply defined than in other models , and a strong inflow begins after @xmath156 , roughly corresponding to the point where the @xmath99 mode begins to grow again . compared to the other models , the amount of accretion in this model is remarkable ; panels ( a ) and ( b ) clearly show very prominent in - bound spirals of matter .",
    "model e3r is a marginal torus rotating in the retrograde sense around a kerr black hole with @xmath157 .",
    "the torus has an initial maximum density of @xmath158 at @xmath159 .",
    "figure [ e3r](a ) shows that at mode saturation the disk remains largely unperturbed , with an insignificant fractional density decrease of @xmath150 .",
    "figure [ e3r](b ) shows a gray - scale enhanced view of the inner region near the static limit clearly shows that an inflow has developed that contacts the static limit in the upper right quadrant of panel ( b ) ; it must be noted that this inflow is extremely weak ( @xmath160 enhancement ) yet it bears some similarity to the other retrograde model , b3r , in that the stream of matter exhibits a change in flow direction near the static limit .",
    "the growth of the ppi modes is weak , with the @xmath48 mode levelling off quickly after a brief initial growth , and the @xmath99 mode showing little activity , as seen in figure [ e3r](c ) .",
    "the @xmath48 mode reaches a very broad , weak maximum at @xmath161 , making a precise determination of @xmath143 difficult . unlike the previous models ,",
    "a noticeable amount of inflow is present from the outset as can be seen in figure [ e3r](d ) , which shows the mass influx in the equatorial plane inside the inner edge of the torus .",
    "since this model is marginal , the early onset of an inflow is to be expected . in comparing panels ( c ) and",
    "( d ) , we see that the inflow is established before any significant mode growth has occured ; inflow levels off to a more or less constant value in the first 5 orbits ; the mode growth also levels off in this period .",
    "this would suggest that early accretion is an effective mechanism for inhibiting mode growth .",
    "this observation is strengthened by the last model to be considered , x3p .",
    "model x3p is a marginal torus rotating in the prograde sense around a kerr black hole with @xmath146 .",
    "the torus has an initial maximum density of @xmath162 at @xmath163 .",
    "figure [ x3p](a ) shows that at mode saturation the disk remains largely unperturbed , with an insignificant fractional density decrease of @xmath150 .",
    "figure [ x3p](b ) shows a gray - scale enhanced view of the inner region near the static limit clearly shows that a highly symmetric , weak inflow has developed .",
    "the growth of the ppi modes is weak , with both modes tracking one another , as seen in figure [ x3p](c ) .",
    "although table 3 would suggest that these modes have a vigorous growth rate , their maximum amplitude is comparable to that of model e3r , and the outcome is very similar to that model , which is interesting since model x3p is much more closely related , in terms of its structural parameters , to model e3p . the @xmath48 mode reaches a very broad , weak maximum at @xmath164 . as with model e3r , a noticeable amount of inflow is present from the outset as can be seen in figure [ x3p](d ) , which shows the mass influx in the equatorial plane inside the inner edge of the torus .",
    "as with e3r , this model is marginal , and the early onset of an inflow is to be expected . in comparing panels ( c ) and",
    "( d ) , we see that the inflow is established before any significant mode growth has occured ; inflow levels off to a more or less constant value in the first 4 orbits ; the mode growth also levels off in this period . as with model e3r",
    ", early accretion appears to be an effective mechanism for inhibiting mode growth .",
    "the numerical simulations presented in this paper were undertaken to test the hydrodynamic portions of a three - dimensional general relativistic magnetohydrodynamic solver that is being developed by the authors .",
    "we studied the growth of the papaloizou - pringle instability in tori orbiting kerr black holes . as was noted in h91 ,",
    "the parameter space spanned by tori in the schwarzschild spacetime is a rich one , and the detailed behaviour of the unstable modes is very much model - dependent .",
    "this is certainly still true now that we have added black role angular momentum to the mix .",
    "however , several general features do emerge from the study of tori in the kerr spacetime .",
    "previous analytic and numerical work has established that the rate of growth of unstable modes decreases as the width of the torus increases .",
    "our results for models a3p , b3p , and b3r show that this remains the case for tori orbiting kerr black holes .    as in h91",
    ", we see a decrease in the density enhancement with torus width in the bound tori .",
    "however , only models a3p and b3p are bound tori , with @xmath165 , ( model b3r is sub - marginal , and the other three models are marginal ) .",
    "furthermore , as was noted in h91 , the detailed behaviour of mode growth depends sensitively on the choice of initial model , and mode growth dictates the redistribution of matter and hence the magnitude of the density enhancements .",
    "two - dimensional studies have shown that accretion suppresses mode growth due to the loss of the inner reflecting boundary , which is a prerequisite for mode amplification .",
    "this conclusion was supported by numerical and analytic work in previous papers , as discussed in section 3.1 .",
    "however , the interplay between accretion and mode growth in three - dimensional simulations is less clear .",
    "the argument has been made , in h91 , that since inflow is primarily concentrated on the equatorial plane , the loss of a reflecting boundary is localized to this region , and mode growth can still occur given the right circumstances in off - equator regions of the disk . models b3r , a3p , and b3p",
    "show that mode growth in the absence of early inflow produces planets , while still generating appreciable transient inflows as a consequence of the redistribution of matter accompanying planet formation . in the converse case , we have seen that early inflow ( marginal models e3r and x3p ) effectively inhibits mode growth ; the establishement of a steady inflow coincides in these two models with the capping of mode growth at a very low level , insufficient to disturb the disk .",
    "model e3p would seem to straddle these two extremes in that it exhibits both early inflow and the development of unstable modes .",
    "model e3p , like models e3r and x3p , is a marginal torus . e3p and x3p are very similar in their initial conditions ( see table [ param ] ) , although model e3p has an initial inner edge that is slightly farther out that model x3p . in spite of these structural similarities , model",
    "e3p develops a significant ppi mode while e3r and x3p do not . as marginal tori ,",
    "all of these three models show an early inflow of matter . however , the mass influx rate is less for model e3p ( about @xmath166 in units normalized to the peak density ) than it is for the other marginal models ( between @xmath167 and @xmath168 ) .",
    "model e3p appears to be a `` transition '' model , where the presence of ( weak ) early inflow is insufficient to prevent mode growth .",
    "mode growth eventually begins , and progresses much more slowly than in the other models that yield planets ; the growth rate of the @xmath48 mode for model e3p is one third the rate of the next slowest mode growth , for model b3p .",
    "blaes ( 1987 ) found that although the ppi modes can be stabilized by accretion , there is a finite transition that permits both accretion and mode growth .",
    "e3p appears to be such a case .",
    "these results for 3d tori in the kerr metric reinforce the idea that accretion through the inner boundary at the equatorial plane suppresses the growth of the ppi , and that this suppression is as effective in three dimensions as it is in two .",
    "perhaps most interestingly , we have seen evidence of frame - dragging in those models that develop an accretion flow .",
    "models b3r and e3r show evidence of a retrograde inflow changing its winding sense as it enters the innermost regions near the static limit , and model b3p shows a prograde accretion flow getting smeared into a ring in the vicinity of the static limit . as has been suspected from the earliest days of numerical simulations of gr hydrodynamics , it is in the deepest regions of the black hole potential well that we find the most interesting , and perhaps most astrophysically distinct consequences of general relativity .",
    "balbus , s.  a. , & hawley , j.  f. 1991 , apj , 376 , 214 blaes , o. 1987 , mnras , 227 , 975 blaes , o. , & hawley , j.  f. 1988 , apj , 326 , 277 dwarkadas , v. , & balbus , s.  a. 1996 , apj , 467 , 87 elvis , m. , risaliti , g. , & zamorani , g. 2002 , apj , 565 , l75 frolov , v.  p. , & novikov , i.  d. 1998 , black hole physics ( dordrecht : kluwer academic ) gat , o. & livio , m. 1992 , apj , 396 , 542 hawley , j.  f. 1991 , apj , 381 , 496 ( h91 ) hawley , j.  f. 1987 , mnras , 225 , 677 hawley , j.  f. 1986 , in radiation hydrodynamics in stars and compact objects , ed .",
    "d. mihalas and k .- h .",
    "winkler ( new york : springer - verlag ) , 369 hawley , j.  f. , & balbus , s.  a. 2002 , apj , submitted hawley , j.  f. , & smarr , l.  l. 1986 , in magnetospheric phenomena in astrophysics , ed .",
    "r. epstein and w. feldman ( new york : aip ) , 263 hawley , j.  f. , smarr , l.  l. , & wilson , j.  r. , 1984a , apj , 277 , 296 ( hswa ) hawley , j.  f. , smarr , l.  l. , & wilson , j.  r. , 1984b , apjs , 55 , 211 ( hswb ) igumenshchev , i. v. & beloborodov , a. m. 1997 , mnras , 284 , 767 koide , s. , shibata , k. , & kudoh , t. 1999 , apj , 522 , 727 komissarov , s. s. 1999 , mnras , 303 , 343 lynden - bell , d. 1969 , nature , 223 , 690 [ misner , thorne , & wheeler [ 1973)]mtw misner , c.  w. , thorne , k.  s. , & wheeler , j.   a , 1973 , gravitation ( san francisco : w.h .",
    "freeman ) narayan , r. , goldreich , p. , & goodman , j. 1987 , mnras , 228 , 1 papaloizou , j.  c.  b. , & pringle , j.  e. 1984 , mnras , 208 , 721 tanaka , y. , et al .",
    "1995 , nature , 375 , 659 tremaine , s. 1997 , in unsolved problems in astrophysics , eds .",
    "j.n . bahcall and j.p .",
    "ostriker , ( princeton : princeton university ) , 137 van paradijs , j. , & mcclintock , j.  e. 1995 , in x - ray binaries , eds .",
    "lewin , j. van paradijs , and e.p.j .",
    "van den heuvel ( cambridge : cambridge university ) , 58 wilson , j. r. 1972 , apj , 173 , 431 wilson , j. r. 1975 , ann .  n.y .",
    ", 262 , 123 wilson , j. r. 1978 , proceedings of international school of physics fermi course lxv , ed .",
    "r. giacooni and r. ruffini ( amsterdam : north holland ) , 644 yokosawa , m. 1995 , pasj , 47 , 605"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents results of three - dimensional simulations of global hydrodynamic instabilities in black hole tori , extending earlier work by hawley to kerr spacetimes . </S>",
    "<S> this study probes a three - dimensional parameter space of torus angular momentum , torus size , and black hole angular momentum . </S>",
    "<S> we have observed the growth of the papaloizou - pringle instability for a range of torus configurations and the resultant formation of m=1 planets . </S>",
    "<S> we have also observed the quenching of this instability in the presence of early accretion flows ; however , in one simulation both early accretion and planet formation occurred . </S>",
    "<S> though most of the conclusions reached in hawley s earlier work on schwarzschild black holes carry over to kerr spacetime , the presence of frame dragging in the kerr geometry adds an element of complexity to the simulations ; we have seen especially clear examples of this phenomenon in the accretion flows that arise from retrograde tori . </S>"
  ]
}