{
  "article_text": [
    "in the local universe we see a variety of galaxy types that can be distinguished both by their morphology and their internal kinematics .",
    "the two main families are the spiral galaxies in which stars and gas rotate around the center in a disk and the elliptical galaxies that are gravitationally stabilized by the random motion of the stars within a triaxial body .",
    "some kind of intermediate class are the lenticular or s0 galaxies with central bulges surrounded by disks .",
    "in addition , we observe irregular galaxies with many different structures .",
    "one of the main tasks of extragalactic research is to understand why the galaxies appear in such different types .",
    "is the structure of a galaxy already fixed at the time of its formation ? or does it change during the time of its evolution and is it subject to external influence ?",
    "the vastly accepted paradigm of galaxy formation is nowadays the theory of the hierarchical growth of all structure in the universe .",
    "large galaxies are built up via the merging of smaller systems . in such events , the disk structure of the progenitors",
    "is transformed into a spheroidal shape .",
    "an important ingredient of the theory is the dominance of cold dark matter and the main prediction is that the total mass of galaxies is growing during the evolution .",
    "a first step to quantify galaxy evolution is to study the luminosity of galaxies up to high redshifts with deep photometric observations .",
    "well - known deep imaging are the hubble deep fields ( williams et al .",
    "1996 ; casertano et al . 2000 ) but their major drawback is their very small field size .",
    "therefore , the fors consortium made the effort to observe a comparable deep but larger field with the fors instrument at the vlt . consuming some 72 hours pure integration time",
    ", deep images were taken in the @xmath2 filters , supplemented by @xmath3 and @xmath4 near - infrared exposures with the ntt ( heidt et al .",
    "2003 ) . with the aid of photometric redshifts , number counts and luminosity functions can be constructed up to redshifts @xmath5 in this fors deep field ( fdf ; gabasch et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "but a more robust test of the cold dark matter theory would be the measurement of the mass and size of distant galaxies , because the brightness of galaxies is subject to star formation processes .",
    "a rather quiescent luminosity evolution of the stellar population of a galaxy can get quickly wiped out by any contemporary star burst even if it involves only a small fraction in mass . from pure photometry",
    "it is very difficult to judge whether any galaxy within a sample is undergoing such an event .    with 10m - class telescopes it is nowadays possible to take spectra with sufficient spectral and spatial resolution of faint galaxies down to @xmath6 mag reaching the necessary @xmath7 within reasonable exposure times .",
    "analyzing spectral lines , the characteristic velocity of the stars and gas within a galaxy can be determined which is a measure for its total mass . for elliptical galaxies ,",
    "the width of absorption lines reflects the internal velocity dispersion , while for spiral galaxies , the doppler shifts of emission lines trace the rotational speed .",
    "the characteristic size of distant galaxies can be determined in spatially highly resolved images as they can be obtained either with the hst or groundbased telescopes equipped with adaptive optics .",
    "important tools for the quantitative investigation of galaxy evolution are scaling relations because entire samples of galaxies can be compared with each other rather than just individual galaxies .",
    "such scaling relations are , for example , the fundamental plane of ellipticals ( e.g. bender , burstein , & faber 1992 ) or the tully  fisher relation ( tfr ) of spirals ( e.g. pierce & tully 1992 [ pt92 ] ) .",
    "as one example , the tfr of galaxies up to @xmath8 corresponding to a lookback time of @xmath9gyr or half the age of the universe , @xmath10 , and @xmath11kms@xmath12mpc@xmath12 . ] is shown in figure1 . only emission ",
    "line galaxies that exhibit a rotation curve ( rc ) which turns into a flat regime with constant velocity are suitable for display in such a tf diagram .",
    "the maximum rotational speed ( @xmath13 ) in such a case is then a measure for the total mass of the galaxy including its dark matter .",
    "distant galaxies impose difficulties on the analysis of rcs not only due to their faintness but because their small sizes limit strongly the spatial extent of any emission line . from a sample of 113 spirals in the fdf , we were able to determine @xmath13 for 77 galaxies with @xmath14 .    comparing the restframe @xmath15 magnitudes for fixed @xmath13 between the distant fdf sample and a local sample by pt92 , we find a substantial increase in the luminosity for small galaxies but very similar brightnesses for large ones ( ziegler et al .",
    "2002 ; bhm et al .",
    "such a mass - dependent evolution is not easily explained by cdm theory since it involves the modeling of stellar populations .",
    "first simulations indicate that the efficiency , strength and duration of star formation in a galaxy may depend on its total mass . for a better understanding ,",
    "spectroscopic observations of many more distant galaxies are needed , too , as it will be possible with salt .",
    "this becomes even more obvious when we try to subdivide the emission ",
    "line galaxies into different types as in figure1a . looking into such subsamples will allow to investigate the impact of varying global parameters like star formation rates or mass - to - light ratios .",
    "looking at the distribution of different galaxy types , it becomes obvious that the average mean distance between galaxies must play a role in shaping a galaxy s structure .",
    "this morphology  density relation manifests itself most clearly in the prevalence of early  type galaxies in the center of rich clusters of galaxies ( dressler 1980 ) . at the same time , interactions between cluster galaxies and the hot x - ray emitting intracluster gas or the cluster potential indicate phenomena specific to clusters ( e.g. van gorkom 2003 ) . we also observe evolution in the galaxy population of clusters , i.e. the mixture of the various types .",
    "distant clusters at @xmath16 have , for example , a greatly reduced fraction of s0 galaxies that dominate the bright population locally while the number of ellipticals stays nearly constant ( dressler et al .",
    "these findings have provoked the question whether field spirals falling into a cluster could get transformed into s0 galaxies during the time due to clusterspecific processes .",
    "another environmental dependence is given for the global star formation as it is observed to be largely suppressed in cluster members ( e.g. gmez et al .",
    "investigating galaxies in densities intermediate between the field and cluster environments reveals that at least two different interaction processes on different timescales must be responsible for transforming galaxy structure and suppressing star formation , respectively ( e.g. balogh et al . 2002 ) .",
    "interactions can also affect a galaxy s internal kinematics creating asymmetric rcs , for example , or totally corrupted velocity fields ( e.g. rubin , waterman , & kenney 1999 ) . in a universe with hierarchically growing structure , it is predicted that the galaxy merger rate and frequency of infalling galaxies increases with redshift .",
    "observations should therefore investigate the internal kinematics of galaxies in clusters up to @xmath8 as it is now possible with the big telescopes like salt .",
    "indeed , spirals in clusters with @xmath17 , which we studied with fors , display peculiar rcs ( figure2 ; ziegler et al .",
    "2003 ) . on the other hand ,",
    "several cluster members have undistorted rcs with an outer flat part .",
    "these galaxies can be compared to field galaxies in a tf diagram allowing to investigate whether they might be under- or over - luminous for their measured @xmath13 .",
    "truncation of star formation in a cluster member leads to a dimming , whereas interaction - induced star bursts results in a brightening of the galaxy .",
    "our cluster targets are distributed very similar to the distant fdf spirals , so that their stellar populations are momentarily not suspect to any changes ( figure1b ) .",
    "but it may well be that those galaxies with distorted rcs in our sample have star formation rates which got affected by the same interaction process that produced the kinematic peculiarity .",
    "much larger samples of distant cluster galaxies are needed to robustly investigate these issues .",
    "another important tool next to scaling relations for the quantitative measurement of galaxy evolution are diagnostic diagrams where absorption line strengths are plotted versus each other and compared to a model grid .",
    "a widely used application is the lick / ids system , in which balmer lines ( in particular h@xmath18 ) are taken as age sensitive indicators whereas the metallicity ( [ z / h ] ) is measured by combining mg and fe lines ( e.g. faber et al .",
    "more sophisticated stellar population models can nowadays also distinguish between different enrichment histories for various elements and are no longer fixed to the solar abundance ( e.g. thomas , maraston , & bender 2003 [ tmb03 ] ) .",
    "this opens the possibility for another important test of cdm theory .",
    "it is predicted that large elliptical galaxies in high - density peaks corresponding to rich clusters are formed in a very short time ( @xmath19gyr ) with the bulk of their stars created in a vigorous star burst , whereas ellipticals in the field get assembled all the time by major mergers of spirals that already had an extended star formation history ( e.g. kauffmann 1996 ) .",
    "the stellar populations of ellipticals in different environments should therefore have different enrichment histories for the mg or @xmath20 elements and the fe - peak elements which can only be measured by spectroscopy .",
    "this comes about , because these element families are to first order mainly produced by supernovae of type ii and type ia , respectively , which have very different timescales .",
    "sniis are exploded massive stars which have a lifetime of only a few myrs .",
    "snia are the endproducts of a binary stellar system with an evolutionary time of @xmath21gyr .",
    "if a cluster elliptical ended its star burst within a few myrs , then it should be deficient in fe leading to mg / fe ratios much larger than the solar mix or than in field ellipticals . since an accurate measurement of the absorption line strengths needs a minimum s / n of @xmath22 , spectroscopy of distant faint galaxies is only feasible with the 10m - class telescopes like salt .",
    "as an example , two diagnostic diagrams are shown in figure3 for early  type galaxies in the coma cluster ( kuntschner et al .",
    "2001 ) together with field ellipticals from the fdf ( ziegler et al . 2004 ) and cluster ellipticals ( ziegler & bender 1997 ) both samples having @xmath23 . since absorption lines of distant galaxies can be corrupted if they are redshifted to a region with strong terrestrial emission or absorption , the number of galaxies is different for the two panels , and we do not use the classical combination of fe lines but only the fe5270 index for the assessment of fe abundance .",
    "the bulk of the data in panela ) can be modeled with old ages with the distant galaxies being younger by @xmath24gyr on average than coma compatible with the lookback time .",
    "three of the fdf field objects have luminosity - weighted ages of @xmath25gyr and solar metallicity which may indicate that these galaxies are the endproducts of a recent merger between spirals .",
    "none of the distant field ellipticals reach the peak values in metallicity of the cluster members .",
    "the majority of the @xmath26 galaxies exhibit a super - solar mg overabundance relative to fe like the local reference ( panel b ) .",
    "most of the work presented here stems from my volkswagen foundation junior research group `` kinematic evolution of galaxies '' that includes dr .",
    "i. berentzen , dr .",
    "a. bhm , a. fritz , b. gerken , and dr .",
    "i fully acknowledge their permission to show the results of their research here .",
    "i also acknowledge the very fruitful collaborations within the fors consortium and with the university of durham . this work has been supported by the volkswagen foundation ( i/76520 ) .",
    "balogh , m. , bower , r.  g. , smail , i. , ziegler , b.  l. , davies , r.  l. , gaztelu , a. , & fritz , a. 2002 , , 337 , 256 bender , r. , burstein , d. , & faber , s.  m. 1992 , , 399 , 462 bhm et al .",
    "2004 , , sub .",
    "( astro  ph/0309263 ) et  al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 2747 dressler , a. 1980 , , 236 , 351 dressler et  al .",
    "1997 , , 490 , 577 faber , s.  m. , friel , e.  d. , burstein , d. , & gaskell , c.  m. 1985 , , 57 , 711 gabasch et  al .",
    "2004 , , sub .",
    "gmez et al .",
    "2003 , , 584 , 210 van gorkom , j.  h. 2003 , in carnegie observatories astrophysics series vol .",
    "mulchaey , j.  s. , dressler , a. & oemler , a. et  al .",
    "2003 , , 398 , 49 kauffmann , g. 1996 , , 281 , 487 , h. , lucey , j.  r. , smith , r.  j. , hudson , m.  j. , & davies , r.  l. 2001 , , 323 , 615 [ k01 ] , m.  j. & tully , r.  b. 1992 , , 387 , 47 [ pt92 ] , v.  c. , waterman , a.  h. , & kenney , j.  d.  p. 1999",
    ", , 118 , 236 , d. , maraston , c. , & bender , r. 2003 , , 339 , 897 [ tmb03 ] et  al .",
    "1996 , , 112 , 1335 ziegler , b. l. & bender , r. 1997 , , 291 , 527 ziegler et al .",
    "2002 , , 564 , l69 ziegler et al .",
    "2003 , , 598 , l87 ziegler et al .",
    "2004 , , sub ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an introduction is given to projects investigating galaxy evolution quantitatively by spectroscopic observations of very distant galaxies that have weak apparent brightnesses and small sizes as it is feasible with 10m - class telescopes like salt . </S>",
    "<S> such methods encompass scaling relations like the tully  fisher and fundamental plane relations that can be utilized to determine the luminosity evolution and mass assembly of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar populations can be analyzed with respect to age , metallicity , and chemical enrichment by measureing absorption line strengths . </S>",
    "<S> possible effects on galaxy evolution of the environment in rich clusters of galaxies compared to the field are also addressed . for each method </S>",
    "<S> , recent applications are presented like the evolution of the tfr determined with 77 field spirals up to @xmath0 , a study of the internal kinematics of distant cluster spirals and a comparison of the stellar populations of ellipticals in the field and in rich clusters at @xmath1 .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}