{
  "article_text": [
    "a neutron star is born when the core of a massive star collapses to nuclear densities during the last stages of the star s life .",
    "it is during , or just after , the launch of a supernova explosion associated with neutron star birth that it is believed that the nascent neutron stars receive the fast spins and large magnetic fields that allow them to be observed as pulsars .",
    "the inferred velocities from individual pulsars ( e.g. guitar nebula pulsar - cordes , romani , & lundgren 1993 ) and pulsar velocity distributions ( lyne & lorimer 1994 ; lorimer , bailes , & harrison 1997 ; fryer , burrows , & benz 1998 ; cordes & chernoff 1998 ; brisken et al .",
    "2003 ) imply that neutron stars also receive a kick , most likely at birth .",
    "in addition , specific neutron star and black hole binaries are best explained by assuming neutron stars receive large kicks at birth ( e.g. fryer & kalogera 1997 ; kramer 1998 ; tauris et al . 1999 ; wex , kalogera , & kramer 2000 ; mirabel et al .",
    "any supernova mechanism must not only produce explosions , but also must expain features of nascent neutron stars , such as spin , magnetic fields and high velocities .    of all of these ,",
    "theorists have been most hard pressed to explain the neutron star velocities .",
    "most mechanisms by which these kicks might be produced require extreme magnetic fields ( see lai , chernoff , & cordes 2001 for a review ) .",
    "one of the leading classes of models for kick production which avoids these strong magnetic fields invokes global hydrodynamic perturbations in the stellar core prior to collapse .",
    "these perturbations are driven during the last few weeks of a star s life . at the end of its life ,",
    "a star is composed of an iron core covered by a succession of composition layers ( from silicon down to hydrogen ) produced by a series of nuclear burning stages where the ashes of each burning stage is the fuel for the next .",
    "the final stages of a star s life are marked by explosive burning in the oxygen and silicon layers above the iron core ( bazan & arnett 1998 ) .",
    "the large scale convection driven by the burning creates density variations in these oxygen and silicon shells .",
    "such asphericities , especially if dominated by low order ( l=1,2 ) modes , cause asymmetries during the collapse , bounce and explosion of the stellar interior ( burrows & hayes 1996 ) .",
    "it is possible that the violent convection in shell burning can also excite unstable modes in the star s iron core , producing asymmetries in the iron core itself , increasing the level of asymmetry in the explosion ( lai & goldreich 2000 ) .",
    "these asymmetries are believed to grow during collapse and bounce and ultimately , to produce asymmetric explosions and large neutron star velocities .    in this paper , the first 3-dimensional collapse simulations.of this asymmetric - collapse kick mechanisms are presented .",
    "we compare and contrast these simulations to the seminal 2-dimensional work by burrows & hayes ( 1996 ) which predicted strong neutron star kicks from this mechanism .",
    "our collapse calculations use the 3d snsph code ( fryer & warren 2002 ; warren , rockefeller , & fryer 2003 ) .",
    "this code combines a parallel lagrangean hydrodynamics scheme ( smooth particle hydrodynamics - sph ) with a flux - limited diffusion neutrino transport scheme . gravity is calculated using a tree - based algorithm described in warren & salmon ( 1995 ) .",
    "the neutrino transport and equation of state physics uses the same algorithms described in herant et al .",
    "( 1994 ) and fryer ( 1999 ) .",
    "the lagrangean nature of sph is critical for this problem , as the proto - neutron star is not fixed to any central point and the resolution must follow this moving proto - neutron star .",
    "the entire 4@xmath1 of the star is modeled in 3-dimensions .    beyond a neutrino optical depth , @xmath2 , of 0.03",
    ", the code assumes the neutrinos escape the star without further affecting the composition or hydrodynamics of the star .",
    "but we must still account for the momentum lost by neutrinos at this boundary .",
    "we assume particles emit neutrinos isotropically over a hemisphere with a net momentum emitted set to @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the energy of the neutrinos , @xmath5 is the speed of light , and @xmath6 is the radial direction of the particle . the momentum lost is taken from the emitting particle . in reality , neutrinos will have some beaming and the true answer for the momentum carried away by neutrinos lies between @xmath7 .    for initial conditions , we use as a base model the 15m@xmath8 progenitor `` s15s7b2 '' ( woosley & weaver ) . to this",
    ", we have added the following two perturbations . to mimic the low mode convection in the oxygen and silicon layers only",
    ", we have run a simulation where the density in the oxygen and silicon layers only is lowered by 40% in a 30@xmath9 cone around the z - axis : shell only simulation .",
    "neutron star oscillations are mimicked by lowering the density throughout the collapsing star ( including the iron core ) by 25% in a 30@xmath9 cone around the z - axis : core oscillation simulation .",
    "these perturbations are extreme cases .",
    "bazan & arnett ( 1998 ) predict density variations at the 10 - 15% level with higher modes .",
    "burrows & hayes used a 15% asymmetry in a 20@xmath9 wedge . in running test simulations with perturbations at this 15% level with a 20@xmath9 wedge",
    ", the neutron star kicks did not exceed 30kms@xmath0 .",
    "the collapse simulations follow the collapse of these modified cores through bounce until an explosion shock is launched ( figs .",
    "after 80ms , the newly - born neutron star ( central black dot defined by material with density above @xmath10 ) has moved @xmath1116 km , corresponding to an average velocity of 200kms@xmath0 . but",
    "this estimate can be misleading because the neutron star ( defined by this density requirement ) is growing during this time , preferentially accreting along the negative z axis .",
    "so part of this motion is an artifact of this one - sided growth .",
    "also , this assumes a steady motion of the neutron star and , as we shall see below , this motion is far from steady . at this time",
    ", the convective region is just beginning to overcome the ram pressure of the infalling star and is now expanding .",
    "this kick magnitude is much lower than that predicted by burrows & hayes ( 1996 ) . before we delve into the details and differences of this simulation with respect to burrows & hayes ( 1996 ) , let s review their calculations .",
    "the 2-dimensional simulations by burrows & hayes ( 1996 ) assumed a symmetry along the z - axis where the density perturbation was placed .",
    "the inner 15 km of the star was modeled in 1-dimension and was held fixed to a central position .",
    "this means that the proto - neutron star does not move and the kick can only be determined by assuming momentum conservation . in such conditions ,",
    "mild asymmetries of 15% in a 20@xmath12 cone produced highly asymmetric supernovae with kicks in excess of 450kms@xmath0 .",
    "in the simulations presented here , the initial bounce began even more asymmetric than those of burrows & hayes ( 1996 ) due to the more extreme initial conditions .",
    "after bounce , the neutron star begins to move in the negative - z direction .",
    "the convection that drives the explosion rises from the surface of the neutron star .",
    "as the neutron star moves , the convection moves with it , weakening the explosion in the postive - z direction .",
    "the net result is that the explosion is only mildly asymmetric ( figs .",
    "1,2 ) .    not only is the explosion less asymmetric and kick magnitude weaker than that of burrows & hayes ( 1996 ) , but even the qualitative nature of the kick is very different . instead of accelerating continuously in the negative z - direction , the velocity of the newly born neutron star oscillates substantially .",
    "figure 3 shows the x , y , and z velocities of the proto - neutron star ( again defined as that material with densities in excess of @xmath10 ) for both simulations as a function of time since collapse .",
    "note that in the core oscillation model , decreasing the mass in the core caused the collapse to take 20% longer .",
    "however , though its density profile extends throughout the entire core , the velocities of this simulation with a 25% density decrease are less than the shell - only simulation with its 40% density perturbation .",
    "it appears that it is the density perturbation in the oxygen / silicon shells that matters most for kicks .",
    "but in both , the same oscillatory behavior occurs .",
    "let s gain a better understanding of this oscillating motion . during collapse , the condensing core moves along the path of least resistance in the positive z - direction where we decreased the density .",
    "the bounce shock is strongest in this direction , and momentum conservation argues that the neutron star should be driven in the negative z - direction , just as predicted by the 2-dimensional momentum conservation arguments ( burrows & hayes 1996 ) .    because the ejecta is roughly symmetric , the momentum carried away by neutrinos dominates the momentum loss from the core . as the neutron star moves through the convective region ( fig .",
    "2 ) , the down - flows , and hence neutrino emission , are strongest along the leading edge of the neutron star . these neutrinos exert a force on the neutron star as they carry momentum out of the star , causing the neutron star to switch directions once again .",
    "the neutrino forces gradually damp the neutron star s motion .",
    "as the explosion evolves , the rapid shaking of the neutron star ends , leaving behind a slowly moving ( @xmath13kms@xmath0 ) neutron star .",
    "the 3-dimensional simulations presented here _ did _ find that density perturbations can drive a neutron star to velocities in excess of 700kms@xmath0 .",
    "however , neutrino emission damps out these velocities by the time the star explodes .",
    "the simulations did not produce strong ( @xmath14kms@xmath0 ) neutron star kicks even with the very extereme density perturbations in the pre - collapse star assumed here .",
    "since our 15m@xmath8 is fairly representative of stellar progenitors above 12 - 13m@xmath8 , our simulations suggest something is missing in the standard , neutrino - driven mechanism for both type ib / c and type ii supernovae alike .",
    "the progenitors of type ib / c and type ii supernova differ mostly by the amount of hydrogen , or lack thereof in the envelope .",
    "the cores of type ib / c and ii supernovae should be very similar , so our results will stand for both types of supernovae .    hence , we can place severe constraints on the standard , neutrino - driven supernova engine : either 1 ) the explosion must occur very quickly before neutrino emission from accretion flows can damp the neutron star motion , 2 ) the explosion must occur late , allowing the convective flows to merge into single modes ( herant 1995 ; scheck et al .",
    "2003 ) , 3 ) magnetic fields are indeed high ( @xmath15 g ) at least in local patches early on in the proto - neutron star ( arras & lai 1999 ; socrates et al .",
    "determining which of these mechanisms , if any , will work can teach us much about the supernova engine .",
    "roughly half of all neutron stars do receive a strong kick ( fryer , burrows , & benz 1998 ; arzoumanian , chernoff , & cordes 2002 ) . if collapse asymmetries are to produce the kick , we need the explosion to occur early . one way to achieve fast explosions is to rely upon low mass progenitors .",
    "low mass progenitors ( 8 - 12m@xmath8 ) will not have a large envelope to prevent the explosion and could explode quickly , producing strong kicks . since they make up half of all core - collapse events , it may be that these stars produce all the fast - moving neutron stars .",
    "but the progenitors for such systems are difficult to produce , and until a realistic progenitor is produced , it is difficult to test this scenario .",
    "the supernova explosion mechanism must also explain the explosion asymmetries observed in supernovae ( see akiyama et al .",
    "2003 for a review ) . as with neutron star kicks",
    ", our 3-dimensional simulations found that the level of ejecta asymmetry was much less than that predicted by 2-dimensional simulations .",
    "our asymmetric collapse simulations produce ejecta with @xmath16 ratios not larger than 1.2 , much lower than those predicted by the observations . but",
    "low mass progenitors or the merger of convective modes ( scheck et al . 2003 ) may produce sufficient asymmetries to explain the observations .    the asymmetry in the neutrino emission will dominate the gravitational wave signal ( burrows & hayes 1996 ) for these density perturbations . using the formulism set by mller & janka ( 1997 ) , we have calculated the gravitational wave signal from neutrino asymmetries both above ( positive z axis ) and below ( negative z axis ) the density perturbation ( fig .",
    "4 ) . note that the simulation including pertubations due to iron core oscillations produces a much stronger gravitational wave signal , despite the lower density perturbations .",
    "the gravitational wave signal can thus be used to study the motions of the pre - collapse stellar core ( fryer , holz , & hughes 2003 ) .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank t. janka and l. wang for extremely helpful advice on this paper .",
    "this work has been funded by doe scidac grant number de - fc02 - 01er41176 , a lanl - based asci grant , and nasa nag5 - 9192 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> many neutron stars are observed to be moving with spatial velocities , in excess of 500kms@xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> a number of mechanisms have been proposed to give neutron stars these high velocities . </S>",
    "<S> one of the leading classes of models proposed invokes asymmetries in the core of a massive star just prior to collapse . </S>",
    "<S> these asymmetries grow during the collapse , causing the resultant supernova to also be asymmetric . as the ejecta </S>",
    "<S> is launched , it pushes off ( or `` kicks '' ) the newly formed neutron star . </S>",
    "<S> this paper presents the first 3-dimensional supernova simulations of this process . </S>",
    "<S> the ejecta is not the only matter that kicks the newly - formed neutron star . </S>",
    "<S> neutrinos also carry away momentum and the asymmetric collapse leads also to asymmetries in the neutrinos </S>",
    "<S> . however , the neutrino asymmetries tend to damp out the neutron star motions and even the most extreme asymmetric collapses presented here do not produce final neutron star velocities above 200kms@xmath0 . </S>"
  ]
}