{
  "article_text": [
    "the x - ray emitting gas at the centers of many cooling flow clusters is cooler than the surrounding gas and has cooling times in the range @xmath3  @xmath4 y. despite this , little of the gas cools below @xmath5 kev ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the main issue for cooling flows has become to determine what heat source makes up for radiative losses from the gas .",
    "many possibilities have been proposed , including thermal conduction ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , energy released by mergers ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and heating by an active galactic nucleus ( agn ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , maintaining gas for many cooling times , while preventing it from cooling to low temperatures or being heated until its cooling time is comparable to its age , requires a fine balance between heating and cooling .",
    "since cooling flows are common @xcite , they can not be a transient phenomenon , and plausible mechanisms for maintaining the gas with short cooling times must almost certainly involve feedback . while they face some difficulties ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , agn heating models provide a natural feedback mechanism , making them the strongest candidate to solve this cooling flow problem .",
    "there is clear evidence for some agn heating in cooling flows .",
    "large galaxies are prevalent at cluster centers , and @xcite has shown that cd galaxies at the centers of cooling flows have a high incidence of radio activity .",
    "high resolution x - ray images reveal that radio lobes fed by agn have created cavities in the hot gas in a growing number of clusters @xcite and also in the hot interstellar medium of individual elliptical galaxies @xcite .",
    "@xcite pointed out that the enthalpy of a cavity ( bubble ) can be thermalized as it rises buoyantly , providing a heat source for the gas .",
    "simple arguments show that the enthalpy is thermalized in the wake of a rising bubble , provided that the bubble is not too large compared to its distance from the cluster center @xcite . using optimistic estimates for the heating rate , @xcite analyzed data for all cavities they could identify in the _ chandra _  archive and found that , while the heating rate due to bubbles can be significant , it typically falls several times short of radiative losses .",
    "standard models of jet - fed radio lobes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) posit the existence of a `` cocoon shock '' that surrounds the rapidly expanding radio lobes . although there is commonly a bright rim around the radio lobe cavities in x - ray clusters ,",
    "this is composed of cool ( low entropy ) gas , close to local pressure equilibrium ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , so that most cavities are not strongly over pressured ( cen a is a noteworthy exception , * ? ? ?",
    "however , evidence has begun to emerge for weak shocks generated by the radio lobes in cooling flows .",
    "@xcite found ripples in the surface brightness of the perseus cluster , which they interpret as weak shocks ( sound waves ) generated as the expansion rate of the lobes varies .",
    "they argue that heating due to viscous dissipation of sound can make up for radiative losses from the perseus cooling flow .",
    "this process has been simulated by @xcite .",
    "@xcite found a weak shock surrounding m87 in the virgo cluster , and @xcite found evidence of further shocks in a deeper x - ray image .",
    "they determined the energy of the outburst that drove the best defined shock , using the result to show that heating due to weak shocks is sufficient to stop the cooling flow in m87 .    here",
    "we report the discovery of a weak shock front generated by an agn outburst in the hydra a cluster .",
    "hydra a has well known radio lobe cavities @xcite , which surround the 1.4 ghz inner radio lobes and extend to @xmath6 ( 40 kpc ) from the cluster center .",
    "by contrast , the weak shock front discussed here extends up to @xmath7 from the cluster center , surrounding the much larger low frequency radio lobes @xcite and representing a much more energetic phenomenon .",
    "in section [ sec : obs ] we give details of the observations and data reduction . in section [ sec : struct ] we discuss the main features of the new deep image of hydra a and in section [ sec : shock ] we discuss the evidence for the shock front and estimate the energy of the outburst that drove it .",
    "the implications of this shock for cooling flows and clusters in general are discussed in section [ sec : disc ] .",
    "we assume flat @xmath8cdm , with @xmath9 and @xmath10 , giving a scale of @xmath11 at the redshift of hydra a , @xmath12 .",
    "hydra a was observed with _ chandra _  for 98.2 ksec on 13 jan 2004 , with acis - s at the aim point in vfaint mode ( obsid 4969 ) .",
    "a z - sim offset of 5 mm was used to keep the cluster center close to the optical axis , while extending the field of view to the north to cover the northern low frequency radio lobe @xcite .",
    "the event list was screened to removed asca grades 1 , 5 and 7 , and bad pixels in the standard manner .",
    "a large background flare made it necessary to set the mean background count rate manually when using lc_clean to remove periods of high particle background , but the mean count rate in acis s1 after cleaning is close to the expected value .",
    "after cleaning , 66.4 ksec of good data were left .",
    "the data were processed to correct for time dependence of the acis gainalexey / acis / tgain/ ] .",
    "data were filtered according to the prescription of vikhlinin to reduce particle background .",
    "background event files were created by processing the standard acis background files in the same manner as the data .",
    "point sources were identified manually for removal from spectra and surface brightness profiles . when extracting spectra , arf s and rmf s for extended regions are weighted by the number of events in each subregion .",
    "arf s are corrected to allow for the reduction in low energy response due to the build up of contaminant on the acis filters .",
    "gaussian and divided by a spherical beta model centered on the agn .",
    "the chips are @xmath13 wide .",
    "the cavities of @xcite can be seen close to the bright agn .",
    "the cavity @xmath14  @xmath15 northeast of the agn ( cavity c ) , at the end of the bright filament , occurs where the 330 mhz radio jet bends sharply to the northwest ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : shrad ] ) .",
    "the shock front surrounding the radio lobes of fig .",
    "[ fig : shrad ] is visible , particularly to the east and north . ]",
    "[ fig : smff ] shows a background - subtracted , exposure - corrected and smoothed image of hydra a in the 0.5  7.5 kev band . in order to make structures visible over a wide range of radius ,",
    "the image has been divided by a spherical beta model , with a core radius of @xmath16 , @xmath17 and centered on the agn .",
    "the field is covered by acis s3 and part of s2 ( to the northeast ) . for scale , the chips are @xmath13 wide . the southwest cavity of @xcite can be seen @xmath18 to the southwest of the bright agn .",
    "the corresponding radio cavity to the northeast is also visible , though less clearly defined .",
    "a @xmath19 bright filament stretches from the inner cavity to about the center of a larger outer cavity in the northeast ( cavity c ) .",
    "the association between the @xmath14 bright filament to the northeast and the radio jet of hydra a is reminiscent of the southwest filament in m87 @xcite , suggesting a similar origin .",
    "the filament in hydra a is roughly twice as long as that in m87 , but the radio source in hydra a is a lot larger too .",
    "cavity c has a radius @xmath20 ( 40 kpc ) and occurs at the sharp bend in the radio jet leading to the northern 330 mhz radio lobe ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : shrad ] ) .",
    "there is also a deficit in the x - ray emission @xmath21 to the southwest of the agn , associated with the southern 330 mhz radio lobe .",
    "is shown with logarithmically spaced contours from the 330 mhz radio map .",
    "the two closed contours near the center of the map are at the position of the 1.4 ghz radio lobes , marking the locations of the inner x - ray cavities that can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : smff ] . ]",
    "there is an edge in x - ray surface brightness , running from @xmath22 east to @xmath7 north of the agn , that continues around the agn .",
    "the northern part of this edge was noted previously by @xcite and by @xcite .",
    "although it is less distinct to the west , the feature can be traced all the way around the agn , except where it falls off the detectors in the south .",
    "we will interpret the feature as a shock front and refer to it this way from here on .",
    "[ fig : shrad ] shows the same x - ray image as fig .",
    "[ fig : smff ] together with contours of the 330 mhz radio map of @xcite .",
    "the northern radio lobe lies close inside the northern part of the shock front and has a similar shape .",
    "although the x - ray image of the shock front is truncated to the south , enough of it is visible to see that , along with the 330 mhz radio lobe , it lies closer to the agn in the south .",
    "the correspondence between the shapes of the radio lobes and the shock front supports the interpretation of this surface brightness feature as a shock front driven by the outburst that formed the radio lobes .",
    "to @xmath23 , to the west of the agn , and in the energy range 0.6  7.5 kev .",
    "surface brightness errors are 1 sigma statistical errors .",
    "radial error bars show the limits of the bins .",
    "the smooth curves show surface brightness profiles for shock models with mach numbers of 1.15 , 1.19 and 1.23 , from bottom to top .",
    "models are scaled to match the observed surface brightness outside the shock . _",
    "lower panel : _ 0.6  7.5 kev surface brightness profile of the shock front in the northeast , measured in a sector from pa @xmath24 to @xmath25 and centered @xmath26 north of the agn .",
    "models are shown for shocks with mach numbers of 1.26 , 1.34 and 1.42 . ]     to @xmath23 , to the west of the agn , and in the energy range 0.6  7.5 kev .",
    "surface brightness errors are 1 sigma statistical errors .",
    "radial error bars show the limits of the bins .",
    "the smooth curves show surface brightness profiles for shock models with mach numbers of 1.15 , 1.19 and 1.23 , from bottom to top .",
    "models are scaled to match the observed surface brightness outside the shock . _",
    "lower panel : _ 0.6  7.5 kev surface brightness profile of the shock front in the northeast , measured in a sector from pa @xmath24 to @xmath25 and centered @xmath26 north of the agn .",
    "models are shown for shocks with mach numbers of 1.26 , 1.34 and 1.42 . ]",
    "the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sbw ] shows the surface brightness profile of the region to the west of hydra a , in a sector centered on the agn , from pa @xmath27 to @xmath23 .",
    "point sources were eliminated , background subtracted and the resulting profile exposure corrected .",
    "the abrupt change in slope at a radius of @xmath28 ( 211 kpc ) is due to the feature that we identify as a shock . outside this",
    ", the surface brightness is well fitted by the power law , @xmath29 with @xmath30 ( 90% confidence ) .",
    "a surface brightness profile was also extracted in the region to the northeast of the agn , where the edge in the surface brightness is most prominent .",
    "this is shown in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sbw ] . in order to match the curvature of the radial bins to that of the front",
    ", the sector was centered at a point approximately @xmath26 north of the agn ( at j2000 @xmath31 ) , with the range of pa @xmath24 to @xmath32 .",
    "although the data are noisy , the edge is evident in the surface brightness profile at a radius of about @xmath33 ( measured from the center of the sector ) .",
    "the break in surface brightness in the northeast is greater than that in the west , showing that the shock is stronger in the northeast .",
    "this is consistent with expectations for radio lobe driven shocks .",
    "shock strength is determined by the ratio of postshock to preshock pressure .",
    "the preshock pressure is significantly lower in the north , where the shock is farthest from the cluster center . to a first approximation ,",
    "the pressure rise behind the shock is uniform around the front ( assuming that jet momentum is insignificant on such large scales ) .",
    "thus , the pressure jump will be greater at points on the shock front that are further from the cluster center .",
    "the shock front lies @xmath34 west of the agn and @xmath22 to the east , implying a significant east - west asymmetry in shock speed .",
    "this is most likely due to asymmetry in the medium carrying the shock ( as opposed to the outburst driving it ) and probably the result of higher gas density to the west .",
    "if the cluster were spherically symmetric , the shock front would be running through denser gas in the west than in the east .",
    "any pre - existing density asymmetry that slowed the propagation of the shock to the west would augment this density difference .",
    "if postshock pressure is much the same in the east and west , then the shock will be weaker in the west , where it propagates through higher pressure gas .",
    "the western shock also appears superimposed on a higher `` background '' of emission from undisturbed cluster gas .",
    "together , these effects make the shock less distinct in the x - ray image to the west than to the east , but it is clearly visible in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sbw ] .      to quantify the shock , we have used a spherically symmetric , hydrodynamic model of a point explosion at the center of an initially isothermal , hydrostatic atmosphere . for the shock front in the west ,",
    "the initial gas density profile is assumed to be a power law , @xmath35 , with @xmath36 , which makes the surface brightness profile of the undisturbed gas consistent with the observed surface brightness profile beyond the shock ( see above ) . the gravitational field ( @xmath37 ) and gas temperature",
    "are scaled to make the undisturbed atmosphere hydrostatic .",
    "surface brightness profiles are determined from the model , assuming that the temperature of the unshocked gas is 4 kev .",
    "the _ chandra _",
    "0.6  7.5 kev response was computed using xspec , with detector response files appropriate for these observations and an absorbed mekal model .",
    "the foreground column density was set to @xmath38 , the redshift to 0.0538 and the abundance to 0.3 times solar , as appropriate for hydra a ( results are insensitive to these parameters , including the preshock temperature ) .",
    "the shock weakens as the hydrodynamic model evolves and , since the initial conditions are self - similar , the flow can be scaled radially to place the model shock at the location of the observed shock .",
    "surface brightness is scaled to match the observed profile in the unshocked region .",
    "the three lines in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sbw ] show model surface brightness profiles for shocks with mach numbers of 1.15 , 1.19 and 1.23 ( increasing upward ) .",
    "a mach 1.2 shock gives a reasonably good fit to the observed shock profile to the west .",
    "models were also constructed for the shock to the northwest . here",
    "the preshock density profile is flatter , requiring an initial density power law @xmath39 ( largely because the shock does not propagate radially in the cluster ) .",
    "model surface brightness profiles are shown in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sbw ] for mach numbers of 1.26 , 1.34 and 1.42 .",
    "the mach number of the shock to the northeast @xmath40  1.4 , again confirming that the shock is stronger in the northeast than in the west .",
    "our simple hydrodynamic model is not accurate well behind the shock .",
    "the initial density profile is only well approximated as a power law locally .",
    "the shock front is clearly aspherical .",
    "the outer radio lobes lie close behind the shock front , so that they still have an influence in driving the shock ( if not , they would have been left behind the rapidly moving front ) , violating our assumption that the shock front is driven by a point explosion .",
    "however , since the lobes are not close to the shock front everywhere , it would also be necessary to drop our assumption of spherical symmetry to make significantly more accurate models .",
    "because of this , the added complexity of models with energy fed continuously into the center of the flow is not warranted . despite these shortcomings",
    ", the models do provide reasonable fits to the surface brightness in the region of the shock front .",
    "in particular , they give reasonably accurate measures of the mach number ( the main source of uncertainty is the assumption , implicit in the spherical model , that we know the curvature of the front along the line of sight ) .",
    "we base our estimates of outburst age and energy on the model for the western shock , since the assumptions of spherical symmetry and a point explosion are more appropriate in this region .",
    "the age and energy of the model outburst depend on the temperature and density of the unshocked gas , which we determine by deprojection .",
    "the sector to the west of the agn , in which the surface brightness profile of the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : sbw ] was measured , was divided into annular regions having at least 4000 source counts in the 0.6  7.5 kev band .",
    "one boundary was fixed at the radius of the shock and others fitted around this in order to avoid smoothing across the shock .",
    "spectra extracted from these regions were used for the deprojection .",
    "the method is essentially as described in @xcite .",
    "the spectral model for each ring ( annular region ) includes components for all outer shells as well as the current one .",
    "only model parameters for the current shell are varied when fitting a ring , so that parameters for each spherical shell are determined in turn , working inward .",
    "the model component for each outer shell is weighted by the ratio of the volumes of the intersections between that shell , and the current and outer rings .",
    "however , weights for the outermost shell were determined on the assumption that the gas density follows the same power law as the undisturbed gas in the shock model ( @xmath41 ) , from the inside edge of that shell to infinity , so allowing for the remainder of the cluster .",
    "gas density is determined from the xspec norm of each model component , assuming that the gas density is constant in the corresponding shell . for the outermost shell",
    ", the gas density is determined at the center of the shell , under the assumptions used to determine the weights for that shell .",
    "even with 4000 counts per spectrum , the errors for the deprojected temperatures ( @xmath42 kev ) are too large to reveal the temperature jump of the shock . for a shock mach number of 1.2 , the temperature jumps by @xmath43 at the shock , but it falls rapidly behind the shock due to adiabatic expansion . as a result , the temperature rise in the shell immediately inside the shock is only expected to be @xmath44 . the preshock temperature determined from the deprojection is approximately 4 kev and we use this value for further calculations .     to @xmath23 .",
    "the shock jump is at 211 kpc .",
    "density error bars are 90% confidence ranges , but some are hidden by the data point . ]    the deprojected electron density profile is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dep ] .",
    "electron densities are determined much more accurately than temperatures , chiefly because the overall _",
    "chandra_count rate is insensitive to gas temperature in the range of interest .",
    "the density jump due to the shock at a radius of 211 kpc can be seen clearly .",
    "it is consistent with the @xmath45 jump expected for a mach 1.2 shock .    using the deprojected temperature and density of the unshocked gas to normalize the physical parameters of the shock model",
    ", we find that the age of the outburst is @xmath46 y and its total energy is @xmath47 erg .",
    "the main source of uncertainty in the age of the shock is the preshock temperature , since the mach number is not sensitive to the model ( if the shocked cocoon is axially symmetric , the size we measure is not affected by projection ) .",
    "shock energy is proportional to the preshock temperature .",
    "it also depends on the density profile of the unshocked gas .",
    "there is a substantial geometric uncertainty , since the shock front is clearly aspherical .",
    "our estimate uses the piece of the shock that is nearest to the cluster center , underestimating the total shocked volume , so tending to underestimate the total energy .",
    "lastly , our estimate is affected by the inaccurate assumption of a point explosion . despite all this",
    ", we expect the true energy of the outburst to be no more than a factor @xmath48 astray .",
    "the mean mechanical power of the outburst is @xmath49 .       to @xmath23 .",
    "error bars shows 90% confidence ranges for the temperature . ]",
    "interpreting the shock feature as a cold front instead would be difficult , although temperatures are not determined accurately enough from the current data to categorically rule this out .",
    "the density discontinuity ( fig .",
    "[ fig : dep ] ) shows that there is a front .",
    "if it is a cold front , the pressure must be continuous there .",
    "otherwise the only physically reasonable interpretation is a shock . for a density decrease @xmath45 ,",
    "the temperature must increase by @xmath45 to keep the pressure continuous .",
    "[ fig : tproj ] shows projected temperature versus radius for the sector where the deprojection was done .",
    "temperatures were obtained by fitting absorbed mekal models , with the absorbing column fixed at the foreground value ( @xmath50 ) and the abundance free . if anything , temperature decreases with radius at the front ( @xmath51 kpc ) .",
    "the same is true at other pa s , where greater density steps would require greater temperature steps . according to the shock model ,",
    "the maximum rise in projected temperature should be @xmath52 , confined to the two rings behind the shock .",
    "this is consistent with fig .",
    "[ fig : tproj ] , although there is a mild negative temperature gradient in the vicinity of the shock that is not included in our simple shock model .",
    "the association between the front and the radio lobes is much better explained by a shock driven by an outburst than by a cold front .",
    "furthermore , cold fronts are thought to be contact discontinuities formed when a body of gas moves through gas of higher entropy . in that case , it would be difficult to form a closed cold front , whereas a shock driven by an outburst at the cluster center is expected to surround the agn .",
    "altogether , the evidence strongly favors interpretation of this feature as a shock front .",
    "x - ray measurements of shock properties provide a new tool for the study of agn outbursts and radio sources . as discussed above , the uncertainty in the age of the outburst , @xmath53 , is mainly due to uncertainty in the the preshock temperature .",
    "shock strength is determined by the overpressure of the radio lobes .",
    "if it remains constant , then , under the assumptions of our simple shock model , the total energy of the shocked region scales as @xmath54 , where @xmath55 is the shock radius and @xmath56 is the time since the outburst .",
    "jet power needs to vary with time as @xmath57 to keep up with this .",
    "the shock weakens or strengthens with time , depending on whether jet power lags or leads this time dependence .",
    "the fraction of the total energy going into cavity enthalpy also depends on the overpressure of the cavities .",
    "detailed modeling will constrain the history of the agn outburst .",
    "although there are two x - ray cavities visible along the northeastern radio jet , none is evident at the location of the northern radio lobe .",
    "however , the surface brightness is low there and has structure on the scale of the lobe ( including the shock front ) that helps to mask any cavity if it is present .",
    "as found for the inner cavities @xcite , cavity c in the northeast is made easier to recognize by the bright rim along its outer edge ( fig .",
    "[ fig : smff ] ) . without this , the contrast of cavity c would only be @xmath58 , making it considerably harder to see .",
    "the structure of the northeastern jet and the shock front suggest a complex history for the radio source .",
    "if the bulk of the northeastern jet was filled with a connected body of radio plasma at the onset of the current outburst , a compression wave ( shock ) would have been launched simultaneously from its whole length .",
    "if , as it is now , the shock was strongest in the regions of lowest preshock pressure , near to the outer lobes , it would have propagated farthest in those regions ( as in the simulations of * ? ? ?",
    "this is inconsistent with the bulges in the shock front to the east and west of the center , suggesting that this did not happen . at the other extreme ,",
    "the outburst could have launched a new jet that has penetrated @xmath59 kpc from the agn to the northern radio lobe in @xmath60 y , with a mean speed of @xmath61 .",
    "it appears unlikely that jet momentum would have been significant for the propagation of the jet beyond the location of cavity c , where it turns through @xmath62 .",
    "if so , the mean speed of the lobe is excessive for a bubble that was driven most of the way by buoyancy ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the intermediate case , of a newly launched jet connecting after a time into aging trails of radio plasma left by earlier outbursts can avoid these two extremes .",
    "it also requires more modest asymmetries in gas properties than the pure jet model to account for the north - south asymmetry of the radio structure and shock front .",
    "it needs to be asked whether the outburst in hydra a has any connection to the cooling flow .",
    "if so , then the gas that fuels it must be cooled or cooling intracluster medium ( icm ) .",
    "the line emitting gas at the center of hydra a might have been deposited by a merger @xcite , which could also be the source of fuel for the outburst . as discussed in the introduction ,",
    "the strongest argument for a connection between the outburst and the cooling flow is the difficulty of maintaining cool cores without feedback , but this does not rule out occasional mergers leading to larger than usual outbursts . on the other hand ,",
    "large outbursts appear to play a significant role in balancing radiative losses ( see below ) . in that case , it would be surprising if they were not part of the feedback process .",
    "the correlation between cooling luminosity and cavity heating power found by @xcite also suggests strongly that the two are connected by feedback across the full range of systems .",
    "the outburst in hydra a is three orders of magnitude more energetic than that which produced the 14 kpc shock in m87 ( @xmath63 erg , * ? ? ?",
    "the outbursts responsible for the ripples in perseus @xcite lie somewhere between these in energy .",
    "ms0735.6 + 7421 @xcite and hercules a ( nulsen et al .",
    ", in preparation ) both have more energetic outbursts than hydra a. at the least , outbursts span a large range of energies .",
    "a large sample is required to determine whether the large outbursts form a distinct class from those required to regulate cooling cores .    in the absence of heat sources ,",
    "radiating gas cools to low temperature in approximately one cooling time , even after allowing for flow induced by the cooling .",
    "thus , if the mass of gas inside radius @xmath64 is @xmath65 and the cooling time of gas at radius @xmath64 is @xmath66 , a good approximation to the cooling rate when the gas between @xmath67 and @xmath68 is cooling to low temperatures is @xcite @xmath69 applying this to the results of @xcite for hydra a shows that the cooling rate would reach @xmath70 almost immediately at the onset of cooling , and climb steadily thereafter .",
    "such high cooling rates have yet to demonstrated convincingly for any cluster ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and so must be rare .",
    "this requires that , if there is any period when the gas cools to low temperatures , it must be brief compared to observed central cooling times .",
    "thus another outburst must occur before , or very soon after , the central gas begins to cool in @xmath71 y @xcite .",
    "the maximum time between the last outburst and the next is therefore @xmath72 y , and the minimum average power required for such outbursts to prevent the gas from cooling is @xmath73 , significantly more than the @xmath74 radiated from within 150 kpc of the cluster center @xcite .",
    "the outburst in hydra a can not be a very efficient process for regulating the cool core .",
    "the shock front and outer radio lobe already lie outside the cooling flow region , `` wasting '' energy in the cluster at large radii and making the inefficiency manifest .",
    "energy that is deposited outside the cooling flow region adds to the total energy of the icm and , as noted by @xcite , it can make an appreciable contribution to cluster `` preheating . '' for a cluster temperature of 4 kev , the virial mass of hydra a is about @xmath75 @xcite and its gas mass about @xmath76 ( for a gas fraction of 14% ) .",
    "the mean heating power required to add 1 kev per particle to this gas over @xmath77 y is @xmath78 .",
    "our estimates of the mean heating power from agn outbursts lie in the range @xmath79  @xmath80 , so that the `` waste '' power could easily be a major source of preheating in hydra a. there is no reason to believe that outbursts in much smaller systems ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) are more efficient , so these may also make significant contributions to preheating .",
    "@xcite found that bubble heating alone is insufficient to make up for radiative losses in most cooling flows .",
    "it should be noted that hydra a was one of the exceptions .",
    "the total of @xmath81 for the two 1.4 ghz inner cavities in hydra a is @xmath82 @xcite .",
    "taking the pressure from @xcite , for cavity c to the northeast we estimate @xmath83 .",
    "doubling this to allow for outer cavities to the southwest , the total of @xmath81 for cavities in hydra a is now @xmath84 .",
    "if the cavities are filled with relativistic plasma , their total enthalpy is the sum of @xmath85 for each , roughly one third of the estimated total energy of the shock .",
    "the shocks in hydra a and other systems @xcite show that bubble enthalpy may not be the most significant form of mechanical energy produced by agn outbursts . as noted above , two systems have been found with even more energetic shocks ( hercules a , nulsen et al .",
    ", in preparation ; ms0735.6 + 7421 , * ? ? ?",
    "if they are a general feature of agn outbursts , shocks will certainly help to account for the energetics of cooling flows .",
    "@xcite found a large scatter in the ratio of radio power to bubble power , suggesting that current radio power is not a good measure of the history of agn outbursts , even on timescales @xmath86  @xmath3 y. however , while the central galaxies in cooling flow clusters are frequently active in the radio , radio sources as large as hydra a are exceptional .",
    "if such outbursts do occur in a significant proportion of all clusters , they can only be powerful radio sources for a relatively small fraction of the time .",
    "the mass , @xmath87 , that was accreted by the agn to fuel this outburst can be related to the shock energy by @xmath88 , where @xmath89 is the efficiency of the agn for converting accreted mass into jet power ( or other mechanical output ) . with our value for the shock energy , this gives @xmath90 .",
    "this exceeds the estimated mass of the black hole in hydra a , @xmath91 @xcite , unless the mechanical efficiency of the agn @xmath92 .",
    "the mean mechanical power of the outburst , @xmath93 , is in the range of quasar luminosities , but a modest fraction of the eddington limit for such a massive black hole .",
    "it is well in excess of the power needed to make up for radiative losses from the cooling flow .",
    "a deep _ chandra _  x - ray image of hydra a has revealed new structure associated with the hydra a radio source .",
    "this includes a break in the surface brightness 200  300 kpc from the cluster center that we interpret as a shock front .",
    "the shock front surrounds the low frequency radio lobes , closely in places , showing a significant resemblance , and we interpret it as the cocoon shock of the radio source .",
    "the mach number of the shock varies in the range @xmath0  1.4 around the front .",
    "simple modeling shows that the shock outburst commenced @xmath1 y ago and its energy @xmath94 erg .",
    "the mean mechanical power of the outburst @xmath95 , in the range of quasar luminosities .",
    "such large outbursts can easily account for the radiative losses from the cooling flow in hydra a. if they are part of a feedback cycle that sustains the cool gas in hydra a , then the feedback heating process is inefficient , in the sense that more than half of the mechanical energy output of the agn is deposited in regions outside the cooling flow . over time",
    "this will have produced significant `` preheating '' of hydra a.    pejn was partly supported by nasa grants nas8 - 01130 and nas8 - 03060 .",
    "we thank maxim markevitch for drawing our attention to the the shock feature before the new data were taken .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge the assistance of alexey vikhlinin and maxim markevitch in reducing the _ chandra _  data .",
    "we thank wendy lane peters and namir kassim for providing the radio map .",
    "birzan , l. , rafferty , d. a. , mcnamara , b. r. , wise , m. w. , nulsen , p. e. j. 2004 , , 607 , 800 blanton , e. l. , sarazin , c. l. , mcnamara , b. r. , wise , m. w. 2001 , , 558 , l15 bhringer , h. , voges , w. , fabian , a. c. , edge , a. c. , neumann , d. m. 1993 , , 264 , l25 bryan , g. l. , norman , m. l. 1998 , , 495 , 80 burns , j. o. 1990 , , 99 , 14 carilli , c. l. , perley , r. a. , harris , d. e. 1994 , , 270 , 173 churazov , e. , brggen , m. , kaiser , c. r. , bhringer , h. , forman , w. 2001 , , 554 , 261 churazov , e. , sunyaev , r. , forman , w. , bhringer , h. 2002 , , 332 , 729 david , l. p. , nulsen , p. e. j. , mcnamara , b. r. , forman , w. , jones , c. , ponman , t. , robertson , b. , wise , m. 2001 , , 557 , 546 fabian , a. c. 1994 , , 32 , 277 fabian , a. c. , nulsen , p. e. j. 1979 , , 186 , 783 fabian , a. c. , sanders , j. s. , ettori , s. , taylor , g. b. , allen , s. w. , crawford , c. s. , iwasawa , k. , johnstone , r. m. , ogle , p. m. 2000 , , 318 , l65 fabian , a. c. , mushotzky , r. f. , nulsen , p. e. j. , peterson , j. r. 2001 , , 321 , l20 fabian , a. c. , sanders , j. s. , allen , s. w. , crawford , c. s. , iwasawa , k. , johnstone , r. m. , schmidt , r. w. , taylor , g. b. 2003 , , 344 , l43 finoguenov , a. , jones , c. 2001 , , 547 , l107 forman , w. , david , l. , jones , c. , markevitch , m. , mcnamara , b. , vikhlinin , a. 2000 , in constructing the universe with clusters of galaxies , ed .",
    "f. durret & d. gerbal ( paris : iap ) forman , w. , nulsen , p. , heinz , s. , owen , f. , eilek , j. , vikhlinin , a. , markevitch , m. , kraft , r. , churazov , e. , jones , c. 2004 , , submitted ( astro - ph/0312576 ) heinz , s. , reynolds , c. s. , begelman , m. c. 1998 , , 501 , 126 heinz , s. , choi , y .- y .",
    ", reynolds , c. s. , begelman , m. c. 2002 , , 569 , l79 kaastra , j. s. , tamura , t. , peterson , j. s. , bleeker , j. a. m. , ferrigno , c. , kahn , s. m. , paerels , f. b. s. , piffaretti , r. , branduardi - raymont , g. , bhringer , h. 2004 , , 413 , 415 kraft , r. p. , vzquez , s. e. , forman , w. r. , jones , c. , murray , s. s. , hardcastle , m. j. , worrall , d. m. , churazov , e. 2003 , , 592 , 129 kraft , r. p. , forman , w. r. , churazov , e. , laslo , n. , jones , c. , markevitch , m. , murray , s. s. , vikhlinin , a. 2004 , , 601 , 221 lane , w. m. , clarke , t. e. , taylor , g. b. , perley , r. a. , kassim , n. e. 2004 , , 127 , 48 markevitch , m. , vikhlinin , a. , forman , w. r. 2002 , in matter and energy in clusters of galaxies , ed . s. bowyer & c .- y .",
    "hwang , asp conf .",
    "ser . , 301 , 37 mcnamara , b. r. 1995 , , 443 , 77 mcnamara , b. r. , wise , m. , nulsen , p. e. j. , david , l. p. , sarazin , c. l. , bautz , m. , markevitch , m. , vikhlinin , a. , forman , w. r. , jones , c. , harris , d. e. 2000 , , 534 , l135 mcnamara , b. r. , wise , m. w. , nulsen , p. e. j. , david , l. p. , carilli , c. l. , sarazin , c. l. , odea , c. p. , houck , j. , donahue , m. , baum , s. , voit , m. , oconnell , r. w. , koekemoer , a. 2001 , , 562 , l149 mcnamara , b. r. , nulsen , p. e. j. , wise , m. w.,rafferty , d. a. , carilli , c. , sarazin , c. l. , blanton , e. l. 2004 , , submitted motl , p. m. , burns , j. o. , loken , c. , norman , m. l. , bryan , g. 2004 , , 606 , 635 narayan , r. , medvedev , m. v. 2001 , , 562 , l129 nulsen , p. e. j. , david , l. p. , mcnamara , b. r. , jones , c. , forman , w. r. , wise , m. 2002 , , 568 , 163 peterson , j. r. , paerels , f. b. s. , kaastra , j. s. , arnaud , m. , reiprich , t. h. , fabian , a. c. , mushotzky , r. f. , jernigan , j. g. , sakelliou , i. 2001 , , 365 , l104 peterson , j. r. , kahn , s. m. , paerels , f. b. s. , kaastra , j. s. , tamura , t. , bleeker , j. a. m. , ferrigno , c. , jernigan , j. g. 2003 , , 590 , 207 ruszkowski , m. , brggen , m. , begelman , m. c. 2004 , , in press ( astro - ph/0310760 ) sambruna , r. m. , chartas , g. , eracleous , m. , mushotzky , r. f. , nousek , j. a. 2000 , , 532 , l91 scheuer , p. a. g. 1974 , , 166 , 513 schindler , s. , castillo - morales , a. , de fillippis , e. , schwope , a. , wambganss , j. 2001 , , 376 , l27 tabor , g. , binney , j. 1993 , 263 , 323 tamura , t. , kaastra , j. s. , peterson , j. r. , paerels , f. b. s. , mittaz , j. p. d. , trudolyubov , s. p. , stewart , g. , fabian , a. c. , mushotzky , r. f. , lumb , d. h. , ikebe , y. 2001 , , 365 , l87 tucker , w. , david , l. p. 1997",
    ", , 484 , 602 young , a. j. , wilson , a. s. , mundell , c. g. 2002 , , 579 , 560"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> deep _ chandra _  observations of the hydra a cluster reveal a feature in the x - ray surface brightness that surrounds the 330 mhz radio lobes of the agn at the cluster center . </S>",
    "<S> surface brightness profiles of this feature and its close association with the radio lobes argue strongly that it is a shock front driven by the expanding radio lobes . </S>",
    "<S> the _ chandra _  </S>",
    "<S> image also reveals other new structure on smaller scales that is associated with the radio source , including a large cavity and filament . </S>",
    "<S> the shock front extends 200  300 kpc from the agn at the cluster center and its strength varies along the front , with mach numbers in the range @xmath0  1.4 . </S>",
    "<S> it is stronger where it is more distant from the cluster center , as expected for a shock driven by expanding radio lobes . </S>",
    "<S> simple modeling gives an age for the shock front @xmath1 y and a total energy driving it of @xmath2 erg . </S>",
    "<S> the mean mechanical power driving the shock is comparable to quasar luminosities , well in excess of that needed to regulate the cooling core in hydra a. this suggests that the feedback regulating cooling cores is inefficient , in that the bulk of the energy is deposited beyond the cooling core . in that case , a significant part of cluster `` preheating '' is a byproduct of the regulation of cooling cores . </S>"
  ]
}