{
  "article_text": [
    "the supersoft x - ray sources ( sss ) are a class of x - ray objects discovered by the _ einstein _",
    "x - ray observatory in the late 1970s @xcite . during the 1990s",
    "the class of sss has been considerably enlarged through the _ rosat _ all - sky survey @xcite .",
    "archetypal sss sources include cal  83 and cal  87 , whose defining characteristic is their extremely luminous emission ( up to @xmath5 ergs@xmath1 ) at very soft ( @xmath6 kev ) x - ray energies . as such , the sss are rendered undetectable in the galactic plane due to the high level of x - ray absorption , with known sources lying predominantly in the magellanic clouds and m31 ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    that the sss are low mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs - e.g. @xcite )",
    "was suggested soon after their discovery by their optical spectra . among the _ rosat _ discoveries are several systems which also show these hallmarks , including rx j0513.9 - 6951 , which is the object of this paper ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter s96 ) , and for convenience will be hereafter referred to as rxj0513 .",
    "the sss exhibit strong emission lines of h , heii and higher ionization species , which probably arise in a hot accretion disk or an associated wind .",
    "optical spectroscopic and photometric studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) yielded some binary information , mainly orbital periods ( in the range @xmath7  hrs ) , yet the nature of the compact object was not clear .",
    "`` normal '' lmxbs containing neutron star or black hole accretors radiate in a wider energy range at the typical luminosities observed in the sss . using the observed sss temperatures and bolometric luminosities , van den heuvel et al .",
    "( 1992 , hereafter vdh92 ) therefore proposed that these sources in fact contain white dwarf compact objects .",
    "the near - eddington luminosities are achieved because the white dwarf accretor is able to sustain steady nuclear burning at its surface .",
    "this requires anomalously high accretion rates ( when compared , for example , to most cataclysmic variables ; cvs ) of @xmath8  yr@xmath1 .",
    "however , such rates _ are _ attainable if the donor star is comparable to or more massive than the white dwarf , so that thermally unstable mass transfer occurs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the vdh92 accreting white dwarf model for the sss still lacks convincing observational confirmation .",
    "however , circumstantial evidence in its favour was presented by s96 who showed that the observed bipolar outflow emission lines @xcite in the transient sss , rxj0513 , have velocities comparable to the escape velocity of a massive white dwarf .",
    "rxj0513  was discovered in the _ rosat _ all sky survey @xcite , and the extended monitoring of the lmc showed its unique characteristic , namely a very large variability which made it a type of transient .",
    "the observations showed that the source brightness increased by a factor of @xmath9 during a period of 10 days .",
    "@xcite found that the pspc spectrum was well - fitted by a blackbody of temperature @xmath10 ev , with a column density of @xmath11 @xmath12 and bolometric x - ray luminosity of @xmath13 ergs s@xmath1 .",
    "a key breakthrough in our understanding of the sss came about through the macho project @xcite survey of a field in the lmc that contained rxj0513 .",
    "this led to the production by s96 of an exceptional 3.5 year lightcurve of the @xmath14 optical counterpart which revealed recurrent low states ( dropping by @xmath15 mag ) at quasi - regular intervals ( every @xmath3 days ) and remaining low for @xmath16 days .",
    "more importantly , the _ rosat _ x - ray detections are _ only _ reported during such ( optical ) low states , while no outbursts have been observed during the extensive optical high states .",
    "this showed that the x - ray and optical states are _ anti_-correlated .",
    "furthermore , analysis of the high state optical data revealed a low amplitude modulation at a period of 18.3 hrs which s96 interpret as the orbital period of rxj0513 .",
    "the remarkable behaviour observed in rxj0513  is very difficult to reconcile with a regular thermonuclear flash model which is normally accompanied by radius expansion and an increased optical luminosity .",
    "instead s96 proposed a contraction of the white dwarf from an expanded , eddington - limited state to a steady shell - burning phase as a cause for the x - ray outburst .",
    "this is consistent with _ all _ the available data , and an x - ray phase due to contraction of the envelope during shell - burning has been established observationally for gq mus @xcite .    but what is the cause of such contractions ?",
    "s96 proposed that this could be due to a decrease in the otherwise very high accretion rate , which would also account for the simultaneous optical low states .",
    "this then draws an analogy for rxj0513  with the vy scl class of cvs in that they experience _",
    "transitions from an otherwise normal _ on _ state @xcite . of course , the shell luminosity will be even higher in the optically bright state , but the system is then close to the top of the steady burning strip in the @xmath17 plane @xcite which means the white dwarf is inflated ( perhaps by a factor 3 in radius ; * ? ? ?",
    "hence most of the shell luminosity would then be emitted in the uv or euv .",
    "this leads to the prediction that , if this model is correct , as the x - ray outburst evolves it will end with its peak emission ( or temperature ) shifting into the euv and uv .",
    "we present here the first _ xmm - newton _  observations of rxj0513  through one of its optical low states .",
    "_ xmm - newton _  is ideal for this study because , via its onboard optical monitor , we automatically obtain simultaneous uv photometry .",
    "we use these data to examine the validity of the vdh92 paradigm for sss via the prediction of s96 for the x - ray turn - on and turn - off .",
    "if we can confirm directly the vdh92 paradigm for sss then this will also establish them as one of the strong candidates for the progenitors of type ia supernovae ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we were granted too status for observations of rxj0513  as part of the cycle 2 of _ xmm - newton_. when the source started its @xmath18 mag drop in the optical we would trigger our _ xmm - newton _  observations . to enable this we set - up a ground based optical monitoring campaign . from 2002 december 5 ( mjd 24520613.5 ) to 2004 june 11 ( mjd 2453167.5 ) we obtained @xmath19-band and unfiltered observations of rxj0513  from saao ( sutherland , south africa ) , ctio ( la serena , chile ) , and barfold observatory ( victoria , australia ) .",
    "table  [ opt_obs ] gives the observing log .",
    "aperture photometry was performed on all of the observations using custom packages .",
    "the magnitude of the source was determined using the magnitude of a comparison star ( @xmath20 ; star 2 ; @xcite ) .",
    "the optical light curve of rxj0513  is shown in figure  [ opt_lc ] .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,>,<,^,^,^ , > , < \" , ]     we note that the columns required to reproduce the deep absorption features are one to two orders of magnitude higher than the neutral absorption column fitted to the pn spectra , which was consistent with the galactic absorption in the direction of rxj0513 .",
    "this is unsurprising since the very highly - ionized gas giving rise to the intrinsic absorption features requires much higher columns than neutral material in order to leave a spectral signature , and , at least in the earliest rgs observations , discrete spectral line absorption dominates over continuum ( edge ) absorption . by the time the final observations were taken ,",
    "however , the deep absorption features visible even at the pn spectral resolution are an indication that the intrinsic ionized absorption column has become much deeper .",
    "it is possible that the apparent highly anomalous abundances of n , s and ar are the result of partial covering ; if the covering factors of the phases are less than unity , but the major absorption lines are saturated , increasing the intrinsic column makes low - abundance ions appear unexpectedly prominent ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "if the relative elemental abundances in the ionized outflows in rxj0513  really are factors of several above solar values , this may imply that the outflows contain the products of hot cno burning . as stated above",
    ", it would be difficult to get an estimate of the oxygen abundance from this very soft spectrum due to lack of continuum in the relevant spectral region .",
    "however , at least some of our very rough estimates of the relative abundances of c and n do seem to be in line with the prediction ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that carbon should be highly depleted with respect to nitrogen in the atmosphere of a supersoft source .",
    "the prediction that the he / h abundance ratio should be enhanced in winds or outflows from white dwarfs is not possible to test with this dataset since no spectral features from these two elements are present in the rgs wavelength range , and in any case , they are fully stripped at the ionization levels implied by the observed transitions .    comparing the models with the observed spectrum in figure  [ rgs_spec ] ,",
    "it is clear that a simple photoionized absorption model is not an adequate representation of the data ; this is unsurprising since the assumption of absorption from the ground state would not be valid in a high density medium such as a white dwarf atmosphere .",
    "it is also very likely that atomic data are missing or perhaps inaccurate in the current model for various features in the spectrum ; identification of ionic species is further complicated by the likelihood that the observed features consist of complicated blends of many different transitions .",
    "two of the greatest discrepancies are in the ranges @xmath21   and @xmath22   which correspond to the positions of the c vi and c v absorption edges respectively .    approximating the underlying continuum as a blackbody spectrum is probably still too simplistic ; the continuum and intrinsic absorption will need to be modelled self - consistently in order to reach a more accurate understanding of both .",
    "@xcite have shown that a white dwarf atmosphere model is a good representation of the soft x - ray spectrum of the supersoft source cal 83 , although they found no evidence for a high - speed outflow in that source . a white dwarf atmosphere model with the addition of winds and outflows",
    "may indeed be required to reproduce the rgs spectra of rxj0513 .",
    "nevertheless , the present model demonstrates clearly that much of the soft x - ray spectral complexity of rxj0513  is consistent with the presence of highly ionized outflowing gas , and detailed modelling is currently underway ( blustin et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "it is interesting to ask whether the ionized absorber model can provide any insights into the nature of the spectral evolution observed in the soft x - ray band as rxj0513  comes out of its optical low state .",
    "further work will be required to provide a more certain answer to this , although preliminary investigations indicate that much of the variation seen in the rgs spectra can be explained by changing absorption columns , with the highest columns in the last two spectra .",
    "the ionization levels , range of outflow velocities and elemental abundances appear to be broadly similar throughout the series of observations .",
    "the white dwarf photosphere contraction model proposed by s96 is based on the prediction that the rise in the x - rays occurs after the drop in optical luminosity . from the vdh92 model , during the optical bright state the accretion rate is very high ( @xmath23 yr@xmath1 ) . under these conditions ,",
    "the white dwarf is slightly inflated , and a large majority of the shell luminosity is likely emitted in the uv .",
    "as the accretion rate drops , leading to a reduction in the optical flux , the photosphere contracts slightly ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , this raises the effective temperature and hence produces an increase in the x - ray luminosity .",
    "we do not have x - ray observations before the drop , however , previous observations have shown that x - rays are not detected when the source is in its optical high state .",
    "our observations confirm that while rxj0513  is in its optical low state we see the source in x - rays .",
    "the behaviour of the uv and optical intensity is roughly correlated in the optical low state .",
    "however , the uv flux starts to rise before the optical luminosity increases .",
    "we find that as the optical low state progresses the x - ray flux decreases , this is anti - correlated with the optical and uv .",
    "this implies that as the x - ray outburst is evolving the peak of the emission has moved into the uv , confirming the prediction of the contraction model .",
    "although our blackbody fits to the pn spectra are poor , the values implied by the fits are indicative of the global evolution of the x - ray emission .",
    "we find that the temperature and luminosity decrease during the optical low state .",
    "the radius determined from the fits decreases during the first observations . as the optical ( and uv ) intensity recover the radius increases . in the context of the contraction model ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the enhanced x - ray flux will irradiate the companion star and , either by inflating material above the secondary s photosphere and causing it to be transferred ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or by heating the magnetic spot region ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , will cause the mass transfer rate to increase again .",
    "this coincides with the white dwarf photosphere re - inflating , hence the radius gets larger , and the x - ray flux decreases again .",
    "therefore , as rxj0513   returns to its optical high state the source is once again not observable in x - rays .",
    "comparing the temperature and luminosity determined by the blackbody fits with the white dwarf tracks in the hertzsprung - russel diagram of iben ( 1982 ; figure 2 ) one finds agreement with a massive ( @xmath24 ) white dwarf which is somewhat expanded . for a @xmath25 white dwarf",
    "the radius at the stability line is @xmath26 cm .",
    "the radius inferred from the pn spectral fits implies a radius expansion by a factor of 3.9 .",
    "we note that @xcite derive a larger radius using their model , a factor of @xmath27 larger than the value we determine from our fits .",
    "our spectral fits to the pn data indicate that a more complicated model is needed to describe the x - ray emission",
    ". the higher spectral resolution data from the rgs reveal the existence of highly ionized gas outflowing along our line of sight at speeds of up to 3000 km s@xmath1 , with multiple velocity components that evolve over time .",
    "the optical depth of the ionized absorption appears to increase over the course of the eight rgs observations ; this is borne out by the lower - resolution pn spectra , in which deep absorption features become apparent in the final two spectra .",
    "the presence of this absorption partly explains why the blackbody fits are so poor .",
    "there are a variety of possible causes for the increase in optical depth of the intrinsic absorption .",
    "we could be viewing the system close to pole - on ( i.e. low inclination ) through the ( presumably ) bipolar outflow , and the intrinsic covering factor of the outflow is changing .",
    "possible explanations for this include the effects of a magnetic cycle of the optical star ( c.f .",
    "cal83 and vy scl stars , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* respectively ) , the expansion of the white dwarf or the system precessing with respect to our line of sight @xcite .",
    "we note that @xcite found a 83.2 d long period in the optical high - state macho data of rxj0513  which they attribute to accretion disk precession .",
    "such a period would be shorter than the optical high / low state cycle length .    alternatively , it might not be the bipolar outflow we are seeing , but actually the process of expansion of the white dwarf surface itself , as highly ionized nova by - products stream out from the white dwarf surface and gradually build into an optically - thick inflated surface , confined by the gravity of the white dwarf . the increase in optical / uv radiation would then occur as the ` intrinsic ' x - rays are down - scattered in the increasingly optically thick outer inflated layer of the white dwarf .",
    "the apparently anomalous abundances of sulphur , argon and nitrogen in the ionized outflow may indeed imply , if this is not just a covering factor effect due to line saturation @xcite , that the gas originated in the nova nucleosynthesis .",
    "the abundances may be modified in the atmosphere of the steady nuclear burning white dwarf via hot cno burning ( c.f .",
    "cno abundances for cal83 using nlte model atmospheres , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . from the nova evolution model calculations of @xcite",
    ", it follows that a massive white dwarf accreting at a high rate of @xmath28 yr@xmath1 has a recurrence time which can be as short as the high / low state cycle length of @xmath3 d of rxj0513 .",
    "the fact that the observed rgs spectra deviate from the blackbody approximation at @xmath29   may be due to effects of carbon transitions in this range due to a white dwarf atmosphere .",
    "a white dwarf atmosphere with an effective temperature as deduced from the blackbody fits to the pn data shows that with increasing gravity ( white dwarf mass ) above the c vi edge ( 0.49 kev ) the atmospheric density increases .",
    "this shifts the ionization equilibrium toward a lower degree of ionization , causing the emission edges to turn to absorption @xcite . for the same gravity",
    "the energy of the c absorption ( edge ) shifts to lower energies due to a change of the ionization state of c. thus the c v  vi absorption due to the white dwarf stellar atmosphere may be at least partly responsible for the disagreement found from the blackbody approximation ( see * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the existence of an ionized absorber in the x - ray spectrum of rxj0513   seems plausible as the absorption lines found in the rgs spectrum of the fifth ( and other ) observations of the source require a shift due to a velocity up to 2800 km s@xmath1 which is consistent with the escape velocity of a massive white dwarf .",
    "such absorption lines ( but usually with lower line - of - sight outflow velocities ) are commonly found in the soft x - ray spectra of agn ; these were first discovered in the _ chandra _ letgs spectrum of the seyfert 1 galaxy ngc 5548 @xcite and have since been observed in a range of other sources ( see  e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the soft x - ray absorption lines in the spectra of these agn originate in a low - density photoionized medium . in rxj0513",
    ", however , the existence of absorption structures which can not be explained by a photoionized absorber model ( especially those between @xmath29  ) indicates that the absorption takes place in a very different medium , probably at a much higher density",
    ". this would be consistent with an origin in a white dwarf atmosphere .",
    "the spectral model we constructed for the fifth rgs spectrum in the series does , however , reproduce many spectral features due to the ionized outflow in rxj0513 ; in this model , the log ionization parameter @xmath30 of the outflowing gas is in the range of 2.4 to 2.6 .",
    "the ionization structure for such an ionization parameter would be consistent with that of the outflowing version of model 8 in @xcite , which models gas photoionized by a blackbody emitter .",
    "however , it remains difficult to obtain consistency between the other parameters inferred by the spectral fits to the rgs and epic - pn spectra , the hydrogen absorbing column density of the ionized gas , the bolometric luminosity of the source and the blackbody radius of the source .",
    "if we write the ionization parameter as @xmath31 where @xmath32 , then we obtain with @xmath33 erg s@xmath1 , @xmath34 @xmath12 and log @xmath35 a value for @xmath36 cm , which is unreasonably large for rxj0513  ( the size of the radius inferred for the white dwarf in rxj0513  is @xmath37 cm ) .",
    "the discrepancy could be due to the real hydrogen column density being much higher than it is in our model .",
    "we estimated our model absorbing columns assuming that carbon is at its solar abundance in the absorber .",
    "if carbon is less abundant than this the column density could be underestimated .",
    "the abundance of carbon in the lmc is only a factor @xmath38 less than the solar abundance which would not have a large effect on the column density .",
    "the sed used to calculate the spex _ xabs _ absorber model is harder than the apparent underlying continuum of this source , and so the ionization balance will not be exactly the same as that of model 8 in @xcite , and the inferred ionization level will also be affected if the density is indeed far higher than expected in the agn - type photoionized medium that the _ xabs _ model assumes ( see above ) .",
    "in addition , the outflowing gas may be ionized by just a fraction of the radiation from the nuclear burning white dwarf if it is still close to the white dwarf atmosphere .",
    "we can estimate the mass outflow rate assuming the accretion is slightly super - eddington .",
    "the eddington luminosity is @xmath39 @xmath40 erg s@xmath1 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "as @xmath41 ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we determine with @xmath42 , @xmath43 erg s@xmath1 , and @xmath44 km s@xmath1 , @xmath45 yr@xmath1 .",
    "this value for the mass outflow rate is consistent with the wind mass loss rate estimated by @xcite for rxj0513 .",
    "we can also directly compare the physical parameters inferred from the observational data of the low - state egress of rxj0513  with the parameters predicted by the model of @xcite , for the high / low state transitions of rxj0513 .",
    "the evolution of the blackbody temperature inferred from the epic - pn data follows roughly the evolution of the temperature as inferred by @xcite , although the temperatures and the radii inferred from the observations are about 25% higher and a factor of 2 smaller , respectively .",
    "one prediction of the @xcite model are winds from the white dwarf with a wind mass - loss rate of @xmath46 yr@xmath1 during this part of the lightcurve .",
    "we can estimate the optical depth of such a highly ionized wind due to thomson scattering opacity assuming an outflow velocity of 3000 km s@xmath1 and a radius of @xmath47 cm . for a wind mass - loss rate of @xmath48 yr@xmath1",
    "we calculate an optical depth of 1 which is sufficient to obscure the soft x - ray source during the low - state egress .",
    "we have presented a series of eight _ xmm - newton _",
    "epic - pn and rgs observations during the late phase ( onset of egress ) of an optical low - state of the supersoft x - ray source rxj0513 . simultaneous _",
    "xmm - newton _  om and long - term ground based optical monitoring are also reported .",
    "we have derived the evolution of the fluxes in the observed bands and the evolution of the x - ray spectral parameters from a blackbody spectral fit to the epic - pn data .",
    "we find that the temperature and luminosity decrease , and an indication of an increase in the radius of the blackbody emitter with time . during the late phase of the optical low - state we find broad spectral dips in the epic - pn spectra just below 0.5 kev .",
    "the rgs spectra show deep absorption features ( e.g. c vi , ar xiii / xiv , s xiv ) which deepen with time and in addition some weak emission lines .",
    "we model the rgs spectra with a compton - scattered 70 ev blackbody with galactic neutral absorption and additional intrinsic ionized absorption due to outflowing gas using a photoionized absorption model .",
    "our spectral model for the fifth rgs spectrum , which was taken in the deepest part of the optical low state , requires velocities of the outflowing gas of 800 , 1800 , and 2800 km s@xmath1 , ionization parameters log @xmath30 of 2.4 to 2.6 , and hydrogen columns of at least @xmath49 to @xmath50 @xmath12 .",
    "we find that the spectral model lies significantly above the observed spectrum in the @xmath51   and @xmath21   regime which is likely to be due to effects related to the white dwarf atmosphere .",
    "this work is based on observations obtained with _ xmm - newton _ , an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states and nasa .",
    "the authors wish to thank retha pretorius and the smarts consortium observers .",
    "the authors also wish to thank the fred jansen and norbert schartel and the xmm - newton control centre staff for executing out too observations .",
    "kem would like to thank gavin ramsay for advice on the data analysis .",
    "ajb would like to thank ehud behar and jelle kaastra for useful advice on atomic data and modelling .",
    "kem and ajb acknowledge the support of the uk particle physics and astronomy research council ( pparc ) .",
    "part of this work was supported by nasa grant nng04eg32i .",
    "we thank the referee for helpful and constructive comments .",
    "99 alcock c. , et al .",
    ", 1995 , phys .",
    "lett . , 74 , 2867 alcock c. , et al . , 1997 , mnras , 286 , 483 anders e. , grevesse n. , 1989 , geochimica et cosmochimica acta , 53 , 197 arav n. , korista k. t. , de kool m. , 2002 , apj , 566 , 699 blackburn j. k. , 1995 , in asp conf .",
    "77 , astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , ed .",
    "r. a. shaw , h. e. payne , and j. j. e. hayes ( san francisco : asp ) , 367 blustin a. j. , page m. j. , fuerst s. v. , branduardi - raymont g. , ashton , c. e. , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 111 callanan p. j. , machin g. , naylor t. , charles p. a. , 1989 , mnras , 241 , 37 cowley a. p. , schmidtke p. c. , hutchings j. b. , crampton d. , mcgrath t. k. , 1993 , apj , 418 , l63 cowley a. p. , schmidtke p. c. , crampton d. , hutchings j. b. , 1996 , in : eds van den heuvel e. p. j. , van paradijs j. , proc .",
    "iau symp . 165 : compact stars in binaries , kluwer , dordrecht , p. 439",
    "cowley a. p. , schmidtke p. c. , crampton d. , hutchings j. b. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 2233 den herder j. w. , et al . , 2001 , a&a , 365 , l7 gaensicke b. t. , van teeseling a. , beuermann k. , de martino d. , 1998 , a&a , 333 , 163 greiner j. , 1996 , in : ed greiner j. , lecture notes in physics 472 : supersoft x - ray sources , springer - verlag , p. 299",
    "grimm h. -j . , gilfanov m. , sunyaev r. , 2002 , a&a , 391 , 923 hachisu i. , kato m. , 2003a , apj , 590 , 445 hachisu i. , kato m. , 2003b , apj , 588 , 1003 hartmann h. w. , heise j. , 1996 , in supersoft x - ray sources , lnp 472 , ed .",
    "j. greiner , p. 25",
    "hartmann h. w. , heise j. , 1997 , a&a , 322 , 591 honeycutt r. k. , kafka s. , 2004 , aj , 128 , 1279 hutchings j. b. , winter k. , cowley a. p. , schmidtke p. c. , crampton d. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 2833 iben i. , 1982 , apj , 259 , 244 kaastra j. s. , mewe r. , liedahl d. a. , komossa s. , brinkman a. c. , 2000 , a&a , 354 , 83 kaastra j. s. , mewe r. , raassen a. j. j. , 2002 , in esa sp-488 , new visions of the x - ray universe in the xmm - newton and chandra era , ed .",
    "f. jansen , electronic proceedings kallman t. r. , mccray r. , 1982 , apjs , 50 , 263 kato m. , 1985 , pasj , 37 , 19 king a. r. , pounds k. a. , 2003 , mnras , 345 , 657 kovetz a. , prialnik d. , 1994 , apj , 424 , 319 lanz t. , telis g. a. , audard m. , paerels f. , rasmussen a. p. , hubeny i. , 2005 , apj , 619 , 517 livio m. , 1996 , in : ed greiner j. , lecture notes in physics 472 : supersoft x - ray sources , springer - verlag , p. 183",
    "long k. s. , helfand d. j. , grabelsky d. a. , 1981 , apj , 248 , 925 mason k. o. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , a&a , 365 , l36 nomoto k. , 1982 , apj , 253 , 798 gelman . h. , orio m. , krautter j. , starrfield s. , 1993 , nature , 361 , 331 paerels f. , rasmussen a. p. , hartmann h. w. , heise j. , brinkman a. c. , de vries c. p. , den herder j. w. , 2001 , a&a , 365 , 308 paczyski b. , 1971 , araa , 9 , 183 page m. j. , davis s. w. , salvi n. j. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 1241 pakull m. w. , et al . , 1993 , a&a , 278 , l39 parker e. n. , 1979 , cosmical magnetic fields ( oxford : clarendon ) prialnik d. , kovetz a. , 1995 , apj , 445 , 789 rauch t. , werner k. , orio m. , 2005 , proceedings itamp workshop : x - ray diagnostics for astrophysical plasmas : theory , experiment , and observation . 2004 november 15 - 17 cambridge , usa , ( astro - ph/0501012 ) reinsch k. , van teeseling a. , king a. r. , beuermann k. , 2000 , a&a , 354 , 37 ritter h. , 1988 , a&a , 202 , 93 schaeidt s. , hasinger g. , trmper j. , 1993 , a&a , 270 , l9 smale a. p. , et al . , 1988 , mnras , 233 , 51 southwell k. , livio m. , charles p. a. , odonoghue d. , sutherland w. j. , 1996 , apj , 470 , 1065 southwell k. a. , livio m. , pringle j. e. , 1997 , apj , 478 , 29 strder l. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , a&a , 365 , l18 tarter c. b. , tucker w. h. , salpeter e. e. , 1969 , apj , 156 , 943 trmper j. e. , 1992 , in : eds van den heuvel e. p. j. , rappaport s. , asi ser .",
    "377 : x - ray binaries and recycled pulsars , kluwer , dordrecht , p. 19",
    "turner m. j. l. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , a&a , 365 , l27 van den heuvel e. p. j. , bhattacharya d. , nomoto k. , rappaport s. a. , 1992 , a&a , 262 , 97 van paradijs j. , mcclintock j. e. , 1995 , in : eds lewin w. h. g. , van den heuvel e. p. j. , x - ray binaries , cambridge univ .",
    "press , cambridge , p. 58"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the highly luminous ( @xmath0 erg s@xmath1 ) supersoft x - ray sources ( sss ) are believed to be eddington limited accreting white dwarfs undergoing surface hydrogen burning . </S>",
    "<S> the current paradigm for sss involves thermally unstable mass transfer from a @xmath2 companion . </S>",
    "<S> however this model has never been directly confirmed and yet is crucial for the evolution of cataclysmic variables in general , and for the establishment of sss as progenitors of type ia supernovae in particular . </S>",
    "<S> the key sss is rx j0513.9 - 6951 which has recurrent x - ray outbursts </S>",
    "<S> every @xmath3 d ( lasting for @xmath4 d ) during which the optical declines by 1 mag . we present the first xmm - newton observations of rx j0513.9 - 6951 through one of its optical low states . </S>",
    "<S> our results show that as the optical low state progresses the temperature and the x - ray luminosity decrease , behaviour that is anti - correlated with the optical and uv emission . we find that as the optical ( and uv ) intensity recover the radius implied by the spectral fits increases . </S>",
    "<S> the high resolution spectra show evidence of deep absorption features which vary during the optical low state . </S>",
    "<S> our results are consistent with the predictions of the white dwarf photospheric contraction model proposed by @xcite .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    binaries : close  stars : individual : rx j0513.9 - 6951  magellanic clouds  x - rays : stars . </S>"
  ]
}