{
  "article_text": [
    "it has long been known that the major axis of central cluster galaxies tends to be aligned with the major axis of the cluster galaxy distribution and to point towards similar structures on scales of typically a few tens of mpc ( e.g. , @xcite ; trevese , cirimele & flin 1992 ; fuller , west & bridges 1999 , @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "the most likely mechanism for the origin of this ` alignment effect ' invokes _ collimated infall _ of galaxies along the filaments that make up the large scale structure in which clusters are embedded and from which clusters grow @xcite , suggesting a connection between the growth of the clusters and the formation of their massive dominant galaxies ( e.g. , @xcite ) .    it is unclear whether fainter cluster galaxies should show the alignments that are expected ( and observed ) for the first - ranked members .",
    "clusters and galaxies are believed to form through a process of hierarchical accretion . in these models ,",
    "predictions for isotropy ( or deviations ) of galaxy position angles are not well defined ( west , villumsen & dekel 1991 ) but the consensus seems to be that any primordial alignments would be quickly erased by dynamical interactions @xcite .",
    "conversely , it is expected that groups and clusters show preferential alignments in the direction of the last major accretion episode @xcite .",
    "searches for alignments among the fainter cluster galaxies have generally returned ambiguous results , with some positive detections @xcite as well as null results ( @xcite ; aryal , kandel & sauer 2006 ) .",
    "however , it is possible that the presence of anisotropy in galaxy position angles can only be detected in less evolved clusters @xcite , while it is also conceivable that only near neighbor galaxies are aligned with each other because they exert reciprocal tidal torques @xcite , or that radial alignments are induced by the cluster tidal field @xcite .    with this in mind , we re - examine the issue of isotropy in galaxy position angles in the coma cluster .",
    "we use a unique multicolor optical - infrared ccd mosaic of the inner 750 @xmath0 mpc of this cluster and , within this region , a complete ( magnitude - limited to @xmath1 ) sample of 111 spectroscopic members plus 77 additional fainter members .",
    "most previous work has relied on photographic plates and identified cluster members statistically or via the red sequence .",
    "the results we present in the following are most consistent with an isotropic distribution for galaxy position angles , other than for the two brighter members .",
    "we then explore the implications of these findings for the formation of clusters and their members , particularly as regards the brighter central cluster galaxies .",
    "we use the @xmath2 images of the core of the coma cluster and the catalog published by @xcite , which includes photometry and a compilation of spectroscopy from the literature .",
    "the spectroscopic sample of coma galaxies is complete to @xmath3 and less so for fainter magnitudes .    galaxy major axis position angles and ellipticities obtained independently from @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 images were compared and found to be similar ; consequently only the @xmath5-band images were used for further analysis .",
    "we verified the sextractor position angles by isophotal modelling of the galaxies using iraf ellipse and also by comparing with the isophotal position angles from the sdss @xcite .",
    "the values produced by sextractor are in good agreement with the measurements from iraf ellipse and the sdss position angles , except for a few objects with small ellipticities .",
    "we tested the observed distribution of position angles against a uniform distribution using the kuiper test .",
    "figure 1 shows the results of this comparison : we find no significant deviation from isotropy .",
    "this holds if we limit our sample to galaxies with larger ellipticity or to the brighter members ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "subsamples of galaxies with ellipticities @xmath7 and @xmath8 were examined , containing 128 , 94 and 61 galaxies , respectively , but in all cases no preferred orientations were found . likewise culling the sample of galaxies to those brighter than @xmath9 and @xmath10 ( 10 , 33 and 58 galaxies , respectively ) also yielded a null detection of position angle anisotropies .",
    "+   +    while the above constitutes strong evidence that there are no large - scale galaxy alignments ( other than for the brightest cluster galaxies ) , we now consider whether there are alignments between nearest neighbors ( in projection ) due to reciprocal tidal torques @xcite , or due to the presence of substructure whose members are aligned with each other @xcite .",
    "the result of this test is shown in figure 2 , where we find no significant deviation from isotropy .",
    "neither can we confirm the detection of radial galaxy alignments by @xcite .",
    "the above results are perhaps understandable if we consider that there is no reason to assume that cluster members that are close in projection are actually physically close , because clusters have intrinsic depth and an extended radial velocity distribution .",
    "therefore , any true alignment signal between neighbors will be diluted by the overwhelming number of galaxy ` asterisms ' .",
    "the results of the analysis presented above are consistent with random orientations of the position angles of coma galaxies , with the possible exception of the two brightest cluster members , ngc 4889 and ngc 4874 , whose major axis position angles are quite similar to that of the cluster s galaxy and x - ray gas distributions @xcite .",
    "the line connecting the two galaxies is also aligned with the galaxy and x - ray gas distributions , as also found by @xcite .",
    "while this is consistent with the null results found for some clusters , there are other objects where significant alignments are detected .",
    "possibly the clearest case is abell 521 @xcite , which shows detectable alignments out to 5 @xmath0 mpc .",
    "this cluster is known to be dynamically young and to show considerable substructure @xcite .",
    "coma , on the other hand , is not a fully relaxed cluster and shows substructure in the x - ray gas and in the position - velocity distribution of its members ( e.g. , @xcite ) but it is clearly ( comparatively ) more evolved than either a521 or virgo , where also there is evidence of a non - isotropic distribution of galaxy alignments @xcite . as suggested by @xcite",
    ", the lack of alignments in coma may be due to its more advanced state of dynamical evolution with respect to other clusters ( see , e.g , @xcite ) .    in order to test this",
    ", we considered galaxy alignments in the filaments that connect coma to the large scale structure towards a1367 and a2197/a2199 ( figure 3 ) .",
    "we retrieved these data from the sdss and tested for position angle anisotropy .",
    "all galaxies with available data were used , irrespective of their magnitudes .",
    "because complete sdss spectroscopy is not available for this region , redshifts were taken from the nasa extragalactic database and the sample of galaxies restricted to those with velocities in the range 4000 - 10,000 km / s expected for coma and its environs .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     here too , however , we find no evidence for any significant deviations from isotropy for filament galaxies ( figure 4 ) .",
    "this suggests either that these galaxies formed without any preferred orientations or that any alignments which might have existed are quickly erased even in low density regions . in this context , it is not surprising that alignments can be detected more clearly in a521 and virgo , two clusters that appear to be have recently formed from the coalescence of numerous small groups .",
    "the main inference we can draw from this study is that the first - ranked cluster galaxies are special in yet one more way . unlike all other cluster galaxies they appear to have undergone a peculiar formation mechanism , related to collimated infall and the growth of the cluster from the surrounding large scale structure , and resulting in the observed alignment effects",
    "all other galaxies appear to have had a more random merger history .",
    "while fainter galaxies may have been accreted to the cluster at later epochs , thus explaining the lack of alignments , the brightest cluster member may have been the kernel around which clusters originally formed .",
    "l. torlina was supported by an australian gemini undergraduate summer studentship , funded by the australian research council .",
    "she thanks gemini observatory for its hospitality during her stay in chile .",
    "we thank the referee , manolis plionis , for his very quick review of this paper and for helpful comments that improved its clarity .",
    "adami , c. , biviano , a. , durret , f. , mazure , a. 2005 , , 443 , 17 aryal , b. & saurer , w. 2005 , , 360 , 125 aryal , b. & saurer , w. 2006 , , 366 , 438 aryal , b. , kandel , s. m. & saurer , w. 2006 , , 458 , 357 bertin , e. & arnouts , s. 1996 , , 117 , 393 binggeli , b. 1982 , , 107 , 338 coutts , a. 1996 , , 278 , 87 dubinski , j. 1998 , , 502 , 141 eisenhardt , p. r. , de propris , r. , gonzales , a. , stanford , s. a. , wang , m. c. , dickinson , m. e. 2007 , , 169 , in press faltenbacher , a. , allgood , b. , gottlber , s. , yepes , g. , hoffman , y. 2005 , , 362 , 1099 ferrari , c. , arnaud , m. , ettori , s. , maurogordato , s. , rho , j. 2006 , , 446 , 417 fuller , t. m. , west , m. j. & bridges , t. j. 1999 , , 519 , 22 kitzbichler , m. g. & saurer , w. 2003 , , 590 , l9 pereira , m. j. & kuhn , j. r. 2005 , , 627 , l21 plionis , m. & basilakos , s. 2002 , , 329 , l47 plionis , m. , benoist , c. , maurogordato , s. , ferrari , c. , basilakos , s. 2003 , , 594 , 144 stoughton , c. et al . 2002 , , 123 , 485 strazzullo , v. , paolillo , m. , longo , g. , puddu , e. , djorgovski , s. g. , de carvalho , r. r. , gal , r. r. 2005 , , 359 , 191 trevese , d. , cirimele , g. & flin , p. 1992",
    ", , 104 , 935 west , m. j. 1989 , , 344 , 535 west , m. j. , villumsen , j. v. & dekel , a. 1991 , , 369 , 287 west , m. j. 1994 , , 268 , 79 west , m. j. 1998 , in _ uncovering coma berenices : a new look at an old cluster _ , ed .",
    "a. mazure , f. combes , f. durret , d. gerbal ( singapore : world scientific ) , p. 36",
    "west , m. j. & blakeslee , j. p. 2000 , , 543",
    ", l27 york , d. g. et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have examined the orientations of early - type galaxies in the coma cluster to see whether the well - established tendency for brightest cluster galaxies to share the same major axis orientation as their host cluster also extends to the rest of the galaxy population . </S>",
    "<S> we find no evidence of any preferential orientations of galaxies within coma or its surroundings . </S>",
    "<S> the implications of this result for theories of the formation of clusters and galaxies ( particularly the first - ranked members ) are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}