{
  "article_text": [
    "high balmer line spectroscopic observations of da stars from the mccook & sion catalog were secured using the steward observatory 2.3-m telescope equipped with the boller & chivens spectrograph .",
    "objects were selected on the basis of ( 1 ) their temperature index lying between 3 and 7 , ( 2 ) having an apparent visual magnitude brighter than 17 and ( 3 ) being situated in the northern hemisphere ( i.e. declination greater than @xmath230 degrees ) .",
    "eventually , we are planning to secure similar observations for all bright ( @xmath3 17 ) white dwarfs of all spectral types in the catalog . in our attempt to provide a spectroscopic confirmation of all da stars in the mccook & sion catalog",
    ", we have found 22 stars classified da in the mccook & sion catalog that are clearly lower gravity objects .",
    "these represent @xmath4 of the stars which we have observed to date .",
    "all da spectra were fitted with the spectroscopic method described in bergeron et al .",
    "( 1992 ) to determine @xmath0 and @xmath5 .",
    "stellar masses are then derived using the evolutionary models of wood ( 1995 ) with thick hydrogen layers . in figure 1",
    "we show the resulting mass distribution as a function of effective temperature for a total of 770 stars surveyed thus far .",
    "also superposed are isochrones based on the evolutionary models of wood ( 1995 ) and fontaine et al .",
    "( 2001 ) at different ages along the white dwarf cooling sequence ( ages are indicated in gyr ) .",
    "the solid lines correspond to the white dwarf cooling times only , while the dotted lines include the main sequence lifetime .",
    "the most striking feature here is the upturn of the sequence at @xmath6@xmath74.1 , or @xmath0@xmath713,000 k. above this temperature , the sequence shows a distribution consistent with an average mass near 0.6 @xmath8 .",
    "since there is no reason , a priori , for white dwarf masses to increase as they cool below 13,000 k , our results may indicate some inadequate treatment of the physics of white dwarf atmospheres ( convection , line broadening , opacities , etc . ) .",
    "alternatively , our basic physical assumptions may be incorrect , such as the atmospheric composition , which is assumed to be of pure hydrogen .",
    "indeed , it is known that the presence of spectroscopically invisible helium in cool da stars may affect the determinations of @xmath1 ( see boudreault & bergeron , these proceedings ) .",
    "finally , we see that the majority of stars have inferred ages smaller than 10 gyr based on the isochrones that include main sequence lifetimes .",
    "da stars below @xmath90.47 @xmath8 must have followed a different evolutionary path , most likely through binary star evolution .",
    "the mean mass of our sample turns out to be fairly high at 0.620 @xmath10 0.140 @xmath8 .",
    "however , when the sample is divided into two groups , above and below 13,000 k , the mean mass of the hot component decreases to a value of 0.596 @xmath10 0.131 @xmath8 , more consistent with the results of previous spectroscopic analyses .",
    "the cool component has a mean of 0.693 @xmath10 0.143 @xmath8 , significantly larger than that of hotter stars .",
    "this peculiar yet interesting result is currently being investigated by our group .",
    "figure 2 shows an enlargement of the area in the @xmath0-@xmath5 plane that contains the zz ceti instability strip .",
    "the filled circles represent the 36 zz ceti stars from bergeron et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , while the open circles correspond to all da stars that have been confirmed as photometrically constant by various investigators .",
    "finally , the triangles represent all the remaining da stars in our sample that have not been investigated for photometric variability , to our knowledge .    if we consider the photometric samples only ( open and filled circles ) , our result is clearly consistent with the zz ceti instability strip being pure , with all constant stars falling outside the empirical strip , shown as dotted lines in figure 2 .",
    "this is clearly at odds with the recent results obtained by mukadam et al .",
    "( 2004 ) who claim , based on the analysis of the da stars in the sdss , that the zz ceti instability strip contains a significant fraction of non - variable stars .",
    "we believe that high signal - to - noise ( s / n @xmath11 50 ) spectroscopic observations are required to achieve the results shown here , a quality that is not necessarily achieved in the sdss data .    finally , there are 2 program stars that fall well inside the instability strip .",
    "one of these two , he 1429@xmath20343 , has already been confirmed as a new zz ceti pulsator ( see silvotti et al . , these proceedings ) . with regards to the remaining candidate , high - speed photometric observations are planned in order to ascertain its variability .",
    "during the course of large surveys , it is often the case that interesting objects are uncovered .",
    "this is the case with gd 362 , previously classified as a subdwarf , or possibly as having a composite spectrum .",
    "gd 362 is in fact a cool daz star , as displayed in figure 3 .",
    "this is quite an unusual object showing a number of metallic lines in its spectrum .",
    "also shown is our best fit to the data with the atmospheric parameters indicated in the figure .",
    "the major spectral metallic features are indicated as well .",
    "a more detailed analysis of this object will be presented elsewhere .",
    "bergeron , p. , saffer , r. a. , & liebert j. 1992 , , 394 , 228 bergeron , p. , fontaine , g. , billres , m. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 600 , 404 fontaine , g. , brassard , p. , & bergeron ,",
    ", , 113 , 409 mukadam a. s. , winget , d. e. , von hippel , t. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 612 , 1052 wood , m. a. , 1995 , in white dwarfs , proc . of the 9@xmath12 european workshop on white dwarfs , eds .",
    "d. koester & k. werner ( berlin : springer ) , 41"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the sloan digital sky survey has already doubled the number of spectroscopically identified white dwarfs . however , there remains a wealth of white dwarfs in the mccook & sion catalog for which little or nothing is known . </S>",
    "<S> we have thus undertaken a spectroscopic survey of all northern hemisphere da white dwarfs from this catalog in order to ( 1 ) confirm the spectroscopic classification , and ( 2 ) provide measurements of @xmath0 and @xmath1 for each star . as part of this project </S>",
    "<S> , we have also secured spectroscopic data for all da stars with high - speed photometric measurements available , in order to study the purity of the zz ceti instability strip , which has recently been challenged , once again . </S>"
  ]
}