{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the most important uses of the cobe observations of large - angle cosmic microwave background anisotropies ( smoot et al .  1992 ; bennett et al .",
    "1996 ) is to normalize the power spectrum of matter fluctuations in the universe .",
    "accordingly , several papers have been written quoting fitting functions for this normalization as a function of various cosmological parameters . because cobe only probes scales larger than the horizon at last scattering , it is insensitive to parameters governing physical processes within the horizon , such as the hubble parameter @xmath0 and the baryon density @xmath1",
    ". it does however depend on the matter density @xmath2 , the cosmological constant density @xmath3 , the spectral index ( tilt ) of density perturbations @xmath4 and the presence of gravitational waves ( usually parametrized by a quantity @xmath5 ) .",
    "existing literature has provided fitting functions for spatially - flat models and open models including tilt ( bunn & white 1997 ) , and for spatially - flat models with both tilt and gravitational waves ( bunn , liddle & white 1996 ) .",
    "there is however one other parameter which can significantly alter the normalization , which is the optical depth @xmath6 for rescattering of microwave photons at lower redshift .",
    "the absence of absorption by neutral hydrogen in quasar spectra , the gunn  peterson effect ( gunn & peterson 1965 ; see also steidel & sargent 1987 ; webb 1992 ) , tells us that the universe must have reached a high state of ionization by the redshift of the most distant known quasars , around five .",
    "scattering from the created free electrons predominantly has the effect of damping out the primary anisotropies , and the requirement that the observed peak at @xmath7 is not destroyed sets an upper limit on the optical depth .",
    "griffiths , barbosa & liddle ( 1999 ) obtained a limit of around @xmath8 for the most plausible cosmological parameters ; including new cmb data from boomerang-98 and maxima-1 , plus other non - cmb constraints , can strengthen this somewhat ( tegmark , zaldarriaga & hamilton 2000 ) .",
    "in addition to the damping , the rescattering generates a modest amount of new anisotropy via the doppler effect .",
    "several mechanisms for reionization , which requires a source of ultra - violet photons , have been discussed , and are extensively reviewed by haiman & knox ( 1999 ) . in the two most popular models ,",
    "the sources are massive stars in the first generation of galaxies , or early generations of quasars .",
    "calculations are sufficiently uncertain as to give no clear guidance as to where within the currently allowed range reionization might have occurred . assuming spatial flatness and instantaneous full reionization at redshift @xmath9 , the optical depth is related to the redshift of reionization by ( e.g.  griffiths et al .",
    "1999 ) @xmath10 \\,,\\ ] ] where @xmath11 sample curves are shown in figure  [ tau_z ] .",
    "we should expect @xmath6 to lie anywhere between about 0.02 and 0.4 .",
    "+    we note that this does not include the contribution to the optical depth of the residual ionization left over after recombination , which for typical cosmological parameters is about 0.001 and which can contribute a further optical depth of a few percent between @xmath9 and @xmath12 ( seager , sasselov & scott 2000 ) .",
    "because the rescattering happens at low redshifts , it can affect the microwave anisotropies on much larger angular scales than can causal processes at last scattering .",
    "the normalization of the power spectrum from cobe is primarily from multipoles with @xmath13 , and because the normalization is so accurate , it turns out that reionization can lead to a significant effect .",
    "we shall concentrate on the fitting functions quoted by bunn & white ( 1997 ) and bunn et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , whose quoted error on the dispersion , @xmath14 , is 7 per cent statistical , with fit and other systematics bringing this up to 9 per cent .",
    "this is equivalent to a shift in the radiation angular power spectrum of just under 20 per cent .",
    "we consider only spatially - flat cosmologies , as significantly open models are now excluded ( jaffe et al .",
    "the cobe normalizations are readily obtained from the publically - available cmbfast ( seljak & zaldarriaga 1996 ) and camb programs ( lewis , challinor & lasenby 2000 ) .",
    "figure  2 shows a series of curves with varying optical depth , where the normalization of the matter power spectrum has been kept fixed , focusing on the region relevant to the cobe observations .",
    "the other cosmological parameters are those of the favoured low - density flat model with @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 and no gravitational waves . to a first approximation , normalizing to cobe will shift the curves to the same amplitude at @xmath19 .",
    "we use the power spectrum normalizations output from the code , which are computed by fitting a quadratic to the @xmath20 spectrum and implementing a fitting function from bunn & white ( 1997 ) .",
    "= 5.3 cm +    figure  2 shows two separate physical effects in operation . on the right - hand side of the plot",
    "we mainly observe the effect of reionization damping erasing the initial anisotropies , a process described in detail by hu & white ( 1997 ) ; there is also some regeneration of anisotropies on those scales from the doppler effect in scattering from the reionized electrons .",
    "bearing in mind that the cobe normalization is particularly sensitive to multipoles around @xmath21 , for low @xmath6 the damping is the dominant effect in altering the power spectrum normalization .",
    "a more interesting effect is the rise of the multipoles , including the lowest , as the optical depth is increased , an effect which reaches 10 per cent for @xmath22 at @xmath23 .",
    "the effect has a subtle origin .",
    "there are contributions to the anisotropies both from the original last - scattering surface and from the reionization scattering surface",
    ". between recombination and reionization large - scale perturbations ( i.e.  those with comoving wavenumbers much less than the hubble scale ) can not evolve , but smaller scale ones can .",
    "a given @xmath20 actually receives contributions from quite a wide range of comoving wavenumbers , so that the low multipoles exhibit some sensitivity to what is happening on smaller scales and this results in the increase in power .",
    "although the effect is not large , it is significant at the level of the cobe normalization , and once @xmath6 exceeds around 0.3 the rise in the radiation power spectrum from newly - generated anisotropies actually becomes more important than the effect of reionization damping .    in figure  3",
    ", we plot the change in the cobe normalization of the matter power spectrum as a function of @xmath6 for various choices of @xmath2 . the quantity @xmath14 , defined as in bunn et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and bunn & white ( 1997 ) , measures the dispersion of the matter distribution , and the cobe normalization of it has a statistical error of 7 per cent .",
    "the power spectrum normalization goes as @xmath24 .",
    "we see that the reionization has a significant effect on the normalization , corresponding to roughly a one - sigma shift for a wide range of optical depths . for low optical depths the reionization damping dominates and the normalization increases , reaching a maximum at @xmath25 .",
    "as @xmath6 increases further the reionization damping moves to smaller angular scales and becomes less significant at @xmath26 than the regenerated anisotropies , and the normalization begins to fall .    as seen in figure  3",
    ", there is a weak dependence on @xmath2 , and indeed there are similar dependences on the parameters @xmath0 and @xmath1 .",
    "the dependences arise because these parameters alter the reionization redshift , and hence characteristic angular size , corresponding to a given optical depth .",
    "the effect of varying these parameters is typically at the one or two percent level , hence much smaller than the effect of the optical depth .",
    "= 5.6 cm +    there is no point in trying to fit the dependence of the reionization correction on @xmath0 and @xmath1 , since published normalizations ignore the effect of these parameters in the case with no reionization as it is well within the statistical error from cosmic variance .",
    "equally , although quoted fitting functions do give a dependence on @xmath2 , the additional @xmath2 dependence of the reionization correction is at the same level ( one or two percent ) as those ignored effects , and so there is no incentive to try to include it either .",
    "therefore , to sufficient accuracy one can ignore the dependence of the normalization on parameters other than @xmath6 , and the correction to the normalization can then be expressed via a @xmath6-dependent fitting function .",
    "we chose to fit for @xmath27 as it lies roughly centrally amongst the models we studied and is close to the currently favoured value .",
    "a good fit is given by the form @xmath28 as shown in figure  3 , which is reliable up to @xmath6 of 0.5 .",
    "this correction can be applied to equation ( 29 ) in bunn & white ( 1997 ) and to equations ( 15 ) , ( a4 ) and ( a5 ) in bunn et al .",
    "( 1996 ) ; note that these fitting functions have quoted fit errors of up to 3 per cent though they are usually within 1 per cent . even allowing for possible variation of other parameters including @xmath2 ,",
    "the fit error for our correction is within 2 per cent which , given the error in the cobe normalization , should be more than adequate for the foreseeable future .",
    "we have quantified the effect of reionization on the cobe normalization of the matter power spectrum . for values of the optical depth in the centre of the currently - allowed region",
    ", reionization leads to a significant enhancement of the cobe - normalized matter power spectrum , which should be accounted for in attempts to constrain cosmological parameters by combining other data sets with the cobe normalization .",
    "[ the effect is of course automatically included in analyses which simultaneously fit cosmic microwave background data and other data , except that most such analyses have not so far included reionization , an exception being tegmark et al .",
    "( 2000 ) . ]",
    "we have provided a simple fitting function which allows this correction to be incorporated into published fitting functions .",
    "lmg was supported by pparc .",
    "we thank antony lewis and matias zaldarriaga for clarifying discrepancies between the camb and cmbfast codes , and matias zaldarriaga for providing a patch .",
    "we further thank matias zaldarriaga for important correspondence on the low @xmath29 behaviour in reionized models .",
    "bennett c. l. et al . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 464 , l1 bunn e. f. , liddle a. r. , white m. , 1996 , phys .",
    "d , 54 , 5917r bunn e. f. , white m. , 1997 , apj , 480 , 6 griffiths l. m. , barbosa d. , liddle a. r. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 854 gunn j. e. , peterson , b. a. , 1965 , apj , 142 , 1633 haiman z. , knox l. , 1999 , astro - ph/9902311 hu w. , white m. , 1997 , apj , 479 , 568 jaffe a. h. et al . , 2000 , astro - ph/0007333 lewis a. , challinor a. , lasenby a. , 2000 , apj , 538 , 473 seager s. , sasselov d. d. , scott d. , 2000 , apjsupp , 128 , 407 seljak u. , zaldarriaga m. , 1996 , apj , 469 , 437 smoot g. f. et al . , 1992 , apj , 396 , l1 steidel c. c. , sargent w. l. w. , 1987 , apj , 318 , l11 tegmark m. , zaldarriaga m. , hamilton a. j. s. , 2000 , astro - ph/0008167 webb j. k. , 1992 , mnras , 255,319"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we point out that the effect of reionization on the microwave anisotropy power spectrum is not necessarily negligible on the scales probed by cobe . </S>",
    "<S> it can lead to an upward shift of the cobe normalization by more than the one - sigma error quoted ignoring reionization . </S>",
    "<S> we provide a fitting function to incorporate reionization into the normalization of the matter power spectrum .    </S>",
    "<S> -0.5 in    epsf    cosmology : theory  cosmic microwave background </S>"
  ]
}