{
  "article_text": [
    "when performing astronomical observations one has to keep in mind that light from observed objects propagates through the universe which is a complicated and evolving system .",
    "although the evolution of the universe can be neglected on small scales , it can not be done so if distant objects , such as high  redshift galaxies , quasars or very remote supernovae are observed .",
    "additionally , on large scales the impact of the cosmic structures on light propagation must be considered . since in the newtonian mechanics matter",
    "does not affect light propagation , the general relativity must be employed .",
    "this paper shows that such problems of high  redshift astronomy can be solved by employing the quasispherical szekeres model ( szekeres 1975a ) .",
    "the quasispherical szekeres model is an exact solution of the einstein field equations , which represents a time ",
    "dependent mass dipole superposed on a monopole and therefore it is suitable for modelling double structures such as voids and adjourning galaxy superclusters .",
    "moreover , as the szekeres model is an exact solution of the einstein equations it enables tracing light and estimation of the impact of cosmic structures on light propagation .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows : sec . 2 presents the astronomical observations of the universe ; sec .",
    "3 presents the theoretical approach to these data ; sec .",
    "4 presents the szekeres model ; in sec .",
    "6 the evolution of a void and an adjourning cluster within the quasispherical szekeres model is studied ; the algorithm which was employed for these calculations is presented in sec . 5 ; sec .",
    "7 presents how the quasispherical szekeres model can be adopted to analysis of the astronomical observations .",
    "at the end of 1970s when galaxy redshift surveys started to collect the data , the large scale cosmic structures were discovered .",
    "it turned out that the universe is very inhomogeneous , and galaxies form structures like voids , clusters , and filaments .",
    "the density contrast within these structures varies from @xmath0 in voids ( hoyle & vogeley 2004 ) to @xmath1 equal to several tens in clusters ( bardelli et al .",
    "these structures are of diameters varying from several mpc up to several tens of mpc . however",
    ", if averaging is considered on large scales , the density varies from @xmath2 to @xmath3 ( kolat , dekel , & lahav 1995 ; hudson 1993 ) .",
    "1 presents the galaxies distribution in a slice 1600  km / s thick and 32000  km / s square . as one can see galaxies are distributed inhomogeneously .",
    "the galaxies presented in this pictures are up to redshifts @xmath4 .",
    "so when the redshift of observed objects is larger then unity ( like distant quasars , grb or high  redshift supernovae ) we have to keep in mind that light of these objects propagates though this cosmic web . moreover , matter distribution does influence light propagation . therefore ,",
    "if we want to reduce the observational data properly , we have to know what is the impact of inhomogeneous matter distribution on results of the astronomical observations .",
    "as stated above , to properly analyze the observations general relativity has to be employed .",
    "the einstein equations of general relativity are as follows :    @xmath5    where @xmath6 is the einstein tensor which describes the geometry of the space ",
    "time , @xmath7 is the energy ",
    "momentum tensor , @xmath8 is the metric , and @xmath9 is the cosmological constant .",
    "the einstein equations state that there is a correspondence between the geometry of the space  time and matter distribution in the space  time . in general , these equations are a set of 10 partial differential equations , which are very hard to solve even numerically .",
    "however , if some symmetries are assumed , these equations can be solved analytically .",
    "the most popular assumption is that the space is homogeneous .",
    "however , because of homogeneity one can not describe the process of structure formation .",
    "one of the alternatives is to employ a perturbation theory , such as the linear approach .",
    "however , structure formation is a very non  linear process ( bolejko 2006a ; 2006b ) hence the linear approach is inadequate .",
    "another alternative is n  body simulation .",
    "body simulation describes the evolution of a large amount of particles which interact gravitationally .",
    "however , the interactions between particles are described by newtonian mechanics , and in the newtonian mechanics matter does not affect light propagation . hence within the n ",
    "body simulations it is impossible to estimate the influence of matter distribution on light propagation . in general relativity the situation is different , the geometry defined by matter distribution determines along which paths the light will propagate .",
    "thus to trace light propagation and estimate the influence of cosmic structures on light propagation one has to use an exact solution of einstein s equations .",
    "but there are no exact solutions which would fully describe such a complicated system as our universe . to describe the structure formation one has to focus on small scales , where one can employ models suitable for this purpose . for evolution of single structures ( such as clusters or voids ) the lematre",
    " tolman model ( lematre 1933 , tolman 1934 ) can be used , and for evolution of double structures ( a void and an adjourning cluster ) the quasispherical szekeres model can be employed . the szekeres model represents a time ",
    "dependent mass dipole superposed on a monopole .",
    "so it is suitable for modelling double structures .",
    "the szekeres model also makes it possible to examine interactions between the considered structures .",
    "for our purpose it is convenient to use a coordinate system different from that in which szekeres ( 1975a ) originally found his solution .",
    "the metric is of the following form ( hellaby & krasiski 2002 ) :    @xmath10    where @xmath11 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 is an arbitrary function of @xmath14 .",
    "the function @xmath15 is given by : @xmath16 where the functions @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 , and @xmath20 satisfy the relation : @xmath21 but are otherwise arbitrary .    as can be seen from ( 2 )",
    ", only @xmath22 allows the model to have all three flrw limits ( hyperbolic , flat , and spherical ) .",
    "this follows from the requirement of the lorentzian signature of the metric ( 2 ) .",
    "as we are interested in the friedmann limit of our model , i.e. we expect it becomes a homogeneous friedmann model at a large distance from the origin , we will focus only on the @xmath23 case .",
    "the @xmath24 case is called the quasispherical szekeres model .",
    "the einstein equations reduce to the following two :    @xmath25    @xmath26    where @xmath27 , @xmath28 is matter density , and @xmath29 .    in the newtonian limit",
    "@xmath30 is equal to the mass inside the shell of radial coordinate @xmath14 .",
    "however , it is not an integrated rest mass but the active gravitational mass that generates the gravitational field . by analogy with the newtonian energy conservation equation , eq .",
    "( 5 ) shows that the function @xmath31 represents the energy per unit mass of the particles in the shells of matter at constant @xmath14 . on the other hand , by analogy with the friedman equation , and from the metric ( 2 )",
    ", the function @xmath32 determines the geometry of the spatial sections @xmath33const .",
    "however , since @xmath32 is a function of the radial coordinate , the geometry of the space is now position dependent .",
    "( 5 ) can be integrated :    @xmath34    where @xmath35 appears as an integration constant , and is an arbitrary function of @xmath14 .",
    "this means that the big bang is not a single event as in the friedmann models , but occurs at different times for different distances from the origin .",
    "as can be seen , the szekeres model is specified by 6 functions .",
    "however , by a choice of the coordinates , the number of independent functions can be reduced to 5 .",
    "the szekeres model is known to have no symmetry ( bonnor , sulaiman , & tomimura 1977 ) .",
    "it is of great flexibility and wide application in cosmology ( bonnor & tomimura 1976 ) , and in astrophysics ( szekeres 1975b ; hellaby & krasiski 2002 ) , and still it can be used as a model of many astronomical phenomena .",
    "this paper aims to present the application of the quasispherical szekeres model to the process of structure formation .",
    "since the quasispherical szekeres model represents a time  dependent mass dipole superposed on a monopole , we will employ this model to describe the evolution of a void and an adjourning galaxy supercluster .",
    "below the algorithm of the model s specification and its evolution is presented .      to specify the model we need to know 5 functions .",
    "let three out of these five unknown functions be @xmath36 .",
    "these function are assumed to be of the following form :    @xmath37    the next two functions can be any two of the set @xmath38 , or of any other combination of functions , from which these can be calculated .",
    "the function @xmath39 describes the active gravitational mass inside the @xmath33 const , @xmath40 const sphere .",
    "let us take the mass distribution as presented in fig .",
    "2 presents not the @xmath39 function itself , but @xmath41 ( see a comment after eq . ( 6 ) ) . since the void is placed at the origin , the mass of the model in fig .",
    "2 is below the background mass , however , it is compensated by more dense regions , and at the distance of about @xmath42 mpc the mass distribution becomes as in the homogeneous background .    to define the model",
    "we need one more function .",
    "let us assume that the bang time function , @xmath43 , is constant and equal to zero . then from eq .",
    "( 7 ) the function @xmath44 can be calculated .",
    "the lhs of eq .",
    "( 7 ) was calculated using the 64points gauss  legendre quadrature . the value of @xmath45 on the rhs of eq .",
    "( 7 ) was assumed to be the present instant",
    ". then the function @xmath32 was calculated by the bisection method .      as can be seen from eqs .",
    "( 6 ) , ( 3 ) , and ( 4 ) , to calculate the density distribution for any instant @xmath46 , one needs to know 5 functions : @xmath47 , and @xmath48 . using these functions the density distribution of the present day structures",
    "can be calculated ( see sec .",
    "then , the evolution of the system can be traced back in time .",
    "the density distribution depends on time only via the function @xmath49 and its derivative .",
    "the value of @xmath49 for any instant can be calculated by solving the differential equation ( 5 ) . in most cases , as in this paper , this equation can be solved only numerically . to solve this equation one needs to know the initial conditions : @xmath50 , the functions @xmath39 , @xmath51 , and the value of @xmath9 .",
    "this equation was solved numerically using the fourth  order runge  kutt method . knowing the value of @xmath49 for any instant the density distribution can be calculated as described above .",
    "this section presets the evolution of the present  day void and the adjourning galaxy supercluster in the expanding universe . far away from the origin , density and",
    "velocity distributions tend to the values that they would have in a homogeneous friedmann model .",
    "3 presents the present  day density distribution of the considered structure . on the left side of fig .",
    "3 the schematic cross  sections are presented , on the right side density distributions on these cross  sections are presented . as can be seen , at large distance from the origin",
    "the density distribution is homogeneous and as the distance gets smaller the structure begins to appear . at the equator",
    "the structure is most visible .",
    "the density distribution on this equatorial cross  section ( fig .",
    "3 , at the bottom ) is also presented at the top of fig .",
    "4 depicts the colour coded ( left side ) density distributions . on the right side of fig .",
    "4 the density profiles are plotted . as can be seen",
    "the density distributions within these structures are consistent with the observational data presented in sec .",
    "2 .      this subsection discusses the evolution of the density profile presented in the upper right panel of fig .",
    "4 . in fig .",
    "5 density profiles are plotted for different time instants . as can be seen in fig .",
    "5 the structure formation is a non  linear process . in the linear approach , during the evolution the shape of the initial fluctuation",
    "does not change . only the amplitude changes .",
    "moreover , in the linear approach the evolution of the density contrast does not depend on its sign . here , as can be seen in fig .",
    "when the age of the universe was 1 gyr , the absolute value of the density contrast inside the void was larger than inside the cluster .",
    "when the age of the universe was 5.5 gyr , the absolute values of these density contrast were comparable . since that instant the amplitude of the density contrast inside the cluster started to grow much faster than the absolute value of the amplitude inside the void . for detailed comparisons between the evolution in the linear approach and in the quasispherical szekeres model",
    "see bolejko ( 2006b ) .",
    "light propagation within the szekeres model can be investigated by calculating null geodesics .",
    "systematic studies of this problem will provide insight in the following issues :    1 .   the impact of matter inhomogeneities on the luminosity distance . + the studies of this issue within the lematre  tolman model ( bolejko 2005 ) proved that realistic matter fluctuations can change the observed luminosity even by @xmath52 mag . however , since the lematre  tolman model assumes spherical symmetry , similar analysis in non  symmetrical models should be repeated .",
    "2 .   estimation of the age of the universe",
    ". + the estimated age of the universe up to the last scattering moment within the szekeres model and within the flrw model is similar .",
    "this is due to homogeneous matter distribution .",
    "however , after the last scattering when matter inhomogeneities started to grow the results obtained within these two models might differ .",
    "for example the time that the light will need to propagate from regions of redshift @xmath53 is different in a homogeneous than in an inhomogeneous model .",
    "the difference is due to the interaction between the cosmic structures and the photons propagating through them .",
    "this difference can be estimated by employing the quasispherical szekeres model .",
    "the mass of galaxy clusters . + the mass of a galaxy cluster can be estimated on the basis of dynamics of the observed galaxies .",
    "the observables of this method are : the angular distance from the center of the cluster , and the redshift .",
    "as mentioned above the distance to the point of redshift @xmath54 is different in various cosmological models .",
    "also the angular distance from the center depends on the model . in most cases",
    "it is assumed that an angular distance is as in the euclidean space  proportional to the physical distance . in general relativity ,",
    "the path of light of the observed galaxy can be bent by the gravitational field of the cluster .",
    "the quasispherical szekeres model can be used to estimate the impact of the inhomogeneous and non  symmetrical mass distribution on the calculated mass of observed cluster .",
    "this paper presents the cosmological application of the quasispherical szekeres model .",
    "this model is an exact solution of the einstein field equations , which represents a time ",
    "dependent mass dipole superposed on a monopole .",
    "therefore , the szekeres model is suitable for modelling double structures such as voids and adjourning galaxy superclusters .",
    "the models based on the szekeres solution have also one more advantage  they can be employed in solving problems of light propagation , which is impossible within the n  body simulations .",
    "the szekeres model has a great , and so far unused , potential for applications in cosmology .",
    "it is not only suitable for studying the interactions between cosmic structures , but can also be used for estimation of the impact of matter inhomogeneities on light propagation .",
    "the szekeres model is suitable for the investigation of following issues :     the mass estimation based of the dynamics of galaxies ,     the luminosity of distant objects , such as high  redshift supernovae ,     the age of the universe .",
    "i would like to thank andrzej krasiski and charles hellaby for their valuable comments and discussions concerning the szekeres model .",
    "bardelli , s. , zucca , e. , zamorani , g. , moscardini , l. , & scaramella , r. 2000 , mnras , 312 , 540 bolejko , k. 2005 , astro - ph/0512103 bolejko , k. 2006a , mnras ( to be published ) ; pre - print : astro - ph/0503356 bolejko , k. 2006b , phys .",
    "d ( to be published ) ; pre - print : astro - ph/0604490 bonnor , w. b. , sulaiman , a. h. , & tomimura , n. 1977 , gen .",
    "gravitation , 8 , 549 bonnor , w. b. , & tomimura , n. 1976 , mnras , 175 , 85 hellaby , c. , & krasiski , a. 2002 , phys .",
    "d , 66 , 084011 hoyle , f. , & vogeley , m. s. 2004 , apj , 607 , 751 hudson , m. j. 1993 , mnras , 265 , 43 kolatt , t. , dekel , a. , & lahav , o. 1995 , mnras , 275 , 797 lematre , g. 1933 , ann .",
    "bruxelles , a53 , 51 ; reprinted in 1997 , gen .",
    "gravitation , 29 , 641 szekeres , p. 1975a",
    "phys . , 41 , 55 szekeres , p. 1975b",
    "d12 , 2941 tolman , r. c. 1934 , proc .",
    "usa , 20 , 169 ; reprinted in 1997 , gen .",
    "gravitation , 29 , 935"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents the cosmological applications of the quasispherical szekeres model . </S>",
    "<S> the quasispherical szekeres model is an exact solution of the einstein field equations , which represents a time  </S>",
    "<S> dependent mass dipole superposed on a monopole and therefore is suitable for modelling double structures such as voids and adjourning galaxy superclusters . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , as the szekeres model is an exact solution of the einstein equations it enables tracing light and estimation of the impact of cosmic structures on light propagation . </S>",
    "<S> this paper presents the evolution of a void and adjourning supercluster and also reports on how the szekeres model might be employed either for the estimation of mass of galaxies clusters or for the estimation of the luminosity distance .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}