{
  "article_text": [
    "unless our present understanding of gravitation is incorrect , the milky way and most other galaxies , possess a halo of dark , or barely luminous , matter that extends well beyond the visible boundaries of the galaxy .",
    "present cosmological constraints strongly favour non - baryonic dark matter , though the problem is complicated by the possibility that there may be several types of dark matter ; for instance , galactic dark matter may have little to do with dark matter in galaxy clusters or on larger scales @xcite . in our own galaxy , this halo component appears to extend out to at least 50 kpc as traced by the magellanic clouds @xcite , and may well continue to beyond the orbit of leo  i at @xmath2 distance @xcite .",
    "given the large uncertainty in the extent of these structures , their total mass is poorly constrained , but even within 50 kpc it is clear that they must contain orders of magnitude more mass than the clearly visible baryons in the form of stars and gas .",
    "one of the few direct constraints on the mass distribution of the constituent particles of galactic halos comes from the magellanic cloud microlensing experiments @xcite .",
    "the most recent report of the detection rate of microlensing events @xcite supports a simple model where approximately 20% of the milky way halo is made up of objects of @xmath3 , consistent with the result of @xcite .",
    "though the halo fraction and object mass are model dependent , the main uncertainty arises from the possibility that the lmc may possess a substantial ( dynamically hot ) stellar halo of its own .",
    "given the absence of evidence for this latter possibility , the microlensing conclusions must be taken seriously .",
    "these machos are most likely situated approximately half - way to the lmc , where the optical depth to microlensing is highest . however , unless the machos were effectively decoupled from nucleosynthesis ( as would presumably be the case for primordial black holes ) , it is unlikely that machos fill galactic halos entirely , as this would break nucleosynthesis constraints .",
    "apart from ancient white dwarfs ( wds ) , all stellar macho candidates can be safely ruled out .",
    "ancient wds , which have stellar masses in the range measured by the macho experiment ( @xmath4@xmath5 ) , are not yet ruled out by direct starcount observations , but are difficult to envisage as a macho population due to several indirect constraints ( see e.g. , fields , freese & graff 1998 ; graff   1999 ) , including most importantly chemical enrichment of the early galaxy @xcite , though for a possible work - around of this problem , see @xcite .",
    "this renewed interest in ancient halo wds is mainly due to a theoretical reappraisal of the wd cooling function .",
    "new models with a self - consistent treatment of radiation transfer and the inclusion of molecular hydrogen opacity @xcite drastically change the predicted colours and magnitudes of the oldest , and hence coolest , wds . in particular , hydrogen atmosphere ( da )",
    "wds with ages @xmath6 have depressed red and nir flux ; contrary to previous expectations they become bluer in , for instance , @xmath7 , with age .",
    "@xcite recently presented a proper motion analysis using two epochs of i - band imaging data in the hubble deep field .",
    "they identified a small sample 25 faint , and relatively blue compact sources , that appear to move with respect to the numerous background galaxies .",
    "the colours , motions , and number of these sources are consistent with the hypothesis that they are members of a numerous halo population of ancient wds , with a spectral energy distribution similar to that predicted by the hansen models .",
    "the local mass density of this population appears similar to that of the `` standard '' halo model used by the macho and eros collaborations @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , the measured proper motions are at the detection limit , and they are exceedingly faint ( @xmath8 ) , so spectroscopic confirmation is currently impossible .    striking confirmation that the new wd models are more appropriate has been given by @xcite .",
    "their spectrum of wd0346 + 246 shows a large supression of the nir flux relative to a black - body model fit to the visible radiation , as predicted by @xcite for ancient da wds .",
    "furthermore , the proper motion of wd0346 + 246 and the measured parallax , indicate that it is most likely a halo member .",
    "therefore , halo wds do seem to exist and the da subset have bluer colours than originally expected ( wd0346 + 246 has @xmath9 ) .",
    "the next important question to address is the local mass density of this population , in particular , are they present in sufficient numbers to contribute sgnificantly to the proposed halo of machos ?",
    "to detect the nearby counterparts of the population of wd machos tentatively detected by @xcite , we have undertaken complementary wide field photographic plate surveys of very high proper motion ( @xmath10vhpm ) stars . with a survey limit @xmath1 magnitudes brighter than the hdf limit , we need to cover a field one million times larger than the @xmath11 wfpc2 field to probe the same halo volume .",
    "the expected proper motions can be several @xmath12 , and candidates will be predominantly at the faint limit of the plates , where existing catalogues ( cf . lhs catalog , luyten 1979 ) are heavily incomplete . faced with the difficulty of reliably identifying vhpm stars among thousands of potential candidates , we have investigated three independent techniques to cross - check results .",
    "these analyses are based on different combinations of existing plate material and probe different aspects of the problem ; survey 1:- uses selected pairs of appropriate uk schmidt telescope ( ukst ) @xmath13 plates with short epoch differences for sensitivity to `` blue '' vhpm stars ; survey 2:- uses standard ukst @xmath13 and r sky survey plate pairs and has the potential to probe all of the southern sky ; and survey 3:- includes an extra third epoch eso - src survey r plate to enable searching to deeper limits for @xmath14 .",
    "all of the southern sky has been observed by the ukst in both blue ( @xmath15 ) and red ( r ) passbands , and the designated survey quality plates for more than half of this area have been processed by the automatic plate measuring ( apm ) facility @xcite .",
    "this forms the basis for pilot studies using the three survey methods .",
    "the total error in measuring the relative proper motion is generally @xmath16 , negligible in the context of the survey .      while the generic ukst @xmath13 , r survey material is an excellent resource for locating objects of average colour ( g  k type ) and modest proper motions ( @xmath17 )",
    ", it may not be ideal for the detection of ancient halo wds given the colour uncertainty and the generally large epoch difference , 1015  years .",
    "consequently for survey  1 we have based proper motion detection on only blue passband ( @xmath18 ) ukst plates with a shorter epoch difference 1@xmath19 t @xmath19 10 years , to enhance the sensitivity to the oldest wds . as would be expected , the available ukst archival non ",
    "survey grade plates are a heterogeneous mixture of plate qualities and epochs . with the help of sue tritton of the ukst unit , we selected 21 deep `` b''-grade @xmath18 southern survey plates for scanning .",
    "this sample was chosen in fields with extant apm on - line ukst @xmath13 and or catalogue data .",
    "the search algorithm works as follows : first the overall plate - to - plate transformation is derived using all objects on the plates that match ( iteratively ) within @xmath20 .",
    "the extra `` b''-grade @xmath13 plate data is then matched to the exisiting survey @xmath18,r catalogue .",
    "objects matching within a radius of @xmath20 for our purposes are taken to have negligible proper motion and are discarded .",
    "this leaves a catalog of what are mostly spurious detections ( noise , diffraction spikes , extended object deblending problems , close object deblending problems , incompleteness problems , etc . ) , among which there is a tiny proportion of actual vhpm objects . to minimise contamination by spurious detections ,",
    "unmatched objects were only considered as possible hpm objects if they were stellar in appearance , and brighter than @xmath21 on both blue plates .",
    "remaining unmatched objects were then considered to be possible matches if they were within a search radius of @xmath22 .    in this way we obtained a provisional list of 1426 candidates .",
    "after visual examination of the apm object finding charts , dss images of the field ( if available ) , and visual comparision with the r - band survey plates , we made a sub - selection of 101 candidate vhpm stars for followup observations . the majority of the 1325 rejected candidates were from situations where there was a clear error , for example , a detection on the apm plate scan which did not appear on the dss scan of the same plate , detections near large galaxies or bright stars .",
    "we note that some of the rejects at this stage were based on less secure criteria having , for example , suspiciously elongated profiles on the apm finding charts , or apparently different magnitudes after allowing for the different plate depth between epochs .",
    "unfortunately , the probity of rejection based on these last criteria is difficult to quantify , particularly near the plate limits .",
    "two plates proved to be unusable , giving a total area of 19 fields in this survey .",
    "this difficulty in probing to near the plate limits lead to our decision to undertake the 2nd complementary survey to shallower depths , using just the already available apm online catalogue @xmath18 and r plate data .",
    "the results from the first search technique plus the properties of the halo wd wd0346 + 246 were used to fine tune the selection criteria . in a similar manner to survey  1 , brighter candidates , stellar in appearance , with 12 @xmath19 r @xmath19 19.5 and @xmath23 21.5 , and with possible pm @xmath24 , were selected from a random sample of 24 equatorial region fields .",
    "the bright limit was imposed because on deep ukst sky survey plates images brighter than this are heavily saturated , show strong diffraction spikes , and are imbedded in large reflection halos , making both accurate photometry and astrometry difficult to achieve .",
    "equatorial fields were chosen because on average they have much shorter epoch differences , @xmath25 years , between the r and @xmath13 survey plates compared to the so - called southern survey plates , @xmath26 , where the average epoch difference is 14 years .    due to storage limitations at the time of catalogue construction the extant apm online catalogue recorded data on the coordinate system of the reference r plate and only recorded separate coordinate information for the @xmath15 plate data if there are no matches within @xmath27 , giving a lower limit to the proper motions that can be observed .",
    "of the 24 selected equatorial fields , 11 had epoch differences of 3 years or less , and although processed were not used in the sample .",
    "the remaining 13 fields had epoch differences between 49  and produced a total of 87 candidates . after careful visual inspection of the online catalogue data",
    "36 candidates were left . finally , the remaining candidates were cross - checked with dss images and visually inspected on first epoch ( 1950s ) palomar sky survey plates to check the reality of the candidate and the proper motion .",
    "this left a total of 9 guaranteed vhpm candidates .",
    "the third strategy is based on a three epoch plate analysis from the ukst apm on - line catalogue and eso - r survey plates scanned by the mama ( guibert et al .",
    "1984 , see also http://dsmama.obspm.fr ) and is more sensitive to bright , red , extreme hpm objects .",
    "the survey covers 24 schmidt plate fields at high galactic latitude , selected according to the high - grade image quality of plates and with epoch differences between 315 . of these ,",
    "4 fields are in common with survey  1 , so the effective additional area surveyed is 20 fields .",
    "unlike the apm candidate selection which used the @xmath28@xmath29 pixel coordinates of the scanned plates , the eso - r plate mama data matching used celestial coordinates based on tycho catalogue astrometric solutions @xcite .",
    "vhpm candidates were selected by requiring a consistent alignement of celestial coordinates at the three epochs .",
    "the candidates were selected to have similar r magnitudes on ukst - r and eso - r plates .",
    "two regimes were considered : for @xmath30 , pms of @xmath31 were sought , while for @xmath32 a pm upper limit of @xmath33 was imposed .",
    "the 417 candidates thus detected were inspected visually on dss - i and ii images ( when available ) and also eso - r plates , from which 20 objects were selected for observation , corresponding to the bluest detections ( @xmath34 ) with the highest pm .",
    "all of the 101 candidate vhpm stars detected in survey  1 were imaged with efosc2 on the eso  3.6 m telescope on the night of 1999 october 1 .",
    "short g - band exposures ( to match the @xmath35 passband ) were obtained centered on the discovery positions .",
    "of the 101 candidates ; 72 detections were found to be due to incompleteness of the photographic plates ; 20 objects were confirmed to be genuine vhpm stars , while a further 9 candidates were consistent with objects that had moved out of the @xmath36 field of view of the instrument ( that is , possibly amazingly high pm objects , but most likely just due to noise ) .    of the 20 candidates from survey  3",
    ", direct ccd exposures revealed that 18 were real moving stars with @xmath37 , while the 2 most extreme pm candidates were rejected being in fact due to spurious alignments of 3 different stars , each one appearing alone on each plate , an expected occurence close to the detection limit of plates .    on the nights of 1999",
    "october 2 and 3 , four of the 20 confirmed candidates from survey  1 were observed with the spectroscopic mode of efosc2 .",
    "very high winds limited our choice of targets , while the poor seeing conditions made us choose to set the slit width to @xmath20 , reducing the spectral resolution .",
    "all objects were first observed with grating # 1 ( 3185  to 10940 ) , to obtain an identification spectrum , with follow - up with the higher resolution gratings # 9 ( 4700   to 6770 ) , and # 12 ( 6015  to 10320 ) .    finally ,",
    "the spectrum of the most extreme high proper motion star of survey  2 , in ukst field f821 , was kindly observed for us by l. storrie - lombardi & c. peroux at the ctio 4 m on the night of 1999 october 13 using the r - c spectrograph with the loral 3k ccd and the kpgl-2 grating covering the wavelength range 3350  to 9400 , sampled at 2 / pixel .",
    "the full results of these surveys will be presented in a forthcoming paper . here",
    "we focus on two vhpm stars discovered in surveys  1 and 2 .    in the left panel of figure  1",
    ", we display the flux - calibrated low resolution spectrum of the highest proper motion star in survey  1 , f351 - 50 , a featureless wd with @xmath38 , @xmath39 , @xmath40 ( i - band photometry from denis ) and @xmath41 at pa @xmath42 , located at @xmath43 45 17.78 , @xmath44 29 10.0 , epoch 1987.88 .",
    "the upper panel of figure  2 acts as a finder and also demonstrates the high proper motion of the object .",
    "the absence of distinct absorption lines and the colour of f351 - 50 are consistent with it being a cool da wd .",
    "( unfortunately , this absence of spectral lines makes it impossible to measure a radial velocity for this object , even from the higher spectral resolution data ) . also superimposed in figure  1",
    "is a @xmath45  k black body model , which provides a good fit to the visual region of the spectrum with @xmath46 .",
    "it is readily apparent that there is a substantial depression of the flux redward of @xmath47 in this object , precisely as was originally seen in the now confirmed ancient halo wd star wd0346 + 246 ( hambly  1997 , their figure  3 ) .",
    "what galactic population does this object belong to ? lacking a parallax , we may still estimate its distance from other constraints .",
    "first , the universe is not old enough for @xmath48 da wds to have cooled fainter than @xmath49 @xcite so f351 - 50 must be located at a distance @xmath50 . at this distance",
    "its total space velocity with respect to the sun is @xmath51 , which clearly indicates that it is not a thin or thick disk member .",
    "the only remaining alternative is that it is a halo object .",
    "assuming an upper limit to the space motion of @xmath52 , its distance is constrained to be closer than @xmath53 ( this neglects the radial velocity component )",
    ". finally , assuming , for now , a similar absolute magnitude to wd0346 + 246 places it at a distance of @xmath54 . at that distance",
    "the expected reflex solar motion for a stationary halo object is @xmath55 at pa @xmath56 , in good agreement with the observed motion .",
    "given the success of this initial @xmath13 plate survey and the similar colour to wd0346 + 246 , we subsequently checked whether the result was reproduced in survey  2 , which used the extant apm catalog scans .",
    "the spectrum of f821 - 07 , the most extreme hpm star found in survey  2 ( @xmath57 , @xmath58 , @xmath59 at pa @xmath60 , @xmath61 19 09.96 , @xmath62 12 32.5 , epoch 1988.92 ) , is shown in the right hand panel of figure  1 together with finding charts and demonstrable high proper motion in the lower panel of figure  2 .",
    "f821 - 07 also has a similar spectral shape to wd0346 + 246 @xcite , showing it to be another featureless wd star , and the very large proper motion , @xmath59 implies halo membership for the same reasons as stated previously for f351 - 50 .",
    "interestingly , after careful inspection of the lhs catalogue it was clear that f821 - 07 had the same proper motion within measurement errors , and was within 1  arcmin of the position of , the previously known hpm object lhs  542 .",
    "f351 - 50 has no plausible counterpart in the lhs catalogue and remains a new discovery .",
    "as we will show in a forthcoming paper , the population of known nearby white dwarfs contains a previously unnoticed ancient halo population , and lhs  542 , in particular , is an excellent candidate for a cool halo wd .",
    "furthermore , the known parallax of lhs  542 implies a distance of @xmath63 @xcite and hence a high space motion typical of halo objects .",
    "no ancient wds were found in survey 3 . this is partly due to the added incompleteness from the requirement that a star be detected , and be classified as stellar , on 3 , rather than 2 , plates . at each epoch , for @xmath64 , the probability of detection and correct classification is @xmath65% .",
    "for rapidly moving sources , there is also a @xmath66% chance that they will randomly be situated close ( within @xmath67 ) to the detection isophote of a stationary source , and so not be detected as a point source .",
    "we estimate the completeness of surveys  1 and 2 is , respectively , @xmath68% and @xmath69% , while survey  3 is @xmath70% complete .",
    "survey  3 is also not sensitive to faint @xmath71 , high pm @xmath72 stars : one of the two detected hpm stars is outside of the selection limit of this survey .",
    "this implies that the efficiency of the detection is close to half the efficiency of the first two strategies , reducing the completeness of survey  3 to @xmath73% .",
    "discounting the overlapping regions between adjacent plates , and the area occupied by bright stars and unusable regions of the plates , surveys 1 , 2 and 3 have , respectively , areas of @xmath74 , @xmath75 , and @xmath76 , giving a total effective area of @xmath77 explored .",
    "we have only followed up obvious detections up to @xmath78 .",
    "model predictions ( b. hansen , priv .",
    "comm . ) for @xmath79  k da wds are that @xmath80 , so we are sensitive to a distance modulus of @xmath81 , that is , a distance of @xmath82 .",
    "the finding of @xmath83 stars closer than @xmath82 , over the @xmath84 area of the survey implies a local density of : @xmath85 where @xmath86 are the individual object masses . lacking any information on individual masses",
    ", we assume a reasonable value of @xmath87 @xcite .",
    "thus the local mass density of this population is : @xmath88 the expected mass density of white dwarfs in the stellar spheroid , given the subdwarf star counts , and assuming a standard imf , is @xmath89 @xcite , that is , approximately two orders of magnitude lower than this estimate .",
    "this suggests that the imf is not universal , and was substantially steeper in the progenitor population of these wds .",
    "the density derived above is @xmath1% of the local density ( @xmath90 ) of the `` standard '' dark matter halo model used by the macho collaboration @xcite .",
    "however , the halo mass fraction in wds could be even larger , as surveys 2 and 3 are probably not sensitive to the older ( and bluer ) da wds ; while similar aged helium atmosphere ( db ) wds would be too faint to be detected by any of these methods ( see hansen 1998 ) .",
    "we note that our density estimate is consistent with the updated results from the macho collaboration @xcite , which appeared after the submission of this paper .",
    "thus it appears that a significant fraction of galactic dark matter may be baryonic , and in the form of cool and hence very old wds , the remants of the first stellar populations .",
    "we caution that this analysis is based on very low number statistics , and therefore requires confirmation .",
    "an all - sky survey to @xmath91 at galactic latitudes @xmath92 ( as is feasable to undertake with extant photographic plates ) , and with completeness similar to the present work , should find @xmath93 such stars , providing a sample with which the halo may be age - dated in a way independent of isochrone fits @xcite .",
    "also , very deep hst proper motion data towards the galactic center and anticenter directions will constrain the radial density gradient of this population , thereby checking whether this is a local , perhaps transient , feature , or a massive galactic structure .",
    "alcock , c. , 1997 ,  486 , 697 alcock , c. , 2000 , astro - ph/0001272 afonso , c. , 1999 , a&a 344 , 63 bosma , a. 1998 , cemda 72 , 69 chabrier , g. , 1999 ,  513 , 103 - 106 fields , b. , freese , k. , graff , d. 1998 , new astronomy 3 , 347 gibson , b. & mould , j. , 1997 ,  482 , 98 - 103 graff , d. , freese , k. , walker , t. , pinsonneault , m. 1999 ,  523 , 77l guibert , j. , charvin , p. , stoclet , p. 1984 , in astronomy with schmidt - type telescopes , proc .",
    "m. capaccioli ( reidel , dordrecht ) p.165 gould , a. , flynn , c. , bahcall , j. 1998 ,  503 , 798 hansen , b. , 1998 ,  394 , 860 hambly , n. , smartt , s. , hodgkin , s. 1997 ,  489 , l157 hodgkin , s. , oppenheimer , b. , hambly , n. , jameson , r. , smartt , s. , steele , i. 2000 ,  403 , 57 ibata , r. , richer , h. , gilliland , r. , scott , d. 1999 ,  524 , 95l kibblewhite , e. , bridgeland , m. , bunclark , p. , irwin , m. 1984 , in proc .",
    "microdensitometry conf .",
    "nasa-2317 ( nasa , washington dc ) p277 leggett , s. k. , ruiz , m. r. , bergeron , p. 1998",
    ",  497 , 294 lin , d. , jones , b. , klemola , a. 1995 ,  439 , 652 luyten , w. 1979 , `` lhs catalogue '' , minneapolis : university of minnesota palanque - delabrouille , n. , 1998 , a&a 332 , 1 richer , 1997 ,  484 , 741 robichon , n. 1995 , a&a 304 , 132 saumon , d. & jacobson , s. , 1999 ,  511 , l107 - 110 zaritsky , d. 1999 , in the third stromlo symposium : the galactic halo , eds .",
    "gibson , b. , axelrod , t. & putman , m. , asp conference series vol .",
    "165 , p. 34"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the discovery and spectroscopic identification of two very high proper motion ancient white dwarf stars , found in a systematic proper motion survey . </S>",
    "<S> their kinematics and apparent magnitude clearly indicate that they are halo members , while their optical spectra are almost identical to the recently identified cool halo white dwarf wd0346 + 246 . </S>",
    "<S> canonical stellar halo models predict a white dwarf volume density of two orders of magnitude less than the @xmath0 inferred from this survey . with the caveat that the sample size is very small </S>",
    "<S> , it appears that a significant fraction , @xmath1% , of the local dark matter halo is in the form of very old , cool , white dwarfs . </S>"
  ]
}