{
  "article_text": [
    "`` _ what is the age of [ star catalog ] [ index # ] ? _ '' is probably one of the most frustrating astronomical inquiries that one can make , and also one of the most quixotic of tasks to tackle . for studies of the evolution of interesting properties related to stars ( e.g. planeticity , circumstellar disk evolution , etc . )",
    ", astronomers would ideally like a robust means of estimating the age of any star in the sky .",
    "there are difficulties with age estimation throughout the stellar mass spectrum , with some stellar mass and age regimes more amenable to age - dating than others due to rapid structural evolution .",
    "to make matters worse for the estimation of ages for field stars , most useful age diagnostics can manifest a wide range of values amongst stars in supposedly coeval clusters .",
    "there are age - dating methods that are becoming more _ precise _ ( e.g. li depletion boundary , gyrochronology , asteroseismology ) , but it remains to be seen how _ accurate _ they are when some underlying critical physics and parameters ( e.g. the solar metal fraction , convection , etc . )",
    "are still matters of active debate .",
    "of course , the `` golden spike '' of the stellar age scale is the sun , which has its age constrained by lead isotopic ages of the oldest portions of meteorites ( the ca - al - rich inclusions ; 4567.2@xmath00.6 myr old ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    at the _ cool stars 14 _ meeting held in pasadena in 2006 , a splinter session of talks was held devoted to discussing contemporary issues regarding the ages of cool stars .",
    "here we summarize a subsample of those talks ( which due to time constraints covered only a subsample of age - related topics ) and point the reader to recent studies relevant to the stellar age scale .",
    "the text in the following sections reflects the current state of the field in the view of the various authors , and no attempt has been made to reconcile their results and opinions .",
    "a survey in the literature will easily show that , for a given stellar association , there is a large range of age estimates .",
    "these differences arise from different facts .",
    "first , we have different sets of theoretical models which might produce different answers for the same dataset . in any case , the comparison between observational properties and those predicted by theory is not an easy task ( see * ? ? ?",
    "moreover , stars are individuals , and they have properties , such as starspots , accretion rates , initial conditions , etc . , which can alter the age estimate . as an example",
    ", colors can be modified by surface inhomogeneities @xcite which can affect a cluster s placement in a color - magnitude diagram .",
    "an additional problem is coevality .",
    "it is normally assumed that members of an association are born almost at the same time , but this is not necessarily true . on the other hand , among the methods we use to estimate ages , both",
    "_ primary _",
    "( upper main sequence and isochrone fitting , eclipsing binaries , spectral features , lithium ) and _ secondary _ ( stellar activity , rotation , group membership ) , there are many pitfalls since there are uncertainties in the input physics .",
    "moreover , each of these methods is valid for a given range of stellar ages and masses , a fact that is not always honored .",
    "all these sources of uncertainty make the stellar chronology very uncertain although sometimes we can find formal errors of tenths of myr , which are far from our present capabilities .    from my point of view",
    ", we should aim for consistency . a given property ( or properties )",
    "allow us to sort a set of stellar associations from the youngest to the oldest , even if we can not derive absolute ages .",
    "even if other properties produce a different age scale , at least we should be able to have the same kind of sequence , with taurus being younger than the @xmath1 ori cluster , which is younger than ic2391 , and still much younger than the pleiades .",
    "eventually , we should be able to construct different ages scales which should be consistent with each other , and should produce absolute and well as relative ages .",
    "this only can be achieved with a considerable effort in the theoretical and observational sides of the problem .",
    "specifically , we should gather very large datasets with the same setup for a large number of stellar association , in order to avoid biases .",
    "pre  main - sequence ( pms ) li depletion has the potential to be a valuable age indicator for late - type pms stars , ( see e.g. , the review by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . like any age indicator",
    ", however , the models that tie a particular li abundance and effective temperature ( @xmath3 ) to an age must be calibrated with empirical data .",
    "we observed twelve late - type members of the @xmath2 pic moving group ( bpmg ) at spectral resolution @xmath4 using the echelle spectrograph on the 4-meter blanco telescope at ctio .",
    "spectral types were determined from the tio band indices , and converted to @xmath5 using the intermediate scale given by @xcite for the m stars and the main - sequence ( ms ) scale from @xcite for earlier types .",
    "we determined li abundances by comparing the observed spectra to a grid of high - resolution synthetic spectra .",
    "[ fig : li_depletion1 ] shows li abundance data for the twelve stars overlaid on three sets of models : @xcite .",
    "these stars all have ages of @xmath61020 myr based on their hr diagram positions , but the systematic trend observed in their li depletion is that _ full depletion of li occurs much more rapidly for the m stars than the models predict_. in each of the models , the right side of the dip in the lithium depletion isochrones , which indicates the lithium depletion boundary ( ldb ) , consistently falls at effective temperatures too high for our data if we assume the hr diagram ages are correct .",
    "three stars with spectral types of m4 show fully - depleted li , with an upper limit of @xmath7 ; none of the models predicts significant li depletion in stars of this @xmath3 until ages @xmath8 myr .",
    "some authors have questioned whether the bpmg is truly a coeval group of stars with a common origin .",
    "even if one accepts an age spread in the sample , however , the components of individual binary or multiple systems should be coeval with each other .",
    "examination of the li abundances in individual systems in the sample shows the same discrepancies as the sample as a whole ; the pair bd@xmath917 6128 a / b , and the triple systems hd 155555 a / b / c and gj 803/799n/799s , are inconsistent with having a single li - depletion age for all components .",
    "the direction of the systematic discrepancies reported here are consistent with previous work showing that the ldb occurs at a cooler @xmath3 for a given age than the models predict .",
    "our results are also consistent with the work of @xcite , who suggest that the m3 classical t tauri star could be a young member of tau - aur despite its large li depletion .",
    "hr diagrams of several young clusters and associations suggest the presence of age spreads among cluster members .",
    "understanding whether these spreads are intrinsic or rather due to errors in the determination of stellar parameters and misplacement of the stars on the hr diagram , is crucial for gaining insight into the cluster star formation ( sf ) histories and , in particular , to put constraints on the overall duration of the sf process ( hillenbrand , this volume ) .",
    "constraints on aspects of sf and early ( sub)stellar evolution can also be gathered through the investigation of pms clusters with ages @xmath610 - 50myr . sf in pms clusters has ceased , implying that their members have attained their final masses and that these clusters do not present the complications that are intrinsic to sf environments . on the other hand , pms clusters are generally too young to be dynamically relaxed and thus reveal a cleared view of the final product of the sf process . in this context , using the multiplex instrument flames on vlt / ut2 , we have obtained medium / high resolution spectra of low - mass members of the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) , the @xmath10  ori cluster , and the pms cluster ic  4665 @xcite .",
    "our main goal was the measurement of their lithium content , which provides an independent clock to derive the ages and age spreads .",
    "* onc and @xmath10  ori ",
    "@xcite : * we have observed 141 high  probability cluster members ( membership probability from proper motion @xmath1190% ) down to @xmath60.1m@xmath12 in the onc and 98 cluster candidates in @xmath10  ori .",
    "li abundances were derived from veiling corrected pseudo - equivalent widths ( pews ) of the li  i 670.8 nm feature .",
    "radial velocities were also measured , along with the strength of the he  667.8 nm ( onc ) and h@xmath13 ( @xmath10  ori ) emission lines .",
    "all the onc targets were confirmed as members , while in @xmath10ori 59 _ bona fide _ members were identified .",
    "li abundances are consistent with the interstellar value for most of the sample stars in both clusters . however , six stars in the onc and three stars in @xmath10ori show li depletion factors between @xmath62 - 50 ( onc ) and @xmath11100 ( @xmath10  ori ) . nuclear ages and masses for four li - depleted stars in the onc and two of the three li - depleted stars in @xmath10",
    "ori are in excellent agreement with isochronal ages and masses .",
    "inferred ages are in the range @xmath610 - 30myr , much older than the bulk of the cluster populations .",
    "hence , for both regions , there is independent evidence for a population of old stars mixed with the much larger assembly of young objects , supporting the suggestion that sf in the two clusters has not occurred in a short single burst , but has rather continued for a long time , much in excess of the dynamical time scale .    *",
    "ic  4665 (manzi et al . in prep . ) : * with a turn - off age of 36  myr , this cluster represents a good candidate pms cluster .",
    "we observed 158 candidate members and confirmed membership for 45 of them based on radial velocity , presence of h@xmath13 and/or li absorption line ( depending on mass ) .",
    "the i@xmath14 vs. i@xmath15-z color - magnitude diagram of the confirmed members is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : randich_ldb_ic4665 ] , together with isochrones and the predicted location of the ldb from the evolutionary tracks of @xcite .",
    "the figure shows a sharp boundary : the faintest star without a detected li line has i@xmath16 , while the brightest star with li has i=16.61 .",
    "the ldb was determined as the mean of the two values , assuming @xmath17=370pc , and reddening a@xmath18 .",
    "after considering all of the observational uncertainties , this yields m@xmath19 .",
    "accordingly , ic  4665 has an ldb age of @xmath20  myr . this value confirms the pms nature of ic  4665 and agrees with the turn - off age , the first secure instance for a pms cluster .",
    "the accuracy of stellar ages determined from fitting to evolutionary tracks or isochrones is limited by the accuracy of the tracks themselves .",
    "inaccuracies can arise from missing or incorrect physics in the models as well as physical quantities known with limited precision , such as metallicity .",
    "some of the most important sources of error are discussed here individually , but it is important to remember that there are cross terms between all of these quantities .",
    "the most important problem is the hydrodynamics in stellar models . because evolution calculations are treated as a series of snapshots of static states , dynamics are often ignored",
    ". some elements such as rotation have been added , but are generally treated analytically and in isolation .",
    "deficiencies are often corrected by the inclusion of free parameters calibrated by observations .",
    "a calibration appropriate for one stellar type is generally incorrect for others . as a result , mixing in stars in very poorly described and not predictive .",
    "convection is defined by thermodynamic gradients , which is appropriate only for the onset of convection . once convection is established , the dynamically unstable part of the star is larger than the thermodynamically unstable region , and other processes besides convection can contribute to mixing . evaluating the stability of the stellar stratification against all the available sources of kinetic energy , including turbulent convection , waves , and bulk rotational flows gives a self - consistent and predictive description of the hydrodynamics .",
    "differences from standard models can be large , especially for massive stars .",
    "larger mixed regions result in higher luminosities , larger radii , efficient angular momentum transport , and transport of chemical species to the photosphere . on the ms model ages for a sample of eclipsing binaries from 1 to 23@xmath21 change by 15400% .",
    "radiative transport can be important for stars with deep convective envelopes .",
    "the diffusion time of energy from a fluid parcel can become comparable or even less than the crossing time of the convection zone .",
    "convection becomes very inefficient , leading to larger radii , and ages can differ by 10 s of % .",
    "even complete and correctly implemented physics can cause problems due to the inherent lack of precision in our determination of physical quantities .",
    "a comparison of the opal and @xcite equations of state ( eos ) gives surprising results .",
    "the two formulations differ by at most 2% under any of the conditions tested , yet they produce very different radii on the hayashi track .",
    "ages determined from each model can vary by @xmath660% or so .",
    "the main sequences are not reconcilable without changing the composition or convective treatment .",
    "this is likely the largest source of uncertainty for sub - solar mass tracks .",
    "composition , unsurprisingly , plays a significant role . for a 10% change in composition",
    ", deeply convective stars can have ages different by @xmath610% , while ms ages can change by factors of several .",
    "given that determinations of the solar composition have changed by roughly a third in five years , this is a serious problem , especially when precise metallicities are unavailable for most stars .",
    "the conversion to observables adds another layer of complexity beyond the scope of this discussion .",
    "model atmospheres , temperature to color conversions , rotational evolution ( which require magnetohydrodynamics to model ) , and correct distances are all necessary .",
    "so far we have discussed these sources in isolation . when matching model tracks , radius is the primary comparison , whether directly or through @xmath22 .",
    "individual effects drive radius in opposite directions , and so can not be calibrated out . as a very simplified example of this interplay ,",
    "consider a change in the equation of state .",
    "this changes the stratification of the star .",
    "a change in the stratification changes the extent and vigor of convection .",
    "hydrodynamics enters to change the depth of convection and introduces new mixing processes that change the compositional structure and thus stratification of the star .",
    "these processes also transport angular momentum , which feeds back on the stability and mixing .",
    "these change shift opacities as well as solutions for the eos .",
    "the problem must be solved self - consistently in order to reduce the uncertainties and produce an accurate result .    in short , hydrodynamics introduces changes of 10 s to 100 s of % in age determinations .",
    "radiation transport adds 10 s of % on the hayashi track .",
    "the eos is a surprisingly large contributor at 10 s of % at 1@xmath21 .",
    "composition can be a large effect for relatively small changes .",
    "all of these sources influence each other .",
    "these cross terms can result in much larger synergistic errors , or , more insidiously , the right answers for the wrong reasons .",
    "fortunately , multidimensional simulations are allowing us to understand and generalize the hydrodynamic processes in stars , resulting in a considerable improvement in the models .",
    "though the potential of solar - like oscillations as an effective tool to determine stellar ages has been known for years ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it is just recently that , thanks to the improvement of observational techniques , the seismic modeling of bright nearby stars has become reality .",
    "the uniqueness of a seismic inference of age resides in the fact that oscillation frequencies carry direct information on the structure of the central regions of the star .",
    "a well - known indicator of stellar age for ms stars is the so - called small frequency separation ( @xmath23 ) which , as shown by the asymptotic theory of stellar oscillations @xcite , represents a probe of the sound speed in the energy - generating core .",
    "the evolutionary state of a star can also be inferred by other suitable combinations of frequencies ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ) or , in the case of models of evolved stars , by the detection in the oscillation spectrum of modes of mixed pressure and gravity character ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    as an example of one of the first attempts to model solar - like stars including seismic constraints",
    ", we consider the visual binary system @xmath13 cen that , thanks to the combination of precise `` classical '' constraints ( masses , radii , chemical composition , luminosity ) and the detection of solar - like oscillations in both components @xcite , has recently been the subject of several theoretical studies ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "as predicted by @xcite , the inclusion of @xmath23 in the modeling of the system allows one to significantly reduce the estimated uncertainty on the age of @xmath13 cen .",
    "if the asteroseismic constraints are not included in the fit , a value of @xmath24 gyr is found , whereas the inclusion of seismic constraints reduces the estimated age ( and its uncertainty ) to @xmath25 gyr ( see * ? ?",
    "the accuracy of such age estimates is limited , however , by the poor frequency resolution of current seismic data and , more importantly , by uncertainties in the physics included in the stellar models .",
    "nonetheless , once precise seismic data will be available in observationally well - constrained targets ( e.g. visual binaries ) , asteroseismology will also be able to go beyond the determination of global parameters , and directly test stellar models  not only adding precision , but also accuracy to the age estimates .",
    "that the rotation of cool stars slows as a function of age was first put on a firm observational footing by @xcite .",
    "the wealth of observational data for cool stars in clusters with `` known '' ages gathered over the past decade can be used to construct a useful age estimator from measured stellar rotation periods ( `` _ gyrochronology _ '' ) .",
    "more details about this can be found in @xcite and barnes ( submitted to apj ) .    beyond an age of @xmath6100myr ,",
    "the rotation rate of any late - f to early - m star ( those with surface convection zones and interior radiative zones ) is describable by @xmath26 , where @xmath27 is the rotation period of the star , and @xmath28 and @xmath29 are separable functions of stellar color , @xmath30 , and age , @xmath31 , respectively .",
    "both @xmath32 and @xmath33 can be determined purely from the data . from the open cluster data ,",
    "one can show that @xmath34 .",
    "@xmath33 can be shown to be roughly skumanich @xcite , and by requiring that the solar rotation rate be reproduced at solar age , one finds that @xmath35 .",
    "the preceding considerations allow us to write the `` gyro age '' of a star as : @xmath36 @xmath37 , where @xmath38 , @xmath39 , and @xmath40 .",
    "one can also derive an error on the gyro age .",
    "the fractional error is given by @xmath41 , where @xmath42 .",
    "for late - f to early - m stars of @xmath61gyr , this works out to be @xmath615% .",
    "this method satisfies all five criteria desired for an age indicator : of finding a variable that changes regularly and sensitively with age , of being able to calibrate that variable against a very well - defined age , or set thereof , of being able to identify and measure the functional form of the variable against its dependent variables ( this one is even separable ) , of being able to invert the dependence to find the dependence of age on the other variables , and finally , of being able to calculate the error as a function of the variables .",
    "the authors thank l. hillenbrand and d. soderblom for co - chairing the session , d. soderblom and f. palla for providing closing comments at the end of the splinter session , and j. stauffer and the soc for supporting the proposed splinter session topic .",
    "amelin , y. , krot , a.  n. , hutcheon , i.  d. , & ulyanov , a.  a.  2002 , science , 297 , 1678 baraffe , i. , chabrier , g. , allard , f. , hauschildt , p.h .",
    "1998 , a&a , 337 , 403 barnes , s.  a.  2003 , , 586 , 464 bedding t.  r. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 614 , 380 bouchy f. & carrier f. 2002 , a&a , 390 , 205 brown t.  m. , et al .",
    "1994 , apj , 427 , 1013 carrier f. , bourban g. , 2003 , a&a , 406 , l23 christensen - dalsgaard j. , bedding t.  r. , kjeldsen h. , 1995 , apj , 443 , l29 dantona , f. , & mazzitelli , i.  1997 , mem .",
    "astro . it .",
    ", 68 , 807 dantona , f. , & mazzitelli , i.  1998 , aspc , 134 , 442 eggenberger p. , et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 417 , 235 gough d.  o. 1995 , aspc , 76 , 551 jeffries , r.  d.  2000 , aspc , 198 , 245 kenyon , s.  j. , & hartmann , l.  1995 , , 101 , 117 kjeldsen h. , et al .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 635 , 1281 luhman , k.  l.  1999 , , 525 , 466 miglio a. & montalbn j. 2005 , a&a , 441 , 615 palla , f. , randich , s. , flaccomio , e. , & pallavicini , r. 2005 , apj , 626 , l49 palla et al .",
    "2007 , apj , submitted roxburgh i.  w. , vorontsov s.  v. , 2003 , a&a , 411 , 215 sacco et al .",
    "2007 , a&a , in press ( astro - ph/0611880 ) siess , l. , dufour , e. , & forestini , m.  2000 , , 358 , 593 skumanich , 1972 , , 171 , 565 stauffer , j.  r.  2004 , aspc , 324 , 100 stauffer , j.  r. , hartmann , l.  w. , & barrado y navascues , d.  1995 , , 454 , 910 stauffer , j.  r. et al .",
    "2003 , , 126 , 833 tassoul , m.  1980 , , 43 , 469 thvenin f. , et al .",
    "2002 , a&a , 392 , l9 thoul a. , et al .",
    "2003 , a&a , 402 , 293 timmes , f.  x. , & arnett , d.  1999 , , 125 , 277 white , r.  j. , & hillenbrand , l.  a.  2005 , , 621 , l65 de wit , w. j. , et al .",
    "2006 , a&a , 448 , 189"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> accurate stellar ages remain one of the most poorly constrained , but most desired , astronomical quantities . here </S>",
    "<S> we briefly summarize some recent efforts to improve the stellar age scale from a subset of talks from the `` stellar ages '' splinter session at the _ </S>",
    "<S> 14th cambridge workshop on cool stars , stellar systems , and the sun_. the topics discussed include both the apparent successes and alarming discrepancies in using li depletion to age - date clusters , sources of uncertainty in ages due to input physics in evolutionary models , and recent results from asteroseismology and gyrochronology . </S>"
  ]
}