{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxy clusters have been used for decades to study the evolution of galaxies . being tracers of the largest density enhancements in the universe , they are considered the regions where galaxies formed first . at low redshift",
    "they are dominated by large early - type galaxies ( e / s0 ) , which colors are consistent with a bulk formation of their stars at high redshift .",
    "classically , it was thought that the evolution of this dominant population through different cosmological epochs was largely passive without signatures of important deviations ( ie . ,",
    "periods of more recent star formation ) .",
    "however , this simple picture has changed in the last decades . @xcite and @xcite showed an increase in the fraction of blue galaxies in clusters with redshift .",
    "high - resolution ground - based and hst images have shown that they correspond to galaxies with late - type morphologies , often disturbed or with close companions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "one observes a morphological evolution of the galaxies in clusters , in the sense that the fraction of e - type galaxies remains constant as a function of different cosmological epochs , while the fraction of s0 s increases at the expense of l - types towards lower redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the presence in clusters of a significant population of post - starburst galaxies known as `` e+a '' or `` k+a '' galaxies @xcite , indicates that star formation was active in the recent past and sharply halted at some point during the last 1 - 1.5 gyr @xcite .",
    "most of these galaxies are late type , and they show a radial distribution within the clusters that is intermediate between the passive and the emission - line galaxy populations @xcite .",
    "these results lead to the hypothesis of a two - step evolution of galaxies .",
    "a spiral galaxy is captured by the cluster and , during its infall , suffers from gas - stripping due to the tidal forces involved ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "provoked by the lack of gas , the star formation is halted , and the galaxy evolves passively , being observed as a `` k+a '' post - starburst . an initial short starburst process , previous to the gas - stripping , may be also present @xcite .",
    "after this the galaxy evolves morphologically over larger times scales .",
    "the disk dims due to the lack of a new generation of stars , that otherwise will dominate its luminosity , and the galaxy transforms itself into a lenticular galaxy .",
    "dry mergers between lenticular and spheroidal galaxies build up new large spheroidals ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* )    the proposed scenario suggests that a fraction of the observed s0 s were previously star - forming spirals . for these galaxies",
    "the star formation was truncated at some time between 2 and 5 gyr ago and it is expected that their luminosity faded by @xmath00.51.5 mag and become redder @xcite , populating the red sequence at magnitudes fainter than the brighest 1 or 2 magnitudes @xcite . the same process may affect dwarf galaxies captured by the cluster , which will suffer more strongly the effects of tidal interaction and galaxy harrasment , which induces a short but intense starburst @xcite .",
    "most of the field dwarf galaxies are gas - rich rich , blue galaxies with late - type morphologies at any redshift @xcite . once captured by the cluster , consumed or stripped of its gas ,",
    "it is expected that their luminosity fades and they become redder too , populating the faint - end of the red sequence . in both cases ones expects to find a population of red late - type galaxies , fainter than the original early - type galaxies in the cluster .",
    "however , most of the previous studies have found that late - type galaxies are mostly blue ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "to test this hypothesis , complete spectroscopic surveys of cluster galaxies and high - resolution deep images for a proper morphological analysis of the faintest possible targets are required .",
    "complete spectroscopic surveys are difficult and time consuming , due to the requirement of deblending and placing objects in the spectrograph multislits or masks .",
    "in particular , the blending of different components in the core of the clusters is a problem , impossible to handle with classical slit spectroscopy . due to that ,",
    "most of the spectroscopic surveys are based on pre - selection of the cluster candidates , most of them based on color or morphological selections ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "alternatively , they are focused on galaxies in the less crowded outer regions .",
    "these selections may affect substantially the conclusions .",
    "for these reasons we have started an observational program aimed at obtaining integral field spectroscopy ( ifs ) of the core of some of the richest galaxy clusters in the local universe , including abell 1689 ( eso 73.a-0605 ) and abell 2218 .",
    "for both of them deep hst / acs images are available .",
    "a similar approach has been used before by @xcite , to study the dynamical mass of low redshift galaxy clusters .",
    "abell 2218 is one of the richest clusters in the abell catalogue @xcite , with a richness class of 4 .",
    "it has a redshift of @xmath50.17 , and a velocity dispersion of 1370 km s@xmath6 @xcite .",
    "the cluster shows a set of arc - lenses .",
    "detailed high - resolution x - ray maps @xcite and mass - concentration studies based on the properties of the gravitational lenses have shown that the cluster has two density peaks , the strongest of them dominated by a large cd galaxy .",
    "several observational programs have provided us with a large dataset of well deblended slit spectra for the galaxies in the outer part of the cluster @xcite , as well as very good multiband ground - based and hst imaging @xcite .",
    "we focused our survey on the central arcmin region of the cluster , around the cd galaxy .",
    ".summary of the hst / acs images [ cols=\"<,^,^ , > , > , > \" , ]     uncertain values are written in italic .",
    "we determined the redshift of each detected galaxy in the field - of - view of our ifs data by comparing its spectrum with syntethic models for single stellar populations obtained from @xcite .",
    "we will describe later in detail which models were used .",
    "we manually tuned the redshift of the model matching the different absorption features , including the balmer lines ( h@xmath7 , h@xmath8 , h@xmath9 ) , the different fe and mg lines covered by our spectral range , as well as spectral features , like the 4000  break . due to the spectral resolution of our ifs data , and the signal - to - noise of our targets , we do not expect to have an accuracy better than 0.001 in the redshift determination .",
    "we derived realiable redshifts for 31 galaxies , 28 of them at the redshift of the cluster ( @xmath100.2 ) , one is a foreground galaxy ( @xmath11 ) , and other two are backgroud galaxies ( both at @xmath12 ) .",
    "table [ tab : red ] lists the derived redshifts together with the identifications shown in fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] ( that we will use throughout this paper ) and the sextractor identification listed in table [ tab : morph ] to allow for direct comparison .",
    "eleven of the 28 galaxies were studied before by @xcite .",
    "the redshifts derived from our data are coincident with the reported in this article within the expected errors ( @xmath130.001 ) .",
    "we derive new redshifts for 17 galaxies , all of them compatible with the redshift of the cluster .",
    "these new galaxies have been included in the table [ tab : morph ] . in total , the final sample of cluster members ( 28 ) is comparable with that one of previous similar studies , but with the advantage that no sample has been selected : our sample is complete within the field - of - view of our ifs data down to our detection limit . of these galaxies , only 6 have been previous studied with enough quality spectroscopy to derive the properties of their stellar populations @xcite .",
    "therefore , our sample will increase significantly our knowledge of the core of the cluster .",
    "figure [ fig : cm ] shows the rest - frame @xmath14-@xmath15 vs. m@xmath16 color - magnitude diagram for those cluster members listed in table [ tab : phot ] , derived from the hst / acs based photometric data described above .",
    "the absolute magnitudes were corrected for cosmological effects and we applied a @xmath17-correction based on the same ssp synthetic model . for each synthetic ssp model ( described below )",
    "we derived the expected @xmath14-@xmath15 colors at the average redshift of the cluster and in the rest - frame , deriving at the same time the @xmath15-band @xmath17-correction .",
    "an average relation between the observed and rest - frame colors and the @xmath17-correction was derived , and applied to the data shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : cm ] .",
    "red solid circles indicate galaxies with srsic index @xmath182.5 ( e - type ) , while green stars indicate those with @xmath191.75 ( l - type ) .",
    "orange solid squares indicate galaxies with srsic indices in between those values , corresponding to intermediate galaxies .",
    "the cd galaxy is indicated with an orange open cross , being the brightest object in the field .",
    "we prefer to label it with a different symbol since it is well known that cd galaxies do not follow a srsic profile of any index , showing a flatter and more extended light profile in the outer regions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "open circles indicate the galaxies within the field - of - view of our ifs , with redshifts listed in table [ tab : red ] .",
    "the big open square indicates the only galaxy with a high asymmetry index .      to our knowledge",
    "this is the first time that a morphologically segregated color - magnitude diagram is shown for confirmed cluster members . in previous works",
    "( e.g. smail et al . 2001 ) only cluster galaxy candidates have been shown .",
    "the morphologies , based on the srsic indices listed in table [ tab : morph ] , break down as : 11 e - type , 19 intermediate and 29 l - type . if we consider as e - type galaxies to be all the objects with @xmath181.75 , they represent only a @xmath050% of the total . for the complete subsample of galaxies covered within the ifu field - of - view ,",
    "the morphologies breaks down as : 7 e - type , 8 intermediate and 13 l - type .",
    "contrary to previous results ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) this indicates that the cluster population is not dominated by early - type galaxies , and there is an almost parity between early- and late - type galaxies .",
    "our approach to derive the morphologies is substantially different to in previous attempts , based on visual classifications .",
    "there is a considerable debate over the reliability of visual classifications of early - type galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the ability to compare them with classifications based on profile analysis , like concentration and/or srsic indices .",
    "however , since there are no previous similar studies , we must compare with the existing ones .",
    "@xcite show visual morphological classifications of 19 of their 48 cluster members , based on wfpc / hst imaging .",
    "their classification was performed by w.couch , who classified them as 8 e , 1 e / s0 , 5 s0 , 3 sb/0 , 1 sa and 1 sab .",
    "taking together all the e - type galaxies ( e , e / s0 and s0 ) , they account for a @xmath073% of the total sample .",
    "@xcite presented morphological classification for 81 cluster candidates ( 33 with confirmed redshifts ) , based on the same analysis as @xcite .",
    "their morphologies break down as : 31 e , 3 e / s0 , 28 s0 , 5 sa and 14 late - type spirals .",
    "taking together all the e - type galaxies , they account for a @xmath076% of the total sample . even taking into account the different methods used to derive the morphologies , and the difficulties to compare them ,",
    "it is clear that both @xcite and @xcite found fewer l - type galaxies than what we are finding .",
    "@xcite selected galaxies using the previously existing redshift catalogue from @xcite and defining a region in the @xmath20 colour space which was occupied by cluster members .",
    "finally , only galaxies brighter than @xmath218.8 mag were targeted by their spectroscopic survey .",
    "although it was claimed that this selection places negligible restrictions on the stellar populations of the selected galaxies , and was made with the aim of rejecting the majority of background galaxies , it may have had an effect on the morphological segregation .",
    "the brightness cut in the @xmath21-band implies that all the observed galaxies are brighter than @xmath22 - 19.5 mag , asuming an average @xmath23 color of @xmath01.5 mag @xcite .",
    "if we apply such a cut in our sample ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : cm ] ) , the morphologies break down as : 9 ( 7 ) e - type , 14 ( 5 ) s0 s and 11 ( 2 ) l - type for the full ( ifu ) sample .",
    "this means a fraction of @xmath068% ( 86% ) of e - type galaxies , in agreement with the results from @xcite .",
    "therefore , although visual classifications are not fully reproductible and may produce discrepancies in the morphological classification of individual objects , they agree with those ones based on srsic indices on a statistical base .",
    "@xcite selected 81 cluster candidates based on a deep @xmath24-band survey ( @xmath2519 mag ) , discarding those objects with clear stellar morphology , in too crowded areas and/or showing lensed morphologies . assuming a @xmath26 color of @xmath03 mag for the reddest objects , based on their own results for @xmath27 and an average @xmath28 color of @xmath00.5 mag @xcite , they selected galaxies brighter than @xmath2922 mag , a limiting magnitude similar to that of our ifu data . therefore , a difference in the depth of both surveys is not the reason for the differences in the morphological segregation .",
    "we matched their cluster candidate sample with our full sample ( listed in table [ tab : morph ] ) , finding 39 coincidences .",
    "for this subsample of confirmed cluster members the morphological segregation based on their analysis remains similar , with a @xmath082% of e - type galaxies .",
    "therefore , possible contaminations from non cluster members are not the cause of the discrepancy .",
    "we examined the srsic indices of those 32 e - type galaxies .",
    "of them , 10 have srsic indices lower than @xmath191.75 , being l - type galaxies following our scheme , and only 7 have @xmath182.5 .",
    "thus , the discrepancy is most probably due to the different criteria adopted for classifing the objects , illustrating the risks of direct comparisons between both methods . statistically speaking visual classification",
    "gives the same distribution of galaxy types as profile fitting : on average , their e - type galaxies have larger srsic indices ( @xmath302.6 ) than their l - type ones ( @xmath301.7 ) .",
    "however , it is well known that one - to - one cross - checking both methods give different results ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and profile analysis produces a more realiable and objetive scheme for classifying objects .",
    "-@xmath15 color distribution as a function of absolute magnitude m@xmath16 for those cluster members listed in table [ tab : phot ] .",
    "red solid circles indicate galaxies with srsic index @xmath182.5 ( e - type ) , while green stars correspond to objects with with @xmath191.75 ( l - type ) .",
    "orange solid squares indicate lenticular galaxies , with srsic indices in between both values . the cd galaxy is indicated with an orange open cross , being the brightest object in the field .",
    "open circles indicate the 28 galaxies within the field - of - view of our ifs .",
    "the big open square indicates the only galaxy with a high asymmetry index.,width=302 ]      the color - magnitude ( cm ) diagram contains extremly useful information to understand the nature of the cluster population .",
    "the @xmath31 color is related to both age ( strongly ) and metallicity ( weakly ) of the dominant stellar population of the galaxy . on the other hand",
    ", the @xmath15-band absolute magnitude can be related to the stellar mass .",
    "figure [ fig : cm ] shows a bimodal distribution of early- and late - type galaxies in the cm diagram .",
    "e - type galaxies are ( mostly ) located in the brighter end of the distribution ( no one is fainter than m@xmath3220.5 mag ) , covering a narrow range of colors ( 1.9@xmath332.2 ) .",
    "this is a well known feature of early type galaxies in clusters and it has been used for decades to select cluster candidates ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and to trace the evolution of the older population of cluster galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "on the other hand , l - type galaxies are distributed across a wide range of magnitudes with the brightests almost as red as the early type galaxies , and the faintests bluer and covering a wider range of colors . for galaxies brighter than m@xmath34 mag",
    "there are no significant differences between the core members ( galaxies in the ifu field - of - view ) , and the rest of the galaxies of the sample . for galaxies fainter than m@xmath35",
    ", it is found that the cluster core galaxies cover a wider range of colors , with more red galaxies .",
    "however , this difference may be due to a selection effect of the galaxy samples obtained from the literature . as indicated in section 4.3 two of the 29 galaxies classified as l - type",
    "could be spheroidals on the basis of a visual inspection of the hst / acs images .",
    "both of them have red colors , @xmath360.9 mag .",
    "however they are not the redder l - type galaxies in their magnitude range .",
    "it is interesting to note here the location of the galaxy number 38 ( ifu@xmath37 ) , the only one showing a high asymmetry , being the bluest galaxy of our sample .",
    "this galaxy , at the east in fig . 2 and 3 ,",
    "is clearly identified as a merger in its lastest stages , showing a clear tail to the south - west .",
    "its spectrum , fig .",
    "[ fig : spec ] , shows strong h@xmath7 , [ oiii]4959,5007 and h@xmath38 emission lines and weaker [ nii]6548,6584 , indicating a large amount of star formation .",
    "its blue colors and spectrum also indicate the presence of an extremely young stellar population , far away from the global trend of the rest of the cluster members , as we will discuss below .",
    "contrary to what is expected this galaxy is just at the nominal redshift of the cluster ( @xmath39 , based on the emission lines ) , and considering its projected distance to the cluster center ( assumed to be the cd ) , it is not likely to be a fly - by object . to our knowledge",
    "it has escaped the attemption of previous studies , most probably because its morphology and color automatically exclude it as a cluster candidate .",
    "our ifu data lack the required spatial and spectral resolution to perform a more detail study of its properties .",
    "a brief comparison of the color - magnitude distribution of the different kind of galaxies in the cluster , segregated by their morphology , indicates that e - type galaxies are more massive and have older and more metal rich stellar populations .",
    "l - type galaxies cover a wider range of masses , ages and metallicities , with the more massive ones being similar to the e - type galaxies , and the less massive ones younger and metal poorer .",
    "this result indicates that a bulk star formation process at high redshift may not be the unique mechanism to explain the population of the galaxies in the cluster .",
    "we will investigate it further in the next sections .     and mg@xmath40 line indices .",
    "the plot shows a detail of the spectrum of the galaxy number 2 ( ifu@xmath37 ) , zoomed in onto the region of interest . for each absorption line the boxes",
    "indicate the regions were the adjacent continuum are estimated ( blue and red boxes ) together with the region where the absorption is measured .",
    "the orange line indicates the adopted slope for the continuum .",
    "the strong feature at 5577  is the residual of the non perfect subtraction of a night sky emission line .",
    ", width=302 ]      we obtained spectra of the individual galaxies in the cluster with the aim of comparing their global spectroscopic properties with their morphological ones in a relative way , ie . , only within the cluster .",
    "it is well known that the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) of simple stellar populations ( chemically homogeneous and coeval stellar systems ) depends on a set of first principles ( e.g. , initial mass function , star formation rate , stellar isochrones , element abundance ratios ) , to make it possible to generate synthetic stellar populations from them .",
    "this technique , known as evolutionary synthesis modeling ( e.g. tinsley 1980 ) , has been widely used to unveil the stellar population content of galaxies by reconciling the observed spectral energy distributions with those predicted by the theoretical framework . unfortunately the variation of different physical quantities governing the evolution of stellar populations produce similar effects in the integrated light of those systems , leading to a situation in which the observational data is affected by undesirable degeneracies , like the widely mentioned one between age and metallicity ( e.g. oconnell 1976 ; aaronson et al .",
    "1978 , worthey 1994a ) .",
    "the most widely used technique to compare galaxies with models is to measure certain line strength indices , on the lick / ids index system ( burstein et al . 1984 ; faber et al . 1985 ; burstein , faber & gonzlez 1986 ; gorgas et al .",
    "1993 ; worthey et al .",
    "people generally try to use a combination of indices that are most orthogonal in parameter space ( e.g. age and metallicity ; although see cardiel et al .",
    "2003 for a discussion of the impact of random errors in the selection of the best combination of indices ) . following the lick / ids definitions , for our study we have chosen h@xmath7 as a primary age indicator , and the mgb index as a metallicity indicator .",
    "we use the mg@xmath40 index rather than the more conventional [ mgfe ] one , because both we and @xcite are unable to derive realiable fe indices for most of the galaxies .",
    "this diagram has the drawback that the models based on solar abundance ratios do not match the mg / fe ratio observed in early - type galaxies @xcite .",
    "it is also well known that the ages derived from the grid are clearly uncertain in an absolute sense .",
    "however , we are primarily interested in a relative comparison of the ages and metallicities of the galaxies in the cluster , and in this sense the diagram is valid .",
    "as we will discuss below , a proper estimate of those indices requires high signal - to - noise spectra , and may be strongly affected by the instrumental and systemic velocity dispersions , the presence of weak emission lines that fill the absorptions ( specially important in the case of h@xmath7 ) , and the presence of high residuals corresponding to the removal of nearby sky emission lines .",
    "as a primary age indicator and mg@xmath40 as a metallicity indicator .",
    "the symbols are similar to those ones in fig.[fig : cm ] .",
    "overplotted is a grid of ssp models from worthey ( 1994b ) .",
    "horizontal lines follow constant age ( gyr ) , vertical lines constant metallicity ( [ m / h ] ) .",
    "each line is labeled with its corresponding age / metallicity.,width=302 ]      we derive the h@xmath7 and mg@xmath40 equivalent widths for our ifu sample using the bandpass definitions from the lick index system revised by @xcite , shifted to the redshift of each object .",
    "we used our own routines and checked the results with indexf .",
    "figure [ fig : get ] illustrates the procedure , showing a detail of the spectrum of galaxy number 2 and the actual bandwidths used to derive each of the indices .",
    "the derived results are listed in table [ tab : red ] , together with the error estimates ( computed as explained below ) .",
    "we only list the positive values , since a negative equivalent width means emission , and not absorption . in most of the cases",
    "these negative values are found in faint targets , and are simply due to low signal - to - noise of the spectra .",
    "however , in a few cases they indicate real emission lines , like the strong emission lines of galaxy number 38 ( the merger ) or fainter ones , like in galaxies numbers 18 and 22 .",
    "in these three cases it is possible to derive realiable mg@xmath40 indices , but unreliable h@xmath7 ones . on the other hand ,",
    "there are a few objects ( 16 , 20 , 21 and 25 ) , with too low mg@xmath40 equivalent widths for their h@xmath7 ones .",
    "a visual inspection of their spectra , and a trace back to the raw data shows that they show cross - talk contamination from thar emission lines obtained in adjacent calibration fibers , which unfortunally lies in the regime of the mg@xmath40 absorption . for other four galaxies ( number 1 , 7 , 8 and 15 ) both h@xmath7 and mg@xmath40 seem to be too low .",
    "galaxy number 1 is the cd , a kind of galaxy with well known deviations of the metacillity sensitive indices ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a visual inspection of its spectrum in the h@xmath7 region indicates possible emission that fill the absorption .",
    "a similar inspection of the spectra of galaxies number 7 and 8 shows clear contaminations of sky emission line residuals in the adjacent regions to the h@xmath7 absorption band .",
    "finally , galaxy number 15 has an uncertain redshift determination , which strongly affects the derived indices .",
    "all these objects have been excluded from further analysis based on line indices . of the 6 galaxies in common with @xcite , 5 have line - strength indices in common .",
    "in both cases , the strengths of h@xmath7 and mg@xmath40 agree within @xmath410.6 , which is far beyond the estimated errors of both studies .",
    "however such differences are expected on the basis of the different methods used to derive the strength of the line indices that may strongly affect the results .",
    "we estimated the errors using monte carlo simulations of each spectrum , in the following way : first we derive for each spectrum the best matched single stellar population model , as we will describe in the next section .",
    "this model is included in fig .",
    "[ fig : spec ] .",
    "then , we substract the model from the spectrum , and derive the absolute value of the difference for each wavelength .",
    "finally , we smooth this _ residual _ spectrum with a 10 pixels width median - box filtering .",
    "this smoothing was performed to reproduce as much as possible the noise cross - correlation pattern between adjacent pixels .",
    "the width was selected to match the spectral resolution , since we consider that this is the range of pixels where the cross - correlation of the noise is stronger .",
    "we consider that this rather complex method to estimate the errors is a better representation of the variance than the much simplier approach that would be to create a variance spectrum based on the estimated accuracy of our spectrophotometry ( sec . 2.1 and appendix b ) .",
    "the reason for that is that using this latter approach we would not take local effects in the variance , like unperfections in the sky subtraction , cross - talk contaminations and unaccuracies on the reduction process . using the adopted _ variance _ and our original spectrum we created 100 simulated spectra .",
    "the standard - deviation of the resulting equivalent widths are assumed to be the errors of our measurements .",
    "line indices , for galaxies with velocity dispersions larger than 200 km / s ( derived from the fitting to ssp models , as described below ) , are finally corrected as in jablonka , gorgas and goudfrooij ( 2002 ) by using similar coefficients ( jablonka , private communication ) .",
    "the final useful dataset comprises line indices for 26 objects , 12 of them corresponding to our ifu sample .",
    "figure [ fig : hb_mg ] shows the age - metallicity diagnostic diagram using h@xmath7 as a primary age indicator and mg@xmath40 as a metallicity indicator .",
    "the symbols are similar to those in fig.[fig : cm ] , including both our determined equivalent widths and those obtained by @xcite .",
    "overplotted is a grid of ssp models from @xcite .",
    "horizontal lines follow constant age , vertical lines constant metallicity . even though there are in the literature more recent evolutionary synthesis model predictions suitable for our purposes ( e.g. bruzual & charlot 2003 , vazdekis et al .",
    "2003 , thomas , maraston & kron 2004 ) , here we are using the classical worthey ( 1994b ) models because we are just interested in a differential analysis of our data ( i.e. the absolute derived ages and metallicities should not be taken literally ) and we can perform a direct comparison with the results published by ziegler et al .",
    "( 2001 ) . @xcite",
    "already noticed that e - type galaxies in this cluster cover a wide range of parameters within fig [ fig : hb_mg ] , much wider than similar samples in the local universe ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we confirm this conclusion , since the new galaxies have increased the range of covered parameters .",
    "the bulk of the galaxies show lower metallicities and younger ages at a fixed metallicity compared to the ones in the local universe .",
    "they suggested that these differences may be due to variations in the average masses of the two galaxy samples , in the sense that more massive galaxies tend to be older .",
    "the @xcite sample lacks enough l - type galaxies to draw a clear conclusion on the dependence of these parameters on the morphology . with the new sample it is possible to see that l - type galaxies are found towards younger ages , on average , than e - type galaxies at any fixed metallicity .",
    "on the other hand they seem to cover the same range of metallicities at any fixed age .",
    "these conclusions have to be taken with care , since most of our l - type galaxies are , at the same time , less luminous and therefore less massive than our e - type ones ( fig .",
    "[ fig : cm ] ) . therefore",
    ", if there is a correlation between the age and the mass , as suggested by @xcite , this trend may affect both the e - type and the l - type galaxies , and explain our results .",
    "we will further investigate this possibility below .",
    "@xcite already showed how sensitive the derivation of physical parameters from line indices is to the signal - to - noise of the spectra .",
    "they concluded that using the full spectrum , when possible , one can derive better parameters , for a similar signal - to - noise . in the previous section",
    "we have seen that even for high signal - to - noise spectra local contaminations from emission lines , both from the object and/or residuals from the sky or cross - talk from calibration fibers can strongly affect the derived indices .    to extract the maximum information for the maximum number of objects we fitted each spectrum from our ifu sample with synthetic ssp models .",
    "models were created using the gissel code @xcite , assuming a @xcite imf ( the use of a @xcite will not modify the results ) , for different ages and metallicities .",
    "we create 72 models covering a discrete grid of 12 ages ( 5 myr , 25 myr , 100 myr , 290 myr , 640 myr , 0.9 gyr , 1.4 gyr , 2.5 gyr , 5 gyr , 11 gyr , 13 gyr , and 17 gyr ) , and 6 metallicities ( @xmath420.0001 , 0.0004 , 0.004 , 0.008 , 0.02 and 0.05 ) .",
    "each spectrum was then fitted to each of the 72 models using fit3d @xcite .",
    "this code resamples the model to the resolution of the data , convolve it with a certain velocity dispersion , shift it to the redshift of the target and scale it to match the dataset by a @xmath43 minimization scheme .",
    "therefore , for each ssp model , these are the three free parameters in the fitting process : velocity dispersion , redshift and a scaling factor related to the luminosity .",
    "the redshift of the object was fixed to reduce the degrees of freedom .",
    "only the spectral region at wavelengths bluer than 7200   was used in this analysis . at redder wavelengths",
    "the strong night sky emission - lines and the telluric absorptions have not properly been corrected for in our reduction process , and strong residuals are seen in the spectra .",
    "wavelength regions possibly affected by imperfect sky emission line subtraction were also masked .",
    "we derived the velocity dispersions for each object spectrum in the fitting process , including both the instrinsic and instrumental ones .",
    "we can not perform an accurate correction of the instrumental effects cause we lack of the proper comparison observations of velocity calibration stars during the night .",
    "this prevents us to use them as a mass indicator ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , using them only to correct the line - indices strength , when required .",
    "the corrected valocity dispersions range between @xmath0100 - 400 km s@xmath6 , and despite the lack of accuracy of our derived velocity dispersions they agree with the ones derived by @xcite , for the 6 objects in common .",
    "derived from the fitting of a single galaxy spectrum to a grid of ssp models of different ages and metallicities .",
    "dark colors indicate lower @xmath43 ( ie . , better fits ) , while light colors indicate higher vales ( ie . , worse fits ) .",
    "the @xmath43 of the four best fits are labeled .",
    "the plotted example corresponds to the second brightest galaxy in our field - of - view ( id=2 in table [ tab : red]),width=302 ]    we obtain for each spectrum a grid of 72 @xmath43 , each one corresponding to an age - metallicity pair model .",
    "figure [ fig : fit ] illustrates the result of the fitting technique .",
    "it shows a greyscale of the @xmath43 map derived after fitting the spectrum of galaxy number 2 to the grid of models , each one corresponding to an age - metallicity pair .",
    "similar results are found for the rest of the objects . in the fitting procedure we assumed a simple root - mean - square of the flux as an estimation of the uncertainties in the spectra , to derive the @xmath43",
    ". therefore these values are not valid to compare the results of the fit for different objects , and just to perform internal comparisons between the results of the fit for the same object .",
    "the @xmath43 of the four best fits are indicated in the figure . in general it",
    "is not possible to distinguish which is the best fitting model among the best four ones .",
    "therefore , we estimate the age and metallicity of each object by averaging the ages and metallicities of the four best models , weighted by the inverse of the corresponding @xmath43 values",
    ". errors for the estimated parameters are derived by monte carlo simulations : for each spectrum we estimate the _ variance _ spectrum as described above .",
    "then we created 30 simulated spectra , using as input the original spectrum and adding noise following the estimated _",
    "variance_. for each of the 30 simulated spectra we run the fitting process over the 72 models ( i.e. , 2160 fits per input spectrum ) , and the age and metallicity are derived following the recipe described above .",
    "the standard deviation of the recovered distribution of ages and metallicities for the simulated spectra is considered as a good estimate of the error of the measured parameters for the input spectrum .",
    "the final errors for the ages and metallicities are computed coadding quadratically these estimated errors to the standard deviation of the values for the four best models .",
    "the results from this procedure are listed in table [ tab : red ] .",
    "the method relies on certain assumptions : ( i ) we consider that the use of the full spectrum is a better method to recover the age and the metallicity of the main stellar population than just using the line indices and ( ii ) we consider that our spectrophotometric calibration is stable from blue - to - red , i.e. , that the shape of the spectra is well recovered .",
    "this is a sensitive assumption , since the whole method relies on it . to test its validity",
    "we compared our integrated spectra with the available broad - band photometry ( fig .",
    "[ fig : spec ] ) .",
    "the photometric dataset , derived from the hst / acs data , covers the full optical wavelength range , from @xmath04700  to @xmath09000 , and in particular the wavelength range of our spectroscopic data . in most of the cases",
    "our spectroscopic data match pretty well with the broad - band photometric ones .",
    "even more , the extrapolation of the data using the best fitted ssp synthetic model reproduces also the expected photometry in wavelength ranges not covered by our spectroscopic data in most of the cases .",
    "only galaxies number 9 , 11 , 16 , 18 , 22 and 24 show a slight missmatch ( @xmath02@xmath44 ) between the extrapolated flux and the z@xmath45-band photometry .",
    "if we take into account that the spectrophotometry seems to match for the rest of the bands and for the rest of the objects , we have strong arguments to consider that is also valid for thes ones : we used an ifu , and therefore the flux calibration was performed only once for the full dataset .",
    "finally we assume that ( iii ) the adopted grid of models comprises a good representation of the expected stellar populations .",
    "we tried not to pre - judge the composition of the stellar population and cover the wider possible range of ages and metallicities . on the other hand",
    ", we must limit the number of input models for a reasonable performance of the fitting procedure .",
    "this imposes limitations on the sampling of the grid , and therefore , in the accuracy of the recovered age and metallicities .",
    "we must take that into account when drawing conclusions from our modelling .",
    "figure [ fig : age_met ] shows the distribution of the metallicities as a function of age derived using the previously described fitting procedure for the galaxies in our ifu sample .",
    "the symbols are similar to the ones in fig.[fig : cm ] .",
    "the size of the symbols indicates the mass ( see below for a description of how it was estimated ) , with larger symbols for more massive objects .",
    "the merging galaxy ( ifu@xmath4638 ) , is not visible in this plot , since the derived age for its stellar population , @xmath0250myr , is far from the average of the rest of the sample .",
    "this result is expected due its @xmath31 color , and the strong star formation process that is derived from the strength of the emission lines on its spectrum . in this particular case",
    "a ssp model is not a good enough to describe the expected mix of populations resulting from a merging process , with at least an underlying stellar population , and a younger one resulting from the induced star formation process .    if we compare this figure with the h@xmath7-mg@xmath40 distribution shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : hb_mg ] evident differences can be seen . however , a direct comparison has to be done with care .",
    "first , the absolute ages and metallicities derived from both figures can not be compared , since they come from completely different ssp models .",
    "we used the @xcite models in the previous figure to be consistent with @xcite , while the models used in the fitting procedure are derived from the gissel code @xcite .",
    "however , relative comparisons between the different galaxies are possible , in principle .",
    "one needs to take into account that in fig.[fig : hb_mg ] we only represent 12 of the 27 objects shown in the current plot , i.e. , mostly the brightest ones . on the other hand ,",
    "the objects from @xcite are not plotted in the current figure . however , the conclusions about the stellar populations of individual galaxies derived from both figures agree qualitatively : the galaxies with young and old stellar populations have young and old stellar populations in both figures , and the galaxies richer and poorer in metals are richer and poorer in both figures too .    . the size of the symbols indicate the mass , with larger symbols for more massive objects .",
    "all the e - type galaxies ( @xmath182.5 ) , and most of the @xmath47 ones have stellar populations older than @xmath09 gyr and a wide range of metallicities , @xmath48.,width=302 ]    we consider the current figure a more accurate representation of the real distribution of ages and metallicities of the galaxies in the cluster ( or at least in the core ) .",
    "the plotted parameters were derived for the ifu sample , which is complete to our detection limit , without any pre - selection and any _ a posteriori _ exclusion . in general",
    "it is found that the galaxies with older stellar populations covers a wider range in metallicities , being more metal rich , on average , than the galaxies with younger stellar populations .",
    "this result does not agree with the trend between these two parameter found in field ellipticals , where galaxies with younger stellar populations are more metal rich ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "however , our sample comprises a large fraction of l - type galaxies . as in fig",
    "[ fig : cm ] we found a clear different behaviour for the e - type and l - type galaxies .",
    "all the e - type galaxies with @xmath182.5 ( spheroidals ) , and most of the @xmath47 ones ( intermediate galaxies ) have stellar populations older than @xmath09 gyr , covering a wide range of metallicities , @xmath48 . on the other hand , the l - type galaxies ( @xmath49 ) , cover a much wider range of ages , from @xmath03 gyr to @xmath013 gyr ( keeping in mind that the absolute ages have no meaning ) , and metallicities , @xmath50 .",
    "interestingly , the l - type galaxies with the largest metallicities ( @xmath510.015 ) seems to have similar ages as the e - type ones , and the l - type galaxies with smaller metallicities cover a wider range of ages .",
    "the most metal rich galaxies are the more massive ones ( with larger symbols ) , and therefore , this result may indicate that more massive galaxies tend to be older whatever their morphologies .",
    "we will discuss that in detail below .",
    "this result is certainly not clear from fig.[fig : hb_mg ] .          in previous sections",
    "we have already seen that the masses of the galaxies are directly related to the nature of their stellar populations . the color - magnitude diagram , fig .",
    "[ fig : cm ] , shows that less luminous ( and massive ) galaxies show a wider range of colors than more luminous objects .",
    "the comparison of the h@xmath7-mg@xmath40 distribution of this cluster with that of the local universe , including more massive galaxies , makes @xcite think that there might be a trend of metallicities / ages with the mass of the objects .",
    "figure [ fig : age_met ] shows that more massive galaxies are , on average , older and more metal rich .",
    "we investigate here the possible relations between the stellar populations and the morphology with the mass of the galaxies .    .",
    "there is a clear morphological segregation .",
    "l - type galaxes are less massive than 10@xmath52 m@xmath53 , and have a wider range of ages than e - type galaxies.,width=302 ]    it is well known that the masses of spheroidal or early - type galaxies are directly related to their stellar velocity dispersions ( @xmath44 ) , due to their nature .",
    "this parameter , directly accesible from the spectra , has indeed been used as a mass indicator for decades , leading to a set of well establish scaling relations when comparing it with different properties of the galaxies . among these relations",
    "the most important ones are the luminosity - velocity dispersion relation or faber - jackson relation @xcite , the surface brightness , effective radius and velocity dispersion relation or fundamental plane @xcite and the mg - velocity dispersion relation or mg@xmath40-@xmath44 relation @xcite .",
    "these scaling relations have been used to compare between different populations of early - type galaxies at different redshifts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , to trace the evolution of this kind of galaxies . for late - type galaxies similar relations",
    "are found when using the maximum rotating velocity , a parameter directly related with the mass of the rotating disk .",
    "all these relations have a direct correspondence with relations between the mass and the different properties of the galaxies : the faber - jackson relation can be understood as a luminosity - mass relation , the fundamental plane as a mass - scale relation and the mg-@xmath44 as a metallicity - mass relation .",
    "our spectroscopic data lack the required resolution and signal - to - noise for a proper determination of the velocity dispersion for most of the galaxies , therefore , we prefer to investigate these relations using the stellar masses of the galaxies .",
    "this approach has the advantage that we can explore at the same time all the galaxies of the sample independent of their morphology .",
    "we estimate the stellar masses using the average relation found by @xcite between the @xmath54 for the @xmath14-band luminosity and the @xmath31 color . for doing that we derive the rest - frame @xmath31 colors of our objects using the best fitted ssp model described before , synthesizing the magnitudes by convolving the model with the filter responses , and obtaining the @xmath14-band absolute magnitude from our photometric data .",
    "it is important to note that the masses of @xcite are just relative values , calibrated under the assumption that spiral galaxies are in a maximum - disk situation .",
    "however , this will not affect our results since we are interested in relative comparisons between different families of galaxies .",
    "the derived masses are listed in table [ tab : red ] .",
    "the errors listed in the table were derived from the photometric errors in the @xmath14-band magnitudes listed in in table [ tab : phot ] , and they do not include any other possible source of error ( like the unaccuracy of the fitting process or the derived synthetic colors ) .",
    "however , we consider that this error dominates any other possible one .",
    "the masses of the objects range between @xmath010@xmath55 and @xmath010@xmath56 m@xmath53 , being the cd galaxy the most massive galaxy and the merging galaxy the least massive one .    .",
    "there is a clear trend in the sense that e - type galaxies are more massive than l - type ones.,width=302 ]      figure [ fig : age_mass ] shows the age distribution as a function of stellar masses for the galaxies of our ifu sample .",
    "the symbols are similar to those in fig.[fig : cm ] .",
    "the division of galaxies in terms of morphologies is remarkably similar to that of the color - magnitude relation ( fig.[fig : cm ] ) , although in the current plot the segregation between early- and late - type galaxies is much stronger .",
    "most of the e - type galaxies ( @xmath47 ) and all the ones with @xmath57 are more massive than @xmath07 10@xmath58 m@xmath53 and have stellar populations older than @xmath09 gyr . on the other hand ,",
    "all the l - type galaxies are less massive than this limit , and the ages of their stellar populations spread towards younger ages .",
    "there is no obvious trend of age with mass , but there is a lack of young stellar populations in massive galaxies . since all of them are e - type ones , it is not possible to know if this deficit is due to the mass or the morphology of the galaxies .",
    "however such a trend it is expected , at least for field early - type galaxies . recently @xcite reported a trend between the age and the mass for field early - type galaxies based on data from the sauron project @xcite .",
    "figure [ fig : nser_mass ] illustrates this effect .",
    "it shows the distribution of srsic indices as a function of the stellar masses for the galaxies of our ifu sample .",
    "the symbols are similar to those in fig.[fig : cm ] .",
    "there is a strong correlation between both parameters , in the sence that e - type galaxies are massive and l - type ones less massive .",
    "the relation is clearer when masking the cd and the merger galaxies , for which the profiles are not well represented by the adopted model .",
    "similar results were already presented by @xcite for the early - type galaxies of a2218 in the outer regions .",
    "they compared the h@xmath7 index with the stellar velocity dispersion finding that the fainter galaxies shows a larger scatter in their h@xmath7 values , indicating a wide range of star formation histories .",
    "our survey goes deeper , sampling galaxies much fainter ( and less massive ) that those ones studied by @xcite , extending their conclusions to fainter regimes .",
    "as we pointed out above , the mg@xmath40-@xmath44 relation can be understood as a metallicity - mass relation .",
    "figure [ fig : met_mass ] shows the distribution of the metallicities as a function of the stellar mass for the galaxies of our ifu sample .",
    "the symbols are similar to those ones in fig.[fig : cm ] .",
    "as expected there is a clear correlation between both parameters ( @xmath590.997,@xmath6099.99% ) , in the sense that massive galaxies of any kind are more metal rich than less massive ones .",
    "a similar result is found when using the mass derived by the fitting to ssp synthetic models , instead of the adopted one , based on the bell & de jong ( 2001 ) relation .",
    "although the result is not surprising for the e - type galaxies , it is interesting that the l - type galaxies follow a similar relation , but with an offset .",
    "the trend between metallicity and mass seems to be universal for any kind of galaxy , despite of its morphology .",
    "however , for any fixed mass the l - type galaxies seem to be more metal rich than the e - type ones .",
    "this effect is not due to a difference in age of the stellar populations , since at equal age we observe a considerable range in metallicity .",
    "however , our sample is too reduced to draw firm conclusions .    .",
    "there is a clear correlation between both parameters , in the sense that more massive galaxies are more metal rich than less massive ones.,width=302 ]",
    "the galaxy population of clusters in the local universe are dominated by early - type galaxies ( e s and bulge - dominated spirals ) @xcite , with a reduced fraction of late - type galaxies ( spirals , irregulars and mergers ) .",
    "there is a general agreement about the ages of the stellar populations in early - type cluster galaxies .",
    "it is well known that they show a strong color - magnitude relation at various redshifts consistents with passive evolution of stellar populations that formed at @xmath612 - 3 , with an slope due to the mass - metallicity relation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the spectrocopic features and the scaling relations , like the fundamental - plane , the mass - to - light ratio , the mg@xmath40-@xmath44 and the faber - jackson relations , explored at different redshift are also consistent with passive evolution of an old stellar population ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , this apparently simple scenario for the evolution of early - type galaxies in clusters needs to be contrasted with another results .",
    "@xcite show that there is a substantial morphological evolution in clusters : as the redshift decreases the s0 population tends to grow at the expense of spiral population , whereas the frequency of spheroidals remains almost constant .",
    "therefore the population of early - type galaxies observed in distant clusters does not necessarily comprise all the early - type galaxies existing at @xmath62=0 @xcite . on the other hand , the blue galaxies observed in distant clusters , responsible of the butcher - oemler effect , must largely become red and fainter .",
    "there is strong evidence for a quenching of star formation in galaxies as a consequence of the infall in the cluster dense regions @xcite , although a previous starburst may be also present @xcite . for galaxies with a star formation history typical of l - type ,",
    "once truncated , it is expected that they become redder and fade by 0.5 - 1.5 mag in @xmath02 - 5 gyr @xcite . finally ,",
    "although the spectrophotometric and the morphological evolution seems to be largely decoupled , it is expected that after longer timescales there will a morphological transformation from pure l - type to bulge - dominated spirals @xcite .",
    "all these results suggest that the early - type galaxies in clusters are composed of a mix of different stellar populations , with very different origins , contrary to the simple scenario drawn above .",
    "how do our results compare with previous knowledge of the evolution of galaxies in clusters ?",
    "the morphological distribution of the cluster members derived from our analysis is : 11 ( 7 ) e - type , 19 ( 8) lenticulars , and 29 ( 13 ) l - type , for our complete sample ( our ifu sample ) . in percentages",
    "it is : 19% ( 25% ) e - type , 32% ( 29% ) lenticulars and 49% ( 46% ) l - type .",
    "these fractions differ strongly with the estimated ones for clusters at similar redshifts : 30% e - type , 50% lenticulars and 20% l - type @xcite , showing a much larger fraction of late - type galaxies .",
    "@xcite estimated these numbers based on images with limiting magnitudes of the order of @xmath6320.2 - 20.5 mag , i.e. @xmath01.5 - 2 mag less deep than our current survey ( taking into account the range of possible @xmath64 colors for any kind of galaxy at this redshift , from @xmath00 mag to @xmath00.6 mag , * ? ? ?",
    "if we consider only the objects brighter than @xmath6520 mag , the new morphological segregation is : 9 ( 7 ) e - type , 16 ( 7 ) lenticulars and 16 ( 4 ) l - type .",
    "these percentages are within the values reported by @xcite : 22% ( 39% ) e - type , 39% ( 39% ) lenticulars and 39% ( 22% ) l - type .",
    "therefore , there is an increase of the fraction of late - type galaxies at fainter magnitude regimes .",
    "looking at figures [ fig : cm ] and [ fig : age_mass ] it is possible to identify two kind of l - type galaxies in the faint magnitude regime : ( i ) a group of blue and faint galaxies , with young stellar populations ( @xmath668 gyr ) , and ( ii ) another group of red and faint galaxies , with older stellar populations ( @xmath678 gyr ) .",
    "the first ones are the kind of galaxies responsible for the butcher - oemler effect .",
    "galaxies recently captured by the cluster , with relatively young stellar populations and traces of recent star formation processes . due to their colors",
    "these galaxies would be detected in surveys in the optical / blue bands .",
    "the second group are the kind of galaxies predicted in the two - steps evolution hypothesis for galaxies captured by clusters , where the star formation was quenched first , and then there was a slower morphological transformation @xcite .",
    "as a first step the late - type galaxies fall into the cluster , and due to gas stripping the star formation process is abruptly interupted ( maybe after a short starburst process )",
    ". then , these galaxies become fainter and redder , while still showing a spiral shape .",
    "clusters with the highest fraction of blue galaxies shows signs of recent mergers , and there are larger fractions of starforming galaxies in substructured than in relaxed clusters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "theoretical simulations predict that the cluster mergers induces a starburst processes , due to the strong tidal forces involved ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a similar effect of galaxy - galaxy interactions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "abell 2218 shows two clear peaks in the x - ray and galaxies distribution @xcite , indicating that it most probably has suffered a recent ( or ongoing ) merging .",
    "this may account for the moderate butcher - oemler fraction of blue galaxies quoted in classical studies ( @xmath010% * ? ? ?",
    "galaxies captured by the cluster may suffer similar tidal forces , which may induce an enhancement of the star formation process , previous to the quenching due to gas stripping @xcite .",
    "the location of the k+a ( post - starburst ) galaxies , and the strength of their balmer absorption features strongly supports this hyphotesis @xcite . to our knowledge , abell 2218 is the only cluster at cosmological distances where hi is observed in emission @xcite , at the location of a spiral galaxy in the outer regions of the cluster .",
    "this galaxy is most probably an infalling spiral , consuming its gas reservoir with ongoing star formation ( estimated sfr of @xmath661.4 m@xmath68/yr ) .",
    "more spectacular is galaxy number 38 from our ifu sample , a blue disrupted galaxy at the nominal redshift of the cluster with a very little projected distance from the center of the cluster .",
    "it is possible that this galaxy has been recently captured by the cluster , and that it is moving in an orbit perpendicular to the line - of - sight . if not , there should be a conspirancy between its cosmological redshift and line - of - sight velocity to compensate each other so that it appears to be at the nominal redshift of the cluster , which is an unlikely explanation .",
    "its emission lines indicate a moderate amount of ongoing star formation , with a sfr@xmath06 m@xmath68/yr , derived from the h@xmath38 emission @xcite .",
    "no dust is derived from the h@xmath38/h@xmath69 ratio , @xmath02.9 , nearly the nominal value for case b recombination .",
    "its dominant stellar population has an age of @xmath0250myr , which could be a feasible time - scale for the infall process .",
    "its morphology is similar to that one of a merger in its last stage , however , the strong tidal forces that may suffer during the infalling process may have produce the same effect .",
    "if the proposed scenario for the evolution of galaxies in cluster is true , this galaxy would be a good candidate for a progenitor of the observed k+a galaxies at low - redshift @xcite .",
    "in a recent study of abell 2125 , a dense cluster at @xmath50.247 , @xcite found a galaxy with strong emission lines ( maybe even with an agn ) , blue colors , and a disturbed morphology .",
    "although that galaxy is brighter than galaxy number 38 , both systems seem to experience the same physical process .",
    "our results indicate that there is a correlation between the morphology and the mass , in the sense that less - massive galaxies are mostly l - type and more - massive ones are mostly e - type ( fig .",
    "[ fig : nser_mass ] ) .",
    "this result is natural in the proposed scenario , where the morphological transformation between l - type to bulge - dominated spirals , and later to e - type galaxies is a consequence of consecutive merging processes .",
    "we have also found a clear correlation between the mass and the metallicity , in the sense that more massive galaxies are more metal rich ( fig .",
    "[ fig : met_mass ] ) .",
    "this correlation is an extension of the well known mg-@xmath44 relation for spheroidal galaxies , which seems to be independent of the galaxy morphology .",
    "although we have a very reduced sample , it seems that l - type galaxies are more metal - rich than e - type ones at any fixed mass .",
    "figure [ fig : met_mass ] also indicates that the more metal rich l - type galaxies are never more metal than the e - type ones , being only less massive . to our knowledge",
    "this effect has not been previously reported in the literature , and it may well be an effect of the very reduce sample . if not , it may imply that the galaxies reach their maximum metallicity when they are still spirals , maybe due to the enhancement of the star formation rate when infalling into the cluster , and that they later evolve to more massive bulge - dominated spirals and e - type galaxies keeping this metallicity .",
    "we obtained deep ifs data ( @xmath7021.4 mag ) covering a field - of - view of @xmath074@xmath71@xmath164@xmath71 centred on the core of the galaxy cluster abell 2218 , sampling the wavelength range 4650 - 8000  with a resolution of @xmath010  ( fwhm ) . combining these data with a deep hst / acs f850lp - band image ( @xmath7228 mag ) , and ground - based and hst / wfpc photometric data ,",
    "we have obtained the following results :    * morphological parameters of all the galaxies in the field - of - view of the hst / acs image down to @xmath6522.5 mag were obtained , based on an automatic procedure using galfit . *",
    "the integrated spectrum of each of the 43 objects detected in the ifu datacube was obtained , using a modeling technique for ifs ( galfit3d ) , which ensures a proper deblending of multiple components in crowded - fields .",
    "* of the detected objects , 28 were classified as cluster members based on their redshifts .",
    "they comprise the first volume and flux limited sample of confirmed cluster members obtained for the core of this cluster .",
    "we need to remark that the sample was obtained without any pre - selection based on morphology , colors or magnitudes . * by combining the different previous redshift and photometric surveys with our new morphological information an extended sample of 59 cluster members was created , 31 of them sampling the outer regions of the cluster ( out of the core ) . *",
    "the color - magnitude diagram of the full sample of confirmed cluster members , as a function of the morphology , was analyzed .",
    "we have found that the fraction of early - type galaxies is lower than previously reported , most of them being red and luminous galaxies . on the other hand ,",
    "the l - type galaxies spread over a wider range of colors and luminosities with respect to the e - type ones and previously published catalogs .",
    "* there is no significant difference between the color - magnitude distributions of the galaxies in the core of the cluster and in the outer regions if one distinguishes between different morphologies .",
    "if any , we found a few more l - type faint and red galaxies in the core .",
    "however , this may be due to the biases of the pre - selection of candidates in the samples obtained from the literature ( in the outer regions ) . *",
    "a strongly distorted blue galaxy is found in projection at the core of the galaxy cluster .",
    "its redshift corresponds to the nominal redshift of the cluster , and therefore , it is more likely that it is physically located in the core .",
    "a visual inspection of the object indicates that it looks like a merger in an advance stage of evolution , dominated by a young stellar population .",
    "however , if we are observing it in the moment of being captured by the cluster , the strong tidal forces that it is suffering may produce the observed disruption on its morphology . *",
    "the analysis of the age and metallicity of a reduced subsample of galaxies ( 24 galaxies , 12 core members ) based on line indices indicates that l - type galaxies on average spread towards younger ages than e - type ones .",
    "on the other hand , they seem to cover the same range of metallicities at any fixed age . *",
    "the age and metallicity of each galaxies in the core of the cluster was derived by a fitting procedure of its integrated spectrum to single stellar population models .",
    "the age - metallicity diagram of these galaxies indicates too that l - type galaxies cover a clearly wider range of ages , and a slightly wider range of metallicities .",
    "the more massive l - type galaxies seem to have similar ages and metallicities than the e - type ones , while the less massive ones tend to be younger and less metal rich . * the distribution of ages and srsic indices as a function of the stellar masses of the core members shows that l - type galaxies are less massive on average .",
    "they spread over a wider range of ages , but it is not possible to determine if this is due to their morphologies or masses . on the other hand , more massive galaxies tend to have older stellar populations and they are all early - type galaxies .",
    "* there is a clear trend between the metallicity and the mass , in the sense that more massive galaxies are more metal rich .",
    "this trend is just a change of coordinates of the well known mg@xmath40-@xmath44 relation for the early - type galaxies .",
    "however , we found that this trend is also present for the l - type galaxies , but with an offset : they are more metal rich than e - type galaxies at any fixed mass .",
    "our results agree with the proposed two - steps scenario for the evolution of galaxies in clusters ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , in which we have ( i ) a primordial population of early - type galaxies formed at early epochs with stellar populations that are mostly old , and ( ii ) a new population of l - type galaxies that are captured by the cluster , infalling , suffering a short enhancement of the star formation that is later quenched by the interaction with the environment .",
    "the galaxies then evolve passively , becoming redder and fainter , while keeping the spiral morphology .",
    "the disks dim due to the lack of new formed stars , and the galaxies become bulge - dominated spirals , after longer time - scales . later",
    "galaxy - galaxy interactions and dry merging processes build up new massive spheroidal galaxies .",
    "based on observations collected at the centro astronmico hispano alemn ( caha ) at calar alto , operated jointly by the max - planck institut fr astronomie and the instituto de astrofica de andaluca ( csic ) based in part on observations with the nasa / esa _ hubble space telescope _",
    ", obtained at the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , in .",
    ", under nasa contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "we thank dr .",
    "r. gredel , former director of calar alto , for supporting this work and providing us with the telescope time for finishing it .",
    "we thank support from the spanish plan nacional de astronoma program aya2005 - 09413-c02 - 02 , of the spanish ministery of education and science and the plan andaluz de investigacin of junta de andaluca as research group fqm322 .",
    "we thank dr .",
    "r.peletier , who kindly read the article cleaning the english .",
    "his commments on the science content have helped us to increase the quality of this article .",
    "abell , g.  o. , corwin , h.  g. , & olowin , r.  p.  1989 , apjs , 70 , 1    andredakis , y.  c. , peletier , r.  f. , & balcells , m.  1995 , mnras , 275 , 874 andreon , s.  1998 , apj , 501 , 533    aragon - salamanca , a. , ellis , r.  s. , couch , w.  j. , & carter , d.  1993 , mnras , 262 , 764 aaronson m. , cohen j.g . , mould j.r . , malkan m. , 1978 , apj , 223 , 824    balogh m.l . , morris s.l .",
    ", yee h.k.c . ,",
    "carlberg r.g .",
    ", ellingson e. , 1999 , apj , 527 , 54    bacon , r. , et al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 326 , 23    barazza , f.  d. , binggeli , b. , & jerjen , h.  2003 , a&a , 407 , 121    barazza , f.  d. , et al .  2006 ,",
    "apj , 643 , 162    , e.  f. , & de jong , r.  s. 2001 , apj , 550 , 212    , e.  f. , mcintosh , d.  h. , barden , m. , wolf , c. , caldwell , j.  a.  r. , rix , h. , beckwith , s.  v.  w. , borch , a. , h \" aussler , b. , jahnke , k. , jogee , s. , meisenheimer , k. , peng , c. , snchez , s.  f. , somerville , r.  s. , & wisotzki , l. 2004 , apjl , 600 , l11    bell , e.  f. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 640 , 241    bender , r. , burstein , d. , & faber , s.  m.  1992 , apj , 399 , 462    bender , r. , burstein , d. , & faber , s.  m.  1993 , apj , 411 , 153    bender et al .",
    "1996 , apj , 463 , l51    bertin , e. , & arnouts , s. , 1996 , aas , 117 , 393    bruzual , g. , & charlot , s. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000    burstein d. , faber s.m .",
    ", gaskell c.m . , krumm n. , 1984 , apj , 287 , 586    burstein d. , faber s.m .",
    ", gonzlez j.j . , 1986 ,",
    "aj , 91 , 1130    butcher , h. , & oemler , a.  1978 , apj , 219 , 18    butcher , h. , & oemler , a.  1978 , apj , 226 , 559    butcher , h. , wells , d.  c. , & oemler , a.  1983 , apjs , 52 , 183    butcher , h. , oemler , a. , 1984 , apj , 285 , 426    cairs , l.  m. , vlchez , j.  m. , gonzlez prez , j.  n. , iglesias - pramo , j. , & caon , n.  2001 , apjs , 133 , 321    cardiel n. , gorgas j. , aragn - salamanca a. , 1998 , mnras , 298 , 977    cardiel , n. , gorgas , j. , snchez - blzquez , p. , cenarro , a.  j. , pedraz , s. , bruzual , g. , & klement , j.  2003 , a&a , 409 , 511    , g. 2003 , pasp , 115 , 763    coe , d. , benitez , n. , snchez , s.f . , et al . , 2006 , aj , 132 , 926    colless , m. , burstein , d. , davies , r.  l. , mcmahan , r.  k. , saglia , r.  p. , & wegner , g.  1999 , mnras , 303 , 813    conselice , c.  j. , bershady , m.  a. , dickinson , m. , & papovich , c.  2003 , aj , 126 , 1183    couch , w.  j. , & sharples , r.  m.  1987 , mnras , 229 , 423    couch , w.  j. , ellis , r.  s. , sharples , r.  m. , & smail , i.  1994 , apj , 430 , 121    covone g. , kneib , j .- p . , soucail g. , richard , j. , jullo , e. , ebeling , h. , 2006 , a & a , 456,409    de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , & corwin , j.  r.  1976 , second reference catalogue of bright galaxies , 1976 , austin : university of texas press . , 0    djorgovski , s. , & davis , m.  1987 , apj , 313 , 59    dressler , a. , & gunn , j.  e.  1983 , apj , 270 , 7    dressler , a. , lynden - bell , d. , burstein , d. , davies , r.  l. , faber , s.  m. , terlevich , r. , & wegner , g.  1987 , apj , 313 , 42    dressler , a. , oemler , a.  j. , butcher , h.  r. , & gunn , j.  e.  1994 , apj , 430 , 107    dressler , a. , et al .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 577    dressler , a. , et al .  1999 ,",
    "apjs , 122 , 51    faber , s.  m. , & jackson , r.  e.  1976 , apj , 204 , 668    faber s.m . ,",
    "friel e.d . , burstein d. , gaskell c.m . , 1985 ,",
    "apjs , 57 , 711    fabricant , d. , franx , m. , & van dokkum , p.  2000 , apj , 539 , 577    fasano , g. , poggianti , b.  m. , couch , w.  j. , bettoni , d. , kjrgaard , p. , & moles , m.  2000 , apj , 542 , 673    fritz a. , ziegler b.l . , bower r.g .",
    ", smail i. , davies r.l .",
    ", 2005 , mnras , 358 , 233    fukugita , m. , shimasaku , k. , & ichikawa , t.  1995 , pasp , 107 , 945    gorgas j. , faber s.m .",
    ", burstein d. , gonzlez j.j .",
    ", courteau s. , prosser c. , 1993 , apjs , 86 , 153    johnson , h.  l. , & morgan , w.  w.  1953 , apj , 117 , 313    hubble , e.  p.  1926 , apj , 64 , 321    hubble , e. , & humason , m.  l.  1931 , apj , 74 , 43    jablonka , p. , gorgas , j. , goudfrooij , p. , astrophysics and space science , 281 , 367    kelson et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 531 , 137    kelson et al .",
    "2001 , apj , 552 , l17    kelz , a. , verheijen , m.a.w . ,",
    "roth , m.m .",
    "2006 , pasp , 118 , 129    kennicutt , r.  c. 1983 , apj , 272 , 54    kennicutt , r.  c. , tamblyn , p. , & congdon , c.  e.  1994 , apj , 435 , 22    kodama et al . 1998 , a&a , 334 , 99    kristian , j. , sandage , a. , & westphal , j.a . , 1978 , apj , 221 , 383    kuntschner , h. , lucey , j.  r. , smith , r.  j. , hudson , m.  j. , & davies , r.  l.  2001 , mnras , 323 , 615    le borgne , j.f . , pell , r. , sanahuja , b. , 1992 , a&as , 85 , 87    garca - lorenzo , b. , snchez s.f . ,",
    "mediavilla , e. , et al .",
    ", apj , 621 , 146    mchardy , i.m . , stewart , g.c . ,",
    "edge , a.c .",
    ", et al . 1990 , mnras , 242 , 215    metevier , a.  j. , romer , a.  k. , & ulmer , m.  p.  2000 , aj , 119 , 1090    , j.  c. & hernquist , l. 1996 , apj , 464 , 641    moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , & oemler , a. , jr .",
    "1996 , nature , 379 , 613    moss , c. , & whittle , m.  2000 , mnras , 317 , 667    oconnell r.w .",
    ", 1976 , apj , 206 , 370    oemler , a.  j.  1974 , apj , 194 , 1    oemler , a. , jr .",
    "1976 , apj , 209 , 693    owen , f.  n. , keel , w.  c. , wang , q.  d. , ledlow , m.  j. , & morrison , g.  e.  2006 , aj , 131 , 1974    peng , c.y .",
    ", ho , l.c . , impey , c.d . ,",
    "rix , h. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 266    peletier , r. , 2006 , mnras , in preparation    pimbblet , k.  a. , smail , i. , kodama , t. , couch , w.  j. , edge , a.  c. , zabludoff , a.  i. , & ohely , e.  2002 , mnras , 331 , 333    poggianti , b.  m. , smail , i. , dressler , a. , couch , w.  j. , barger , a.  j. , butcher , h. , ellis , r.  s. , & oemler , a.  j.  1999 , apj , 518 , 576    poggianti , b.  m. , et al .",
    "2001 , apj , 563 , 118    poggianti , b.  m.  2003 , ap&ss , 285 , 121    poggianti , b.  m. , bridges , t.  j. , komiyama , y. , yagi , m. , carter , d. , mobasher , b. , okamura , s. , & kashikawa , n.  2004 , apj , 601 , 197    rakos , k. , dominis , d. , steindling , s. , 2001 , a&a , 369    rix , h. , barden , m. , beckwith s.v.w . , et al . , 2006 , apjs , 152 , 163    roth , m.m . , kelz , a. , fechner , t. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "pasp , 117 , 620    , e.  e. 1955 , apj , 121 , 161    snchez , s.  f. , & gonzlez - serrano , j.  i.  2002 , a&a , 396 , 773    snchez s.f . , 2004 , an , 325 , 167    snchez s.f . ,",
    "garca - lorenzo , b. , mediavilla , e. , et al . , 2004 , apj , 615 , 156    snchez , s.  f. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 614 , 586    snchez s.f . &",
    "n.cardiel , calar alto newsletter , num .",
    "10    snchez s.f .",
    ", 2006 , an , 327 , 850    snchez , s.  f. , garca - lorenzo , b. , jahnke , k. , mediavilla , e. , gonzlez - serrano , j.  i. , christensen , l. , & wisotzki , l.  2006 , new astronomy review , 49 , 501    snchez s.f . , garca - lorenzo , b. , mediavilla , e. , 2006 , proceedings of the xiii iac winter school , arribas , s. , mediavilla , e. , & roth , m. , ed . , in press .",
    "simien , f. , & de vaucouleurs , g.  1986 , apj , 302 , 564    sirianni , m. , et al .",
    "2005 , pasp , 117 , 1049    smail , i. , dressler , a. , couch , w.  j. , ellis , r.  s. , oemler , a.  j. , butcher , h. , & sharples , r.  m.  1997 , apjs , 110 , 213    smail , i. , edge , a.  c. , ellis , r.  s. , & blandford , r.  d.  1998 , mnras , 293 , 124    smail , i. , kuntschner , h. , kodama , t. , et al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 323 , 839    stanford et al .",
    "1997 , aj , 114 , 2232    stanford et al .",
    "1998 , apj , 492 , 461    thomas , d. , greggio , l. , & bender , r.  1999 , mnras , 302 , 537    thomas d. , maraston c. , korn a. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , l19    thompson , l.  a.  1986 , apj , 300 , 639    thompson , l.  a.  1988 , apj , 324 , 112    tinsley b. , 1980 , fund .",
    "cosmic physics , 5 , 287    tody , d. 1993 , `` iraf in the nineties '' in astronomical data analysis software and systems ii , a.s.p .",
    "conference ser . , vol 52 , eds .",
    "hanisch , r.j.v .",
    "brissenden , & j. barnes , 173 .",
    "trager , s.  c. , worthey , g. , faber , s.  m. , burstein , d. , & gonzalez , j.  j.  1998 , apjs , 116 , 1    trager , s.  c. , faber , s.  m. , worthey , g. , & gonzalez , j.  j.  2000 , aj , 120 , 165    thuan , t.  x. , & gunn , j.  e.  1976 , pasp , 88 , 543    vazdekis a. , cenarro a.j . , gorgas j. , cardiel n. , peletier r.f . , 2003 , mnras , 340 , 1317    van dokkum & franx 1996 , mnras , 281 , 985    van dokkum , p.  g. , franx , m. , fabricant , d. , kelson , d.  d. , & illingworth , g.  d.  1999 , apjl , 520 , l95    van dokkum et al .",
    "2001b , , apj , 553 , 90    verheijen , m.  a.  w.  1997 , ph.d .",
    "thesis ,    verheijen , m.  a.  w. , bershady , m.  a. , andersen , d.  r. , swaters , r.  a. , westfall , k. , kelz , a. , & roth , m.  m.  2004 , astronomische nachrichten , 325 , 151    wolf , c. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 630 , 771    worthey g. , 1994 , apjs , 95 , 107    worthey , g. , 1994 , apjs , 111 , 377    worthey g , faber s.m . ,",
    "gonzlez j.j . ,",
    "burstein d. , 1994 , apjs , 94 , 687    zwaan , m.  a. , van dokkum , p.  g. , & verheijen , m.  a.  w.  2001 , science , 293 , 1800    ziegler , b.l . ,",
    "bower , r.g . ,",
    "smail , i. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 325 , 1571",
    "figure [ fig : spec ] shows the indivual spectrum extracted from our ifs data for each galaxies listed in the table [ tab : red ] . for each galaxy",
    "the spectrum is plot together with the multiband broad - band photometry derived from the hst / acs f475w , f555w , f625w , f775w and f850lp - band images ( red circles ) .",
    "the vertical error bars indicate the photometric errors , while the horizontal ones indicate the width of each band . the wavelength of the strongest night sky emission lines and bands are also indicated . at these locations",
    "the unproper sky subtraction produce characteristic residuals that can be seen in the spectra .",
    "in particular the wavelength range redder than 7200  is strongly affected , so we did not consider it in any of the performed analysis .",
    "the grey solid line shows the best fitted ssp model derived with the procedure described in section [ sec : fit_ssp ] .",
    "the procedure to deblend and extract the spectra of the individual objects from our ifs data relies on the assumption that it is possible to use the morphological parameters derived by fitting galaxy profile models on the f850lp - band image , using galfit , to derive the photometry at any other wavelength range , by forcing galfit to recover the flux with the morphological parameters fixed . to test this assumption use the hst / acs multiband image dataset , which cover all the wavelength range or our ifs data .    for each broad - band image of our dataset ( f475w , f555w , f625w and f775w )",
    ", we performed the same morphological analysis that we already performed for the f850lp - band , following the prescriptions described in section [ sec : morph ] . in this first iteration we left galfit to fit the morphological parameters , as we did in the analysis of the f850lp - band .",
    "this procedure produces a morphological catalogue for each of the considered images , including the same parameters listed in table [ tab : morph ] . in a second iteration",
    ", the analysis was repeated but this time we used as input parameters the ones derived by the analysis of the f850lp - band image . in this second step",
    "the morphological parameters were fixed to those input values , and only the photometry was fitted by galfit .",
    "this procedure is basically the same that we use to extract and deblend the spectra in our ifs data .",
    "similar results have been found for any band .",
    "figure [ fig : check ] summarizes the results from the analysis .",
    "left - panel shows a comparison between the different bands magnitudes derived by galfit forcing the morphological parameters to be the ones derived from the morphological analysis of the f850lp - band image , and the magnitudes derived not imposing any condition to galfit regarding the morphological parameters of the analyzed objects .",
    "the magnitudes derived using both methods agree within @xmath410.2 mags , without any clear trend or bias .",
    "middle - panel shows the scale - length derived by galfit for the f850lp - band image , using in the forced fitting process over the different bands images descrived above , along the scale - length derived directly over this image by the morphological analysis . although there are some outlayers , both scale - lengths are similar in most of the cases .",
    "right - panels shows a similar comparison between the srsic indices derived by the two fitting procedures . in this last case we found the biggest differences between both parameters , with a considerable dispersion from the one - to - one relation .",
    "it is clear that there is a chromatic effect over the morphology , as it is seen in the last panel , however , this effect has a reduced impact on the derived scale - length , and even less impact on the derived photometry .",
    "thus , the basic assumption of our procedure to deblend and extract the individual spectra of the targets from our ifs data is valid .    to perform a final test of the validity of our procedure and the accuracy of our spectrophotometric data we synthetized the fluxes throughout the @xmath14 , @xmath15 , @xmath73 and @xmath21-bands for each of our 28 cluster members with ifs data by convolving their extracted spectra with the corresponding hst / acs filter band transmission curve , integrating their fluxes .",
    "these fluxes are compared to the corresponding ones derived using the hst / acs based photometry listed in table [ tab : phot ] .",
    "figure [ fig : synth ] shows the histograms of the relative differences between both fluxes for each band , @xmath74f / f , that basically corresponds to the error in the corresponding magnitude ( @xmath0@xmath75 ) . due to the high accuracy of the hst / acs photometry ( typical @xmath760.05 mag for the considered objects ) most of the differences shown in the figure corresponds to spectrophotometric errors in the ifs data .",
    "for all the bands both fluxes agree within a range of @xmath410.3 mag , with a standard deviation of the difference of @xmath00.15 mag ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a study of the stellar populations and morphologies of galaxies in the core of the galaxy cluster abell 2218 . </S>",
    "<S> integral field spectroscopy ( ifs ) observations were performed using pmas in the ppak mode covering a field - of - view of @xmath074@xmath164  centred on the core of the cluster , in order to obtain spectroscopy of an unbiased flux limited sample of cluster galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> forty - three objects were detected in the ifs data , 31 of them with enough signal - to - noise to derive the redshift , all of them brighter than @xmath221.5 mag . </S>",
    "<S> twenty - eight are at the redshift of the cluster ( 17 with previously unknown redshift ) . </S>",
    "<S> individual spectra of the cluster members were extracted and compared with single stellar population models to derive the luminosity - weighted ages and metallicities . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , deep hst / acs f475w , f555w , f625w and f850lp - band images centred on the cluster core were obtained from the hst archive ( @xmath328 mag ) . </S>",
    "<S> a detailed morphological analysis of all the galaxies within the field - of - view of these images down to @xmath422.5 mag was performed classifying them as late - type , intermediate and early - type , on the basis of their srsic indices . </S>",
    "<S> the literature was scanned to look for spectroscopically confirmed cluster members located within the field - of - view of the acs image . </S>",
    "<S> the final sample of 59 galaxies comprises our reported sample of 28 galaxies in the core , and 31 additional galaxies in the outer regions . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , multiband broad - band photometry was extracted from the literature for all objects .    </S>",
    "<S> the morphologically segregated color - magnitude diagram shows that the early - type galaxies cover the range of brighter and redder colors ( the so - called `` red sequence '' ) . </S>",
    "<S> a large fraction of spiral galaxies ( @xmath050% ) is found , most of them fainter than the limit of previous studies . </S>",
    "<S> they cover a wide range in colors , from blue colors typical of butcher - oemler galaxies to red colors similar to those of early - type galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> this result indicates that early - type galaxies are more massive and have older stellar populations , while late - type galaxies are less massive and have a wider range of stellar populations . </S>",
    "<S> the distribution of luminosity weighted ages as a function of metallicities and luminosity weighted masses , and the distribution of srsic indices as a function of the luminosity weighted masses confirm these results . </S>",
    "<S> they in fact agree with a proposed two - step scenario for the evolution of galaxies in clusters , where the star formation is quenched first in the infalling spirals , after which a morphological transformation follows that requires larger time - scales . </S>",
    "<S> this scenario naturally explains the population faint late - type galaxies with old stellar populations observed in this cluster . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , an extremely blue merging galaxy system is found at the core , with the nominal redshift of the cluster .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : clusters : individual : abell 2218 - galaxies : elliptical and lenticular , cd - galaxies : spiral - galaxies : irregular - galaxies : fundamental parameters - galaxies : stellar content - techniques : spectroscopic </S>"
  ]
}