{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxy formation is a complex process , involving both gravity and hydrodynamics , and can be complicated by such ingredients as turbulence and astrochemistry . the disks and",
    "the spheroids of galaxies have undergone distinct . although not necessarily uncoupled , histories .",
    "the physics of disk formation has made considerable progress , in no small part due to the pioneering review by ken freeman in _ stars and stellar systems , volume ix _ that assembled diverse observational and theoretical aspects together for the first time .",
    "spheroid formation is in a less satisfactory state , in part because spheroids are old and so their formation occurred long ago , and there are correspondingly few direct clues .",
    "we do not yet have an adequate understanding of either disk or spheroid formation .",
    "there is a simple reason for this predicament .",
    "we have no fundamental theory of star formation : the best we can do even in nearby regions of star fomation is to assemble phenomenologically - motivated arguments and laws",
    ". when phenomenology is sparse as in the early universe , all bets are off as to the scalability of current epoch theory to the past .",
    "of course , the lack of a robust theory has never deterred theorists , and in this talk i will highlight some of the key issues currently confronting cosmologists .",
    "textbooks state that disks are blue and bulges are red .",
    "the colours reflect the current star formation histories of these diverse systems .",
    "spiral galaxies are undergoing star formation at a healthy rate some 10 gyr or more after the disks formed , whereas spheroids such as that of our own galaxy have long since ( at least 5 gyr ago ) exhausted their gas supplies .",
    "reality is somewhat different , and there is no hard and fast discrimination via colours between disks and spheroids .",
    "it takes the merest trickle of star formation to bluen ellipticals or to generate stellar population spectral line indicators symptomatic of relative youth .",
    "such objects are found with increasing frequency as deeper and more complete surveys are performed . of course , red disks are a characteristic of s0 galaxies .",
    "cold disks are gravitationally unstable , and the instabilities are responsible for the formation of the giant molecular clouds within which most stars form .",
    "the cold gas concentration increases as the cloud velocity dispersion is reduced . for a disk geometry ,",
    "both effects drive the toomre gravitational instability parameter @xmath1 down , where @xmath2 is the disk velocity dispersion and @xmath3 is the disk mass surface density .",
    "then @xmath4 is the condition for the disk to be locally stable against axisymmetric gravitational instabilities .",
    "this is also a necessary condition for global stability against non - axisymmetric instabilities .",
    "lowering @xmath5 further destabilizes the disk , and increases the star formation rate via cloud - collision induced star formation .    in order for disks",
    "to be actively forming stars today , the efficiency of star formation must be low in order for the initial gas supply not to have been exhausted .",
    "the present gas accretion rate onto the disk as inferred from observations of the high velocity clouds is too low by an order of magnitude to sustain ongoing star formation . indeed some of the high velocity clouds are likely to be gas ejected from the galaxy rather than primordial clouds sustaining a halo gas reservoir , because of their near - solar chemical abundances .",
    "at least one large high velocity cloud complex is dust - poor and metal - poor ( richter et al . 2001 ) , suggestive of primordial infall that has mixed with gas ejected from the disk .    a simple argument for the low efficiency of star formation in disks appeals to feedback from supernovae .",
    "let @xmath6 be the specific momentum injected by supernovae per unit star formation rate @xmath7 , given by @xmath8 with @xmath9 being the velocity at which the remnant enters the momentum conserving regime in a uniform disk of density @xmath10 , @xmath11ergs the supernova energy ( taken to be @xmath12 ergs ) , and @xmath13 the metallicity relative to solar of the ambient gas for an analytic fit to a spherically symmetric supernova remnant ( cioffi , mckee and bertschinger 1988 ) . here",
    "@xmath14 is the mean mass required in forming stars in order to produce a supernova . for snii",
    ", one simply assumes an initial mass function ( imf ) with all stars of mass above 8 m@xmath15 becoming supernovae , so that @xmath16 m@xmath15 for a miller - scalo imf . for a global star formation rate of @xmath17",
    "the inferred supernova rate is @xmath18 for type ib , ic and ii supernovae ( capellaro et al . 1997 ) .",
    "one can increase the inferred rate by @xmath19 to include type ia supernovae for an estimate of the total rate of supernovae after the first @xmath20 years have elapsed ( to allow sufficient time for snia to form ) .",
    "the momentum input from supernovae is dissipated via cloud - cloud collisions and outflow from the disk . in a steady state",
    ", the momentum input rate @xmath21 must balance the cloud collisional dissipational rate @xmath22 and the momentum carried out in outflows @xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the turbulent pressure @xmath25 of the two - phase interstellar medium , @xmath26 is the cloud mean free path , given by @xmath27 if the cloud velocity dispersion is induced by disk gravitational instabilities ( gammie , ostriker and jog 1991 ) , @xmath28 is the disk gas scale height , and @xmath3 is the surface mass density . since @xmath29",
    "these two momentum dissipation rates are comparable .",
    "the observed three - dimensional cloud velocity dispersion is 11 @xmath30 ( for molecular clouds within 3 kpc of the sun ) ( stark and brand 1989 ) .",
    "i equate the star formation and star death rates , and model the star formation rate by initially only incorporating a dependence on local gas density and dynamical time : @xmath31 ignoring any outflow or infall contributions to the momentum budget , one balances turbulence generation by gravitational instability driven by large - scale shear and differential rotation on large scales ( wada and norman 1999 ) with supernova momentum input on small scales ( silk 1987 , wada and norman 2001 ) .",
    "a simple argument then leads to @xmath32 so that @xmath33 @xmath34 ) @xmath35 .",
    "this reasoning suggests that supernova feedback can indeed yield the required low efficiency of star formation .    for a galaxy such as the milky way",
    ", the global star formation efficiency is expected to be around 2 percent , both as inferred from the global values of gas mass @xmath36 and star formation rate @xmath37yr@xmath38 ) after allowance for gas return from evolving stars ( the returned fraction @xmath39 for a miller - scalo imf ) over a galactic dynamical time and as more directly inferred from studies of hii region radio luminosities summed over molecular cloud masses ( e.g. williams and mckee 1997 ) . thus the milky way interstellar medium has a predicted efficiency of star formation comparable to what is observed .",
    "one consequence of a gravitationally unstable cloud - forming and star - forming disk is that the turbulence seen today in cloud motions yields an effective viscosity that can account for various properties of galactic disks , including exponential surface brightness profiles ( silk and norman 1981 ; lin and pringle 1987 ) , the disk scale size ( silk 2001 ) , the molecular gas fraction ( vollmer and beckert 2001 ) , the tully - fisher relation ( firmani and avila - reese 2000 ) , and the star formation rate and efficiency ( devriendt , slyz and silk 2002 ) .      in contrast with galactic disks , star formation rates were once high and efficient in spheroids , when they were gas - rich .",
    "the obvious difference is geometry : the gas velocity dispersion , and hence gas pressure , is much higher in forming spheroids .",
    "a more complex model is needed for the interstellar medium that explicitly incorporates the 3-dimensional geometry and the multiphase interstellar medium .",
    "even minor mergers result in gas being driven in substantial amounts into the central regions of the galaxy .",
    "the stage is set for spheroid formation .",
    "the gas mass and concentration is so high that a starburst must surely develop , as indeed is observed .",
    "but the detailed conversion of gas into stars is poorly understood .",
    "supernovae must play an important role in providing momentum feedback and thereby controlling the duration of the starburst .",
    "i consider a two - phase medium in which dense cold clouds are embedded in the hot , supernova - heated diffuse medium .",
    "i model the volume of the hot phase by porosity , @xmath40 , and argue that the porosity @xmath41 of the hot medium controls the stellar feedback .",
    "the porosity , defined below , is a measure of the fraction of volume @xmath42 occupied by the hot phase ( @xmath43 ) associated with the interiors of supernova remnants . in the context of disk formation and evolution , breakout from the cold disk",
    "occurs if the porosity is large , so that the supernova - heated bubbles can penetrate into the halo , and most of the kinetic energy injected by the supernovae flows out in chimneys or fountains .",
    "a plausible condition for self - regulation is @xmath44 .",
    "if the porosity is large , outflows develop , and star formation is initially enhanced by compression of cold clouds .",
    "as the cold gas is depleted , by both star formation and outflows , star formation eventually is quenched . in a disk geometry , the winds drive supernova ejecta out of the disk and thereby make feedback ineffective . in a spheroid , it should be easier to drive an outflow through the diffuse medium if @xmath41 is not too small .",
    "it seems likely that the enhanced gas concentration in the low @xmath41 limit will drive up the star formation rate and initiate a starburst .",
    "this at least is the generic assumption that underpins virtually all studies of merger - induced star formation .",
    "in other words , low porosity enhances the feedback from supernovae , thereby driving up the porosity .",
    "hence @xmath44 seems to be the natural outcome of the resulting self - regulation of star formation , with a hot gas fraction @xmath45 applying in a quasi - steady state . with self - regulation ,",
    "one is in the low efficiency regime .",
    "hence this will be the long - term fate of a starburst as the gas supply is diminished , by consumption in star formation and by outflow .",
    "starbursts are usually considered to characterize massive spheroid formation .",
    "observations of ulirgs certainly imply high efficiency of star formation , evidence for triggering by mergers at least in extreme cases , and rapid generation of a de vaucouleurs - like profile .",
    "nevertheless one persistent line of reasoning that stems from the cold dark matter scenario for hierarchical galaxy formation has insistently and reasonably successfully argued that spheroids , apart from their nuclei , form from dissipationless mergers of galaxies .",
    "the stars form before the spheroid is assembled . in this way",
    ", one can have an old stellar population in place by @xmath46 , where observational evidence seemingly insists that only passive evolution has occurred for e and s0 galaxies in clusters and even in the field .",
    "the occasional indications of intermediate age features ( balmer absorption lines etc . )",
    "seen especially in some field ellipticals are explained by very low rates of recent star formation ( ferreras and silk 2000 ) .",
    "hence low porosity leads to low feedback and high efficiency of star formation , while high porosity means strong feedback and low efficiency .",
    "of course if the porosity is too large @xmath47 , any winds or outflows are likely to be suppressed via superbubbles that overlap and self - destruct .",
    "the superbubble interiors are fed by evaporation of cold entrapped gas clouds , and this is the source of the outflows .",
    "hence it is logical to expect that for @xmath48 , a wind is driven .",
    "indeed observations of star - forming galaxies , including starbursts , show that ouflow rates are on the order of the star formation rate ( martin 1999 ; heckman et al .",
    "one may quantify these arguments on porosity as follows .",
    "porosity is defined to be the product of the supernova remnant 4-volume at maximum extent , when halted by ambient gas pressure , and the rate of bubble production .",
    "one can then write the porosity as @xmath49 where @xmath7 is the star formation rate per unit volume , @xmath14 is the mass in stars formed per supernova , and @xmath50 is the radius of the supernova remnant at time @xmath51 when halted by the ambient ( turbulent ) gas pressure @xmath24 .",
    "one finds that the porosity @xmath52 is extremely sensitive to the interstellar pressure .",
    "it is relevant to look at the porosity of nearby star - forming galaxies .",
    "oey , clarke and massey ( 2001 ) note that one can approximate the porosity as @xmath53 where a salpeter imf has been adopted and an ambient disk interstellar medium pressure @xmath54 has been assumed .",
    "here @xmath55 and @xmath56 are the gas disk scale - height and scale - length , respectively , and @xmath57 is the global star formation rate .",
    "the local group galaxies display a wide range of global porosities , from the extreme case of ic10 @xmath58 to m33 @xmath59 and the smc @xmath60    in fact , a value of @xmath41 of order unity , as inferred both for the lmc and for the milky way ( this latter case being based on the observed supernova rate ) would seem to be not untypical for large galaxies @xmath61 , admittedly based on rather poor statistics . while the situation for our own galaxy is confusing with regard to direct hi mapping and determination of @xmath41 ( heiles 2000 ) , there is substantial infall to and outflow from the galactic disk as seen in ovi surveys performed by the fuse satellite .",
    "one can make a strong case that @xmath48 for the lmc from hi maps and that there is substantial injection of mechanical energy from regions of star formation into the diffuse interstellar medium by expanding hi supershells ( kim et al .",
    "the ovi absorption studies show that the mass - flow rate from one side of the lmc disk is about @xmath62 ( howk et al .",
    "this is comparable to the global star formation rate for the lmc .",
    "the role of supernovae in driving the observed superbubbles is inferred indirectly but supernovae appear to provide the dominant injection of energy .",
    "excess expansion rates are measured relative to the standard assumptions for ob stellar wind - driven outflows , and excess x - ray luminosities are measured relative to the estimated post - shock luminosities .",
    "the occurence of several supernovae within a given superbubble is a natural expectation given any reasonable imf , and seems to be required by the observations .",
    "the porosity ansatz provides the motivation for the feedback prescription . by incorporating an analytic fit to the evolution of a spherically symmetric supernova - driven shell ,",
    "one can write @xmath63 where @xmath64 is the star formation rate , @xmath24 is the ambient gas pressure , both thermal and turbulent , and @xmath65 is a fiducial velocity dispersion that is proportional to @xmath66 and may be taken to be 18 @xmath67 for @xmath68 erg , @xmath69 m@xmath15 and @xmath70 .",
    "note that at large pressure , @xmath71 and porosity is primarily controlled by the ambient pressure , which i take to be dominated by turbulence : @xmath72 .",
    "consider the possibility of strong feedback . in this case , the filling factor of hot gas is of order fifty percent , which is the requirement for strong feedback . rewriting ( 3 ) as @xmath73 one explicitly incorporates feedback into the star formation rate .",
    "the star formation rate is controlled by ambient pressure . thus even in starbursts , as long as @xmath44",
    ", a schmidt - type relation is maintained .",
    "the predicted efficiency is around 2% for the milky way disk , in agreement with the estimate from ( 2 ) , but can be as high as 50% , for merger - induced turbulence ( @xmath74 ) and a standard imf .    if the turbulence is low , the efficiency is much less .",
    "however the porosity may still be large so that feedback is strong .",
    "inserting the derived expression ( 2 ) for disk star formation efficiency into the equation for the porosity , i find that the porosity can be inferred : @xmath75    the feedback is weak @xmath76 if the gas pressure is large .",
    "very high turbulence quenches the porosity , because of the high gas pressure . in a starburst ,",
    "the star formation rate is high and the efficiency is high , but the porosity of the hot medium is initially low .",
    "feedback is small and one has runaway star formation .",
    "nothing impedes gas accretion , cooling and collapse .",
    "the low porosity does not necessarily quench outflows which can be carried by the neutral gas , and hence driven by the momentum input into the neutral interstellar medium .",
    "the runaway star formation will result in an increase in the porosity .",
    "hence @xmath48 should apply most of the time .",
    "outflows will then be common",
    ".    a top - heavy imf could substantially reduce @xmath6 , and star formation efficiences of order 50% would then readily be attainable , even with modest levels of interstellar turbulence .",
    "such efficiencies may be needed in order to account for the luminosities measured in some ultraluminous infrared galaxies where the molecular gas masses are measured .",
    "a top - heavy stellar initial mass function might be required in protogalaxy mergers in order to reconcile the hypothesis that ellipticals formed in such events with the inferred paucity of young ellipticals at intermediate redshifts",
    ".    there may be other indications that the imf in the early universe may be more weighted to massive stars and light production than the local imf .",
    "a quantitative comparison is between the star formation rate and measured rest - uv luminosity density from star - forming galaxies at @xmath77 with the local @xmath78-band luminosity density , where , for reasonable extinction corrections , a possible overproduction of old starlight is inferred for a local near infrared imf ( cole et al .",
    "similar conclusions come from diffuse extragalactic background light .",
    "observations at optical wavelengths ( bernstein , freedman and madore 2001 ) combined with the uv and fir diffuse extragalactic light backgrounds yield a total extragalactic background light density of @xmath79 such an intensity , predominantly from high redshift galaxies , overproduces the local stellar density by about a factor of 2 for a standard imf .",
    "there are three approaches that have been explored towards developing a unified approach to galaxy formation .",
    "the loss of protogalactic angular momentum is confirmed by high resolution simulations .",
    "disks are a factor @xmath80 too small .",
    "the resolution of this problem requires more realistic modelling of disk formation that incorporates gas physics and stellar feedback .",
    "disks are two - dimensional systems , which makes their stability easier to model",
    ". the three - dimensional components of galaxies are not well understood .",
    "one has made most progress with the the dark matter halos , although the characteristic halo scale defined by the density profile is also controversial . the nfw profile ( navarro , frenk and white 1997 ) certainly has a scale , but it may not be the correct scale as defined by the dark matter cores according to high resolution simulations of dark matter halos .",
    "the concentration of dark matter appears to be excessive in the inner disk of our galaxy ( binney and evans 2001 ) and in barred spirals ( debattista and sellwood 2000 ) .",
    "central dark matter cusps are predicted ( ghigna et al .",
    "2000 ; jing and suto 2000 ; klypin et al .",
    "2001 ) that are not observed in lsb dwarfs ( van den bosch and swaters 2001 ) . the halo substructure results in considerable angular momentum losss from the dissipating baryons to the dark matter , forming disks that are far too small ( navarro and steinmetz 2000 ) .",
    "all of these problems presently plague numerical modelling of disk galaxy formation .    these various difficulties on subgalactic scales",
    "have been touted as creating a crisis for the cold dark matter scenario of galaxy formation , hitherto so remarkably successful on larger scales .",
    "possible resolutions come under two distinct guises : tinkering with the particle physics or elaborating on the astrophysics . the former class of solutions appeals to invoking new theories of gravity that may even dispense entirely with the need for any dark matter , or to the introduction of exotic varieties of particle dark matter , such as self - interacting or warm dark matter .",
    "the astrophysical possibilities include various types of feedback , that might involve dynamical interactions between baryons and the dark matter .",
    "proposals include a combination of angular momentum transfer to and heating of dark matter via a massive primordial rotating baryonic bar which would undergo resonant interactions with the dark matter ( weinberg and katz 2001 ) and drive massive gaseous outflows ( binney , gerhard and silk 2001 ) .",
    "bulge sizes are equally a mystery , as far as any fundamental theory of galaxy formation is concerned .",
    "at least one may hope that the scale of disks ultimately comes from angular momentum considerations , with the initial angular momentum being obtained from second - order theory of tidal torques between density fluctuations in combination with feedback considerations .",
    "the final bulge sizes are determined by the complex star - gas interactions in a starburst .",
    "fully numerical treatments of galaxy formation include n - body simulations to follow the dark matter and the stars , coupled with hydrodynamics to follow the gas dynamics .",
    "the procedure has succeeded in commencing with cosmological scales , zooming in at progressively higher resolution with adaptive mesh techniques and a grid - based code to resolve the scales on which the first stars may have formed , around @xmath81 ( abel , bryan and norman 2000).@xcite this at least is where the fragmentation seems to terminate .",
    "the resulting gas clumps are identified with the first stars .",
    "unfortunately the adaptive approach only succeeds in resolving a single clump that is assumed to be repesentative of the entire protogalaxy .",
    "moreover , there is no guarantee that further fragmentation does not occur .",
    "additional complexities include feedback from the first massive stars that will modify subsequent cooling , fragmentation and star formation .",
    "the numerical scheme of adaptive mesh refinement can not yet tackle global aspects of galaxy formation .",
    "this approach is ideal however for providing the crucial subgrid physics which one can eventually hope to combine with galaxy - scale simulations .",
    "another approach to modelling feedback is to use smooth particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) to model a large volume of the universe , resimulating the dense peaks where galaxies form at high resolution .",
    "sph allows feedback to be studied over galaxy scales .",
    "however , feedback prescriptions have not hitherto been effective or convincing , forming either forming disks too late by arguing that feedback globally delays gas cooling and hence star formation ( weil , eke and efstathiou 1998 ) , or by inserting an ad hoc delay between energy feedback from massive star deaths and gas cooling ( couchman and thacker 2001 ) .",
    "sommer - larsen ( 2002 ) has incorporated simple star formation rules into a feedback model , and has succeeded with a sph code in producing disks that are within a factor 2 of the observed size .",
    "the disks form inside - out , but still have a substantial number of old stars from previous accretion events in their outer parts , as seen in the outer regions of m31 ( ferguson and johnson 2001 ) .",
    "subsequent gas infall occurs even at the current epoch , and x - ray observations of halos provide an important constraint on models of disks and spheroids .",
    "isolated ellipticals in particular should contain a considerable reservoir of hot gas .",
    "semi - analytical theory uses n - body simulations to sample a large volume and determine the density peaks and velocity minima where galaxy formation is likely to occur .",
    "monte - carlo realisations are constructed of the merging histories of dark matter halos .",
    "continuing cooling occurs around dense peaks in the density field .",
    "cooling is rapid in these regions , and this is where the galaxies form .",
    "gas disks are the basic objects to form first .",
    "mergers occur in the denser regions where there are adjacent peaks .",
    "these are the regions that eventually form clusters of galaxies .",
    "more quiescent accretion occurs in the relatively isolated regions .",
    "star formation rules are then applied in each local environment to generate galactic disks in the accretion - dominated regions via a schmidt - type law .",
    "ellipticals form in the merging environments via starbursts .",
    "there is no effective resolution of galaxy scales .",
    "initial scales are associated with the radius at maximum extent of an overdensity of specified mass , with angular momentum assumed to subsequently be conserved .",
    "the protogalactic cloud forms with the small value of initial dimensionless angular momentum @xmath82 that is generated by tidal torques between neighbouring fluctuations , and attains virial equilibrium at a fraction @xmath83 of the maximum radius .",
    "a simple law is used for the star formation rate in the resulting disk , taken to be proportional to the gas density divided by the local free fall time , and cold gas infall continues to feed the disk .",
    "population synthesis combined with dust modelling yields colours and counts",
    "( somerville & primack 1999 ; benson et al . 2000 ; devriendt and guiderdoni 2000 ; kauffmann & haehnelt 2000 ) .",
    "spiral galaxies are relatively isolated galaxies that have not undergone a significant merger within the past 5 - 10 gyr .",
    "elliptical galaxies are assumed to form via major mergers on a dynamical time scale , with stars assumed to form in a starburst .",
    "once the parameters are carefully adjusted , including feedback , the semi - analytical approach provides good agreement with the observed luminosity function , multi - wavelength band galaxy counts , redshift distributions and cosmic star formation histories .",
    "it has successfully reproduced the clustering of the lyman break galaxy populations .",
    "accretion occurs primarily along filaments and sheets of dark matter .",
    "early galaxy formation occurs in overdense filaments of dark matter .",
    "the theory is less predictive on issues that involve star formation . in the hierarchical theory ,",
    "most stars form relatively late , and it is not clear whether the colours , spectra and luminosities of galaxies at redshift unity can be reproduced .",
    "forthcoming surveys will provide the data base with which the current models can be definitively tested and refined .",
    "unfortunately , the semi - analytic models are not especially robust .",
    "there are several adjustable parameters , and detailed exploration of the large parameter space for the gas and star formation physics is not feasible . nor is there any resolution of the question of the determination of disk or bulge sizes .",
    "ultra - high resolution simulations will be needed in order to make substantive progress in our understanding of how galaxies formed .",
    "analytical theory comes in different flavours , within a strongly phenomenological context .",
    "backwards galaxy formation is one example , where models are made of nearby disks that are evolved back in time .",
    "this has the advantage of allowing the incorporation of realistic star formation modelling , but can not easily cope with mergers and infall .",
    "angular momentum conservation , not necessarily the best of approximations , plays a key role in generating low surface brightness galaxies ( dalcanton , spergel and summers 1997 ) and in modelling the tully - fisher relation for disk galaxies ( mo , mao and white 1998 ) .",
    "accretion of gas and viscous disk self - regulation are central to the approach of firmani , hernandez and gallagher ( 2000 ) .",
    "a phenomenological variant has been developed that involves galaxy collisions and mergers ( balland , silk & schaeffer 1998 ) by using tidal interactions to determine where and when the different morphological types form , normalizing the theory to the morphological dependence on local density .",
    "this approach is almost completely phenomenological .",
    "ellipticals form by rare major mergers and disks form by prolonged infall , which is equivalent to a sequence of minor mergers .",
    "the analytic approach to merger physics is parametrised by an approximate fit to the collision cross - section to estimate the energy exchange incurred in tidal interactions and mergers .",
    "strong interactions leading to mergers are assumed to form ellipticals , with intermediate strength interactions between galaxies generating harassment ( moore et al . 1999 ) that results in s0 formation .",
    "minor interactions , typical of the field , result in spiral galaxy formation . the fraction of elliptical , s0 and spiral galaxies can be predicted as a function of redshift and of mean local density .    to make contact with observations ,",
    "star formation and chemical evolution must be incorporated .",
    "gas cools radiatively within the halos , settles into a disk and forms stars .",
    "semi - empirical recipes are used to account for various astrophysical processes , including star formation efficiency , dust opacity , absorption and emission , and feedback ( devriendt and guiderdoni 2000 ) .",
    "the spectral evolution model ( devriendt , guiderdoni & sadat 1999 ) self - consistently links the optical and the far - ir / submillimeter emission .",
    "one then selects every galaxy identified as an early type galaxy to undergo an `` obscured starburst '' phase , whose intensity and duration are controlled by the amount of gas available for star formation .",
    "a fair overall agreement is found between between models and data ( silk and devriendt 2001 ; balland , devriendt and silk 2002 ) .",
    "late - type galaxies dominate the counts and background light relative to early types in the optical and the far - ir , but at longer wavelengths the contribution of early - type galaxies exceeds that from late types .",
    "this behaviour is of course due to the negative k - correction , which makes galaxies of the same bolometric luminosity as bright at redshift 5 as at redshift 0.5 .",
    "this effect is only important in the submillimeter ( e.g. for scuba at 850 microns ) , because the peak rest frame emissivity of dust occurs between 60 and 100 microns .",
    "since the s0s and ellipticals form at @xmath84 , the associated redshifted emission dominates the diffuse background at wavelengths greater than about 300 microns .",
    "stellar evolution , from birth to death , is the key to understanding galaxy formation .",
    "observations of galaxy evolution are flourishing as never before , thanks to the availability of the 8 metre - class telescopes .",
    "imminent surveys with keck and vlt will provide samples of @xmath0 galaxies at @xmath85 with sufficient spectral resolution to study stellar population and star formation rate evolution .",
    "theory lags far behind the data .",
    "our best hope may be to construct a phenomenological model that incorporates the successes of the numerical simulations and of the semianalytic studies .",
    "this will surely involve a backwards approach , using the nearby universe to effectively simulate the universe at redshift unity .",
    "this has already been done , apart from the essential complication now under intensive study of developing the small - scale ( stellar and interstellar ) physics input that is so crucial for understanding and modelling feedback .",
    "refining this model with the new data sets that we anticipate from the deimos and virmos surveys , we can then hope to take the next step backwards in time by developing predictions for ngst and the 30 metre - class telescopes thare now under design study to probe the epoch of the first galaxies , at @xmath86 when reionization occurred .",
    "the future beckons brightly .",
    "abel , t. , bryan , g. and norman , m. 2000 , apj , 540 , 39 .",
    "balland , c. , devriendt , j. and silk 2002 , in preparation .",
    "balland , c. , silk , j. , & schaeffer , r. 1998 , , 497 , 541 .",
    "benson , a. et al .",
    "2000 , mnras , 311 , 793 .",
    "bernstein , r. , freedman , w. and madore , b. 2001 , astro - ph/0112170 , apj , in press .",
    "binney , j. and evans , n. 2001 , astro - ph/0108505 , mnras , submitted .",
    "binney , j. , gerhard , o. and silk , j. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 471 .",
    "van den bosch , f. and swaters , r. 2001 , mnras , 325 , 1017 .",
    "cappellaro , e. et al .",
    "1997 , a&a , 322 , 431 .",
    "cioffi , d. , mckee , c. and bertschinger , e. 1988 , apj , 334 , 252 .",
    "cole , s. et al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 326 , 255 .",
    "couchman , h. and thacker , r. 2001 , apj , 555 , l17 .",
    "dalcanton , j. spergel , d. and summers , f. 1997 , apj , 482 , 659 .",
    "debattista , v. and sellwood , j. 2000 , apj , 543 , 704 .",
    "devriendt , j. and guiderdoni , b. 2000 , a&a , 363 , 851 .",
    "devriendt , j. , guiderdoni , b. , & sadat , r. 1999 , , 350 , 381 .",
    "devriendt , j. , slyz , a. and silk , j. 2002 , submitted .",
    "ferguson , a. and johnson , r. 2001 , apj , 559 , l13 .",
    "ferreras , i. and silk , j. 2000 , apj , 541 , l37 .",
    "firmani , c. and avila - reese , v. 2000 , mnras , 315 , 457 .",
    "firmani , c. , hernandez , x. and gallagher , j. 1996 , a&a , 308 , 403 .",
    "gammie , c. , ostriker , e. and jog , c. 1991 , 378 , 565 .",
    "ghigna , s. et al .",
    "2000 , apj , 544 , 616 .",
    "heckman , t. et al .",
    "2000 , apjs , 129 , 493 .",
    "heiles , c. 2000 , astro - ph/0010047 , to appear in the proceedings of _ the fourth tetons summer conference : galactic structure , stars and the interstellar medium .",
    "_ howk , j. c. et al .",
    "2001 , astro - ph/0109224 , apj ( in press ) .",
    "jing , y. and suto , y. 2000 , astro - ph/0001288 , 4th rescue symposium on birth and evolution of the universe , in press .",
    "kauffmann , g. & haehnelt , m. 2000 , mnras , 311 , 576 .",
    "kim , s. et al .",
    "1999 , aj , 118 , 2797 .",
    "klypin , a. et al .",
    "2001 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 554 , 903 .",
    "lin , d. and pringle , j. 1987 , apj , 320 , l87 .",
    "martin , c. 1999 , apj , 513 , 156 .",
    "mo , h. , mao , s. and white , s. 1988 , mnras , 295 , 319 .",
    "moore , b. et al .",
    "1999 , mnras , 304 , 465 .",
    "navarro , j. and steinmetz , m. 2000 , apj , 538 , 477 .",
    "oey , m. , clarke , c. and massey , p. 2001 , astro - ph/0103302 , in _ dwarf galaxies and their environment _ , eds .",
    "de boer , k. , dettmar , k. and u. klein , in press .",
    "richter , p. et al .",
    "2001 , astro - ph/0110279 , apj letters , in press .",
    "silk , j. 1997 , apj , 481 , 703 .",
    "silk , j. 2001 , mnras .",
    "324 , 313 .",
    "silk , j. and norman , c. 1981 , apj , 247 , 59 .",
    "silk , j. , & devriendt , j. 2001 , in _ the extragalactic infrared background and its cosmological implications _ , iau symposium 204 , eds .",
    "m. harwit and m. hauser , in press .",
    "sommer - larsen , j. 2002 , in preparation .",
    "stark , a. and brand , j. 1989 , apj , 339 , 763 .",
    "somerville , r. & primack , j. 1999 , mnras , 310 , 1087 .",
    "vollmer , b. and beckert , t. 2001 , astro - ph/0111411 , a&a , in press .",
    "wada , k. and norman , c. 1999 , apj , 516 , l13 .",
    "wada , k. and norman , c. 2001 , apj , 547 , 172 .",
    "weil , m. , eke , v. and efstathiou , g. 1998 , mnras , 300 , 773 .",
    "williams , j. and mckee , c. 1997 , apj , 476 , 166 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i describe some of the current challenges in galaxy formation theory with applications to formation of disks and of spheroids . </S>",
    "<S> forthcoming deep surveys of galaxies with keck and vlt will provide high quality spectra of @xmath0 galaxies that will probe stellar populations and star formation rates at redshift unity . </S>",
    "<S> this will help refine our phenomenological knowledge of galaxy evolution and enable robust predictions to be developed for future breakthroughs in understanding galaxy formation at high redshift that are anticipated with ngst and with the proposed new generation of 30 metre - class telescopes .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in    # 1#2#3#4 # 1#2 </S>"
  ]
}