{
  "article_text": [
    "there has been considerable controversy over a long period about whether the distribution of galaxies in the universe is homogeneous on large scales , or whether structure might persist indefinitely in the manner of fractal ( e.g. coleman & pietronero 1992 , hereafter cp92 ; peebles 1993 ) .",
    "this debate revolves around the validity of the cosmological principle on scales up to the present observational depth of galaxy surveys .",
    "the assumption of homogeneity plays such an important role in cosmology that it is important to establish its validity in the most rigorous possible manner using the most appropriate statistical tools . instead of the usual two - point correlation function , @xmath1 , which assumes homogeneity at the outset",
    ", these studies usually exploit a function known as the conditional density , which does not assume that the global mean density of points @xmath2 is determined by the sample in question , or even that it exists at all .",
    "the global mean density for a fractal set is not a useful concept in any case ( coleman et al 1988 ; cp92 ) . for non - fractal set",
    "for which the mean density is well - defined , the conditional density @xmath3 is related to the usual two - point correlation function via @xmath4 one of the consequences of a fractal distribution is that the quantity @xmath5 has a power - law dependency on scale : @xmath6 where @xmath7 is ( loosely ) called the fractal dimension ; see later for more rigorous definitions .",
    "a simple fractal will have a constant value of @xmath7 , whereas a structure that tends towards uniformity will have @xmath8 at some scale .",
    "some authors have claimed to have found a transition from quasi - fractal behaviour on small scales to a homogeneous behaviour on large scales , with a crossover depth around @xmath9 mpc ( @xmath10 is hubble s constant in units of 100 km s@xmath11 mpc@xmath11 ) .",
    "examples of data sets analysed this way include the perseus - pisces survey ( guzzo et al .",
    "1991 ) , the cfa slice ( lemson & sanders 1991 ) , the eso slice project ( scaramella et al .",
    "1998 ) and the las campanas redshift survey ( kurokawa , morikawa & mouri 2001 ) .",
    "there are other papers in support of homogeneity on large scale , but advocating a different scale at which the transition occurs ( hatton 1999 ; bharadwaj , gupta & seshadri 1999 ) .    on the other hand ,",
    "advocates of a purely fractal universe argue that , up to the presently - observed scales , there is no indication of such a transition at all and that the apparent crossover at @xmath12 mpc claim is spurious .",
    "possible causes of this spurious detection are : the use of inappropriate statistical tools , i.e. the two - point correlation @xmath1 ; errors resulting from uncertainties in the k - correction ; misleading boundary corrections ; and so on ( e.g. cp92 ; sylos labini et al 1996 ; joyce et al 1999 ; best 2000 ) . in this paper",
    "we address the last of these issues , the one which is most often flagged as a possible mechanism for forcing a fractal distribution to display a false signature of homogeneity .",
    "previous papers have examined the behaviour of the conditional density under various forms of boundary correction , with the conclusion is that @xmath5 and consequently the scale of the crossover are almost independent of such boundary corrections ( lemson & sanders 1991 ; provenzale , guzzo & murante 1994 ) .",
    "these arguments are largely based on their analysis of cfa and mock data sets .    in this work",
    "we examine the effect on the correlation integral ( ci ) , mathematically the integral form of the conditional density mentioned above ( grassberger & procaccia 1983 ; borgani 1995 ) .",
    "boundary corrections appear more explicitly in the ci approach than with the conditional density , which has led to a criticism of this approach ( cp92 ; marcelo & alexandre 1998 ; sylos labini et al 1996 ) .",
    "however , the only method which is free from any possible effect of boundaries is one in which no correction is used at all ( e.g. pietronero , montuori & labini 1997 ) .",
    "this inevitably reduces the effective depth of the survey and reduces the number of galaxies .",
    "this , in turn , makes it harder to see any transition to homogeneity and reduces the statistical confidence of any analysis method .",
    "the motivation for this work is to find a recipe for dealing with boundary effects that offers a reasonable compromise between full use of the catalogues and the possible biases induced by boundary problems , as guide for future analysis of the forthcoming catalogues , such as the 2df galaxy redshift survey ( colless et al .",
    "it is also important to establish the robustness of the results we obtained in a previous paper for the pscz ( pan & coles 2000 , hereafter pc ) in the light of this comparison .",
    "we will begin in section 2 with brief description of the ci and discuss the role of boundary corrections in section 3 . in section 4",
    "we apply the different methods to some illustrative examples .",
    "we then , in section 5 , we revisit the pscz survey studied by pc , alongside mock catalogues made from n - body simulations .",
    "the conclusions and a discussion are in section 6 .",
    "the measure we use for fractal dimension estimation is constructed from the partition function , @xmath13 with @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is the count of objects in the cell of radius @xmath16 centered upon an object labelled by @xmath17 ( which is not included in the count ) . for each value of @xmath18 in equation ( 3 ) correponding to relevant moment of the cell - count , one can have a different scaling exponent of the set @xmath19 , which induces the so - called renyi dimensions : @xmath20 forming the spectrum of fractal dimensions for a fractal measure on the sample .",
    "the terminology applied to a set in which the @xmath21 are functions of @xmath18 is a _",
    "multifractal_. the special case @xmath22 for @xmath23 can not be obtained from equation ( 3 ) but should be derived from @xmath24 where @xmath25 is the partition _ entropy _ of the measure on the sample set ; @xmath22 is consequently termed the information dimension ( fedar 1988 ) .",
    "the special case @xmath26 leads to the definition of @xmath27 , described in equation ( 3 ) .",
    "this is the most important exponent in this context and is generally called the correlation dimension . as stated above ,",
    "it is related to the usual two - point correlation function @xmath1 for a sample displaying large - scale homogeneity ( peebles 1980 ) .",
    "if the mean number of neighbours around a given point is @xmath2 then @xmath28s^2 ds.\\ ] ] in this case @xmath29 means @xmath30 .",
    "a homogeneous distribution has @xmath31 , whereas a power - law in @xmath32 yields @xmath33 .    to account for edge effects and the selection function",
    ", we have to weight local count around @xmath17th object according to @xmath34 and @xmath35 for magnitude ( or flux ) limited sample @xmath36 is exactly the luminuosity selection function , while @xmath37 for volume limited sample .",
    "it is in the weighting factor @xmath38 that the question of appropriate boundary corrections is most important .",
    "in the literature , there are two standard ways of handling boundary corrections in this type of analysis .",
    "the obvious one is the _ capacity correction _ which has been used in a series of papers analysing galaxy catalogues ( martnez & coles 1994 ; pan & coles 2000 ) and cluster catalogues ( borgani & martnez et al . 1994 ) . in this prescription , counts for those cells near the boundary are weighted by a factor @xmath38 determined by the capacity ( for 3-dimensions this is the volume ) of the cell with radius @xmath16 included within the sample space .",
    "this is probably the most natural idea how to perform a boundary correction , but it may give rise to artificial homogeneity of the sample , as pointed out for example by cp92 .",
    "consider the example of a ball of radius @xmath16 with points inside it distributed according to a density law @xmath39 with @xmath40 .",
    "if we extend the cell count around the ball s centre to scale @xmath41 using the capacity correction , we will be extrapolating the count to scale @xmath42 with the law of @xmath43 .",
    "this criticism is made forcefully by those advocating the purely fractal picture .",
    "a radical way to circumvent this problem is to discard any cells not completely contained within the sample space ; we name this the _ deflation method _ in this paper .",
    "the @xmath44 in equations ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) is then not the total number of galaxies but the number of those left after elimination .",
    "this correction has been used quite often in estimates based on the conditional density ( e.g. cp92 ) .",
    "the largest scale that can be detected when this method is used is the radius of the biggest sphere that can be entirely fitted into the sample space .",
    "this is defined to be the _ effective sample radius _ @xmath45 and is very much less than the real depth of most samples , especially ` pencil - beam ' or fan surveys , or surveys containing holes due to variations in completeness of sky coverage .",
    "this correction greatly cut down the effectiveness of such surveys .",
    "typically , for a sample of depth @xmath46 mpc , the effective depth can be as small as @xmath47 mpc .",
    "this is not an efficient use of the data .",
    "a second crucial shortcoming of this approach is that it is statistically unreasonable . as the size of a cell @xmath42",
    "is increased , the number of cells remaining in the sample decreases until the effective sample radius @xmath45 is reached . on large scales , therefore , the correlation integral is usually dominated by a few cells around galaxies with located at particular places within the survey geometry . in the sense of statistics",
    "this is rather unfair : the measure @xmath48 is averaged over large number of cells on small scales , while very few are included on large scales .",
    "this reduces the statistical significance of measured values quite considerably for cells of size similar to the effective radius .",
    "note also that some authors ( e.g. cp92 ) , have used the conditional density about the observer rather than around individual galaxies because of the impossibility of reaching scales larger than @xmath45 .",
    "they have thus inferred the validity of a fractal picture up to about a few hundred megaparsec .",
    "this is highly misleading .",
    "first of all , a power - law around one peculiar point is not proof of fractal scaling .",
    "the behaviour of @xmath5 around the observer is a special event and should not be used as a description of general property of the sample .",
    "furthermore , the @xmath5 is based on the points located almost at the sample s centre when @xmath16 is close to @xmath45 , but in case of @xmath49 , @xmath5 is based entirely on the observing point .",
    "these are not measuring the same thing , so any claimed inhomogeneity based on such an approach begs the question .",
    "of course any boundary correction has to rely on some assumption about the distribution of points beyond the sample boundary , and to some extent this inevitably leads to a bias of some kind .",
    "we have to be aware of what kind of bias this is , and what the statistical consequences are so that we can interpret our results in a reasonable way .",
    "the discussion above indicates that the two conventional prescriptions , the capacity and deflation corrections , do not succeed in these aims .",
    "we therefore need to find new ways to perform a more suitable edge correction .",
    "any useful new method should make minimal assumptions while making maximal use of the information contained within the sample .    in this spirit , we propose a third correction : the _ angular correction_. this proposal stems from the realisation that the appropriate measure in equation ( 3 ) relates to a scaling law that depends only on the radius @xmath16 and which has nothing to do with the angles . from this point of view",
    ", we can construct a correction relying on the solid angular occupation of the sample relative to the cell s centre , as illustrated in figure 1 .",
    "the correction requires two steps , the first of which resembles the capacity correction in fixing the factor @xmath38 and the second is similar to the deflation method when counting neighbours . for a point @xmath17 in the sample ,",
    "we calculate @xmath50 $ ] as the solid angle subtended at the point in question by intersection of a sphere of radius @xmath16 with the boundary .",
    "let s mark the joint space of the cones in the sphere opened by these solid angles @xmath51 , then correspondingly during neighbour counting process the points belonging to @xmath51 are excluded .",
    "we can increase @xmath16 for detection until either one of the correction factors equals zero .",
    "the underlying assumption of this method is of statistical isotropy .",
    "the capacity correction relies on homogeneity too , because it incorporates an extra correction to the radial part of the cell count . in this correction ,",
    "the availability of a sample point depends on its largest distance to a boundary in contrast to the deflation method where it is the smallest scale that counts .",
    "this does increase significantly the usable depth of the sample .",
    "the maximum scale that can guarantee that all sample points are available , which keeps the measure statistically fair , is the smallest one of the largest distances of these points to the boundary surface .",
    "it is hard to show analytically how much these boundary correction methods reflect the true scaling behavior of samples and which one is the best order from the menu of edge corrections .",
    "we have instead to turn to numerical tests .",
    "since we are talking about fractal analysis , it will be worthwhile to consider these methods in the context of a simple fractal set with known dimension .",
    "after establishing the results of this we can understand their effects on real samples and catalogues from n - body simulation .",
    "the form of the sample boundary will itself play a role in determining the importance of boundary corrections .",
    "since these are primarily for illustration of the possible pitfalls , and we ca nt in any case simulate every possible boundary of every possible sample , we will proceed using sets with relatively simple boundaries .",
    "let us just start with a monofractal sample with dimension @xmath7 , which is obtained by the simple lvy flight ( meakin 1998 ) . in this case , the @xmath7 coincides with the correlation dimension @xmath27 .",
    "the lvy flight is one species of fractal brownian random walk with variable step size @xmath52 , such that the probability of @xmath52 exceeding a particular value @xmath53 satisfies @xmath54 which leads to a fractal point set of dimension @xmath7 on scales @xmath55 ( mandelbrot , 1977 )",
    ". the parameter @xmath56 here plays the role as the minimum step size of the random walk .",
    "we construct a cube - shaped sample of @xmath57 , roughly that observed in galaxy clustering .",
    "we use a test volume of @xmath58 mpc , and set up the minimum step size @xmath59 mpc .",
    "the correlation integrals obtained using the different edge treatments discussed in section 3 are shown in figure 2 and the dimensions obtained in different domains are listed in table 1 . because we set the minimum step size of the lvy walk to be @xmath60 mpc , it is not surprising that the correlation integrals below @xmath61 mpc , where they are dominated by discreteness , are quite steep .",
    "when @xmath62 , the capacity correction obviously contaminates the estimation badly .",
    "larger and larger values of the dimension are obtained with increasing scale ; this trend is entirely spurious .",
    "the deflation method provides better answer but the local dimension in this case fluctuates wildly around the true value , which may arise from the fact that what we measure with equation ( 3 ) on different scales is effectively coming from a different point set .",
    "the performance of angular correction is promisingly steady and it accurately recovers the true dimension , which encourages our conjecture that this one is superior to the others .",
    ".correlation dimensions @xmath27 for different scale ranges of the lvy flight generated sample with @xmath57 .",
    "errors are from goodness - of - fit considerations only .",
    "@xmath63 indicates the largest available scale as discussed in text for angular correction and deflation method . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we have investigated the treatment of edge effects for the fractal analysis based on the correlation integral ( ci ) for various samples . generally speaking , on small scales ,",
    "the ci is almost unaffected by boundary correction just because there are only a few points in the vicinity of boundaries .",
    "finite size and discreteness effects can blur the real dimension on very small scales , however .",
    "the proper scaling law has to be sought on scales above some critical scale @xmath64 to avoid this problem . determining the scale that one needs to reach is not trivial .",
    "it has been argued on the basis of a voronoi ( 1908 ) model that this scale needs to be about an order of magnitude larger than the voronoi tesselation radius @xmath65 in such a model ( sylos labini et al .",
    "1996 ) , where @xmath66 is the voronoi volume and @xmath67 is of order of the mean separation between the voronoi nuclei . however , the more relevant criterion for the analysis of very deep samples like pscz is that one simply has to have enough galaxies in the sample to get reliable statistical estimates of the correlation dimension .    on sufficiently large scales ,",
    "different boundary corrections lead to differences in estimates of statistics extracted from the ci .",
    "the capacity correction can introduce extra homogeneity into the ci , while the deflation method reduces the number of available points and can consequently generate big fluctuations and lower statistical significance in the ci .",
    "the angular correction leads to a reasonable compromise between the two former effects , although it is difficult to apply it to real samples if they have a complicated geometry , especially if there are holes inside .",
    "however in practice the uncertainties introduced by boundary effects depend on the properties of samples under analysis . in a pure fractal set or sample",
    "not reaching the homogeneity scale , capacity correction can fool people into thinking that the transition to homogeneity has been observed . in samples",
    "whose size extends beyond the transition scale like the pscz mock catalogues , boundary corrections have only a trivial importance in the analysis .",
    "this is a similar conclusion to that reached by lemson & sanders ( 1991 ) and provenzale , guzzo & murante ( 1994 ) , although they used the conditional density @xmath5 rather than the ci which we discuss here .    whatever the case , it is clear that the capacity correction is _ not _ the most suitable for exploring the scaling laws for clustering displayed by galaxy samples .",
    "the angular correction we propose has less bias and produces less fluctuations than the others .",
    "of course the relative merits of the different approaches depend on the precise details of survey shape and sampling properties . in general one",
    "should establish the reliability of a given result by examining the range of methods .",
    "even the deflation method , though not optimal , can still be used as auxiliary method to get an idea of uncertainties or fluctuations .",
    "our analysis of cfa2-south sample shows that it is indeed fractal , with dimension @xmath68 up to @xmath69 mpc ; there is no sign of tendency toward a homogeneous distribution in this data set .",
    "it is known that infrared galaxies distribute more homogeneously than galaxies selected via their luminosity in the optical band .",
    "infrared galaxies are less likely to be found in the inner parts of rich clusters , for example .",
    "this may account for the contradiction between the two samples .",
    "we can nevertheless expect that the completion of the next generation of large - scale redshift surveys , will establish a transition to homogeneity with a scale somewhere around @xmath9 mpc .",
    "the application to subsamples of the pscz survey indicates that the features of the distribution of infrared galaxies above scale @xmath70 mpc are not modified by any reasonable boundary correction , which in turn provides further supporting evidence for a universe which is homogeneous on large scales .",
    "it remains difficult to put strict error bars on the results , but we can use the values generated by three treatments to get an idea of the errors . this constrains the dimension @xmath27 to lie in the range @xmath71 on large scales , assuring the validity of the results in pc .",
    "the qdot survey is one subset of the present pscz catalogue , thus the analysis of it by martnez & coles ( 1994 ) are also supported .",
    "moreover , the observed data behave in precisely the same manner as the simulation results which are based on cosmologies in which the cosmological principle applies .",
    "however , this satisfying confirmation may not extend to other samples that have produces claims of large - scale homogeneity .",
    "for example , we have strong reason to suspect that the claimed tendency - to - homogeneity of the cluster samples from abell and aco catalogues by borgani & martnez ( 1994 ) may not be real , and the distribution of these clusters remains somewhat uncertain , owing to the use of the capacity correction in that study .",
    "the difference between angular and capacity dimensions is much smaller when the conditional density is used .",
    "the authors wish to acknowledge dr spyros basilakos for providing mock pscz catalogues from n - body simulation ; we would also like to thank the anonymous referee for useful criticism and very helpful suggestions .",
    "jun pan receives an ors award from the cvcp .",
    "beacom j.f . ,",
    "dominik k.g . ,",
    "melott a.l . , 1991 , apj , 372 , 351 best j.s . , 2000 , apj , 541 , 519 bharadwaj s. , gupta a.k .",
    ", seshadri t.r . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 351 , 405 borgani s. , 1995 , phys . rep .",
    "251 , 1 borgani s. , martnez v.j .",
    ", prez m.a . , valdarnini r. , 1994 , apj , 435 , 37 castagnoli c. , provenzale a. , 1991 , a&a , 246 , 634 cole s. , hatton s. , weinberg d.h .",
    ", frenk c.s . , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 945 coleman p.h . ,",
    "pietronero l. , sanders r.h . , 1988 , a&a . , 200 , l32 coleman p.h . , pietronero l. , 1992 , phys .",
    ", 231 , 311 colless m. et al . , 2001 , mnras , submitted , astro - ph/0106498 fedar j. , 1988 , _ fractals _ , plenum press , new york grassberger p. , procaccia i. , 1983 , physica 9d , 189 guzzo l. , iovino a. , chincarini g. , giovanelli r. , haynes m. p. , 1991 ,",
    "apj , 382 , l5 hatton s. , 1999 , mnras , 310 , 1128 joyce m. , montuori m. , sylos labini f. , 1999 , apj , 514 , l5 kurokawa t. , morikawa m. , mouri h. , 1999 , a&a , 344,1 kurokawa t. , morikawa m. , mouri h. , 2001 , a&a , 370 , 358 lemson g. , sanders r.h . , 1991 , mnras , 252 , 319 mandelbrot b.b . , 1977 , _ fractals _ , freeeman , san francisco marcelo b.r .",
    ", alexandre y.m . , 1998 , braz .",
    "j. phys . , 28 , 132 ( astro - ph/9803218 ) martnez v.j . , coles p. , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 437 , 550 meakin p. , 1998",
    ", _ fractal , scaling and growth far from equilibrium _ , cambridge university press pan j. ,",
    "coles p. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , l51 ( pc ) park c. , vogeley m.s . , geller m.j .",
    ", huchra j.p . , 1994 , apj , 431 , 569 peebles p.j.e . , 1980 , _ the large scale structure of the universe_. princeton university press , princeton peebles p.j.e . , 1993 , _ principles of physical cosmology _ , princeton university press , princeton pietronero l. , montuori m. , labini f.s . , 1997 , _ critical dialogues in cosmology _ , ed .",
    "turok n. , world scientific , singapore ( astro - ph/9611197 ) provenzale a. , guzzo l. , murante g. , 1994 , mnras , 266 , 555 saunders w. et al",
    ". , 2000 , mnras , 317 , 557 sylos labini f. , gabrielli a. , montuori m. , & pietronero l. , 1996 , physica a , 226 , 195 voronoi j. , 1908 , reine angew . math .",
    ", 134 , 198"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the analysis of redshift surveys with fractal tools requires one to apply some form of statistical correction for galaxies lying near the geometric boundary of the sample . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we compare three different methods of performing such a correction upon estimates of the correlation integral in order to assess the extent to which estimates may be biased by boundary terms . </S>",
    "<S> we apply the corrections illustrative examples , including a simple fractal set ( lvy flight ) , a random @xmath0-model , and a subset of the cfa2 southern cap survey . </S>",
    "<S> this study shows that the new `` angular '' correction method we present is more generally applicable than the other methods used to date : the conventional `` capacity '' correction imposes a bias towards homogeneity , and the `` deflation '' method discards large - scale information , and consequently reduces the statistical usefulness of data sets . </S>",
    "<S> the `` angular '' correction method is effective at recovering true fractal dimensions , although the extent to which boundary corrections are important depends on the form of fractal distribution assumed as well as the details of the survey geometry . </S>",
    "<S> we also show that the cfa2 southern sample does not show any real evidence of a transition to homogeneity . </S>",
    "<S> we then revisit the iras pscz survey and `` mock '' pscz catalogues made using n - body simulations of two different cosmologies . </S>",
    "<S> the results we obtain from the pscz survey are not significantly affected by the form of boundary correction used , confirming that the transition from fractal to homogeneous behaviour reported by pan & coles ( 2000 ) is real .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology : theory  large - scale structure of the universe  methods : statistical </S>"
  ]
}