{
  "article_text": [
    "most of the pulsar spin - down power is carried away by a relativistic , magnetized wind .",
    "the pulsar wind injects this energy into the surrounding nebula in the form of relativistic electron - positron pairs and magnetic fields therefore such nebulae , or plerions , emit synchrotron radiation from the radio to the gamma - ray band .",
    "the most famous and well studied example of the plerion is the crab nebula ; the spectrum of this source is measured from about 10 mhz to dozens tev . according to mhd models ( rees & gunn 1974 ; kennel & coroniti 1984 ; emmering & chevalier 1987 ; begelman & li 1992 ) , the pulsar wind terminates in a standing shock at a radius defined by the condition that the confining pressure balances the momentum flux of the wind . in the crab case ,",
    "the shock radius was estimated to be @xmath1 cm in excellent agreement with observations ; according to chandra results ( weisskopf et al .",
    "2000 ) , the radius of the shock in the equatorial plane is @xmath2 cm . the observed brightness and the spectral index distributions are generally consistent with the assumption that the relativistic particles are accelerated at the termination shock and then fill in the nebula , spending the acquired energy on synchrotron emission and @xmath3 work .",
    "the generic observational feature of plerions is a flat radio spectrum ; the spectral flux may be presented as a power law function of the frequency , @xmath4 , with the spectral index @xmath5 . at high frequencies the spectrum steepens and",
    "the typical spectral slope in the x - ray band is @xmath6 .",
    "the overall spectrum of the crab may be described as a broken power law with the spectral breaks around @xmath7 hz , few@xmath8 hz and around 100 kev .",
    "the synchrotron lifetime of the radio emitting electrons ( and positrons , below by electrons i mean both electrons and positrons ) significantly exceeds the plerion age therefore one can not exclude a priori that they were injected at the very early stage of the plerion evolution ( kennel & coroniti 1984 ; atoyan 1999 ) . in this case",
    "the overall spectrum depends on history of the nebula .",
    "however the spectral break at @xmath7 hz may be simply accounted for the synchrotron burn off effect assuming that particles emitting from the radio to the optical bands are injected more or less homogeneously in time with the single power law energy distribution .",
    "this view is strongly supported by gallant & tuffs ( 1999 , 2002 ) who found that the infra - red spectral index in the central parts of the crab is close to that in the radio , and gradually steepens outward .",
    "recent observations of wisps in the radio band ( bietenholz & kronberg 1992 ; bietenholtz , frail & hester 2001 ) suggest unambiguously that the radio emitting electrons are accelerated now in the same region as the ones responsible for the optical to x - ray emission .",
    "if the radio emitting electrons have been injecting into the crab nebula till the present time , the injection rate of electrons should be about @xmath9 s@xmath10 .",
    "it is interesting that the observed pulsed optical emission from the crab pulsar suggests that about the same amount of electrons is ejected from the pulsar magnetosphere ( shklovsky 1970 ) so the pulsar does supply the necessary amount of particles .",
    "the observed spectral slope in the radio band , @xmath11 , implies the energy distribution of the injected electrons of the form @xmath12 . in this case , most of the particles find themselves at the low energy end of the distribution whereas particles at the upper end of the distribution dominate the energy density of the plasma .",
    "taking into account that no sign of a low frequency cut - off is observed in the crab spectrum down to about 10 mhz whereas the high frequency break lies in the ultra - violet band ( recall that the break at about @xmath7 hz is attributed to synchrotron cooling but not to the injected energy distribution ) , one concludes that the above distribution extends from @xmath13 mev to @xmath14 mev . at @xmath15",
    "the distribution becomes steeper ; the spectral slope in the x - ray band , @xmath16 , corresponds , with account for the synchrotron burn off effect , to @xmath17 . the distribution further steepens at @xmath18 mev as it follows from the gamma - ray spectrum of the nebula .",
    "thus the injected electrons have a very wide energy distribution , their number density being dominated by low energy electrons whereas the plasma energy density being dominated by tev electrons .",
    "the above considerations place severe limits on the pulsar wind parameters and possible mechanisms of the particle acceleration at the termination shock . according to the widespread view",
    ", the pulsars emit poynting - dominated winds however the electro - magnetic energy is efficiently transferred to the plasma flow such that the magnetization parameter @xmath0 , defined as the ratio of the poynting flux to the kinetic energy flux , is already very small when the flow enters the termination shock .",
    "the mechanisms of such an energy transfer still remain unclear ( the so called @xmath0-problem ) however dynamics of the flow in the nebula suggests that the magnetic pressure is small just beyond the termination shock , which implies that the poynting flux just upstream the shock is very small ( rees & gunn 1974 ; kundt & krotscheck 1980 ; kennel & coroniti 1984 ; emmering & chevalier 1987 ; begelman & li 1992 ) . in this case",
    "it is kinetic energy of the upstream flow that converts into the energy of accelerated particles when the plasma flow is randomized at the shock .",
    "then the characteristic downstream `` temperature '' is about the upstream particle kinetic energy , @xmath19 , so the average particle energy does not vary considerably across the shock . a high energy tail may be formed in the particle energy distribution ( the particle acceleration at the relativistic shocks is considered by hoshino et al .",
    "( 1992 ) ; gallant & arons ( 1994 ) ; bednarz & ostrowski ( 1998 ) ; gallant & achterberg ( 1999 ) ; kirk et al .",
    "( 2000 ) ; achterberg et al .",
    "( 2001 ) ) however this tail merges , at its low energy end , with the quasi - thermal distribution at @xmath20 .",
    "therefore if the pulsar spin - down power , @xmath21 , is converted into the kinetic energy of the wind , the available upper limit on the low - frequency break in the crab spectrum suggests that the wind lorentz - factor , @xmath22 , does not exceed few hundred .    on the other hand , the observed flat spectrum may be formed only if the energy per electron in the wind is much larger than @xmath23 .",
    "gallant et al.(2002 ) , modifying the original idea of hoshino et al .",
    "( 1992 ) and gallant & arons ( 1994 ) , suggested that the wind is loaded by ions ; in this case the radio emitting electrons are accelerated by resonant absorption of ion cyclotron waves collectively emitted at the shock front . the necessary ion injection rate , @xmath24 s@xmath10 , vastly exceeds the fiducial goldreich - julian elementary charge loss rate , @xmath25 s@xmath10 .",
    "although one can not exclude by observations that pulsars emit the required amount of ions , the available pulsar models do not assume an ion outflow with the rate exceeding the goldreich - julian charge loss rate ( cheng & ruderman 1980 ; arons 1983 ) .",
    "here i consider an alternative possibility , which does not imply a radical modification of the basic pulsar model . in the equatorial belt of the wind from an obliquely rotating pulsar magnetosphere , the sign of the magnetic field alternates with the pulsar period forming stripes of opposite magnetic polarity ( michel 1971 , 1982 ; coroniti 1990 ; bogovalov 1999 ) .",
    "observations of x - ray tori around pulsars ( weisskopf et al .",
    "2000 ; helfand , gotthelf & halpern 2001 ; gaensler , pivovaroff & garmire 2001 ; pavlov et al .",
    "2001 ; gaensler et al . 2002 ; lu et al .",
    "2002 ) suggest that it is in the equatorial belt where most of the wind energy is transported ; theoretical models ( e.g. , bogovalov s ( 1999 ) solution for the oblique split monopole magnetosphere ) support this conclusion .",
    "therefore the fate of the striped wind is of special interest . in the striped wind ,",
    "the poynting flux converts into the particle energy flux when the oppositely directed magnetic fields annihilate ( coroniti 1990 ; lyubarsky & kirk 2001 , henceforth lk ; lyutikov 2002 ; kirk & skjraasen 2003 ) . until now",
    "this dissipation mechanism was considered only in the unshocked wind .",
    "it was found that the flow acceleration in the course of the energy release dilates the dissipation timescale so that the wind may enter the termination shock before the alternating field annihilates completely . in this case driven annihilation of the magnetic field at the shock",
    "may provide the energy necessary to form the flat particle distribution . on the other hand ,",
    "the formed distribution may extend down to low enough energy because the kinetic energy of the flow in the striped wind is lower than the total energy .",
    "the aim of this research is to consider properties of the termination shock in the striped wind .",
    "it will be shown that the alternating field completely annihilates at the shock so that the downstream parameters of the flow are the same as if the field has already annihilated upstream the shock .",
    "therefore the available limits on the upstream magnetization parameter , @xmath0 , should be attributed not to the total poynting flux but to the poynting flux associated with the averaged magnetic field ( see also rees & gunn 1974 ; kundt & krotscheck 1980 ) .",
    "the upstream flow may be poynting dominated provided most of the poynting flux is transferred by alternating magnetic field .",
    "on the other hand , driven reconnection of the magnetic field within the shock radically alter the particle acceleration process .",
    "it follows from both analytical and numerical studies that particles are readily accelerated in the course of the magnetic field reconnection to form the energy distribution with the power - law index @xmath26 ( romanova & lovelace 1992 ; zenitani & hoshino 2001 ; larrabee , lovelace & romanova 2002 ) .",
    "electrons with such a distribution emit synchrotron radiation with a flat spectrum therefore romanova & lovelace ( 1992 ) and birk , crusius - wtzel & lesch ( 2001 ) suggested that reconnection plays a crucial role in flat spectrum extragalactic radio sources .",
    "one can naturally assume that radio emission of plerions is generated by electrons accelerated in the course of reconnection of the alternating magnetic field at the pulsar wind termination shock .",
    "then the steeper high - energy spectrum may be attributed to the fermi acceleration of particles preaccelerated in the reconnection process .",
    "a simple model for the particle acceleration in the shocked striped wind is presented here .",
    "it will be shown that the minimal energy of the power law energy distribution may be low in this case , even less then the upstream kinetic energy , whereas the energy density of the plasma will be dominated by high - energy electrons in agreement with the observed spectra of plerions .",
    "the article is organized as follows .",
    "jump conditions for a shock in the striped wind are obtained in sect .",
    "2 . making use of these jump conditions i demonstrate in sect .",
    "3 that the alternating magnetic field dissipates completely at the pulsar wind termination shock . in sect .",
    "i discuss particle acceleration by driven reconnection .",
    "particle acceleration at the shock in the striped wind is analyzed in sect .",
    "the obtained results are summarized in sect .",
    "let us find jump conditions for a shock in a flow with an alternating magnetic field .",
    "the plasma upstream the shock is assumed to be cold everywhere with the exception of narrow current sheets separating stripes with opposite magnetic polarity .",
    "the pressure balance implies that the magnetic field strength in adjacent stripes differs only by sign but not by the absolute value ; on the other hand the width of stripes with opposite polarity may not be the same so that the average magnetic field may be nonzero ( fig .",
    "1 ) . one generally finds jump conditions from the conservation laws and some prescription for the magnetic flux passing the shock . in the standard mhd shock",
    ", the magnetic flux is conserved ; in the case under consideration one should choose more general prescription to take into account possible annihilation of the magnetic field at the shock .",
    "outside the shock , the magnetic field is frozen into the plasma , @xmath27 . in the case of interest",
    "the magnetic field lies in the plane of the shock . in the frame",
    "where the flow velocity is perpendicular to the shock plane @xmath28 .",
    "then the faraday law may be written as @xmath29 together with the continuity equation @xmath30 this implies @xmath31 where @xmath32 and @xmath33 are the lorentz factor and the proper plasma density , correspondingly , and @xmath34 is a constant for each fluid element .",
    "the energy and momentum fluxes are @xmath35 @xmath36 where @xmath37 and @xmath38 are the gas pressure and specific enthalpy , correspondingly .",
    "taking into account the above considerations , one can write @xmath39 where the effective pressure and enthalpy are @xmath40 so the flow may be described by the hydrodynamical equations .    in the standard mhd theory , the magnetic flux conserves and the flow",
    "is considered as homogeneous both upstream and downstream the shock so that @xmath34 is a global constant . in our case",
    "@xmath34 is an alternating function of the lagrangian coordinate however only @xmath41 enters the conservation laws therefore the only essential difference from the standard mhd theory is that the modulus @xmath34 may decrease in the shock because of the field annihilation . let us introduce a parameter @xmath42 to measure decreasing in the magnetic flux across the shock .",
    "the indexes 1 and 2 are referred to quantities upstream and downstream the shock , correspondingly .",
    "one can express the downstream parameters via the upstream ones making use of the conservation of the particle , energy and momentum fluxes across the shock .",
    "radiation losses may be safely neglected at the shock width scale . in the striped wind",
    ", one should take the fluxes averaged over the wave period .",
    "let us assume , for the sake of simplicity , that the current sheets between the stripes are so narrow that one can neglect the contribution of the plasma within the sheets into the conserving fluxes .",
    "outside the sheets , the magnetic field and plasma density are constant across a stripe and the adjacent stripes are differ only by the sign of the magnetic field and by the width . taking into account that the energy and momentum fluxes are proportional to the magnetic field squared ,",
    "one can write the conservation laws like in the case of homogeneous magnetic field : @xmath43 @xmath44 @xmath45 the only formal difference from the case of the standard mhd shock is in the additional parameter @xmath46 ; in the standard shock @xmath47 .    one can resolve the above equations as follows .",
    "the plasma downstream the shock is relativistically hot , @xmath48 , therefore one can easily eliminate @xmath38 and @xmath37 from eq.(3 ) and express @xmath49 via @xmath50 and @xmath51 . substituting the obtained relation into eq.(7 ) , one then eliminates @xmath50 making use of eq.(6 ) and eliminates @xmath51 making use of eq.(5 ) .",
    "taking into account that the plasma upstream the shock is cold , @xmath52 and @xmath53 , one gets the resulting equation for the downstream velocity in the form @xmath54@xmath55 where @xmath56 is the magnetization parameter .",
    "this equation is exact . in case @xmath57",
    "one can take @xmath58 .",
    "then eq.(8 ) reduces to @xmath59 now the downstream parameters may be found explicitly : @xmath60 @xmath61 } } { 1+\\chi+\\sqrt{1 + 14\\chi+\\chi^2 } } ; \\eqno(11)\\ ] ] @xmath62@xmath63 where @xmath64    at @xmath47 one recovers the downstream parameters for the relativistic mhd shock in the homogeneous medium ( kennel & coroniti 1984 ; appl & camenzind 1988 ) . in this case",
    "the quantity @xmath65 is the ratio of the upstream poynting flux to the total energy flux . in a striped wind ,",
    "@xmath65 is determined by the poynting flux corresponding to the magnetic flux passed the shock .",
    "it will be shown in the next section that the alternating magnetic field annihilates completely at the pulsar wind termination shock ; then @xmath65 is simply the ratio of the poynting flux associated with the average magnetic field , @xmath66 , to the total energy flux . at the equator of the flow",
    "the average field is zero , @xmath67 , therefore one gets @xmath68 like at the nonmagnetized relativistic shock .",
    "when the average magnetic flux is large , @xmath69 , @xmath70 , the downstream flow is relativistic with the lorentz factor @xmath71",
    "in a striped wind , the magnetic field forms toroidal stripes of opposite polarity , separated by current sheets ( michel 1971 , 1982 ; bogovalov 1999 ) .",
    "such a structure arises in the equatorial belt of the pulsar wind and may be considered as an entropy wave propagating through the wind .",
    "usov ( 1975 ) and michel ( 1982 ) noticed that the waves must decay at large distances , since the current required to sustain them falls off as @xmath72 whereas the density of available charge carriers in the wind decreases as @xmath73 . hence the alternating magnetic fields should eventually annihilate .",
    "it was shown in lk that the distance beyond which the available charge carriers are unable to maintain the necessary current exceeds the radius of the standing shock where the wind terminates so that only some fraction of the magnetic energy is converted into the particle energy before the plasma reaches this shock front .",
    "this fraction depends on the magnetic field reconnection rate .",
    "a lower limit may be obtained assuming that the dissipation keeps the width of the current sheet to be equal to the particle larmor radius , which is roughly the same condition as that the current velocity is equal to the speed of light ( corontiti 1990 ; michel 1994 ; lk ) . then about 10% of the poynting flux dissipates before the wind reaches the termination shock . at higher reconnection rate",
    "the fraction of the dissipated energy is larger ; assuming that the reconnection velocity is as high as the sound velocity one can find that the alternating field annihilates completely before the flow enters the termination shock ( kirk & skjraasen 2003 ) . here",
    "i adopt the slow reconnection model by lk to estimate the flow parameters just upstream the termination shock .    neglecting the dependence of the wind parameters on latitude ,",
    "one can express them only via the pulsar spin - down power , @xmath21 , and the total amount of the ejected electrons , @xmath74 .",
    "lk used instead the ratio of the gyro - frequency at the light cylinder to the angular velocity of the neutron star and the so called multiplicity coefficient arising in the models of the pair production in pulsar magnetospheres .",
    "these parameters may be expressed via @xmath21 and @xmath74 taking into account that the magnetic field at the light cylinder is estimated as @xmath75 , where @xmath76 is the light cylinder radius , @xmath77 the pulsar period .",
    "the characteristic distance beyond which the available charge carriers are unable to maintain the necessary current ( eq.(14 ) in lk ) may be written as @xmath78 where @xmath79 is the electron charge .",
    "for the crab @xmath80 cm . note that the dimensionless parameter @xmath81 used by kirk & skjraasen ( 2003 ) is proportional to @xmath82 . in the poynting",
    "dominated flows , dissipation of even a small fraction of the poynting flux implies significant acceleration of the flow . while the dissipated energy is small , the lorentz factor of the wind ( eq.(30 ) in lk ) may be estimated as @xmath83 where @xmath84 is the lorentz factor attained by the wind if all the spin - down power is converted into the kinetic energy of the plasma .",
    "note that @xmath85 is the fraction of the spin - down power transferred to the plasma therefore the magnetization parameter of the wind may be written as @xmath86 the current sheet width is conveniently measured by a fraction @xmath87 of a wavelength @xmath88 occupied by the two current sheets ; eq.(31 ) in lk may be written as @xmath89 in the crab , the termination shock is observed at the distance @xmath2 cm ( weisskopf et al .  2000 ) therefore just upstream the shock @xmath90 , @xmath91 ; @xmath92 , where @xmath93 .    at the termination shock ,",
    "the flow sharply decelerates so the plasma is compressed .",
    "the proper density grows @xmath94 times . according to eqs.(10 ) and",
    "( 13 ) , the less @xmath95 ( i.e.  the larger fraction of the magnetic flux dissipates at the shock ) the less the downstream velocity so one can place a lower limit on the compression factor assuming @xmath47 . in this case @xmath96 ; substituting the estimated above parameters of the crab wind , one gets @xmath97 .",
    "such a huge compression factor implies significant heating of the plasma , especially within the current sheets .",
    "let us show that after such a compression the particle larmor radius should exceed the wavelength so that the alternating magnetic field dissipates completely within the shock .    the downstream temperature , which determines the larmor radius , depends on the fraction of the alternating magnetic field annihilated at the shock .",
    "let us first assume that this fraction remains small so that the structure sketched in fig .",
    "1 preserves downstream the shock .",
    "the width of the current sheet in the wind frame can not be less than the particle larmor radius , @xmath98 where @xmath99 is the plasma temperature within the sheet and @xmath100 the magnetic field in the wind frame of reference .",
    "the wavelength in the wind frame is @xmath101 therefore the minimum fraction of the wavelength occupied by the two current sheets is @xmath102 the temperature obeys the condition of the hydrostatic equilibrium of the plasma in the sheet , @xmath103 , where @xmath104 is the number density of the plasma in the sheet .",
    "the magnetic field is frozen into the plasma outside the sheet therefore @xmath105 , where @xmath106 is the plasma number density outside the sheet",
    ". now one can write ( see eq.(17 ) in lk ) @xmath107 the left - hand side of this relation is the fraction of particles carried in the sheet ; of course this fraction should be less than unity . in the unshocked wind @xmath108 ( lk ) ; with the above estimate for the upstream @xmath87 , one obtains that upstream the shock this fraction is about 0.1 .",
    "it was demonstrated above that @xmath32 decreases about 1000 times when the flow passes the shock , therefore downstream the shock @xmath109 , which is impossible .",
    "this means that contrary to the initial assumption , the fraction of the magnetic field dissipated within the shock is not small and @xmath95 defined by eq.(4 ) is not close to unity .    in this case",
    "@xmath65 ( eq.(13 ) ) is also not close to unity and then , according to eqs.(10 ) and ( 12 ) , the downstream flow is non- or mildly relativistic , @xmath110 , whereas the downstream temperature is about the particle kinetic energy upstream the shock , @xmath111 . with the above estimates for the upstream lorentz factor and magnetization parameter",
    ", one can easily see that the larmor radius downstream the shock , @xmath112 cm , vastly exceeds the wavelength , @xmath113 cm , therefore the alternating magnetic field should completely annihilate at the shock .",
    "this means that the parameter @xmath65 should be determined as the ratio of the poynting flux associated with the average magnetic field , @xmath114 , to the total energy flux",
    ". therefore the downstream parameters are independent of whether the alternating magnetic field dissipated upstream the shock or just at the shock .",
    "the available upper limits on the magnetization parameter in the pulsar wind ( kennel & coroniti 1984 ; emmering & chevalier 1987 ; begelman & li 1992 ) was found from the standard mhd shock conditions applied to the downstream parameters estimated from the analysis of the plasma dynamics in the nebula downstream the shock . in the case of the striped wind these upper limits should be attributed not to the total poynting flux but to the poynting flux associated with the average magnetic field ( see also rees & gunn 1974 ; kundt & krotscheck 1980 ) .",
    "the upstream flow may be poynting dominated provided most of the electromagnetic energy is carried by the alternating magnetic field , which annihilates at the termination shock .",
    "the particle acceleration by driven reconnection may be qualitatively described as follows .",
    "let us consider a box with two stripes of the oppositely directed magnetic field and a current sheet between them ( fig .",
    "when the box is compressed , the electric field @xmath115 arises , which has the same sign in the domains of opposite magnetic polarity .",
    "close enough to the zero line of the magnetic field , particles may move freely along this line and gain energy from the electric field .",
    "of course the real picture should be much more complicated than the presented one - dimensional sketch .",
    "the magnetic reconnection might proceed in separate x - points but in average the process remains one - dimensional because the released energy is confined to a layer around the field reversal .",
    "acceleration of relativistic electrons close to an x - point was considered by romanova & lovelace ( 1992 ) ; zenitani & hoshino ( 2001 ) , larrabee et al.(2002 ) who found a power - law particle distribution with the slope @xmath26 .",
    "reconnection in a long current sheet at a time - scale large enough that particles pass many x - points has not been considered yet .",
    "let us assume that a power - law distribution is formed in this case also and estimate the maximal energy particles attain when the magnetic field annihilates completely .",
    "let the particle energy distribution within the current sheet be @xmath116 at @xmath117 with @xmath118 .",
    "at such a distribution function , the particle density is dominated by low energy electrons , @xmath119 whereas the energy density is dominated by high - energy electrons , @xmath120 let us assume that the power law index @xmath121 remains fixed in the course of compression and only @xmath122 and @xmath123 vary .",
    "one can find these variations considering particles and energy balance within the box .",
    "the particle balance is written as @xmath124 where @xmath125 is the sheet width , @xmath126 the box width , @xmath104 and @xmath106 the particle number densities in the sheet and outside it , correspondingly , and the index 0 is referred to the initial state .",
    "the energy balance implies that the variation of the total energy within the box is equal to the work done on the box by the outer pressure ( @xmath127 ) : @xmath128=-\\frac{b^2}{8\\pi}dl,\\ ] ] where @xmath129 is the plasma energy density in the sheet .",
    "taking into account that the magnetic field is frozen into the cold plasma , @xmath130 and that the plasma pressure in the sheet , @xmath131 , is counterbalanced by the magnetic pressure , @xmath132 one can write the energy balance equation in the form @xmath133    let us assume that the sheet width is equal to the maximal larmor radius @xmath134 the maximal lorentz factor , @xmath123 , is found from eqs .",
    "( 21 ) , ( 22 ) , ( 24 ) and ( 25 ) as @xmath135 now one can write @xmath136 in order to find the plasma parameters in the course of compression one should solve eqs.(23 ) , ( 26 ) and ( 28 ) for @xmath137 , @xmath138 , @xmath139 from @xmath140 to smaller @xmath126 .",
    "the magnetic field dissipates completely when the sheet width becomes comparable with the box width , @xmath141 . at the last stage ,",
    "one is unable to separate unambiguously the total plasma volume onto a hot current sheet and a cold magnetized plasma therefore the presented equations may be only used to estimate roughly the final plasma parameters . taking this into account",
    ", one can simplify the problem even more and solve these equations in the limit @xmath142 , when they are formally applicable , and take the limit @xmath143 in the obtained solutions .",
    "let us introduce the dimensionless variable @xmath144 . in the zeroth order in small @xmath87 , both eq.(23 ) and eq.(26 ) reduce to the same equation",
    "@xmath145 so the system is nearly degenerate . in order to find the second equation",
    ", one should expand eqs.(23 ) and ( 26 ) to the first order in @xmath87 and eliminate the zeroth order term . introducing one more dimensionless variable @xmath146 , one gets @xmath147 transforming eq.(28 ) to the dimensionless variables @xmath87 and @xmath148 and substituting @xmath106 from eq.(29 ) , one obtains @xmath149 now one can eliminate @xmath126 from eqs.(30 ) and ( 31 ) to get finally @xmath150 the solution to this equation is @xmath151 at @xmath152 ( but still @xmath153 ) @xmath148 goes to a constant , @xmath154 , independently of the initial conditions . taking into account that in the pulsar wind @xmath155 ( lk ) , one can take for estimates @xmath156 .",
    "now one can estimate the compression factor , @xmath157 , necessary for the magnetic field to dissipate completely .",
    "substituting @xmath158 into eq.(31 ) , one gets @xmath159 substituting @xmath160 into eq.(27 ) yields an estimate for the maximal lorentz factor attained when the magnetic field dissipates completely @xmath161 where @xmath162 is the initial magnetization parameter .",
    "it follows from eqs.(16 ) , ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) that in the wind upstream the shock @xmath163 therefore the particles may be accelerated up to large energies , @xmath164 , even at a moderately large @xmath0 .",
    "at the termination shock , the flow is compressed and the energy of the alternating magnetic field is released . close to the equator of the flow , the average magnetic field is small and nearly all the poynting flux is transferred to the particles .",
    "it was shown in sect .  2 that the downstream velocity is non - relativistic in this case , therefore the proper density of the plasma increases @xmath165 times where @xmath22 is the wind lorentz factor upstream the shock . for typical parameters ( see sect .",
    "3 ) this compression factor significantly exceeds that given by eq .  ( 33 ) ; this confirms the conclusion that the alternating magnetic field annihilates completely at the termination shock .",
    "the flow is decelerated in the shock by the pressure of the hot downstream plasma and magnetic field . in the collisionless shock",
    "the deceleration scale is about the larmor radius of those particles , which make a major contribution to the downstream pressure .",
    "these particles penetrate upstream by their larmour radius and exert , via the magnetic field , the decelerating force on the upstream flow . in the standard mhd shock ,",
    "the downstream temperature is about the particle kinetic energy in the upstream flow therefore the upstream particles penetrate about all the shock width immediately after they enter the shock .",
    "so there is only one characteristic spatial scale in this case , namely that of the larmor radius corresponding to the upstream kinetic energy .",
    "in the shock in the striped wind , the particles gain energy from the annihilating magnetic field so that the downstream pressure is determined by particles with the energy significantly exceeding the upstream kinetic energy .",
    "the larmor radius of these particles significantly exceeds not only the larmor radius corresponding to the kinetic energy in the upstream flow but even the strip width .",
    "therefore the width of such a shock , or the deceleration scale , exceeds all `` internal '' scales in the upstream flow and hence the the field annihilation proceeds locally in the proper frame like in the plasma smoothly compressed by an external force .",
    "only when the alternating field dissipates completely , the particle larmor radius , calculated with account of both thermal and kinetic energy , becomes comparable with the shock width and the flow decelerates further on like in the standard shock .",
    "so one can roughly separate the shock into two zones . in the first zone ,",
    "the flow is decelerated and compressed by the pressure of high energy particles entering from the second zone .",
    "the magnetic field dissipates in the first zone roughly according to the simple picture outlined in sect .",
    "the plasma heated by the field annihilation in the first zone enters the second one therefore the second zone resembles the standard shock with a hot upstream plasma .",
    "the compression factor , @xmath166 , necessary for the magnetic field to dissipate completely was estimated in the previous section .",
    "the continuity equation in the relativistic flow , @xmath167 , implies that the flow lorentz factor at the end of the field dissipation stage is @xmath168 .",
    "adopting the outlined in the previous section picture of the particle acceleration by driven reconnection , one concludes that a power - law particle distribution is formed at this stage . in the proper plasma frame",
    "moving with the lorentz factor @xmath169 , this distribution extends from @xmath170 up to @xmath171 .",
    "now the alternating field is already dissipated and the flow decelerates further on , from @xmath172 down to @xmath173 , like in the standard mhd shock . applying the particle and energy flux conservation , @xmath174 and @xmath175 , one finds the maximal energy in the particle distribution downstream the shock , @xmath176 .",
    "the upper limit on the minimal energy may be estimated from the condition that the energy of the most of particles is simply randomized but does not changes considerably ; then @xmath177 .",
    "making use of eqs.(33 ) and ( 34 ) , one gets @xmath178 @xmath179 substituting @xmath180 and parameters of the crab pulsar wind upstream the termination shock ( see sect.3 ) , one gets @xmath181 ; @xmath182 , which is roughly compatible with the parameters inferred from the observed spectrum .",
    "these simple estimates show that particle acceleration at the shock in a striped wind may form such a particle distribution that the energy of most of the particles is significantly less than the upstream particle kinetic energy whereas the plasma energy density is dominated by a relatively small amount of high energy particles .",
    "these high energy particles may be accelerated further on by the 1-st order fermi mechanism thus forming a high energy tail at @xmath183 .",
    "recent investigations ( bednarz & ostrowski ( 1998 ) ; gallant & achterberg ( 1999 ) ; kirk et al .",
    "( 2000 ) ; achterberg et al .",
    "( 2001 ) ) have shown that in ultra - relativistic shocks , the tail is formed with the power - law index @xmath184 compatible with the observed x - ray spectra of the crab and other plerions .",
    "so the observed broken power - law spectrum with a flat low frequency part may be attributed to the particle acceleration at the termination shock in a striped pulsar wind .",
    "the observed spectra of plerions from the radio to the gamma - ray band imply a very wide electron energy distribution , from less than few hundreds mev to @xmath185 ev .",
    "most of electrons are accumulated at the low - energy end of this distribution .",
    "although the synchrotron life time of these electrons exceeds the plerion age , there is strong evidence to suggest that they are accelerated now together with high energy electrons responsible for the hard radiation from the nebula ( bietenholz & kronberg 1992 ; gallant & tuffs 1999 , 2002 ; bietenholtz et al .",
    "the observed flat radio spectrum implies that the acceleration mechanism transfers most of the available energy to a small fraction of particles and retains most of particles at relatively low energy .",
    "it is proposed in this article that the flat energy distribution is formed in the course of the particle acceleration by driven reconnection of the alternating magnetic field at the pulsar wind termination shock .",
    "it is widely believed that just upstream the termination shock the magnetic energy is negligible as compared with the plasma kinetic energy because plasma dynamics in the nebula implies small magnetization downstream the shock ( rees & gunn 1974 ; kennel & coroniti 1984 ; emmering & chevalier 1987 ; begelman & li 1992 ) .",
    "however the plasma magnetization and dynamics depend only on the average upstream magnetic field so the upstream flow may be poynting dominated provided most of the magnetic energy is associated with the alternating magnetic field . in this case",
    "the average particle energy grows significantly at the shock where the magnetic field annihilates .",
    "therefore the particle distribution with the power - law index @xmath186 is formed readily .",
    "the proposed mechanism may also explain why no low - frequency cutoff is observed in the crab radio spectrum .",
    "at the kinetic energy dominated shocks , the power - law tail is formed only at the energies exceeding the downstream temperature , which is about the particle kinetic energy upstream the shock .",
    "therefore if the crab pulsar wind were kinetic energy dominated , only rather low lorentz factor of the wind would be compatible with the radio data , which would imply extremely highly mass loaded wind . in the striped wind , most of the energy",
    "is contained in the magnetic field therefore the wind lorentz factor is lower than in the kinetic energy dominated wind .",
    "moreover the presented here simple model of the shock in a striped wind predicts that in this case the downstream temperature may be considerably less than the upstream particle kinetic energy .",
    "therefore the lack of the low - frequency turnover in the observed plerion spectra may be naturally explained within the scope of the proposed model .",
    "of course the outlined here qualitative picture of the particle acceleration in plerions may be considered only as preliminary ; it may be justified only by numerical simulations of the shock in a striped wind .",
    "i am grateful to david eichler for stimulating discussions .",
    "achterberg a. , gallant y.a . ,",
    "kirk j.g . ,",
    "guthmann a.w . , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 393 appl s. , camenzind m. , 1988 , a & a , 206 , 258 arons j. , 1983 , in positron - electron pairs in astrophysics , eds .",
    "m.l.burns , a.k.harding , r.ramaty ( ny , aip ) , p.  163 atoyan a.m. , 1999 , a & a , 346 , l49 bednarz j. , ostrowski m. , 1998 , phys.rev.lett . , 80 , 3911 begelman m.c . , li z .- y . , 1992 , apj , 397 , 187 bietenholtz m.f .",
    ", frail d.a .",
    ", hester j.j . , 2001 , apj , 560 , 254 bietenholtz m.f .",
    ", kronberg p.p . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 393 , 206 birk g.t .",
    ", crusius - wtzel a.r . , lesch h. , 2001 , apj , 559 , 96 bogovalov s.v . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 349 , 101 cheng a.f . ,",
    "ruderman m.a . , 1980 ,",
    "apj , 235 , 576 coroniti f.v . , 1990 , apj , 349 , 538 emmering r.t . ,",
    "chevalier r.a . , 1987 , apj , 321 , 334 gaensler b.m . , arons j. , kaspi v.m . , pivovaroff m.j . , kawai n. , tamura k. , 2002 , apj , 569 , 878 gaensler b. m. , pivovaroff m. j. , garmire g. p. , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 556 , l107 gallant y.a .",
    ", achterberg a. , 1999 , mnras , 305 , l6 gallant y.a . , arons j. , 1994 , apj , 435 , 230 gallant y. a. , tuffs r. j. , 1999 , pulsar astronomy - 2000 and beyond , asp conference series , vol . 202 ; proc .",
    "iau coll .",
    "177 ( san francisco : asp ) .",
    "eds . : m.  kramer , n.  wex , and n.  wielebinski , p. 503",
    "gallant y. a. , tuffs r. j. , 2002 , in neutron stars in supernova remnants , asp conference series , vol .",
    "271 , eds .",
    "slane and b.m.gaensler .",
    "asp conf .",
    "series vol.271 , p.161 gallant y.a . , van der swaluw e. , kirk j.g .",
    ", achterberg a. , 2002 , in neutron stars in supernova remnants , eds . : p.o.slane and b.m .",
    "asp conf .",
    "series vol .",
    "271 , , p.  99",
    "helfand d. j. , gotthelf e. v. , halpern j. p. , 2001",
    ", apj , 556 , 380 hoshino m. , arons j , gallant y.a .",
    ", langdon a.b . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 390 , 454 kennel c. f. , coroniti f. v. , 1984 , apj , 283 , 694 kirk j.g . ,",
    "guthman a.w .",
    ", gallant y.a . ,",
    "achterberg a. , 2000 , apj , 542 , 235 kirk j.g . , skjraasen o. , 2003 , apj , in press kundt w. , krotscheck e. , 1980 , a&a , 83 , 1 larrabee d.a . , lovelace r.v.e . ,",
    "romanova m.m . , 2002 , astroph/0210045 lu f.j . , wang q.d . , aschenbach b. , durouchoux p. , song l.m . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 568 , l49 lyubarsky y.e . ,",
    "kirk j.g . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 547 , 437 ( lk ) lyutikov m. , 2002 , astro - ph/0210353 michel f.c . , 1971 , comments astrophys.space phys . , 3 , 80 michel f.c . , 1982 , rev.mod.phys . , 54 , 1 michel f.c . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 431 , 397 pavlov g.g . ,",
    "kargaltsev o.y . , sanwal d. , garmire g.p . , 2001 , apj , 554 , l189 rees m. j. , gunn , j. e. , 1974 , mnras , 167 , 1 romanova m. m. , lovelace r. v. e. , 1992 , a&a , 262 , 26 shklovsky i. s. , 1970 , apj , 159 , l77 usov v.v .",
    ", 1975 , apss , 32 , 375 weisskopf c.  et al . ,",
    "2000 , apj , 536 , l81 zenitani s. , hoshino m. , 2001 , apj , 562 , l63"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the origin of radio emission from plerions is considered . </S>",
    "<S> recent observations suggest that radio emitting electrons are presently accelerated rather than having been injected at early stages of the plerion evolution . </S>",
    "<S> the observed flat spectra without a low frequency cutoff imply an acceleration mechanism that raises the average particle energy by orders of magnitude but leaves most of the particles at the energy less than about few hundred mev . </S>",
    "<S> it is suggested that annihilation of the alternating magnetic field at the pulsar wind termination shock provides the necessary mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> toroidal stripes of opposite magnetic polarity are formed in the wind emanated from an obliquely rotating pulsar magnetosphere ( the striped wind ) . at the termination shock , the flow compresses and the magnetic field annihilates by driven reconnection . </S>",
    "<S> jump conditions are obtained for the shock in a striped wind . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that postshock mhd parameters of the flow are the same as if the energy of alternating field has already been converted into the plasma energy upstream the shock . </S>",
    "<S> therefore the available estimates of the ratio of the poynting flux to the matter energy flux , @xmath0 , should be attributed not to the total upstream poynting flux but only to that associated with the average magnetic field . </S>",
    "<S> a simple model for the particle acceleration in the shocked striped wind is presented .    </S>",
    "<S> acceleration of particles  magnetic fields  mhd  shock waves  pulsars : general  supernova remnants </S>"
  ]
}