{
  "article_text": [
    "the evolution of chemical abundances in the universe is nowadays a subject of utmost importance .",
    "relevant issues are when and where the first metals were synthetized , and how they spread to enrich the individual host galaxies , as well as the intergalactic ( igm ) and intracluster ( icm ) medium ; see ferrara et  al .",
    "( 2000 ) and chiosi ( 2000 ) for recent papers on the subject .    to assess these issues , related to metal production and mixing into the interstellar medium ( ism )",
    ", it is necessary to couple chemical evolution with hydrodynamical evolution .",
    "this has been done several times in the past , with different techniques .",
    "although in this paper we specifically deal with chemical evolution in smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) , we like to recall also some works based on eulerian codes for the hydrodynamics .",
    "the production and distribution of metals over cosmic scales has been recently addressed by cen & ostriker ( 1999 ) and by yepes ( 1998 ) , who implemented elementary prescriptions for metal enrichment in their cosmological simulations .",
    "chemo  dynamical models for individual galaxies , considering a multi ",
    "phase ism have been developed by burkert & hensler ( 1988 ) , burkert ( 1992 ) , theis ( 1992 ) , samland ( 1997 ) .",
    "more recently , recchi ( 2001 ) implemented the detailed production and mixing of many different chemical elements in their hydro ",
    "code for dwarf starburst galaxies .",
    "the first attempt to couple sph with chemical evolution is by steinmetz & mller ( 1994 ) , who study the formation of a milky way  like galaxy in a cosmological context .",
    "their chemical evolution scheme is rather simple : they consider the ejection of gas and global metallicity @xmath0 from type  ii supernov  ( sn ii ) , occurring over 30 myr after the star formation ( sf ) episode .",
    "these gas and metals produced by a star particle are then distributed around over the neighbouring gas particles .",
    "more detailed schemes have been worked out by raiteri ( 1996 ) and berczik ( 1999 ) .",
    "raiteri model the evolution of oxygen and iron , making use of fitting formul  to follow gas and metal ejection from a star particle over time .",
    "moreover , they include the delayed iron production by type  ia sn ( sn  ia ) , by implementing the theoretical rate by greggio & renzini ( 1983 , hereinafter gr83 ) .",
    "the gas and metals produced by a star particle are distributed around over the neighbouring gas particles , as in steinmetz & mller ( 1994 ) .",
    "berczik follows the method developed by raiteri et  al .",
    ", adding planetary nebul , hydrogen and helium to the picture . from the chemical point of view , the main improvement of these models is that they avoid the instantaneous recycling approximation ( ira , e.g.  tinsley 1980 ) by taking into account the different stellar sources and production timescales of the various elements .",
    "carraro ( 1998 ) and buonomo ( 2000 ) consider the evolution of the overall metallicity in the ira , with a scheme similar to steinmetz & mller ( 1994 ) .",
    "however , in the feedback computation they also include the effect of sn  ia according to the rate by gr83 , and they introduce a metal diffusion mechanism instead of the standard sph smoothing of metallicity among gas particles .",
    "recently , mosconi ( 2001 ) presented a new implementation of chemical evolution in sph , following the evolution of very many elements .",
    "they consider metal production from sn  ii , essentially instantaneous , and the contribution of sn  ia .",
    "the latter , rather than following the theoretical rate and time distribution by gr83 , is treated simply as a prompt metal release occurring after a given time ",
    "delay @xmath1 after the sf episode .",
    "the typical time ",
    "delay @xmath1 , as well as the number of sn  ia with respect to sn  ii , are introduced as free parameters in their simulations .",
    "all the above mentioned models display one or both of the following numerical drawbacks :    \\(i ) new collisionless star particles are created when sf occurs , while the corresponding metal ejecta are redistributed around to other gas particles .",
    "hence , the number of sf episodes and of `` offspring stars '' per gas particle must be artificially damped , otherwise the overall number of particles gets too large .",
    "also , the simulation must start with relatively few baryonic particles , as sf will increase their number substantially in the course of the simulation ; this hampers the modelling of the early , very interesting phases of galaxy formation .",
    "\\(ii ) when sf occurs , hybrid particles are created which host both gas and different stellar populations . as hybrid particles consist of both collisional and collisionless sub ",
    "components , from the point of view of the hydrodynamics they introduce artifacts : before becoming purely collisionless particles , the stars tend to follow for a while the dynamical evolution of the gas , clearly a spurious effect",
    ".    in this paper , we present a new statistical algorithm of sf and chemical evolution in the context of n - body sph simulations , aimed at overcoming the above mentioned problems . in our approach , in fact , the number of baryonic particles remains constant throughout the simulation , and particles are either fully hydrodynamical or fully collisionless .",
    "due to its low computational costs , the new formalism is particularly suited to many  particle simulations , and the completely local character of the computation of `` chemical quantities '' makes it convenient for parallel codes ( lia 2000 , lia & carraro 2000 , dalla vecchia 2001 , lia 2001 ) .",
    "the scheme follows the detailed production of many chemical elements over different timescales , avoiding the ira . in this respect ,",
    "we provide updated fitting formul  for the evolution of gas and metal release , that can be easily implemented also in other particle - based codes .",
    "the approach allows to calculate the abundance evolution of a number of chemical elements independently , as well as of the global metallicity . depending on the objects being modelled",
    ", one might in fact be interested in monitoring different chemical elements in different cases .",
    "we remark that relaxing the ira is fundamental not only for the sake of chemical evolution ( to trace abundance ratios of different elements , for instance [ @xmath2/fe ] ratios ) , but also for the effects that delayed gas restitution may have on the dynamics , as recently discussed by jungwiert ( 2001 ) . among others ,",
    "continuous mass loss from stars over a hubble time contributes to solve robert s time paradox in spiral galaxies ( kennicutt et  al .",
    "1994 ) .",
    "the layout of the paper is as follows . in section  2",
    "we briefly introduce our treesph code , while in section  3 we describe the star formation algorithm and related feed - back prescriptions .",
    "section  4 provides a detailed explanation of our statistical chemical model , whereas sections  5 to 8 present tests and astrophysical applications .",
    "finally , section  9 summarizes our findings .",
    "the simulations presented here have been performed using the tree  sph code developed in carraro ( 1998 ) , lia ( 2000 ) , lia & carraro ( 2000 ) and dalla vecchia ( 2001 ) . in this code , the properties of the gaseous component are described by means of the sph technique ( lucy 1977 ; gingold & monaghan 1977 ) , whereas the gravitational forces are computed by means of the hierarchical tree algorithm of barnes & hut ( 1986 ) , using the tolerance parameter @xmath3 , expanding the tree nodes to quadrupole order , and adopting a spline softening parameter . in the sph method ,",
    "each particle represents a fluid element whose position , velocity , energy , density etc .",
    "are followed in time and space .",
    "the properties of the fluid are locally estimated by an interpolation which involves the smoothing length @xmath4 .",
    "convergence tests for the sph part of the code were performed in carraro ( 1998 ) . finally , cooling tables as a function of the metallicity of the gas",
    "have been taken from sutherland & dopita ( 1993 ) .",
    "for further details , we refer the reader to the above mentioned papers .",
    "in this paper we improve upon the sf and chemical evolution sections of our code , as presented here below .",
    "the formation of stars is a poorly understood process , and therefore difficult to model properly .",
    "the most widely used strategy consists of two steps .",
    "firstly , an element of fluid must satisfy some conditions to be eligible to sf .",
    "the basic criteria adopted in our sph code to select the fluid elements prone to sf are ( i ) the gas particle must be in a convergent flow , and ( ii ) the gas particle must be jeans unstable .",
    "the conditions are met if the velocity divergence is negative and if the sound crossing time - scale is shorter than the dynamical time - scale .",
    "the effect of varying the sf criteria has been discussed in details in buonomo ( 2000 ) , which the reader is referred to .",
    "secondly , the fluid element turns into stars according to a suitable star formation rate ( sfr ) , which is customarily a reminiscence of the schmidt ( 1959 ) law : @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the star efficency parameter , that we set equal to 0.1 , and @xmath7 is the free - fall timescale . in our code , this sf law is seen as the probability that a single gas particle is completely transformed into a star particle in the next time step ( katz & gunn 1991 ; katz 1996 ) .",
    "this probability is computed as @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the particle time step .",
    "the particle is then effectively chosen , or not , to transform into a star particle by means of a monte carlo method .",
    "this statistical approach is the more reliable the larger is the number of particles that model the star forming region .",
    "the advantage of this approach is twofold .",
    "first of all , the total number of particles in the simulation does not increase , since a gas particle turns completely into a star particle once it fulfills all the sf criteria .",
    "besides , baryonic particles are assigned and always retain all the same mass throughout the simulation .",
    "secondly , at increasing number of particles enclosed in a star forming region , the probability approach naturally becomes more and more realistic .",
    "again , this makes it potentially advantageous for algorithms running on parallel computers , where large numbers of particles can be managed ( lia 2000 ; dalla vecchia 2001 ) .",
    "stars are expected to return energy to the ism via sn  explosions , and the bulk of the energy released in the ism is known as the stellar energy feed - back . in our code , the sn  rates are calculated by the statistical algorithm as explained later in this paper , and each sn   is assumed to contribute @xmath10  erg of energy to the surrounding medium ( thornton et al 1998 ) .    the key problem here is to know how the released energy is given to the ism , because the limited resolution of n  body simulations does not allow to describe the ism as a multi - phase medium . in buonomo ( 2000 )",
    "we have investigated different prescriptions for the energy feed - back , suggesting that a good solution is to release all the energy from sn and other sources to the thermal budget of the fluid element ( steinmetz & mller 1994 ) . as in this scheme",
    "the feed - back is localized within the gas particle , and gets rapidly dissipated by cooling , it turns out to have no significant effects on the dynamics and/or on the chemical properties of the gas through the mixing of metals ( which is treated indipendently , see   [ diffusion ] ) .",
    "once stars are present , they return to the ism part of their mass , in form of chemically processed gas , and energy , via the stellar feed  back . in this paper",
    "we extend the probabilistic approach adopted for the sf process to the energy and chemical feed  back",
    ". each baryonic particle can be either in the form of gas or in the form of stars .",
    "the probability that a particle turns from gas to stars is fixed by the sfr ( eq .  [ probsf ] ) .",
    "likewise , each star particle can be assigned a certain probability to turn back into gas ; and when this takes place , the particle carries along the corresponding metal production , sn rate , and energy feed  back .",
    "notice that in the present approach all baryonic particles , stars and gas , have the same mass and their total number is conserved .",
    "our statistical algorithm is developed and only valid under this condition .    in brief , we consider a star particle as a single stellar population ( ssp ) of assigned initial mass function ( imf ) , and calculate the fraction of its mass which turns into re - ejected gas , as a function of its age .",
    "this mass fraction is identified as the probability that a star particle of age @xmath11 becomes a gas particle again at time @xmath12 , being @xmath9 the particle time step . for a salpeter imf , for instance ,",
    "this probability is of the order of 30% over a hubble time , since this is the fraction of the initial mass of the ssp which is globally re  ejected . by means of a monte carlo method , at each timestep we transform back into gas a certain fraction of the star particles ; typically a 30% of the total stars formed will have become gas again by the end of the simulation , after a hubble time . over a large enough number of particles , star formation and the corresponding gas restitution should be well represented statistically .",
    "besides , this approach easily takes into account that gas restitution from stars is diluted in time , with no need to assume the ira .",
    "our statistical chemical algorithm is described in detail in the following sections .",
    "each star particle is treated as a ssp of total mass @xmath13 and age @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is the present age of the system and @xmath16 is the birth ",
    "time of the star particle .",
    "ideally , one could follow the detailed chemical , photometric and spectral evolution of each ssp by adopting a grid of stellar models ( e.g.  chiosi 1998 )",
    ". however , in a hydrodynamical code this would heavily increase the computational load . to circumvent this",
    ", we prefer to approximate the amount of released gas , the sn rates and the metal production by means of analytical formulas , as described here below .    within a ssp",
    ", stellar masses are distributed according to the imf @xmath17 , usually a power  law ( e.g.   for a salpeter imf ) . a star of given mass @xmath18 is characterized by a lifetime @xmath19 ; when it `` dies '' , part of it remains enclosed in a remnant of mass @xmath20 ( a white dwarf , a neutron star or a black hole ) while the rest is ejected back to the ism in the form of chemically processed gas .",
    "stellar models provide @xmath21 and @xmath20 as a function of @xmath18 .",
    "the mass fraction of the ssp which is ejected back in the form of gas by time @xmath22 is : @xmath23 where @xmath24_{m(t)}\\ ] ] @xmath25  @xmath26  is the upper stellar mass limit in the imf , @xmath27 indicates the mass of a star with lifetime @xmath21 , and @xmath28 is thus the smallest stellar mass dying and restituting gas by time @xmath15 ( see also tinsely 1980 ) . for a salpeter imf , for instance ,",
    "the global returned gas fraction @xmath29 over a hubble time is of the order of 30% .",
    "accordingly , @xmath30 of eq .",
    "( [ gasprobab ] ) is the rate of gas ejection in time . in our statistical approach",
    ", this rate is interpreted as the _ probability _ that a star particle , in time , transforms again into gas .",
    "namely , at each time step @xmath9 the star particle is assigned a probability @xmath31 to turn back into gas , and a monte carlo method decides whether it does switch to a gas particle within @xmath9 .",
    "the overall probability that a star particle ever switches to gas again , integrated over time , is @xmath32% ; accordingly , of all the star particles formed at time @xmath16 roughly one third will have returned to be gas after a hubble time . over a sufficiently large number of particles , this approach should give a fair representation not only of the overall gas restitution , but also of its rate in time ( avoiding the ira ) .",
    "actually if , say , @xmath33 particles become star particles at some time @xmath16 , to yield the correct gas restitution in time the probability  ( [ gasprobdt1 ] ) should be applied to all of those @xmath33 particles , at each timestep , throughout the simulation . however , by age @xmath11 a fraction @xmath34 of those @xmath33 particles will have already returned to be gas , while only a fraction @xmath35 will still be stars . obviously , the probability to transform back into gas at age @xmath11 can be calculated only for those @xmath36 $ ] particles that are still stars at that time , rather than on the base of the whole initial population of @xmath33 particles .",
    "hence , to recover the correct statistical gas restitution , the probability  ( [ gasprobdt1 ] ) must be corrected by a further factor @xmath37 $ ] , and becomes : @xmath38 our test in   [ singleburst ] and fig .",
    "[ gasimf_sburst ] demonstrate that in this way the correct global gas restitution is statistically recovered  which would not be the case if expression  ( [ gasprobdt1 ] ) for the probability were directly used .",
    "we should now determine @xmath30 as a function of the age @xmath11 of the ssp .",
    "as mentioned above , in terms of computational effort it is convenient to adopt some analytical fit to the numerical results of detailed chemical evolution models .",
    "we proceed as follows .     & & +  @xmath39   &  @xmath40   &  @xmath41   + & & +   +    we calculate numerically the function  ( [ gasprobab ] ) adopting the stellar lifetimes @xmath19 and remnant masses @xmath42 from the padova evolutionary tracks ( see portinari 1998 , hereinafter pcb98 , and references therein ) .",
    "regarding the imf , its shape and variations with the environment are still an open issue ( e.g.  scalo 1998 ) ; hence we consider three different imfs suggested in literature , with the intent of covering a representative range of possibilities .    1 .",
    "the standard and widely adopted salpeter ( 1955 ) imf @xmath43 2 .   the somewhat steeper imf by kroupa ( 1998 ) , best suited to the solar neighbourhood : @xmath44 @xmath45 3 .   the more top  heavy imf suggested by arimoto & yoshii ( 1987 ) for elliptical galaxies : @xmath46    @xmath47 , @xmath48 , @xmath49 and @xmath50 are normalization coefficients fixed so that the imf is normalized to unit mass when integrated between the low and high stellar mass ends ( 0.1 and 100  @xmath26  respectively ) . with the adopted stellar mass limits , ssps with the salpeter or",
    "kroupa imf restitute a 30% of their initial mass in gas , while for ssps with the more top  heavy imf by arimoto & yoshii the restitution fraction is larger ( about 50% ) .",
    "the numerical results for the function  ( [ gasprobab ] ) are well fitted by power laws ( fig .  [ returnedfig ] ) ; the fitting functions are listed in table  [ returnedtab ] . in principle",
    ", stellar lifetimes and remnant masses depend also on the metallicity of the star ( pcb98 ) , and hence @xmath30 also depends on the metallicity of the parent ssp .",
    "however , it is beyond the scope of this paper to implement chemical evolution in such fine detail ; therefore , for gas restitution ( and for the chemical yields below ) we adopt fits independent of metallicity .",
    "notice , however , that metallicity  dependent prescriptions can in principle be inserted in our approach , as a star particle always keeps track of the metallicity @xmath51 of its host ssp ( as we did for the sole case of the nitrogen yields in   [ metalprod ] ) .    with the analytical expressions given for @xmath30 in table  [ returnedtab ] ,",
    "once the imf is chosen it is straightforward to calculate , at each time step , the probability  ( [ gasprobdt ] ) that a star particle transforms back into gas .",
    "if this happens , in the following discussion we will call it a `` gas  again particle '' .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      a particle which has experienced sf is considered to host a ssp , which releases gas and metals in time as calculated above . from the chemical point of view , that is , within such a particle there are `` hidden '' stellar and gaseous sub - components evolving in time . from the point of view of hydrodynamics , however , in our simulations we do not resolve these sub - components : a baryonic particle is labelled either as gas or as star , and behaves accordingly either as collisional or collisionless matter .",
    "we must hence translate the chemical enrichment of a ssp calculated above into chemical enrichment of the gas particles .",
    "just as in the case of gas restitution and of the sn rates (  [ gasrestitution ] and  [ snrates ] ) , we resort to a statistical approach .",
    "a particle which has experienced sf may either remain a star forever , or become at some point a gas  again particle . as long as it remains a star particle ,",
    "it is assigned the metallicity @xmath51 of its ssp ; when at some timestep @xmath9 it turns into a gas  again particle , it is assigned the composition @xmath52 of the gas released by the ssp within @xmath9 , given by  ( [ ztssp ] ) .",
    "once more , the main limit of this approach may reside in poor statistics : the metal production of a whole stellar population is sampled by the , possibly small , fraction of it which dies within the timestep @xmath9 .",
    "a large enough number of particles is necessary to obtain a meaningful statistical sampling , and the `` chemical timestep '' must be chosen appropriately , generally longer that the hydro  dynamical timestep ( see  [ statcorr ] ) .",
    "our test for the single burst case and our simulations below indicate that our algorithm works already with a few thousand baryonic particles .",
    "finally , we must describe the chemical evolution of the overall population of gas particles , both gas  again particles and those which have never been stars , which proceeds by metal diffusion . particles which were never stars can acquire metals from neighbouring gas  again particles through diffusion .",
    "conversely , a gas  again particle is initially assigned the metallicity @xmath52 from eq .",
    "( [ ztssp ] ) as discussed above ; from then on , its composition will evolve only by metal exchange with other nearby gas particles , with no further memory that it had been a star in the past . for the sake of metal diffusion , that is , once the initial metallicity of a gas  again particle has been assigned there is no need to distinguish between gas and gas  again particles .    at each time step , we diffuse metallicity among gas particles according to the scheme originally developed by groom ( 1997 ) , which consists of an sph translation of the usual diffusion equation : @xmath53 where @xmath54 is the diffusion coefficient . in principle , this scheme is more physically grounded than the widely used sph - smoothing , in which metals are sph - spread among the neighbouring particles .",
    "it relies on the idea that the diffusion of metals is driven by sn  explosion and energy injection in the interstellar medium during the sn  remnant phase .",
    "we derive the diffusion coefficient from the models by thornton ( 1998 ) . the typical size of a sn remnant after @xmath55 yr from the explosion is 50 - 100 pc , whereas the typical velocity of the gas accelerated by the sn remnant at that time is 40 - 60 km / sec . in this way we obtain : @xmath56 the sph translation , which requires second derivatives of the kernel , is @xmath57 @xmath58 this sph algorithm was successfully tested by groom ( 1997 ) versus suitable analytical exact counterparts .",
    "a possible drawback of the adopted diffusion scheme could be the use of the @xmath59 derivative of the smoothing function , which may introduce spurious fluctuations in the resulting metallicity .",
    "the use of a spline kernel , which is continuous with its 1@xmath60 and 2@xmath61 order derivatives , ensures that unphysical fluctuations in the diffused quantities ( metallicity in our case ) do not appear .",
    "a first useful test for our algorithm is to model the evolution of the various chemical quantities ( gas fraction , metallicity etc . ) in the simple case of a single burst of sf .",
    "this test focuses entirely on the implemented chemical network , uncoupled in this case from hydrodynamical effects .",
    "it allows us on one hand to visualize the expected chemical production of a ssp , and on the other hand to check the validity of the statistical approach .",
    "the single burst model is realized with 5000 particles of gas , of total mass of @xmath62 , turned into stars instantaneously at the beginning of the simulation ( @xmath63 , @xmath64 ) .",
    "these star particles are let evolve afterwards according to the statistical prescriptions for gas and metal restitution given above , without any further sf episodes .",
    "it is sufficient to model the evolution of a couple of characteristic elements with different production timescales , to assess the capability of the statistical approach in describing detailed chemical evolution in time . we choose to follow the evolution of oxygen ( representative of @xmath2elements produced by massive stars over short time scales ) , of iron ( representative of elements with a delayed contribution ) , and of the global metallicity .    as everything in our algorithm ( sn rates , metal production etc . )",
    "is entirely governed by the statistical gas restitution , it is fundamental to check this quantity first of all .",
    "[ gasimf_sburst ] shows the evolution of the returned gas fraction in time for our single burst test , for the three imf cases , as compared to the exact expectations computed directly from the analytical fitting functions .",
    "the response of the algorithm is very good already with @xmath655000 particles .    in fig .",
    "[ singleburstimf ] we display the results for sn rates and for the evolution of metallicity , iron and oxygen abundances in the returned gas , again compared to the analytical predictions .",
    "the results reproduce the expected trends for a ssp , and although statistical fluctuations are apparent , for instance , in the predicted sn rates , the overall behaviour is traced quite well .",
    "metallicity is very high at the beginning , when the highly metal enriched gas from massive stars is expelled .",
    "later , this extremely metal rich gas is diluted by more metal poor gas ejected by long  lived stars , so that metallicity decreases .",
    "the oxygen abundance follows the same trend , and represents roughly a half of the global metallicity , being oxygen in fact the most abundant of all metals .",
    "the iron abundance also decreases after the initial peak due to massive stars , but contrary to oxygen it later stabilizes and even increases again thanks to the contribution of sn  ia .",
    "the oxygen  to  iron ratio correspondingly changes from super - solar values at early times , when sn ii dominate the chemical enrichment , to solar and sub - solar values at later times .",
    "the absolute number of sn is largest for the arimoto ",
    "yoshii imf , which is the most top  heavy , and decreases moving to the salpeter and to the kroupa case ; the same trend is seen in the respective metallicities and oxygen abundances , dominated by the production of massive stars .",
    "the _ relative _ number of sn ia to sn ii , however , decreases when going from arimoto  yoshii to salpeter to kroupa because these latter imfs are more skewed toward smaller stellar masses .",
    "hence , the final [ o / fe ] ratio typical of the arimoto ",
    "yoshii ssp is larger than for the other imf cases .    within the range of massive stars ( @xmath66  yr )",
    ", one can notice that the typical iron abundance in the ejected gas increases going from the arimoto - yoshii to the salpeter to the kroupa imf .",
    "this is due to the fact that sn from progenitors in the low mass end of massive stars ( say , 8 - 15  @xmath26 ) are expected to produce a higher amount of iron , relative to the global mass ejection or to the oxygen production , than stars in the higher mass range .",
    "hence , the arimoto - yoshii imf favours the highest masses with very oxygen  rich , and less iron  rich , ejecta ; on the contrary , the kroupa imf is more skewed toward sn with a higher relative iron production . as a consequence , the typical [ o / fe ] ratio of sn  ii ejecta from an arimoto - yoshii ssp is higher than from a salpeter ssp than for a kroupa ssp .",
    "typical values are [ o / fe]=+0.56 for arimoto - yoshii , + 0.50 for salpeter , + 0.45 for kroupa . the theoretical estimates of iron production as a function of mass , on the other hand , are very uncertain and this detailed mass effect might be somewhat spurious .",
    "however , all of these values are compatible with empirical evidence for the @xmath2-enhanced stellar population of the galactic halo ( see e.g.the data by carretta 2000 in fig .  [ discosufe ] ) .",
    "the kroupa imf has been adopted for the simulations presented in the following .",
    "as a first astrophysical test  application of our code we run a simulation for an individual galaxy .    the initial configuration for this object is a a spherical dm halo with a density profile @xmath67 ( see lia 2000 for a justification of this choice ) .",
    "the total mass of the system is @xmath68  @xmath26  with a baryonic fraction equal to @xmath69 .",
    "the galaxy is modeled using 30,000 baryonic particles and 15,000 dm particles .",
    "accordingly , the mass of a dm particle is @xmath70 , while the mass of a gas particle is @xmath71 we assign to the halo a rigid rotation with an angular speed @xmath72 .    due to both cooling and angular momentum ,",
    "gas cools down in a thin rotating disk forming stars .",
    "the distribution of star and gas particles are shown in fig .",
    "[ discstars+gas ] .",
    "the snapshots refer to 7  gyr from the beginning of the simulations ; while star particles are settled into a stellar disc  like object , most of the gas is in the form of a hot spheroidal halo .    in fig .",
    "[ discsfh ] we plot the sf history ( sfh ) of the overall object ( solid line ) .",
    "the sfr exhibits a strong peak in the initial 0.5  gyrs , then sharply declines and by the age of 4  gyrs settles to a rather low constant value of a few @xmath26/yr .",
    "correspondingly , in the final gyrs of the simulation most of the gas is distributed in a rather hot halo ( fig .",
    "[ discstars+gas ] ) around the stellar disc , while little cold gas is left to fuel more active sf within the disc .",
    "to test the behaviour of the `` chemical algorithm '' in the simulation , we compare it with the results of a detailed one  zone chemical evolution model with the same sfh : global properties like the overall gas consumption , sn rates etc",
    ".  should correspond .",
    "usually , models for chemical evolution calculate their own sfh internally after some prescribed analytical schmidt  like law ( e.g.  portinari & chiosi 1999 ) . for the present purpose",
    ", we developed instead a version of the chemical model by pcb98 suitable to be force ",
    "fed the sfh as an input information .",
    "the chemical model has then been run for a closed system , just as our hydro ",
    "dynamical galaxy is when considered globally .",
    "[ discgasfrac ] shows the evolution of the global gas fraction in our object , as sf proceeds .",
    "the dotted line is the corresponding prediction from the chemical model , once the sfh in fig .",
    "[ discsfh ] is imposed .",
    "the agreement is quite good .",
    "[ discsn ] shows the time evolution of the sn rates for type  ii and type  ia sn , respectively .",
    "notice how the rate of sn  ii closely traces the sfr , as expected , while the rate of sn  ia is much more diluted in time . in this object with a low final sfr , the two types of sn end up with comparable rates .",
    "the trend for the sn rates , just as for the gas consumption in the previous figure , is in full agreement with the predictions of the chemical model ; this is a confirmation of the good behaviour of our algorithm for gas restitution and chemical evolution in more complex simulations than a single burst .    with respect to the detailed metallicity evolution of the gaseous and stellar components of the system , instead , it is little meaningful to compare the hydrodynamical simulation and the one  zone chemical model .",
    "in fact , a basic assumption of one  zone models is that the system is always homogeneous in space , namely the metals produced and ejected by stars are instantaneously mixed and spread over the whole gas mass in the system .",
    "this is fundamentally different from the behaviour of dynamical models of galaxies , where star formation and metal pollution are localized . in a realistic disc  like",
    "galaxy stars pollute , and form from , the gas in the disc region , while there will be a fraction of gas away from the disc which may take little or no part to sf and metal pollution .",
    "qualitatively , in a dynamical simulation of a disc galaxy we expect stars to enrich a more limited amount of gas ( that located in their surroundings ) , which gets enriched more effectively than in the one  zone model ; this highly enriched gas is somehow `` compensated '' by the the pristine , or almost pristine , gas residing far away from the disc . consequently , the stars in the disc form in an environment which is more metal enriched than what a simple one  zone model predicts , and their metallicity distribution is expected to be different than that derived from the chemical model . however ,",
    "if the distribution of metals between gas and stars is expected to be different in the dynamical simulation and in the chemical model , the global metallicity of the _ sum _ of the gaseous+stellar components should be comparable between the two models , as this traces the global metal production for that particular sfh .",
    "[ disczeta_tcomp ] illustrates these expected effects : the histories of metal enrichment for gas and stars separately are evidently very different between the one  zone model and the simulation .",
    "in particular , in the hydro ",
    "dynamical simulation more metals result locked into the stellar component , since the stars form in localized , very metal enriched regions ; correspondingly , the gas metallicity in the overall is lower than that of stars because the gas component includes also plenty of un - processed hot gas in the outskirts of the galaxy . however , when one considers the global metal enrichment ( dashed lines , average of gas+stars ) , which is the record of the overall metal production , the two models compare very well ; minor differences can be imputed to the fact that the chemical model by pcb98 includes detailed metallicity  dependent yields , while our fitting formul  in table  [ pztab ] are based on average values of the yields . the comparison in fig .",
    "[ disczeta_tcomp ] implies that the chemical algorithm in the sph simulation gives an adequate description of the metal production .",
    "[ discosufe ] shows the evolution of the global , average [ o / fe ] ratio for the stellar component , versus metallicity . at low metallicities stars display an @xmath2enhanced composition typical of sn ii",
    "enrichment , while at higher metallicities the [ o / fe ] ratio decreases , as expected from the additional contribution of sn  ia to the iron production . notice how the predicted evolution compares to the observational data for stars in the solar neighbourhood .",
    "we remark , however , that this comparison must be regarded only as qualitative , since the present simulation is not aimed at reproducing the milky way or the solar neighbourhood , but only to test the self - consistency of the chemical algorithm we implemented .",
    "actually , our object in the end resembles more the gas - consumed disc of a young s0 than that of an sb spiral like our own galaxy .",
    "[ discstarchim ] shows the chemical composition of stars in three representative age bins : `` old '' stars born within the first gyr of the simulation , `` intermediate age '' stars , born between 1 and 5  gyrs of the simulation , and `` young '' stars , i.e.  younger than 2  gyr by the end of the simulation .",
    "as expected , the bulk of old stars concentrate around high [ o / fe ] ratios because little iron has yet been contributed by sn  ia , while at decreasing age the bulk of stars moves to higher metallicities and lower [ o / fe ] ratios .",
    "the stars of the youngest bin end up with super - solar metallicity and slightly under - solar [ @xmath2/fe ] composition .    finally , in fig .",
    "[ discgradzeta ] we show the metallicity profiles , for gas and stars , in the innermost regions at the final age of 7  gyr . in these regions ,",
    "where the bulk of the galaxy resides , the gas is much more metal rich than the stars , as expected in general since the gas is an instantaneous picture of the chemical enrichment reached at present , while stars are a signature of the accumulated chemical history starting from the initial , metal  poor early epochs . besides , in the galaxy under examination very little gas is left in the late stages within the stellar disc , hence its chemical enrichment proceeds very fast .",
    "metallicity gradients are visible , and they are more pronounced for the gas component than for the stars , as expected in general from chemical evolution models ( e.g.  edmunds & greenhow 1995 ) .",
    "a basic issue of hydrodynamical simulations of galaxy formation is to what extent the results are affected by resolution . in principle , this problem might be even more crucial when a statistical algorithm is used for sf and chemical evolution .",
    "the resolution effect on the sfh of individual galaxies has been explored in lia ( 2000 ) by means of _ ad hoc _ simulations of the same individual galaxy at increasing number of particles ( 2,000 , 20,000 and 200,000 ) .",
    "they showed that the sf recipe converged above 20,000 particles ; beyond that , the sfh did not change significantly by varying the particle number further .",
    "we repeat an analogous test here for our disc  like galaxy , since our sf algorithm is different now : although we adopt the same formal sf law as in lia ( 2000 ) , this law is now implemented with a probabilistic approach (   [ star_formation ] ) . besides",
    ", resolution tests are needed not only for the convergence of the sfh , but also because the gas and metal restitution are treated statistically .    in the previous section",
    ", we discussed the self - consistency of our chemical algorithm for a simulation with 30,000 baryonic particles , by comparing its results with a one  zone chemical model , where possible .",
    "we will refer to this simulation as the `` high  resolution '' one .",
    "[ discsfh ] also shows the sfh of the same galaxy modelled with `` low resolution '' ( 8,000 particles , thin dotted line ) and with `` very high resolution '' ( 200,000 particles , thin dashed line ) .",
    "the low resolution case shows a much more noisy sfh , although qualitatively the trend resembles that of the high resolution case : an initial high sfr is mantained for @xmath651  gyr , after that its level declines rapidly .",
    "[ lowres_comp ] illustrates the performance of the chemical algorithm in the low resolutions case .",
    "the gas restitution ( top panel ) , and consequently the metal release ( mid panel ) , are a bit underestimated when compared to the predictions of the one  zone model .",
    "this can be imputed to the large oscillations of the sfr ; these oscillations produce even stronger noise in the gas ( and metal and sn ) release , as these imply a further `` probabilistic event '' on top of the one that induces sf .",
    "this noise is particulary evident in the sn rates ( bottom panel ) .",
    "however , the effect is not large : gas and metal restitution seems to be underestimated just by 10% or so .",
    "also the sn rates in the simulation , in spite of heavy oscillations , on average follow the exact one ",
    "zone counterpart .",
    "the very high resolution simulation was followed up to 1.75  gyr , with the sole purpose of demonstrating that the sfh converges when the number of particles is increased beyond 30,000 .",
    "as the performances of the chemical algorithm are very good in the high resolution simulation ( see previous section ) , once the convergency of the sfh is also demonstrated one can be confident about the overall consistency of the results .    in summary , concerning resolution effects we can conclude the following .    * with 8,000 particles",
    "the sfh and chemical evolution of the object are quite noisy , and the statistical algorithm somewhat underestimates the gas and metal release .",
    "however , _ for that sfh _ the mismatch with respect to the detailed chemical model is by no means dramatic ( within 10% ) so the gross features of chemical evolution are already rendered . * with 30,000 particles and beyond",
    ", the sfh converges and at that level of resolution the statistical chemical algorithm also responds pretty well .    concerning this latter point ,",
    "a similar result was found by lia ( 2000 ) : the sfh in their simulations converged beyond 20,000 particles . since in their case the sf algorithm was not statistical , we conclude that resolution effects on the sf law itself are dominant , while the probabilistic approach has a minor impact on the resolution limit .",
    "most important , we stress once more that beyond the resolution limit for the sfh , also the statistical chemical algorithm for gas and metal restitution performs very well .",
    "other interesting astrophysical applications of chemo  hydrodynamical codes lie in cosmological simulations of the formation and evolution of clusters , to address the problem of the chemical enrichment of the icm self - consistently . for the sake of example",
    ", we present here one such simulation .",
    "the initial conditions were realized by perturbing a cubic grid of particles with the displacements field made available by the _ cluster comparison project _ ( http://star-www.dur.ac.uk/csf/clusdata/ ) . the initial fluctuation spectrum was taken to have an asymptotic spectral index , @xmath73 , and shape parameter , @xmath74 ; the cosmological parameters assumed were : mean density , @xmath75 ; hubble constant , @xmath76 ; present  day linear rms mass fluctuations in spherical top hat spheres of radius @xmath77 , @xmath78 ; and baryon density ( in unit of the critical density ) , @xmath79 .",
    "the perturbation was centered on a cubic region of size @xmath80 .",
    "see frenk ( 1999 ) for more details .",
    "the system was divided in two zones , an inner sphere of radius @xmath81 which was filled with @xmath82 gas particles and @xmath82 dark particles , surrounded by a sphere of radius @xmath83 in which only dark matter was present .",
    "initially gas and dark matter were placed on top of each other and were given the same velocities , computed using the zeldovich approximation and adding the hubble flow . in the inner region",
    "the masses of a dm and gas particle are @xmath84 and @xmath85 , respectively .",
    "[ clustergasfrac ] shows the evolution of the gas fraction over the total baryonic matter .",
    "at the end of the simulation , @xmath6575% of the baryons are in gaseous form , while 25% is locked into stars , compatible with observed estimates ( the mass in gas in clusters is 25 times that in galaxies , arnaud 1992 ) .",
    "[ clusteramr ] shows the evolution of chemical abundances in the gaseous component .",
    "the final metallicity in the icm is @xmath650.25 solar , in broad agreement with observational values .",
    "notice how the metalicity evolution in the gas is negligible at low redshifts ( @xmath86 ) , consistent with observational data ( mushotzky & loewenstein 1997 , matsumoto et  al .",
    "also the average [ o / fe ] ratio is compatible with observational data , although these are highly uncertain ( ishimaru & arimoto 1997 ) .    fig .",
    "[ clustergrad ] shows the final metallicity distribution in the icm .",
    "a hint of the existence of a metallicity gradient ( a recent `` hot '' issue , de grandi & molendi 2001 , finoguenov 2000 , white 2000 ) can be seen in @xmath0 and in [ fe / h ] . in particular",
    ", a metallicity peak can be distinguished in the very central regions ( 200300  kpc ) , while further out metallicity seems to be more uniformly distributed , though with a large scatter .",
    "concerning the radial behaviour of the [ @xmath2/fe ] ratio , in our simulation there seems to be no differential gradients for @xmath2elements and iron , as the [ o / fe ] ratio seems to be roughly uniform at all radii , with slightly subsolar values , though with a large scatter .",
    "the iron distribution is shown in fig .",
    "[ ironmap ] , while the temperature profile is plotted in fig .",
    "[ temp_clu ] .    finally , in fig .",
    "[ cosmosfr ] we show the estimated average evolution of the sfr per mpc@xmath87 for the global simulation . notice how the peak on the sfr is more intense and located at earlier phases ( @xmath88 ) with respect to what observed in the field ( e.g.  madau 1996 , steidel 1999 ) .",
    "this is in line with expectations when looking at areas of larger density than average ; in fact , in our simulation we are dealing with a slice of universe where the formation of a cluster of galaxies takes place .",
    "higher resolution simulations are needed to assess this problem in the necessary detail , resolving also e.g. the gas still bound to individual objects from that actually expelled into the icm , the role of ram pressure stripping over individual galaxies in the central parts of the cluster , and so forth .",
    "such higher resolution simulations will be addressed in future work . in the context of the present paper",
    ", we presented this simulation here mostly for ilustration purposes , with no claims of conclusiveness .",
    "in this paper we developed a new algorithm for detailed calculation of chemical evolution in sph codes , conceived so as to be implemented with minor computational costs into simulations with a very large number of particles , and in parallel codes .",
    "as computer power and capabilities continue to improve , allowing for heavier and heavier simulations , the opportunity arises to develop algorithms for the `` astrophysical calculations '' ( star formation , chemical evolution etc . ) which provide increasing accuracy the larger the number of particles involved . at the same time , as the heaviest computational effort is typically devoted to the calculation of gravity forces , these `` astrophysical '' algorithms should bear as least as possible on the performances , mantaining a low relative computational load when the number of particles increases . our statistical algorithm for star formation and chemical evolution , presented in this paper ,",
    "is specifically addressed to this purpose .",
    "after testing the self ",
    "consistency of the algorithm , with two illustrative applications we showed how our statistical algorithm , implemented in a sph code , is suitable to model the evolution and distribution of different chemical elements in various contexts .",
    "it provides a tool to follow both the chemo  hydrodynamical evolution of individual galaxies and , in the framework of cosmological simulations , the chemical enrichment of the icm / igm as well as the global sfr and cosmic chemical evolution . besides",
    ", the description of star particles as independent ssps of assigned imf , age and metallicity should make it straightforward to follow spectro - photometric evolution as well , in the simulations .",
    "our algorithm is meant to be easy to implement into any sph code .",
    "cl thanks c.s .",
    "frenk for fruitful conversations and the kind hospitality during his visit to durham university .",
    "lp acknowledges useful discussions with jesper sommer - larsen , and thanks sissa / isas in trieste and the observatory of helsinki for kind hospitality on various visits .",
    "we are also grateful to claudio dalla vecchia for his help in handling the simulations .",
    "an anonymous referee is acknowledged for detailed remarks on the first version of the manuscript . +",
    "this study was financed by the italian murst ( phd and post - doc fellowships , and grant cofin-9802192401 ) and by the danmarks grundforskningsfond ( tac fellowship ) .",
    "arimoto n. , yoshii y. , 1987 , a&a 173 , 23 arnaud m. , evrard a.e . , 1999 , mnras 305 , 631 arnaud m. , rothenflug r. , boulade o. , vigroux l. , vangioni - flam e. , 1992 , a&a 254 , 49 barnes j. , hut p. , 1986",
    ", nature 324 , 446 berczik p. , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 348 , 371 buonomo f. , carraro g. , chiosi c. , lia c. , 2000 , mnras 312 , 371 burkert a. , hensler g. , 1988 , a&a 199 , 131 burkert a. , truran j.w .",
    ", hensler g. , 1992 , apj 391 , 651 carigi l. , 2000 , rmxaa 36 , 171 carraro g. , lia c. , chiosi c. , 1998 , mnras 297 , 1021 carretta e. , gratton r.g .",
    ", sneden c. , 2000 , a&a 356 , 238 cen r. , ostryker j.p . , 1999 , apj 519 , l109 chiappini c. , matteucci f. , beers t.c . ,",
    "nomoto k. , 1999 , apj 515 , 226 chiosi c. , 2000 , a&a 364 , 423 chiosi c. , bressan a. , portinari l. , tantalo r. , 1998 , a&a , 339 , 355 de grandi s. , molendi s. , 2001 , apj 551 , 153 dalla vecchia c. , 2001 , master thesis , padova university edmunds m.g .",
    ", greenhow r.m . , 1995 ,",
    "mnras 272 , 241 ferrara a. , pettini m. , shchekinov y. 2000 , mnras , 319 , 539 finoguenov a. , david l.p .",
    ", ponman t.j . , 2000 ,",
    "apj 544 , 188 frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m .",
    ", bode p. , et  al .",
    ", 1999 , apj 525 , 554 garnett d.r .",
    ", shields g.a .",
    ", peimbert m. , et  al . , 1999 , apj 513 , 168 gingold r.a . , monaghan j.j",
    ". , 1977 , mnras 181 , 375 greggio l. , renzini a. , 1983 , a&a 118 , 217 ( gr83 ) groom w. , 1997 , phd thesis , cambridge university gustafsson b. , karlsson t. , olsson e. , edvardsson b. , ryde n. , 1999 , a&a 342 , 426 henry r.b.c . , edmunds m.g . , kppen j. , 2000 , apj 541 , 660 ishimaru y. , arimoto n. , 1997 , pasj 49 , 1 iwamoto k. , brachwitz f. , nomoto k. , et  al . , 1999 , apjs 125 , 439 jungwiert b. , combes f. , palou j. , 2001 , a&a 376 , 85 katz n. , gunn j.e . , 1991 , apj 377 , 365 katz n. , weinberg d.h .",
    ", hernquist l.e . , 1996 , apjs , 105 , 19 kennicutt r.c.,tamblyn p. , congdon c.w .",
    ", 1994 , apj 435 , 22 kroupa p. , 1998",
    ", mnras 298 , 231 larsen t.i .",
    "larsen j. , pagel b.e.j .",
    ", 2001 , mnras 323 , 555 lia c. , 2000 , phd thesis , sissa / isas , trieste lia c. , carraro g. , 2000 , mnras 314 , 145 lia c. , carraro g. , salucci p. , 2000 ,",
    "a&a 360 , 76 lia c. , dalla vecchia c. , carraro g. , 2001 , in `` science and computing at cineca - 2000 report '' , in press liang y.c . , zhao g. , shi j.r .",
    ", 2001 , a&a 374 , 936 lucy l. , 1977 , aj , 82 , 1013 madau p. , ferguson h.c . ,",
    "dickinson m.e .",
    ", et  al . , 1996 , mnras 283 , 1388 maeder a. , 1992 , a&a 264 , 105 marigo p. , 2001",
    ", a&a 370 , 194 matsumoto h. , tsuru t.g . , fukazawa y. , hattori m. , davis d.s . , 2000 ,",
    "pasj 52 , 153 mosconi m.b . ,",
    "tissera p.b . ,",
    "cora s.a . ,",
    "lambas d.g . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 325 , 34 mushotzky r.f . , loewenstein m. , 1997 , apj 481 , l63 portinari l. , chiosi c. , 1999 , a&a 350 , 827 portinari l. , chiosi c. , bressan a. , 1998 , a&a 334 , 505 ( pcb98 ) prantzos n. , vangioni ",
    "flam e. , chauveau s. , 1994 , a&a 285,132 raiteri c.m . ,",
    "villata m , navarro j.f .",
    ", 1996 , a&a 315 , 105 recchi s. , matteucci f. , dercole a. , 2001 , mnras 322 , 800 samland m. , hensler g. , theis c. , 1997 , apj 476 , 544 salpeter e.e . , 1955 , apj 121 , 161 scalo j. , 1998 , asp conf .",
    "142 , 201 schmidt m. , 1959 , apj , 129 , 243 steidel c.c .",
    ", adelberger k.l .",
    ", giavalisco m. , dickinson m. , pettini m. , 1999 , apj 519 , 1 steinmetz m. , mller e. , 1994 , a&a , 281 , l97 sutherland r.s .",
    ", dopita m.a .",
    ", 1993 , apjs 88 , 253 theis c. , burkert a. , hensler g. , 1992 , a&a 265 , 465 thomas d. , greggio l. , bender r. , 1998 , mnras 296 , 119 thornton k. , gaudlitz m. , janka h .- th . , steinmetz m. , 1998 , apj 500 , 95 timmes f.x . ,",
    "woosley s.e . ,",
    "weaver t.a .",
    ", 1995 , apjs 98 , 617 tinsley b.m . , 1980 , fund .  of cosmic phys .  5 , 287 white d. , 2000 , mnras 312 , 663 yepes g. , elizondo d. , ascasibar y. , 1998 , ap&ss 263 , 31"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in smoothed particles hydrodynamics ( sph ) codes with a large number of particles , star formation as well as gas and metal restitution from dying stars can be treated statistically . </S>",
    "<S> this approach allows to include detailed chemical evolution and gas with minor computational effort . here </S>",
    "<S> we report on a new statistical algorithm for star formation and chemical evolution , especially conceived for sph simulations with large numbers of particles , and for parallel sph codes .    </S>",
    "<S> for the sake of illustration , we present also two astrophysical simulations obtained with this algorithm , implemented into the tree  sph code by lia & carraro ( 2000 ) . + in the first one , we follow the formation of an individual disc  like galaxy , predict the final structure and metallicity evolution , and test resolution effects . </S>",
    "<S> + in the second one we simulate the formation and evolution of a cluster of galaxies , to demonstrate the capabilities of the algorithm in investigating the chemo - dynamical evolution of galaxies and of the intergalactic medium in a cosmological context .    </S>",
    "<S> hydrodynamics  -  methods : numerical  -  stars : formation  -  galaxies : evolution  -   galaxies : chemical evolution </S>"
  ]
}