{
  "article_text": [
    "the long series of radio timing data of the triple pulsar psr  b1620@xmath026 ( lyne et al .",
    "1988 ) has now confirmed that the second companion ( backer et al .",
    "1993 ) , is a @xmath1 substellar object  a planet  in a low eccentricity , wide circumbinary orbit about the inner pulsar ",
    "white dwarf binary .",
    "the outer orbit is significantly inclined to the inner orbital plane , and hst photometric data confirms that the white dwarf is young , and is a proper motion member of the cluster ( thorsett et al .  1999 ; sigurdsson et al .",
    "2003 ) .",
    "the mass of the object is very well constrained .",
    "the timing data puts a firm _ lower _ mass limit of a jupiter mass ; as more data has come in , the _ upper bound _ on the mass has steadily shrunk . when timing first hinted at the presence of the third object in the system , the mass was only weakly constrained ( c.f .",
    "michel 1995 ) , although various arguments suggested that a low mass solution might be preferred ( c.f .",
    "thorsett et al .",
    "1993 , sigurdsson 1993 , phinney 1993 , rasio 1994 , joshi and rasio 1997 ) . by 1999",
    "thorsett et al . , using measurements of the precession of the inner orbit produced by the tidal field of the outer object , had effectively excluded stellar mass companions , and the main issue was whether the object was properly a brown dwarf , formed through star formation processes , or whether it was a planet . when the assumption is made that the pulsar spin - period derivative is negligibly small ( which is true if the magnetic field of the pulsar is a typical @xmath2  g , thorsett et al .",
    "1993 , 1999 ) , then preliminary analysis of the most recent timing data finds a unique keplerian solution , with @xmath3 , @xmath4 , and orbital period @xmath5  yrs . ( a detailed analysis , relaxing the assumption on the spin - period derivative and including orbital perturbation measurements to constrain @xmath6 is in preparation . )    the serendipitous observations of the white dwarf companion in deep multi - epoch hst imaging of m4 ( sigurdsson et al .",
    "2003 , richer et al .  2002 , 2003 , bassa et al .",
    "2003 ) provide constraints on the white dwarf mass and hence the inner binary inclination .",
    "these results , which confirm the prediction from the radio data , strongly favor a @xmath1 mass second companion .",
    "we must ask `` is it really a planet ? '' by definition , an object of this mass , orbiting a star , would be a jovian planet if observed in the solar neighbourhood . by inference , it is a gas giant .",
    "it seems very unlikely that a rocky or icy planet of such mass could form in m4 in any circumstances .",
    "a serious issue raised by the existence of this object is whether it formed through the canonical `` bottom - up '' core accretion process , or whether it formed through `` top - down '' collapse of cold gas that had become secularly unstable under its own gravity ( c.f .",
    "boss 2002 , 1997 ) .",
    "the former process would imply the existence of lower - mass planets that had failed to grow to the point where nebular gas accretes to the planet , and hence we would predict the presence or rocky or icy terrestrial planets in m4 specifically and in globular clusters more generally . in view of the observed correlation between the incidence rate of observable `` hot '' and `` warm '' jovians and host star metallicity in the solar neighbourhood ( c.f .  fischer and valenti 2003 ) , the possible prevalence of `` normal '' jovians around pop ii stars would be of particular interest , independent of the formation mechanism .",
    "clearly the possibility of low mass planet formation around pop ii stars has significant anthropic implications and for considerations of the prospect for extraterrestrial life .",
    "conversely , if the planet formed through top down collapse , we can further ask whether it formed in a cold protoplanetary disk , or as an independent quasi - spheroidal collapse  essentially as a low mass or failed brown dwarf . in principle , the different scenarios are testable .",
    "the possibility that the difficult of growing a massive icy core in low metallicity protoplanetary disks might be partially offset by the onset of gas accretion at a lower core mass is particularly intriguing ( c.f .",
    "rice and armitage 2003 ) .",
    "in addition to the very precise radio timing measurements of the spin frequency and its various derivatives and the observed time variation of some of the orbital parameters , a number of other observables of the system combine to provide key hints as to the formation and dynamical history of the system .",
    "these almost completely constrain its possible past .",
    "the data allow us to invert the dynamical history of the system with remarkable confidence to recover the initial conditions with relatively little ambiguity :    * almost as soon as the system was detected , the white dwarf orbital eccentricity was noted to be anomalously large ( mckenna and lyne 1988 ) . if the pulsar were spun - up through conservative mass transfer from the progenitor of the white dwarf ( c.f .  rappaport et al .",
    "1995 , phinney and kulkarni 1994 ) , we would expect the white dwarf eccentricity to have been several orders of magnitude smaller after the white dwarf detached .",
    "it is generally agreed that the current eccentricity was dynamically induced after mass - transfer was complete .",
    "the process by which this occurred has been somewhat contentious , with a number of less than satisfactory processes proposed .",
    "the cause of the white dwarf orbital eccentricity is now almost certainly confirmed to be the kozai mechanism ( ford et al .",
    "2000 ) , in which angular momentum is exchanged from the inclination of the planet s orbit to the eccentricity of the white dwarf s orbit .",
    "the current orbits are known to be significantly non - coplanar ( relative inclination of about @xmath7 ) , and the inclination must have been significantly larger still before angular momentum exchange took place ( @xmath8 ) , for the kozai mechanism to have induced the observed white dwarf orbital eccentricity . *",
    "the inferred current and original high relative inclination between the inner binary plane and the orbital plane of the planet is highly significant and a major clue to the possible formation paths for this system . *",
    "the planet orbit is now thought to have relatively _ low _ orbital eccentricity .",
    "this is a major constraint on formation scenarios , since most mechanisms that lead to high orbital inclination naturally also lead to high orbital eccentricity .",
    "exchange processes that leave a planet in a stable circumbinary orbit tend to naturally lead to moderate eccentricities and high inclination , since high eccentricity post - exchange orbits are generally dynamically unstable , and low eccentricity orbits are improbable due to the small available phase space at low eccentricity .",
    "the current low planet orbital eccentricity may then be due to circularization of the initially moderately eccentric planet orbit during adiabatic mass loss of the white dwarf progenitor envelope , during which the system mass went from an initial @xmath9 to the current @xmath10 .",
    "the planet s semi - major axis increased in proportion at that time .",
    "this sequence requires the planet be in place before the white dwarf progenitor evolved off the main - sequence .",
    "+ to a good approximation , during the rgb evolution of the white dwarf progenitor , we can treat the planet as a test particle in a keplerian orbit about a point mass potential with a central mass equal to the total mass of the neutron star and its companion .",
    "the loss of the envelope mass is slow , and the planet orbital evolution is adiabatic ; its energy changes in response to the loss of mass from the center , but the other integrals of motion are invariant .",
    "eccentricity in general is an orbital parameter , not an invariant , however , for a keplerian orbit , @xmath11 ; the eccentricity is a function of the integrals only , and is invariant to isotropic slow mass loss .",
    "the current eccentricity , @xmath12 , from current fits to the timing data , is somewhat lower than expected from exchange models ( which predict @xmath13 ) .",
    "it is possible this system had an unusually low initial post - exchange eccentricity , but this then raises the same fine tuning problems present in other scenarios .",
    "+ alternatively we can postulate a post - exchange planet eccentricity of about @xmath14 and ask whether circularization could have taken place without substantial decrease in inclination .",
    "given a current semi - major axis of @xmath15 , the post - exchange , pre - rgb phase , semi - major axis must have been @xmath16 , with a corresponding periastron of @xmath17 , assuming a median post - exchange eccentricity of @xmath14 . as the white dwarf progenitor evolved ,",
    "its orbit initially circularized , and then expanded as conservative mass transfer took place , until it reached its current orbit ; the time scale for such a mass transfer phase and spin - up is @xmath18 years . with a periastron of @xmath17 ,",
    "compared with a white dwarf progenitor final orbit of @xmath19 , we find that substantial tidal circularization of the planets orbit could have occurred at late stages of the mass transfer phase , yet the time scales are long enough that complete circularization is precluded .",
    "following verbunt and phinney ( 1995 ) , we estimate @xmath20 , or @xmath21 , consistent with an initial post - exchange orbital eccentricity of @xmath22 , in the range predicted , and consistent with the currently observed eccentricity .",
    "inclination changes during this phase should have been negligible ; unless there was significant planar outflow during mass transfer , in which case coupling of the planet to the excretion ring during plane crossings could in principle be a concern .",
    "the system here of course is a triple , not a point mass secondary interacting with an extended massive central star , but the additional lever arm of the giant rotating about the inner system center - of - mass will in general somewhat enhance the tidal torque , making this scenarios more plausible .",
    "the inferred eccentricity of the planet s orbit , before the evolution of the pulsar companion to white dwarf , is then about @xmath14 , exactly in the range predicted for an exchange scenario ; and is not sensitive to the exact value of the current eccentricity . allowing the neutron star to accrete @xmath23 during mass transfer , with a correspondingly larger final total central mass , does not significantly change the predicted initial eccentricity ; if there was slow isotropic mass loss , some additional circularization due to tidal interaction with the wind is conceivable .",
    "mass accretion by the planet is negligible for all scenarios ; mass loss due to lmxb ablation of the planet is also negligble for plausible lmxb phase luminosities .",
    "+ if the planet eccentricity was initially low , negligible tidal circularisation took place , if the planet eccentricity was initially substantially higher , then there was opportunity for significant tidal circularisation during the mass transfer phase ; if the mass transfer phase was extended . since this is a long period , low mass binary pulsar , we expect sub - eddington mass transfer with mass transfer time scales of @xmath24 yrs or longer , depending on the core mass of the main sequence progenitor post - exchange and the eccentricity of the main sequence progenitor orbit before circularization of the inner orbit and onset of mass transfer ( cf burderi et al 1996 , webbink et al 1983 ) .",
    "* the hst data reveals the white dwarf is young .",
    "the main sequence progenitor was presumably as old as the cluster , 12.7 gyrs , but the white dwarf emerged from the mass transfer phase just under 0.5 gyrs ago .",
    "this is consistent with a single exchange , where the white dwarf progenitor was acquired by the neutron star some 12  gyr ago , and the recoil induced by the super - elastic exchange ejected the system to the outer parts of the cluster , where stellar densities are low and interaction time scales are long .",
    "therefore the system has probably been mostly dynamically isolated since the exchange .",
    "* the projected pulsar position is somewhat outside cluster core .",
    "the true position of the pulsar is of course probably somewhat further from the core than we see in projection .",
    "since the system is significantly more massive than the main sequence turnoff , or indeed any likely other stellar component in m4 , it tends to sink to the core through dynamical friction .",
    "the current characteristic time - scale for the orbit of the triple to sink back into the cluster core through dynamical friction is about a gyr , and its current position is consistent with an initial orbit with an apocenter beyond the half mass radius and total dynamical lifetime of 2 - 3 gyrs , which is consistent with a single exchange origin , combined with ejection from the core .    given these data , and the current pulsar kinematics , we can construct a canonical formation scenario for the system .",
    "the pulsar is very unlikely to have formed as a member of the current binary .",
    "a small fraction of neutron stars appear to have sub - solar mass companions .",
    "for the white dwarf to be at the current 1 au orbit , its progenitor must have been in a tighter orbit initially , and for such a system to have survived the supernova that formed the neutron star , there must have been a modest natal kick on the system .",
    "however , given a kick that would leave a tight low mass binary , the system most likely would have been ejected from the cluster by the net kick on the center of mass of the system ( c.f .",
    "phinney and kulkarni 1994 ) .",
    "more likely the pulsar was originally a member of a pulsar - heavy white dwarf system , descended from intermediate mass binaries ( davies and hansen 1998 ) , which is consistent with retention of the system in the globular cluster at formation .",
    "the pulsar would then have started as a normal slow pulsar , and been recycled to millisecond periods by its original companion ( most likely @xmath25 white dwarf in an orbit with semi - major axis of order @xmath26 ) .",
    "the system formed with the cluster , and spent most of the subsequent time in the cluster core .",
    "m4 presumably has been slowly evolving in density , with the core density increasing somewhat in the last few gyrs as the cluster evolves towards core - collapse ( c.f .",
    "meylan and heggie 1997 ) .",
    "then , some 1 - 2 gyrs ago , the neutron star binary encountered a main - sequence star near the turnoff mass .",
    "given the structure of the cluster , the most likely star to undergo an exchange with a neutron star binary is a turnoff mass star ( sigurdsson 1993b , sigurdsson and phinney 1995 ) .",
    "that this happened relatively recently in the cluster history is not coincidental , the pulsar is bright and therefore likely relatively recently recycled , and given cluster dynamical evolution , the probability of an exchange taking place has increased with time over the last few gyrs . _ the original white dwarf member of the binary is ejected from the system .",
    "the main sequence star , with a mass somewhat higher than the original white dwarf , becomes a member of the binary .",
    "the current white dwarf member of the binary is the descendant of this main sequence star_.    such an exchange is super - elastic , and the system recoils from the core of the cluster with a substantial velocity , traveling far from the core ( sigurdsson 1993a , 1995 ) .",
    "mass - transfer ensues when the new member of the system evolves off the main sequence , the orbit circularizes and expands , and the system is x - ray luminous .",
    "the current pulsar , recycled for the second time , emerges when the white dwarf forms and the system detaches .",
    "the white dwarf is under - massive for its progenitor mass , as observed , since the rgb phase was terminated prematurely , and no helium core burning took place ( sigurdsson et al .",
    "2003 , rappaport et al .",
    "1995 ) .    in the particular scenario proposed by sigurdsson ( 1993a , 1995 )",
    "the main sequence star was a primordial cluster star , formed in the outer part of the cluster , and it spent most of its life in the outskirts of m4 , entering the core relatively recently .",
    "this is not improbable .",
    "half the stellar mass of the cluster is outside the half - mass radius ( which does not vary much during the dynamical evolution of the cluster ) , and at late times , as the turnoff mass of the cluster approached that of this particular star , the white dwarf progenitor would have sunk to the core through dynamical friction , because the turnoff mass is higher than the mean stellar mass .",
    "the planet was formed around the star at the time the cluster formed ; it was possibly one of many planets in the system ( most likely the most massive planet ) , and it exchanged into the current configuration during the same encounter that the white dwarf progenitor , its parent star , was exchanged into the system ( sigurdsson 1992 , 1993a , ford et al .",
    "the probability of a planet exchanging to be bound to the neutron star at the same time as the main sequence star is about 10 - 20% ( _ ibid _ ) .",
    "if there was more than one planet in the system , the exchange probability is increased in proportion , to first order ; if more the one planet is exchanged , the final state is generally unstable and there are subsequent ejections or collisions until only one planet remains .",
    "although there is `` room '' in orbital space for multiple planets , the probability of more than one remaining is low for any given system .",
    "as note above , this scenario predicts high inclination , and a modest initial eccentricity , @xmath27 for the planet s orbit , somewhat higher than currently observed ( sigurdsson 1993a ) .",
    "the system is unstable to subsequent encounters , but while it is outside the cluster core , the probability of another encounter is small , and the expected lifetime of the system is many gyrs .",
    "once the system returns to the core , the lifetime of the planet to disruption by another encounter is @xmath24 yrs .",
    "if correct , the proposed scenario has significant implications . _ a priori _ , observing an exchanged planet around one of",
    "the first discovered and longest observed globular cluster pulsars is likely only if planets are prevalent around globular cluster main sequence stars .",
    "planet formation in dense environments is thought to be inhibited both dynamically and because of the ionizing radiation from hot , young cluster member stars ( c.f .",
    "bally 2003 ) , although recent work shows the inner protoplanetary disk may be robust and generally survive long enough for planet formation in most of the cluster volume ( bally nai abscicon 2004 meeting ) , in which case most stars formed in globular clusters may have had the opportunity for planet formation to proceed in any protoplanetary circumstellar disks .      *",
    "the most straightforward alternative is a double exchange scenario ( c.f .",
    "joshi and rasio 1997 ) . in this scenario , the pulsar - white dwarf system forms normally , as above , but the planet is not initially present .",
    "rather the planet is acquired through a second independent exchange encounter outside the cluster core .",
    "this scenario is attractive in that it removes constraints on the sequence of timing of events , the pulsar recycling may have occurred at any point , and the tight restrictions on time scales for future disruption are removed since the planet may have been acquired recently . in objection to this scenario ,",
    "there is the observed fact that the white dwarf formed recently , and precisely on the time scale required to match the single exchange scenario ; and , the low orbital eccentricity of the planet suggests strongly that the orbit circularized after exchange , which requires the planet to have been acquired before the white dwarf progenitor evolved off the main sequence ( c.f .",
    "bailyn et al .  1994 ) . in either case",
    ", the double exchange scenario also implies the presence of jovian planets in wide orbits about cluster main sequence stars , and that these planets are not rare .",
    "thus the implications for pop ii planet formation hold . *",
    "an alternative scenario is that the exchange process proceeded as above , but that the parent star of the planet was a galactic field interloper , a disk star either passing through the cluster , or , more likely , capture by the cluster during disk passage ( c.f .",
    "bica et al .",
    ". exchange with a transient disk star is unlikely , because of the high relative velocity and short time scale for passage on an unbound disk star .",
    "a disk star captured by the globular during disk passage is more likely to have had an opportunity for exchange . in this case",
    "the planet formed around a metal rich pop i star and implications for planet formation are less interesting . arguing against this scenario , is that although some models suggest some globulars maybe significantly contaminated by disk interlopers , the m4 stellar population is well studied , known to be homogenous and coeval , and proper motion membership of stars has been established ( c.f .",
    "richer et al .",
    "2002 , ivans et al .  2003 ) .",
    "thus interlopers can not be common in m4 , and the _ a priori _ probability of a rare interloper undergoing an exchange encounter with the one pulsar is very low . * a commonly raised concern is whether the planet in this system could have formed in situ after the supernova that presumably lead to the neutron star formation , by analogy with the well known psr  b1257 + 12 planet system ( wolszczan and frail 1992 ) .",
    "this is not possible .",
    "the planet is in a high angular momentum orbit , to transport it there from a close low angular momentum orbit without disrupting the system is very unlikely ; to transport it to a high inclination , low eccentricity orbit is a negligible probability process . *",
    "livio et al .",
    "( 1992 ) proposed that planet formation might be efficient in the post - merger debris of a wd - wd merger .",
    "one might speculate that the psr  1620 - 26 system is a descendant of such a system .",
    "the primary objection here is the same as for post - supernova formation ; such a process would be expected to lead to compact low angular momentum systems . *",
    "a somewhat intriguing possibility is that the pulsar formed from accretion induced collapse ( aic ; bailyn and grindlay 1990 ) . in this scenario ,",
    "the system formed from a high mass white dwarf which presumably collapsed due to mass transfer from the progenitor of the young white dwarf ( although one can imagine combining an aic scenario with an exchange process ) .",
    "then the planet would either be exchanged from another cluster star , as before ; or formed in situ .",
    "if it formed at the same time as the stars , then its survival in a circumbinary orbit is remarkable and the system must have formed in the far outskirts of the cluster and not yet reached the cluster core .",
    "an attractive aspect of the scenario is that the planet would have formed in a circular orbit much closer to the binary , with the current orbit coming from adiabatic expansion during mass loss , and the planet eccentricity induced by the sudden loss in rest mass due to neutrino flux at aic .",
    "a strong counterargument to this scenario is that the planet is in a high inclination orbit , and the white dwarf orbital eccentricity is too low for an aic scenario : it ought to be comparable to the planet orbit eccentricity .",
    "the eccentricity discrepancy can be overcome if there was mass transfer after aic , which terminated before re - circularization was complete , which may require some fine tuning of time scales . *",
    "another alternative is formation during the post - main sequence evolution of the white dwarf progenitor ( c.f .",
    "livio and pringle 2003 ) . in this scenario ,",
    "metal rich outflow through the outer lagrange point forms an excretion disk around the neutron star - giant system , where the material can cool and planet formation may proceed , in principle . we note that this particular system never underwent an agb phase , since core evolution was terminated during rgb ascent . outflows also occur during the early stages of rgb evolution , but the material will not be significantly enriched in metals , since no helium core burning has taken place . since one motivation for alternative planet formation scenarios is to avoid the difficulty of planet formation in cool , metal poor , protoplanetary disks , it is presumably harder to form the same planet in a hot , metal poor , thick excretion disk .",
    "note also that the planet then has to form around a low mass x - ray binary with strong ambient ionizing radiation , and the formation must take place in the outer disk , unlike the case of psr  1257 + 12 , where planet formation took place in the optically thick inner disk ( miller and hamilton 2001 , hansen 2002 ) .",
    "+ _ independent of theoretical arguments , the alternative scenario where the planet formed in a hot rgb envelope post - main sequence is testable . exchanged planets will only be found around pulsars in dense , low dispersion environments , such as globular clusters .",
    "planets formed in rgb envelopes must also presumably form around metal rich rgb companions of disk pulsars which are members of low mass binaries .",
    "therefore this alternative scenario predicts that low mass binary pulsars in the galactic disk should have circumbinary jovian planets , a possibility which is not allowed by the exchange scenario .",
    "_    as always when constructing theoretical scenarios for unique observed astronomical systems , one can imagine unique formation paths which can not be excluded by the present data .",
    "judicious , but not over - exuberant , application of ockham s razor is then probably the best way of choosing favored scenarios .",
    "we note that some of the alternative formation scenarios involve the essential point of dynamical exchange of a pre - formed planet which was a member of a main sequence star system with a primary star which was solar like but from the metal poor population ii .",
    "in the immediate future , further observations of the system will take place : spectroscopy of the white dwarf , using gemini , to confirm the photometric estimates of mass , composition and cooling age . if additional _",
    "data are taken , then the proper motion of system will be measured to a high precision compared to the internal cluster dispersion .",
    "there is little prospect of system radial velocity measurements with current generation of instruments and telescopes , and obtaining the true radial position of the pulsar in the cluster is not currently possible ( although measurements of the apparent orbital period derivative may eventually set useful constraints on the acceleration of the system in the mean cluster potential , which when coupled with a cluster model could yield the 3d pulsar position relative to the center ) .",
    "however , the orbit of the system in the cluster potential will be significantly constrained by proper motion studies and will test the formation scenario .    more importantly , psr  b1620@xmath026 is proof of concept that precision timing of pulsars can find diverse planetary companions , and complements the breakthrough discovery of the first planetary system around psr  b1257 + 12 ( blandford et al .",
    "1987 , wolszczan and frail 1992 ) .",
    "we need to find more pulsar planetary systems , and we should expect to do so as more data becomes available . this pulsar is bright , nearby and has been monitored for a long time , which maximizes the prospect for detecting a planet in the system .",
    "the planet is also quite massive , which makes it easier to detect .",
    "this technique could find terrestrial planets if they exist , and as discussed in sigurdsson ( 1992 ) it should be possible to distinguish natively formed planets like those in psr  1257 + 12 from planets formed around main sequence stars and exchanged into a pulsar orbit by the kinematics .",
    "any further detection would place important constraints on planet formation .",
    "detection of low mass planets in pop ii systems would show core accretion formation is efficient even at low metallicities .",
    "absence of low mass planets and a preponderance of super - jovians ( modulo the selection bias towards detection of high mass planets ) would provide strong support for formation through disk instabilities .",
    "it is of course also possible that both mechanisms operate ( c.f .",
    "haghighipour and boss 2003 , durisen et al .  2004 )",
    ".    if planet formation is prevalent around metal poor population ii stars , which is implied but not absolutely proven by the observation of a single example , then there are significant anthropic implications , for the prospects for origin and evolution of extraterrestrial life and seti , and for strategies for future planet searches .",
    "in particular , pop ii planets would be a strong test of both the `` rare earth '' hypothesis ( ward and brownlee 2000 ) , and the conjecture of the `` galactic habitable zone '' ( gonzalez et al .",
    "2001 ) .",
    "a further test of planet formation theory would come through testing of planet migration scenarios and whether migration is a dominant process in formation of planetary systems , or a fringe process made prominent by the selection biases of early phases of planetary observational searches .",
    "in contrast to the positive detection of a planet in m4 , is the absence of detection of short orbital period jovians in a transit search of 47 tuc ( gilliland et al .",
    "a number of explanations of the discrepancy are possible : it could be random chance , either the detection in m4 , or the non - detections in 47 tuc could be small number statistics and moderate luck . alternatively , globular clusters could be heterogeneous with planets forming in some clusters , but not others ( c.f .",
    "soker 2003 ) , which is a testable hypothesis if many systems are found .",
    "another intriguing alternative is that migration is metallicity dependent and the prevalence of observed planets around metal rich stars in the solar neighbourhood reflect this .",
    "livio and pringle ( 2003 ) find a relatively weak theoretical dependence of the migration process on the disk metallicity , but if migration is rare and not dominant ( i.e. , if most nearby stars have long period jovians ) , then maybe we can infer that migration is a `` touchngo '' process , and a small difference in the physics results in a large difference in the incidence . alternatively , we can conjecture that migration is sensitive to external perturbations , dynamical or radiative , and therefore inhibited to some extent in dense star forming regions .    in conclusion , the confirmation of the second companion of psr  b1620@xmath026 as a planet is a potential key step in our understanding of planet formation processes and a way - guide for planet detection strategies . as a unique example , our inferences are necessarily weak and conditional , but if further analogous examples are found we can make strong tests of theories of planet formation and scenarios for the origin and evolution of life in the universe .",
    "we thank tom abel , brad hansen and harvey richer for helpful discussions .",
    "ss s research was supported in part by nsf grant phy-0203046 and the center for gravitational wave physics , an nsf funded physics frontier center at penn state , and by the penn state astrobiology research center , supported by the nasa astrobiology institute . set",
    "thanks his many collaborators who share credit for the observations of this system , particularly zaven arzoumanian , ingrid stairs , and joe taylor .",
    "his work is supported by nsf grant ast-0098343 .",
    "we also thank the aspen center for physics for its hospitality .",
    "backer , d.c . ,",
    "foster , r.s .",
    "& sallmen , s. , 1993 , nature , 365 , 817 bally , j. , 2003 , in pasp conf .",
    "proc . , 287 , 263 bassa , c. , et al , 2004 , , in press ( astro - ph/0402197 ) bailyn , c.d . & grindlay , j.e . , 1990 , , * 353 * , 159 bailyn , c.d . , et al , 1994 , , * 433 * , 89 bica , e. , et al , 1997 , , * 482 * , 49 blandford , r.d . ,",
    "romani , r.w . & applegate , j.h . , 1987 , , * 225 * , p51 boss , a. , 2002 , , * 567 * , 149 boss , a. , 1997 , science , * 276 * , 1836 burderi , l. , king , a.r .",
    "& wynn , g.a . , 1996 , , * 457 * , 348 davies , m.b .",
    "& hansen , b.m.s . , 1998 , , * 301 * , 15 durisen , r.h . , et al , 2004 , icarus , submitted ( astro - ph/0312611 ) fischer , d.a .",
    "& valenti , j.a .",
    ", 2003 , pasp conf .",
    "proc . , 294 , 117 ford , e.b .",
    ", et al , 2000 , * 528 * , 336 gilliland et al 2000 , , * 545 * , 47 gonzalez , g. , brownlee , d. & ward , p.d . , 2001 ,",
    "icarus , * 152 * , 185 haghighipour , n. & boss , a. , 2003 , , * 598 * , 1301 hansen , b.m.s . , 2002 , pasp conf . proc . *",
    "263 * , 221 ivans , i.i . , et al , 1999 , , * 118 * , 1273 joshi , k.i .",
    "& rasio , f.a .",
    ", 1997 , , * 488 * , 901 livio , m. & pringle , j.e . , 2003 , , * 346 * , l42 livio , m. , pringle , j.e . & saffer , r.a .",
    ", 1992 , , * 257 * , p15 lyne , a.g . , et al , 1988 , nature , * 332 * , 45 mckenna , j. & lyne , a.g . , 1988 , nature , * 336 * , 226 meylan , g. & heggie , d.c . , 1997 , a&a rev . , * 8 * , 1 michel , f.c . , 1994 , , * 432 * , 239 miller , m.c . &",
    "hamilton , d.p . , 2001 , , * 550 * , 863 phinney , e.s . , 1993 , pasp conf .",
    "proc . , 50 , 141 phinney , e.s . & kulkarni , s.r . , 1994 , ara & a , * 32 * , 591 rappaport et al 1995 , , * 273 * , 731 rasio , f.a . , 1994 , , * 427 * , 107 richer , h.b . , et al , 2003 , , * 597 * , 45 richer , h.b . , et al , 2002 , , * 574 * , 151 rice , w.k.m . & armitage , p.j . , 2003 ,",
    "apjl , * 598 * , 55 sigurdsson , s. , 1995 , , * 452 * , 323 sigurdsson , s. , 1993a , , * 415 * , 43 sigurdsson , s. , 1993b , pasp conf proc . , 50 , 181 sigurdsson , s. , 1992 , , * 399 * , 95 sigurdsson , s. , 2003 , science , * 301 * , 193 sigurdsson , s. & phinney , e.s . , 1995 , , * 99 * , 609 soker , n. , 2003 , iau conf .",
    ", 219 , in press ( astro - ph/0309538 ) thorsett , s.e . , et al , 1999 , , * 523 * , 763 thorsett , s.e . , et al , 1993 , , * 412 * , 33 verbunt , f. & phinney , e.s . , 1995 ,  , * 296 * , 709 ward , p.d",
    "& brownlee , d. , `` rare earth '' , copernicus - springer ( 2000 ) webbink , r.f . ,",
    "rappaport , s. & savonije , g.j .",
    ", 1983 , , * 270 * , 678 wolszczan , a. & frail , d.a . , 1992 , nature , * 355 * , 145"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the combination of ever more precise radio timing data and serendipitous _ hst _ data has confirmed that the outer companion to psr b1620@xmath026 is a planet . here </S>",
    "<S> we summarize the observational situation , including preliminary new timing solutions and the implications of the measured system parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we detail the proposed formation scenarios , discussing the advantages and problems of each for explaining the origin of the triple , and we speculate on some of the implications for planet formation in the early universe . future data on this system will provide additional constraints on fundamental modes of planet formation . </S>",
    "<S> we predict that many more exchanged planets will be discovered orbiting recycled pulsars in globular clusters as the sensitivity and duration of radio timing increases . </S>",
    "<S> strong observational tests of some of the alternative formation models should be possible with additional data .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in </S>"
  ]
}