{
  "article_text": [
    "the basic view that we have of the solar wind is that of a magnetofluid pervaded by fluctuations over a wide range of scales which are strongly modified by the effects of the dynamics during the expansion into the interplanetary medium .",
    "these effects are more relevant within the inner heliosphere and on the ecliptic where the stream  stream dynamics more strongly reprocesses the original plasma and the large velocity shears add new fluctuations to the original spectrum ( coleman , 1968 , roberts et al . , 1991 ) .",
    "this scenario has reconciled the `` wave '' point of view proposed by belcher and davis ( 1971 ) , i.e. solar origin of the fluctuations , and the `` turbulence '' point of view , i.e. local generation due to velocity shears , proposed by coleman(1968 ) .",
    "the first consequence of this scenario is that large fluctuations of solar origin containing energy interact non  linearly with other fluctuations of local origin giving rise to an energy exchange between different scales , which can be interpreted as the usual energy cascade towards smaller scales in fully developed turbulence . as a matter of fact",
    ", spacecraft observations have shown that the spectral slope of the power spectrum of these fluctuations changes with the radial distance from the sun ( bavassano et . , 1982 ,",
    "denskat and neubauer , 1983 ) .",
    "this behaviour was recognized ( tu et al . , 1984 ) as a clear experimental evidence that cascade processes due to",
    "non  linear interaction between opposite propagating alfvn waves were active in the solar wind with .",
    "one of the consequences of this radial evolution was the observed radial decrease of the correlation of velocity and magnetic field fluctuations ( generally known as cross helicity , or alfvnicity)(roberts et al .",
    "these observations finally answered to the question of whether the observed fluctuations were remnants of coronal processes or were dynamically created during the expansion .",
    "however , successive theoretical models ( see review by tu and marsch , 1995 ) which tried to obtain the radial spectral evolution of the solar wind fluctuations had to deal with peculiarities of the observations that they could not reproduce within the framework of solely non  linear interacting waves . the lack of a strict self  similarity of the fluctuations and the consequent non applicability of strict scale invariance ( marsch and liu , 1993 ) , the strong anisotropy shown by velocity and field fluctuations ( bavassano et al . , 1982 ,",
    "tu et al . , 1989 , roberts , 1992 ) , the different radial evolution of the minimum variance direction for magnetic field and velocity ( klein et al . , 1993 ) , the lack of equipartition between magnetic and velocity fluctuations ( matthaeus and goldstein , 1982 , bruno et al . , 1985 )",
    "all contributed to suggest the idea that fluctuations could possibly be due to a mixture of propagating waves and static structures convected by the wind .",
    "some kind of filamentary structure , similar to flux tubes , was firstly proposed by mccracken and ness ( 1966 ) and the observed spectral radial evolution of the large scale fluctuations has been attributed to the interaction of outward propagating alfvn waves with these structures ( tu and marsch , 1993 , bruno and bavassano , 1991 ; bavassano and bruno , 1992 ) .",
    "incompressible magnetic structures were found by tu and marsch ( 1991)and magnetic fluctuations with a large correlation length parallel to the ambient magnetic field , suggested the idea of a quasi  two  dimensional , incompressible turbulence for which @xmath0 ( matthaeus et al . , 1990 ) .",
    "thus , solar wind fluctuations are not isotropic and scale  invariant , two of the fundamental hypotheses at the basis of k41 kolmogorov s theory ( 1941 ) .",
    "this theory is based on an important statistical relation , which characterizes turbulent flows , between velocity increments @xmath1 , measured along the flow direction @xmath2 , and the energy transfer rate @xmath3 at the scale separation @xmath4 , that is @xmath5 or , more in general , @xmath6 .",
    "if @xmath3 is constant , the previous relation simply reads @xmath7 and fluctuations are said to be _ self  similar _ , and our signal is a simple fractal . however , as remarked by landau ( kolmogorov , 1962 , obukhov , 1962 ) , if @xmath3 statistically depends on scale due to the mechanism that transfers energy from larger to smaller eddies , @xmath3 will be replaced by @xmath8 and a new scaling has to be evaluated @xmath9 . expressing @xmath10 via a scaling relation with @xmath11",
    ", we obtain @xmath12 and , consequently , @xmath13 where @xmath14 is generally a nonlinear function of @xmath15 .",
    "this means that the global scale invariance required in the k41 theory would release towards a local scale invariance where different fractal sets characterized by different scaling exponents can be found .",
    "one of the consequences of this lack of a universal scale invariance , directly observed in experimental tests , is that the shape of the probability density functions ( pdfs ) of the velocity increments at a given scale is not the same for each scale but roughly evolves from a gaussian shape , near the integral scale , to a distribution whose tails are much flatter than those of a gaussian , resembling a stretched exponential near the dissipation scale .",
    "this means that the largest events , contained in the tails of the distribution , do not follow the gaussian statistics but show a much larger probability .",
    "this phenomenon is also called intermittency and , in practice , fluctuations of a generic time series affected by intermittency , alternate intervals of very high activity to intervals of quiescence .",
    "because of this lack of gaussianity , the study of the fluctuations based on conventional spectral analysis is strongly limited , and the second order moment of the distribution is not longer the limiting order . an alternative way for characterizing the fluctuations is to investigate directly the differences of a fluctuating field over all the possible spatial scales and look at moments of orders higher than 2 , adopting the so - called multifractal approach ( parisi and frisch , 1985 ) . a convenient statistical tool to perform this study is the so  called @xmath16 order structure function ( sf ) defined as @xmath17 and @xmath18 is expected to scale as @xmath19 .",
    "sfs are then computed for various orders as a function of all the possible scales and each order provides a value of the scaling exponent @xmath20 .",
    "if observations show a non  linear departure from the simple @xmath21 ( or @xmath22 for the mhd case ( carbone , 1993 ) ) this is an indication that intermittency is present .",
    "this method was introduced for the first time in space plasma studies by burlaga ( 1991 ) who studied the exponents @xmath20 of structure functions based on voyager s observations of solar wind speed at 8.5 au .",
    "this author found that , similarly to what is found in ordinary laboratory turbulent fluids , the exponent @xmath20 was not equal to @xmath23 , as expected in the k41 theory .",
    "this exponent was found to scale non - linearly with the order @xmath15 and to be consistent with a variety of newer theories of intermittent turbulence , including kolmogorov ",
    "obukhov ( 1962 ) .",
    "the first results obtained by burlaga ( 1991 ) and carbone et al .",
    "( 1995 ) not only revealed the intermittent character of interplanetary magnetic field and velocity fluctuations but also showed an unexpected similarity to those obtained for laboratory turbulence ( anselmet et al.,1984 ) .",
    "these results showed consistency between observations on scales of 1 au and laboratory observations on scales of meters , suggesting a sort of universality of this phenomenon , which was independent on scale .",
    "while previous results referred to observations in the outer heliosphere , marsch and liu ( 1993 ) firstly investigated solar wind scaling properties in the inner heliosphere .",
    "for the first time they provided some insights on the different intermittent character of slow and fast wind , on the radial evolution of intermittency and on the different scaling characterizing the three components of velocity .",
    "they also concluded that the alfvnic turbulence observed in fast streams starts from the sun as self  similar but then , during the expansion , decorrelates becoming more multifractal .",
    "this evolution was not seen in the slow wind supporting the idea that turbulence in fast wind is mainly made of alfvn waves and convected structures ( tu and marsch , 1993 ) as already inferred by looking at the radial evolution of the level of cross  helicity in the solar wind ( bruno and bavassano , 1991 ) . as we will see in the following ,",
    "although the tools used in our analysis differ from those used by marsch and liu ( 1993 ) our results fully confirm their results but also add some more inferences on the radial evolution of solar wind intermittency .    successively , several other papers tried to understand the phenomenon of intermittency in the solar wind looking for the best model which could fit the observations or could establish whether the observed scaling was closer to that shown by an ordinary fluid or rather by a magnetofluid as predicted by kolmogorov ( 1941 ) and kraichnan ( 1965 ) , respectively .",
    "ruzmainkin et al . , ( 1995 ) studying fast wind data observed by ulysses developed a model of alfvnic turbulence in which they reduced the spectral index of magnetic field fluctuations by an amount depending on the intermittency exponent .",
    "they found a close agreement with the expected kraichnan scaling for a magnetofluid ( @xmath24 ) and concluded that their results were consistent with a turbulence based on random  phased alfvn waves ( kraichnan , 1965 ) .",
    "tu et al . , ( 1996 ) re  elaborated the tu ( 1988 ) model of developing turbulence including intermittency derived from the p - model of meneveau and sreenivasan ( 1987 ) .",
    "they obtained a new expression for the scaling exponent that took into account that , for turbulence not fully developed , the spectral index is not defined yet .",
    "carbone et al . , ( 1995 ) , for the first time adopted the extended self  similarity ( ess ) concept ( benzi et al . , 1993 ) to interplanetary data collected by voyager and helios , and looked for differences in the scaling properties between interplanetary magnetofluid and ordinary fluid turbulence obtained in laboratory .",
    "ess is a powerful method to easily recover the scaling exponent of the fluctuations exploiting the interdependency of the structure functions of various orders .",
    "these authors concluded that , differences exist between scaling exponents in ordinary ( unmagnetized ) fluid flows and hydromagnetic flows .",
    "horbury and balogh ( 1997 ) performed a comprehensive structure function analysis of ulysses data and concluded that interplanetary magnetic field fluctuations are more kolmogorov  like rather than kraichnan  like .",
    "veltri and mangeney ( 1999 ) , adopting a method based on the discrete wavelet decomposition of the signal identified for the first time intermittent events .",
    "successively , using conditioned structure - functions , they excluded any contribution from intermittent samples and were able to recover the scaling properties of the mhd fluctuations .",
    "in particular , the radial component of the velocity displayed the characteristic kolmogorov slope @xmath21 while the other components displayed the kraichnan slope @xmath22 .    all previous works dealt with the scaling exponents @xmath20 of the structure functions @xmath18 , aiming to show that they follow an anomalous scaling with respect to that expected from k41 theory for turbulent fluids .",
    "this anomalous scaling is strictly related to the way probability distribution functions ( pdfs ) of the increments change with scale .",
    "it is interesting to notice that if we consider fluctuations that follow a given scaling , say @xmath25 and introduce a change of scale , say @xmath26 ( @xmath27 ) , we end up with the following transformation @xmath28 .",
    "the importance of this relation is that the statistical properties of the left and right  hand  side members are the same ( frisch , 1995 ) , i.e. @xmath29 .",
    "this means that if @xmath30 is unique , the pdfs of the standardized variables @xmath31 reduces to a unique pdf highlighting the self  similar ( fractal ) nature of the fluctuations . in other words ,",
    "if all the pdfs of standardized fluctuations @xmath32 collapse to a unique pdf , fluctuations are not intermittent .",
    "intermittency implies multifractality and , as a consequence , an entire range of values for @xmath30 .",
    "castaing et al .",
    "( 1990 ) developed a model based on the idea of a log  normal energy cascade and showed that the non - gaussian behavior of the probability distribution functions ( pdf s ) at small scales can be represented by a convolution of gaussians whose variances are distributed according to a log - normal distribution whose width is represented , for each scale @xmath11 , by the parameter @xmath33 .",
    "this model has been adopted , for the first time in the solar wind context , by sorriso et al . , ( 1999 ) to fit the departure from a gaussian distribution of the pdfs of solar wind speed and magnetic field fluctuations at small scales . as a matter of fact , marsch and tu ( 1994 )",
    "had already shown that the pdfs closely resemble a gaussian distribution at large scales but , at smaller scales , their tails become more and more stretched as result of the fact that large events have a probability to happen larger than for a gaussian distribution .",
    "their results showed that values of @xmath33 relative to magnetic field were higher than those relative to velocity throughout the inertial range , confirming that pdf s of magnetic field fluctuations are less gaussian than those relative to wind speed fluctuations ( marsch and tu , 1994 ) .",
    "the same authors determined also the codimension of the most intermittent magnetic and velocity structures , suggesting that within slow wind intermittency is mainly due to compressive phenomena .",
    "moreover , the use of techniques recently adopted in the context of solar wind turbulence ( veltri and mangeney , 1999 , bruno et al .",
    "2001 ) based on wavelet decomposition allowed to identify those events causing intermittency .",
    "those events were identified as either compressive phenomena like shocks or planar sheets like tangential discontinuities separating contiguous regions characterized by different total pressure and bulk velocity , possibly associated to adjacent flux  tubes .    lately , padhye et al . , ( 2001 ) used the castaing approach to describe directly the pdfs of the fluctuations of the overall interplanetary magnetic field components .",
    "these authors concluded that all the components followed a rather gaussian statistics but they were not able to relate their results to those obtained by marsch and tu ( 1994 ) and sorriso et al .",
    "( 1999 ) who compared pdfs for different time scales . as a matter of fact ,",
    "padhye and co - workers referred to fluctuations respective to the mean field and not increments as it was done in the previous mentioned studies and in the present study .    in this paper , we base our analysis on the concept of intermittency as given by frisch ( 1995 ) , following which a random function @xmath34 is said to be intermittent if the flatness @xmath35 grows without bound as we filter out the lowest frequency components of our signal and consider only smaller and smaller scales .",
    "thus , we will define a given time series to be intermittent if @xmath36 continually grows at smaller scales and , we will define the same time series to be more intermittent if @xmath36 grows faster .",
    "moreover , if @xmath36 remains constant within a certain range of scales , it will indicate that those scales are not intermittent but simply self  similar and , a value of @xmath37 ( 3 is the value expected for a gaussian ) would simply indicate that those scales do not have a gaussian statistics .",
    "this is a simpler way than that used by sorriso et al .",
    "( 1999 ) to look at the behaviour of the flatness to infer the intermittency character of the fluctuations but , what we gain in simplicity we loose in effectiveness to quantify the degree of intermittency and , we will only be able to evaluate whether a given sample is more or less intermittent than another one . in the following sections we will analyze and discuss the radial evolution of intermittency in the inner heliosphere and on the ecliptic plane evaluating the behavior of @xmath36 as previously illustrated .",
    "the present analysis was performed using plasma and magnetic field data recorded by helios 2 during its first solar mission in 1976 when the s / c repeatedly observed the same corotating stream at three different heliocentric distances on the ecliptic plane , during three consecutive solar rotations . in order to compare intermittency between high and low speed plasma , low speed regions ahead of each corotating high speed stream ,",
    "were also studied .",
    "the three streams , named `` 1 '' , `` 2 '' and `` 3 '' , respectively , can be identified in figure  1 where the wind speed profile and the spacecraft heliocentric distance are shown for the whole helios 2 primary mission to the sun .",
    "the exact location of the selected intervals , lasting 2 days each , is shown by the rectangles drawn on the data profile .",
    "beginning and end of each time interval are shown in table 1 where , we also show the average heliocentric distance , the average wind speed , the angle @xmath38 between magnetic and velocity vectors , the angle @xmath39 between magnetic field vector and radial direction and the angle @xmath40 between velocity vector and radial direction . while the velocity vector is always closely aligned with the radial direction , magnetic field vector generally follows the expected archimedean spiral configuration although this agreement is larger during fast wind than during slow wind time intervals .",
    "the data set is made of 81 sec averages of magnetic and plasma observations recorded in solar ",
    "ecliptic reference system se where , the @xmath41 axis is oriented towards the sun , the @xmath42 axis lies on the ecliptic and it is oriented opposite to the s / c direction of motion and , the @xmath43 axis completes the right  handed reference system .",
    "these fast wind streams are notorious for being dominated by alfvn waves and have been widely studied since they offer a unique opportunity to observe the radial evolution of mhd turbulence within the inner heliosphere ( for a rather complete review of existing literature related to this topic see tu and marsch , 1995 ) .",
    "the aim of the present study is to investigate the behavior of magnetic field and wind velocity intermittency as a function of heliocentric distance and type of wind ( i.e. fast and slow ) .",
    "although intermittency refers to the statistical behavior of the fluctuations in the spatial domain , it can be estimated from measurements made in the temporal domain simply adopting the taylor s frozen  in hypothesis .",
    "this assumption , which is fully acceptable within the usual conditions of strongly supersonic and super  alfvnic solar wind , allows to treat , with good approximation , each fluctuation as an eddy and spatial @xmath11 and temporal @xmath44 coordinates can be mutually exchanged via the relation @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the solar wind bulk speed . in order to study intermittency we computed the following estimator of the flatness factor @xmath36",
    "@xmath47where @xmath48 is the scale of interest and @xmath49 is the sf of order @xmath15 of the generic function @xmath50 .",
    "this definition slightly differs from that given by frisch ( 1995 ) since we compute the factor @xmath36 for each single scale while frisch calculates @xmath36 using a high  pass filter whose cutoff frequency is repeatedly shifted towards higher and higher frequencies each time . however , in both cases a given function is considered intermittent if the factor @xmath36 increases when considering smaller and smaller scales or , equivalently , higher and higher frequencies .",
    "a vector field , like velocity and magnetic field , encompasses two distinct contributions , a compressive one due to intensity fluctuations that can be expressed as    @xmath51    and a directional one due to changes in the vector orientation    @xmath52    obviously , relation [ directional ] takes into account also compressive contributions and the expression @xmath53 is always true .    in the following",
    "we will study the flatness factor @xmath36 obtained from sfs computed for both compressive @xmath54 and directional @xmath55 fluctuations . as regards this last quantity , we like to stress that we verified that magnetic sector changes do not appreciably influence its value and that in this study only interval ( 72:0074:00 ) contains a magnetic sector change . comparing the radial dependence of these two quantities for fast and slow wind and for magnetic field and velocity will turn out to be useful to better interpret the radial evolution of intermittency as observed in the solar wind mhd turbulence .",
    "our analysis will be based on the following definitions : 1 ) a given time series is defined intermittent if the factor @xmath36 monotonically increases moving from larger to smaller scales , 2 ) the same time series is defined more intermittent than another one if @xmath36 begins to increase at larger scales since , following castaing et al .",
    "( 1990 ) , this implies a larger inertial range and , consequently , a larger number of steps along the cascade with intermittency increasing at each step , 3)if @xmath36 starts to increase at the same scale for two different time series , we will consider more intermittent the one for which @xmath36 grows more rapidly .",
    "moreover , we like to remind that a gaussian statistics would show values of @xmath36 close to 3 for all scales , indicating the self  similar character of our fluctuations . however , if @xmath36 fluctuates around a value somewhat different from 3 our fluctuations are still self  similar although not gaussian . anyhow , in both cases these fluctuations are not considered intermittent .",
    "thus , our definition of intermittency will be limited to a qualitative definition rather than quantitative since the aim of the present work is only to compare the radial evolution of intermittency for different solar wind parameters and within different solar wind conditions .",
    "values of @xmath36 for both scalar and vector differences for magnetic field as a function of temporal scale @xmath56 expressed in seconds are shown in figure  2 .",
    "the factor @xmath36 has been computed for slow ( left column ) and fast ( right column ) wind and for three distinct radial distances as indicated by the different symbols used in the plots .",
    "in addition , errors relative to each value of @xmath36 are also shown .",
    "it is readily seen that magnetic field fluctuations in both slow and fast wind are intermittent since @xmath36 increases at small scales .",
    "values of @xmath36 for compressive fluctuations within slow wind ( panel a ) start to increase well beyond @xmath57 sec reaching values larger than 20 at the smallest scale .",
    "moreover , there is no evidence for any radial dependence since all the curves overlap to each other within the error bars . on the contrary ,",
    "compressive fluctuations for fast wind ( panel b ) show a clear radial dependence . as a matter of fact ,",
    "the three curves intersect each other at large scales down to @xmath58 sec but clearly separate at smaller scales indicating that intermittency increases with the radial distance from the sun .",
    "moreover , since within slow wind @xmath36 starts to grow at larger scales and reaches higher values at small scales , we can say that magnetic compressive fluctuations in slow wind , at least at 0.3 and 0.7 au , are more intermittent than those within fast wind .",
    "slow wind directional fluctuations ( panel c ) are also rather intermittent since @xmath36 starts to increase around @xmath59 sec , at frequencies slightly higher than for slow wind compressive fluctuations",
    ". however , these fluctuations are less intermittent than compressive fluctuations in the same type of wind since @xmath36 increases more slowly at small scales .",
    "moreover , there is no radial dependence .",
    "panel d shows the behavior of @xmath36 for directional fluctuations in fast wind .",
    "also in this case as for panel b , there is a clear radial dependence of intermittency on the radial distance .",
    "the flatness factor @xmath36 remains approximately constant and rather similar for the three distances at large scales down to @xmath60 sec and then increases more rapidly for larger heliocentric distances .",
    "thus , our sample at 0.9 au is more intermittent than that at 0.7 au , which , in turn , is more intermittent than that at 0.3 au . considering that the scales at which @xmath36 starts to increase is only around @xmath61 sec and that the values reached at small scales are lower , these fluctuations are less intermittent than the corresponding ones within slow wind and the compressive ones within the same fast wind .",
    "moreover , the fact that in panel d @xmath36 starts to increase at much smaller scales than in slow wind ( panel c ) , is strongly indicative that the inertial range in this case is much less extended as we already know from the existing literature ( see review by tu and marsch , 1995 ) .",
    "results relative to velocity fluctuations are shown in figure  3 in the same format adopted in the previous figure .",
    "values of @xmath36 for slow speed compressive fluctuations start to increase around @xmath57 sec ( panel a )",
    ". however , the three curves intersect each other various times along the whole range of scales showing that there is no clear radial dependence although , the smallest scale would suggest some radial evolution which , in addition , would be opposite to what is observed in fast wind .",
    "however , the large associated error bars do not allow us to draw any realistic conclusion .",
    "taking into account that the the scale at which @xmath36 starts to increase is of the same order of that relative to magnetic field compressive fluctuations in slow wind but @xmath36 reaches much lower values at small scales , we conclude that velocity compressive fluctuations are less intermittent than magnetic compressive fluctuations in slow wind .",
    "panel b , relative to velocity compressive fluctuations in fast wind , shows a clear radial dependence of @xmath36 .",
    "the three curves start to increase around @xmath61 sec and separate at smaller scales .",
    "then , intermittency increases from 0.3 to 0.9 au since @xmath36 increases more rapidly for larger heliocentric distances .",
    "this result is similar to what we observed for magnetic compressive fluctuations in fast wind although the overall intermittency in this case is much reduced taking into account that @xmath36 starts to increase at much smaller scales and reaches smaller values .",
    "panel c shows results relative to velocity directional fluctuations in slow wind .",
    "these curves , although less stable than the corresponding curves relative to magnetic field ( figure 2c ) , show a very similar behavior and no hint for a possible radial dependence .",
    "also panel d , where we report values of @xmath36 for velocity directional fluctuations in fast wind , shows results very similar to those shown for magnetic field in figure 2d to the extent that these two sets of curves overlap to each other , within the error .",
    "this last result , as it will be discussed later on in this paper , clearly derives from the strong contribution due to alfvnic fluctuations populating the fast corotating streams that we selected ( bruno et al . , 1985 ) . differently from magnetic field fluctuations ,",
    "velocity directional fluctuations seem to be only slightly less intermittent than compressive fluctuations .",
    "although , other authors ( marsch and liu , 1993 , marsch and tu , 1994 ) already addressed the study of the radial evolution of intermittency for magnetic field and velocity components , we like to provide a complete picture of this radial dependence adding a study performed in the mean field coordinate system ( mf , hereafter ) which , for magnetic field , is more appropriate than the usual rtn or se coordinate systems . as a matter of fact , the large scale interplanetary magnetic field configuration breaks the spatial symmetry and introduces a preferential direction along the mean field . as a consequence ,",
    "a natural reference system is the one for which one of the components , that we call @xmath62 , is along the mean field @xmath63 outwardly oriented , and the other two are perpendicular to this direction . in our case",
    "we chose one of the two perpendicular components @xmath64 to be perpendicular to the plane identified by @xmath63 and the mean solar wind velocity @xmath65 , so that @xmath66 and , the remaining direction @xmath67 descends from the vector product @xmath68 , where the symbol @xmath69 indicates a unitary vector . in the top panel of figure  4",
    ", we show values of @xmath36 for the three magnetic components in se reference system ( i.e. @xmath70 , @xmath71 and @xmath72 ) at the three different heliocentric distances previously chosen and , in the bottom panel , we show the components in the mf reference system ( i.e. @xmath62 , @xmath73 and @xmath64)for the same heliocentric distances . in the top",
    "panel @xmath36 increases for all the components as the radial distance increases .",
    "while at 0.9 au the three components show the same behavior , at 0.3 and 0.7 au the curve relative to @xmath70 runs above the other two curves .",
    "since the distance between these curves slightly increases at small scales we might conclude that the radial component is slightly more intermittent than the other two components .",
    "unfortunately , this conclusion is not corroborated by the size of the errors associated to each point , which are quite large .",
    "the bottom panel shows results relative to the mf reference system . at 0.3 and 0.7 au",
    "there is not much difference with the situation discussed in the previous panel because the orientation of the two reference systems is not very different either , given that the magnetic field is almost radially oriented ( see table 1 ) . on the contrary , moving to 0.9 au and comparing these results with those obtained in the other reference system , we clearly observe a decrease of @xmath36 for the two perpendicular components and an increase for the parallel component .",
    "since the three curves lie on the same level at large scales and end up with remarkable different values at small scales , we conclude that the component parallel to the local magnetic field is more intermittent than the perpendicular components",
    ". moreover , the two perpendicular components are less intermittent in the mf reference system than in se .",
    "this means that in the mf reference system we enhance on one hand the stochastic character of the fluctuations perpendicular to the local field direction and , on the other hand , the coherent character of the fluctuations along the local field direction .    in figure  5 we show , for the slow wind , the same elements discussed in the previous figure .",
    "the much steeper behavior of these curves suggests that , generally , slow wind is more intermittent than fast wind .",
    "moreover , especially at 0.3 au , there is a tendency for both @xmath70 , in the top panel , and @xmath62 , in the bottom panel , to be steeper than the other components at small scales , suggesting a higher intermittency but , this tendency is not confirmed at larger heliocentric distances . as discussed in the following , the reason for this appreciable different behavior of @xmath70 and @xmath62 might be due to the fact that so close to the sun the contribution due to alfvnic fluctuations , mainly acting on the perpendicular components , is not negligible even within slow wind ( bruno et al . , 1991 ) . as a matter of fact",
    ", the stochastic nature of the fluctuations due to alfvn waves tends to make more gaussian the pdfs of magnetic and velocity fluctuations perpendicular to the mean field direction . in conclusion",
    ", an overall view reveals that the behavior of @xmath36 within slow wind is not very sensitive to this change of reference system .    for sake of completeness",
    "we have rotated into the mf reference system also velocity fluctuations although this reference system is not the most appropriate for this parameter given that the wind expands radially .",
    "the two panels of figure  6 show , for the three heliocentric distances , the behavior of @xmath36 for fast wind velocity fluctuations in the se reference system and in the mf reference system , respectively .",
    "we like to remark that in the se reference system @xmath74 resembles very closely the behavior of the fast wind speed shown in figure  3 since the average wind velocity vector is always close to the radial direction",
    ". moreover , the two perpendicular components , @xmath75 and @xmath76 in se and @xmath77 and @xmath78 in mf , at 0.3 and at 0.7 au closely recall the behavior of the corresponding magnetic components within fast wind .",
    "however , the presence of a large plateau in the central part of @xmath74 and @xmath79 makes it more difficult to estimate the degree of intermittency of these components with respect to the perpendicular ones .",
    "at 0.9 au , due to a weaker stationarity in the data , the situation looks even more complex and does not allow to estimate which component is the most intermittent one .",
    "@xmath36 remarkably increases with distance at small scales for all the components in both reference systems .",
    "however , as expected , the rotation into the mf reference system does not have a large influence at 0.3 au but it causes a general increase of @xmath36 at 0.9 au .",
    "the enhancement is such that the two perpendicular components have the same behavior , and differences with the parallel component become appreciably smaller .",
    "this is due to the fact that in this reference system the fluctuations of the components are not longer independent from each other as it would be in se reference system .    finally ,",
    "in figure  7 , we show results relative to the slow wind in the same format of the previous figure . here , the very confused behavior of the curves and the large associated errors , especially at 0.7 and 0.9 au , suggest a rather weak stationarity of the data and make it difficult to compare the behavior of different components .",
    "a general comment that we can easily make is that these curves are much steeper and start to increase at much larger scales than in fast wind . as a consequence ,",
    "velocity components in slow wind are generally more intermittent than in fast wind .",
    "in addition , the rotation from se to mf does not influence much our results , as expected .",
    "however , it is such that the behavior of the three velocity components at 0.3 au looks more similar to that of the corresponding magnetic components ( figure  5 , lower panel ) .",
    "this suggests that alfvn waves , although less relevant than in fast wind , might play a role even in this sample of slow wind .",
    "we studied the radial dependence of solar wind intermittency looking at magnetic field and velocity fluctuations between 0.3 and 1 au .",
    "in particular , we analyzed compressive and directional fluctuations for both fast and slow wind .",
    "our analysis exploits the property that probability distribution functions of a fluctuating field affected by intermittency become more and more peaked at smaller and smaller scales .",
    "since the peakedness of a distribution is measured by its flatness factor we studied the behavior of this parameter at different scales to estimate the degree of intermittency of our time series .",
    "our general results can be summarized in the following points :    \\1 ) magnetic field fluctuations are more intermittent than velocity fluctuations ;    \\2 ) compressive fluctuations are more intermittent than directional fluctuations ;    \\3 ) slow wind intermittency does not show radial dependence ;    \\4 ) fast wind intermittency , for both magnetic field and velocity , clearly increases with distance .",
    "\\5 ) magnetic and velocity fluctuations have a rather gaussian behavior at large scales , as expected , regardless of type of wind or heliocentric distance .",
    "point 4 is particularly interesting because we found that both compressive and directional fluctuations become more intermittent with distance . as a matter of fact",
    ", if we think of relations [ compressive ] and [ directional ] we easily realize that while intermittency of directional fluctuations can be fully uncompressive , it is not possible to avoid that intermittency of compressive fluctuations contaminates directional fluctuations . in the latter case",
    ", the limiting condition would be the same intermittency level for both kind of fluctuations .",
    "thus , intermittency of directional fluctuations contains also contributions due to compressive fluctuations .",
    "this distinction plays an important role in discussing our results since the intermittency character of directional fluctuations reflects the contribution of both compressive phenomena and uncompressive fluctuations like alfvn waves .    now , there are at least two questions that we should address : 1 ) why directional fluctuations are always less intermittent than compressive fluctuations ? and , 2 ) why only fast wind shows radial evolution ?",
    "we can explain our observations simply assuming that the two major ingredients of interplanetary mhd fluctuations are compressive fluctuations due to a sort of underlying , coherent structure convected by the wind and stochastic alfvnic fluctuations propagating in the wind .",
    "the coherent nature of the first ingredient would contribute to increase intermittency while the stochastic character of the second one would contribute to decrease it .",
    "if this is the case , coherent structures convected by the wind would contribute to the intermittency of compressive fluctuations and , at the same time , would also produce intermittency in directional fluctuations .",
    "however , since directional fluctuations are greatly influenced by alfvnic stochastic fluctuations , their intermittency will be more or less reduced depending on the amplitude of the alfvn waves with respect to the amplitude of compressive fluctuations .",
    "thus , compressive fluctuations would always be more intermittent than directional fluctuations .    before addressing the second question , we like to recall that several papers have already shown ( see review by tu and marsch , 1995 ) that slow wind alfvnicity does not evolve with increasing the radial distance from the sun . as a matter of fact , power spectra exhibit a spectral index close to that of kolmogorov and a rather good equipartition between _ inward _ and _ outward _ modes ( tu et al . , 1989 ) .",
    "thus , once the inertial range is established , the alfvnicity of the fluctuations freezes to a state that , successively , is convected by the wind into the interplanetary space without major changes ( bavassano et al . , 2001 ) . on the other hand , within fast wind",
    ", turbulence is dominated by outward propagating alfvn waves , which strongly evolve in the inner heliosphere becoming weaker and weaker during the wind expansion , to the extent that at 1 au , on the ecliptic plane , their amplitude is much reduced and of the order of that of inward propagating alfvn waves . at that point",
    ", the resulting alfvnicity resembles the one already observed in the slow wind close to the sun ( tu and marsch , 1990 ) . keeping this in mind , taking into account that convected structures experience a much slower radial evolution because they do not interact with each other non  linearly as alfvn waves do , considering that alfvn waves are mainly found in fast rather than in slow wind , it comes natural to expect that intermittency would radially evolve within fast rather than slow wind . obviously",
    ", this would explain why directional fluctuations become more intermittent only within fast wind but would not explain why also compressive fluctuations become more intermittent within fast wind .",
    "in reality , if we consider that compressive events cause intermittency ( veltri and mangeney , 1991 , bruno et al .",
    ", 2001 ) , we might ascribe this different behavior to the fact that fast wind becomes more and more compressive with radial distance while the compressive level of slow wind remains approximately the same , as shown by marsch and tu , ( 1990 ) .",
    "our analysis performed on the components can also help to understand , although partially , the topology of these convected structures . in se reference system , fluctuations along the radial component are more intermittent than those perpendicular to it as already found by marsch and liu ( 1993 ) , although this feature , especially for the magnetic field , tends to vanish around 1 au .",
    "the reason is that perpendicular components are more influenced by alfvnic fluctuations and as a consequence their fluctuations are more stochastic and less intermittent .",
    "this effect largely reduces during the radial excursion mainly because the se reference system is not the most appropriate one for studying magnetic field fluctuations . as a matter of fact",
    ", the presence of the large scale spiral magnetic field breaks the spatial symmetry introducing a preferential direction parallel to the mean field .",
    "consequently , we showed , that if we rotate our magnetic data into the mean field reference system , especially at 0.9 au , the intermittency of the perpendicular components decreases and that of the parallel component increases .",
    "moreover , the two perpendicular components show a remarkable similar behavior as expected if they experience alfvnic fluctuations . on the other hand , results obtained on velocity fluctuations suggest that a reference system with an axis parallel to the radial direction looks more appropriate to perform a similar study showing that the radial component seems to be the most intermittent component .",
    "one further observation is that generally most of the curves relative to velocity fluctuations came out to be less stable than those relative to magnetic field fluctuations and affected by larger errors due to a weaker stationarity with respect to magnetic field data .    finally , our results can not establish whether magnetic and velocity structures causing intermittency are convected directly from the source regions of the solar wind or they are locally generated by stream  stream dynamic interaction or , as an alternative view would suggest ( primavera et al . , 2002 )",
    ", they are locally created by parametric decay instability of large amplitude alfvn waves .",
    "probably all these origins coexist at the same time and confirm that in any case the the radial dependence of the intermittency of interplanetary fluctuations is strongly related to the turbulent radial evolution of their spectrum .    1.5truecm    we thank f. mariani and n. f. ness , pi s of the magnetic experiment and , h. rosenbauer and r. schwenn , pi s of the plasma experiment onboard helios 1 and 2 , for allowing us to use their data .",
    "we also thank both referees for their valuable comments and suggestions .",
    "anselmet , f. , gagne , y. , hopfinger , e. j. , and antonia , r.a . , 1984 , high  order velocity structure functionsin turbulent shear flows , j. fluid mech . , 140 , 6389    bavassano , b. , m. dobrowolny , f. mariani , and n.f . ness , 1982 , radial evolution of power spectra of interplanetary alfvnic turbulence , j. geophys",
    "86 , 36173622    bavassano , b. , m. dobrowolny , g. fanfoni , f. mariani , and n.f .",
    "ness , 1982 , statistical properties of mhd fluctuations associated with high  speed streams from helios2 observations , solar phys .",
    ", 78 , 373384    b. bavassano , and r. bruno , 1992 , on the role of interplanetary sources in the evolution of low - frequency alfvnic turbulence in the solar wind , j. geophys .",
    "res . , 97 , 1912919137    bavassano , b. , pietropaolo , e. , bruno r. , 2001 , radial evolution of outward and inward alfvnic fluctuations in the solar wind : a comparison between equatorial and polar observations by ulysses , j. geophys . res . , 106 , 1065910668    belcher , j. w. , and l. davis , jr . , 1971 , large  amplitude alfvn waves in the interplanetary medium , 2 , j. geophys",
    "76 , 35343563 .",
    "benzi , r. , ciliberto , s. , tripiccione , r. , baudet , c , massaioli , f. , succi , s. , 1993 , extended sel  similarity in turbulent flows , phys .",
    "e 48 , r29    bruno , r. , bavassano , b. and villante , u. , 1985 , evidence for long period alfvn waves in the inner solar system , j. geophys .",
    "90 , 43734377 .",
    "bruno , r. and bavassano , b. , 1991 , origin of low cross ",
    "helicity regions in the inner solar wind , j. geophys .",
    "96 , 78417851 .",
    "bruno , r. , v. carbone , p. veltri , e. pietropaolo and b. bavassano , 2001 , identifying intermittent events in the solar wind , planetary space sci . , 49 , 12011210 .",
    "burlaga , l. , 1991 , intermittent turbulence in the solar wind , j. geophys .",
    "96 , 58475851 .",
    "carbone , v. , 1993 , cascade model for intermittency in fully developed magnetohydrodynamic turbulence , phys .",
    "71 , 1546 - 1548 .",
    "carbone , v .",
    ", veltri , p. , bruno , r. , 1995 , experimental evidence for differences in the extended self ",
    "silimarity scaling laws between fluid and magnetohydrodynamic turbulent flows , phys .",
    "75 , 31103120 .",
    "castaing , b. , gagne , y. , and hopfinger , 1990 , velocity probability density functions of high reynolds number turbulence , physica d 46 , 177200 .",
    "coleman , p. j. , 1968 , turbulence , viscosity and dissipation in the solar wind plasma , astrophys .",
    "j. , 153 , 371388 .",
    "denskat , k. u. , and neubauer , f. m. , 1983 , observations of hydromagnetic turbulence in the solar wind , solar wind v , edited by m. neugebauer , nasa conf .",
    "publ . , cp2280 , 8191 .",
    "frisch , u. , 1995 , turbulence : the legacy of a. n. kolmogorov , cambridge university press    horbury , t. a. , balogh , a. , forsyth , r. j. , smith , e. , 1996 , magnetic field signatures of unevolved turbulence in solar polar flows , j. geophys .",
    "101 , 405413 .",
    "l. klein , r. bruno , b. bavassano and h. rosenbauer , 1993 , anisotropy and minimum variance of magnetohydrodynamic fluctuations in the inner heliosphere , j. geophys .",
    "res . , 98 , 1746117466    kolmogorov , a. n. , 1941 , the local structure of turbulence in incompressible viscous fluid for very large reynolds numbers , c. r. akad .",
    "sssr 30 , 301 .",
    "kolmogorov , a. n. , 1962 , a refinement of previous hypotheses concerning the local structure of turbulence in a viscous incompressible fluid at high reynolds number , _ j. fluid mech .",
    "_ , 13 , 8285    kraichnan , r. h. , 1965 , inertial  range spectrum of hydromagnetic turbulence , phys .",
    "fluids 8 , 13851387 .",
    "marsch , e. and tu , c .- y , 1990 , on the radial evolution of mhd turbulence in the inner heliosphere , j. geophys .",
    "95 , 82118229 .",
    "marsch , e. , and liu , s. , 1993 , structure functions and intermittency of velocity fluctuations in the inner solar wind , ann .",
    "geophysicae 11 , 227238 .",
    "marsch , e. and tu , c .- y , 1994 ,",
    "non  gaussian probability distributions of solar wind fluctuations , ann .",
    "geophysicae 12 , 11271138 .",
    "matthaeus , w. h. , goldstein , m. l. , 1982 , measurements of the rugged invariants of magnetohydrodynamic turbulence in the solar wind , j. geophys .",
    "res . , 87 , 60116028    matthaeus , w. h. , goldstein , m. l. , roberts , d. a. , 1990 , evidence for the presence of quasi  two  dimensional nearly incompressible fluctuations in the solar wind , j. geophys . res . 95 , 2067320683 .",
    "mccracken , k.g .",
    ", and n.f .",
    "ness , 1966 , the collimation of cosmic rays by the interplanetary magnetic field , j. geophys .",
    "71 , 33153332 .",
    "meneveau , c. , and sreenivasan , k. r. , 1987 , simple multifractal cascade model for fully developed turbulence , phys .",
    "59 , 14241427 .",
    "obukhov , 1962 , some specific features of atmospheric turbulence ,",
    "_ j. fluid mech .",
    "_ , 13 , 7781    padhye , n.  s. , smith , c.  w. and matthaeus , w.  h.,2001 , distribution of magnetic field components in the solar wind plasma , j. geophys .",
    "9106 , 18635 - 18650 .",
    "parisi , g. and , u. frisch , 1985 , on the singularity structure of fully developed turbulence , in _ turbulence and predictability in geophysical fluid dynamics , proceed .",
    "school of physics e . fermi , 1983 , varenna , italy _ , 8487 , eds .",
    "m. ghil , r. benzi and g. parisi , north  holland , amsterdam    primavera , l. , f. malara , and p. veltri , 2002 , parametric instability in the solar wind : numerical study of the nonlinear evolution , paper presented at solar wind 10 conference , 1721 june 2002 , pisa , italy    roberts , d.a . ,",
    "m. goldstein , l. klein , and w. matthaeus , 1987 , origin and evolution of fluctuations in the solar wind : helios observations and helios - voyager comparisons , j. geophys .",
    ", 92 , 1202312035 .",
    "roberts , d. a. , m. l. , goldstein , w. h. matthaeus and s. gosh , 1991 , mhd simulation of the radial evolution and stream structure of solar wind turbulence , phys .",
    "lett . , 67 , 37413765 .    roberts , d. a.,1992 , observation and simulation of the radial evolution and stream structure of solar wind turbulence , in e. marsch and r. schwenn ( eds ) , solar wind seven , cospar colloquia series vol .",
    "3 , pergamon press , oxford , 533538    ruzmaikin , a. , feynman , j. , goldstein , b. , and balogh , a. , 1995 , intermittent turbulence in solar wind from the south polar hole , j. geophys .",
    "100 , 33953404 .",
    "sorriso  valvo , l. , carbone , v. , veltri , p. , consolini , g. , bruno , r. , 1999 , intermittency in the solar wind turbulence through probability distribution functions of fluctuations , geophys .",
    "26 , 18011804 .",
    "tu , c. -y . ,",
    "pu , z .- y , and wei , f .- s , 1984 ,",
    "the power spectrum of interplanetary alfvnic fluctuations : derivation of its governing equation and its solution , j. geophys .",
    "89 , 96959702 .",
    "tu , c. -y .",
    ", 1988 , the damping of interplanetary alfvnic fluctuations and the heating of the solar wind , j. geophys .",
    "93 , 720 .",
    "tu , c .- y and marsch , e. , 1990 , evidence for a `` background '' spectrum of the solar wind turbulence in the inner heliosphere , j. geophys .",
    "95 , 43374341 .",
    "tu , c .- y and marsch , e. , and thime , k. m. , 1989 basic properties of solar wind mhd turbulence analysed by means of elssser variables , j. geophys .",
    "95 , 1173911759 .",
    "tu , c .- y and marsch , e. , 1993 , a model of solar wind fluctuations with two components : alfvn waves and convective structures , j. geophys .",
    "98 , 12571276 .",
    "tu , c .- y and marsch , e. , 1995 , mhd structures , waves and turbulence in the solar wind : observations and theories , space sci .",
    ", 73 , 1210    tu , c .-",
    "y , marsch , e. , rosenbauer , h. , 1996 , an extended structure function model and its aplication to the analysis of solar wind intermittency properties , ann .",
    "14 , 270285 .",
    "veltri , p. , and mangeney , a. , 1999 , in solar wind ix , edited by s. habbal , aip conf .",
    ", 543546 .",
    ".from left to right : time interval in dd : hh , heliocentric distance in au , average wind velocity in km / s , angle between field and velocity vectors , angle between field vector and radial distance and , finally , angle between velocity vector and radial distance . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyzed intermittency in the solar wind , as observed on the ecliptic plane , looking at magnetic field and velocity fluctuations between 0.3 and 1 au , for both fast and slow wind and for compressive and directional fluctuations . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis focused on the property that probability distribution functions of a fluctuating field affected by intermittency become more and more peaked at smaller and smaller scales . </S>",
    "<S> since the peakedness of a distribution is measured by its flatness factor we studied the behavior of this parameter for different scales to estimate the degree of intermittency of our time series . </S>",
    "<S> we confirmed that both magnetic field and velocity fluctuations are rather intermittent and that compressive magnetic fluctuations are generally more intermittent than the corresponding velocity fluctuations . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we observed that compressive fluctuations are always more intermittent than directional fluctuations and that while slow wind intermittency does not depend on the radial distance from the sun , fast wind intermittency of both magnetic field and velocity fluctuations clearly increases with the heliocentric distance .    </S>",
    "<S> we propose that the observed radial dependence can be understood if we imagine interplanetary fluctuations made of two main components : one represented by coherent , non propagating structures convected by the wind and , the other one made of propagating , stochastic fluctuations , namely alfvn waves . while the first component tends to increase the intermittency level because of its coherent nature , the second one tends to decrease it because of its stochastic nature . as the wind expands , the alfvnic contribution is depleted because of turbulent evolution and , consequently , the underlying coherent structures convected by the wind , strengthen further on by stream  stream dynamical interaction , assume a more important role increasing intermittency , as observed . obviously , slow wind does nt show a similar behavior because alfvnic fluctuations have a less dominant role than within fast wind and the alfvnicity of the wind has already been frozen by the time we observe it at 0.3 au . </S>",
    "<S> finally , our analysis suggests that the most intermittent magnetic fluctuations are distributed along the local interplanetary magnetic field spiral direction while , those relative to wind velocity seem to be located along the radial direction .    </S>"
  ]
}