{
  "article_text": [
    "asas - all sky automated survey , is a long term project dedicated to detection and monitoring variability of bright stars .",
    "this paper presents the results of several years of observations done at the las campanas observatory with a single instrument : a telescope with the aperture of 7 cm , the focal length of 20 cm , done through a standard v - band filter and a @xmath3 ccd camera with @xmath4 pixels from apogee ( pojmaski 1997 , 1998 , 2000 , 2002 , 2003 , pojmaski and maciejewski 2004 , 2005 , pojmaski , pilecki and szczygiel 2005 ) .",
    "more information about asas is provided on the www :    http://www.astrouw.edu.pl/~gp/asas/asas.html    http://archive.princeton.edu/~asas/        the variable stars were discovered quasi - uniformly for declination @xmath5 , covering almost 3/4 of the full sky .",
    "1 shows the distribution of asas variables in the sky in the galactic coordinates .",
    "the milky way is clearly visible , together with the dust lanes .",
    "the distribution of asas stars as a function of v - mag is shown on fig . 2 for all stars ( 17,000,000 ) , all variable stars ( 50,122 ) , and all eclipsing binaries , the latter divided into eclipsing contact binaries ( ec , 5,384 ) , eclipsing semi detached binaries ( esd , 2,957 ) , and eclipsing detached binaries ( ed , 2758 ) .",
    "the statistics for stars with @xmath6 mag appears to be approximately complete , but the efficiency falls rapidly within the range of @xmath7 mag as the detection limit is approached .",
    "also , the statistics deteriorates for @xmath8 because of saturation effects .     because the detection limit is approached , and for @xmath9 because of saturation effects . ]",
    "all stars were observed for about 5 years , with a small subset for 8 years .",
    "typical number of photometric measurements was several hundred .",
    "the distribution of this number is shown in fig .",
    "3 . the total number of photometric measurements was 2,916,000 .",
    "as asas continues its operation the number of measurements will increase , approximately 100 v - band photometric measurements per year per variable .",
    "we intend to continue the project indefinitely , with some upgrades .",
    "while only v - band results are reported here , the i - band photometry was accumulated , and several years of data are already stored on a raid-5 disk system . however , it will take another year to process i - band data , well over a tera - byte .",
    "there are more stars detectable in the i - band , so we expect that the number of variables will more than double .",
    "we are also planning an expansion of asas to the northern hemisphere , to fully cover the whole sky .",
    "the results presented in this paper are not final in any sense",
    ". please note , that all data are public domain .",
    "a different classification of binaries can be readily done by whoever feels like verifying and/or correcting our presentation .",
    "this is an observational paper , but section 2 gives a short introduction to the main ideas about the structure and evolution of contact binaries .",
    "section 3 gives the information about asas data , the classification scheme , and some examples of a diversity of light curves .",
    "section 4 provides simple statistics of asas binaries .",
    "finally , in section 5 we make a somewhat speculative discussion based on this observational paper .",
    "contact binaries , also known as w uma stars , are in a physical contact , with continuously changing brightness because of large tidal distortion of the two components .",
    "the first theoretical milestone in the understanding of contact binaries was due to lucy ( 1968a , b ) , who proposed that the two components share common envelope with the same entropy , thereby making the effective temperature almost constant over the surface of the two stars .",
    "as contact binaries have the mass ratio distinctly different from one , most nuclear energy is generated in the more massive component and it is redistributed around the whole surface through a moderately thick convective envelope .    the second theoretical milestone was the recognition of the consequences of the fact that the mass - radius relation for zero age main sequence ( zams ) stars is much steeper than for the two roche lobes .",
    "there can be no stable equilibrium between the two stars with a common envelope .",
    "the system evolves through a sequence of relaxation oscillations , with the mass flowing from star a to b , next from b to a , etc .",
    "( flannery 1976 , lucy 1976 , robertson and eggleton 1977 ) .",
    "the cycle repeats on a thermal ( kelvin - helmholtz ) time scale . according to thermal relaxation model the binary oscillates between thermal contact , with",
    "the two eclipses of almost equal depth , and a semidetached phase in which one eclipse is much deeper than another .",
    "hazlehurst ( 1970 ) suggested that nuclear evolution of the primary component of a contact binary affects its structure .",
    "stepie ( 2003 , 2005 ) suggested that the currently more massive primary was originally the less massive of the two .",
    "the nuclear burning formed a small helium core , the star expanded and transferred mass to the original secondary . in analogy with algol systems",
    "the currently more massive component is the less evolved , while the present secondary has a small helium core , and it is more advanced in its nuclear evolution .",
    "it is interesting that there is a controversy about thermal relaxation oscillations in w uma systems .",
    "some authors claim there are no such oscillations ( webbink 2003 ) , while others claim that such oscillations exist ( quin 2003 , yakut and eggleton 2005 , and references therein ) .",
    "asas statistics resolves this controversy on purely observational grounds .",
    "close binaries with a deep common envelope are in thermal contact and they have eclipses of almost equal depth",
    ". if the contact is shallow , or if there is no physical contact , then the effective temperatures of the two stars are different , and the two eclipses have different depth .",
    "theoretical models of relaxation oscillations indicate that the radii of the two components change relatively little throughout the cycle ( flannery 1976 , lucy 1976 , robertson and eggleton 1977 , yakut and eggleton 2005 , and references therein ) . with the geometry of the two stars almost unchanged , tidal distortions due to geometry",
    "remain almost the same , and the most profound difference in the light curve is the relative depth of the two eclipses .    .",
    "the three symbols refer to contact ( ec ) , semidetached ( esd ) , and detached ( ed ) binaries , following pojmaski ( 2002 ) .",
    "note : when the amplitude of variability is very small the classification is very uncertain , as in the upper right hand corner . ]    for the purpose of this paper the classification of eclipsing binaries was done by decomposing their light curves into fourier coefficients : @xmath10 , following ruciski ( 1997a , b , 1998 , 2002 ) and pojmaski ( 2002 ) .",
    "the classification is shown in fig . 4 in the @xmath11 plane , with the ec , esd , and ed binaries shown with different symbols : esd stars have smaller marks than ec and ed .",
    "some examples of bright binaries of ec , esd , and ed type are shown in fig .",
    "the parameters of these 15 binaries are listed in table 1 .",
    "the type of an eclipsing binary , ec , esd , or ed , is indicated at the upper right corner of the light curve .",
    "the complete version of table 1 , for all eclipsing binaries used in this paper , and with all eight fourier parameters , is in the file fourier.e on the web page :    http://www.astrouw.edu.pl/~gp/asas/asas_paper_data.html    http://archive.princeton.edu/~asas/asas_paper_data.html    where all the data on which this paper is based are available electronically .",
    "these include all photomertic measurements in compressed files : ec.tgz ( 49 mb ) , esd.tgz ( 27 mb ) , ed.tgz ( 27 mb ) .",
    "ccc & & + & & + & & + & & + & & +    some investigators ( e.g. p. eggleton ) strongly prefer classification of close binaries into ew , eb , and ea types , on the grounds that photometry alone can not provide unique geometry . our classification into ec , esd , and ed types",
    "should be considered preliminary , as we have only single band photometry and no spectroscopic information for thousands of our binaries .",
    ".the most important fourier parameters for light curves from fig .",
    "5 are listed along with orbital periods .",
    "each row is separated with a horizontal line .",
    "the @xmath12 parameter can be easily translated to the amplitude , @xmath13 and @xmath14 determine the difference between the two eclipses , and @xmath15 is related to the difference between the two maxima .",
    "full table 1 is given electronically as file fourier.e on our web page .",
    "[ tabelka ] [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     a subset of all asas results related to binary stars was ` frozen ' for the epoch of this paper .",
    "asas is an on - going project , with more data added every clear night .",
    "therefore , as time goes on , the volume of data related to eclipsing binaries will increase , and the quality will improve . to make the results presented in this paper reproducible we decided to provide ` frozen ' data .",
    "note : all light curves presented in fig .",
    "5 are for bright variables discovered with asas survey .",
    "they were not known before . just as expected , the majority of asas variables are new discoveries ( paczyski 1997 ) .",
    "all the statistics of this section is based on data provided in the file vars.e , which can be found on our web page .",
    "table 2 is a sample of this file . in particular , the classification of asas binaries is given there .",
    "the galactic distribution of asas eclipsing binaries shows a significant difference , with detached binaries most strongly concentrated to the galactic plane , while the short period contact binaries have almost isotropic distribution .",
    "it is well known that there is a period - luminosity relation for w uma stars ( rucinski 1996 , klagyivik and csizmadia 2004 ) , and the galactic distribution of those stars is not surprising .",
    "the strong concentration of detached binaries to the galactic plane implies these are even more luminous and massive , on average .    the binary period distribution is shown in fig .",
    "6 for stars with the galactic latitude @xmath16 to reduce the luminosity bias .",
    "the distribution of contact systems ( ec ) peaks near 0.37 days , it has a sharp cut - off at 0.2 days , and a long tail extending beyond 1 day .",
    "in fact the tail extends to more than one hundred days , as it is apparent in fig .",
    "8 and fig . 10 . also shown is the distribution of orbital periods of semi - detached ( esd ) and detached ( ed ) binaries .     is plotted .",
    "the distribution peaks near 0.37 days , it has a sharp cut - off at 0.2 days , and a tail extending far beyond 1 day . also shown is the distribution of orbital periods of semi - detached ( esd ) and detached ( ed ) binaries .",
    "contact binaries outnumber other binaries for binary periods shorter than 1 day . ]",
    "the important topic ot this paper is the presentation of eclipse depth of ec binaries , as this is directly related to the issue of relaxation oscillations . for contact binaries the depth of both eclipses is directly related to the fourier coefficients of the light curve .",
    "the following analytical formulae approximate these relations with better then @xmath17 accuracy for the majority of stars : @xmath18 } , \\eqno(1)\\ ] ] @xmath19 } , \\eqno(2)\\ ] ] where @xmath20 and @xmath21 correspond to the depth of the primary and secondary minimum , respectively .",
    "three examples are presented in fig .",
    "c +   +   +     is the fraction of light obscured in the primary eclipse . ]",
    "the distribution of primary eclipse depth with binary period is shown in fig .",
    "a histogram of primary eclipse depth integrated over binary period is shown in fig .",
    "note that while the vast majority of w uma binaries have periods in the range @xmath22 days , there are contact binaries with periods over 100 days , as it is apparent in fig . 5 and fig",
    ". 8 .",
    "the eclipse depth ratio is shown in fig .",
    "10 for ec binaries , and in fig . 11 for ec and esd binaries .",
    "these are important figures .",
    "they demonstrate that some ec binaries are in good thermal contact , as the depth of secondary eclipse is almost the same as the primary .",
    "but many other ec binaries have the two eclipses which are very unequal , implying that they are not in thermal contact , yet their geometry is close to that expected for a contact system",
    ". finally , there are esd binaries , in which the geometry is very different , and of course the two eclipses have usually different depth .",
    "qualitatively , this is just what was expected in the models with relaxation oscillations ( cf .",
    "lucy 1976 , flannery 1976 , robertson and eggleton 1977 , yakut and eggleton 2005 ) .",
    "there is no shortage of stars without thermal contact .",
    "combining asas data with models of relaxation oscillations should provide quantitative verification of the theory , but this task is beyond the scope of our paper .",
    "the same feature is also apparent in fig .",
    "10 at @xmath23 . ]",
    "contact binaries often have maxima of different height , with the maximum following the primary ( i.e. deeper ) eclipse being either higher or lower than the maximum following the secondary eclipse .",
    "the distribution of the difference is shown in fig . 12 .",
    "the positive value of the @xmath24 parameter indicates that the maximum following the primary eclipse is brighter of the two . the asymmetry in distribution , i.e. the excess of positive values of @xmath25 ,",
    "is known as the oconnell ( 1951 ) effect ( cf . also ruciski 1997b ) : the maximum following the primary eclipse is on average brighter , presumably due to stream of gas flowing between the two stars .",
    "an extreme case of this phenomenon is shown in v361 lyr ( kaluzny 1991 ) .",
    "our conclusion , based on the distribution of eclipse depths ( fig .",
    "10 , 11 ) , is that relaxation oscillations , first proposed by lucy and flannery , are real .",
    "there is no shortage of binaries corresponding to no thermal contact , with a very different depth of the two eclipses .",
    "model calculations of the type recently done by yakut and eggleton ( 2005 ) , when combined with asas data , should allow a quantitative verification of the theory .",
    "a very large number of contact or near contact systems reveal features never noticed before : the distribution of eclipse depth ratios as shown in fig .",
    "10 and fig .",
    "11 has a distinct break around @xmath26 and @xmath27 .",
    "we do not speculate on the origin of this feature , but we bring this break to the attention of our readers .",
    "this break is best seen in systems with the most robust classification .    the most surprising result of this paper is presented in fig .",
    "a traditional view for the origin of w uma contact binaries is to assume that they come from detached binaries of comparable periods . for the first time we have",
    "approximately complete statistics of binaries of all types with orbital periods shorter than one day , and there are very few detached binaries .",
    "obviously , they are more difficult to find than either contact or semi - detached systems . as times goes on the statistics of asas detached binaries will improve , and a statistical analysis will tell us if there is a problem with the origin of w uma stars . at this time",
    "the contact systems seem to appear `` out of nowhere '' .    in about a year",
    "we shall have i - band data for our eclipsing binaries .",
    "this will make it possible to be more quantitative about the distribution properties , including the distribution in our galaxy .",
    "also , it will be much easier to quantify the impression about a shortage of detached binaries and the space density of systems of different types : ec , esd , and ed . at this time it is premature for us to speculate about the outcome of binary statistics while we wait for the i - band data .    while this is an observational paper , written to promote the usefulness of the asas catalog of variable stars , we are tempted to speculate about possible interpretation of fig .",
    "6 , which was so surprising to us . we are not consistent with the previous paragraph , but the temptation is hard to resist .",
    "the following is a speculative hypothesis .",
    "there has been a gradual emergence of the notion that contact systems have companions ( ruciski and kaluzny 1982 , chambliss 1992 , hendry and mochnacki 1998 , also tokovinin 2004 ) . recently .",
    "pribulla and ruciski ( 2005 ) found that up to 50% of w uma binaries have companions .",
    "this opens up a possibility that kozai ( 1962 ) cycle operates in some such triples , as suggested by kiseleva , eggleton , and mikkola ( 1998 ) , and by eggleton and kiseleva - eggleton ( 2001 ) .",
    "the mechanical three - body orbital evolution , with a large range of inclinations of the two orbits , inner and outer , may induce large variations in the eccentricity of the inner binary . in time",
    "the eccentricity may become large enough to make a contact system out of the inner binary .    in this scenario",
    "the inner binary has the initial period that is relatively long , and in most cases no eclipses would be detectable . during a kozai cycle the inner binary occasionally has a chance to reach a physical contact : it may either merge forming a single star , or it may become a w uma star .",
    "this process is somewhat similar to the model of formation of close binaries in globular clusters ( pooley et al .",
    "2003 , and references therein ) .",
    "the surprisingly small number of short period detached eclipsing binaries as seen in fig . 6 may indicate that the kozai cycle is not just a curiosity , but it may be an important channel for forming w uma stars",
    ". this possibility can not be rejected without careful analysis . after all",
    "w uma stars are rare , with the local space density of just 0.2% of the main sequence stars ( rucinski 2002 , and references therein ) .",
    "we are very grateful to p. p. eggleton , d. fabrycky , s. ruciski and k. stepie for many helpful discussions ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> asas is a long term project to monitor bright variable stars over the whole sky . </S>",
    "<S> it has discovered 50,122 variables brighter than @xmath0 mag south of declination @xmath1 , and among them 11,099 eclipsing binaries . </S>",
    "<S> we present a preliminary analysis of 5,384 contact , 2,957 semi - detached , and 2,758 detached systems . </S>",
    "<S> the statistics of the distribution provides a qualitative confirmation of decades old idea of flannery and lucy that w uma type binaries evolve through a series of relaxation oscillations : asas finds comparable number of contact and semidetached systems .    </S>",
    "<S> the most surprising result is a very small number of detached eclipsing binaries with periods @xmath2 day , the systems believed to be the progenitors of w uma stars . </S>",
    "<S> as many ( perhaps all ) contact binaries have companions , there is a possibility that some were formed in a kozai cycle , as suggested by eggleton and his associates .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : eclipsing  stars : binary  stars : evolution </S>"
  ]
}