{
  "article_text": [
    "thermal radiation from the surface of isolated neutron stars ( nss ) can provide invaluable information on the physical properties and evolution of nss .",
    "such radiation has been detected in various types of isolated nss : from radio pulsars ( see becker  2000 ; pavlov et al .",
    "2002 ) to old and young radio - quiet nss ( see treves et al .  2000 ; pavlov et al .",
    "2002 ) to soft gamma - ray repeaters ( sgrs ) and anomalous x - ray pulsars ( axps ) ( see hurley  2000 ; israel , mereghetti , & stella  2001 ; mereghetti et al .",
    "2002 ) , which form a potentially new class of nss ( `` magnetars '' ) endowed with superstrong ( @xmath4  g ) magnetic fields ( see thompson & duncan  1996 ; thompson  2001 ) .",
    "the ns surface emission is mediated by the thin atmospheric layer ( with scale height @xmath5  cm and density @xmath6  g/@xmath7 ) that covers the stellar surface . therefore , to properly interpret the observations of ns surface emission and to provide accurate constraints on the physical properties of nss ,",
    "it is important to understand in detail the radiative properties of ns atmospheres in the presence of strong magnetic fields .",
    "steady progress has been made over the years in modeling ns atmospheres ( see pavlov et al .  1995 ; ho & lai  2001 , 2003 ; zavlin & pavlov  2002 for more detailed references on observations and on previous works of ns atmosphere modeling ) .",
    "these atmosphere models have played a valuable role in assessing the observed spectra of radio pulsars and radio - quiet nss .",
    "we have studied the h and he atmospheres of nss with magnetic fields @xmath8  g and effective temperatures @xmath9  k ( ho & lai  2001 , 2003 ; ho et al .",
    "2002 ) . here",
    "we briefly discuss our atmosphere model and the effects of vacuum polarization and report on recent work in incorporating hydrogen bound species in the models to produce partially ionized atmospheres .",
    "we consider an isolated ns with a plane - parallel atmosphere .",
    "this is justified since the atmospheric scale height @xmath10  cm is much less than the ns radius @xmath11  km .",
    "the atmosphere is composed of pure hydrogen .",
    "a uniform magnetic field @xmath12 , aligned perpendicular to the surface , permeates the atmosphere , and the spectra presented indicate emission from a local patch of the ns surface with the indicated magnetic field strength and effective temperature .    in the highly magnetized plasma that characterizes ns atmospheres",
    ", there are two photon polarization modes , and they have very different radiative opacities .",
    "the two photon modes are the extraordinary mode ( x - mode ) , which is mostly polarized perpendicular to the @xmath13 plane , and the ordinary mode ( o - mode ) , which is mostly polarized parallel to the @xmath13 plane , where @xmath14 specifies the direction of photon propagation and @xmath15 is the direction of the external magnetic field .",
    "the o - mode has a significant component of its electric field @xmath16 along @xmath15 for most directions of propagation , except when @xmath14 is nearly parallel to @xmath15 , and therefore the o - mode opacity is close to the @xmath17 value , while the x - mode opacity is much smaller .    to construct self - consistent atmosphere models requires successive iterations , where the temperature profile @xmath18 is adjusted from the previous iteration in order to satisfy radiative equilibrium ( @xmath19 is the thomson depth within the atmosphere ) .",
    "we solve the radiative transfer equations ( rtes ) for the two coupled photon polarization modes , together with the boundary conditions , by the finite difference scheme described in mihalas  ( 1978 ) .",
    "we use a variation of the unsld - lucy temperature correction method as described in mihalas  ( 1978 ) but modified to account for full radiative transfer by two propagation modes in a magnetic medium .",
    "the process of determining the radiation intensity from the rte for a given temperature profile , estimating and applying the temperature correction , and then recalculating the radiation intensity is repeated until convergence of the solution is achieved ( see ho & lai  2001 for details of our numerical method ) .",
    "it is well - known that polarization of the vacuum due to virtual @xmath20 pairs becomes significant when @xmath21 , where @xmath22  g. vacuum polarization modifies the dielectric property of the medium and the polarization of photon modes , thereby altering the radiative scattering and absorption opacities ( see ho & lai  2003 and references therein ) .",
    "of particular interest is the `` vacuum resonance '' phenomenon , which occurs when the effects of the vacuum and plasma on the linear polarization of the modes cancel each other , giving rise to a resonance feature in the opacity at photon energy @xmath23  kev , where @xmath24 and @xmath25 are the atomic charge and mass of the ion , respectively , @xmath26 is the density , and @xmath27 is a slowly - varying function of @xmath28 of order unity .",
    "it was shown in lai & ho ( 2002 , 2003 ) ( see also gnedin et al .",
    "1978 ; pavlov & gnedin  1984 ) that high energy photons propagating in the atmospheric plasma can adiabatically convert from one polarization mode into another at the vacuum resonance density @xmath29 . across the resonance ,",
    "the orientation of the polarization ellipse rotates by @xmath30 , although the helicity does not change ( see figure  1 ) .",
    "this resonant mode conversion is analogous to the mikheyev - smirnov - wolfenstein ( msw ) effect for neutrino oscillations .",
    "because the two photon modes have vastly different opacities , this vacuum - induced mode conversion can significantly affect radiative transfer in strongly magnetized atmospheres .",
    "figure  2 illustrates the main effect that vacuum polarization has on the atmosphere spectrum .",
    "the left side of figure  2 shows the decoupling densities of the o - mode and x - mode photons ( i.e. , the densities of their respective photospheres ) when the vacuum polarization effect is neglected .",
    "the right side of figure  2 shows that the effective decoupling depths of the photons are changed when the vacuum resonance lies between these two photospheres .",
    "we see from figure  2 that mode conversion makes the effective decoupling density of x - mode photons ( which carry the bulk of the thermal energy ) smaller , thereby depleting the high energy tail of the spectrum and making the spectrum closer to blackbody ( although the spectrum is still harder than blackbody because of non - grey opacities ) . this expectation is borne out in self - consistent atmosphere modeling presented in ho & lai  2003 and illustrated in figure  3 for the case of @xmath31  g and @xmath32  k.",
    "another important effect of vacuum polarization on the spectrum , first noted in ho & lai  2003 and illustrated in figure  3 , is the suppression of proton cyclotron lines ( and other spectral lines ; see below ) . the physical origin for such line suppression",
    "is related to the depletion of continuum flux ; this depletion makes the decoupling depths inside and outside the line similar .",
    "1 . a schematic diagram illustrating mode conversion due to vacuum polarization : as an x - mode ( o - mode ) photon at high density traverses the vacuum resonance density @xmath33 , it becomes an o - mode ( x - mode ) photon at low density if the adiabatic condition is satisfied . in this evolution ,",
    "the polarization ellipse rotates @xmath30 , and the photon opacity changes significantly .",
    "2 . a schematic diagram illustrating how vacuum polarization - induced mode conversion affects radiative transfer in a magnetar atmosphere .",
    "when the vacuum polarization effect is turned off , the x - mode photosphere ( where optical depth @xmath34 ) lies deeper than the o - mode . with the vacuum polarization effect included , the x - mode effectively decouples ( emerges ) from the atmosphere at the vacuum resonance , which lies at a lower density than the ( original ) x - mode photosphere .",
    "a major complication when incorporating bound species in the atmosphere models arises from the strong coupling between the center - of - mass motion of the atom and the internal atomic structure .",
    "potekhin & chabrier  ( 2003 ) have constructed the first thermodynamically consistent equation of state and opacity models of partially ionized hydrogen plasmas in strong magnetic fields . from the work of potekhin & chabrier  ( 2003 ) ,",
    "we obtain tables for the equation of state and absorption opacities of hydrogen , including the bound states .",
    "we interpolate between the table values to obtain densities and absorption opacities corresponding to the numerical grid of our models .",
    "thus we are able to obtain partially ionized hydrogen atmosphere models ( ho et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "figure  4 shows the spectra of hydrogen atmospheres with @xmath35  g and @xmath36  k , along with the non - magnetic hydrogen atmosphere model at the same @xmath37 and the blackbody spectrum with @xmath38  k. the proton cyclotron line at 6.3  ev is clear in both the fully ionized and partially ionized spectra .",
    "it is clear from figure  4 that spectral features due to bound species at this field strength lie within the extreme uv ( @xmath39  ev ) to very soft x - ray ( @xmath40  kev ) regime and therefore are likely to be unobservable due to interstellar absorption .",
    "however , the effect of bound species on the temperature profile of the atmosphere and the continuum flux is significant .",
    "in particular , the optical flux is higher for the partially ionized atmospheres compared to the fully ionized atmospheres for the same @xmath37 . on the other hand , the partially and fully ionized models both yield very similar ( neglecting the spectral features ) x - ray flux for a given effective temperature , with the partially ionized model fluxes slightly lower than those from the fully ionized models ; thus fitting only the high energy flux with fully ionized models would yield fairly accurate ns temperatures .",
    "figure  5 compares the partially and fully ionized models ( neglecting vacuum polarization ) of hydrogen atmospheres with @xmath31  g and @xmath32  k. neglecting vacuum polarization allows us to distinguish features due to neutral atoms in the atmosphere ; broad absorption features due to bound - free and bound - bound transitions at @xmath41  kev and 4  kev , respectively , are apparent ( the latter is from blending of two bound - bound transitions at 3.4  kev and 6.5  kev ) .",
    "the continuum flux between the models is not significantly different , and as noted in ho & lai  ( 2001 , 2003 ) and zane et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , the proton cyclotron line is very broad when vacuum polarization is neglected .",
    "figure  6 compares the models with vacuum polarization ( complete mode conversion ; see ho & lai  2003 ) .",
    "we see that vacuum polarization softens the high energy tail of the spectrum in the partially ionized model , like the fully ionized model .",
    "in addition , we see that vacuum polarization also suppresses spectral features due to the bound species of hydrogen .",
    "the reduced width of the proton cyclotron line and spectral features associated with bound transitions makes these features difficult to observe with current x - ray detectors , and we suggest that the absence of lines in the observed spectra of several axps ( patel et al .  2001 ; juett et al .  2002 ; tiengo et al .",
    "2002 ) may be an indication of the vacuum polarization effect at work in these systems .",
    "3 . spectra of fully ionized hydrogen atmospheres with @xmath31  g and @xmath32  k. the solid line is for an atmosphere which includes vacuum polarization , the dashed line is for an atmosphere which neglects vacuum polarization , and the dotted line is for a blackbody with @xmath42  k.        fig .",
    "4 . spectra of hydrogen atmospheres with @xmath35  g and @xmath36  k. the solid line is for a partially ionized atmosphere , the dot - dashed line is for a fully ionized atmosphere , the dashed line is for a fully ionized non - magnetic atmosphere , and the dotted line is for a blackbody with @xmath38  k.        fig .",
    "5 . spectra of hydrogen atmospheres with @xmath31  g , @xmath32  k , and neglects vacuum polarization .",
    "the solid line is for a partially ionized atmosphere , the dashed line is for a fully ionized atmosphere , and the dotted line is for a blackbody with @xmath42  k.        fig . 6 .",
    "spectra of partially ionized hydrogen atmospheres with @xmath31  g and @xmath32  k. the solid line is for an atmosphere which includes vacuum polarization , the dashed line is for an atmosphere which neglects vacuum polarization , and the dotted line is for a blackbody with @xmath42  k.",
    "we are grateful to the cornell hewitt computer laboratory for the use of their facilities .",
    "this work is supported in part by nasa grant nag  5 - 12034 and nsf grant ast  9986740 .",
    "is also supported by a fellowship from the a.p .",
    "sloan foundation .",
    "the work of a.y.p . is supported by rfbr grant 02 - 02 - 17668    becker , w. , x - ray emission characteristics of pulsars , in _ proc .",
    "195 , highly energetic physical processes and mechanisms for emission from astrophysical plasmas _ , edited by p.c.h .",
    "martens , s. tsuruta , m.a .",
    "weber , pp.49 - 60 , astronomical society of the pacific , san francisco , 2000 .",
    "hurley , k. , 4.5@xmath430.5 soft gamma ray repeaters in review , in _ gamma - ray bursts : fifth huntsville symposium , aip conf .",
    "526 _ , edited by r.m .",
    "kippen , r.s .",
    "mallozzi , and g.j .",
    "fishman , pp.515 - 522 , american institute of physics , new york , 2000 .",
    "lai , d. , and w.c.g .",
    "ho , transfer of polarized radiation in strongly magnetized plasmas and thermal emission from magnetars : effect of vacuum polarization , submitted to _ astrophys .",
    "j. _ , 2003 ( astro - ph/0211315 ) .",
    "mereghetti , s. , l. chiarlone , g.l .",
    "israel , et al .",
    ", anomalous x - ray pulsars , in _ proc .",
    "270 we - heraeus seminar on neutron stars , pulsars , and supernova remnants _ , edited by w. becker , h. lesch , and j. trmper , pp.29 - 43 , mpi , garching , 2002 .",
    "pavlov , g.g .",
    "zavlin , and d. sanwal , thermal radiation from neutron stars : chandra results , in _ proc .",
    "270 we - heraeus seminar on neutron stars , pulsars , and supernova remnants _ , edited by w. becker , h. lesch , and j. trmper , pp.273 - 286 , mpi , garching , 2002 .",
    "thompson , c. , astrophysics of the soft gamma ray repeaters and anomalous x - ray pulsars , in _ neutron star - black hole connection _ , edited by c. kouveliotou , j. ventura , and e. van den heuvel , pp.369 - 392 , kluwer , dordrecht , 2001 .",
    "zavlin , v.e . , and g.g .",
    "pavlov , modeling neutron star atmospheres , in _ proc .",
    "270 we - heraeus seminar on neutron stars , pulsars , and supernova remnants _ , edited by w. becker , h. lesch , and j. trmper , pp.263 - 272 , mpi , garching , 2002 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we construct hydrogen atmosphere models for magnetized neutron stars in radiative equilibrium with surface fields @xmath0  g and effective temperatures @xmath1  k by solving the full radiative transfer equations for both polarization modes in the magnetized hydrogen plasma . </S>",
    "<S> the atmospheres directly determine the characteristics of thermal emission from isolated neutron stars . </S>",
    "<S> we study the effects of vacuum polarization and bound atoms on the atmosphere structure and spectra . </S>",
    "<S> for the lower magnetic field models ( @xmath2  g ) , the spectral features due to neutral atoms lie at extreme uv and very soft x - ray energies and therefore are not likely to be observed . however , the continuum flux is also different from the fully ionized case , especially at lower energies . for the higher magnetic field models </S>",
    "<S> , we find that vacuum polarization softens the high energy tail of the thermal spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> we show that this depression of continuum flux strongly suppresses not only the proton cyclotron line but also spectral features due to bound species ; therefore spectral lines or features in thermal radiation are more difficult to observe when the neutron star magnetic field is @xmath3  g. </S>"
  ]
}