{
  "article_text": [
    "palomar  5 is an extraordinarily sparse globular cluster in the outer halo of the milky way , at a distance of 23  kpc from the sun ( fig.1 ) .",
    "its peculiar properties ( e.g. , very low mass , large core , relatively flat luminosity function ) fostered the idea that this cluster might be a likely victim of disruptive galactic tides .    using deep multi - color photometry from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; york et al .",
    "2000 , gunn et al .",
    "1998 ) we found unambiguous , direct evidence for the suspected tidal disruption of pal5 ( odenkirchen et al .  2001 ; rockosi et al .  2002 ) : for the first time , two massive tails of stellar debris with well - defined s - shape geometry were detected , emanating in opposite directions from the cluster .    as the sdss is scanning more and more of the sky we have now extended our search over an area of @xmath187 deg@xmath2 .",
    "contaminating objects were removed by eliminating extended sources and by applying an optimized smooth color - magnitude - dependent weighting function .",
    "this optimized weighting enhances the density contrast between cluster and field stars by almost a factor of 20 and provides a least - squares solution for the spatial distribution of the cluster population .",
    "the resulting surface density map of pal5 stars is shown in fig .  2 .",
    "we find that the tidal tails extend over an arc of at least 10@xmath3 on the sky and form a narrow stream with a fwhm of only @xmath4 .",
    "this corresponds to a projected length of @xmath5  4  kpc in space , and a projected fwhm of 120 pc .",
    "the northern tail is visible out to 6.5@xmath3 from the cluster .",
    "the southern tail is traced over 3.5@xmath3 but probably continues beyond the border of the currently available field ( fig .  2 ) .",
    "the stellar mass in the tails adds up to 1.2 times the mass of stars in the cluster , i.e. , the tails contain more mass than what is left in the cluster .",
    "pal5 thus presents a text - book example of a tidally disrupting globular cluster .",
    "it is so far the only known stellar system besides the sagittarius dwarf galaxy that demonstrates the formation of a halo stream within the milky way .",
    "the tails have a clumpy structure ( fig .  2 ) .",
    "this implies that the mass loss has been episodic , and suggests that it was triggered by disk and/or bulge shocks .",
    "indeed pal5 passes through the galactic disks at intervals of a few 100 myr ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "in fig .  3 we present the radial profile of the stellar surface density ( i.e. , the azimuthally averaged surface density as a function of distance from the cluster center ) from the core of the cluster out to the current end points of the tails .",
    "the profile shows a characteristic break near the cluster s tidal radius at about @xmath6 . inside this radius ,",
    "the profile decreases approximately like @xmath7 . beyond this limit",
    "the profile is flatter and approximately follows an @xmath8 power law .",
    "the overall decrease thus differs from a simple @xmath9 power law that would result from a constant linear density along the tails .",
    "location and curvature of the tails are direct tracers of the cluster s galactic motion and hence provide unique information about the orbit of pal5 .",
    "the best - fit local orbit is shown as dashed line in fig .  2 .",
    "the direction of the cluster s motion is determined by its orientation with respect to the galactic center : the southern , leading tail and the northern , trailing tail indicate that pal5 is on a prograde orbit . using a standard three - component model for the galactic potential",
    "we infer that pal5 is observed close to the tails maximum distance from the galactic disk and has recently passed through apogalacticon ( implying that the tidal stream is currently relatively dense ) . in about 100 myr",
    "the cluster will cross the disk at a distance of only 7  kpc from the galactic center ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "this will produce a strong tidal shock that might lead to complete disruption .",
    "the amount by which the tails are offset from the orbit of the cluster is directly related to the velocity at which the tidal debris drifts away from the cluster .",
    "the observed mean offset ( about 75 pc in projection ) , the parameters of our model orbit , and the total amount of stellar mass seen in the tails lead to an estimate of the mean mass loss rate of about @xmath10 myr@xmath11 . assuming this rate to be more or less constant ( as suggested by numerical simulations ) we conclude that 10 gyr ago pal5 may have had a mass of about @xmath12 .",
    "this is about ten times as much as it has today , but still considerably less than the mass of an average present - day galactic globular cluster .",
    "the current data allow us to predict the tangential velocity of pal5 as a function of the parameters of the galactic potential .",
    "gaia and sim will allow us to accurately measure the velocities and proper motions of stars in the cluster and in the extended tails , fully characterizing the kinematics of the stream independent of any galactic model . in return , these kinematics impose strong constraints on the galactic potential at the location of the cluster .",
    "funding for the creation and distribution of the sdss archive has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national aeronautics and space administration , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the japanese monbukagakusho , and the max planck society .",
    "the sdss website is http://www.sdss.org/."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we detected extended , curved stellar tidal tails emanating from the sparse , disrupting halo globular cluster pal 5 , which cover @xmath0 on the sky . </S>",
    "<S> these streams allow us to infer the orbit of pal 5 and to ultimately constrain the galactic potential at its location .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}