{
  "article_text": [
    "@xcite have recently reported evidence for an intermediate - mass ( @xmath2 ) black hole ( imbh ) at the center of globular cluster m15 .",
    "if confirmed , this would be an exciting and important discovery , and may necessitate a fundamental change in our understanding of the dynamical evolution of globular clusters . to evaluate the need for such a change",
    ", we confront the observations with the most detailed cluster simulations currently available .    in the standard view @xcite ,",
    "globular clusters are born with relatively low central densities . through two - body relaxation , some of them may reach core collapse , with very high central stellar density .",
    "if the cluster contains a significant population ( @xmath3% ) of primordial binaries , the kinetic energy released by binary  binary and binary  single - star interactions eventually halts the contraction of the core and the cluster reaches a quasi - steady state @xcite that may endure for substantially longer than a hubble time . if the cluster contains few primordial binaries , the contraction of the core is halted instead at much higher density by the formation of binaries through three - body interactions . in this case , there is no steady state , and the core may exhibit gravothermal oscillations @xcite .    in this picture ,",
    "the central density of a globular cluster becomes high only after several gigayears , since it typically takes several half - mass relaxation times for core collapse to occur .",
    "this view is observationally well supported , since most galactic globular clusters do have sizeable cores @xcite .",
    "it is unlikely that an imbh could have formed as a result of m15 s core collapse , as present conditions at the cluster center are unsuitable for runaway stellar collisions to occur @xcite .",
    "alternative possibilities are that the cluster was initially very compact and that a runaway merger leading to an imbh may have occurred @xcite , or that an initial seed black hole grew slowly over a hubble time via occasional collisions with other stars @xcite , forming an imbh by the present time .    in this paper",
    "we compare the m15 observations with direct @xmath4-body simulations of star clusters in which stellar evolution and the effects of the galactic tidal field are realistically taken into account @xcite . in ",
    "2 we describe our cluster model and in  3 , we present `` observations '' of our model cluster and compare them with the actual observations of m15 .",
    "we briefly summarize and conclude in  4 .",
    "@xcite have performed simulations of star clusters with up to 131072 ( 128k ) stars , using the nbody4 code @xcite on the grape-6 computer @xcite . here",
    "we concentrate on a member of their `` family 2 .",
    "'' initial stellar masses were chosen from a @xcite mass function with lower and upper mass limits of 0.1 and 15 @xmath5 .",
    "primordial binaries were not included .",
    "the initial distribution of stars was given by a king model with dimensionless central potential @xmath6 .",
    "the model cluster was placed on a circular orbit at a distance of 8.5 kpc from the galactic center .",
    "the galactic potential was treated as a singular isothermal sphere with a constant rotation velocity of 220 km / s .",
    "stellar evolution was modeled according to @xcite .",
    "the initial half - mass radius of the cluster ( with @xmath7k stars and a mass of @xmath8 m@xmath9 ) was 7.1 pc ; the initial half - mass crossing time was 4.1 myr .",
    "core collapse occurred at @xmath10 gyr , when the remaining cluster mass was @xmath11 m@xmath9 .",
    "the calculation , to the point of complete dissolution , took about 1000 hours computing time on a 4-board , single - host grape-6 system .",
    "details of the calculation are described in @xcite .",
    "note that our 128k - body model still contains far fewer stars than m15we can not yet perform star - by - star simulations of a relatively large globular cluster .",
    "rather , we compare nondimensional quantities , such as the radial dependence of the velocity dispersion , its slope , @xmath0 etc . in the next section",
    "we present a comparison of the luminosity and velocity dispersion profiles near the centers of the two systems .    in the calculations of @xcite , collisions between stars were not taken into account , and hence massive black holes could not form .",
    "we have also performed simulations in which stellar collisions were properly included @xcite and find that , for initial conditions appropriate for globular clusters , the neglect of stellar collisions is justified .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows the `` observed '' line - of - sight velocity dispersion profile of our model cluster . in order to improve statistics , we have superimposed ten snapshots spanning a 500 myr period following core collapse .",
    "we calculated the velocity dispersion of the model cluster in two ways .",
    "first , we determined the velocity dispersion using all stars ( including compact remnants ) , averaging over three orthogonal directions . in the second method , we used only stars brighter than @xmath12 at the distance of m15 ( assumed to be 10 kpc ) , the sample actually used by @xcite . except for the innermost parts ,",
    "both profiles agree rather well with each other ; within the error bars , the model velocity dispersion profile is also very similar to that of m15 ( figure 9 of gerssen et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "figure [ fig2 ] depicts the surface number density of bright ( @xmath13 ) stars and of compact remnants .",
    "the adopted cutoff of @xmath14 is the photometric limit found in the study of the cluster center by @xcite , and is also consistent with the limit of @xmath15 in the data of @xcite . for both groups ,",
    "the inner region shows clear power - law cusps , with indices of approximately @xmath16 and @xmath17 , respectively .",
    "the surface density of bright stars is again in very good agreement with the hst wfpc2 and foc star count results @xcite .",
    "a cluster in deep collapse should have a density profile steeper than isothermal , since the velocity dispersion increases inward @xcite .",
    "one might wonder why the central density profile of bright stars shows a slope shallower than that of an isothermal sphere ( @xmath18 in projection ) .",
    "the reason is simply that the bright stars are not the most massive components in present - day globular clusters @xcite .",
    "compact remnants ( neutron stars and massive white dwarfs ) are more massive , and are the dominant population in the central region ( see figure[fig2 ] ) .",
    "their density profile ( @xmath19 in 3 dimensions ) is close to the theoretical prediction for the central profile of a core - collapsed cluster : @xmath20 ( see @xcite and references therein ) . as a consequence , proper interpretation of figure[fig1 ]",
    "must take into account the substantial radial variation of the mass to light ratio in the cluster core .    as an illustration",
    ", we compare the observed velocity dispersion profile of our model with the velocity dispersion profile inferred from the distribution of bright stars , using the jeans equation with an isotropic velocity distribution and a constant mass - to - light ratio . the numerical procedure is as described by @xcite ( section 5 ) .",
    "figure [ fig3 ] shows the result .",
    "not surprisingly , we find a large discrepancy between the inferred velocity dispersion and the observed profile , as illustrated by the lowest dashed line in figure 3 .",
    "the predicted central velocity dispersion , based on the mass contribution of the visible stars , would actually dip in the center , contrary to what is observed .",
    "most of the discrepancy is caused by the neglect of the central concentration of dark matter in the form of stellar remnants .",
    "trying to improve the fit by introducing a central point mass as a free parameter leads to a central mass of approximately 80 @xmath21 ( second dashed line from the top in figure[fig3 ] ) .",
    "@xcite have analysed the velocity distribution of the bright stars in m15 , using two different methods and averaging the results .",
    "they first assume a constant mass - to - light ratio , then adopt a more realistic radial run of mass to light , obtained from fokker - planck simulations @xcite .",
    "their first method leads to an inferred central black hole mass of @xmath22 , containing a fraction of @xmath23 of the total cluster mass .",
    "( the choice of m15 mass is taken from dull _",
    "_ ) this is similar to the fractional mass of the central point mass deduced above from figure [ fig3 ] , to which we ascribed a mass ratio of @xmath24 of our cluster mass .",
    "using the correct cluster potential ( solid line in figure[fig3 ] ) in the analysis of our simulations recovers the velocity dispersion of stars of @xmath25 without the need for a central point mass . in effect",
    ", we use the ( known ) variation in the mass - to - light ratio of the model cluster to convert from the observed @xmath13 number density to the actual potential .",
    "comparison of the central point - mass data with the error bars in the `` observed '' ( @xmath25 ) velocity dispersion in figure[fig3 ] suggests that the largest point mass that could be hidden in the data has a mass of @xmath26 .",
    "this would correspond to @xmath27 in the m15 system .",
    "in contrast , the equivalent ( second ) method employed by @xcite actually increased the inferred central mass to @xmath28 .",
    "this mass determination was subsequently shown to be erroneous @xcite .",
    "the correct treatment yielded a formal mass of @xmath29 ; however a mass of zero was excluded only at the @xmath30 level .    in their addendum ,",
    "@xcite maintain that a central black hole remains a viable interpretation of the m15 data , citing the probability that most neutron stars would have escaped the cluster on formation , in contradiction to the assumption of 100% neutron star retention made by @xcite and also in figure 3 above .",
    "most neutron stars receive substantial `` kicks '' at birth @xcite , which may eject them from their parent cluster .",
    "theoretical estimates of the retention fraction range from @xmath31 to @xmath3220% @xcite .",
    "if no neutron stars were present in the core , the slope of the luminosity profile would be expected to steepen somewhat @xcite .    to address this possibility",
    ", we have repeated our earlier simulation with the extreme alternative assumption that no neutron stars were retained .",
    "the result is plotted in figure 4 , which presents the analogous information to figure 3 for this model .",
    "the discrepancy between the `` observed '' velocity profile and the expected profile calculated from the distribution of stars with @xmath13 , assuming a constant mass - to - light ratio , still exists , since in this case massive white dwarfs have accumulated in the center and replaced the main - sequence stars .",
    "thus , changing the neutron star retention fraction does not significantly alter our conclusion .",
    "the assumption of constant @xmath0 now yields a black - hole mass of @xmath33 , half the value found in figure 3 , since massive white dwarfs and neutron stars contributed roughly equally to the central dark mass in that model .    using the same reasoning as before",
    ", we then estimate a value of @xmath34 , for the maximum mass that could be hidden in the form of a central black hole . in the case of m15",
    ", this would correspond to @xmath35 .",
    "we note , however , that the fitting procedure is relatively insensitive to the precise nature of the dark matter contained within the innermost 0.5 pc ( h. cohn and p. lugger , 2002 , private communication ) .",
    "the present data are probably consistent with dark matter in the form of a range of combinations of neutron stars , massive white dwarfs , or an intermediate - mass black hole .",
    "in this paper we compare recent observations of the central regions of m15 with recent direct @xmath4-body simulations of realistic models of star clusters . we find that the velocity dispersion and luminosity profiles obtained from the @xmath4-body simulations , after appropriate scaling , reproduce the observations without any need to invoke a central point mass .",
    "earlier fokker ",
    "planck results without a black hole @xcite are also consistent with the current observations . thus we conclude that the m15 observations can be adequately explained without recourse to a central massive black hole .",
    "although the current observations do not prove the existence of a central massive black hole , they do not disprove it either .",
    "our analysis ( figure[fig3 ] ) indicates that a moderate intermediate - mass black hole of @xmath36 solar masses is still possible .",
    "such an object is not altogether unexpected , since it might have formed early in the cluster s evolution through runaway merging @xcite . to confirm this interesting possibility , or to place more stringent limits on the mass of a possible black hole ,",
    "will require detailed evolutionary modeling of the cluster for different evolutionary scenarios .",
    "we plan to carry out such simulations in the near future .",
    "hb and jm thank toshi fukushige and yoko funato for stimulating discussions ; ph and sm acknowledge several collegial conversations with roeland van der marel , karl gebhardt , haldan cohn and phyllis lugger following submission of this paper .",
    "we also acknowledge detailed and helpful comments on the manuscript by phyllis lugger and an anonymous second referee . this work is supported in part by grant - in - aid for scientific research b ( 13440058 ) of the ministry of education , culture , sports , science and technology , japan , by grants nasa atp grants nag5 - 6964 and nag5 - 9264 , and by the royal netherlands academy of sciences ( knaw ) and the netherlands research school for astronomy ( nova )    aarseth , s. j. 1999 , , 111 , 1333 baumgardt , h. , heggie , d. , hut , p. , and makino , j. 2002 , submitted to baumgardt , h. , and makino , j. 2002 , to appear in ( astro - ph / xxxxx ) bettwieser , e. , and sugimoto , d. 1984 , , 208 , 493 cohn , h. 1980 , , 242 , 765 djorgovski , s. , and meylan , g. 1994 , , 108 , 1292 drukier , g. a. 1996 , , 280 , 498 dull , j. d. , cohn , h. n. , lugger , p. m. , murphy , b. w. , seitzer , p. o. , callanan , p. j. , rutten , r. g. m. , and charles , p. a. 1997 , , 481 , 267 dull , j. d. , cohn , h. n. , lugger , p. m. , murphy , b. w. , seitzer , p. o. , callanan , p. j. , rutten , r. g. m. , and charles , p. a. 2002 , submitted to ( astro - ph/0210588 ) ebisuzaki , t. , makino , j. , tsuru , t. g. , funato , y. , portegies zwart , s. f. , hut , p. , mcmillan , s. l. w. , matsushita , s. , matsumoto , h. , and kawabe , r. 2001 , , 562 , l19 gerssen , j. , van der marel , r. p. , gebhardt , k. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson , r. , and pryor , c. 2002 , , in press gerssen , j. , van der marel , r. p. , gebhardt , k. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson , r. , and pryor , c. 2003 , , in press goodman , j. , and hut , p. 1989",
    ", , 339 , 40 guhathakurta , p. , yanny , b. , schneider , d. p. , and bahcall , j. n. 1996 , , 111 , 267 harris , w. e. 1996 , , 112 , 1487 ( http://physun.physics.mcmaster.ca/globular.html ) hurley , j. r. , pols , o. r. , and tout , c. a. 2000 , , 315 , 543 kroupa , p. 2001",
    ", , 322 , 231 lee , h. m. 1987 , , 319 , 801 lugger , p. m. , cohn , h. n. , & grindlay , j. e. 1995 , , 439 , 191 lynden - bell , d. , & eggleton , p. p. 1980",
    ", , 191 , 483 lyne , a. g. , lorimer , d. r. 1994 , nature , 369 , 127 makino , j. 1997 , , 478 , 58 makino , j. , fukushige , t. , and namura , k. 2002 , in preparation van der marel , r. p. , gerssen , j. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson , r. c. , and gebhardt , k. 2002 , , in press meylan , g. , and heggie , d. c. 1997 , , 8 , 1 miller , m. c. , and hamilton , d. p. 2002",
    ", , 330 , 232 murphy , b. w. , & cohn , h. n. 1988 , , 232 , 835 portegies zwart , s. f. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s. l. w. , and hut , p. 1999",
    ", , 348 , 117 portegies zwart , s. f. , mcmillan , s. l. w. , hut , p. , and makino , j. 2001 , , 546 , l101 portegies zwart , s. f. , and mcmillan , s. l. w. 2002 , , 576 , 899 sosin , c. , and king , i. r. 1997 , , 113 , 1328 spitzer , l. j. 1987 , _ dynamical evolution of globular clusters_. princeton university press , princeton , new jersey .",
    "takahashi , k. and lee , h. m. 2000 , , 316 , 671"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a detailed comparison between the latest observational data on the kinematical structure of the core of m15 , obtained with the hubble stis and wfpc2 instruments , and the results of dynamical simulations carried out using the special - purpose grape-6 computer . </S>",
    "<S> the observations imply the presence of a significant amount of dark matter in the cluster core . in our dynamical simulations , neutron stars and/or massive white dwarfs </S>",
    "<S> concentrate to the center through mass segregation , resulting in a sharp increase in @xmath0 toward the center . while consistent with the presence of a central black hole , the hubble data can also be explained by this central concentration of stellar - mass compact objects . </S>",
    "<S> the latter interpretation is more conservative , since such remnants result naturally from stellar evolution , although runaway merging leading to the formation of a black hole may also occur for some range of initial conditions . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that no central massive object is required to explain the observational data , although we can not conclusively exclude such an object at the level of @xmath1 solar masses . </S>",
    "<S> our findings are unchanged when we reduce the assumed neutron - star retention fraction in our simulations from 100% to 0% . </S>"
  ]
}