{
  "article_text": [
    "photoionization ( pi ) and photorecombination ( pr ) are basic atomic processes which govern the charge state balance in any plasma .",
    "therefore , the accurate knowledge of these processes is a prerequisite for any plasma modeling and , hence , for any meaningful interpretation of many astrophysical observations . to date most pi and pr cross sections used in plasma modeling stem from theoretical calculations .",
    "their accuracy is often difficult to asses and , therefore , experimental pi and pr cross sections and rate coefficients are vitally needed as benchmarks and guidelines for the development of the theoretical methods . moreover , in the near future experiments will probably be the only reliable source for pr and pi cross sections of complex ions such as ions with an open m - shell ( schippers et al .",
    "2002a ; 2003a ) .",
    "the measurement of pr and pi cross sections of atomic ( and molecular ) ions is experimentally challenging because the ion densities which can experimentally be prepared are very low  some 10@xmath0  @xmath1 ( to be compared with @xmath2  @xmath1 for gaseous and @xmath3  @xmath1 for solid targets ) .",
    "consequently , signal rates from electron - ion and photon - ion collision experiments are comparatively weak . in order to make up for the low ion density in such experiments",
    "an arrangement is chosen where the colliding particle beams are merged collinearly over a distance of the order of 1  m. the merged - beams arrangement ( phaneuf et al .",
    "1999 ) provides a relatively large interaction volume , and the directionality of the ion beam facilitates the effective collection of the pi or pr reaction products , i.e. , of ions which have changed their charge state due to either ionization or recombination . for the measurement of _ absolute _ pr and pi cross sections",
    "the merged - beams method was implemented at heavy - ion storage rings ( mller & wolf 1997 ; mller & schippers 2001 ) and at synchrotron - light sources ( west 2001 ; covington et al .",
    "2002 ) , respectively .",
    "the basic procedure for producing plasma rate coefficients from pr measurements at storage rings was outlined by mller ( 1999 ) .",
    "recent examples are the pr rate coefficients of the lithiumlike ions civ ( schippers et al .",
    "2001 ) , ovi ( bhm et al .",
    "2003 ) and nixxvi ( schippers et al .",
    "figure 1 shows a comparison between measured and calculated civ dielectronic recombination ( dr ) rate coefficients at low electron - ion collision energies .",
    "the two experimental results , which were obtained a two different storage - rings , agree with one another to within the 15% experimental error for the absolute cross section .",
    "this exemplifies the reliability of recombination measurements at storage rings .",
    "mannervik et al .",
    "( 1998 ) also calculated the civ dr rate coefficient using relativistic many - body perturbation theory ( rmbpt , tokman et al .",
    "they pointed out that even for a light ion such as civ , a _ relativistic _",
    "treatment of the recombination process is necessary to reproduce the experimentally observed @xmath4 dr resonance structure .",
    "presently , rmbpt is only applicable to relatively simple systems and it is therefore instructive to see in how far more standard `` production '' codes are able to reproduce low - energy resonance positions and strength . for civ the breit - pauli r - matrix results of pradhan et al .",
    "( 2001 ) are only up to 20 mev off the measured resonance positions ( figure 1 ) .",
    "it should be kept in mind , however , that there are pathological systems , e.g.  mgix , where a mere 50  mev uncertainty of low - energy resonance positions can translate into a nearly one - order - of - magnitude uncertainty on the plasma rate - coefficient scale in a temperature range where the ion is expected to form in photoionized gases ( schippers et al.2004 ) .",
    "such findings strongly emphasize the need for experimental benchmarks , especially for low - temperature pr rate coefficients .",
    "photorecombination measurements responding to astrophysical data needs were carried out for l - shell iron ions at the heidelberg storage - ring tsr by savin et al .",
    "( 1997 ; 1999 ; 2002a ; 2002b ; 2003 ) who already published dr rate coefficients for the ions fexviii through fexxii . in a series of measurements with lithiumlike ions",
    "the influence of external electromagnetic fields on dr cross sections was thoroughly investigated by bartsch et al.(1997 ; 1999 ; 2000 ) , bhm et al .",
    "( 2001 ; 2002 ) and schippers et al .",
    "this work is also of astrophysical interest .",
    "it was recently summarized by mller & schippers ( 2003 ) .",
    "more recently experiments aiming at measuring absolute pi cross sections of atomic ions and employing merged photon - ion beams were set up at 3rd generation synchrotron light sources .",
    "measurements of astrophysical relevance were carried out e.g.  for singly charged boron ( figure 2 , schippers et al .",
    "2003b ) , carbon ( kjeldsen et al .  2001 ) , nitrogen ( kjeldsen et al .",
    "2002a ) , oxygen ( covington et al .  2001",
    "; kjeldsen et al .",
    "2002a ; aguilar et al .",
    "2003a ) , neon ( covington et al .  2002 ) , magnesium ( kjeldsen et al .",
    "2000 ; aguilar et al .",
    "2003b ) and iron ( kjeldsen et al .",
    "2002b ) as well as for the multiply charged ions ciii ( mller et al .",
    "2002 ) , neiv ( aguilar 2003c ) , and aliii ( aguilar et al .",
    "2003b ) .",
    "finally , it should be mentioned that the possibility to relate the time - inverse processes of pi and pr via the principle of detailed balance can be exploited for consistency checks between pi and pr measurements ( mller et al .",
    "2002 ) and to obtain more comprehensive results than from only one experiment alone ( schippers et al .  2002b , 2003a ) .",
    "the experimental work summarized in this article was carried out in close collaborations with s. bhm , c. brandau , s. kieslich , w. shi , and a. mller ( gieen ) , d. w. savin ( new york ) , g. gwinner , m. schnell , d. schwalm , and a. wolf ( germany ) , h. danared , n. eklw , and r. schuch ( stockholm ) , a. aguilar , a. m. covington , e. d. emmons , m. f. gharaibeh , and r. a. phaneuf ( reno ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent experimental work on the photorecombination and the photoionization of astrophysically relevant atomic ions employing the merged - beams technique at heavy - ion storage - rings and synchrotron - light sources , respectively , is summarized . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting _ absolute _ photoionization cross sections and recombination rate coefficients benchmark corresponding theoretical calculations and are needed for the accurate determination of ionization equilibria in astrophysical plasmas .    1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}