{
  "article_text": [
    "uxorionis stars are intermediate mass pre - main sequence objects defined by the uxor phenomenon : short ( days to weeks ) eclipse - like dimming at optical wavelengths .",
    "earlier explanations of the phenomenon invoked a large number of protocometary clouds or cometary bodies @xcite , or assumed that uxori objects are surrounded by an almost edge - on protoplanetary disc , where hydrodynamic fluctuations of the disc surface can cause dust filaments passing in front of the star @xcite . a more recent model of dullemond et al .",
    "@xcite proposes that uxori stars harbour _ self - shadowed _ discs ( the type of group ii in the classification scheme of meeus et al .",
    "2001 ) , where a puffed - up rim at the inner edge of the disc casts shadow over the whole disc .",
    "small hydrodynamical fluctuations in the puffed - up rim along the line - of - sight may cause the extinction events seen in uxors .    the fact that uxors may also exhibit long - term variability received much less attention so far in the literature .",
    "rostopchina et al .",
    "@xcite reported that brightness variations on a timescale of several years with an amplitude of 0.21.0mag can be a characteristic of the uxor class .",
    "they conclude that a possible reason of these brightness variations can be changes of large scale structures in the protoplanetary discs around these stars .",
    "it is an important test for the self - shadowed disc hypothesis ( and in general for any uxor model ) to check whether the observed long - term variations could be interpreted in the framework of the model .",
    "one possibility would be to assume that some effects in the inner rim ( e.g. weak accretion ) change the rim s height along a significant fraction of its perimeter ( rather than along the line - of - sight only ) , thus the eclipses may last longer .",
    "another hypothesis is that the disc is not completely self - shadowed but has a moderately flared outer part ( tenuous enough to ensure that the star is still visible ) , and in these outer regions dense filaments pass in front of the star . due to the larger keplerian times , these eclipses in the outer disc last significantly longer than the normal uxor events .",
    "a powerful tool to discriminate between such possibilities is looking for variability in the thermal infrared emission of the circumstellar disc .",
    "if the optical changes are due to line - of - sight effects then no infrared variability is expected , since the total irradiation of the disc by the star , and consequently the disc s total integrated infrared emission , is constant .",
    "but if a considerable re - structuring of the inner rim occurs , it could affect the illumination of the disc by the star , leading to changes in the infrared emission , too .",
    "in this paper we report on the results of an infrared monitoring programme of the ux orionis - type star svcephei .",
    "svcep is an a0-b9 star ( rostopchina et al .",
    "2000 ) with an age of @xmath1 yrs ( natta et al .",
    "its distance is estimated to be 700pc , with some uncertainty @xcite .",
    "the brightness of svcep varies on a long timescale ( @xmath24000 days ) between 10.5 and 11.5mag in the v - band , with some hints for a quasi - periodic behaviour ( rostopchina et al .",
    "the infrared monitoring programme was carried out with the _ infrared space observatory _ ( iso ) for 25 months .",
    "it is important that near - simultaneous optical data were available for the same period in the literature .    in sect .",
    "2 we summarize the iso observations and data reduction .",
    "we present a new algorithm for the evaluation of the isophot photometry , which was successfully used to reduce the relative uncertainties within the light curves . in sect .",
    "3 we present the results , then in sect .",
    "4 we model the light variations assuming a self - shadowed disc with a puffed - up inner rim and a tenuous , moderately flared outer part , using a radiative transfer code .",
    "section  5 provides a summary of the work .",
    "sv cep was observed with isophot @xcite , the photometer on - board the _ infrared space observatory _ , between 1996 and 1998 .",
    "the measurements were part of a monitoring programme dedicated to investigate the infrared variability of uxors .",
    "observations were performed at 12 wavelengths between 3.3 and 100@xmath0 m , at 13 - 19 epochs depending on the wavelength .",
    "the filters belong to three isophot subsystems : the p1 detector ( 3.315@xmath0 m ) , the p2 detector ( 20 and 25@xmath0 m ) , and the p3 detector ( 60 and 100@xmath0 m ) .",
    "observations were performed using the astronomical observing template pht03 .",
    "the source ( on ) and the background ( off ) positions were measured separately , always starting with the off position .",
    "measurements with all filters belonging to a specific detector ( p1 , p2 or p3 ) were performed first , then a calibration measurement on the on - board fine calibration source ( fcs ) was obtained using the last filter .",
    "the log of the monitoring observations is presented in tab.[tab : isoobs ] .    in addition , two 3x3 mini - rasters at 150 and 200@xmath0 m with the isophot - c200 camera ( iso_id : 56201201 ) , as well as a 212@xmath0 m spectrophotometric measurement with the isophot - s subinstrument ( iso_id : 56201203 ) were obtained on may 31 , 1997 .",
    "we processed all observations using the phot interactive analysis v10.0 ( pia ) @xcite following the standard data reduction scheme .",
    "first , non - linearity correction was performed on the integration ramps , then the two - threshold deglitching method was applied to remove cosmic particle hits . with a first order polinomial fit to each ramp",
    ", we evaluated the signal value and reached the signal per ramp data ( srd ) level . here",
    "reset interval correction was performed , dark current was subtracted and cosmic particle hits were again checked .",
    "we took the average of the signal values to reach the next data processing level , which is called signal per chopper plateau ( scp ) .",
    "since the signal in many cases did not stabilize , we averaged only the stable part of the measurement when possible .",
    "the final step was the power calibration , which could be carried out by adopting either the actual or the default responsivity value .",
    "the actual responsivity is derived from the fcs measurement , while the default one is a tabulated value , computed from data over the whole iso mission .",
    "we decided to use default responsivity for the p1 and p2 detectors , and actual responsivity for filters belonging to the p3 detector .    according to the isophot handbook ( laureijs et al .",
    "2003 ) , the typical absolute photometric accuracy of the type of off / on measurements is 40% , 15% , and 15% for the p1 , p2 , and p3 detectors , respectively , in the brightness range of svcep . due to the nearly identical instrument setup the relative photometric uncertainties within the light curve , however , may be lower than these values . in order to have an independent estimate of the relative flux uncertainties",
    ", cobe / dirbe data were analysed .",
    "we compared the temporal brightness variations of the isophot background measurements with the corresponding dirbe data extracted for the same coordinates and solar elongations ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : comp12]_a _ ) . though the dirbe measurements are presented as surface brightness values in [ mjy / sr ] and",
    "the isophot data are in flux density units of [ jy ] the ratio between the two datasets depends only on the beam size of isophot and should be constant .",
    "thus the standard deviation of this ratio around an average value can be adopted as the relative photometric error of the normalized light curve .",
    "the resulting values are 22% , 13% , and 10% for the p1 , p2 , and p3 detectors , respectively .",
    "m. the solid line is a normalized curve interpolated among dirbe measurements .",
    "filled dots are the normalized isophot measurements : _ a ) _ reduced with the standard method and _ b ) _ reduced with our new data processing scheme .",
    "the second last isophot measurement on the upper figure is too high , and falls out of the figure range.,width=302 ]    the far - infrared mini - rasters at @xmath3 and @xmath4 m were processed with pia in the standard way up to the calibrated map level ( for calibration the fcs measurements were used ) .",
    "flux extraction was performed by fitting the measured isophot point - spread function to the brightness distribution in the map .",
    "the isophot - s observation was reduced following the processing scheme described by brahm & kun  @xcite , which checks for memory effects and possible off - centre positioning of the source , subtracts an estimated background spectrum , and adopts realistic error bars .      when looking for variability , usually the highest possible photometric accuracy is needed .",
    "we developed an independent new processing scheme for the isophot photometry , which takes into account that in a monitoring programme a uniform observing strategy ( filter sequence , heating power of the fcs which determines its optical emission , etc . )",
    "is adopted at each epoch .",
    "this similarity of the observing sequences helps to handle the detector transients in a better way , and achieve a higher relative accuracy .",
    "the basic idea is the following : due to the detector transients the signals are usually not stabilized during the measurement time , but because of the identical observing strategy and illumination history , the shapes of the transient curves are self - similar on the different days . in our new data reduction method we do not attempt to determine stabilized signal level ( e.g. by extrapolating the transient curves , or by averaging its stable - looking part ) , but measure relative flux changes from one day to the other via direct comparison of the complete unstabilized transient curves .    as outlined in fig .",
    "[ fig : scalfig ] , first we compare the fcs signals , and  since they correspond to the same optical power  determine the responsivity difference between the two epochs .",
    "in practice , this comparison is done by computing a scaling factor between the  usually unstabilized  signal sequences at the srd level .",
    "this factor is applied also on the sky measurements , since they are also affected by responsivity changes .",
    "then the ratio of the corrected sky signals of the two days is computed , which should now reflect true brightness variations only . this way a relative light curve can be built up with respect to a reference epoch .",
    "absolute fluxes can be obtained by multiplying this normalized curve with the calibrated flux value of the reference day , as determined in sect.[stdproc ] .",
    "m , following the principles of our new processing scheme ( sect.[newscheme ] ) . in the first step",
    "the fcs signals are scaled together , in order to correct for responsivity differences , then the ratio of the corrected svcep signal curves is computed .",
    "the accuracy of the relative flux difference is a few percent.,width=302 ]    there were monitoring sequences , however , when the fcs heating power was not kept constant for each epoch . for such cases we propose two solutions . in _ method  a _ , which can be applied only for background measurements , we divide the sequence into as many groups as many different heating power values exist in the sequence .",
    "then we choose a reference day in each group and build up the normalized light curves of these groups separately , as described above . extracting cobe / dirbe data for the sky positions and solar elongations of the isophot background measurements , for each group the mean isophot / dirbe ratio is computed . since this ratio should be the same for all groups , we divide the normalized light curve of a group by the ratio between the mean isophot / dirbe value of the group and that of the reference group . in the final step",
    "we merge the groups to create the final light curve of the whole sequence .",
    "in _ method  b _ , which can also be applied on source measurements , we take into account that the optical power of the lamp differs between the two epochs , and scale the levels of the fcs signal curves according to this power difference .",
    "the optical powers are specified in the fcs calibration files . after this scaling the fcs transient curves can be compared as before in order to determine the responsivity difference .",
    "the only disadvantage of this method is that the shapes of fcs transient curves of different heating powers may be less similar .",
    "the new processing scheme produces separate off and on light curves , whose difference shows the temporal variability of the object . as a reference day for the final normalized light curves of svcep we chose january 24 , 1997 , when most measurements showed particular stability .",
    "we started with the rather homogeneous 100@xmath0 m sequence ( 14 epochs , see tab.[tab : isoobs ] ) , where each fcs measurement was carried out with the 100@xmath0 m filter , and not more than 3 different fcs heating powers were used .",
    "we applied _",
    "method a _ on the background measurements , including a relatively large correction on the first day ( february 10 , 1996 ) when the isophot / dirbe ratio was significantly higher than its average value ( by more than 3@xmath5 ) , thus we scaled down the isophot off signal by this ratio . since at 100@xmath0 m the on and off signal levels were comparable and the same fcs heating power was used for both source and background measurements , we decided to apply the correction factors derived for background measurements on the source measurements , too . at 60@xmath0",
    "m the observational sequence was less homogeneous , since the fcs calibration was carried out either with the 60@xmath0 m or the 100@xmath0 m filter , and different heating powers were used .",
    "thus we had to apply _ method b _ in this case , and again a noticeable correction was necessary at the first epoch . at 20 and 25@xmath0 m ( p2 detector ) , and at shorter wavelengths ( p1 detector ) we always used _ method b_.    the relative photometric uncertainties were again evaluated via comparison with dirbe background measurements ( see fig.[fig : comp12]@xmath6 for the 12@xmath0 m filter ) .",
    "the figure shows that our new data processing scheme produces significantly lower relative photometric errors compared to the standard method .",
    "the errors of the final on - off differential photometry are typically 1415% at 60 and 100@xmath0 m ; 1415% at 20 and 25@xmath0 m ; and are about 8 - 9% for the p1 filters ( the latter was computed at 12@xmath0 m and adopted for the other p1 filters , too ) .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we investigated the long - term optical - infrared variability of svcep , and tried to explain it in the context of the self - shadowed disc model proposed for uxorionis stars .",
    "a 25-month monitoring programme , performed with the infrared space observatory in the 3.3100@xmath0 m wavelength range , was carefully analysed , and the infrared light curves were correlated with the behaviour of svcep in the v - band .",
    "a remarkable correlation was found between the optical and the far - infrared light curves . in the @xmath7 m regime",
    "the amplitude of variability is lower , with a hint for a weak anti - correlation with the optical changes .",
    "no observable flux changes were recorded around 25@xmath0 m .    in order to interpret the observations , we modelled the spectral energy distribution of svcep assuming a self - shadowed disc with a puffed - up inner rim , using a 2d radiative transfer code .",
    "the simulations revealed that the main body of the svcep disc is located in the shadow of the inner rim ( confirming the expected self - shadowed geometry ) , but a moderate flaring is also present in the outer disc which makes it possible that some cold tenuous regions far above the disc midplane can be directly illuminated by the star .",
    "we found that by modifying the height of the inner rim , the wavelength - dependence of the long - term optical - infrared variations is well reproduced , except the mid - infrared domain .",
    "the origin of variation of the rim height might be temporal changes in the accretion rate , but other mechanisms which alter the pressure scale height of the rim might be necessary to invoke . in order to model the mid - infrared behaviour we tested adding an optically thin envelope to the system , but this model failed to explain the far - infrared variability .",
    "we demonstrated that infrared variability is a powerful tool to discriminate between existing models .",
    "the proposed mechanism of variable rim height may not be restricted to uxorionis stars , but might be a general characteristic of intermediate - mass young stars . however , in star with pole - on view no optical changes are expected .",
    "further infrared variability studies among herbig ae / be stars would be needed to confirm this prediction .",
    "the authors thank the referee , b. whitney for her comments .",
    "this paper was partly based on observations with iso , an esa project with instruments funded by esa member states ( especially the pi countries france , germany , the netherlands and the united kingdom ) with participation of isas and nasa .",
    "the isophot data presented were reduced using the isophot interactive analysis package pia , which is a joint development by the esa astrophysics division and the isophot consortium , lead by the max - planck - institut fr astronomie ( mpia ) .",
    "the work was partly supported by the grant otka k62304 of the hungarian scientific research fund .",
    "brahm , p. , kun , m. 2004 , baltic astr .",
    "13 , 464 bertout , c. 2000 , a&a , 363 , 984 bessel , m.s .",
    "1979 , pasp , 91 , 589 chiang , e.i . , goldreich , p. 1997 , apj 490 , 368 boehm , t. , catala , c. , balona , l. , carter , b. 2004 , a&a , 427 , 907 dullemond , c.p , dominik , c. , natta , a. 2001 , apj , 560 , 957 dullemond , c.p . , van den ancker , m.e . , acke , b. , van boekel , r. 2003 , apj , 594 , l47 dullemond , c.p . , hollenbach , d. , kamp , i. , dalessio , p. 2006 , in reipurth , b. , jewitt , d. , keil , k. , eds , proc . protostars and planets v ( in press ) gabriel , c. , acosta - pulido , j. , heinrichsen , i. , morris , h. , tai , w .- m .",
    "1997 , paspc , 125 , 108 grady , c.a . , sitko , m.l . ,",
    "russell , r.w . ,",
    "lynch , d.k .",
    ", hanner , m.s . ,",
    "perez , m.r . ,",
    "bjorkman , k.s .",
    ", de winter , d. 2000 , in protostars and planets iv .",
    "mannings , v. , boss , a. russel , s. ( tucson : univ .",
    "arizona press ) , 613 kun , m. , vink , j. , szabados , l. 2000 , mnras , 319 , 777 laureijs , r.j . ,",
    "klaas , u. , richards , p.j . , schulz , b. , brahm , p. 2003",
    ", the iso handbook , vol .",
    "v , esa sai-99 - 069/dc , version 1.2 lemke d. , klaas u. , abolins j. et al .",
    "1996 , a&a 315 , l64 meeus , g. , waters , l.b.f.m . ,",
    "bouwman , j. , van den ancker , m.e . ,",
    "waelkens , c. , malfait , k. 2001 , a&a 365 , 476 natta , a. , grinin , v.p . ,",
    "mannings , v. , ungerechts , h. 1997 , apj , 491 , 885 rostopchina , a.n . ,",
    "grinin , v.p . ,",
    "shakhovskoi , d.n . ,",
    "th , p.s .",
    ", minikulov , n.kh .",
    "2000 , astronomy reports , 44 , 365 vinkovic , d. , ivezic , z. , jurkic , t. , elitzur , m. 2006 , apj , 636 , 348"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the long - term optical - infrared variability of svcep , and explain it in the context of an existing ux ori ( uxor ) model . </S>",
    "<S> a 25-month monitoring programme was completed with the infrared space observatory in the 3.3100@xmath0 m wavelength range . following a careful data reduction , </S>",
    "<S> the infrared light curves were correlated with the variations of svcep in the v - band . </S>",
    "<S> a remarkable correlation was found between the optical and the far - infrared light curves . in the mid - infrared regime </S>",
    "<S> the amplitude of variations is lower , with a hint for a weak anti - correlation with the optical changes . in order to interpret the observations , we modelled the spectral energy distribution of svcep assuming a self - shadowed disc with a puffed - up inner rim , using a 2-dimensional radiative transfer code . </S>",
    "<S> we found that modifying the height of the inner rim , the wavelength - dependence of the long - term optical - infrared variations is well reproduced , except the mid - infrared domain . </S>",
    "<S> the origin of variation of the rim height might be fluctuation in the accretion rate in the outer disc . in order to model the mid - infrared behaviour we tested to add an optically thin envelope to the system , but this model failed to explain the far - infrared variability . </S>",
    "<S> infrared variability is a powerful tool to discriminate between models of the circumstellar environment . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed mechanism of variable rim height may not be restricted to uxor stars , but might be a general characteristic of intermediate - mass young stars .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : individual : sv cep  stars : pre - main - sequence  infrared : stars  planetary systems : protoplanetary discs . </S>"
  ]
}