{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery of hard x - ray sources located at or above the top of solar flare loops by the hxt instrument on board the yohkoh satellite has provided great insight into the processes that drive solar flares . the canonical event for this phenomenon is the flare of january 13 , 1992 , first described by masuda et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , and later analyzed by alexander & metcalf ( 1997 ) , and is commonly referred to as the `` masuda '' flare .",
    "this flare , which is clearly delineated by a soft x - ray ( thermal ) loop , shows three compact hard x - ray sources , two located at the footpoints ( fps for short ) and a third above the top of the soft x - ray loop .",
    "the first systematic study of such sources was undertaken by masuda ( 1994 ) . during the period of time between the satellite s first scientific observations ( october 1991 ) up to september 1993 ,",
    "masuda selected 11 x - ray bright limb flares observed by yohkoh that met his selection criteria ( see below ) , one of these 11 events was interrupted event and was not analyzed further . of the remaining 10 flares , 6 demonstrated a nonthermal looptop ( lt for short ) source while another demonstrated what masuda termed a `` super hot '' thermal lt source .",
    "this indicates that lt hard x - ray emission is fairly common .",
    "this view is strengthened further considering the limited dynamic range of the hxt instrument and the result we describe in this paper .",
    "thus , it is reasonable to conclude that lt sources are present in all flares .",
    "it is generally agreed that the primary energy of solar flares must come from reconnection of stressed magnetic fields , and as pointed out by masuda et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , the yohkoh lt observations lend support to theories that place the location of energy release high up in the corona .",
    "the energy released by reconnection can be used to heat the ambient plasma and/or to accelerate electrons and protons to relativistic energies .",
    "the power law hard x - ray spectra seen in many of the lt sources indicate that nonthermal processes , such as particle acceleration , are indeed occurring at or near these locations .",
    "the exact mechanism of the acceleration is a matter of considerable debate . in previous works ( see petrosian 1994 and 1996 ) we have argued that among the three proposed particle acceleration mechanisms ( electric fields , shocks , and plasma turbulence or waves ) the stochastic acceleration of ambient plasma particles by plasma waves provides the most natural means of explaining the observed spectral and spatial features of solar flares .    in two recent works ( petrosian & donaghy , 1999 and 2000 , hereafter * pd * ) we demonstrated how the power - law spectral indices and emission ratios ( obtained by masuda 1994 ) can be used to constrain the model parameters . in this paper , we expand and extend masuda s analysis for further investigation of the ubiquity and nature of the lt source , and to gain a clearer picture of the range of values of the fluxes and spectral indices of the fp and lt sources .",
    "furthermore , we investigate the temporal evolutions of the images of several new flares observed by hxt to determine the relationship between the many spatially and temporally distinct sources that occur in complex flaring events . in the next section",
    "we describe our procedure , and in  3 we present the light curves and images of most of the new events , including three events which appear to be examples of multiple loop flares . in  3 present the statistics of the relative fluxes and spectral indices of the lt and fp sources . in",
    " 5 we present a summary and our conclusions .",
    "in seeking to expand the sample of flares with looptop emission , we have searched through `` the yohkoh hxt image catalog '' ( sato et al . , 1998 ) for appropriate limb flares using masuda s two criteria :    \\1 ) heliocentric longitude @xmath0 ; this ensures maximum angular separation between lt and fp sources .",
    "\\2 ) peak count rate in the m2 band @xmath1 counts per sec per subcollimator ( cts s@xmath2 sc@xmath2 , for short ) ; this ensures that at least one image can be formed at high energies ( @xmath3 kev ) where thermal contribution is expected to be lower .    in total",
    ", we found 20 events from october 1991 through august 1998 that satisfy these conditions .",
    "of the events before september 1993 ( when masuda stopped his search ) , we found 12 such flares , including 11 events noted by masuda and one event ( that of december 18 , 1991 ) which satisfies the search criteria but was apparently overlooked by masuda . from the period after september 1993 up to august 1998 ( when the image catalog was finished ) we have an additional 8 events . in the interest of completeness",
    "we include all twenty events in this survey ( see table [ events ] ) .",
    "however , two events ( november 2 , 1992 noted but not analyzed by masuda , and may 10 , 1998 ) have their observations interrupted by spacecraft night , and we are unable to obtain any useful information from them .",
    "an interesting aside ( which we shall return to in  4 ) , is that of the 9 new events , 3 appear to be examples of interacting loop structures with multiple lt and fp sources , of the type analyzed by aschwanden et al .",
    "it is surprising that none of the 11 masuda events are in this category .",
    "it should also be noted that three of the flares observed before september 1993 show no detectable lt emission , while all of the flares since that date ( with the exception of one ambiguous source ) show lt emission .",
    "for the ten early events , masuda quotes lt and fp spectral indices for the events when those sources are detected , although he does not supply the time intervals or spatial regions over which the indices are taken .",
    "masuda obtains two spectral indices by fitting a power law to the l ( @xmath4 kev ) and m1 ( @xmath5 kev ) band fluxes , and the m1 and m2 band fluxes .",
    "we carry out spectral fitting both to a simple power law as well as a broken power law using all four channel fluxes ( including the h band with energy range @xmath6 kev ) , whenever significant fluxes in all four bands are detected .",
    "these results are summarized in tables [ 2 ] and [ 3 ] .    for two events ( january 13 , 1992 and october 4 , 1992 )",
    ", masuda performs a temporal and spatial analysis , providing light curves for emission from the lt and fp regions .",
    "he defines a box around each source , with size and center position determined from the best available image , and then obtains light curves by measuring the total flux of photons coming from within the box as a function of time .",
    "we undertake this temporal analysis for all the events in our list for which the necessary data are available .",
    "the data reduction is done with the standard yohkoh hxt software package , which uses the maximum entropy method ( mem for short ) ; in particular we use hxt_multimg , lcur_image , and hxt_boxfsp routines .",
    ".list of events from october 1991 to august 1998 that satisfy masuda s two criteria .",
    "dates , ut times , position on the solar disk , flare classifications and the peak counts in the l band ( columns 2 to 6 ) are taken from sato et al .",
    "column 7 describes the location of the lt hxt source relative to the sxt loop and some other characteristics of the images .",
    "the horizontal line divides the masuda ( pre september 1993 ) flares and our post september 1993 flares .",
    "flares identified by a * may be partially occulted by the solar limb .",
    "no sxt implies absence of sxt image of the loop .",
    "flare # 3 labeled ( new ) was missed by masuda .",
    "flare # 4 was classified by masuda as a super - hot thermal source .",
    "flare # 15 ( identified as single * ) shows presence of only one resolved source which may be the lt source of an occulted loop .",
    "c = complex multiple loop event .",
    "int.= interrupted observation , not analyzed . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,>,^ \" , ]     we first would like to note that the results from our analysis of the same events do not agree with masuda s numbers",
    ". this could be either because the hxt grid response functions have been improved since masuda did his analysis ( see sato , kosugi and makishima 1999 ) , or due to the differences in the spatial boxes or time intervals used to calculate the indices .",
    "masuda does not specify these data .",
    "however , the general characteristics of the spectra ( ranges , steepenings , etc . ) of pre and post september 1993 bursts given in the above table agree with the the characteristics of ten pre",
    "september 1993 ten spectra cited by masuda .",
    "second , we note that in contrast to the sample of table 2 , only two sources ( lt sources in 920217 and 921123 ) in table 3 show a significant flattening .",
    "the rest maintain the power law form , or in the majority of cases steepen by a significant amount ( an spectral index change of greater than 1 ) ; the spectral index changing by more than 3 in some sources .",
    "this difference between the flares from tabels 2 and 3 is due to the selection bias mentioned above and indicates that caution should be exercised in the interpretation of results from limited samples .",
    "the following figures describe the prominent features of the results from the whole sample .",
    "figure [ 3chindex ] shows the distribution of the spectral indices for fp ( solid histograms ) and lt ( dashed histograms ) sources from the simple power law fits , for events with no h band images ( left panel ) and events with h band images ( right panel ) .",
    "several features are readily apparent .",
    "first , the main difference between the two samples is absence of significant number of high spectral index ( @xmath7 ) events in the sample with h band images ( 6 vs 16 in the sample with no h band images ) and a higher average spectral index , @xmath8 vs @xmath9 .",
    "this is as expected .",
    "the hxt detects roughly equal counts in four channels from a flare with index @xmath10 .",
    "so that for @xmath11 the counts in the h band will fall below that of the m2 band by a factor of 4 .",
    "this combined with our chosen threshold of 10 cts s@xmath2 sc@xmath2for the m2 band indicate that such flares in our sample would have an h band count rate of about 2 to 3 cts s@xmath2 sc@xmath2 ( which is at one or two @xmath12 level ) and will not yield a discernible image .",
    "( a background count rate of 2 cts s@xmath2 sc@xmath2 for the h band implies a @xmath13 or 2 cts s@xmath2 sc@xmath2 . )",
    "thus , as stated above , this difference is purely due to the selection bias . in this connection",
    "we should note that spectral indices larger than 6 or 7 based on minimum @xmath14 may not be very reliable .",
    "moreover , such sources may have a significant thermal contribution or be a super - hot thermal source like the flare of 920206 .",
    "if we ignore such flares ( say those with @xmath15 ) , then the overall distribution of the combined sample , shown on the left panel of figure [ diffindex ] , is very similar to each other ( @xmath16 vs @xmath17 ) and to previous determinations of this distribution ( see mctiernan & petrosian 1991 and references cited there ; see also  5 ) .",
    "second , despite a sizable population of flares with @xmath18 3.0 to 4.0 there exists a sharp cutoff at around @xmath19 for both distributions",
    ". this must be intrinsic to the sources because there is no obvious selection bias that can produce it .    finally , for both ( and therefore the combined ) samples , the lt sources tend to have larger indices than the fp sources .",
    "this is evident in the above figures , which show a clear shift of the histogram of the lt sources relative to that of fps ( spectral index shift of about 1 ) and from following average indices : for 3 channel , 4 channel and all sources respectively we get ( @xmath20 ) , ( @xmath21 ) , and ( @xmath22 ) .",
    "another important feature of the above results is the distribution of the spectral breaks .",
    "this effect is demonstrated by the right panel of figure [ diffindex ] , where we show the distribution of @xmath23 for all 18 events .",
    "the most noticeable trend in this figure is that , although there are both positive and negative values for @xmath24 , both the fp and lt distributions are weighted toward the positive side .",
    "the median values of @xmath24 is about + 1 and + 2 for fp and lt sources , respectively .",
    "if we eliminate sources with @xmath25 , which may suffer from thermal contamination , the median values remain essentially unchanged but all sources with @xmath26 are eliminated .",
    "considering the approximate nature of these values , the data are consistent with all thermally uncontaminated sources showing steepenings , i.e. @xmath27 .",
    "higher resolution data , extended to higher energies is required to clarify this picture .    as in the case of the flux ratios ,",
    "the precision of our analysis is greatly limited by our small sample size and short spectral range coverage .",
    "nonetheless , the above distributions provide us with initial data points that can be used to demonstrate how one can set constraints on the model parameters . as evident from the theoretical results presented in figs . 3 , 5 and 9 of * pd * , spectral indices @xmath28 greater than 3",
    "imply a short escape time in comparison to the acceleration time .",
    "this is similar to what we inferred from the distribution of the flux ratios and may favor the smaller ratio of pitch angle to momentum diffusion coefficients advocated in pryadko & petrosian ( 1997 , 1998 , 1999 ) .",
    "the larger value of the spectral indices of lt sources also tells us about the acceleration process .",
    "this difference in the spectral indices of fp and lt sources is related , among other things , to the energy dependence of the pitch angle diffusion coefficient and/or the escape time . as shown by equation ( 15 ) in * pd * , @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is an index describing the energy dependence of the escape time ( see eq . [ 5 ] in * pd * ) .",
    "thus , the average value of about 1 for this difference seen in figures [ 3chindex ] and [ diffindex ] implies a value of @xmath31 .",
    "inspection of the above tables shows that the spectral difference for specific fp and lt sources associated with each other varies from 0 to 2 indicating a wide range of 0 to + 4 for @xmath30 in this simple parametrization .",
    "clearly , these numbers can not be taken too seriously but demonstrate how model parameters can be constrained using more refined data such as that expected from hessi .",
    "we have used the yohkoh hxt image catalogue ( sato et al .",
    "1988 ) to determine the frequency of occurrence of lt hard x - ray impulsive emission in solar flares , and to compare the flux and spectral characteristics of these sources with those of the commonly observed fp sources .",
    "we have used masuda s ( 1994 ) selection criteria and the yohkoh spectral and spatial analyses software packages . in a few cases",
    "we have also used the alexander & metcalf ( 1997 )  pixon \" method of image reconstruction .",
    "we determine the relative fluxes of the lt and fp sources and obtain rough measures for some of the spectral characteristics ( e.g. power - law indices ) using all possible ways of analysis that a 4 or 3 channel data set will allow .",
    "analysis of these results lead us to the following conclusions :    \\1 .",
    "the lt hard x - ray emission seems to be a common characteristic of the impulsive phase of solar flares , appearing in some form in 15 of the 18 selected flares .",
    "the absence of lt emission in the remaining cases is most likely due to the finite dynamic range of the imaging technique .",
    "the ratio of the summed fp to lt fluxes , lies in the range @xmath32 and has a relatively flat distribution in this range .",
    "the lower limit is intrinsic to the process but the upper limit is most likely due to the finite ( one decade ) dynamic range of the imaging technique . because of this it is difficult to know the true distribution of this ratio .",
    "the overall distribution of the power - law spectral indices rises rapidly above @xmath33 , peaks around 4 and declines gradually thereafter .",
    "this is similar to previous determinations of this distributions from hxrbs on board the _ solar maximum mission _",
    "( mctiernan & petrosian 1991 ) , but contains a few more steep spectra , specially for lt sources , which could be due to thermal contamination and lower energy range of the hxt compared to hxrbs .",
    "this agreement is encouraging and indicates the reliability of our spectral determination .",
    "the spectra tend to steepen at higher energies ( spectral index @xmath28 increases by 1 to 2 ) , especially for sources with @xmath34 , for which the thermal contribution should be the lowest .",
    "this is the opposite of what is observed at higher energies , where spectra tend to flatten above 100 s of kev ( mctiernan & petrosian 1991 ) .",
    "the directivity of the x - ray emission and the albedo effect for the limb flares under consideration could also play some role , especially for the fp source ( in the model discussed by * pd * the lt source should emit isotropically ) .",
    "however , this is expected to be a small effect at low energies ( @xmath35 kev ) under consideration here .",
    "the spectral index @xmath28 of lt sources is larger ( _ i.e. _ spectra are steeper ) than that of the fp sources on the average by one ( @xmath36 ) .",
    "the differences between directivity and the albedo effects mentioned above could be a partial reason for such a behavior , but the physics of the acceleration process must certainly play a role here .",
    "we have also described how the above results can be used to constrain the model parameters especially those related to the acceleration process .",
    "for example , for models with acceleration at the lt source ( see , e.g. park , petrosian & schwartz 1997 and * pd * ) , the observed ranges of the flux ratios and spectral indices indicate a rapid escape of the accelerated electron relative to the acceleration timescale , which is related to the momentum diffusion coefficient in the acceleration process . moreover , the difference between spectral indices of lt and fp sources can constrain the energy dependence of the escape time which is related to the pitch angle diffusion rate in the acceleration site .",
    "this demonstrates that similar studies of these characteristics of the flares can yield important information about the genesis and evolution of solar flares , and we eagerly anticipate the increased spectral , temporal and spatial resolution possible with the instruments of the upcoming hessi satellite .",
    "finally , we note that solar flares occur in many different morphologies , the most common being a simple flaring loop with one lt and two fp sources .",
    "however , as we discussed in  3.2 , interacting loop models and even more complicated structures are frequently observed .",
    "we would like to thank an anonymous referee for a careful reading of the original manuscript and for numerous helpful comments and suggestions that improved the paper considerably .",
    "this work is supported in parts by nasa grants nag-5 - 7144 - 0002 and nag5 - 8600 - 0001 and by a fellowship to tqd from stanford s undergraduate research opportunities .",
    "alexander , d. , & metcalf , t. r. 1997 , , 489 , 442 aschwanden er al .",
    "1999 , , 526 , 1026 masuda , s. 1994 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , the university of tokyo masuda , s. et al .",
    "1994 , nature , 371 , 455 mctiernan , j. m. , & petrosian , v. 1991 , , 379 , 381 park , b. t. , petrosian , v. , & schwartz , r. a. 1997 , , 489 , 358 petrosian , v. 1994 , in high - energy solar phenomena , eds . j. m. ryan & w. t. vestrand ( aip conf . proc .",
    "294 ) , 162 petrosian , v. 1996 , in high energy solar physics , eds .",
    "r. ramaty , n. mandzhavidze & x - m .",
    "hua ( aip conf .",
    "374 ) , 445 petrosian , v. , & donaghy , t. q. 1999 , , 527 , 945 * ( pd ) * petrosian , v. , & donaghy , t. q. 2000 , in high energy solar physics - anticipating hessi , eds .",
    "r. ramaty & n. mandzhavidze ( asp conf .",
    "series , 206 ) , 215 * pd * pryadko , j. , & petrosian , v. 1997 , , 482 , 774 pryadko , j. , & petrosian , v. 1998 , , 495 , 377 pryadko , j. , & petrosian , v. 1999 , , 515 , 873 sato , j. , sawa , m. , masuda , s. , sakao , t. , kosugi , t. , & sekiguchi , h. 1998 , the yohkoh hxt image catalogue , noboyama radio observatory publication sato , j. , kosugi , t. , & makishima , k. 1999 , , 51 , 127"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the discovery of hard x - ray sources near the top of a flaring loop by the hxt instrument on board the yohkoh satellite represents a significant progress towards the understanding of the basic processes driving solar flares . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we extend the previous study of limb flares by masuda ( 1994 ) by including all yohkoh observations up through august 1998 . </S>",
    "<S> we report that from october 1991 to august 1998 , yohkoh observed 20 x - ray bright limb flares ( where we use the same selection criteria as masuda ) , of which we have sufficient data to analyze 18 events , including 8 previously unanalyzed flares . of these 18 events , </S>",
    "<S> 15 show detectable impulsive looptop emission . considering that the finite dynamic range ( about a decade ) of the detection introduces a strong bias against observing comparatively weak looptop sources , </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that looptop emission is a common feature of all flares . </S>",
    "<S> we summarize the observations of the footpoint to looptop flux ratio and the spectral indices . </S>",
    "<S> we present light curves and images of all the important newly analyzed limb flares . </S>",
    "<S> whenever possible we present results for individual pulses in multipeak flares and for different loops for multiloop flares . </S>",
    "<S> we then discuss the statistics of the fluxes and spectral indices of the looptop and footpoint sources taking into account observational selection biases . </S>",
    "<S> the importance of these observations ( and those expected from the scheduled hessi satellite with its superior angular spectral and temporal resolution ) in constraining acceleration models and parameters is discussed briefly .    _ subject headings : _ sun : flares  sun : x - rays  acceleration of particles </S>"
  ]
}