{
  "article_text": [
    "active galactic nuclei ( agn ) are observed across the whole electromagnetic spectrum , but x - ray observations probe the process of converting gravitational energy into radiation most directly , as spectral and variability studies have shown that at least some of the x - ray emission comes from regions very close to the central engine .",
    "the most luminous agn are found at high redshift and thus their study probes accretion processes and agn environment early in the universe .",
    "agn comprise a large variety of objects , for which both simple and more complicated classification schemes have been proposed .",
    "unification models explain the observed differences among agn as the result of orientation with respect to the line of sight ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "in particular , it is proposed that powerful radio galaxies and radio - loud quasars are the same objects , and an obscuring torus is invoked to hide the nucleus of objects ( namely radio galaxies ) viewed at large angles to the jet axis ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "large orientation - unbiased samples of agn are needed to test unification .",
    "they must be observed at many wavelengths , in order to detect both isotropic and anisotropic emission . at low radio frequencies optically - thin synchrotron radiation from the radio lobes of radio - loud agn",
    "dominates the emission , and this lobe emission should be isotropic .",
    "thus , selection of objects via their low - frequency radio emission represents the most reliable method for selecting an orientation - unbiased sample .",
    "the low - frequency radio emission is also an indirect measure of the power supplied by the jet over the lifetime of the source ( some 10@xmath3 yr ) .",
    "x - ray emission on small spatial scales , particularly at soft energies , is expected to be anisotropic because of the obscuring torus required in unified models to obscure the broad - line region and optical continuum emission .",
    "for those sources which are radio - loud , high - frequency nuclear radio emission , probing sub - arcsecond scales of the source , is explained as synchrotron radiation from the unresolved bases of relativistic jets , which is anisotropic due to relativistic beaming .",
    "the correlation found using _",
    "data between the nuclear , soft x - ray emission and the core radio emission of powerful radio - loud agn ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) thus implies that at least part of the soft x - ray emission is also relativistically beamed and originates at the base of the jet @xcite . from _",
    "rosat _ data it had earlier been found that lobe - dominated quasars tend to lie above the flux - flux correlation valid for core - dominated quasars @xcite , supporting the idea that lobe - dominated quasars are viewed at an angle to the line of sight such that the observer sees in x - ray both the jet - dominated component and a more isotropically emitted , probably nucleus - related component , with the two components being more similar in flux density than for the core - dominated quasars .",
    "this suggestion is further supported by the rather flat x - ray spectra of radio - loud ( core - dominated or blazar - type ) quasars , with slopes @xmath4 ( e.g. , @xcite ) , which may be compared to the values of @xmath5 more commonly found in their radio - quiet counterparts ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the flat spectrum has been interpreted as the result of beamed emission from the jet .",
    "x - ray results supporting unification of quasars with powerful , ( narrow - line ) radio galaxies ( i.e. that those sources are viewed on the plane of the sky and are thus strongly obscured by a torus ) , especially at redshift above 0.5 , are less abundant .",
    "few such radio galaxies were detected in x - ray with _",
    "rosat_. however , @xcite found that the core soft x - ray emission of the galaxy 3c280 lies on an extrapolation of the correlation obtained for core - dominated quasars , and interpreted the result as due to x - ray emission from a jet - related component , with the nucleus - related component being obscured by a putative torus .",
    "this result was later extended to a a larger sample of radio galaxies by @xcite .    in the simple picture of an obscuring torus ,",
    "quasar light heats the gas and dust of the torus and thermal radiation is re - emitted isotropically in the mid / far - infrared in order to maintain energy balance in the inner regions .",
    "thus , in principle , far - infrared radiation should provide an orientation - independent measure of the emitted power from the central engine .",
    "studies based on data from _ iras _ ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , and later the infrared space observatory ( _ iso _ ) ( e.g. @xcite ) were controversial because of the limited sensitivity and spectral coverage that made it difficult to separate star formation heating and agn heating .",
    "the sensitivity in the mid / far - infrared of the _ spitzer _ satellite provides for the first time the possibility to test this hypothesis for a large number of objects . @xcite have found that indeed agn heating contributes more than 50 per cent of the far - infrared luminosity in most objects from a sample of 20 radio - loud galaxies and quasars .",
    "a study of a sample of sources at a range of orientations for which x - ray and mid / far - infrared properties derived from high - quality data can be compared , is useful for understanding selection effects in x - ray - selected samples and for comparison with the new understanding of these sources coming from _ spitzer _ data .",
    "here we present high - quality x - ray observations obtained with  and  of 19 sources in the redshift range 0.5@xmath6 , which are mostly part of a larger sample of faranoff - riley type ii ( frii ) radio galaxies and quasars currently being observed with _",
    "spitzer_. in this paper we focus on the x - ray properties of the nuclear regions ; we will address the environment of these sources ( which is also a potential source of isotropic x - ray emission ) in a forthcoming paper .    throughout this paper",
    "we use the concordance cosmology with @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 .",
    "if not otherwise stated , errors are quoted at @xmath10 for one interesting parameter .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,<,^,<,^ , > \" , ]     @xmath11 statistical analysis is performed using only those sources with detections .",
    "we find a different behaviour when looking at the unabsorbed , soft power law characterising some of the radio galaxies in the sample .",
    "for the four radio galaxies for which a spectral index was determined , we find a mean spectral index @xmath12 .",
    "although errors are large , this analysis suggests that when an unabsorbed soft component is present , its spectrum is relatively steep .",
    "a k - s test applied to the spectral index of the unabsorbed components of radio galaxies and the absorbed components of the whole sample allows us to reject the null hypothesis that the two samples are drawn from the same population at better than 99 per cent confidence .",
    "we have assembled x - ray results for a sample of 19 radio galaxies ( rgs ) and radio - loud quasars ( rlqs ) for which core spectral properties have been derived with good precision .",
    "core spectral properties have been discussed before for rlqs at high redshift ( e. g. , @xcite ) , in particular for core - dominated sources with resolved jet - emission ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "this is the first time that the unabsorbed and absorbed x - ray emission from rgs at @xmath0 has been measured with precision in a systematic way and with a well - defined sample .",
    "previous large - scale analyses of the x - ray spectrum of rgs have been limited to the soft ( unabsorbed ) x - ray emission from these sources and/or have had insufficient spatial or spectral resolution to allow separation of core and extended emission .",
    "our sample allows us to discuss our spectral results in the context of unification schemes .",
    "the  spatial resolution allows us to separate emission from the core and to establish , through spectral fitting , that the emission from the central 5 pixels of the observation for 17 of the 18 sources in the sample can be described by one or more power laws .",
    "3c292 , observed only with , also shows power - law emission in the core spectrum .",
    "the nuclear x - ray continuum is well described by a single power law with galactic absorption for all quasars , while 70 per cent of rgs in our sample show intrinsic absorption ranging from 0.3 to 50 @xmath13 @xmath14 . for about 50 per cent of all sources , mostly rgs ,",
    "we conclude that a single power - law model does not satisfactorily fit the data .",
    "as discussed in the introduction , the soft x - ray nuclear emission of core - dominated quasars is consistent with that arising from a relativistic jet , in agreement with results based on data from _",
    "einstein _ ( e.g. @xcite ) , _ rosat _",
    "( e.g. , @xcite ) , and asca ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "only very few radio galaxies have been detected with _ rosat _ at soft energy , and they were found to lie on an extension of the flux - flux correlation for core - dominated quasars @xcite . we follow the interpretation of @xcite in explaining the lower x - ray flux density of the radio galaxies as due to the effect of a relativistic jet which beams the emission from the core - dominated quasars into the line of sight .",
    "our study shows that radio - galaxy soft x - ray flux density is indeed consistent with being unboosted emission from the same component as seen in the core - dominated quasars ( fig .",
    "[ fig:2fluxcorr ] ) . however , the spectrum is significantly steeper , with an average value of @xmath15 ( @xmath16 ) , and is consistent with the extrapolation of a broken - power law synchrotron spectrum of @xmath17 from radio frequencies , as observed in the resolved jets of lower - redshift fri radio galaxies ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "the steep spectrum disfavours inverse compton ( ic ) scattering as the mechanism for _ this _ emission . on the other hand ,",
    "the flat x - ray spectrum ( @xmath18 ) observed in core - dominated quasars is suggestive of ic emission becoming dominant as the doppler factor becomes larger ( e.g. , @xcite ) . in core - dominated quasars",
    "the inner jet is unobscured , and synchrotron self - compton emission and upscattering of external photons from the nucleus are expected to dominate , while scattering of cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) photons by a beamed jet might become important at larger jet radii .",
    "since increased beaming depresses the x - ray to radio ( ic to synchrotron ) ratio , the slope of the correlation in figure  [ fig:2fluxcorr ] ( 1.0 for radio galaxies , flattening to 0.8 for core - dominated quasars ) can be qualitatively understood , and confirm previous work within the limited statistics of our sample of core - dominated quasars .",
    "the biggest surprise is that , with the exception of 3c292 and 3c330 , the absorbed components of radio galaxies have flatter spectra ( @xmath19 = 1.57@xmath20 ) than those of radio - quiet quasars ( rqqs ) ( typically @xmath21 1.9 - 2.0 , e.g. @xcite ) and consistent with the best - fitting power law of rlqs ( @xmath22 ) , although somewhat steeper than the core - dominated sample alone ( @xmath23 ) .",
    "there are two possible explanations for this observation .",
    "one is that the x - ray properties of the accretion regions in radio - loud and radio - quiet objects are different .",
    "however , if we wish to retain a simple unification scheme in which radio - loud sources are essentially radio - quiet ones with the addition of jets , then our results imply that the absorbed emission that we measure in 70 per cent of the rgs in our sample is primarily associated with the inner jet rather than with the accretion region .",
    "there is no reason in principle why jet emission can not come from within the torus , and the flat x - ray spectrum of this emission is certainly consistent with a jet model .    it is thus interesting to ask whether the central engine is the same in radio - loud and radio - quiet objects . for lobe or core - dominated quasars the beamed and unbeamed components can not be separated , but radio galaxies allow us to try to answer this question .",
    "we can ask at what level absorbed emission with a steep spectrum as measured for rlqs may be present in radio galaxies , assuming that we are not sensitive enough to measure it .",
    "if a steep component of high absorption is mixed with a flatter one with lower absorption then the fitted slope can be relatively flat and unabsorbed , even if the absorption - corrected luminosity of the steeper component is significant .    .",
    "symbols are as in fig .",
    "[ fig:2fluxcorr ] , the white box is 3c427.1 for which the spectral index was fixed . the dot - dashed line is the best - fit buckley - james ( b - j ) correlation ( as implemented in asurv rev 1.1 and presented in @xcite ) to the subsample of quasars ; the continuous line is the best - fit b - j regression to the subsample of core - dominated quasars . ]",
    "the result shown in figure  [ fig : lrlxcorr ] , in which radio - galaxy x - ray luminosities are lower than those of quasars , may support this . although we expect core - dominated quasars to have higher luminosities , since no correction for beaming",
    "is applied , this may also suggest that part of the difference between the two populations of sources arises because radio - galaxy luminosities are underestimated if the correct model has an additional steep absorbed component of high intrinsic luminosity .",
    "further support comes from figure [ fig : spindexvsrc ] . here",
    "the spectral index ( absorbed component for radio galaxies ) is plotted versus the core - dominance parameter @xmath24 .",
    "this is defined as the ratio between the core luminosity density at 5 ghz and the large scale luminosity density at 178 mhz ( @xmath25 ) and is accepted as an orientation parameter . in agreement with what has been found earlier with larger samples ( e.g. , @xcite ) , at least for core- and lobe - dominated quasars , we observe a tendency for the spectral index @xmath19 to increase with lower core dominance .",
    "however , no information was available in these earlier studies on the absorbed components of rgs .",
    "the sample of rgs discussed here extends the sampling of the core - dominance parameter by 2 order of magnitude over the use of quasars alone .",
    "the anti - correlation for core - dominated quasars is significant at the 90 per cent level on a kendall s @xmath26 test .",
    "the anti - correlation is also valid for the population of all quasars ( lobe - dominated plus core - dominated ) , but the slope tends to zero , the smaller @xmath24 becomes .",
    "this result could be an indication of the presence of an additional , _ isotropic _ spectral component in the radio - galaxy population",
    ". we may be indirectly observing the effects of accretion - related emission similar to that observed in rqqs , i.e. heavily absorbed and with spectral slope @xmath27 , which may be ( partially ) masked by a less absorbed , jet - related component .",
    "in an attempt to test this hypothesis quantitatively for the rgs in our sample , we simulated a spectrum in xspec using the response file for the core region of one of the radio galaxies .",
    "we initially simulated a power law of spectral index @xmath28 , which is similar to that found for rqqs ( e.g. @xcite ) absorbed by a column density @xmath29 @xmath14 , i.e. @xmath30 a factor of @xmath3010 higher than the average absorption found for radio galaxies of our sample .",
    "we then added a flatter power law ( of @xmath31 , the average value for radio galaxies ; see table [ tab : spindexstat ] ) absorbed by a column density @xmath32 = @xmath33 .",
    "for simplicity we ignored a soft unabsorbed component .",
    "we varied the normalization of the steeper power law until the whole spectrum was fitted with a single power law .",
    "we found that with a large number of counts ( excellent photon statistics ) the steep power law is washed out if its contribution to the normalization at 1 kev is @xmath34 per cent of the softer power law .",
    "the statistics in real observations are limited by effective area and exposure time .",
    "we thus repeated the same exercise using photon statistics similar to those of our data .",
    "this yielded the conclusion that a steep , absorbed power law is not detected spectrally in the presence of a flatter and less absorbed power law emission if the 1-kev normalizations of the two components are similar .",
    "if the normalization at 1 kev of the steeper highly absorbed power law is a factor of two greater that the original less absorbed component , then we still find that the whole spectrum can be fitted with a single power law of a spectral index which is found to be flatter than @xmath35 .",
    "this may explain , for example , the very flat absorbed - power - law slope of 3c265 .",
    "the result can be attributed to the acis - s response : since the sensitivity at 1 kev is higher than at higher energies , the effect of the flat spectrum resulting from the large absorption dominates that of the steep spectrum at high energy .    a steep - spectrum core - related component of intrinsic luminosity at least a factor of two greater than the 210 kev luminosity that we actually measure may be present for all our absorbed radio galaxies , and with the current data we are unable to separate this component .",
    "our simulations thus support the hypothesis that the observed absorbed emission from rgs is jet - related or jet - dominated .",
    "however we can not exclude the possibility that the central agn in rlqs and rqqs are different .      .",
    "the 3crr designation for each galaxy is also marked .",
    "symbols are as in fig .",
    "[ fig:2fluxcorr ] . ]",
    "the correlation between the x - ray flux density at 1 kev and the core prominence parameter @xmath24 ( fig .  [ fig:1kevfluxvsrc ] ) is an alternative representation of information shown in figure  [ fig:2fluxcorr ] , since the sources have similar isotropic luminosities and the 5-ghz flux density is beamed .",
    "however , we notice that the rgs with no or weak absorption are those with a larger @xmath24 and that they occupy a position in that plot which is closer to that of lobe - dominated quasars .",
    "this is consistent with the expectations from unified models , in which the x - ray emission from quasars which are viewed at a large angle to the line of sight is the sum of jet - related and core - related emission .",
    "the finding that only rgs show intrinsic , rest - frame absorption is again in agreement with unification models if these sources are viewed in the plane of the sky through an absorber .",
    "if emission from rgs is not affected by beaming , we expect a slope close to 1 for the correlation between x - ray and radio core emissions , which is what we find .",
    "moreover , we also find that the slope of the correlation valid for radio and x - ray flux density becomes smaller the more the beaming is expected to play a role , as in core - dominated quasars ( but note that this effect is less observed in the luminosity - luminosity relations ) .",
    "this is an indirect indication of the different effects of beaming in the x - ray and the radio , which depends on the mechanism responsible for the emission .",
    "we argued in sec .",
    "[ sec : origin ] that it is likely that synchrotron radiation accounts for the jet x - ray emission in radio galaxies and that ic becomes important , or even dominant , in core - dominated quasars .",
    "we do not find any correlation between the absorption and the redshift , as found for larger samples of both rqqs and rlqs ( e.g. @xcite ; but the correlation is significant only for sources at redshift above 1 ) , but we notice that the 3 rgs in our sample which do not show intrinsic absorption are also those at lower redshift .",
    "no significant correlation was found between the intrinsic @xmath36 and the spectral index , strengthening the constraints we can put on these two parameters , since they are intrinsically correlated .",
    "a new result is that the unabsorbed non - thermal emission from rgs is consistent with synchrotron emission from a high - energy extension of the electrons which emit at radio frequencies . because of the relatively short energy - loss timescales of the responsible electrons we may expect soft x - ray variations on short timescales for at least some of these sources",
    "this is not observed , but this may be an effect of the limited statistics available for such high redshift objects .",
    "we have presented x - ray spectra of the unresolved components of 9 quasars and 10 radio galaxies which were similar in isotropic radio power and which lie in the redshift range @xmath0 .",
    "this is the first time that two spectral components have been reported in the core spectra of a reasonably large sample of radio galaxies .",
    "we have compared our results with the expectations from a unification model that describes each source as having a ) a central largely isotropic x - ray component similar to the x - ray core of a radio quiet quasar ; b ) a torus that absorbs x - ray core emission from sources whose jets are in the plane of the sky ( namely radio galaxies ) , and c ) x - ray jet emission on scales comparable with and larger than the torus    several results support this simple unification model and allow conclusions to be drawn about the origin of the x - ray emission in both radio galaxies and quasars :    1 .",
    "radio galaxies display higher intrinsic absorption than quasars , as expected from b ) ; 2 .",
    "an unabsorbed x - ray component is also seen in radio galaxies ; we interpret this component as arising from the jet .",
    "its steep slope ( steeper than the radio spectrum ) is consistent with a synchrotron origin ; 3 .",
    "radio galaxies show a radio - core / x - ray - core correlation of slope @xmath37 when the unabsorbed x - ray component is used .",
    "this also argues in favour of a jet - related emission .",
    "the radio - core / x - ray - core correlation flattens when quasars are considered , i.e. they are relatively x - ray under - luminous for a given radio flux density .",
    "this is qualitatively consistent with ic x - ray emission becoming more dominant than synchrotron in the jet as the angle to the line of sight is decreased and beaming becomes more important .",
    "the flat x - ray slope of the core - dominated quasars ( similar to the radio slope ) supports this conclusion .",
    "beaming causes the jet to outshine other core components in the x - ray .",
    "the lobe - dominated quasars have somewhat more x - ray emission than expected on the basis of the jet component in radio galaxies , implying an unabsorbed contribution from the inner nucleus that is not outshone by beamed emission in these sources .",
    "the two contributions to the x - ray emission can not be separated with current statistics .",
    "although the radio galaxies show absorbed x - ray emission , its spectrum is flatter than is typically seen in rqqs .",
    "this implies that either the nuclear emission is affected by the presence of a jet or that the absorbed emission is largely from the jet .",
    "we have shown through simulations that it is possible that a steep - spectrum absorbed core can be present , but masked by jet emission .",
    "e.b . thanks pparc for support and mjh thanks the royal society for a research fellowship .",
    "we are grateful to d. a. evans for long and helpful discussions about pileup , and thank g.w .",
    "pratt for a careful reading of the manuscript .",
    "e. b. thanks m. cappi for interesting discussion .",
    "we acknowledge an anonymous referee for helpful comments and suggestions which improved the manuscript . this research has made use of the the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france , and the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .    aller m. f. , aller h. d. , hughes p. a. , 2003 , apj , 586 , 33 ballet j. , 1999 , a&as , 135 , 371 barthel p.d . , 1989 , apj , 336 , 606 belsole e. , worrall d. m. , hardcastle m. j. , birkinshaw m. , lawrence c. r , 2004 , mnras , 352 , 924 bhringer h. , belsole e. , kennea j. , et al . , 2001 , a&a , 365 , l181 bondi m. , brunetti g. , comastri a. , setti g. , 2004 , mnras , 354 , 43 bridle , a.h .",
    "& fomalont , e.b . , 1978 , aj , 83 , 704 brinkmann w. , laurent - muehleisen s. a. , voges w. , siebert j. , becker r. h. , brotherton m. s. , white r. l. , gregg m. d. , 2000 , a&a , 356 , 445 brinkmann w. , yuan w. , siebert j. , 1997 , a&a , 319 , 413 brunetti g. , bondi m. , comastri a. , setti g. , 2002 , a&a , 381 , 795 canizares c.r .",
    ", white j.l . , 1989 ,",
    "apj , 339 , 27 crawford c.s .",
    ", fabian a.c . , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 1163 croston j.h . , hardcastle m.j .",
    ", harris d. e. , belsole e. , birkinshaw m. , worrall d.m .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 626,733 davis j.e . , 2001 , apj , 562 , 575 ; http://space.mit.edu/ + % 7edavis / papers / pileup2001.ps dickey j.m . &",
    "lockman f.j . , 1990 , ara&a , 28 , 215 donahue m. , daly r. a. , horner d. j. , 2003 , apj , 584 , 643 evans d.a .",
    ", hardcastle m.j . ,",
    "croston j.h .",
    ", worrall d.m . ,",
    "birkinshaw m. , 2005 , mnras , 359.363 galbiati e. , et al . , 2005 , a&a , 430 , 927 gambill j.k . ,",
    "sambruna r.m .",
    ", chartas g. , cheung c. c. , maraschi l. , tavecchio f. , urry c.m . , pesce j.e . , a&a , 401 , 505 hardcastle m. j. , worrall d. m. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , 969 hardcastle m.j . , worrall d. m. , 2000 , mnras , 319 , 562 hardcastle m. j. , birkinshaw m. , worrall d. m. , mnras , 326 , 1499 hardcastle m.j . , birkinsahw m. , cameron r. a. , harris d. e. , looney l. w. , worrall d. m. , 2002 , apj , 581 , 948 hardcastle m. j. , harris d. e. , worrall d. m. , birkinshaw m. , 2004 , apj , 612 , 729 hasenkopf c.a .",
    ", sambruna r.m . , eracleous m. , 2002,apj , 575,127 heckman t.m . , chambers k.c . ,",
    "postman m. , 1992 , apj , 391 , 39 he s r. , barthel p.d . , hoekstra h. , 1995 , a&a , 303 , 8 hough d. h. , vermeulen r. c. , readhead a. c. s. , cross l. l. , barth e. l. , yu l. h. , beyer p. j. , phifer e. m. , 2002 , aj , 123 , 125 kembhavi a. , feigelson e.d . ,",
    "singh k.p .",
    ", 1986 , mnras , 220 , 51 isobe t. , feigelson e. d. , nelson p. i. , 1986 , apj , 306 , 490 isobe t. , feigelson e.d . , akritas m. j. , babu j. , 1990 , apj , 346 , 104 laing r. a. , riley j. m. , longair m. s. , 1983 , mnras , 204 , 151 lavalley m. , isobe t. , feigelson e. d. , 1992 , baas , 24 , 839 lister m. l. , tingay s. j. , preston r. a. , 2001 , apj , 554 , 964 marshall h.l . , et al . , 2005 , apjs , 156 , 13 mccarthy p. j. , van breugel w. , spinrad h. , djorgovski s. , 1987 , apj , 321 , 29 meisenheimer k. , haas m. , mller s. a. h. , chini r. , klaas u. , lemke , d , 2001 , a&a , 372 , 719 prieto m. a. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 421 ridgway s. e. , stockton a. , lacy m. , 2004 , apj , 600 , 70 reeves j.n .",
    ", turner m.j.l . , ohashi t. , kii t. , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 468 reeves j.n .",
    ", turner m.j.l . , 2000 , mnras , 316 , 234 sambruna r. m. , eracleous m. , mushotzky r. f. , 1999 , apj , 526 , 60 shastri p. , wilkes b. j. , elvis m. , mcdowell , j. , 1993 , apj , 410",
    ", 29 shi y. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , in press ( astro - ph/0504622 ) tavecchio f. , et al . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 575 , 137 unwin s. c. , wehrle a. e. , lobanov a. p. , zensus j. a. , madejski g. m. , aller m. f. , aller , h. d. , 1997 , apj , 480 , 596 urry c.m . , padovani p. , 1995 ,",
    "pasp , 107 , 803 yuan w. , brinkmann w. , siebert j. , voges w. , 1998 , a&a , 330 , 108 worrall d. m. , 1989 , in _ agn and the x - ray background _ , proceedings of the 23rd eslab symposium , bologna , esa sp-296 , p. 719 - 726 .",
    "worrall d.m .",
    ", wilkes b.j . , 1990 ,",
    "apj , 360 , 396 worrall d.m . , lawrence c. r. , pearson t. j. , readhead a. c. s. , 1994 , apj , 420 , 17 worrall d. m. , birkinshaw m. , hardcastle m. j. , lawrence c. r. , 2001a , mnras , 326 , 1127 worrall d.m . , birkinshaw m. , hardcastle m.j . , 2001b , mnras , 326 , l7",
    "* 3c6.1 * : the source was observed in two separate exposures of 36 ks ( obs i d 3009 ) and 20 ks ( obs i d 4363 ) , respectively .",
    "we extracted the spectrum in the same region ( a circle of radius 2.5 pixels ) for the two exposures .",
    "observation 3009 contains 1568 net counts in the 0.2 - 10.0 kev energy band .",
    "observation 4363 contains 758 counts in the same energy band .",
    "the two spectra were fitted simultaneously .",
    "we fitted the spectrum with a model composed of a power law and a pileup model .",
    "however the addition of the pileup model does not improve the fit , and in each exposure the estimated puf is less than 8 per cent .",
    "x - ray emission is also observed from hotspots @xcite and from the lobes @xcite . with a mean flux of 0.044@xmath38 for obs",
    "i d 3009 and of 0.039@xmath39 for obs i d 4363 , no significant variability can be claimed .    * 3c184 * : the  data do not contain enough counts ( 15@xmath40 net counts ) to perform a spectral analysis . for this source",
    "the spectral properties of the core are derived from  data .",
    "the source is very small in the radio , with a maximum extent of only 5 arcsec . as discussed in @xcite the  spectrum",
    "is fitted by a three - component model representing the emission from a cluster - like atmosphere , with best - fit parameters k@xmath41 = 3.6@xmath42 kev , z / z@xmath43 = 0.3 , and bolometric @xmath44 erg s@xmath45 ; a jet / lobe related soft non - thermal component ; and a core - related absorbed power law component as listed in table [ tab : corehard ] .    *",
    "3c200 * : the source shows extended x - ray emission out to 10 arcsec , but point - like emission dominates within the 2.5 pixel radius of the circle used for the core spectral analysis .",
    "the x - ray properties of the core of this source have not been described previously in the literature .    * 3c207 * : the core spectrum of 3c207 is best - fitted with a single power - law of rather flat slope @xmath46 .",
    "this is in agreement with what was found previously by @xcite ( @xmath47 ) , and @xcite ( @xmath48 ) .",
    "we do not find evidence for absorption above the galactic value as found by @xcite , and , although we do not exclude emission of ionized gas in the nucleus , the addition of a gaussian iron line does not improve the fit statistically .",
    "hotspot , jet , lobe and extended emission were also previously discussed ( e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "the 2.010.0-kev flux we found is somewhat lower than found by @xcite , but the two values agree within 20 per cent .    * 3c220.1 * : the source shows extended emission which is likely to be cluster - like in origin @xcite .",
    "the spectral index we found is somewhat flatter than that found by @xcite , who found that intrinsic absorption was required . when our results are compared with the worrall et al .",
    "fit without intrinsic absorption then the two slopes are in good agreement .",
    "moreover , after taking into account the different cosmological parameters , fluxes and luminosities are in agreement .    * 3c228 *",
    ": the source was observed in two separate exposures of 10 ks ( obs i d 2453 ) and 13 ks ( obs i d 2095 ) , respectively , after flare screening .",
    "the shorter observation detected 281 net counts , while the longer has 365 , consistent with no flux variation between the two .    *",
    "3c254 * : the source is piled up . within uncertainties",
    "our power - low slope is in agreement with that found by @xcite using the same data .",
    "the flux and luminosity are also in agreement after considering the different cosmological parameters .",
    "the 1-kev flux density is 1/3 greater than that found by @xcite , but this is likely to be within the large uncertainties arising from the _ rosat _ analysis .    * 3c263 * : the source is heavily piled up .",
    "we examined the spectrum extracted in several regions and we finally adopted the annular region of inner radius 3 pixels and outer radius 5 pixels as the least affected by pileup . the background spectrum was extracted in an annulus of inner and outer radii 9 and 12 pixels , respectively .",
    "we also excluded the emission from the jet using a rectangular region .",
    "the power - law slope agrees with that found by @xcite using the same data to within 1@xmath49 errors .",
    "the 1-kev flux density differs significantly , with our value found to be 50 per cent lower , even after according a systematic error of 10 per cent to account for the psf correction factor .",
    "this is likely to be due to a combination of a different region used ( hardcastle et al .",
    "used a circle of radius 5 pixels ) and improvement in the calibration since the hardcastle et al .",
    "analysis , or their use of a pileup model rather than fitting the spectrum in an annulus .    *",
    "3c265 * : the fit of this source spectrum requires 5 components .",
    "the model is composed of galactic absorption , a power law , an absorbed power law and a gaussian at the energy of the neutral iron line .",
    "@xcite discussed the properties of this source in detail .",
    "we find that the slope of the absorbed power law is consistent with the result of @xcite .",
    "* : there is no evidence for x - ray emission from a resolved jet , but the source shows extended emission which has been interpreted as arising from a cluster - like atmosphere @xcite or from lobe inverse - compton emission @xcite .    * 3c280 * : this source is one of the best studied powerful radio galaxies .",
    "it has an extended emission - line ( oii ) nebula with a central peak and a loop around the eastern radio lobes ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "we selected a background in the canonical annulus of inner radius 3.5 pixels and outer radius 6 pixels , but we also excluded the eastern and western regions corresponding to the x - ray lobes .",
    "there are only 50 net source counts , but these are at energies above 1 kev , suggesting that we are seeing an absorbed power law .",
    "@xcite , also using  data , find a very flat spectral index , consistent with zero , when fitting between 0.3 and 8.0 kev .",
    "the 1-kev flux density we found is in agreement with their result .",
    "3c280 was one of the few high - redshift radio galaxies with a clear _ rosat _ detection @xcite .",
    "discrepancies between the _ rosat _ and  results have been discussed by @xcite .",
    "constraints on the soft emission were obtained by fixing the slope of the unabsorbed power law to 2.1 , as for other radio galaxies for which direct fitting was possible .",
    "the absorbed component parameters were also fixed to obtain constraints on the normalization of the unabsorbed component . because parameter values have been fixed",
    ", we added a systematic error of 20 per cent to the flux and luminosity of the unabsorbed component .",
    "* 3c292 * : we used  data for this source .",
    "details of the analysis are described by @xcite . the core spectrum extracted in a circle of radius 10 arcsec",
    "was fitted with a two - power - law model .",
    "the source also shows extended x - ray emission coincident with the radio lobes but little spectral evidence for a cluster - like atmosphere .      *",
    "3c330 * : the source x - ray image shows the presence of some extended emission aligned with the radio lobes ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "core emission was analysed previously using  data @xcite and results are in good agreement despite the slightly different regions used for spectral analysis .    * 3c334 * : a reduced @xmath50 of 1.35 suggests that an additional component may be necessary .",
    "however , the addition of a thermal or power - law component does not improve the fit .",
    "some residuals are observed at low energy ( below 0.7 kev ) suggesting a soft excess .    * 3c345 * : in agreement with @xcite we find that two power laws are necessary to fit the spectrum from this source : a steeper ( @xmath51 ) slope fits the soft spectrum , while a flatter ( @xmath52 ) is used to represent that hard spectrum . using the broken - power - law model we find an energy break of 1.74@xmath53 kev , in agreement within the errors with @xcite .    * 3c380 * : the strong pileup for this source led us to mask a central circle of radius 1.5 arcsec .",
    "our result is in agreement with that found by @xcite using _ rosat _ data ( @xmath54 ) and consistent with the photon index recently published by @xcite : @xmath55 .",
    "however there is a discrepancy between our and their measure of the x - ray flux .",
    "we and @xcite extracted the spectrum from the same area ; we used slightly different background , but the background is negligible for such a high - flux source .",
    "however , the big difference between the two studies is the calibration .",
    "our newer analysis has taken into account the charge transfer inefficiency and the arf is better determined . moreover , without using a pileup model , marshall et al . found a poor fit , with a spectrum that was inconsistently flatter than that in the current work , and consequently a lower 1-kev flux density .",
    "marshall et al . attributed the flat spectrum and bad fit to pileup ,",
    "but the improved calibration now available allows a more precise flux density to be determined .    *",
    "* : the statistics are not sufficient to perform conclusive spectral fitting .",
    "the spectrum is dominated by hard emission , with only 3 of the 15 counts found at energy below 2 kev .",
    "we fixed the parameters for an absorbed power law to typical values found for the other radio galaxies in the sample .",
    "we thus adopted a model composed of an absorbed power law of spectral index 1.6 , and intrinsic absorption 1@xmath56 @xmath14 .",
    "we also obtained an upper limit for the presence of an unabsorbed soft component .    * 3c454.3 * : the source is heavily piled up .",
    "we extracted the spectrum in an annulus of inner and outer radii 2.0 and 2.5 pixels .",
    "although in this region any effect of pileup is negligible ( and indeed the addition of a pileup model does not improve the fit ) , the best - fit spectral index is rather flat .",
    "@xcite found a slightly steeper spectral index , but this is attributable to the different calibration used ( see also 3c380 ) .",
    "as in the case of 3c380 , when the spectrum is fitted above 1 kev the two results are in better agreement .",
    "our best - fit @xmath19 is also in agreement with @xcite who used _ bepposax _ data .",
    "discrepancy in the 1-kev flux quoted by us and marshall et al .",
    "are explicable as for the case of 3c380 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an extensive x - ray spectral analysis of the cores of 19 frii sources in the redshift range @xmath0 which were selected to be matched in isotropic radio power . </S>",
    "<S> the sample consists of 10 radio galaxies and 9 quasars . </S>",
    "<S> we compare our results with the expectations from a unification model that ascribes the difference between these two types of sources to the viewing angle to the line of sight , beaming and the presence of a dust and gas torus . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the spectrum of all the quasars can be fitted with a single power law , and that the spectral index flattens with decreasing angle to the line of sight . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret this as the effect of increasingly dominant inverse compton x - ray emission , beamed such that the jet emission outshines other core components . for up to 70 per cent of the radio galaxies we detect intrinsic absorption ; their core spectra are best fitted with an unabsorbed steep power law of average spectral index @xmath1 and an absorbed power law of spectral index @xmath2 , which is flatter than that observed for radio - quiet quasars . </S>",
    "<S> we further conclude that the presence of a jet affects the spectral properties of absorbed nuclear emission in agn . in radio galaxies , </S>",
    "<S> any steep - spectrum component of nuclear x - ray emission , similar to that seen in radio - quiet quasars , must be masked by a jet or by jet - related emission .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active : high redshift : nuclei ; quasars : general ; radio continuum : galaxies ; x - ray : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}