{
  "article_text": [
    "@xmath0cdm represents the current paradigm for the formation and evolution of structure in the universe . while successul on large scales , focus has recently turned to its inability to correctly predict the number of satellite systems in galactic halos @xcite .",
    "this _ missing satellite problem _ is apparent with the milky way , with recent observations indicating that the milky way has undergone a single large accretion , the sagittarius dwarf galaxy , in the last @xmath1gyrs  @xcite , although some older accretions are apparent in phase - space  @xcite .        to compare with predictions from @xmath2cdm models ,",
    "the accretion history of the milky way needs to be mapped out . as with many studies of the universe ,",
    "however , our view of the galactic halo , and any accreting systems , is obscured by the disk of the milky way .",
    "recent large scale surveys of this region , however , have uncovered a curious overdensity of stars that has been interpreted as being part of a current accretion event that is taking place within the plane of the milky way .",
    "this paper reviews the discovery of this object and our current understanding of its properties .",
    "the first indication of an additional halo population of stars was found by  @xcite while examining halo stars drawn from the sloan digital sky survey . taken in a narrow band of @xmath3 about the celestial equator , and selected to have the colours of f - stars",
    ", these data revealed a prominent overdensity of halo stars which has been interpreted as the survey slicing through the stream of tidal debris from the sagittarius dwarf galaxy .",
    "one additional prominent overdensity of stars was identified within the halo , towards the galactic anti - centre , in the direction of monoceros , at a galactocentric distance of @xmath4kpc and width @xmath5kpc . while a galactic origin could not be conclusively ruled out",
    ", @xcite suggested that this too represented a tidal stream , but of a yet unknown disrupting companion galaxy ,    spurred by this discovery , @xcite searched for the signature of the monoceros stream of stars in the isaac newton telescope wide field survey data archive .",
    "analysis of colour - magnitude diagrams , @xcite confirmed the identification of the distinct stellar population in the vicinity of monoceros .",
    "this study also identified the monoceros stream population in a number of additional fields , revealing this population to extend @xmath6 over the sky , within @xmath7 of the galactic equator , and @xcite suggest that the monoceros stream actually rings the galaxy .",
    "fitting the main sequence of this stellar population in each field , this study estimates that the distance to the stream ranges from @xmath8 to @xmath9kpc , with an apparent scale - height of @xmath10kpc .",
    "while they consider the possibility that this stellar population was an accreting dwarf , they also pointed out that their data is consistent with other hypotheses including an outer spiral arm or unknown flare / warp generated via a resonance in the galactic disk .    at the same time as the @xcite results",
    ", @xcite presented a kinematic analysis of a galactic halo stars drawn from the sdss . focusing upon f - star candidates , this study obtained spectra in several regions , allowing the determination of their kinemtatic properties .",
    "accounting for the galactic contribution , the monoceros population was found to have a velocity dispersion of @xmath11km / s . while of similar order to the tidal debris torn from the sagittarius dwarf , this velocity dispersion is quite distinct from the spheroid , thick disk or any known warp or flare . from these velocities , @xcite",
    "deduce that the orbital velocity of the stream of stars is prograde and ( assuming circular orbits ) is @xmath12km / s , [ an erratum to the original result of @xmath13kms / s was presented in @xcite ] , and that the stars appear to be relatively metal - poor @xmath14=-1.6)$ ] .",
    "@xcite conclude by proposing a simple model for the monoceros stream as a disrupting dwarf , orbiting the milky way at a distance of @xmath4kpc ; the dwarf galaxy s stars are undulating above and below the plane of the milky way by @xmath15kpc .",
    "several additional programs have focused upon the monoceros stream  . using m giant star candidates drawn from 2mass ,",
    "@xcite further confirmed the existence of the monoceros stream as a distinct stellar population beyond the edge of the disk of the milky way . with a galactocentric distance of @xmath16kpc",
    ", they find the arc of material possesses an angular extent of at @xmath17 , with the presence of m giants indicating the stellar population of the monoceros stars possesses a higher metallicity than previously estimated @xmath14\\sim0.4\\pm0.3)$ ] .",
    "@xcite extended this work , obtaining velocities of 2mass selected stars over @xmath6 of the monoceros stream . while confirming a velocity dispersion of @xmath9km / s",
    ", these data also indicate the stars in the monoceros stream orbit the galaxy in a prograde fashion , with little eccentricity . while this is somewhat worrisome for the tidally disrupting dwarf galaxy hypothesis , @xcite point out that such features are apparent in numerical simulations of in - plane dwarf accretion@xcite .",
    "furthermore , this study identifies four globular clusters that are spatially and kinematically aligned with the putative stellar stream ; such an alignment argues against a galactic origin for the stream , such as a spiral arm . finally , @xcite noted that five globular clusters aligned with the monoceros stream , as well as @xmath8 outer , old stellar clusters that may also be part of the same population ; these clusters lie in a plane which is significantly tilted @xmath18 to that of the milky way .",
    "the population of globular clusters is reminiscent of the sagittarius dwarf galaxy which has appears to have deposited a similar number of globular clusters into the halo of the milky way , bolstering the argument that the monoceros stream represets a similarly disrupting dwarf galaxy .",
    "the extensive nature of the material strongly suggested that its origin lay in a disrupting system , in an event similar to that of sagittarius , but occurring in the plane of the galaxy .",
    "this , however , was not the only explanation for its origin as it may represent a previously unidentified aspect of galactic structure .",
    "if the disrupting system hypothesis is correct , and its destruction is not yet complete , we should expect to identify some remnant of the original dwarf galaxy .",
    "however , the expected location , observed against the plane of the galaxy , makes the detection of such a remnant difficult .",
    "as with @xcite , @xcite employed 2mass to search for a signature of monoceros stream of stars . pushing the search to @xmath19 , @xcite mapped the density of m - giant stars around the galactic equator .",
    "this reveals a strong asymmetry about the galactic plane which is interpreted as being the monoceros ring of stars snaking around the outskirts of the milky way .",
    "several prominent features are noted , including a strong northern arc and weaker southern arc , both of which extend for more than @xmath6 on the sky ( see figure  [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "intriguingly , @xcite also identified a strong , elliptical overdensity of m - stars at @xmath20 , aligned somewhat with the galactic disk .",
    "the ( heliocentric ) distance to this stellar overdensity is @xmath21kpc , with a major axis is @xmath22kpc . with @xmath23 m - giant stars within @xmath24 of its centre",
    ", this overdensity contains a similar number of m - giants to the sagittarius dwarf galaxy , a system which we know is currently being cannibalised by the milky way .",
    "given that this implies that the mass of the canis major overdensity is @xmath25 , @xcite concluded that it too represents a dwarf galaxy also undergoing tidal disruption , and possibly representing the progenitor of the monoceros stream of stars .",
    "unlike sagittarius , which passes over the poles of the milky way , the identification of the canis major dwarf galaxy ( as this overdensity will now be referred to ) represents the first detection of an accretion occurring within the plane of the galaxy .",
    "@xcite also noted that possibly five globular clusters were associated in phase - space with the canis major dwarf galaxy .",
    "this is a similar number to the globular cluster population currently associated with the sagittarius dwarf galaxy , providing further evidence for the origin of canis major .",
    "furthermore , @xcite noted the phase - space grouping of a number of four open galactic clusters directly associated with the main body of canis major .    in an attempt to understand the observed distribution of m - stars , @xcite also undertook a series of numerical simulations . utilizing detailed models for the mass distribution of the milky way @xcite , these simulations involved following the dynamical dissociation of dwarf galaxies ( modeled as king profiles ) as they orbited the galaxy .",
    "the results of this procedure favoured a dwarf galaxy with an initial mass of @xmath26 , with a orbital period of @xmath27gyrs . while such simulations can reasonably account for the observed distribution of m - stars not only in the body of canis major , but also along the extensive arcs above and below the galactic plane",
    ", the current data does not allow a definitive differentiation between prograde and retrograde orbits .",
    "@xcite , however , point out that the resultant orbits of the debris in such an encounter closely mimic those of stars in the thick disk .",
    "given that the estimated mass of this single dwarf is roughly @xmath28 of the entire thick disk , then the thick disk could be formed via only a few such accretion events .",
    "further observational evidence for the nature of the canis major dwarf came from the study of @xcite who identified the main - sequence and red giant branch populations of canis major in the background to the galactic open clusters ngc2477 , tombaugh 1 and berkeley 33 .",
    "analysis of this population suggested it is somewhat metal - rich @xmath29<0.0)$ ] , with an age of @xmath30gyrs , although an apparent blue plume of stars is taken as evidence of a more recent episode of star formation .",
    "this study also finds a photometric parallax for the main body of canis major of @xmath31kpc , larger than the m - giant study of @xcite , whose smaller distance determination they put down to poorer systematics in the m - giant photometric parallax .",
    "finally , @xcite also suggest that as well as the identified globular cluster population , two old open clusters , am-2 and tombaugh 2 , are possibly associated with the canis major dwarf .    utilizing the second u.s .",
    "naval observatory ccd astrograph catalog ( ucac2 ) , @xcite examined the proper motions of stars in the vicinity of the canis major dwarf galaxy .",
    "cross - identifying m - giant stars drawn from the 2mass catalog , the galactic - longitudinal motion of canis major was found to be @xmath32mas / yr , with no measurable motion in galactic latitude . at a distance of @xmath33kpc",
    ", this corresponds to transverse velocity of @xmath34km / s , with canis major on a prograde orbit about the milky way .",
    "since this value is higher than that predicted by @xcite , drawn from their numerical simulation , it is clear the full three - dimensional velocity of canis major will be required for the detailed numerical modeling of this accretion event .",
    "recently , @xcite further examined the globular cluster population associated with the canis major dwarf galaxy , finding that the age - metallicity relationship for these is distinct from the main globular cluster population of the milky way .",
    "furthermore , these globular clusters are somewhat smaller than expected if they were drawn from the galactic population .",
    "both these lines of evidence add further weight to the possibility that the globular clusters , and canis major itself , were formed elsewhere , were drawn in presumably as the initial orbit decayed by dynamical friction , and represent an on - going accretion event onto the milky way galaxy .",
    "while the tidally disrupting dwarf galaxy is the favoured explanation for the observed overdensity of star in canis major , current observations are not yet completely conclusive , and the possibility that the monoceros ring and canis major dwarf galaxy actually represent some unknown aspect of galactic structure has not been ruled out . hence , several observational programs are underway to address this issue .",
    "the first is an extension of the earlier study by  @xcite , systematically mapping above and below the galactic plane with wide - field camera observations .",
    "this has been completed in the north , using the wide - field camera on the isaac newton telescope ; these data are being analyzed and will be published shortly ( conn et al .",
    "_ in preparation _ ) .",
    "the southern survey , with the wide - field imager at the anglo - australian telescope , is currently underway and will be completed by mid-2004 .",
    "these will provide important probes of the extent of the stellar material , as well as constraining its distance ( via main sequence fitting ) .     a numerical simulation of the demise of the canis major dwarf galaxy .",
    "the top panel presents the view from above the milky way [ with the sun located at @xmath35kpc ] .",
    "the lower panel presents the side - on view of the debris .",
    "the colour coding in both denoted the heliocentric velocity of the stars ( as given in the lower key ) , while the symbols represent data from the int survey and 2mass [ figure 14 from @xcite].,height=451 ]    to augment these studies , 2df observations of the main body of canis major and the extensive stream of stars are being conducted to obtain stellar kinematics , via the calcium triplet , over @xmath6 of the sky . coupled with the spatial data obtained with the wide - field camera surveys",
    ", these data should test the hypotheses that canis major represents a truly disrupting dwarf galaxy , or ( equally interesting ) is a currently unknown aspect of galactic structure .",
    "furthermore , if the dwarf galaxy is confirmed , then these data will provide important constraints to numerical simulations of its orbit and eventual demise .",
    "gfl thanks joss bland - hawthorn for inviting him to the little bay meeting .",
    "the anonymous referee is thanked for their constructive comments .",
    "bellazzini m. , ibata r. , monaco l. , martin n. , irwin m.  j. , lewis g.  f. , 2004 , mnras in press , _ astro - ph/0311119 _ brook c.  b. , kawata d. , gibson b.  k. , flynn c. , 2003 , apj , 585 , l125 crane j.  d. , majewski s.  r. , rocha - pinto h.  j. , frinchaboy p.  m. , skrutskie m.  f. , law d.  r. , 2003 , apj , 594 , l119 dehnen w. , binney j. , 1998 , mnras , 294 , 429 forbes , d.  a. , strader , j. , brodie , j.p .",
    ", 2004 , _ astro - ph/0403136 _ frinchaboy p.  m. , majewski s.  r. , crane j.  d. , reid i.  n. , rocha - pinto h.  j. , phelps r.  l. , patterson r.  j. , mu~ noz r.  r. , 2004 , apj , 602 , l21 helmi a. , navarro j.  f. , meza a. , steinmetz m. , eke v.  r. , 2003 , apj , 592 , l25 helmi a. , white s.  d.  m. , de zeeuw p.  t. , zhao h. , 1999 , natur , 402 , 53 ibata r.  a. , irwin m.  j. , lewis g.  f. , ferguson a.  m.  n. , tanvir n. , 2003 , mnras , 340 , l21 ibata r. , bellazzini , m. , irwin m. , lewis g.  f. , martin , n.  f. , 2004 , mnras ( submitted ) ibata r.  a. , lewis g.  f. , irwin m.  j. , cambr ' esy l. , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 921 ibata r. , lewis g.  f. , irwin m. , totten e. , quinn t. , 2001 , apj , 551 , 294 klypin a. , kravtsov a.  v. , valenzuela o. , prada f. , 1999 , apj , 522 , 82 majewski s.  r. , skrutskie m.  f. , weinberg m.  d. , ostheimer j.  c. , 2003 , apj , 599 , 1082 martin n.  f. , ibata r.  a. , bellazzini m. , irwin m.  j. , lewis g.  f. , dehnen w. , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 12 newberg h.  j.  et al . , 2002 , apj , 569 , 245 rocha - pinto h.  j. , majewski s.  r. , skrutskie m.  f. , crane j.  d. , 2003 , apj , 594 , l115 yanny b.  et al . , 2003 , apj , 588 , 824 yanny , b. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 605 , 575"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent observational evidence suggests that the sagittarius dwarf galaxy represents the only major ongoing accretion event in the galactic halo , accounting for the majority of stellar debris identified there . </S>",
    "<S> this paper summarizes the recent discovery of another potential milky way accretion event , the canis major dwarf galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> this dwarf satellite galaxy is found to lie just below the galactic plane and appears to be on an equatorial orbit . </S>",
    "<S> unlike sagittarius , which is contributing to the galactic halo , the location and eventual demise of canis major suggests that it represents a building block of the thick disk .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxy : structure  galaxy : evolution  galaxies : dwarf </S>"
  ]
}