{
  "article_text": [
    "we report on simultaneous multifrequency observations of the prominent virgo blazars 3c  273 and 3c  279 during cgro cycle 8 . because both blazars are known  sources , which have been detected by the cgro experiments several times before , we proposed for simultaneous cgro ( osse , comptel ) and rxte high - energy observations .",
    "the prime goal was to simultaneously measure their high - energy spectra from about 2.5  kev to 30  mev .",
    "because of the shortage of spark chamber gas , the egret experiment is hardly available anymore and therefore was not requested in the proposals .",
    "after the proposed simultaneous high - energy observations were approved and scheduled , additional simultaneous observations were performed from ground - based observers extending the energy range of the campaigns to lower energies .    in this paper",
    "we report first observational results of the campaigns with emphasis on the x- and  part .",
    "in particular we present the measured x- to  spectra of both sources .",
    "the multifrequency observations were carried out between 1999 january 5 and february 2 .",
    "the observational strategy was that both blazars are within the comptel field - of - view for the whole 4 weeks reaching the optimal sensitivity for the  observations , and osse observes simultaneously each source for 2 weeks .",
    "within these two - week osse periods , three rxte pointings were scheduled for each source covering simultaneously the x- and hard x - ray part of the spectrum and providing information on the x - ray variability . to supplement these high - energy observations both sources",
    "were simultaneously observed in different optical and radio bands . on 1999 january 15 the optical flux of 3c  279 reached a high level which  after some discussion  triggered target - of - opportunity ( too ) observations of this source .",
    "this resulted in a switch - on of egret which led to egret observations of both quasars during roughly the second half of the campaigns . because of the 3c  279 too , the osse 3c  273 observation was stopped after one week , and osse observed 3c  279 again .",
    "these egret and osse too observations of 3c  279 are property of a different cgro proposal and therefore their results are not reported here .",
    "the detailed high - energy observational log is given in table  [ tab1 ] .    .",
    "summary of the satellite observations of both virgo blazars during the campaigns in 1999 .",
    "the observation periods as well as the coverage in energy are given . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "3c  273 is significantly detected in all observed low - energy ( radio , optical ) bands . at high energies",
    "the quasar is significantly detected in x- and hard x - rays by rxte from about 2.5 to @xmath0100  kev , showing a power - law spectrum with a photon index ( e@xmath1 ) @xmath2 of 1.6 .",
    "osse detects the source in the one - week observation at a significance level of @xmath05 .",
    "therefore its spectrum had to be rebinned severely to reach two significant spectral points .",
    "comptel detects the blazar in the sum of the 4-week observation at the @xmath05  level .",
    "however , despite the comptel detection at mev - energies , egret  covering only half of the comptel observation time  does not detect 3c  273 at energies above 100  mev .",
    "the combined  more or less simultaneous  high - energy spectrum of 3c  273 is shown in figure  [ fig1 ] .",
    "the well - known bending ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) at mev - energies is visible .",
    "the most surprising result however , is the non - detection by egret at high - energy , despite the comptel detection at mev - energies .",
    "this requires a strong spectral turnover between 30 and 100  mev , and might hint at different generation mechanisms for the mev and @xmath3100  mev photon populations .",
    "3c  279 is significantly detected at the radio and optical bands , showing strong time variability and flaring activity in the optical . at x",
    "- rays the blazar is significantly observed up to 20  kev by the rxte / pca , and is detected in hard x - rays between 20 and 50  kev by rxte / hexte with a significance of about 5 . the rxte / pca spectrum is well fitted by a single power - law model with an index @xmath2 of 1.6 . at higher energies",
    "the detection significances become marginal .",
    "osse found 3-evidence for the source only at their lower energies ( near 100  kev ) , and comptel  also at the 3  level  only at their upper energies . at energies above 100",
    "mev egret has significantly detected 3c  279 ( [ 3 ] ) , however these data are not reported here .",
    "the measured x- to  spectrum of 3c  279 is given in figure  [ fig2 ] .",
    "it shows that 3c  279 was observed in a bright  state .",
    "the flux at the comptel upper energies is at the same level as measured during the two previous  high states in 1991 and 1996 ( figure  [ fig3 ] ) .",
    "the spectral power - law shape measured from @xmath02.5 to 20  kev can  according to the current state of analysis  be extrapolated up to 30  mev without any obvious breaks or bendings .",
    "this suggests that this part of the spectrum , which is considered to be non - thermal inverse - compton radiation , is emitted by a single emission component or mechanism ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report first observational results of multifrequency campaigns on the prominent virgo blazars 3c  273 and 3c  279 which were carried out in january and february 1999 . both blazars are detected from radio to  energies . </S>",
    "<S> we present the measured x- to  spectra of both sources , and for 3c  279 we compare the 1999 broad - band ( radio to ) spectrum to measured previous ones . </S>"
  ]
}