{
  "article_text": [
    "rich clusters of galaxies are the most suitable laboratories to study how galaxy environments affect galaxy properties .",
    "the pioneering work by butcher & oemler ( 1978 , 1984 ) has demonstrated that distant clusters contain much higher fraction of blue galaxies than nearby clusters , though it has been questioned by @xcite .",
    "it has been also found that galaxy morphology is a function of its environment @xcite .",
    "the most recent advances have been made with the _ hubble space telescope _ , which allows the morphology of distant galaxies to be directly compared with the properties of their nearby counterparts .",
    "@xcite and @xcite have suggested that the predominant evolutionary effects are that the distant clusters have a substantial deficit of s0 systems compared with nearby clusters , and at lower luminosities they contain substantial sc - sd spirals , compared with the large population of dwarf spheroidals in present - day clusters , while it has also been questioned by @xcite . on the other hand , some recent studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) have focused on observed trends in star formation rate ( sfr ) and morphology as a function of position within a cluster .",
    "these studies have shown that there is smooth transition from a blue , disk - dominated population of galaxies in the outskirts of clusters to a red , bulge - dominated population in the cluster cores .",
    "many authors have suggested that the predominance of red , early - type galaxies in local clusters is the result of mechanisms that suppress star formation in high density environments .",
    "this suppression makes galaxies within cluster cores redder and leads to a transformation of galaxy morphology .",
    "comparison between the galaxy populations of local and distant clusters or those in cluster cores and outskirts provides a strong evidence for this scenario .",
    "this leads to a naive conclusion that the primary effect of the cluster environment is to transform luminous spiral galaxies into s0 galaxies through the suppression of their star formation .",
    "several mechanisms that may suppress the star formation and transform one morphological type into another have been proposed .",
    "interactions between galaxies are one possible process to promote morphological transformation .",
    "@xmath2-body simulations confirmed that major mergers between disk galaxies produce galaxies resembling ellipticals as merger remnants ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) and that accretion of small satellites onto their host spiral lead the morphology of the host spiral to s0 type @xcite .",
    "the galaxy mergers trigger the _ starburst _ , therefore the cold gas contained in these galaxies are exhausted in a very short time .",
    "these processes then cause the truncation of star formation .",
    "although the bulge formation scenario by major mergers gives an excellent explanation both for colors @xcite and distribution of cluster ellipticals @xcite , the observed s0 population can not be reproduced only by major mergers @xcite .",
    "in addition , the galaxy mergers are predominant effect before massive cluster formation , because , in clusters , the relative velocity of galaxies is too high for such mergers to be frequent @xcite .",
    "therefore the galaxy merger is not promising as a key mechanism behind the butcher - oemler effect .",
    "@xcite examined the effects of rapid gravitational encounters between galaxies .",
    "this mechanism has been called _ galaxy harassment _ and is highly effective at transforming fainter sc - sd galaxies to dsphs .",
    "while the galaxy harassment can account for the observed evolution of faint galaxies in clusters , the concentrated potentials of luminous sa - sb galaxies help to maintain their stability , then the bulge - to - disk luminosity ratios ( @xmath3s ) of these galaxies are hardly changed only by the galaxy harassment @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , if the truncation of star formation in these galaxies takes place , these galaxies can become the objects that are similar to s0 s , because the disks of sa - sb galaxies are substantially thickened and the spiral features are vanished by the harassment .",
    "it should be noted that correlation between @xmath3 and hubble type has significant scatter @xcite and there is no guarantee that this relation is applicable to cluster galaxies .",
    "accordingly we adopt the classification based on @xmath3 to observed galaxies as well as to our model galaxies .",
    "the second mechanism is the truncation of star formation through the removal of the diffuse hot gas reservoir that is confined in galactic dark halos and surrounds galaxies @xcite . in clusters ,",
    "any hot diffuse material originally trapped in the potentials of the galactic halos becomes part of the overall intracluster medium ( icm ) . a galaxy whose hot gas reservoir is removed slowly exhausts its cold gas in a few gigayears ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , because there is no supply of the fresh gas from the surrounding hot gas .",
    "this process is an important ingredient in the success of semi - analytic ( sa ) models , which have been shown to reproduce observed global properties of cluster galaxies such as the morphological composition and the blue galaxy fraction ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "although such slow truncation after the infall into larger virialized halos explains the observed sfr gradients in clusters @xcite and the color evolution of cluster galaxies @xcite , the lack of the population of intermediate @xmath3 can not be solved even by including this mechanism into the galaxy formation model @xcite .",
    "the other mechanism is ram pressure stripping ( rps ) of the cold gas from galactic disks @xcite .",
    "as a galaxy orbits through a cluster , it feels ram pressure ( rp ) from the icm .",
    "when the rp is greater than the binding force , the cold gas will be stripped in @xmath5 yr @xcite .",
    "@xcite suggested that the rps increases @xmath3 of the milky way - like galaxies owing to the rapid suppression of the star formation in the disk component , and consequently sb galaxies change their morphology into s0 galaxies by assuming static cluster potentials and radially infalling galaxies .    in this paper",
    "we investigate how these mechanisms affect colors and morphologies of cluster galaxies with a special interest in the effects of the rps and the minor mergers that have not been well studied in cosmological context . here",
    "we do not attempt to model the galaxy harassment , because we only treat bright galaxies ( @xmath0 ) and the galaxy harassment probably do not affect strongly for such bright galaxies as far as we classify the galaxies by @xmath3 as we mentioned previously .    for this purpose ,",
    "the fully numerical simulations are still too expensive and have a lot of difficulty in handling _",
    "subgrid _ physics , e.g. gas cooling , star formation , supernova feedback , chemical evolution and so on , though recent work is beginning to achieve some notable successes for the distribution of galaxy populations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "alternative method to study the evolution of galaxy population is the sa modeling of galaxy formation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which follows the collapse and merging of dark halos by using a probabilistic method on the mass distribution based upon an extension of the press - schechter formalism @xcite and in which the subgrid physics is incorporated with the merging histories of dark matter halos assuming simple scaling laws .    as a natural expansion of this approach ,",
    "hybrid methods of cosmological @xmath2-body simulations and the phenomenological model of galaxy formation used in the sa techniques have been developed @xcite . in order to obtain the spatial and velocity distribution of galaxies and to treat the mergers between galaxies in cluster environment , several authors",
    "have adapted the refinements of hybrid methods , which traces the merging histories of substructures within virialized halos @xcite .",
    "since this method enables us to calculate orbits of galaxies in clusters , we can incorporate the rps in our model as well as merging of substructure halos .",
    "we compare our simulated cluster at @xmath6 to an observed sample that is constructed by superposing 7 low redshift cnoc1 @xcite clusters ( @xmath7 ) .",
    "to compare our results with the observations , we rescale our simulated cluster and the cnoc1 clusters by @xmath8 which is the radius of the sphere centered on the cluster center and whose density is 200 times the critical density of the universe at a given redshift .    in  2 , we describe an outline of the galaxy formation model used here and we show the characteristics of our model in  3 .",
    "results on the luminosity functions , star formation gradients , color gradients , and morphological gradients are presented in  4 .",
    "these results are discussed in  5 .",
    "we examine the evolution of cluster galaxies in a @xmath1cdm universe ( @xmath9 , @xmath10 , @xmath11 km s@xmath12 mpc@xmath13 , @xmath14 ) .",
    "the baryon density , @xmath15 , is set to @xmath16 ( suzuki , yoshii , & beers 2000 ) .",
    "note that a recent measurement of the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background suggests a slight higher value , @xmath17 @xcite .",
    "the changing of @xmath15 affects only the normalization of parameters in our sa model and we confirmed that it does not affect our conclusion .",
    "thus , we here prefer using @xmath18 that was adopted in our previous paper @xcite .",
    "the outline of the procedures of galaxy formation is as follows . at first",
    ", the merging paths of dark halos are realized by a cosmological @xmath2-body simulation . at this stage , it is determined for each halo whether it is a central halo of its virialized host halo or it is a substructure of its host .",
    "next , in each merging path , evolution of the baryonic components , namely , gas cooling , star formation , supernova feedback , and chemical evolution , are calculated based on the sa galaxy formation model .",
    "the detail of our sa model will be given in ",
    "[ samodel ] .",
    "we refer to a system consisting of the stars and cold gas as a _",
    "galaxy_. when two or more galactic halos merge together , we estimate merging time - scale of the galaxies in the new common halo based on dynamical friction time - scale . as merging of galaxies occurs , we change the morphology of the merger remnant according to the type of the merger .",
    "finally , we calculate the luminosity and color of each galaxy based on the stellar populations that compose the galaxy .",
    "we first describe two simulations used in this paper and their specific purpose .",
    "these simulations are the same as those by okamoto & habe ( 1999 , 2000 ) except for the background cosmology .    for a main simulation",
    ", we adopt the constrained random field method to generate the initial density field in which a rich cluster is formed at the center of a simulation sphere of radius 22.5 @xmath19 mpc @xcite .",
    "the constraint that we impose is the 3 @xmath20 peak with the 8 mpc gaussian smoothed density field at the center of the simulation sphere .",
    "we refer this simulation as the _ cluster simulation_.    another simulation represents an average piece of the universe corresponding to the _ field _ environment within a sphere of radius 20 @xmath19 mpc without any constraints .",
    "we use this simulation to normalize the parameters in our galaxy formation models and to compare the galaxy population to that in the cluster simulation .",
    "although the size of this simulation seems to be somewhat small , @xcite obtained a reasonable halo mass function from a simulation sphere of radius @xmath21 mpc .",
    "we have confirmed that this simulation produces a reasonable mass function and the mass of the most massive halo at @xmath22 is sufficiently small ( @xmath23 ) as a sample of low - density environment .    to get sufficient resolution with relatively small number of particles we use a multimass initial condition for each simulation . in the field simulation",
    ", we put the high resolution particles in the sphere of radius 10 @xmath19 mpc and in the remaining region we put the low resolution particles as boundary particles . on the other hand",
    ", we adopt the resimulation technique for the cluster simulation @xcite .",
    "that is , first , only long - wavelength components are used for the realization of the initial perturbations in the simulation sphere using @xmath24 particles , and then we perform a simulation with these low resolution particles . after this procedure , we tag the particles that are inside the sphere of radius 3 @xmath19 mpc centered on the cluster center at @xmath22 .",
    "next we go back to the initial redshift , and then we divide the tagged particles according to the density perturbations that is produced by additional shorter wavelength components . as a result , the number of the high resolution particles becomes @xmath25 .",
    "we adopt the same mass and softening length of a high resolution particle in each simulation .",
    "our analyses are operated only for these high resolution particles .",
    "the overall parameters and mass of the most massive virialized object in each simulation at @xmath22 are listed in table  [ tbl-1 ] .",
    "the method to create merging history trees of dark halos is basically the same as @xcite , while we make some improvement .    to construct the merger trees we identify virialized halos and their substructures at 34 redshifts during @xmath26 and @xmath22",
    "this procedure is as follows .    at each time - step , we calculate density field by smoothing each particle with neighboring 64 particles using a similar method to the smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) . at a given redshift ,",
    "particles with local densities greater than one - third of the virial density at that redshift are tagged .",
    "we then operate the friends - of - friends ( fof ) grouping algorithm @xcite only on the tagged particles , otherwise the fof is likely to find strangely - shaped halos like strings in low density regions @xcite .",
    "the linking length is defined as @xmath27 , where @xmath28 is the mean particle separation , and the parameter @xmath29 is a function of redshift .",
    "its value is given by @xmath30 where @xmath31 is the virial density calculated by the spherical collapse model at a given redshift and @xmath32 is the background density of the universe . note that eq .",
    "( [ link ] ) implies density of a halo edge is half of the virial density that well exceeds the criterion used to tag the particles .",
    "this equation gives @xmath33 when we assume 200 as the virial overdensity , which is often used in the case of the critical density universe .",
    "when the fof links more than 10 tagged particles , we identify this linked particle group as a virialized object .",
    "we call the halos found by this procedure _ fof - halos_.    next , we divide these fof - halos into substructures according to their density peaks . for this purpose , we use skid algorithm @xcite as a substructure finder . the particles contained in the fof - halos are moved along the density gradients to the local density maxima .",
    "at each density peak , the localized particles are grouped .",
    "after we remove the gravitationally unbound particles in each group , we identify the groups that contain more than 10 particles as substructures .",
    "we call these groups _ skid - halos_. the skid - halo that contains the most bound particle of its host fof - halo is defined as a central skid - halo and its properties are replaced by those of the host fof - halo . in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] , we show the density map of the cluster at @xmath22 and the particles contained in the fof - halos and the skid - halos .",
    "the merger tree of each skid - halo is constructed by the method described by @xcite .",
    "note that we trace halo - stripped galaxies as well as the skid - halos using the most bound particle in a skid - halo as a tracer particle ( see okamoto & habe 1999 , 2000 ) .",
    "since cooling is not allowed in substructure halos ( i.e. non - central skid - halos ) in our model as we will describe in  [ hotstrip ] , the non - central skid - halos that do not have any progenitors at previous time - step can not contain either stellar or cold gas components .",
    "thus , we remove these useless skid - halos from our merger trees . as a result , a newly - formed skid - halo , i.e. a skid - halo that has no progenitor at previous time - step ,",
    "is always born as a central skid - halo .",
    "the following prescriptions are almost the same as the model in @xcite .    for simplicity , a dark halo is modeled as a truncated isothermal sphere whose mass and circular velocity are taken from the @xmath2-body data .",
    "if a dark matter halo has no progenitor halos , the mass fraction of the gas is given by @xmath34 .",
    "when a dark matter halo collapses , the gas in the halo is shock - heated to the virial temperature of the halo .",
    "we refer to this heated gas as _ hot gas_. the gas in dense region of the halo is cooled by efficient radiative cooling .",
    "we dub this cooled gas _",
    "cold gas_. we estimate the amount of the gas cooled during a time - step using the metallicity - dependent cooling function by @xcite . in order to avoid the formation of",
    "unphysically large galaxies , the above cooling process is applied only to halos with circular velocities smaller than @xmath35 .",
    "when we adopt the same value of @xmath35 for the field and cluster simulations , our simulations produce too many / few bright galaxies in the field / cluster simulation .",
    "although this discrepancy is interesting , our simulations are too small to argue the bright end of luminosity functions and it is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "moreover the physical meaning of @xmath35 is quite unclear .",
    "therefore we choose the values of @xmath35 to reproduce the observed number of bright galaxies ( @xmath0 ) .",
    "we adopt @xmath36 km s@xmath12 and 500 km s@xmath12 for the filed and cluster simulations , respectively .",
    "stars are formed from the cold gas at a rate of @xmath37 , where @xmath38 is the mass of the cold gas and @xmath39 is the star formation time - scale in the disk .",
    "it means that the cold gas in the disk is consumed in about @xmath39 if there is not any supply of the fresh gas .",
    "when the star formation time - scale is a function of redshift as in the case of @xmath40 , where @xmath41 is the dynamical time of a galaxy , the observed properties of the high redshift galaxies can not be reproduced @xcite .",
    "we then adopt the description by @xcite , @xmath42 where @xmath43 and @xmath44 are free parameters .",
    "these free parameters are fixed by matching the observed mass fraction of the cold gas in neutral form in the disks of spiral galaxies .    in our model ,",
    "stars with masses larger than 10 @xmath45 explode as type ii supernovae ( sne ) and heat up the surrounding cold gas .",
    "this sn feedback reheats the cold gas to the hot phase at a rate of @xmath46 , where the time - scale of reheating is given by @xmath47 where @xmath48 and @xmath49 are free parameters .",
    "although they are to be determined by matching the local luminosity function of galaxies , we set @xmath49 to 2.0 because changing this value has a minimal effect on the results if we determine other parameters to reproduce observations of local galaxies .",
    "chemical evolution is treated in almost the same way as described in @xcite .",
    "the instantaneous recycling approximation is adopted .",
    "we assume that the initially gas has a primordial composition ( zero metallicity ) .",
    "then the gas is polluted by typeii sne .",
    "the amount of metals ejected from sne is characterized by @xmath50 , which is heavy element yield for each generation of stars .",
    "the value is defined by matching the color - magnitude relation ( cmr ) of the local cluster ellipticals and we adopt @xmath51 in this paper . all the ejecta is incorporated with the cold gas , while 30 % of the ejecta was assumed to be directly expelled to the hot gas in @xcite .",
    "the gas fraction returned by evolved stars is 0.25 in this paper .",
    "simultaneously , the sne heat up the surrounding cold gas , and then metals contained in the cold gas are also returned to the hot gas .",
    "the returned metals affects cooling rate of the hot gas and the cooling transfers the metals from the hot gas to the cold gas .    before we describe our merging procedure ,",
    "let us explain our galaxy hierarchy . as we mentioned before ,",
    "fof - halos represent virialized dark halos .",
    "each fof - halo hosts one central skid - halo along with a number of non - central skid - halos that represent substructures of the fof - halo .",
    "each skid - halo hosts one central galaxy along with a number of satellite galaxies . as we will dscribe ",
    "[ hotstrip ] , only the central galaxy in the central skid - halo can be supplied with the fresh cold gas by radiative cooling .",
    "the merging between skid - halos are directly obtained from @xmath2-body simulations .",
    "we here consider the merging between galaxies within a skid - halo .    when two or more skid - halos have merged , we identify a central galaxy of the largest progenitor as a central galaxy of the new common skid - halo .",
    "other galaxies are regarded as satellite galaxies . for simplicity , we only take account of the merging between a satellite galaxy and the central galaxy .",
    "a satellite galaxy falls into the central galaxy in dynamical friction time - scale , @xmath52 where @xmath53 and @xmath54 are the radius and circular velocity of the new common halo , respectively , @xmath55 is the mass of the satellite , and @xmath56 is the coulomb logarithm . if the satellite has a halo at previous time - step , @xmath55 is defined as the mass of the skid - halo to which the satellite belongs as the central galaxy at the previous time - step .",
    "since we trace halo - stripped galaxies as well , the mass composed by stars and cold gas is used as @xmath55 when the satellite does not have a halo at previous time - step .",
    "the function @xmath57 describes the dependence of the orbital decay on the eccentricity of the orbit , expressed in terms of @xmath58 , where @xmath59 is the angular momentum of a circular orbit with the same energy as the satellite .",
    "this function is well approximated by @xmath60 , for @xmath61 @xcite .",
    "@xmath62 is a constant with value @xmath63 . for @xmath57",
    ", we adopt the average value , @xmath64 , computed by @xcite . when a satellite galaxy merges with a central galaxy and the mass ratio of the satellite to the central galaxy is larger than @xmath65 , we regard this merger as a major merger , and then all stars of the satellite and disk stars of the central galaxy are incorporated with the bulge of the central galaxy . at the same time",
    ", cold gas contained in both galaxies is consumed to form bulge stars by starburst with the same feedback law as in the disk star formation .",
    "if the mass ratio does not exceed the value of the parameter , @xmath66 , the merger is classified as minor .",
    "when we adopt the standard prescription , in the case of the minor merger , the disk of the central galaxy is preserved , no starburst takes place , and the stars from the satellites are added to the bulge of the central galaxy . in this paper",
    "we also consider the case that a minor merger triggers small starburst because numerical experiments of merging galaxies have suggested that starburst is induced by a minor merger as well as a major merger @xcite .",
    "we dub this process _ minor burst _ and will give the detailed prescription in  [ minib ] .    in this paper",
    ", we adopt @xmath67 that was used for the low density universe in @xcite .",
    "we confirmed that our results hardly depend on @xmath65 , since our morphological classification based on @xmath3 is normalized to reproduce the observed morphological composition in the field .",
    "the absolute luminosities and colors of individual galaxies are calculated using a population synthesis model by @xcite .",
    "the initial stellar mass function ( imf ) that we adopt is the power - law imf of salpeter form with lower and upper mass limits of 0.1 and 60 @xmath45 , respectively .",
    "as we stated above , we divided the stellar component into disk and bulge components . in the previous sa studies , morphology of each galaxies",
    "have been determined by the @xmath68-band @xmath3 .",
    "@xcite showed that the hubble types @xmath69 of galaxies correlated with @xmath3 by following relation , @xmath70 where @xmath71 . in this paper",
    "we use this relation to assign the hubble type to our model galaxies .",
    "unfortunately this relation has significant scatter @xcite , therefore we prefer direct comparison of @xmath3s of the model galaxies with those of the observed galaxies as we will describe in  [ morph - grad ] .",
    "the effect of minor mergers was studied in @xcite using sph simulations including star formation . in the case of a merger between a milky way - sized disk galaxy and a satellite with total mass equal to 10% of the central disk galaxy mass ,",
    "the bar instability leads a gas fueling to the galactic center , and then 50 % of the total gas is consumed in the starburst .",
    "if the central galaxy has a bulge , the bulge stabilizes the disk and prevents the gas fueling .",
    "when the bulge - to - disk mass ratio is larger than 1/3 , the starburst becomes negligible .",
    "@xcite modeled this process by assuming that the fraction of cold gas consumed by the starburst is a function of the merging mass ratio .",
    "however , since only limited parameter range has been explored , how the starburst efficiency depends on the mass ratio is highly unknown .",
    "moreover , the starburst during a violent merger and the starburst triggered by the bar instability should be treated separate way .",
    "then , we model the minor burst by assuming that the fraction , @xmath72 , of the cold gas is consumed by the minor burst when the merger mass ratio is between @xmath73 and @xmath65 for simplicity . in the case of the minor burst ,",
    "the stellar disk of the central galaxy is preserved .",
    "when the bulge - to - disk mass ratio of the central galaxy is larger than 1/3 , the minor burst does not take place according to @xcite .",
    "we set these two parameters to reproduce the morphology - radius relation ( @xmath74 and @xmath75 ) , as we will show in  [ morph - grad ] .",
    "note that if we adopt @xmath76 , it leads very similar results to the model without the minor burst and with small @xmath65 ( @xmath77 ) in clusters , because most of gas is consumed by the mergers at high redshifts in any case .",
    "the model with small @xmath66 only increases the bulge - dominated fraction and does not increase the intermediate @xmath3 fraction @xcite .",
    "we include the stripping of diffuse hot gas from galactic halos in our modeling as follows .",
    "when a fof - halo contains more than two skid - halos , we identify the central skid - halo and properties of this central skid - halo are replaced with those of the host fof - halo as we mentioned in  [ mergertree ] .",
    "the hot gas contained in the non - central skid - halos are simply added to the hot gas reservoir of the host fof - halo ( i.e. the central skid - halo ) , and so , only the central galaxy in the central skid - halo can be supplied with the fresh cold gas by radiative cooling .",
    "this process has already been included in the previous sa studies and led significant success ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the rps of cold disk gas is also a new ingredient of our model . by following simple method",
    ", we estimate stripping effects of cold gas by rp from an icm .    in order to estimate the strength of the rp",
    ", we need to know orbits of cluster galaxies .",
    "for this purpose , we assume that the cluster has a nfw - type of density distribution @xcite , and then we fit the density profile of the main cluster ( i.e. the most massive virialized object ) at each time - step of the merging history by the nfw profile , @xmath78 where @xmath79 and @xmath80 are fitting parameters .",
    "once we fit the density profile of a cluster , we can calculate the potential energy as a function of the distance from the cluster center , @xmath81 then we calculate the orbits of the galaxies within @xmath82 from the center of the main cluster using their positions and relative velocities to the cluster .",
    "although gradual removal is preferable , we here consider only instantaneous stripping as a maximal effect because we have to output data with a quite small time - step to achieve the gradual removal of gas and such a treatment is not practical .",
    "thus , the rp is estimated at pericentric positions for outgoing galaxies and at present positions for ingoing galaxies .",
    "this treatment avoids too early stripping for the ingoing galaxies that do not pass the pericentric positions during the time - step .",
    "the rp from the icm is estimated as follows at the stripping positions , @xmath83 where @xmath84 is the density of the icm and @xmath85 is the velocity of a galaxy relative to the icm .",
    "we suppose that the icm distributes parallel to the dark matter for simplicity .",
    "the density of the icm is obtained as @xmath86 , where @xmath87 is taken from the nfw fit .",
    "the hot gas fraction in the main halo at @xmath88 is @xmath89 , however using @xmath90 as @xmath84 makes no visible difference .",
    "thus , we assume the hot gas fraction is unity for simplicity .",
    "we also attempted the icm distribution that has the coma - like core with the core density , @xmath91 g @xmath92 @xcite by putting the ceiling to the density distribution . with the above choice of the core density , the core radius becomes @xmath93 kpc ( @xmath94 ) at @xmath6 .",
    "this radius is much smaller than the radius at which the effect of the rps becomes significant as we will show in  [ sfrg ] , and then we can not find any difference in the results from the coreless distribution . therefore we show only the results in the case of the icm distribution parallelized to dark matter .    for the cold gas ,",
    "the restoring force per unit area due to the gravity of the galactic disk is given by    @xmath95    where @xmath96 is surface density of the stellar disk and @xmath97 is that of the cold gas @xcite .",
    "we calculate @xmath96 as @xmath98 , where @xmath99 is an effective radius of the disk assuming that the effective radius is identical to the half - mass radius of the disk .",
    "the effective radius is given by matching the observed luminosity - radius relation of spiral galaxies ( see  [ param ] ) .",
    "assuming @xmath100 , the surface density of the cold gas is given by @xmath101 .",
    "since we consider the maximal effect of the rps , we suppose that all cold gas in a disk is stripped when @xmath102 . the stripped cold gas is mixed with the hot gas of the host fof - halo .",
    "in this paper we investigate the following four baseline models and their combinations to clarify effect of each process .    as the standard prescription of sa , we consider the model without either the rps or the minor burst . by this model",
    "we define a reference parameter so that this model reproduces the properties of the local galaxies . the model with the reference parameter set",
    "is called the _ standard _ model .",
    "when no fresh cold gas is supplied , the cold gas in a galaxy is exhausted by the star formation and then the star formation is truncated . since this truncation time - scale is determined by the star formation time - scale , @xmath39 , we also consider the model with longer star formation time - scale than the standard model .",
    "the model with the star formation time - scale that is four times as long as the standard one is referred as the _ low sfr _ model .",
    "the model with the minor burst and the model with the rps are called the _ minor burst _ model and the _ rps _ model , respectively . in these models ,",
    "the reference parameter set is used .",
    "all models are studied in both the cluster and field simulations except for the rps model that is unimportant in the field .",
    "thus , the corresponding model to the cluster standard and the rps models in the field is the field standard model .",
    "when we compare the cluster simulation to the field simulation , we always use the corresponding field model , for example the minor burst model in the field for the minor burst model in the cluster and the low sfr model in the field for the low sfr + rps model in the cluster .",
    "these models are simply dubbed the _ field _ models .      in this subsection",
    "we show characteristics of our models and how each process affects the properties of the local field galaxies .",
    "the values of the parameters used in the standard model are listed in table  [ tbl-2 ] .    in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] we show the model @xmath68-band luminosity functions in the field at @xmath22 and the observed one taken from apm @xcite , esp @xcite , ukst @xcite , and 2df @xcite . since the simulation volume for the field is too small , the brightest bin in the standard model contains only two galaxies .",
    "therefore we do not attempt to reproduce the bright end of the field luminosity function in this paper .",
    "apart from the bright end , our luminosity functions are smaller at the intermediate luminosity range than those in the observations and their slopes at faint - ends are steeper than observed slopes",
    ". this difference may cancel out if random collisions between satellite galaxies ( in substructure halos ) are considered @xcite or if we use higher resolution that enables us to identify dark halos of smaller satellite galaxies @xcite .",
    "it is found that the minor burst hardly affects the galaxy luminosity function at least in the field .",
    "the luminosity functions in the standard and minor burst models almost overlap .",
    "the effect of the star formation time - scale is also small as shown in @xcite .",
    "although a model luminosity function is very sensitive to the choice of the feedback parameters ( @xmath103 ) and the circular velocity above which the cooling is stopped ( @xmath35 ) , we note that the shape of the luminosity function does not have particular importance for our results .",
    "the key observational constraints in this paper are the number of bright galaxies ( @xmath0 ) , the cold gas mass fraction in a late type galaxy , and the disk size .",
    "the number of bright galaxies are controlled by @xmath35 , and latter two are used to specify our model parameters as described below .",
    "when examining the effects of gas stripping , one of the most important quantities is the cold gas fraction in galaxies that reside in the environment where the stripping effects are negligible .",
    "the cold gas content of galaxies are strongly affected by the star formation parameters , @xmath43 and @xmath44 @xcite . in the middle panel of fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] we show the cold hydrogen fraction of the spiral and irregulars in the field models .",
    "the observational data are taken from the observation by @xcite , which come from a complete sample of the galaxies with morphological type @xmath104 .",
    "we classify our galaxy according to eq .",
    "( [ morphology ] ) and choose the galaxy with @xmath104 .",
    "it is found that the models with the reference parameter set reproduce the observation well .",
    "there is no difference between the standard model and the minor burst model again .",
    "the fraction in the low sfr model is much larger than that in the standard model and the observation as expected .",
    "another important quantity when we argue the rps is the size of a disk that is used to calculate the surface density of the disk .",
    "we assume that the disk size is proportional to the virial radius of its host halo . in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] we show the case that @xmath99 is 5 % of the virial radius .",
    "we also show the observed best - fit relation given by @xcite for the data in @xcite . it is found that our model gives a good agreement with the observed relation .",
    "one important conclusion in this subsection is that the minor burst hardly affects the properties of the field galaxies with our values of @xmath73 and @xmath72 at least at @xmath22 .",
    "before we investigate the distribution of galaxy population , it is worthwhile looking over global properties of our cluster galaxies .    in fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] , we show @xmath68-band luminosity functions of cluster galaxies in the standard , low sfr , and minor burst models and their combination with the rps at @xmath22 .",
    "we also show the observed luminosity function in the virgo cluster @xcite .",
    "all models broadly agree with the observation .",
    "the luminosity function in the low sfr model is always larger than those in other models because @xmath68-band luminosity reflects recent star formation .",
    "the rps affects only the low sfr model significantly , especially at the faint end , because the galaxies in this model have more cold gas than those in the models with the standard star formation time - scale and the cold gas in the faint galaxies are easily stripped .    to see effects of truncation of star formation on colors of galaxies , in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] we show cmrs for all types of galaxies in the standard field model and galaxies within cluster cores ( @xmath105 mpc ) in the standard , rps , minor burst , low sfr and low sfr + rps models",
    ". we do not show the minor burst + rps model because it is quite similar to the rps model .",
    "here we classify the galaxies with @xmath106 according to eq .",
    "( [ morphology ] ) as early - type galaxies ( diamonds ) and others as late - type galaxies ( pluses ) .",
    "the observed cmr for the coma ellipticals is indicated by the solid lines @xcite , which is applied aperture correction @xcite . in the models with the proper star formation time - scale ( standard , rps , and minor burst ) , the blue population seen in the field model",
    "is vanished , and then the galaxies distribute within @xmath107 mag from the cmr for the observed cluster ellipticals as observed in the coma cluster @xcite .",
    "this is caused by the hot gas stripping in the standard model .",
    "the earlier formation epochs of galactic halos in the cluster environment may not be important for this because the late - type galaxies in the low sfr model have significantly bluer colors than the standard model .",
    "on the other hand , the cmrs for early - type galaxies are quite similar in all models , even in the field .",
    "it suggests that the main star formation truncation mechanism for the early - type galaxies is the starburst caused by the major merger .",
    "since the star formation is sufficiently suppressed in the standard model , the significant difference by the rps is only seen between the low sfr model and the low sfr + rps model . however , even in the low sfr + rps model , there are a lot of too blue galaxies . thus we conclude that the most important star formation truncation mechanism for the disk - dominated galaxies in cluster cores is the hot gas stripping .",
    "we can not see any significant effect by the minor burst on the cmr .",
    "recently , many authors have analyzed radial trends in the sfr @xcite of galaxies in the cnoc1 sample @xcite .",
    "here we investigate what mechanism is responsible for the sfr gradient with the special interests in the effect of the rps .    in fig .",
    "[ fig5 ] we show median sfrs for observations and our models as a function of projected radius . the observed sfr distribution taken from @xcite",
    "is indicated by diamonds .",
    "the galaxies brighter than @xmath108 are selected assuming the same cosmology as our simulations . in this figure",
    "we show the low redshift sample of @xcite .",
    "the data were constructed by superposing 7 cnoc1 clusters at the redshift range between @xmath7 .",
    "hereafter , we refer this superposing sample as the _ cnoc sample _ in this paper . the details are given in @xcite and references therein .",
    "we show relative sfrs , which are normalized by the field median value obtained from the same redshift range , because the observed sfrs determined by @xmath109 have a lot of uncertainties .",
    "both for the observational and simulation data , we exclude the brightest cluster galaxies because they often have quite different properties from other cluster galaxies .",
    "the standard , low sfr , and minor burst models are represented in the top , middle , and bottom panels , respectively .",
    "corresponding rps models are also shown in each panel .    except for the low sfr model ,",
    "all our models are broadly consistent with the observation .",
    "as expected , the low sfr model has much closer sfr to the field sfr than other models .",
    "if we adopt the star formation time - scale that reproduces the observed amount of the cold gas in the field galaxies , the difference by the rps is small compared with the observational errors .",
    "while it is interesting that the effect of the rps can be seen even at @xmath110 , it should not be overinterpreted when comparing with observations because the simulated region by the high resolution particles is spherical and then the depth of the line of sight at outermost bin through the high resolution region is quite thin . as a result ,",
    "in our simulation the number of galaxies at the outer regions of the cluster becomes small and the field contamination is substantially underestimated . for direct comparison with the observations at large radii ,",
    "we need larger simulations .",
    "we confirm that the minor burst hardly affects the sfr distribution .",
    "color of a galaxy reflects sfr of the galaxy and it is a more reliable observable than the sfr .",
    "it has been known that galaxies in inner regions of clusters are redder than those in outer regions @xcite .",
    "recent observations have confirmed the existence of the color gradients , and besides , it continues to large radii beyond the virial radii ( @xmath111 ) @xcite .    in fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] we show the @xmath112 colors of the cluster galaxies as a function of the projected radius at @xmath6 . as the observational counterpart , we use the same sample that we used for the sfr gradients .",
    "thus , we use the galaxies brighter than @xmath108 again . the median color of field galaxies is shown by dotted lines .    for the standard and minor burst models , effect of",
    "the rps is more significant at large radii , because , in the central part , the star formation is strongly suppressed by the stripping of the hot gas , regardless of the rps .",
    "although it is difficult to say if the models with the rps show better agreement with the observation because our models are less contaminated by field population as we mentioned previously , the standard / rps model seems to show too steep / flat gradient compared with the observation .",
    "it may suggest that the rps somewhat affects the color gradients observed in clusters . on the other hand , for the low sfr model , the suppression of the star formation by the stripping of the hot gas is quite weak and the cluster galaxies have similar colors to the field sample in this model .",
    "then the suppression of the star formation is dominated by the rps in the low sfr + rps model .",
    "it is found that the effect of the rps is effective at @xmath113 .    while the minor burst makes galaxies slightly redder than the standard model , the models with and without the minor burst still produces very similar results .",
    "morphologies of cluster galaxies have a strong dependence on their environments and redshifts . here",
    "we investigate how each process affects the morphologies of the model galaxies as functions of projected radius and redshift .",
    "recently , some authors have studied the morphology - density or morphology - radius relations by using hybrid method of @xmath2-body simulations and sa models @xcite .",
    "okamoto & nagashima and diaferio et al . concluded that the morphology evolution only by major mergers can not explain the s0 or intermediate @xmath3 population in clusters and additional processes are required to understand this population . while springel et al .",
    "seemed to reproduce the observational data of @xcite , they adopted wider @xmath3 range for s0 s ( @xmath114 ) than the standard classification ( @xmath115 ) .",
    "the small threshold value between spirals and s0 s and wider range of @xmath3 may imply necessity of the additional processes .",
    "one possible process is the rps of cold gas from a galactic disk @xcite . according to fujita & nagashima , at a central part of a cluster ,",
    "the sfr of the disk component rapidly drops owing to the rps , and then the galaxy becomes red and the disk becomes dark .",
    "they suggested that a sb galaxy is turned into a s0 galaxy as a result of the rps .",
    "another possibility is the minor merger induced bulge formation .",
    "@xcite showed that gas supply to a galaxy center by a minor merger triggers a star burst , and then the galaxy evolves toward the early - type gradually .",
    "we here examine how these processes affect the morphologies of cluster galaxies by comparing our galaxy populations in the minor burst and rps models with those in the standard model and the cnoc sample .",
    "since we do not have any information about galaxy morphology in our models except for @xmath3 , we classify the galaxies based on their @xmath3s both in our models and the cnoc sample . according to @xcite ,",
    "we classify galaxies into three classes : a bulge - dominated class , a disk - dominated class , and an intermediate class . in the cnoc sample , @xcite have split the galaxy population based on the @xmath116-band @xmath3 , and then galaxies with @xmath117 are identified as bulge - dominated galaxies , @xmath118 as disk - dominated galaxies , and @xmath119 as intermediate galaxies .",
    "we classify our model galaxies based on the @xmath68-band @xmath3 .",
    "the boundaries between the three classes are chosen so that the morphological fractions in the field models match those of the field galaxies in the cnoc sample . as a result ,",
    "the galaxies with @xmath68-band @xmath120 are identified as bulge - dominated galaxies , @xmath121 as disk - dominated galaxies , and @xmath122 as intermediate galaxies in the standard models , and @xmath123 for the bulge - dominated and @xmath124 for the disk dominated galaxies in the minor burst models .    the fraction of galaxies with @xmath125 in each class is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] as a function of projected clustercentric radius and that of the field galaxies are shown at @xmath126 in left panels . by comparison of the cnoc sample with the standard model , it is confirmed that the intermediate fraction in our model is much smaller than the observation , while the bulge - dominated fraction in our model agrees with the observation .",
    "this problem has been indicated as a shortcoming of the major merger induced morphology evolution model @xcite .",
    "when we consider the rps , although the bulge - dominated fraction is increased and the disk - dominated fraction is decreased , the intermediate fraction is still small and it is even decreased at the center .",
    "it is because most of the disk - dominated galaxies are almost pure disk galaxies as we will show and then the rps simply darkens the disk - dominated galaxies rather increases their @xmath3s .",
    "furthermore the intermediate galaxies with relatively large @xmath3s are changed into the bulge - dominated galaxies .",
    "the strange behavior seen in the rps models at @xmath127 is resulting from the small number of galaxies at the radius because of the spherical high resolution region as we discussed previously . at that radius ,",
    "all the disk - dominated galaxies become darker than the luminosity cut - off by the rps by chance .",
    "we expect that such a behavior are not observed if we consider field contamination properly and increase the number of clusters .",
    "in fact , when we adopt a fainter luminosity cut - off , this behavior is not observed because the number of galaxies is increased .    the minor burst increases the intermediate fraction without changing the bulge - dominated fraction because it affects only galaxies with small bulge - to - total mass ratios . as a result",
    ", the minor burst model reproduces the observed fractions quite well in spite of it does not influence other properties of galaxies . now",
    "the disk - dominated galaxies tend to be non - pure disk galaxies .",
    "consequently , the rps can change their @xmath3s by the fading of their disks . in the minor burst + rps model",
    ", we can see the increasing intermediate fraction towards the center .",
    "it indicates that the disk - dominated galaxies have larger bulges in the inner part of the cluster resulting from the minor burst .",
    "to clarify the effects of the minor burst and rps , we show @xmath3 distributions for our model galaxies with @xmath125 at @xmath6 in fig .",
    "the probabilistic number distributions for the field are represented as a function of @xmath3 in top panels . in the standard model",
    ", there is a large blank between @xmath128 and 0.9 , and the distribution has peaks at @xmath129 and 1 . in the minor burst model",
    "the galaxies have similar @xmath3 distribution to that in the standard model , while the peak at @xmath129 is lowered and the galaxies have slightly extended @xmath3 distribution .",
    "in the lower panels we show the @xmath3 distributions of the galaxies within @xmath8 in the standard models ( left ) and the minor burst models ( right ) .",
    "the models with and without the rps are indicated by the dotted and solid lines , respectively . to see the influence of the rps , we do not normalize the distribution by the total number of galaxies .    in the standard model",
    ", the @xmath3 distribution has peaks at @xmath130 and @xmath131 as well as in the field model . by comparing the standard model to the rps model",
    ", it is found that the rps changes the distribution in two ways .",
    "firstly , it decreases the number of galaxies brighter than the luminosity cut - off . since the rps only affects the luminosity of the disk component , the number of the disk - dominated galaxies is more easily decreased than the galaxies with large @xmath3s .",
    "secondly , the rps increases the @xmath3s of non - pure disk ( and of course non - pure bulge ) galaxies . in our case",
    ", this effect is the most significant around @xmath128 .    in the minor burst model , lower @xmath3 distribution",
    "is significantly changed from that in the standard model .",
    "the peak at @xmath129 in the standard model moves to @xmath132 in the minor burst model . in the cluster",
    "the effect of the minor burst is stronger than in the field because of the higher merger rate .",
    "the rps works in the same way as in the standard model , but now the galaxies in the cluster center have larger bulges than those in the standard model ( fig .  [ fig7 ] ) , and then the rps increases the intermediate @xmath3 fraction in the center .    as we have shown here , the @xmath3 distribution gives us much more useful information than classifying galaxies into three types .",
    "therefore the direct comparison of the @xmath3 distribution predicted by a model with observational one in various environments will be a crucial test for the morphology evolution model .",
    "@xcite noted that the s0 fraction of cluster galaxies appears to decrease with redshift .",
    "although @xcite argued that it is difficult to define a reliable s0/e - ratio , @xcite pointed out that , in clusters , at least the early - type ( e+s0 ) fraction decreases with redshift . to probe the role of each environmental effect in the morphology evolution we plot the non - disk - dominated galaxy fractions and the number ratios of the intermediate galaxies to the bulge - dominated galaxies ( hereafter int / bulge - ratios ) in the upper and lower panels of fig .",
    "[ fig9 ] , respectively .",
    "we select the galaxies brighter than @xmath108 within @xmath133 at each redshift .",
    "all models show the gradually decreasing non - disk - dominated fractions with redshift .",
    "this qualitatively agrees with the observational trend of decreasing early - type fraction in clusters with redshift , though we can not make quantitative comparison because the correlation between the hubble - type and @xmath3 ( eq . ( [ morphology ] ) ) has a quite large scatter and we do not know whether this relation is adequate for cluster galaxies",
    ". there is no doubt that the hot gas stripping and the rps is responsible for the change of the non - disk - dominated fractions .",
    "these processes not only increase the @xmath3 of the galaxies but also decrease the number of galaxies brighter than the cut - off luminosity .",
    "the latter is also important because the disk - dominated galaxies are more easily darkened by these stripping processes , and then the disk - dominated fraction decreases toward lower redshift .",
    "our int / bulge - ratios show completely different trends from the observed s0/e - ratio .",
    "these ratios are flat or moderately increasing functions of redshift , albeit the observed s0/e - ratio is a strongly decreasing function .",
    "this feature can be understood from the following reason . in our models",
    "the bulges are formed through mergers and the merger rate is only high before cluster formation .",
    "thus , the bulges hardly grow up in clusters .",
    "hence , the main process that evolves the galaxy morphology in clusters is the fading of disks through gas stripping .",
    "as we mentioned above , this process increases @xmath3 ( i.e. it increases the bulge - dominated and intermediate galaxies ) and darkens the galaxies . as a result , although both the bulge - dominated and intermediate galaxies are increased , the intermediate galaxies are more likely to be darkened and fall below the cut - off luminosity than the bulge - dominated galaxies . then the int / bulge - ratios in the cluster become flat or increasing functions of redshift under the merger - driven bulge formation model .    we have to consider the processes that form or evolve bulges in clusters in order to produce an int / bulge - ratio similar to the observed s0/e - ratio .",
    "however , it is probably still possible that the int / bulge - ratio shows different evolution from the s0/e - ratio because the eyeball classification does not depend only on the @xmath3 .",
    "in fact , the disks of luminous sa - sb galaxies are substantially thickened and the spiral features are vanished by tidal encounters in clusters and they become galaxies resembling s0 s without the large change in their @xmath3s @xcite . we expect that observations of the int / bulge - ratio as a function of redshift will give important information about the formation process and/or epoch of the intermediate @xmath3 population .",
    "in this paper , we have investigated the effects of hot gas stripping , rps of cold disk gas , major mergers , and minor mergers on the evolution of bright cluster galaxies , for which the other mechanism , say , galaxy harassment , is probably not the predominant process .",
    "we have used a combination of the cosmological @xmath2-body simulations and the sa galaxy formation model .",
    "this method enables us to study above environmental effects in a fully cosmological context .",
    "we have determined the model parameters of the reference model to reproduce observations of nearby field galaxies and cmrs of local cluster ellipticals .      * the process that terminates star formation in early - type galaxies is starburst , because the cmrs for early - type galaxies in the cluster are almost independent of either the star formation time - scale or the presence of the rps . * if we adopt appropriate star formation time - scale , so as to reproduce the observed cold gas mass fraction in the field , the dominant process that determines colors of galaxies in the cluster core is the stripping of hot gas reservoirs .",
    "the effect of the rps is only substantial when we adopt much longer star formation time - scale .",
    "* minor burst does not affect galaxy properties except for morphology . * without minor burst galaxies typically separate into almost pure disk ( @xmath129 ) and almost pure bulge ( @xmath134 ) galaxies .",
    "the gap in the @xmath3 distribution causes the deficiency of the intermediate @xmath3 galaxies and makes the intermediate galaxy fraction very sensitive to the adopted @xmath3 range .",
    "the minor burst decreases the galaxies with @xmath129 and increases those with @xmath135 . this effect is larger in the cluster than in the field reflecting a richer merger history , and then the model with the minor burst can reproduce the observed morphology - radius relations .",
    "* rps gives quite small changes in the morphological fractions in the central part of the cluster under the bulge formation only by major mergers .",
    "when the minor burst is considered , the disk - dominated galaxies in the cluster center tend to have larger bulges than in the standard model , so that the rps increases / decreases the intermediate / disk - dominated galaxy fraction there . * the fractions of the non - disk - dominated galaxies in the cluster are decreasing functions of redshift .",
    "this feature agrees with the observed evolution of early - type fraction in clusters . on the other hand ,",
    "the int / bulge - ratios are flat or slightly increasing functions of redshift unlike to the observed s0/e - ratio .",
    "the stripping of the hot gas from galactic halos suppresses the star formation in the cluster core so efficiently that the effect of rps is seen only at the outskirts of the cluster . in order to find out this effect observationally ,",
    "it would be worthwhile comparing the colors or sfrs of the galaxies in cluster outskirts with those of the galaxies lying in regions with the same local density as the cluster outskirts but not associated with clusters .",
    "note that we do not have enough samples at the cluster outskirts and we do underestimate field contamination because of the small volume and spherical shape of the high resolution region in our simulation .",
    "moreover we assume instantaneous stripping of cold gas by the rp as a maximal effect , so that we must overestimate the stripping effect .",
    "thus , it would be more difficult to see the difference by rps in observations .",
    "we have shown that the bulge formation solely by major mergers has the difficulty to form galaxies of intermediate @xmath3 ( @xmath136 ) both in the field and cluster .",
    "the minor burst can resolve this problem because it develops the bulge of the disk - dominated galaxies .",
    "this effect is more significant for the cluster galaxies than the field galaxies reflecting richer merger histories .",
    "then the minor burst can reproduce the observed morphology - radius relation .",
    "since the disk - dominated galaxies in cluster tend to have larger bulges than those in the field by the minor burst , it also gives a reasonable answer to the problem that the fading of the disk - dominated galaxies like field spirals can not explain the entire cluster s0 population as there is too little luminosity density in spiral bulges ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "when the minor burst is considered , the rps can increase / decrease the intermediate / disk - dominated galaxy fraction at the cluster center , while the colors and sfrs of these galaxies are hardly changed .",
    "our results show that the minor burst is very important process to explain morphology evolution of galaxies , although our treatment is too simple . in order to construct a feasible morphology evolution model induced by mergers , the comparison of model predictions and observations in low density environments ( field and groups ) where the rps and the galaxy harassment are not important and the merger is predominant process that leads morphological transformation will be quite helpful .    in all our models",
    "the bulge formation is driven by mergers , and then the int / bulge - ratios become flat or slightly increasing functions of redshift contrastively to the observed s0/e - ratio in spite of we include the fading of disks by the hot gas and/or cold gas stripping .",
    "this is because the merger rate is only high before the cluster formation @xcite and the bulges hardly evolve in the cluster .",
    "this discrepancy between our models and the observation can be explained by the difference in the classification methods , that is , the hubble type of a galaxy depends on its sfr as well as its @xmath3 .",
    "consequently star - forming intermediate @xmath3 galaxies could be classified as spirals and non - star - forming disk - dominated galaxies have a chance to be classified as s0 s .",
    "if the int / bulge - ratio is also observed as a decreasing function of redshift , we will have to consider other bulge formation processes that increase bulge luminosity of the disk - dominated galaxies in high density environment .",
    "we are grateful to s. mineshige , y. fujita , and t. kodama for their fruitful comments .",
    "numerical computation in this work was carried out on sgi origin 2000 at division of physics , graduate school of science , hokkaido university and on sgi origin 3000 at yukawa institute computer facility .",
    "abadi , m. g. , moore , b. , & bower , r. g. 1999 , , 308 , 947 abraham , r. g. et al .",
    "1996 , , 471 , 694 andreon , s. 1998 , , 501 , 533 andreon , s. , & ettori , s. 1999 , , 516 , 647 balogh , m. l. , schade , d. , morris , s. l. , yee , h. k. c. , carlberg , r. g. , & ellingson , e. 1998 , , 504 , 75 balogh , m. l. , morris , s. l. , yee , h. k. c. , carlberg , r. g. , & ellingson , e. 1999 , , 527 , 54 balogh , m. l. , navarro , j. f. , & morris , s. l. 2000 , , 540 , 113 barnes , j. e.1996 , in asp conference series 92 , formation of the galactic halo  inside and out , ed . h. l. morrison & a. salajedini ( san francisco : asp ) , 415 baugh , c. m. , cole , s. , & frenk , c. s. 1996 , , 283 , 1361 bekki , k. 1998 , , 502 , l133 bertshinger , e. , & gelb , j. m. 1991 , comput .",
    ", 5 , 164 benson , a. j. , cole , s. , frenk , c. s. , baugh , c. m. , & lacey , c. g. 2000 , , 311 , 793 blanton , m. , cen , r. , ostriker , j. p. , & strauss , m. 1999 , , 522 , 590 bond , j. r. , cole , s. , efstathiou , g. , & kaiser , n. 1991 , , 379 , 440 bower , r. g. 1991 , , 248 , 332 bower , r. g. , lucy , j. r. , & ellis , r. s. 1992 , , 254 , 601 briel , u. g. , henry , j. p. , & bhringer , h. 1992 , , 259 , l31 butcher , h. & oemler , a. 1978 , , 219 , 18 butcher , h. & oemler , a. 1984 , , 285 , 426 cen , r. & ostriker , j. p. , 538 , 83 cole , s. , aragn - salamanca , a. , frenk , c. s. , navarro , j. f. , & zepf , s. e. 1994 , , 271 , 781 cole , s. , lacey , c. g. , baugh , c. m. , & frenk , c. s. 2000 , 319 , 168 carlberg , r. g. , yee , h. k. c. , & ellingson , e. 1997 , , 478 , 462 couch , w. j. , barger , a. j. , smail , i. ellis r. s. , & sharples , r. m. 1998 , , 497 , 188 davis , m. , efstathiou , g. , frenk , c. s. , & white , s. d. m. 1985 , , 292 , 371 diaferio , a. , kauffmann , g. , balogh , m. l. , white , s. d. m. , schade , d. , & ellingson , e. 2001 , , 323 , 999 dressler a. 1980 , , 236 , 351 dressler a. et al .",
    "1997 , , 490 , 577 ellingson , e. , lin , h. , yee , h. k. c. , & carlberg , r. g. 2001 , , 547 , 609 folkes , s. et al . 1999 , , 308 , 459 fujita , y. , & nagashima , m. , 1999 , , 516 , 619 gallagher , j. s. , bushouse , h. , & hunter , d. a. 1989 , , 97 , 700 ghigna , s. , moore , b. , governato , f. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , & stadel , j. 1998 , , 300 , 146 gottlber , s. , klypin , a. , & kravtsov , a. v. 2001 , , 546 , 223 governato , f. , moore , b. , cen , r. , stadel , j. , lake , g. , & quinn t. 1997 , new astron . , 2 , 91 gunn , j. e. , & gott , j. r. 1972 , , 176 , 1 hoffman , y. , & ribak , e. 1991 , , 380 , l5 huchtmeier , w. k. , & richter o .- g . 1988 , , 208 , 237 impey , c. d. , sprayberry , d. , irwin , m. j. , & bothun , g. d. 1996 , , 105 , 209 katz , n. , hernquist , l. , & weinberg , d. h. 1999 , , 523 , 463 kauffmann , g. 1996 , , 281 , 487 kauffmann , g. , & charlot , s. 1998 , , 294 , 705 kauffmann , g. , colberg , j. m. , diaferio , a. , & white , s. d. m. 1999 , , 397 , 529 kauffmann , g. , & haehnelt , m. 2000 , , 311 , 576 kauffmann , g. , white , s. d. m. , & guiderdoni , b. 1993 , , 264 , 201 kodama , t. , & bower , r. g. 2001 , , 321 , 18 kodama , t. , & arimoto , n. 1997 , koopmann , r. a. , & kenney , j. d. p. 1998",
    ", , 497 , l751 kodama , t. , arimoto , n. , barger , a. j. , & aragn - salamanca , a. 1998 , , 334 , 99 .",
    "lacey , c. , & cole , s. 1993 , , 262 , 627 larson , r. b. , tinsley , b. m. , & caldwell , c. n. 1980 , , 237 , 692 loveday j. , peterson , b. , efstathiou , g. , & maddox , s. 1992 , 390 , 338 mihos , j. c. , & hernquist , l. 1994 , 425 , l13 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , & oemler , a. , 1996 , , 379 , 613 moore , b. , lake , g. , & katz , n. 1998 , , 495 , 139 moore , b. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , & stadel , j. 1999 , , 304 , 465 nagashima , m. , & gouda , n. 2001 , , 325 , l13 nagashima , m. , totani , t. , gouda , n. , & yoshii , y. 2001 , , 557 , 505 nagashima , m. , yoshii , y. , totani , t. , & gouda , n. 2002 , , 578 , 675 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , & white , s. d. m. 1997 , , , 490 , 493 netterfiel , c. b. et al .",
    "2002 , 571 , 604 okamoto , t. , & habe , a. 1999 , , 516 , 591 okamoto , t. , & habe , a. 2000 , , 52 , 457 okamoto , t. , & nagashima , m. 2001 , , 547 , 109 pearce et al .",
    "1999 , , 521 , l99 press , w. h. , & schechter , p. l. 1974 , , 187 , 425 ratcliffe , a. , shanks , t. , parker , q. , & fong , r. 1998 , , 293 , 197 roukema , b. f. , peterson , b. a. , quinn , p. j. , & rocca - volmerrange , b. 1997 , , 292 , 835 sandage , a. , binggeli , b. , & tammann , g. a. 1985 , , 90 , 1759 simien , f. , & de vaucouleurs , g. 1986 , , 302 , 564 .",
    "somerville , r. s. , & primack , j. r. 1999 , , 310 , 1087 somerville , r. s. , primack , j. r. , & faber , s. m. 2001 , , 320 , 504 springel , v. , white , s. d. m. , tormen , g. , & kauffmann , g. 2001 , , 328 , 726 steinmetz , m. & mller , e. 1995 , , 276 , 549 sutherland , r. , & dopita , m. a. 1993 , , 88 , 253 suzuki , t. k. , yoshii , y. , & beers , t. c. 2000 , , 540 , 99 terlevich , a. i. , caldwell , n. , & bower , r. g. 2001 , , 326 , 1547 tormen , g. 1997 , , 290 , 411 totani , t. , & yoshii , y. 2000 , , 540 , 81 van dokkum , p. g. , & franx , m. 2001 , , 553 , 90 van dokkum , p. g. , franx , m. , kelson , d. d. , illingworth , g. d. , fisher , d. , & fabricant , d. 1998 , , 500 , 714 walker , i. r. , mihos , j. c. , & hernquist , l. 1996 , , 460 , 121 weinberg , d. h. , hernquist , l. , katz , n. 1997 , , 477 , 8 whitmore , b. c. , gilmore , d. m. , & jones , c. 1993 , , 407 , 489 yee , h. k. c. , ellingson , e. , & carlberg , r. g. , 1996 , , 102 , 269 zucca e. et al .",
    "1997 , , 326 , 477"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate environmental effects on evolution of bright cluster galaxies ( @xmath0 ) in a @xmath1 dominated cold dark matter universe using a combination of dissipationless @xmath2-body simulations and a semi - analytic galaxy formation model . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath2-body simulations enable us to calculate orbits of galaxies in simulated clusters . </S>",
    "<S> therefore we can incorporate stripping of cold gas from galactic disks by ram pressure ( rp ) from intracluster medium into our model . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we study how ram pressure stripping ( rps ) and small starburst induced by a minor merger affect colors , star formation rates ( sfrs ) , and morphologies of cluster galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> these processes are new ingredients in our model and have not been studied sufficiently . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the rps is not important for colors and sfrs of galaxies in the cluster core if star formation time - scale is properly chosen , because the star formation is sufficiently suppressed by consumption of the cold gas in the disks . then observed color and sfr gradients can be reproduced without the rps . </S>",
    "<S> the small starburst triggered by a minor merger hardly affects the sfrs and colors of the galaxies as well . </S>",
    "<S> we also examine whether these two processes can resolve the known problem that the hierarchical clustering models based on the major merger - driven bulge formation scenario predict too few galaxies of intermediate bulge - to - total luminosity ratio ( @xmath3 ) in clusters . when the minor burst is taken into account , </S>",
    "<S> the intermediate @xmath3 population is increased and the observed morphology gradients in clusters are successfully reproduced . without the minor burst , the rps can not increase the intermediate @xmath3 population . on the other hand , </S>",
    "<S> when the minor burst is considered , the rps also plays an important role in formation of the intermediate @xmath3 galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we present redshift evolution of morphological fractions predicted by our models </S>",
    "<S> . the predicted number ratios of the intermediate @xmath3 galaxies to the bulge - dominated galaxies show nearly flat or slightly increasing trends with increasing redshift . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that these trends are inevitable when bulges are formed through mergers . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss whether our results conflict with observationally suggested @xmath4 evolution in clusters , which is a decreasing function of redshift . </S>"
  ]
}