{
  "article_text": [
    "the existence of a cosmic x - ray background ( cxb ) was one of the first discoveries of extra - solar x - ray astronomy ( giacconi et al .",
    "1962 ) . in the intervening four decades , observations with improving angular and spectral resolution have enhanced our understanding of the components that make up this background . several broad - band",
    ", all - sky surveys have been performed using proportional - counter detectors ( marshall et al .  1980 ; mccammon et al .",
    "1983 ; marshall & clark 1984 ; garmire et al .",
    "1992 ; snowden et al.1995 , 1997 ; for a review of pre-  results , see mccammon & sanders 1990 ) .",
    "these surveys form a consistent picture of the angular distribution of x - ray emission in the various bands . above 2 kev ,",
    "the emission is highly isotropic on large angular scales and has an extragalactic origin .",
    "below 2 kev , the x - ray background is a mixture of galactic diffuse emission ( e.g. , kuntz & snowden 2000 and references therein ) , heliospheric and geocoronal diffuse component ( e.g. , cravens 2000 ) , and extragalactic flux from point sources and , possibly , from intergalactic warm gas that may contain the bulk of the present - day baryons ( e.g. , cen & ostriker 1999 )",
    ".    the earliest observations could provide only limited spectral information on the background .",
    "marshall et al .",
    "( 1980 ) found that the spectrum in the 350 kev range was well fit by a thermal bremsstrahlung model with @xmath8 kev . in the 310 kev band",
    "this can be approximated by a power law with a photon index of @xmath9 . at energies below 1 kev the background surface brightness exceeds the extrapolation of this power law ( bunner et al.1969 ) .",
    "later observations with gas - scintillation proportional counters and solid - state detectors ( inoue et al .  1979 ; schnopper et al .  1982 ; rocchia et al",
    ".  1984 ) suggested emission lines in the 0.51.0 kev band , most likely from oxygen .",
    "the evidence for emission lines in this band has become more convincing in recent observations using ccds ( gendreau et al .",
    "1995 ; mendenhall & burrows 2001 ) and in a high - resolution spectrum obtained by mccammon et al .",
    "( 2002 ) in a microcalorimetric experiment . a definitive demonstration of spectral lines in the 0.150.3 kev band ( at low galactic latitude ) was obtained by sanders et al .",
    "( 2001 ) using a bragg - crystal spectrometer .",
    "observations that combine high spectral and angular resolution are essential for disentangling the many cxb soft emission components .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we can compare our total ( diffuse + sources ) cxb results with the recent  work ( lumb et al .",
    "2002 ) . since the brightest sources in our four fields have fluxes similar to the lowest fluxes of the excluded sources in lumb et al .",
    "( @xmath10  in the 0.52 kev band ) , our `` total '' fluxes can be directly compared to their values after the bright source exclusion .",
    "starting from high energies , normalizations of our power - law fits in the 17 kev band given in table 2 are in agreement with the  average of 8.4  at 1 kev , if we exclude our bright field 930 . in the narrower 12 kev band , our fluxes ( again , except 930 )",
    "are in good agreement with lumb et al.s @xmath11  calculated from their best - fit model .",
    "our 27 kev fluxes also agree with @xmath12  converted from their 210 kev flux ( we note here that these three values in table 2 are not entirely statistically independent , because the error is dominated by the same moon dataset ) .",
    "our uncertainties in the 27 kev band are large ; future ways to reduce them are described in ",
    "[ sec : future ] below .",
    "our 17 kev power law normalizations also agree with @xmath13  at 1 kev derived by miyaji et al .",
    "( 1998 ) from  gis data for two high galactic latitude fields , and with 11.7  derived by vecchi et al .",
    "( 1999 ) using .",
    "note that those studies cover much greater solid angles and therefore are more likely to include rare , bright sources , so this comparison is only approximate .    at @xmath14 kev ,",
    "the scatter between our fields ( a factor of 5 ) is higher than that in lumb et al .",
    "( a factor of 23 ) , but this , of course , is because of our specific selection of fields spanning a range of  fluxes .    at the primary o line energy ,",
    "the cxb is dominated by the diffuse component ( fig .",
    "[ fig : totdiff ] ) .",
    "thus , we can compare our line fluxes to those recently derived in a microcalorimetric experiment by mccammon et al.(2002 ) from a 1 sr area mostly away from bright galactic features .",
    "they report an average flux in the ovii + oviii lines of @xmath15 .",
    "this is in the range of our values for the off - spur observations 3013 and 3419 given in table 3 .",
    "mccammon et al .  ( 2002 ) also observed lines at lower energies , some of which may explain our 300 ev feature ( if it is real ) .",
    "oxygen line fluxes derived from earlier experiments ( e.g. , inoue et al .  1979 ; gendreau et al .",
    "1995 ) are also within our range .",
    "our results show , however , that even for these high galactic latitude areas away from bright galactic features , the line brightness varies significantly from field to field .",
    "the general shape of the north polar spur spectrum in our field 930 is consistent with that reported in earlier works ( e.g. , schnopper et al .",
    "1982 ; rocchia et al.1984 ; warwick 2002 ) .      the diffuse flux in fields 869 and 930 is obviously dominated by the north polar spur .",
    "the o blend in 3013 and 3419 probably has a galactic or local origin as well ( extragalactic sources with redshifts @xmath16 are excluded by our measured line energy ; furthermore , the high - resolution spectrum of mccammon et al .",
    "2002 excludes _ any _ redshift ) , although we can not exclude , for example , their local group origin .",
    "thus , the continuum component in the two low - brightness fields can give an approximate upper limit on the flux from the vast quantities of the putative warm intergalactic gas ( e.g. , cen & ostriker 1999 ) that should emit a mixture of lines and continua from different redshifts .",
    "for a conservatively high estimate of this continuum component , we fit the 0.31 kev diffuse spectra by a power law model plus the line , applying the full galactic absorbing column .",
    "the resulting unabsorbed continuum fluxes are given in table 3 ; they correspond to the spectral density of @xmath17 kev@xmath18 at @xmath19 kev .",
    "this is well above the typical theoretical predictions that range between @xmath20 kev@xmath18 ( e.g. , cen & ostriker 1999 ; phillips , ostriker , & cen 2001 ; voit & bryan 2001 ; but see bryan & voit 2001 for a higher predicted flux from simulations without the inclusion of cooling and preheating ) .",
    "however , the predicted average brightness values from the published simulations are not directly comparable to our result , because they are dominated by nearby galaxy groups and clusters that are easily detected and excluded from our and other cxb measurements .",
    "thus , our crude estimate does not constrain the warm intergalactic gas models .",
    "the constraint may be improved in the future by better modeling and subtraction of the galactic emission and spatial fluctuation analysis ( as in , e.g. , kuntz , snowden & mushotzky 2001 ) ; however , since the galaxy dominates at these energies , such constraints will necessarily be model - dependent .",
    "the observed energies of the spectral lines suggest local ( in the local group , galaxy , or our immediate vicinity ) origin of the dominant fraction of the soft diffuse cxb .",
    "extensive literature exists that models its various components under the well - justified assumption of their thermal plasma origin ( e.g. , kuntz & snowden 2000 and references therein ) .",
    "leaving such modeling for future work , here we mention an interesting alternative possibility .",
    "it is likely that a significant fraction of the line flux comes from charge exchange ( cx ) between highly charged ions in the solar wind ( primarily bare and hydrogenic o and c ) and neutral gas occurring throughout the heliosphere and in the geocorona .",
    "most of the flux that would be observed from heliospheric cx ( with h and he ) originates within a few tens of au of the sun .",
    "geocoronal emission arises where residual atmospheric h is exposed to the solar wind , at distances of order 10 earth radii .    in the cx process",
    ", a collision between a solar wind ion and a neutral atom leads to the transfer of an electron from the neutral species to a high-@xmath21 energy level in the ion , which then decays and emits an x ray .",
    "dennerl et al .",
    "( 1997 ) and cox ( 1998 ) were the first to suggest that these photons might contribute to the cxb , and cravens ( 2000 ) estimated that heliospheric emission might account for roughly half of the observed soft cxb .",
    "cravens , robertson , & snowden ( 2001 ) also argued that the excess time - variable diffuse flux often observed by  was due to fluctuations in heliospheric and especially geocoronal cx emission , caused by `` gusts '' in the solar wind .    in the  moon observations ,",
    "the heliospheric component will be blocked , but geocoronal emission should be present .",
    "we estimate , however , that the typical intensity of that signal , about a few @xmath22 phot s@xmath18 @xmath23 arcmin@xmath24 in o k@xmath25 ( the strongest line ) , is smaller than the statistical uncertainties in our measurement .",
    "note also that the geocoronal signature is not likely to be present in our net cxb spectra , since it is subtracted as part of the moon spectrum .",
    "heliospheric cx emission should be stronger and less time - variable than geocoronal emission , and should be present in our spectra .",
    "we have constructed a numerical model , based on cravens ( 2000 ) work and similar to that described in wargelin & drake ( 2001 , 2002 ) , that predicts that roughly half the flux in the o line(s ) in fields 3013 and 3419 may come from heliospheric cx .",
    "those observations were at low ecliptic latitude , within the `` slow '' and more highly ionized solar wind .",
    "cx flux in fields 869 and 930 is expected to be much lower because those observations looked through the `` fast '' solar wind , which has a much smaller fraction of bare and h - like o ions ( von steiger et al .",
    "observations of a sample of fields selected specifically to test this possibility are required for a more quantitative analysis , which is forthcoming ( b. j. wargelin et al .  in preparation ) .      for further cxb studies with , it is useful to look into the error budget of the present results .",
    "the errors in the 17 kev band are dominated by the detector background uncertainty : the statistical error of the short moon dataset , the uncertainty on its normalization , and the possible residual flare component .",
    "forthcoming calibration observations with acis stowed but working in the full imaging mode should take care of the first component .",
    "the other two point toward the use of fi chips for studies in this band .",
    "the scatter of the quiescent background normalization probably can not be reduced below our 23% estimate ; however , the fi detector background itself is lower by a factor of 23 , depending on the energy .",
    "the fi chips also are much less affected by the background flares .",
    "an acis - i study of the cxb will be presented in a forthcoming paper ( s. virani et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "we have analyzed four high galactic latitude , empty fields observed with  acis - s3 and , for the first time , derived spectra of the diffuse x - ray background , directly excluding the point source contribution .",
    "the total ( diffuse and point sources ) cxb brightness in all bands is in agreement with most previous experiments . in the 0.31 kev band ,",
    "the diffuse signal varies strongly between all four fields . in the two fields far from known bright galactic features",
    ", it contributes about half of the total cxb seen by instruments with poorer angular resolution .",
    "it is dominated by emission lines ( most prominently , the ovii + oviii blend at @xmath2 ev , indications of which were also seen in previous experiments ) and can be described by a thermal plasma model with @xmath26 kev .",
    "the line brightness increases strongly , and additional lines appear , in the directions of the north polar spur .    at higher energies , the background is more uniform .",
    "diffuse emission is detected with high significance in the 12 kev band in the brighter of the two north polar spur fields .",
    "in other fields at @xmath27 kev , the diffuse component is weak or consistent with zero at our present accuracy ( to be improved in the forthcoming analysis of acis - i deep observations ) . our current uncertainties for the diffuse cxb  one of the lowest surface brightness celestial objects",
    " are large due to the difficulty of modeling the instrumental background in the time - variable particle environment encountered in high - altitude orbits like s .",
    "the results presented here are made possible by the successful effort of the entire  team to launch and operate the observatory .",
    "we thank the referee for helpful comments and suggestions .",
    "partial support was provided by nasa contract nas8 - 39073 , grant nag5 - 9217 , and the smithsonian institution .",
    "for the acis analysis of extended objects , the background can be modeled and subtracted as we did in  [ sec : analysis ] .",
    "in addition to the july - september 2001 dark moon data and the observations with acis stowed ( forthcoming in 2002 and 2003 ) that contain only the detector background , large datasets combining a number of high galactic latitude , relatively source - free fields are available ( see markevitch 2001 for details ) .",
    "the latter data are cleaned of flares and point sources , but include the cosmic diffuse emission , so they are relevant when this emission is part of the background as opposed to signal .",
    "separate blank - sky datasets are assembled for three acis temperatures ( which determines the spectral resolution ) , and for different time periods for the present @xmath28c temperature , to track the background evolution .",
    "the following steps summarize our background subtraction procedure as it could be applied in a typical extended source analysis , using the combined blank field datasets .",
    "in anomalous cases , this procedure may need more than one iteration .",
    "\\1 . to identify flares , we select a region of the chip(s ) free of bright source emission and use it to create a light curve with time bins large enough to be able to detect rate changes by a factor of 1.2 ( the fiducial factor used in creation of the blank sky datasets ) . using the relevant background dataset ( determined by the observation date )",
    ", we evaluate the nominal count rate in the selected region , and reject all intervals with the rate above a factor of 1.2 of this expected rate ( usually , the flares are well - defined in time and the exact threshold is not important ) .",
    "bi and fi chips should be cleaned separately because bi chips are much more prone to flares .",
    "given the spectra of the flares , for the bi chips , a 2.57 kev ( or 2.56 kev for s1 ) energy band should be used , while for the fi chips , the full 0.312 kev band may be used .",
    "if the target is in s3 and covers the whole chip , chip s1 can be used for flare detection . despite the different quiescent backgrounds ,",
    "s1 and s3 show a very similar response to flares , including the flare timing , spectra and intensities .",
    "if s1 is not available either , then faint , non - obvious flares may escape detection and significantly affect the results , because flare and quiescent background components have very different spectral shape ( see , e.g. , a discussion in markevitch 2002 and  [ sec : lc3013 ] above ) .",
    "in such cases , one should at least check the validity of the results by trying to fit a flare model to the spectrum above 2 kev extracted from low - brightness target areas ( as in  [ sec:3013resid ] ) .",
    "that spectral model applies only to the `` soft '' flare species that does not affect the fi chips .",
    "if there is a faint , long flare in the observation whose proper exclusion results in too little useful exposure left , and if there are source - free areas in the chip of the same type , one can try to model the flare contribution using those areas ( as was attempted , e.g. , in markevitch et al .",
    "2002 and markevitch 2002 ) .",
    "however , the flare flux is not spatially uniform ; its spatial distribution is under investigation .    \\2 . after the flare exclusion",
    ", the background dataset can be normalized by the ratio of high - energy rates , e.g. , in the pha interval of 25003000 adu .",
    "this ratio should be within @xmath29% of the exposure ratio .",
    "item 1 may need to be repeated with the corrected nominal rate if this correction is large .",
    "a 90% systematic uncertainty on the background normalization derived in this manner is about 3% (  [ sec : timedep ] ) ; however , if any residual faint flare is suspected , it should be taken into account in the final uncertainty .      \\4 .",
    "as seen from our results ( e.g. , table 2 ) , the soft ( @xmath30 kev ) cxb component varies strongly from field to field even at high galactic latitudes , so the blank - sky background may not have the correct soft spectrum .",
    "one can , for example , compare the rass r4-r5 flux ( snowden et al .",
    "1997 ) for a given observation to the average r4-r5 flux for the background dataset to determine if a correction is needed ( for low-@xmath31 fields , it may be needed even if those wide - band fluxes are similar , since the soft spectra may still be very different ) .",
    "if so , one can try to use regions of the field of view free of sources ( not necessarily in the same chip ) to model the sky soft excess or deficiency w.r.t .",
    "the blank - sky background ( e.g. , by the simple models used in this paper ) , and subtract this model from the regions of interest after the proper vignetting correction ( as , e.g. , in markevitch & vikhlinin 2001 and markevitch 2002 ) . an alternative is to use the dark moon data or the acis - stowed data ( if the observation date is sufficiently close to those datasets ) and model away the whole diffuse cxb component ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an exploratory  acis - s3 study of the diffuse component of the cosmic x - ray background in the 0.37 kev band for four directions at high galactic latitudes , with emphasis on details of the acis instrumental background modeling . </S>",
    "<S> observations of the dark moon are used to model the detector background . </S>",
    "<S> a comparison of the moon data and the data obtained with acis stowed outside the focal area showed that the dark moon does not emit significantly in our band . </S>",
    "<S> point sources down to @xmath0  in the 0.52 kev band are excluded in our two deepest observations . </S>",
    "<S> we estimate the contribution of fainter , undetected sources to be less than 20% of the remaining cxb flux in this band in all four pointings . in the 0.31 kev band , </S>",
    "<S> the diffuse signal varies strongly from field to field and contributes between 55% and 90% of the total cxb signal . </S>",
    "<S> it is dominated by emission lines that can be modeled by a @xmath1 kev plasma . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the two fields located away from bright galactic features show a prominent line blend at @xmath2 ev ( ovii + oviii ) and a possible line feature at @xmath3 ev . </S>",
    "<S> the two pointings toward the north polar spur exhibit a brighter o blend and additional bright lines at 730830 ev ( fexvii ) . </S>",
    "<S> we measure the total 12 kev flux of @xmath4  ( mostly resolved ) , and the 27 kev flux of @xmath5 . at @xmath6 kev , </S>",
    "<S> the diffuse emission is consistent with zero , to an accuracy limited by the short moon exposure and systematic uncertainties of the s3 background . </S>",
    "<S> assuming galactic or local origin of the line emission , we put an upper limit of @xmath7  on the 0.31 kev extragalactic diffuse flux . </S>"
  ]
}