{
  "article_text": [
    "first discovered by the infrared astronomical satellite ( iras ) , the `` vega phenomenon '' is characterized by a significant deviation from the expected rayleigh - jeans emission of quiescent main - sequence stars @xcite .",
    "the excess ir emission from other stars has been attributed to dust orbiting at distances anywhere from less than 1 to more than 100 au , analogous to the zodiacal cloud and the kuiper belt in our own solar system . due to effects such as radiation pressure and poynting - robertson drag , the lifetime of the dust is generally much shorter than the age of the system ; any dust observed must have been recently produced . in the solar system ,",
    "dust is generated by collisions between larger bodies in the asteroid and kuiper belts , as well as from outgassing comets .",
    "extrasolar systems with ir excess presumably have their own supply of large , solid planetesimals and , perhaps , large planets like those in our system .",
    "iras found that approximately 15% of main - sequence stars @xcite , predominantly a and f stars , show excesses attributable to dust in orbit around the stars at distances between a few and a few hundred au and heated by absorbed starlight to temperatures of 30 - 300 k @xcite .",
    "fractional luminosities , @xmath3 , are observed as large as @xmath4 for stars with bright excesses such as @xmath5 pic and as small as @xmath6 for stars at the detection threshold .",
    "these values can be compared to our solar system : @xmath7 to @xmath8 for the hot material in the zodiacal cloud ( 1 - 3 au ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and @xmath8 to @xmath9 predicted for the cooler kuiper belt region beyond 10 au @xcite , which is constrained to be @xmath10 by iras @xcite .",
    "observations by the infrared space observatory ( iso ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggest a decline in the fraction of stars with excess ir emission with time , but with the possibility of finding modest ( @xmath11 ) excesses among older stars @xcite .  and iras results toward more than 200 a stars",
    "confirm a general decline in the average amount of emission with little 4um emission seen for sources older than 100 myr but with large variations within each age group studied @xcite .",
    "the variations are probably due in part to sporadic replenishment of dust clouds by individual collisions between large , solid bodies , but also are likely to reflect a range in mass and extent for the initial planetesimal disk .    images in the optical and near - ir @xcite , submillimeter @xcite and from  itself @xcite have revealed that in some cases the dust exists in flattened disks with warps , gaps , and blob - like structures that have been attributed to the gravitational influence of planets @xcite .",
    "still , while the frequency and magnitude of ir excess are strongly correlated with stellar youth , no such correlation has yet been found between ir excess and the presence of planets . even before the first confirmed discovery of an extrasolar planet orbiting a sun - like star ( 51 peg b ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , attempts had been made to find links between planets and dusty debris around other stars ( e.g.  @xmath12 eri ; * ? ? ?",
    "while early radial - velocity searches for planets found a planet - like trend for @xmath12 eridani @xcite , the candidate planet remains controversial even today due to the extremely high level of chromospheric activity on this young star .",
    "the 7-year periodicity found in the star s radial velocity @xcite may be induced by a planet orbiting at several au @xcite or may instead be a reflection of the star s poorly understood magnetic cycle .",
    "conversely , 55 cnc has a well - known planetary system , but claims of a dust disk based on visible imaging @xcite and iso photometry @xcite have been ruled out by hst coronography @xcite , submillimeter mapping @xcite , and /mips measurements presented here . in spite of the many studies specifically designed to find a connection between dust and planets , no systems with both well - confirmed planets and well - confirmed ir excess",
    "have yet been observed .",
    "in fact , the data to date appear to indicate an anti - correlation between dust and planets @xcite .",
    "the longstanding assumption that stars besides the sun might harbor both planets and extended dust emission has still not been verified .",
    "the aim of this paper is to use the multiband imaging photometer on the _ spitzer space telescope _",
    "( mips ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) to directly address this outstanding issue by searching for excess ir emission from known planet - bearing stars .",
    "mips provides unprecedented sensitivity at mid - ir wavelengths and as such is an ideal instrument for searching for the dust emission from solar - type stars .",
    "while the focus of this paper is on observations of stars which are known to have planets , for purposes of noise calibration and to greatly improve our statistical analysis , the results for planet - bearing stars are considered within the context of a larger program - the volume limited survey ( vls ) .",
    "vls is a  gto program designed to search for excesses around a broad sample of 155 nearby , f5-k5 main - sequence field stars , sampling wavelengths from 8 - 40  with irs and 24 & 0um with mips .",
    "this survey consists of two components - stars with planets and those without .",
    "the stars without known planets represent a true volume - limited sample selected for expected 0um brightness and low levels of infrared cirrus .",
    "the sample includes g and late f stars out to 25 pc and early k stars out to 15 pc .",
    "this component of vls consists of 114 stars ( without planets ) , 58 of which have already been observed .",
    "these stars will be discussed in more detail in a separate paper @xcite ; here we focus on the second component of the vls program - planet - bearing stars .",
    "the planet - bearing sample was selected from a group of stars of similar spectral types known to have rv planets .",
    "of 41 planned targets , 26 have been observed to date .",
    "these stars are not necessarily located in regions of low infrared cirrus and are typically farther away ( @xmath215 - 50 pc ) than the non - planet vls sample .",
    "it is worth noting that the disk around @xmath12 eri , a k0 star located 3.3 pc away , would have been undetectable by iras if that star were located even 10 pc away ; its 60  flux density would then have dropped below the completeness limit of the faint source catalog @xcite .",
    "the sensitivity of /mips allows the search for disks not just around the nearest fgk stars , but also around those located at distances of 10 - 50 pc around which planets have been identified .",
    "we present our mips observation in  [ observations ] , along with a full error analysis to determine whether any measured excesses are statistically significant . for the systems with ir excess ,  [ parameters ]",
    "attempts to find a correlation with system parameters such as stellar metallicity / age or planet mass / semi - major axis .",
    "before the concluding remarks (  [ conclusions ] ) , we describe how our mips observations constrain the dust properties in each system (  [ ldsec ] ) .",
    "during its first year of operation  observed from the vls sample 26 stars with rv planets ( table [ planetparam ] ) and an additional 58 stars without any known planets .",
    "all stars were observed at 0um .",
    "one planet - bearing star , hd128311 , was not observed at 4um due to scheduling constraints , but its spectrum at this wavelength was measured with irs long - low and was found to be consistent with no excess shortward of 30 .",
    "the remainder of the planet - bearing stars were observed at 4um and detected with high signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) .",
    "our data reduction is based on the dat software developed by the mips instrument team @xcite . because the data pipeline is still under development and the adopted calibration numbers are likely to change with further improvements in the overall mips data analysis",
    ", we list our chosen set of data reduction parameters in detail .    for each of the 4um and 0um bands , the instrument calibration was derived from @xmath275 observations of @xmath235 different stars . to minimize systematic uncertainties ,",
    "a mix of stellar types was used : most of the calibrators are k giants , several are a stars , and a few are solar analogs . the 4um photosphere predictions were derived from stellar templates ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for k giants , from kurucz models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for a stars , and from the solar spectrum ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for the solar analogs .",
    "the 0um photospheric predictions were obtained similarly , except that the analytic spectral functions of @xcite were used to extrapolate the k giant templates out to 0um .    at 4um",
    ", we carried out aperture photometry on reduced images using an aperture 6 camera pixels ( 1 pixel=2.5  at 4um ) in radius , a background annulus from 12 to 17 pixels , and an aperture correction of 1.15 .",
    "the flux level is calibrated at 1.047 @xmath13jy / arcsec@xmath14/(dn / s ) , with a default color correction of 1.00 appropriate for sources warmer than 4000 k at a weighted - average wavelength of 23.68 .",
    "final images were mosaiced from individual frames with quarter - pixel subsampling .",
    "at 0um we used images processed beyond the standard dat software in order to correct for time - dependent transients , corrections which can significantly improve the sensitivity of the measurements @xcite . at 4um ,",
    "a large enough aperture was chosen so as to integrate all of the flux out to roughly the first airy ring . because the accuracy of the 0um data is limited by background noise , rather than instrumental effects",
    ", such a large aperture contains an undesirable amount of sky fluctuations . in order to maximize signal - to - noise",
    ", a smaller aperture is more appropriate at 0um - just 1.5 pixels in radius . with a 4 to 8 pixel radius sky annulus ,",
    "this aperture size requires a relatively high aperture correction of 1.79 .",
    "the flux level is calibrated at 15,800 @xmath13jy / arcsec@xmath14/mips_70_unit , again with a default color correction of 1.00 ( mips_70_units are based on the ratio of the measured signal to the stimulator flash signal ) .",
    "images were mosaiced from individual frames with half - pixel subsampling .",
    "for both the 4um and 0um data , neighboring point sources were subtracted from the images before measuring the sky brightness .",
    "also for both wavelengths , we fix each target s position , rather than centroid onto the peak of the local flux distribution .",
    "if the target position is not fixed , the centroid position tends to float toward any local noise fluctuations , resulting in an inappropriately high flux measurement , particularly for noisy fields .",
    "the fact that no centering of the aperture is required is a reflection of the excellent telescope pointing intrinsic to ( @xmath151 ; * ? ? ?",
    "in order to determine whether any of our target stars have an ir excess , we compare the measured photometry to predicted photospheric levels . for convenience in extrapolating the photospheric emission",
    "we have fitted kurucz models @xcite to a combination of short wavelength data taken primarily from the tycho / hipparcos ( visible ) , johnson ( bright near - ir ) or 2mass ( faint near - ir ) , and iras ( 12 ) catalogs . after excluding one outlying point for a star with an excess ( hd69830 , which will be discussed elsewhere ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the 83 flux measurements at 4um have an average @xmath16 of 0.99 which , although gratifyingly close to unity , is not surprising given that the present  calibration is based on similar stellar models .",
    "more importantly for our purposes , the dispersion of @xmath17 is 0.07 for this sample ( fig .",
    "[ f24k ] ) .    at 0um ,",
    "73 out of 84 stars ( both planet - bearing and without planets ) are detected with signal - to - noise ratio @xmath18 .",
    "this is in contrast with previous ir surveys of afgk stars with iso , in which only half of the stars without excess were detected @xcite .",
    "while the sensitivity of these  observations is roughly a factor of 10 better than previous data , s sensitivity is limited by extragalactic source confusion and cirrus ( see below ) which will make it difficult to look for excesses around stars much fainter than those discussed here .    the distribution of 0um flux densities relative to the expected photospheric values is shown in fig .  [ f70k ]",
    "unlike the tight distribution of flux ratios at 4um , several stars have 0um flux much higher than expected from the stellar photosphere alone . in one case ,",
    "the 0um flux is high by a factor of 15 .",
    "many of the stars ( 12 ) will be identified in the following as having statistically significant ir excess . ignoring these stars with excesses and those with snr @xmath19 ,",
    "the average ratio of mips flux to predicted photosphere is @xmath20 , consistent with the present calibration .",
    "more important than the absolute calibration of @xmath21 is its dispersion , which indicates the overall accuracy of the flux measurements and gives an immediate sense of the minimum level of excess necessary for detection .",
    "the dispersion in the 0um sample is 28% ( excluding the stars with excesses ) , considerably higher than that in the 4um data ( 7% ) .",
    "the following section (  [ noisesec ] ) discusses in more detail the noise levels within the 0um data .",
    "[ sedboth ] shows the spectral energy distributions for two of the planet - bearing stars , hd82943 and hd117176 , that have excess 0um emission",
    ". published photometric fluxes for these stars from visible to infrared are well fit by kurucz stellar atmospheres ( dotted lines ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the /mips 4um fluxes are also well fit by the model atmospheres ( within 1% for hd82943 , 5% low for hd117176 ) .",
    "the 0um emission , meanwhile , is well above that expected from the stellar photosphere alone ; an additional component of emission due to dust must be added to the kurucz model in order to fit the 0um data .",
    "because there is only a single 0um measurement of ir excess , however , the sed can be fit by a range of dust temperatures and luminosities .",
    "constraints on the dust in these systems are discussed in  [ ldsec ] .      a potential correlation of planets with ir excess is already apparent in fig .",
    "[ f70k ] , in which 4 of the 5 largest 0um flux ratios are for stars which harbor planets , even though planet - bearing stars make up less than one - third of the sample .",
    "still , without a proper analysis of the noise levels in each field it is impossible to assess whether the ir excesses are statistically significant .",
    "in general , the sources of noise can be divided into pixel - to - pixel noise ( which we refer to as `` sky '' noise ) and errors for the field as a whole ( `` systematic '' noise ) .",
    "the pixel - to - pixel noise is a combination of detector / photon noise along with real sky background fluctuations . for the 4um measurements ,",
    "photon noise is negligible .",
    "even with the minimum allowed integration time ( 1 cycle of 3 sec exposures = 48 sec ) , the sensitivity of mips is overwhelming ; even our dimmest source could theoretically be detected in just a few milliseconds .",
    "further , the background noise is low : galactic cirrus is weak at this wavelength ; the zodiacal emission is relatively smooth across the field of view ; and the confusion limit for distant extragalactic sources is just 0.056 mjy @xcite .    instead , for the 4um measurements , systematic errors dominate .",
    "the instrumental contribution to these errors is thought to be very low : 24  observations of calibrator stars are stable with 1% rms deviations over several months of observations @xcite .",
    "in addition to any residual instrumental problems , the dispersion in @xmath22 can include errors in the photosphere extrapolation and the effects of source variability .",
    "the fitting of the photosphere can be as precise as 2% when the best 2mass k@xmath23 photometry is available @xcite , but for stars brighter than k@xmath24 mag , 2mass data are less accurate and lower precision near - ir data and/or shorter wavelength observations must be used .",
    "extrapolation from visible data places considerably more weight on the photospheric models and may result in greater uncertainty in the predicted photospheric levels at 4um and 0um .",
    "while the relative contributions of instrumental and fitting errors to the 4um dispersion are unknown , it is clear that the photometry is currently limited to 7% accuracy due to their combined effects . while this may improve with further instrument analysis and better photospheric models , 3-@xmath0 detections of excess at 4um now require measured fluxes at least 20% above the stellar photosphere .",
    "only one of our sources ( hd69830 ) meets this requirement , with a strongly significant 45% excess .",
    "the relatively hot dust emission in this system , which is not yet known to have any planets , will be discussed in a separate paper @xcite .",
    "at 0um we planned the number of observing cycles ( each with 126 sec integration time ) so that the expected detector / photon noise would be @xmath20.1 of the stellar flux , or equivalently , to achieve a signal - to - noise ( snr ) @xmath2 10 on the stellar photosphere .",
    "integration times range from a few minutes up to 1 hour . within each reduced image",
    ", we estimate the sky noise by directly measuring the standard deviation in the background flux when convolved with our chosen aperture size . based on this measured sky noise",
    ", we find a median snr of @xmath26 , excluding the sources identified as having an excess .",
    "this noise estimate , however , includes contributions beyond just detector / photon noise . unlike at 4um",
    ", the fluctuations in the background at 0um can be significant .",
    "this background , a combination of galactic cirrus and extragalactic confusion , creates a noise floor for each field which can not be improved with increased integration time . to try to minimize this problem",
    ", the target stars in the volume limited sample came from areas of low galactic cirrus , as estimated from the iras sky survey atlas @xcite .",
    "the confusion limit for extragalactic background sources , however , is unavoidable and sets a strict lower limit for the sky noise at 0um .",
    "@xcite find a 5-@xmath0 confusion limit of 3.2 mjy based on source counts from  @xcite extrapolated to fainter fluxes with the model of @xcite . in our sample ,",
    "the lowest ( 1-@xmath0 ) noise levels observed toward stars located in clean portions of the sky are @xmath22 mjy , somewhat worse than dole et al.s best - case limit .",
    "this difference is attributable to the larger effective beam size used for our photometry / noise calculations . on top of the confusion limit , a few sources have higher noise values due to galactic cirrus and/or modestly worse than typical detector performance .",
    "in particular , hd168443 , located within 2.5 degrees of the galactic plane , shows extremely high levels of cirrus noise ( 30 mjy / aperture , approximately equal to the level predicted from the iras sky survey atlas ) and is not considered further .    while we can directly examine the overall background noise in each of our 0um images , the systematic error terms are more difficult to evaluate .",
    "these errors must certainly be as large as those in the 4um data since the photospheric fitting errors should be the same for both wavelengths . within our data",
    ", we find that the observed dispersion of fluxes at 0um is consistent with larger systematic errors than at 4um .",
    "we assume that the systematic errors in the 0um data are 15% of the stellar flux , about twice the dispersion in the 4um data .",
    "given the complex calibration required for the 0um germanium photoconductors , this is an excellent level of performance .    adding all of the noise sources ( photon noise , sky background , model fitting , and residual calibration issues ) together in quadrature gives us a final noise estimate for each 0um target . in table",
    "[ planetdata ] we list these noise levels , along with the measured and the photospheric fluxes , for each of the planet - bearing stars .",
    "we use these noise estimates to calculate @xmath25 , the statistical significance of any ir excess @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the measured flux , @xmath28 is the expected stellar flux , and @xmath29 is the noise level , all at 0um .",
    "the resultant histogram is shown in fig .",
    "[ chi70 ] . based on this criterion",
    ", we find that 6 out of 25 planet - bearing stars have a 3-@xmath0 or greater excess at 0um : hd33636 ( bd+04858 ) , hd50554 ( bd+241451 ) , hd52265 ( hr2622 ) , hd82943 , hd117176 ( 70 vir ) , and hd128311 ( gj3860 ) . of the remaining stars , 3-@xmath0 upper limits on any excess flux range from 0.1 to 1.9 times the stellar flux , with a median of upper limit of 0.7 @xmath28 .",
    "the focus of this paper is the planet - bearing stars ; the non - planet stars with excess will be discussed in a separate paper on the volume limited sample @xcite .",
    "[ images ] shows the 0um images for each of the six planet - bearing stars identified as having significant 0um excess .",
    "the full - width half - maximum for the telescope s point spread function at 0um is 17 ; there is no evidence for any emission extended beyond the point spread function .",
    "the background noise fluctuations are generally smooth across the field , with the exception of hd52265 which has obvious cirrus contamination concentrated toward the nw corner of the image . within the entire @xmath25@xmath302.5 arcmin mips field of view ,",
    "most of the images contain point sources other than the target star .",
    "some of these neighboring sources have corresponding 4um emission , while others are only detected at 0um .",
    "_ hd82943 : _ this is our strongest detection of an excess , with a 0um flux 15 times the stellar photosphere .",
    "the lack of excess at 4um requires the spectral energy distribution to rise steeply above the photosphere between 24 and 0um . as the brightest excess detection ( 113 mjy ) , this is the most promising candidate for follow - up detection at longer ir and sub - mm wavelengths .",
    "we also note that the claimed detection of @xmath31li in this star s atmosphere could be explained by the accretion of several @xmath32 of rock @xcite . while our observed ir excess implies that collisions could have recently showered the star with some solid material , it is not clear whether the magnitude of this accretion is large enough to account for the enhanced lithium abundance .    _",
    "hd33636 & hd50554 : _ these similar stars both have considerable excess at 0um ( @xmath27 times the stellar flux ) , but still only emit 33 and 40 mjy respectively .",
    "although dim , these systems may still be detectable at sub - mm wavelength if the dust is cold enough ( @xmath3340 k ) , and even upper limits at longer wavelengths would greatly help to constrain the dust temperature , and hence location .",
    "_ hd128311 : _ this star shows a definite detection above the photospheric level at 0um , but a high degree of galactic cirrus and/or anomalous instrument artifacts make follow - up observations important for determining the strength of the excess more accurately .",
    "the /irs spectrum for this source lies well below the low quality ( fqual=2 ) detection at 25  by iras and shows no evidence for an excess out to 30 .",
    "additional photometric measurements with mips are currently scheduled .    _",
    "hd117176 ( 70 vir ) : _ unlike all of our other stars with 0um excess , the accuracy of the flux measurements for this star are limited by systematic / fitting errors , rather than by sky noise .",
    "additional work to determine the source of the systematic errors will help quantify the overall noise level for this star .",
    "_ hd52265 : _ although this star has a high level of excess at 0um ( a factor of 4 above the stellar photosphere ) , this is our least statistically significant detection of excess due to a high level of galactic cirrus in the field .",
    "this noise ( 7.4 mjy ) unfortunately may not be greatly reduced with additional integration time .",
    "interestingly , this star happens to fall in the limited field of view of the future space - based telescope corot @xcite . as the only planet - bearing primary target for that mission",
    ", its visible emission will be monitored over an extended time period for any variability due to transiting objects .",
    "_ hd142 : _ this star has a flux twice that of the stellar photosphere , but the potential excess is only significant at the 2.4-@xmath0 level . a relatively short integration time was used ( 3 cycles ) resulting in above average background noise .",
    "additional follow - up observations of this star should clarify whether the excess is due to dust or is just a noise fluctuation .",
    "_ 55 ( @xmath34 ) cnc : _ with a measured flux of @xmath35 mjy ( compared to a predicted stellar flux of 18.2 mjy ) , we find no evidence for an ir excess .",
    "this is in contrast with a claimed detection of 60  excess by iso @xcite at the level of @xmath36 mjy .",
    "the original detection has more recently been attributed to background extragalactic sources based on sub - mm mapping of the region @xcite .",
    "we confirm the presence of two ( presumably ) extragalactic 0um sources located at 08:52:37 + 28:20:05 and 08:52:35 + 28:19:18 , which correspond to sub - mm sources 1 and 3 from @xcite .",
    "however , the 0um flux from these neighboring sources is small ; a beam large enough to enclose them makes little appreciable change in the total integrated flux .    _",
    "@xmath34 crb & hd210277 : _ along with 55 cnc , these stars were identified as having extended emission via coronographic measurements at visible wavelengths @xcite .",
    "we find no evidence for excess emission around either star at 24 or 0um .",
    "here we examine whether ir excess is correlated with stellar properties ( age , metallicity , spectral type ) and planet orbital characteristics ( planet mass , semi - major axis , eccentricity ) . the planet and star properties",
    "are summarized in tables [ planetparam ] and [ starparam ] .",
    "the planetary systems considered here all have at least one planet with mass greater than jupiter s and with semi - major axis smaller than jupiter s . considering this sample in aggregate",
    ", there is a clear trend between the presence of this type of planet and the detection of ir excess . within our sample",
    "we have found 6 stars with excesses out of the 25 planet - bearing stars for a detection rate of @xmath37% .",
    "this is much less than the excess detection rates for young stars ; @xcite observe that 60% of a - k stars younger than 400 myr have excess 60  emission , while @xcite similarly find that half of young a stars have excess 4um emission .",
    "analysis of iras and iso data suggests that the fraction of stars with excesses drops considerably with increasing age , however , particularly beyond 1 gyr @xcite .",
    "the nominal iras statistics suggest that excesses are found around just 10 - 15% of all main - sequence stars @xcite , a factor of two less than our detection rate .",
    "if ages older than 1 gyr are considered , the disparity in rates becomes more significant .",
    "iso surveys found excesses around only @xmath383% of stars older than 400 myr @xcite .",
    "this detection rate is similar to that found within our sample of stars not known to have planets @xcite . within this group , @xmath39% ( 6 out of 58 ) of the stars exhibit excess ir emission at 0um . among stars older than 1 gyr",
    ", the detection rate for stars with planets is more than double that for stars without .",
    "this tentative result would be consistent with the suggestion of @xcite that excesses due to kuiper belt material can have very long lifetimes .",
    "the apparent increase in frequency of dust disks around planet - bearing stars over stars without known planets implies that searches for dust disks might benefit from targeted searches of planet - bearing stars .",
    "the converse would also be true - planet searches , vis radial velocity or otherwise , may benefit from specifically targeting stars with ir excesses .",
    "this correlation is preliminary and will be examined closely as additional stars in this survey are observed .",
    "what kind of planets do stars with debris disks possess ?",
    "table [ planetparam ] and fig .  [ planetfig ] summarize the properties of the planetary systems .",
    "two of the systems with strong excesses have large planets on distant , eccentric orbits ( 9.3 @xmath40 at 3.6 au for hd33636 and 4.9 @xmath40 at 2.4 au for hd50554 ) .",
    "the system with strongest excess , hd82943 , has two moderate - sized planets with masses @xmath21 @xmath40 at 0.73 and 1.16 au .",
    "overall , however , the distribution of planets associated with ir excess is little different than for those without an excess . for every type of planet with ir excess",
    ", there are counter - examples without excess : for example , hd39091 has a large planet on a distant , eccentric orbit yet shows no dust emission .",
    "the only possible trend is that no systems with short - period planets ( @xmath150.25 au ) exhibit any ir excess , though the small - number statistics limit the strength of this conclusion .",
    "planets should affect the diffuse material in their immediate vicinity .",
    "the region under the direct gravitational influence of a planet at @xmath41 with eccentricity @xmath42 has a half - width of @xmath43 , where @xmath44 is the hill radius ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "for the planet orbiting hd33636",
    "( @xmath45=9.28@xmath40 , @xmath41=3.56 au , @xmath42=0.53 ) this directly perturbed region extends from 1 to 6 au where we have ignored the unknown inclination effect which enters only weakly into the hill radius .",
    "this zone would be cleared of any large objects that might provide a local source of dust generation .",
    "although dust could drift toward the planet from a distant belt of source bodies , jupiter - mass planets are efficient at gravitationally scattering this dust from their neighborhood @xcite . outside of the planet s region of direct influence ,",
    "substantial kuiper belt material could be present at distances @xmath4610 au and effective temperatures below 100 k , consistent with the cool excess ( no 4um emission ) seen toward these stars . additional  and ground - based submillimeter data are required to constrain the temperature and the physical distribution of this material @xcite .",
    "stellar ages cited in the literature for these stars span at least a factor of two , highlighting the difficulty in determining ages for mature , main sequence stars . whenever possible , we adopt ages from the compilation of @xcite which provides a uniform tabulation for 1200 stars based on ca ii h&k line strengths . while table [ starparam ] lists the ages for the planet - bearing stars , fig .",
    "[ ages ] gives a histogram for the larger sample , both with and without planets .",
    "there is no obvious age difference between the overall planet - bearing and non - planet bearing samples ; their median ages are 6 and 4 gyr respectively .",
    "the one outlier among the planet - bearing sample is hd128311 , which has no well - determined age .",
    "it is listed as a possible member of the uma moving group @xcite based on its chromospheric activity and its x - ray detection in the rosat all sky survey .",
    "both of these indicators suggest an age of 0.5 - 1 gyr . in fig .",
    "[ ages ] , the stars with excess are flagged with arrows , solid for planet - bearing stars and open for those without . with the exception of hd128311 , the planet - bearing stars with excesses are all much older than a billion years .",
    "the planet - bearing excess stars are slightly younger than the planet - bearing sample as a whole ( 4.4 vs. 6.0 gyr ) , but the difference is not statistically significant .",
    "any inverse correlation of age with amount of dust is much weaker than that observed in stars younger than 1 gyr ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "[ metals ] presents a similar histogram for the metallicity of stars with / without planets , again marking ir excess stars with arrows .",
    "the distribution of metallicities for planet - bearing stars ( dark grey ) is clearly different than for those without planets ( light grey ) .",
    "the typical metallicity of stars with planets is well known to be greater than solar @xcite so the fact that the average metallicity of these stars is slightly greater than solar , [ fe / h]@xmath47 with a dispersion of 0.19 , is no surprise .",
    "although the planet - bearing stars with excess have an average metallicity above solar , their average [ fe / h]=0.05 is below the planet - bearing average . comparing the stars with and without planets to their own samples",
    ", there is no evidence for higher metallicity resulting in a greater amount of ir emitting dust .",
    "unfortunately , our detections of ir excess provide only limited information about the properties of the dust in each system .",
    "ideally , we would like to determine the dust s temperature , mass , grain sizes , and overall distribution . because none of our sources are resolved ( see fig .",
    "[ images ] ) , we have no information on whether the dust disk has any asymmetric structure such as a warp , a centering offset , or general clumpiness .",
    "still , we can use the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) to provide some constraints on the dust properties . the most direct constraint provided by the sed",
    "is on the dust temperature , which then can be converted into a radial distance from the central star . as seen in fig .",
    "[ sedboth ] , 4um measurements provide an upper limit on the dust temperature , while sub - mm limits set a lower limit .",
    "because we usually have no information longward of 0um , however , only an upper limit on the temperature ( or an inner limit on the dust s orbital location ) can be derived .",
    "if a dust temperature is assumed , the observed flux can be translated into the total dust disk luminosity relative to its parent star .    for disks with detections of ir excess",
    ", a minimum dust luminosity can be calculated .",
    "using the blackbody formula for flux ( @xmath48 ) , for long wavelength radiation ( i.e.  on the rayleigh - jeans tail of the stellar blackbody curve ) , the ratio of dust to stellar fluxes becomes @xmath49 the minimum disk luminosity as a function of 0um dust flux can be obtained unambiguously by setting the emission peak at 0um ( or , equivalently , @xmath50k ) : @xmath51    consistent with this formula , fig .",
    "[ ldlstar ] shows constraints on @xmath3 and @xmath52 for hd82943 , the planet - bearing star with 0um flux a factor of 15 above the stellar photosphere .",
    "the lines in this figure are based on the 3-@xmath0 limits to the observed 24 and 0um fluxes .",
    "@xmath52 is meant to signify the typical emitting temperature for the dust ; in reality some range of temperatures will be found in any given system .",
    "for this star , our strongest detected excess , the minimum @xmath3 is relatively high - @xmath53 - more than two orders of magnitude above estimates for the kuiper belt s luminosity .",
    "( a listing of minimum @xmath3 for the other planet - bearing stars is given in table [ planetdata ] . )",
    "the dust temperature is well - constrained by the lack of 4um excess to be @xmath3370 k at the 3-@xmath0 level ( the cross - hatched region in fig .",
    "[ ldlstar ] ) or @xmath3360 k at the 1-@xmath0 level ( the solid - filled region ) .",
    "dust at lower temperatures showing greater emission at longer wavelengths can not be ruled out .",
    "sub - mm observations are critical to constraining the dust properties and thus the overall mass of the material responsible the the excess in these stars . fig .",
    "[ ldlstar2 ] shows the limits on the dust characteristics for a case where sub - mm data is available to help constrain the dust temperature on the low end .",
    "( @xcite observed hd117176 at 850 , measuring a flux of @xmath54 mjy . ) note that in order to set the most strict limits , we assume that the grains are small enough that their emissivity drops off as @xmath55 for long - wavelength radiation ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the sub - mm measurement does set a lower limit for the dust temperature , but because the 0um emission is not as strong as for the previous star , the upper limit on temperature is less strict .",
    "overall , the possible range of dust temperature and luminosity are much better constrained : 1-@xmath0 limits ( the solid - filled region in fig .",
    "[ ldlstar2 ] ) give @xmath56 to 100 k , @xmath57 to @xmath58 . for a temperature of 50 k",
    ", this disk brightness corresponds to a total dust surface area of @xmath2@xmath59-@xmath60 cm@xmath14 or , equivalently , a dust mass of @xmath2@xmath9-@xmath62 in 100  grains .",
    "the mass contained in larger planetesimals is even less certain . for stars with no detected emission ,",
    "a 3-@xmath0 upper limit on the fluxes leads to upper limits for @xmath3 of @xmath9 to @xmath6 , assuming a dust temperature of @xmath250 k ( again see table [ planetdata ] ) . for these stars we are setting limits of @xmath210 - 100 times the level of dust in our solar system .",
    "deeper integrations on these stars may result in detections of fainter excesses or improved upper limits , but extragalactic confusion or cirrus will set limits on the amount of detectable excess for these relatively distant stars .",
    "non - planet bearing stars in the vls are brighter and typically located in more cirrus - free regions , so that our @xmath3 limits for these objects tend to be more sensitive than for the planet - bearing stars reported here .",
    "/mips observations of 26 main - sequence fgk stars which are known to have planetary companions reveal 0um dust emission from 6 debris disks .",
    "these are the first examples outside the solar system of stars which have both well - confirmed planets and well - confirmed ir excesses .",
    "we conclude from this study that excesses at 0um are at least as common around planet - bearing f5-k5 stars as they are around the a - f stars first detected by iras .",
    "our finding is in contrast with @xcite , who found no overlap between stars with disks and stars with planets . in order to look for dust / planet systems",
    ", they observed a sample of 8 planet - bearing stars in the sub - mm , with no detections .",
    "the disks identified by , however , are considerably less massive than those detectable in the submillimeter . for example , in the case of @xmath12 eri , the ratio of 60  iras emission ( 1,600 mjy ) to 850  emission ( 40 mjy ) is 40:1 . if this same ratio applies to the sources seen here which have a typical 0um brightness of 35 mjy , the predicted submillimeter flux density would be @xmath21 mjy which is just the 1-@xmath0 noise limit for the scuba survey .",
    "six of the eight sub - mm sources are also in our target sample , allowing a direct comparison of  with scuba .",
    "in contrast with the sub - mm non - detections , five photospheres were observed with snr@xmath465 , and one star ( hd117176 , 70 vir ) was found to have significant 0um excess . while scuba follow - up",
    "observations of the sources detected here will be very important for constraining the temperature and total mass of dust , conclusions about the incidence of disks around planet - bearing stars require s higher sensitivity .    while excesses at 0um are relatively frequent in our survey , we find no evidence for excess at 4um around any of the planet - bearing stars .",
    "the lack of 4um emission in these systems is consistent with the previously known lack of warm material toward stars older than a few 100 myr @xcite . assuming peak 4um emission from 150 k dust and the observed dispersion ( @xmath63 )",
    ", we can set a 3-@xmath0 upper limit on @xmath3 for hotter dust of @xmath64 which is well above the @xmath8 level of emission from our asteroid belt , but well below the level seen toward young a stars such as @xmath5 pic or fomalhaut ( @xmath65 psa ) . as described above ,",
    "the lack of warm material is consistent with its destruction or dispersal by the gravitational effect of planets in the 1 - 5 au region @xcite .    for stars with a single measurement of excess at 0um ,",
    "the dust properties are not well constrained , but are generally consistent with kuiper belt configurations - distances of several tens of au and temperatures @xmath250 k. the observed dust luminosities ( relative to the central stars ) , however , are much brighter , exceeding the kuiper belt s @xmath3 by factors of @xmath2100 .    within the planet - bearing sample",
    "there is little to no correlation of 0um excess with stellar age , metallicity , or spectral type .",
    "but there is a strong hint of a positive correlation between both the frequency and the magnitude of dust emission with the presence of known planets .",
    "as more  observations of planet - bearing and non - planet - bearing stars are made , as part of this survey and in other programs , these statistics will become much better defined . additional radial velocity studies of stars with excesses but without presently known planets will test the predictive power of this correlation .",
    ", a. & malhotra , r. 2005 , in the dusty and molecular universe : a prelude to herschel and alma , meeting held in paris , france , october 27 - 29 , 2004 , eds .",
    ": a. wilson . to be published in esa conference series ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> as part of a large /mips gto program , we have searched for infrared excesses due to debris disks toward 26 fgk field stars known from radial velocity ( rv ) studies to have one or more planets . </S>",
    "<S> while none of these stars show excesses at 4um , we have detected 0um excesses around 6 stars at the 3-@xmath0 confidence level . </S>",
    "<S> the excesses are produced by cool material ( @xmath1 k ) located beyond 10 au , well outside the `` habitable zones '' of these systems and consistent with the presence of kuiper belt analogues with @xmath2100 times more emitting surface area than in our own planetary system . </S>",
    "<S> these planet - bearing stars are , by selection for rv studies , typically older than 1 gyr , and the stars identified here with excesses have a median age of 4 gyr . </S>",
    "<S> we find a preliminary correlation of both the frequency and the magnitude of dust emission with the presence of known planets . </S>",
    "<S> these are the first stars outside the solar system identified as having both well - confirmed planetary systems and well - confirmed ir excesses . </S>"
  ]
}