{
  "article_text": [
    "ngc  6822 is a dwarf irregular local group member .",
    "located at a distance of @xmath2 kpc @xcite , ngc 6822 is the most nearby dwarf irregular apart from the lmc / smc system . due to the small distance",
    "the galaxy appears very extended on the sky : its optical angular diameter is over a quarter of a degree ; the hi disk measures close to a degree @xcite .",
    "ngc  6822 is a member of an extended cloud of irregulars @xcite known as the `` local group cloud '' .",
    "the galaxy has a total luminosity of @xmath3 @xcite and a total hi mass of @xmath4 @xcite , making it relatively gas - rich .",
    "it is a metal poor galaxy , with an ism abundance of about 0.2 @xmath5 @xcite and has a star formation rate of @xmath6 ( based on h@xmath7 and fir fluxes ) @xcite .",
    "@xcite found evidence for increased star formation between 75 and 100 myr ago , while @xcite showed that the star formation in ngc 6822 increased by a factor of 2 to 6 between 100 and 200 myr ago .",
    "this is consistent with the mostly constant but stochastic recent star formation histories often derived for dwarf and lsb galaxies @xcite .",
    "ngc 6822 can be regarded as a rather average and quiescent dwarf irregular galaxy .",
    "@xcite found that the outer hi  disk is dominated by what appears to be a super - giant hi  shell with extended , apparently tidal features in the outer disk .",
    "in contrast , the inner main hi  disk is remarkably uniform and circularly symmetric .",
    "there is no evidence for large kinematical disturbances , as we will show in this paper .    in this paper",
    "we address the detailed dynamics and kinematics of ngc 6822 and derive high - resolution rotation curves of this dwarf galaxy .",
    "the physical resolution of our highest resolution curve is @xmath8 pc or @xmath9 where @xmath10 is the exponential scale length of the stellar disk ( see sect .  [",
    "sec : opt ] ) , making it the highest resolution hi  rotation curve of any undisturbed dwarf galaxy .",
    "in section  2 we summarize the `` small - scale crisis '' in current cosmological simulations .",
    "section  3 briefly describes the observations and data reduction , while sect .",
    "4 and 5 describe the derivation and analysis of the rotation curves in detail . in section 6",
    "we describe the models used in rotation curve fitting , while section 7 presents the results .",
    "section 8 discusses the results , and tries to fit them in the cdm picture .",
    "we summarize our conclusions in section 9 .",
    "cosmological numerical cold dark matter ( cdm ) simulations predict a specific and universal shape for the dark matter mass density distributions ( and therefore the rotation curves ) of galaxies @xcite .",
    "this was investigated in detail by @xcite who found that the mass - density distribution in the inner parts of simulated cdm halos could best be described by a @xmath11 power - law .",
    "this steeply increasing density cusp towards the center naturally translates into a steeply rising rotation curve .",
    "this kind of curve is however not observed in late - type disk galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the rotation curves of dwarf and low surface brightness ( lsb ) galaxies are shallow and rise linearly , more consistent with a dark matter distribution that is dominated by a constant - density core with a size of a few kpc @xcite . especially in the case of lsb galaxies there has been much discussion about the reality of the observed shallow curves @xcite . it was argued that systematic resolution effects ( `` beam - smearing '' ) could hide the steep cdm curves and lead to an erroneous conclusion that they would not be consistent with cdm .",
    "subsequent high - resolution follow - up studies , measuring the rotation curves of lsb galaxies in h@xmath7 at a resolution of @xmath12 to @xmath13 kpc have now confirmed the conclusions derived from the early data @xcite dwarfs and lsb galaxies seem to be dominated by a dark matter distribution that is best described in the inner parts by a powerlaw @xmath14 with @xmath15 @xcite .    with a spatial resolution of only @xmath1 pc ,",
    "the current data set enables us to measure the rotation curve of this dwarf galaxy at a resolution which is an order of magnitude better than the observations described above . among other things ,",
    "the high resolution makes it possible to investigate the effect beam size has on mass models and test whether the inferred distribution of dark matter depends on resolution .",
    "ngc6822 was observed with the australia telescope compact array for @xmath16 hours in its 375 ( 1 @xmath17 12h ) , 750d ( @xmath18h ) , 1.5a ( 4 @xmath17 12h ) , 6a and 6d ( @xmath19h ) configurations over the period from june 1999 to march 2000 .",
    "a total of 8 pointings was observed covering the entire hi extent of the galaxy .",
    "we used a bandwidth of 4 mhz with a channel separation of 0.8 @xmath20 . additionally , to obtain zero - spacing information , ngc 6822 was observed with the parkes single dish radio telescope using the multibeam receiver in its narrowband mode in december 1998 .",
    "the correlator configuration was identical to that used for the compact array observations .",
    "the data were reduced and mosaicked together using the miriad data reduction package .",
    "super - uniform weighting , reducing side lobes in individual pointings prior to mosaicing , was used .",
    "the resulting data cubes were cleaned with the miriad mossdi task .",
    "we combined the single dish and synthesis data to correct for the missing zero - spacings and produced data cubes at various spatial and velocity resolutions .",
    "for the rotation curve analysis presented here we use the data cubes with channel separations of 1.6 @xmath20  ( with an effective velocity resolution of 1.9 @xmath20 ) .",
    "these cubes gave the best compromise between velocity resolution and signal - to - noise .",
    "we analyzed the 1.6 @xmath20  data at five different spatial resolutions .",
    "the synthesized beam sizes used were @xmath21 , @xmath22 , @xmath23 , @xmath24 and @xmath25 .",
    "the position angle of the beam was 0@xmath26 at all resolutions",
    ". we will refer to the 5 different resolution data sets as b96 , b48 , b24 , b12 and b08 , respectively .",
    "table  1 gives some more information on the data sets .",
    "we retained the elliptical beamshape to obtain the highest possible resolution along the major axis .",
    "as the pa of the major axis of ngc 6822 is @xmath27 , as shown later , this means that the resolution along the major axis is to a few percent equal to the minor axis beam size .",
    "the large size of the galaxy compared to the beam rules out any beam smearing effects due to non - major axis information entering the beam .",
    "all subsequent analysis was done using the gipsy package .",
    "the low - resolution cube b96 was clipped at the @xmath28 level , and remaining noise peaks were removed by hand . then for b48 and subsequent resolutions , we used the @xmath28-clipped cube of the previous resolution as a mask , after which remaining spurious noise peaks were removed by hand .",
    "this ensures a consistent selection of features at all resolutions . furthermore using the lower resolution cube as a mask ensures that possible extended low - level structures are retained in the map .",
    "the integrated hi  surface density maps were made in the usual manner by adding together all clipped channel maps .",
    "as a second step we then isolated the high signal - to - noise ( s / n ) regions of the maps as follows .",
    "for uniformly tapered maps in velocity @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is the noise in a pixel in the integrated column density map , @xmath31 is the number of channels contributing to that pixel , and @xmath32 is the noise in one channel at that pixel .",
    "we constructed noise maps for each integrated column density map , and used these together with the column density maps to isolate those pixels in the column density maps where @xmath33 .",
    "these high @xmath34 maps were used as masks for the velocity fields .",
    "figure  [ b12mom0 ] shows the integrated column density map derived for the b12 data .",
    "there are two standard ways to produce a velocity field .",
    "one commonly used procedure is to determine the intensity weighted mean of the velocities along each profile .",
    "it is known that this method can produce spurious velocities at low resolution and low s / n ratios .",
    "given the high resolution and s / n of our data set , this is unlikely to be a problem here .",
    "an alternative method is to fit ( a ) gaussian(s ) to each profile .",
    "the latter method usually gives better results , as it is less affected by systematic effects due to skewed profiles etc .",
    "it is however computationally more expensive which becomes important for data cubes of the size we are dealing with here .",
    "the high quality of the current data puts us firmly in the regime where the intensity weighted mean gives accurate results .    to test this",
    "we have compared both methods for the b12 data set ( fig .",
    "[ compvelfie ] ) and find that for our data the differences are negligible .",
    "a histogram of the differences is very well described by a gaussian with an average of @xmath35 @xmath20  and an rms of @xmath36 @xmath20 , i.e. , both methods produce identical results to within better than a channel spacing . the number of pixels where the residuals reach @xmath37 @xmath20  or higher is only @xmath38 percent of the total number of pixels .    figure  [ majaxslice ] shows a major axis position velocity diagram of the b12 data , taken along a position angle of 120@xmath39 .",
    "over - plotted are the velocities as found in the intensity weighted and gaussian velocity fields .",
    "the velocity fields produce the same results , without large - scale systematic deviations",
    ". we will therefore proceed to use intensity weighted velocity fields in subsequent analysis",
    "the rotation curves were produced using the gipsy task rotcur . for a well - resolved and high s / n data set such as the current one ,",
    "the tilted ring procedure is by far the best way to determine the rotation curve .",
    "other methods which are often used , such as adjusting the tilted ring parameters by hand using position velocity diagrams as a guide ( e.g.  using the gipsy command inspector ) , are more subjective and results can depend on guesses on e.g.  the magnitude and effects of beam smearing .",
    "a look at fig .",
    "[ compvelfie ] shows that the high - resolution velocity fields contain an extra - ordinary amount of detail . to get a good feel for the large scale structure in ngc 6822 we started by deriving the b96 rotation curve , and used the results for each resolution as the initial estimate for the next higher resolution , thus gradually refining the curve .",
    "we adopted rings with a width of equal to the minor axis of the beam .",
    "the beam is elongated roughly along the minor axis of ngc 6822 with an effective radius of @xmath40 times the minor axis .",
    "a ring width equal to the minor axis is a good compromise between beam shape and complete sampling .",
    "most information contributing to the rotation curve comes from near the major axis where the beam is narrow .    in general",
    "the procedure involved making a fit with all parameters ( systemic velocity , centre position , position angle [ pa ] , inclination and rotation velocity ) free .",
    "the central position and systemic velocity were then fixed and several runs with either inclination or pa or both fixed were made to find the best model .    as the minor axis generally provides little information regarding the rotation curve we excluded an angle of 30@xmath39  around the minor axis from the fits .",
    "one usually also down - weights the data around the minor axis by applying a @xmath41 weighting , where @xmath42 is the angle with respect to the major axis in the plane of the galaxy .",
    "other alternatives are to apply a uniform weighting or a @xmath43 weighting .",
    "we have experimented with different weighting schemes as well as varying the exclusion angle around the minor axis between 15@xmath39  and 45@xmath39 , but found no difference in the curves produced ( this is due to the large number of independent points that _ do _ contribute at full weight around the major axis ) . we therefore adopt a uniform weighting scheme and a free angle around the minor axis of 30@xmath39 .    once a satisfactory curve using both sides of the velocity field was produced , we also calculated two curves using only the approaching and receding sides of the velocity field .",
    "comparing the three curves gives information about the symmetry of the system .",
    "for each resolution we derived the curve using the procedure described above .",
    "the results are shown in table  2 and fig .",
    "[ b96painclvrot ] .",
    "the trends found in pa and inclination for the different resolutions agree well with each other .",
    "only the b96 data does not show the pa trend as strongly .",
    "the variation of inclination with radius is only small ; only the highest resolutions show weak evidence of a slight warp in the outer parts : choosing a constant inclination instead therefore does only marginally affect the curves . the trend in pa",
    "is pronounced and real ; deriving curves with a constant pa results in velocities and inclinations that are inconsistent with the data , especially at the higher resolutions .",
    "the small - scale kinks in the inclination are not physical and mainly due to dispersion effects .    beyond @xmath44",
    "( 2.5 kpc ) the difference between the approaching and receding sides becomes more pronounced with increasing resolution .",
    "this radius corresponds to the edge of the inner hi  disk .",
    "the receding curve shows no significant features there , but the approaching curve shows a dip in velocity .",
    "this coincides with the interface between the main hi  disk and the nw cloud @xcite .",
    "however , at larger radii the receding curve converges with the approaching one , indicating that the galaxy and cloud ( nw side ) as well as the `` tails '' ( se side ) are embedded in one symmetrical halo .",
    "the global dynamics of the system appear undisturbed despite the morphology of the hi  .",
    "the small kink at @xmath45 ( 0.38 kpc ) is caused by a number of high velocity dispersion regions that over a small radial range happen to be aligned with the tilted rings . at @xmath46",
    "a similar small kink corresponds with the inner edge of the large hole .",
    "figure  [ b24majaxisoverlay ] shows an overlay of the rotation curve on various position - velocity slices . the rotation curve is a good representation of the dynamics of the galaxy as a whole .",
    "for all resolutions we have compared the velocity fields with model velocity fields constructed from the tilted ring fits , and find no systematic large scale residuals .",
    "figure  [ resvelfie ] compares the b12 velocity fields .",
    "there are only a few localised regions of slightly higher residuals in the higher resolution models , coinciding with regions of high velocity dispersion .",
    "other resolutions give similar results .",
    "the error - bars derived from the tilted ring fits are an indication of the scatter in velocity around the best - fitting velocity at each tilted ring . as such",
    "they do not take into account large - scale asymmetries , differences between approaching and receding sides etc . to define more realistic errors , we regard the absolute difference between the rotation velocities of the approaching and receding sides as @xmath28 errors .",
    "we adopt the maximum of the tilted ring uncertainties and the asymmetry uncertainties as our error - bars , with one further modification . in some cases",
    "both sides of the galaxy are very symmetrical , and these usually are also the radii where the tilted ring uncertainties are very small . these combine to give very small errors @xmath47 .",
    "we have therefore imposed a minimum error of half a channel width on the curves .",
    "after corrections for inclination this translates in a minimum error of @xmath48 @xmath20 .    in principle the hi  rotation curves also need to be corrected for the pressure gradients in the gas to derive the true rotation velocities .",
    "this correction for asymmetric drift is given by @xmath49 where @xmath50 is the true rotation velocity , @xmath51 the observed gas rotation velocity , @xmath52 the velocity dispersion in the gas , and @xmath53 the volume density .",
    "the median ( modal ) velocity dispersion in the disk of ngc 6822 is @xmath54 ( @xmath55 ) @xmath20 , as measured in the 1.6 @xmath20  channel spacing data , and does not show any obvious radial trends . assuming a constant scale height , we can derive the correction for asymmetric drift .",
    "we consider the b08 curves where , due to the large gradients in the hi  surface density , the corrections are largest .",
    "the corrected and uncorrected curves are shown in fig .",
    "[ assym ] . both curves are very similar , with the largest corrections of about @xmath56 occuring between 850@xmath57 and 1050@xmath57 .",
    "it should be kept in mind that the correction itself is also uncertain and depends on assumptions of e.g.  constant scale height , which may not hold in the outer parts of the gas disk .",
    "as the uncertainties due to asymmetric drift in the inner parts are negligible , ignoring them will not affect the results .",
    "based on this analysis , we decided not to apply this correction .",
    "the central position as derived above varies slightly from resolution to resolution .",
    "this is understandable given the different beam sizes .",
    "[ centerpos ] shows the central positions over - plotted on a b12 column density map of ngc 6822 , where the error - bars span the major and minor axis fwhm of the respective beams . also plotted",
    "are @xmath58-band 2mass ( see below ) and @xmath59-band isophotal centers . due to the large size , low galactic latitude and the irregular morphology the optical center in ngc 6822 is difficult to determine . from different fits performed at various isophotal levels",
    "we estimate an uncertainty of @xmath60 .",
    "these positions are offset from the dynamical center by about 105@xmath57 or @xmath61 kpc .    though the dynamical center is _ by definition",
    "_ the zero - point of the rotation curve , it is instructive to re - derive the rotation curve under the assumption that the optical center is the true center of the galaxy .",
    "this is implicitly assumed in many emission line observations of rotation curves where the optical center of the galaxy is frequently used to line up the slit of the spectrograph .",
    "we re - derived the b12 rotation curve fixing the position of the center to that of the optical center .",
    "we kept the run of position angle and inclination identical to that in the original model .",
    "[ optcenter ] over - plots the two curves .",
    "the overall shape of the curve is insensitive to the precise position of the center .",
    "the small - scale differences are of the same order of magnitude as the differences between the approaching and receding sides of the original curve .",
    "one should however not exaggerate the importance of this offset : had ngc 6822 been at a more typical distance of a few tens of mpc , then the angular size of the offset would only be @xmath62 and would have been unnoticed , where we determine the power - law slope @xmath7 of the mass - density profile @xmath14 within a radius of 0.8 kpc . for the b12 case",
    "we there find a slope of @xmath63 .",
    "for the curve presented here , determined using the optical center and also using an outer radius of 0.8 kpc , a similar analysis gives @xmath64 .",
    "the uncertainties are larger , but the value is consistent with a soft core in ngc  6822 . the exact position of the dynamical center does not significantly influence the results . ] .",
    "we used a mosaic of full - resolution 2mass @xmath65 images to derive the surface brightness profile of ngc 6822 .",
    "the orientation parameters and the centers of the tilted ring fits to the velocity fields were used to measure the average surface brightness at each radius .",
    "prior to the ellipse integration bright stars were masked out .",
    "the average surface brightness contribution of remaining foreground stars in the field away from ngc 6822 was determined and subtracted from the profile .",
    "the @xmath65 surface brightness of ngc 6822 is low and at large radii the scatter is substantial . at radii beyond @xmath66 the signal of the galaxy can no longer be distinguished from the sky background .",
    "[ kbandprof ] shows the azimuthally averaged surface brightness profile , corrected for inclination , determined using the b08 tilted ring parameters .",
    "the surface brightness was corrected for galactic foreground extinction , though this was only a small correction of 0.088 mag in the @xmath58-band .",
    "we assumed ngc 6822 to be optically thin in @xmath58 , and only applied a geometric inclination surface brightness correction .",
    "the profile can be well described by an exponential disk .",
    "as the outer parts of the profile could be marginally affected by small uncertainties in the sky background we have fitted an exponential disk to the profile at @xmath67 and find an exponential scale length of 286@xmath57 or 0.68 kpc .",
    "the central surface brightness is @xmath68 mag arcsec@xmath69 .",
    "the total absolute magnitude we derive assuming an exponential disk and extrapolating to infinity is @xmath70 or @xmath71 .    for each resolution",
    "we determine the surface brightness profiles using the relevant tilted ring parameters determined . at @xmath72",
    "we replace the surface brightness profiles with that of the exponential disk fit as indicated in fig .",
    "[ kbandprof ] .",
    "the rotation curve of the stellar disk was then computed from the extended @xmath58-band profile following @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the disk was assumed to have a vertical sech@xmath73 distribution with a scale height @xmath74 @xcite .",
    "the rotation curves of the stellar component were sampled at the same radii as the rotation curves .",
    "we assume @xmath75  is constant with radius . while one expects some modest variation in @xmath76 with radius in optical bands @xcite",
    ", the colour gradients in dwarf lsb galaxies in the @xmath58 band tend to be small , so this effect is not likely to be significant ( see also sect .",
    "[ sec : mlstar ] ) .",
    "we used the orientation parameters of the tilted ring fits to determine the azimuthally average hi  surface density profiles using the total column density maps for each resolution .",
    "the hi  surface density profiles are presented in fig .",
    "[ hiprof ] . in deriving the corresponding rotation curve with the gipsy task rotmod we scaled the surface density profiles by a factor of 1.4 to take the contribution of helium and metals into account .",
    "we assume that the gas is distributed in an infinitely thin disk .",
    "this assumption is not crucial .",
    "though one might expect dwarf galaxies to have a more puffed up disk than a typical spiral galaxy , the shape and amplitude of the gas rotation curve depends only very mildly on the thickness of the disk .    to use the b12 curve as an example , for the infinitely thin gas disk case the maximum rotation velocity of the gas component",
    "is @xmath77  @xmath20 .",
    "when increasing the thickness of the disk , this maximum rotation velocity drops only very slowly : for an exponential scale height @xmath78 kpc , it still measures @xmath79  @xmath20 .",
    "this value for @xmath80 is already approaching the value of the radial scale length of the stellar distribution and likely already too large .",
    "we thus adopt the thin disk approximation .",
    "the dark halo component differs from the previous two in that we are interested in parametrising this component assuming some fiducial model .",
    "the choice of this model is the crux of most of the dm analyses in the literature , and many models exist .",
    "these can all be broadly distinguished in two groups : halo models with a core , and halo models with a cusp .",
    "an example of the first category is the pseudo - isothermal halo , an example of the latter the cdm nfw halo .",
    "the spherical pseudo - isothermal ( iso ) halo has a density profile @xmath81 where @xmath82 is the central density of the halo , and @xmath83 the core radius of the halo .",
    "the corresponding rotation curve is given by @xmath84 } .\\ ] ] the asymptotic velocity of the halo , @xmath85 , is given by @xmath86 to characterise this halo only two of the three parameters @xmath87 are needed , as equation ( 3 ) determines the value of the third parameter .",
    "the nfw mass density distribution takes the form @xcite @xmath88^{2}}\\ ] ] where @xmath89 is the characteristic radius of the halo and @xmath82 the characteristic density @xcite .",
    "this mass distribution gives rise to a halo rotation curve @xmath90}\\right]^{1/2},\\ ] ] where @xmath91 .",
    "it is characterised by a concentration parameter @xmath92 and a radius @xmath93 .",
    "these are directly related to @xmath94 and @xmath95 , but are used instead as they are a convenient way to parametrise the rotation curve .",
    "the radius @xmath93 is the radius where the density contrast exceeds 200 , roughly the virial radius @xcite .",
    "the characteristic velocity @xmath96 of the halo is defined in the same way as @xmath93 .",
    "these parameters are not independent and are set by the cosmology .",
    "one of largest uncertainties in any mass model is the value of the stellar mass - to - light ratio @xmath75 . though broad trends in @xmath75   have been measured and modelled ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the precise value for an individual galaxy is not well known , and depends on extinction , star formation history , initial mass function , etc .",
    "the value of @xmath75  can not be constrained using the rotation curve alone @xcite and some assumptions must be made .",
    "we therefore present disk - halo decompositions using four different assumptions .",
    "* minimum disk .",
    "* this model assumes that the observed rotation curve is due entirely to dm .",
    "this gives an upper limit on how concentrated the dark mass component can actually be .",
    "it is not a realistic model _ per se _ , because it ignores the gas disk which is obviously present .",
    "however , we present it here for ease of comparison with cosmological simulations , a large fraction of which tend to only model the dark matter component .",
    "* minimum disk + gas . *",
    "the contribution of the atomic gas ( hi and he ) is taken into account , but @xmath75  is assumed to be zero .",
    "* constant @xmath75 . * here we choose a value for @xmath75appropriate for ngc 6822 based on its stellar content , colours and likely star formation history .",
    "unfortunately reliable integrated colours for ngc 6822 are rare due to its large angular size .",
    "we can however use indirect arguments to arrive at a value for @xmath75 .",
    "furthermore we are interested here only in the @xmath58-band value which is rather insensitive to effects of extinction and recent star formation .",
    "@xcite presents @xmath97-band rotation curve fits of a large sample of hsb and lsb galaxies in the ursa major cluster .",
    "we consider the rotation curve fits derived using the bottema disk prescription @xcite .",
    "this recipe states that the maximum rotation velocity of the disk is 63% of the maximum rotation velocity observed ( and is derived from measurements of stellar velocity dispersions ) .",
    "the distribution of @xmath98 ratios derived with the bottema disk for the dwarf and lsb galaxies in the uma sample peaks at @xmath99 . if the colours of ngc 6822 are comparable to those found for other dwarfs and lsb galaxies ( namely @xmath100 , @xmath101 and @xmath102 ; @xcite ) we can use table 3 in @xcite to derive an approximate value for @xmath75 . for their formation epoch model with burst",
    "we find values for @xmath98 between 0.35 and 0.40 .",
    "similar values are found for the infall models and the hierarchical models . from detailed population synthesis modelling of ngc 6822 ,",
    "@xcite find that the total mass of stars and stellar remnant ever formed in ngc 6822 must be @xmath103 @xmath104 .",
    "combined with the @xmath58-band luminosity derived earlier , this gives a value @xmath105 .",
    "taking the above into account we adopt a value of @xmath106 as representative of the stellar population in ngc 6822 .    * maximum disk .",
    "* the rotation curve of the stellar component is scaled to the maximum value allowed by the observed rotation curve , but with the restriction that the dm density gradient is required to be flat or negative at all radii ( thus avoiding a `` hollow halo '' ) @xcite .",
    "each of the rotation curves was fitted using the gipsy task rotmas .",
    "the program determines the best - fitting combination of @xmath83 and @xmath85 ( for the pseudo - isothermal halo ) or @xmath107 and @xmath96 ( for the nfw halo ) , using a least squares fitting routine .",
    "we assigned weights to the data points inversely proportional to the square of their uncertainty .",
    "figures [ curves96]-[curves08 ] show the rotation curves at all resolutions plotted for the four assumptions on @xmath75  for both nfw and iso halo models . to rule out the possibility that the outer parts of ngc 6822 , which might be affected by tidal effects , affect our conclusions we also present separate fits to just the inner part of the galaxy out to to @xmath108 ( 2.4 kpc ) or the edge of the main inner disk .",
    "tables  [ nfwfits ] and [ isofits ] present the fit parameters for all models presented here .",
    "an inspection of tables [ nfwfits ] and [ isofits ] shows that the goodness - of - fit is in all cases better for iso than for nfw .",
    "the only exceptions are some of the maximum disk fits where both iso and nfw are difficult to fit , as ngc 6822 is not a maximum disk galaxy . a comparison between the @xmath109 values is shown in fig .  [ chi2 ] .",
    "the maximum disk values of @xmath75  generally have an uncertainty of @xmath110 . changing the values within this range",
    "has no discernible effect on the quality of the fits .",
    "one point of note is that for the b08 case the maximum disk value for @xmath76 is less than that for the constant @xmath75  case .",
    "the b08 constant @xmath75fit thus results in a hollow halo .",
    "many of the nfw fits have fit parameters that do not make physical sense .",
    "the large majority of the fits prefer @xmath111 and @xmath112 , which is another way of saying that the fit procedure is trying to fit a @xmath113 curve to a @xmath114 curve by stretching it to infinity , thus trying to take out the curvature in the model .",
    "where this happened we fixed the @xmath107 parameter to @xmath115 with only @xmath96 as the free parameter .",
    "such a value is still outside the range predicted by cosmological simulations where values of @xmath116 would be expected .",
    "there is a general trend for the value of the maximum disk @xmath76 to decrease with increasing resolution .",
    "it is not clear what the cause of this effect is .",
    "the inner slopes of the rotation curve and stellar curve change subtly with resolution , but not enough to be the sole cause .",
    "it is likely that small differences between the tilted ring models also play a role .",
    "we note that at all resolutions we find that ( restricting ourselves to the iso model for a moment ) the min+gas model usually has the smallest value of @xmath109 , and that for all cases @xmath117 .",
    "we have tried to constrain the value of @xmath76 by making a `` best fit '' to the rotation curves using iso models : i.e.we also let @xmath76 be a free parameter in the fits .",
    "unfortunately the different resolutions make it difficult to constrain @xmath76 in this manner .",
    "the b96 data is best fitted with a stellar component with @xmath118 , while the b48 and b24 curves both demand @xmath119 . for the b08 and b12 data",
    "such a `` best fit '' gives unphysical results ( negative @xmath76 ) .",
    "a constrained fit with @xmath120 yields @xmath121 ( i.e.  the minimum disk+gas case ) as best fit for these resolutions .",
    "though it is clear that @xmath76 is difficult to constrain using only rotation curve information , the results do suggest that the stellar population is dynamically unimportant .",
    "with the high - resolution rotation curves we can determine the inner slope of the mass - density distribution .",
    "the rationale behind this is described in @xcite . in summary ,",
    "the various halo models make specific predictions about the slope of the dark matter mass density distribution in the inner parts .",
    "if we approximate this distribution with a power - law @xmath14 , then the iso halo predicts @xmath122 , while the nfw halo predicts @xmath123 . in @xcite the inner mass density slopes of a large sample of lsb galaxies was derived , and the most representative value was @xmath124 , i.e.  closer to pseudo - isothermal than to cdm .    here",
    "we derive the slopes of the mass density distribution of ngc 6822 at various resolutions using the inversion method described in @xcite where we compute the mass density profile and fit a power - law to the mass - density profile .",
    "[ profiles ] shows two examples .",
    "we show the b96 and b24 mass - density profiles , with the best fitting nfw and iso ( minimum disk ) models over - plotted .",
    "the nfw models have central densities that are discrepant by a factor of 10 or more .",
    "we measure the slope within @xmath125 kpc .",
    "this is an arbitrary choice , motived by the fact that we want to use at least 3 data points to determine the slope of the b96 curve .",
    "other choices are obviously possible , and may result in slightly different values of the slope , but will not affect the conclusions .",
    "the resulting values are given in table  [ slope ] .",
    "for the b08 data a meaningful slope could not be derived due to the large gradients in the rotation velocity that are found at small scales .",
    "the values are at all resolutions significantly different from the nfw values .",
    "note that there is no systematic steepening of the slope with resolution , which one would expect if the cusp was hidden by resolution effects . with a resolution of only tens of parsecs",
    "it is not clear that there is still room for a cusp in ngc 6822 .      in the previous sections we have made nfw fits to the rotation curves disregarding any of the predictions that cdm makes for @xmath107 , @xmath96 and their relation .",
    "we will compare the observed rotation curve with cosmological predictions .",
    "if we assume that @xmath126 @xmath20 , we find for @xmath127cdm that @xmath128 @xcite .",
    "the total mass @xmath129 of this halo is @xmath130 @xmath104 .",
    "this predicted halo is over - plotted on the observed curve in fig .",
    "[ cosmohalo ] , and over - predicts the rotation velocity in the inner parts by a significant amount .    to look at the problem from a different perspective ,",
    "let us assume @xmath75=0.35 .",
    "this gives a stellar mass @xmath131 .",
    "the total ( atomic ) gas mass is @xmath132 ( hi+he ) and the total observed baryonic mass is @xmath133 .",
    "a universal baryon fraction of @xmath134 ( see e.g.  ) implies a total mass @xmath135 . for a nfw halo",
    "this implies @xmath136 @xmath20  and @xmath137 kpc .",
    "these values are not consistent with the observed curve , and imply ( apart from the inability of the model to fit the data ) that either the baryon fraction in ngc 6822 differs significantly from the universal value or that large amounts of baryons have been expelled , as we will discuss below in more detail .",
    "let us work out the _ observed _ matter fractions in ngc 6822 .",
    "we use the iso models , and determine the amount of dark matter within a radius of 5 kpc , the outer edge of the hi  disk .",
    "this yields a total dark mass out to 5 kpc of @xmath138 . with an observed baryonic mass of @xmath139",
    "we find that ngc 6822 is heavily dark matter dominated with @xmath140 .",
    "this is comparable to values found in lsb galaxies and other dwarf galaxies ( de blok & mcgaugh 1997 ) .",
    "the corresponding baryon fraction is @xmath141 , close to the universal baryon fraction .",
    "the visible matter in ngc 6822 is thus a minor component of the total galaxy system .",
    "this makes it harder to explain the observed core - dominated dark matter distribution as resulting from a nfw halo modified by feedback .",
    "the term feedback is often used indiscriminately to indicate star formation and evolutionary processes that affect the mass distribution in a galaxy .",
    "in fact , there are two distinct forms of feedback . one of them is commonly observed in galaxies , also in ngc 6822 , and usually shows itself as small - scale redistribution of mass in the disk .",
    "the second form of feedback is more catastrophic , mostly theoretical , and was introduced to explain the discrepancy between observed and theoretical dark matter distributions .",
    "in essence it invokes large - scale and violent star formation , resulting in massive blow - outs that drag dark matter out due to gravitational interactions , thus destroying the primordial cdm cusp . the exact physics of feedback",
    "are not understood , and the models usually resorts to an empirical description that is fine - tuned to e.g.  fit the tully - fisher relation or other observational constraints .",
    "nevertheless , let us explore the implications of feedback : using the amount of energy produced by supernovae and making some standard assumptions one can work out an expression for the amount of matter expelled by the effects of supernovae ( see e.g.  eq .",
    "( a4 ) in @xcite ) .",
    "feedback then requires the baryonic mass to drag along a similar amount of dark matter ( modulo some efficiency factor that is unlikely to be much larger than unity ) .",
    "assuming cdm halos , we find for @xmath142 @xmath20  that @xmath143 .",
    "equation a4 in @xcite then yields that the expelled baryonic mass is @xmath144 . assuming that the efficiency factor is unity ( every unit mass of baryons drags along one unit mass of dark matter ) we find that the amount of dark matter relocated is about equal to the amount of dark matter currently observed within the outermost radius of the observed disk .",
    "we are thus dealing with a major structural re - organisation of a galaxy .",
    "even if we assume the maximum possible maximum disk @xmath75=0.95 we still only find an observed baryonic mass of @xmath145 ( though not physically motivated , this is a hard upper limit on the observed baryonic mass ) .",
    "assuming an efficiency factor of unity , it seems ngc 6822 must have expelled over @xmath146 times its currently observed baryonic mass .",
    "there has been some discussion in the past whether or not stellar feedback can remove a significant fraction of the mass of a galaxy to the intergalactic medium .",
    "@xcite , as well as @xcite showed that this process is unable to explain the observed cores , and is also inconsistent with other observational constraints .",
    "according to numerical simulation of stellar feedback by @xcite the potential mass loss is a function of the total galaxy mass ; for galaxies with gas masses @xmath147 a galaxy can potentially destroy iself ( ` blow - away ' scenario ) whereas for gas masses between @xmath148 and @xmath149 some material may be removed ( ` blow - out ' , see their fig .",
    "1 ) . according to these models we do not expect signifcant mass loss in ngc 6822 ( @xmath150 ) due to violent star formation .    from an observer s perspective",
    ", there is relatively little evidence that mass loss does indeed occur in dwarf galaxies .",
    "although strong outflow signatures are observed in some cases in dwarf galaxies there are only few cases where outflow material may permanently escape the galactic gravitational potential ( e.g.  @xcite ) .    a further problem with expelling a lot of mass are the global dynamics of the galaxy :",
    "if one were to have a huge mass loss of order a few times the total galaxy mass , one would certainly expect to find some clear evidence in the velocity field .",
    "the blown - out gas is such a case unlikely to end up as an undisturbed regularly rotating hi  disk .",
    "furthermore , the stellar record shows no evidence for increases in the sfr with large factors at any time during the past @xmath151 gyr @xcite .",
    "it thus seems somewhat surprising that if feedback had occurred , it would have managed to hide all traces of a violent past .    in summary",
    ", we conclude that potential feedback of several times the total baryonic mass of ngc6822 is unlikely .",
    "the observed rotation curve of ngc 6822 , combined with the @xmath58-band and hi  data thus lead to a picture inconsistent with a combination of cuspy halo and feedback .",
    "we obtained high resolution rotation curves for the local group dwarf irregular galaxy ngc 6822 . by fitting both pseudo - isothermal and nfw halo models",
    ", it was found that the pseudo - isothermal model fits the data successfully .",
    "ngc 6822 is not maximum disk and is dominated by dark matter .",
    "the highest resolution rotation curve has some 250 independent points and beam - smearing effects are not an issue .",
    "the position of the dynamical center is unambiguously determined .",
    "there is no indication of a dark matter cusp down to scales of @xmath1 pc .    trying to explain the observed curve with a combination of feedback and cdm halos leads to several inconsistencies .",
    "feedback and cdm seem to imply that ngc 6822 has lost about 6 times the currently observed amount of baryons .",
    "there is however no evidence for such violent processes .",
    "we therefore conclude that ( i ) the dark matter distribution in ngc 6822 is unlikely to have been affected by feedback , and ( ii ) is best described by a model with a constant density core .",
    "we thank steve schneider for providing us with the 2mass images .",
    "we thank sbastien blais - ouellette for constructive comments that helped improve this paper .",
    "this publication makes use of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "bell , e.f . ,",
    "de jong , r.s . ,",
    "2000 , mnras , 312 , 497 bottema , r. , 1997 , a&a , 328 , 517 begeman , k. , 1987 , phd thesis , university of groningen blais - ouellette , s. , amram , p. , carignan , c. , 2001 , aj , 121 , 1952 bolatto , a.d . ,",
    "simon , j.d . ,",
    "leroy , a. , blitz , l. , 2002 , apj , 565 , 238 bullock , j.s . , kolatt , t.s . , sigad , y. , somerville , r.s . ,",
    "kravtsov , a.v . , klypin , a.a . ,",
    "primack , j.r . , & dekel , a. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 559 casertano , s. 1983 , mnras , 203 , 735 bosma , a. , de blok , w.j.g . , 2002 ,",
    "a&a , 385 , 816 de blok , w.j.g . , mcgaugh , s.s . , 1997 , mnras , 290 , 533 de blok , w.j.g . , walter , f. , 2000 , in `` mapping the hidden universe : the universe behind the milky way - the universe in hi .",
    "'' asp conference proceedings , vol .",
    "218 , edited by rene c. kraan - korteweg , patricia a. henning , and heinz andernach .",
    "astronomical society of the pacific , isbn 1 - 58381 - 050 - 1 , 2000 , p.357 de blok w.j.g . , van der hulst j.m . ,",
    "bothun g.d . , 1995 , mnras , 274 , 235 de blok , w.j.g . ,",
    "mcgaugh , s.s , rubin , v. , 2001 , aj , 122 , 2396 de blok , w.j.g . ,",
    "mcgaugh , s.s , bosma , a. , rubin , v. , 2001 , apjl , 552 , l23 de blok , w.j.g . , walter , f. , 2001 , apj , 537 , l95 de jong , r.s . , 1996 , a&a , 313 , 377 dubinski , j. , carlberg , r.g . , 1991 , apj , 378 , 496 gallart , c. , aparicio , a. , bertelli , g. , chiosi , c. 1996b , aj , 112 , 2596 gerritsen , j.p.e . , de blok , w.j.g , 1999 , a&a , 342 , 655 gnedin , o.y . , zhao , h - s , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 299 grebel , e.k . , 2001 , apsss , 277 , 231 hodge , p.w .",
    ", 1980 , apj , 241 , 125 hodge , p. , smith , t. , eskridge , p. , macgillivray , h. , beard , s. 1991 , apj , 379 , 621 israel , f.p . , bontekoe , tj.r . , kester , d.j.m , 1996 , a&a , 308 , 723 lake , g. , feinswog , l. 1989 , aj , 98 , 166 mac low , m .- m . , ferrara , a. , 1998 , apj , 513 , 142 mateo , m.l .",
    "1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435 martin , c.l . , 1998 , apj , 506 , 222 mcgaugh , s.s . ,",
    "rubin , v. , de blok , w.j.g . , 2000 ,",
    "apj , submitted moore , b. 1994 , nature , 370 , 629 navarro , j.f . ,",
    "frenk , c.s . , white , s.d.m .",
    "1996 , apj , 462 , 563 navarro , j.f . ,",
    "frenk , c.s .",
    ", & white , s.d.m .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 493 skillman , e.d . ,",
    "terlevich , r. , melnick , j. 1989 , mnras , 240 , 563 swaters , r.a . , 1999 , phd thesis , university of groningen swaters , r.a . ,",
    "madore , b.f .",
    ", trewhella , m. , 2000 , apjl , 531 , l107 van albada , t.s , sancisi , r. , 1986 , phil .",
    "a , 320 , 447 van der kruit , p.c . , & searle , l. 1981 , a&a , 95 , 105 van den bosch , f.c . ,",
    "robertson , b.e .",
    ", dalcanton , j.j .",
    ", de blok , w.j.g . , 2000 ,",
    "aj , 119 , 1579 verheijen , m.a.w . ,",
    "phd thesis , university of groningen white , d.a . ,",
    "fabian , a.c .",
    ", 1995 , mnras , 273 , 72"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present high resolution rotation curves of the local group dwarf irregular galaxy ngc 6822 obtained with the australia telescope compact array . </S>",
    "<S> our best curves have an angular resolution of @xmath0 or 20 pc and contain some 250 independent points . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar and gas components of ngc 6822 can not explain the shape of the curve , except for the very inner regions , and ngc 6822 is consequently very dark matter dominated . </S>",
    "<S> there is no evidence for the presence of a steep density cusp down to scales of @xmath1 pc , contrary to the predictions of cold dark matter .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : individual ( ngc 6822 ) - galaxies : dwarf - galaxies : fundamental parameters - galaxies : kinematics and dynamics - local group - dark matter </S>"
  ]
}