{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf spheroidal ( dsph ) galaxies of the local group provide critical tests of theories of structure formation in the universe .",
    "the number density of dwarfs in the vicinity of the milky way ( mw ) poses a problem for theories based on cold dark matter ( klypin et al .",
    "1999 ; moore et al .",
    "in particular , @xmath1cdm @xmath0-body simulations predict a few hundred dwarf galaxies in the local group while only a few tens are observed .",
    "their numbers , distribution , internal dynamics and density profiles have important implications also for other issues like gravitational lensing and dark matter ( dm ) detection experiments .",
    "a number of solutions to the problem have been proposed ( for a recent review see kravtsov , gnedin & klypin 2004 ) , but since the degree of discrepancy with the models depends on precise knowledge of dwarf galaxy masses one of the important issues is to accurately determine the masses .",
    "it is now generally believed that galactic dsph galaxies are dominated by dm , but it is still debated to what extent their large velocity dispersions are due to their high dm content and how much they can be contaminated by the presence of unbound stars",
    ".    the unbound stars may originate from the dwarf itself due to tidal stripping in the potential of the giant host galaxy around which the dwarf orbits or from the stellar populations of the host galaxy .",
    "the latter source of contamination can be dealt with by careful photometric analysis .",
    "recent studies have shown that restricting the target stars for spectroscopic observations by the colour - magnitude diagram of the dwarf galaxy does not solve the problem ( kleyna et al .",
    "2002 ) but additional colour - colour diagrams can help distinguish between the dwarf galaxy giant star population and the mw dwarf stars ( majewski et al . 2000a ; muoz et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "the contamination due to tidally stripped stars however remains poorly understood although convincing evidence for the presence of tidal tails exists for some dsph galaxies .",
    "majewski et al . (",
    "2000b ) and muoz et al .",
    "( 2006 ) find a significant excess of carina member stars above the nominal king radius while coleman et al .",
    "( 2005 ) find excess number density of stars around fornax depending on the direction of the measurements .",
    "martnez - delgado et al . ( 2001 ) detected the tidal extension in the ursa minor dwarf and gmez - flechoso & martnez - delgado ( 2003 ) modelled the properties of tidal tails in this galaxy to estimate its mass - to - light ratio .",
    "detection of tidal tails remains extremely hard though due to very low surface brightness of the tails and critical dependence on the assumed background level which is very difficult to estimate reliably .",
    "modelling of the dsph kinematics by the jeans analysis is still the major tool to determine their mass content .",
    "these are usually performed on stellar samples selected by a simple cut - off in velocity ( with respect to the mean systemic velocity of the dwarf ) or on stars with velocities within 3 standard deviations from the mean ( e.g. wilkinson et al .",
    "in the recent study of the draco dsph okas , mamon & prada ( 2005 ) using the sample selected by wilkinson et al . and modelling both the dispersion and kurtosis of the line - of - sight velocity distribution showed that no realistic , consistent solution to the jeans equations can be found unless some stars are rejected from the sample .",
    "along the same lines , muoz et al .",
    "( 2006 ) argued that for all of the detected carina stars to be bound the dwarf would have to possess an enormous mass - to - light ratio of a few thousand solar units .",
    "these arguments strongly suggests the presence of unbound stars in the traditionally selected samples .",
    "the purpose of this work was to study the origin of unbound stars and test the methods of dealing with them using @xmath0-body simulations .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section  2",
    "we describe the simulation details .",
    "section  3 presents the main properties of the simulated dwarf at its final stage . in section  4",
    "we describe the creation of the mock kinematic data and apply a method for interloper removal to data sets contaminated by the tidally stripped stars and the stellar populations of the mw .",
    "results of fitting the models to the cleaned data are presented in section  5 . in section  6",
    "we apply the developed procedure to the real data for the fornax dsph galaxy .",
    "the discussion follows in section  7 .",
    "the ` tidal stirring ' model originally proposed by mayer et al .",
    "( 2001 ) constitutes a viable mechanism for producing the majority of dsphs in the local group .",
    "these authors performed @xmath0-body simulations of the dynamical evolution of dwarf galaxies in a mw potential and concluded that the dsph progenitors were rotationally supported low surface brightness dwarf systems that were accreted by the dm halo of the dominant spiral galaxy at early times .",
    "strong gravitational interactions with the primary host potential at pericentre heat the stellar disks and produce objects whose stellar structure and kinematics resemble those of dsph galaxies .",
    "very recently , variants of this model have been shown to successfully explain properties such as the morphology - density relation and the extreme mass - to - light ratios inferred for some of the dwarfs ( mayer et al .",
    "2006 , 2007 ) .    in this investigation",
    ", we adopt the tidal stirring model of mayer et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and perform a high - resolution @xmath0-body simulation of a dwarf disk - like system orbiting within the static host potential of a mw - sized galaxy .",
    "our approach thus neglects the effects of dynamical friction and the response of the primary to the presence of the satellite .",
    "however , this choice is justified because orbital decay times are expected to be longer than the hubble time given the difference in mass between the two systems and the additional mass loss due to tidal stripping ( mayer et al .",
    "2001 ; hayashi et al . 2003 ; kazantzidis et al . 2004 ) .",
    "live dwarf galaxy models are constructed using the technique by hernquist ( 1993 ) and consist of an exponential stellar disk embedded in a spherical and isotropic navarro et al .",
    "( 1997 , hereafter nfw ) dm halo .",
    "the structural properties of dark haloes and disks are motivated by the currently favoured concordance ( @xmath2 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 ) cosmological model ( mo , mao & white 1998 ) .",
    "the density distribution of the nfw profile is given by @xmath5 where @xmath6 is a characteristic inner density and @xmath7 denotes the scale radius of the system .",
    "the nfw density law has a cumulative mass profile that diverges at large radii . in order to keep the total mass finite , we model the halo density profile beyond the virial radius of the system , @xmath8 , using an exponential cutoff ( kazantzidis et al .",
    "the concentration parameter @xmath9 controls the shape of the halo density profile .",
    "the stellar disk follows an exponential distribution in cylindrical radius @xmath10 and its vertical structure is modelled by isothermal sheets @xmath11 where @xmath12 , @xmath13 and @xmath14 denote the mass , radial scale length , and vertical scale height of the disk , respectively . in our modelling",
    ", we parametrize the disk mass to be a fraction @xmath15 of the halo virial mass , @xmath16 , and we specify the disk vertical scale height in units of the radial disk scale length .",
    "once a set of cosmological parameters is adopted , the virial quantities @xmath17 and @xmath8 are uniquely determined by the halo circular velocity at the virial radius , @xmath18 ( mo et al .",
    "furthermore , the dm halo carries some net angular momentum specified by the dimensionless spin parameter , @xmath19 , where @xmath20 and @xmath21 are the total halo angular momentum and energy , respectively .",
    "we follow springel & white ( 1999 ) and distribute the angular momentum of the dm halo by setting the halo streaming velocity to be a fixed fraction of the local total circular velocity .",
    "our models implicitly assume that the disk forms out of collapsed gas which started with the same specific angular momentum as the halo and that such angular momentum was conserved during infall ( mo et al .",
    "finally , the dm halo is adiabatically contracted in response to the growth of the stellar disk under the assumptions of spherical symmetry , homologous contraction , circular dm particle orbits , and angular momentum conservation ( blumenthal et al .",
    "adiabatic contraction allows to construct _ nearly _ self - consistent disk galaxy models ( see kazantzidis et al .",
    "2006 for a complete discussion ) .",
    "for further details on the adopted modelling we refer the reader to hernquist ( 1993 ) and kazantzidis et al .",
    "( 2006 ) .",
    "the dwarf galaxy halo has a virial velocity of @xmath22 , implying a virial mass and radius of @xmath23 and @xmath24 respectively , and a concentration of @xmath25 , resulting in a scale radius of @xmath26 and a maximum circular velocity of @xmath27 .",
    "the latter value is in the range of those inferred for some of the progenitors of dsphs from high resolution @xmath0-body simulations ( kazantzidis et al .",
    "2004 ; kravtsov et al .",
    "after entering the host potential , @xmath28 will decrease due to mass loss processes .",
    "moreover , once the scatter in halo concentrations reflecting the different formation epochs is considered , the adopted value of @xmath29 is consistent with the typical values expected at these mass scales at @xmath30 ( coln et al .",
    "we fix the disk mass fraction to @xmath31 which is typical of mass models that reproduce dwarf and low surface brightness galaxies ( jimenez , verde & oh 2003 ) .",
    "the exponential disk scale length is then fixed by the adopted spin parameter , @xmath32 , which is chosen to be larger than the average value of halo spins of @xmath33 found in cosmological @xmath0-body simulations ( e.g. vitvitska et al .",
    "2002 ) for two reasons .",
    "first , modelling of rotation curves of dwarf galaxies suggests that they have an average spin larger than the mean value of the galaxy population as a whole ( jimenez et al .",
    "second , using a large spin parameter enables us to construct a low surface brightness model as required by the tidal stirring scenario .",
    "finally , we adopt a constant vertical scale height across the disk equal to @xmath34 .",
    "the radial disk scale length @xmath13 is uniquely determined for a given set of parameters @xmath35 , @xmath29 , @xmath36 , and @xmath15 and is equal to @xmath37 .",
    "the setup of the stellar disk is complete once the toomre parameter , @xmath38 , is set ( toomre 1964 ) .",
    "the mean toomre parameter of the disk was about @xmath39 .",
    "the external , spherically symmetric static tidal field is based on the dynamical mass model a1 for the mw presented in klypin , zhao & somerville ( 2002 ) .",
    "specifically , the dm halo has a virial mass of @xmath40 , a concentration parameter of @xmath41 , and a dimensionless spin parameter of @xmath42 .",
    "the halo was adiabatically contracted to respond to the growth of the stellar disk and bulge .",
    "the mass and thickness of the stellar disk were @xmath43 and @xmath44 , respectively , and @xmath45 was the resulting disk scale length .",
    "the mass and scale radius of the bulge are specified by @xmath46 and @xmath47 .",
    "the orbits of the mw dsphs are currently poorly constrained observationally .",
    "nevertheless , their current distances , which give an indication of the apocentre of their orbits , coupled with studies of the orbital properties of cosmological haloes , can be used to constrain the orbital parameters of dsphs . using this information we placed the dwarf galaxy on an orbit bound and coplanar with respect to the mw disk with the apocentre radius of @xmath48 and @xmath49 , close to the median ratio of apocentric to pericentric radii found in high resolution cosmological @xmath0-body simulations ( ghigna et al .",
    "we begin the simulation by randomly orienting the disk of the satellite and placing it at apocentre , and we integrate the orbit forward for @xmath50 gyr .",
    "this timescale corresponds to about five orbital periods ( @xmath51 gyr ) in the chosen orbit and represents a significant fraction of cosmic time .",
    "the simulation was performed using pkdgrav , a multi - stepping , parallel , tree @xmath0-body code ( stadel 2001 ) .",
    "we sampled the dwarf galaxy with @xmath52 dm particles and @xmath53 stellar particles , and employed a gravitational softening length of 100 and 50 pc , respectively .",
    "numerical and structural parameters of the static primary and live dwarf galaxy model are summarized in table  [ galaxypar ] .",
    ".parameters of galaxy models . [ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     for comparison we also show in fig .",
    "[ fornaxdk ] the velocity dispersion data ( open circles ) in the case when the selection of 172 stars is made via a simple @xmath54 cut - off ( walker et al .",
    "the best - fitting parameters for this sample are @xmath55 @xmath56 , @xmath57 with @xmath58 .",
    "the corresponding best - fitting velocity dispersion profile and probability contours in the parameter plane are shown in fig .",
    "[ fornaxdk ] and [ fornaxcont ] with dotted lines .",
    "we therefore confirm that in this case the isotropic models with mass following light are rejected as found by walker et al .",
    "the difference in the estimated parameters is due to the different shape of the dispersion profile since we have kept all our other assumptions the same . in agreement with our conclusions in section 4.1",
    ", the simple cut - off in velocity does not reject enough interlopers in the outer part while rejecting too many bound stars in the centre .",
    "this situation manifests itself in decreasing the value of the innermost dispersion data point and increasing the value of the outermost dispersion point compared to our values .",
    "we have also verified how the values are affected if we fit _ our _ velocity dispersion profile using instead of the srsic profile for the tracer the best - fitting king profile as done by walker et al .",
    "the results are again shifted ( although not so strongly ) towards more tangential orbits which is understandable since the king profile fit drops faster than the srsic fit at large distances from the fornax centre .",
    "it should be noted however , that according to fig . 2 of irwin & hatzidimitriou ( 1995 ) the srsic profile fits the outer distribution of stars better than the king profile and it is this part of the distribution which is important here .",
    "coming back to our best estimates , it is interesting to note that the total mass of the fornax dsph obtained by multiplying our best - fitting @xmath59 by the total luminosity of the galaxy , @xmath60 m@xmath61 , is in excellent agreement with the value estimated in the last iteration of the interloper removal procedure from ( [ mass ] ) .",
    "this may suggest that , in the case of dsph galaxies not strongly dominated by dm , the estimator ( [ mass ] ) is a reliable measure of the mass .",
    "this is also confirmed by the comparison between the mass profiles from ( [ mass ] ) and the real mass profile for the simulated dwarf in fig .  [ massprofile ] .",
    "we now address the question of the origin of the contamination in fornax . as discussed above , introducing the initial cut - off in velocity and performing our procedure of interloper removal , we rejected 30 out of 202 stars .",
    "it is worth noting that the distribution of the rejected stars is highly asymmetric : while only 5 stars with velocities larger than the fornax mean velocity of about 50 km s@xmath62 are removed , 25 interlopers are found with velocities below the mean . since the tidal tails of fornax are visible in photometric studies ( coleman et al . 2005 ) we conclude that we are probably observing the dwarf in the direction perpendicular or at least at some angle to the tidal tails .",
    "therefore the contamination from them should not be large and in any case it should be symmetric with respect to the galaxy mean velocity .",
    "this leads us to suppose that the majority of the contamination in fornax comes from the mw stars .",
    "= 7.5 cm    although mw contamination can be dealt with using photometric techniques ( majewski et al .",
    "2000a ) , it has not yet been done for fornax . in order to verify our hypothesis",
    "we have therefore resorted to the besancon galaxy model ( robin et al .",
    "2003 , http://bison.obs-besancon.fr/modele ) which has proven useful before to estimate the expected contamination by mw stars in the draco dsph ( okas et al .",
    "[ besancon ] shows expected contamination with mw stars in the direction of the fornax dsph with the higher open histogram plotting the distribution of all mw stars and the middle half - filled one the stars falling in the range of the red giant branch of the dwarf ( walker et al .",
    "we see that the distribution of mw stars peaks at around @xmath63 km s@xmath62 which is where the majority of interlopers identified in fornax appear ( see fig .",
    "[ fornaxhartog ] , the mean velocity of the 30 removed stars is 24.5 km s@xmath62 ) .",
    "> from fig .",
    "[ besancon ] we expect as many as about 216 stars from the mw to lie within the red giant branch of fornax and about 154 of them to fall within @xmath64 boundaries for fornax which correspond to line - of - sight velocities between 0 and 100 km s@xmath62 . using the colour - magnitude diagram for fornax ( fig .  1 of walker et al .",
    "2006 ) we estimate the total number of visible stars in the selected region to be around 4000 .",
    "this means that the mw contamination could be at the level of @xmath65 percent with the distribution given by the lower filled histogram of fig .",
    "[ besancon ] . with this level of contamination",
    "we expect about 10 stars from the mw in the sample of 202 stars for fornax .",
    "note that this number can only indicate an order of magnitude while the real contamination can be different .",
    "our calculation certainly demonstrates however that the contamination by mw stars in the fornax sample is significant .",
    "= 7.5 cm    in order to check whether this contamination can be dealt with using our method of interloper removal , we assumed that the cleaned sample for fornax ( 172 stars marked with open circles in fig .",
    "[ fornaxhartog ] ) are the true galaxy members .",
    "assuming further that all the contaminating stars come from the mw , we generated 100 samples of 30 contaminating mw stars ( so the total sample has 202 stars , exactly as the original fornax sample ) using the besancon model .",
    "an example of this artificially generated contamination is shown in fig .",
    "[ diabes ] where the mw stars were marked with pluses ( @xmath66 ) . as expected , they cluster at around @xmath67 km s@xmath62 . on such samples we performed the procedures of interloper removal .",
    "the results are coded as before with open circles for the accepted stars and filled circles for the rejected ones .",
    "the efficiency of the method in rejecting the mw stars averaged over 100 velocity diagrams is about 80 percent while only 0.5 percent of the ` true ' members are removed .",
    "the result is of course not general and will vary depending on the position of the dwarf galaxy on the sky and its heliocentric velocity .",
    "this example shows however that even in cases where the mean velocities of the dwarf and the mw stars are not strongly separated our method is efficient in removing the contamination .",
    "we have studied the origin and influence of unbound stars in kinematic samples of dsph galaxies . using a high resolution @xmath0-body simulation of a dwarf galaxy orbiting in a mw potential we generated mock stellar samples for the galaxy observed in different directions .",
    "we find that when the line of sight of the observer is along the tidal tails the samples can be strongly contaminated by unbound stars leading to a secondary increase of the galaxy velocity dispersion profile .",
    "we proposed a method to remove such interloper stars from the samples and tested its efficiency .",
    "we compared the performance of this method to the usually applied schemes based on the rejection of stars with velocities larger than @xmath68 with respect to the galaxy s mean velocity .",
    "such schemes turn out to be insufficient : samples thus created still show a secondary increase in the velocity dispersion profile at larger distances from the galaxy centre ( kleyna et al .",
    "2002 ; walker et al .",
    "2006 ) leading to biased inferences concerning the mass distribution and anisotropy .",
    "the mass distribution appears more extended and the orbits more tangential ( see the discussion in okas et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "recently , mcconnachie , pearrubia & navarro ( 2006 ) proposed that velocity dispersion profiles with such features can be interpreted in terms of additional components in the mass distribution .",
    "our results for the simulated dwarf as well as for fornax ( see also snchez - conde et al .",
    "2007 for draco ) argue against this interpretation : once the interlopers are removed the velocity dispersion profiles of dsph galaxies are well - behaved , decreasing functions of radius and can be modelled by smooth stellar and dm distributions .",
    "we agree with read et al .",
    "( 2006b ) that tidal stripping should not be important in the inner parts of dsph galaxies but in the outer parts it can significantly affect the observed velocity dispersion profile .",
    "= 7.5 cm    = 7.5 cm    after the unbound stars are removed from the samples the next most important source of error appears to originate from the different kinematic properties of the dwarf when observed along different directions and the measured distribution of the tracer which is one of the components in dynamical modelling .",
    "we have demonstrated that observing the dwarf along the tidal tails we measure a lower velocity dispersion in comparison with other directions and we see the dwarf as more extended and more luminous .",
    "the first of these effects decreases the mass , while the second acts in the opposite direction .",
    "however , the first effect is more important so that the mass - to - light ratio estimated when observing along the tails is _ underestimated _ in spite of the strongest original contamination .",
    "still , our modelling of the velocity dispersion profiles via the jeans equation showed that our estimated masses and mass - to - light ratios agree well ( typically within 25 percent ) with the true properties of the simulated dwarf .",
    "it should be noted however , that the mass of the dwarf is best reproduced in the case when the line of sight is perpendicular to the tails .",
    "we also reproduce reasonably well the anisotropy of stellar orbits .",
    "our results thus show that although the dwarf loses most of its mass due to tidal interaction and is surrounded by material which has been stripped from it , it still is a gravitationally bound object which can be reliably modelled by standard methods based on jeans equations once interlopers are properly removed .",
    "we emphasize that although we have studied only a single case , our dwarf is a typical product of the tidal stirring scenario ( mayer et al .",
    "2001 , 2002 ) and was very severely stripped ( it lost 99 percent of its mass ) so the result should be even more valid for less stripped satellites .",
    "this conclusion is quite opposite to the tidal scenario as envisioned by kroupa ( 1997 ) and klessen & kroupa ( 1998 ) who claimed that tidal remnants are unbound structures with artificially inflated velocity dispersions which are useless in determining their true mass - to - light ratios .",
    "still , this conclusion is far from obvious once we recall ( see fig .  [ density ] ) that some of the material in the tails is still bound to the dwarf because it follows the dwarf on its orbit but does not trace its potential anymore .",
    "we illustrate this in fig .",
    "[ tidalvel ] showing a velocity diagram with 200 stars sampled from the tails alone by cutting out the main body of the dwarf up to 2.5 kpc from the centre ( we are looking along the tails ) .",
    "the stars unbound to the dwarf were additionally marked with crosses .",
    "the distribution of velocities is fairly uniform , in particular there are many stars with velocities close to the dwarf galaxy mean velocity and thus bound to the dwarf but there is no gap between the bound and unbound stars .",
    "the origin of such a velocity distribution can be understood by referring to fig .",
    "[ vel60 ] , where line - of - sight velocities of the stellar particles were plotted against their position on the axis parallel to the tidal tails .",
    "again , particles with @xmath69 kpc from the dwarf s centre were removed .",
    "surprisingly , there seems to be an almost linear relation between the distance from the centre of the galaxy and the line - of - sight velocity of the stars .",
    "in addition , the tidal tails are symmetric with respect to the dwarf as they should be due to the symmetric tidal force for small - mass satellites ( choi , weinberg & katz 2007 ) .",
    "note , that our procedure of interloper removal works only on stars with velocities sufficiently discrepant from the galaxy mean .",
    "given the uniform distribution of velocities in the tails , our procedure for the removal of interlopers works remarkably well .",
    "still , some of the tidal stars with velocities close to the dwarf s mean remain in the cleaned samples .",
    "we have demonstrated in fig .",
    "[ compileddisp ] that these stars do not affect the velocity dispersion in any significant way and therefore are not really important for dynamical modelling .",
    "we have also studied another possible source of contamination in the dsph kinematic samples , by the stars from the mw .",
    "the importance of this effect depends however very strongly on the particular location and heliocentric velocity of the dwarf . despite the fact that fornax has greater galactic latitude than draco ( @xmath70 , @xmath71 ,",
    "see okas et al .",
    "2005 for details on draco ) , contamination from mw stars is expected to be much higher in the first case , because the mean velocity of fornax is much closer to the mean velocity of mw stars in the given direction than in the case of draco .",
    "we verified the efficiency of our method of interloper removal for samples generated from one particular configuration of the simulated dwarf contaminated by both tidal tails and mw stars and found it satisfactory . still , photometric methods of selection of candidate stars for spectroscopic observations in dsphs ( majewski et al .",
    "2000a ) are to be recommended since they can save a lot of telescope time .",
    "we applied the methods tested on the simulated samples to the real kinematic data for the fornax dsph galaxy from walker et al .",
    "after removal of interlopers we modelled the velocity dispersion profile assuming a constant mass - to - light ratio and anisotropy parameter .",
    "contrary to walker et al .",
    "( 2006 ) we find that the velocity dispersion profile is very well reproduced by a model in which mass follows light with mass - to - light ratio @xmath72 and isotropic orbits .",
    "the difference is mainly due to the different interloper removal scheme applied here . in the case of fornax",
    ", the majority of contaminating stars most probably comes from the mw and we demonstrated that our interloper removal scheme is successful in cleaning the sample from them .",
    "we wish to thank r. wojtak for the use of his interloper removal code and m. walker for providing the photometric data for fornax stars in electronic form .",
    "we are grateful to our referee , m. wilkinson , for insightful comments which helped to improve the paper .",
    "we acknowledge discussions with m. giersz , a. klypin , s. majewski and j. read .",
    "jk and e are grateful for the hospitality of instituto de astrofsica de andalucia in granada and the institut dastrophysique de paris where part of this work was done .",
    "sk acknowledges support by the u.s .",
    "department of energy through a kipac fellowship at stanford university and the stanford linear accelerator center .",
    "the numerical simulations were performed on the zbox supercomputer at the university of zrich .",
    "we made use of the besancon galaxy model available at http://bison.obs - besancon.fr / modele/. this research was partially supported by the polish ministry of science and higher education under grant 1p03d02726 , the exchange program of csic / pan and the jumelage program astronomie france pologne of cnrs / pan .",
    "blumenthal g. r. , faber s. m. , flores r. , primack j. r. , 1986 , apj , 301 , 27 choi j .- h .",
    ", weinberg m. d. , katz n. , 2007 , submitted to mnras , astro - ph/0702353 coleman m. g. , da costa g. s. , bland - hawthorn j. , freeman k. c. , 2005 aj , 129 , 1443 coln p. , klypin a. , valenzuela o. , gottlber s. , 2004 , apj , 612 , 50 evans n. w. , wilkinson m. i. , perrett k. m. , bridges t. j. , 2003 , apj , 583 , 752 den hartog r. , katgert p. , 1996",
    ", mnras , 279 , 349 ghigna s. , moore b. , governato f. , lake g. , quinn t. , stadel j. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 146 gmez - flechoso m. a. , martnez - delgado d. , 2003 , apj , 586 , l123 hayashi e. , navarro j. f. , taylor j. e. , stadel j. , quinn t. , 2003 , apj , 584 , 541 heisler j. , tremaine s. , bahcall j. n. , 1985 , apj , 298 , 8 hernquist l. , 1993 , apjs , 86 , 389 irwin m. , hatzidimitriou d. , 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1354 jimenez r. , verde l. , oh s. p. , 2003 ,",
    "mnras , 339 , 243 johnston k. v. , 1998 , apj , 495 , 297 johnston k. v. , sigurdsson s. , hernquist l. , 1999 , mnras , 302 , 771 kazantzidis s. , mayer l. , mastropietro c. , diemand j. , stadel j. , moore b. , 2004 , apj , 608 , 663 kazantzidis s. , zentner a. r. , kravtsov a. v. , 2006 , apj , 641 , 647 klessen r. s. , kroupa p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 498 , 143 kleyna j. t. , wilkinson m. i. , evans n. w. , gilmore g. , 2002 , mnras , 330 , 792 klypin a. , kravtsov a. v. , valenzuela o. , prada f. , 1999 , apj , 522 , 82 klypin a. , zhao h. , somerville r. s. , 2002 , apj , 573 , 597 kravtsov a. v. , gnedin o. y. , klypin a. a. , apj , 2004 , 609 , 482 kroupa p. , 1997 ,",
    "newa , 2 , 139 lima neto g. b. , gerbal d. , mrquez i. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , 481 okas e. l. , 2001 , mnras , 327 , l21 okas e. l. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 697 okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , prada f. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 918 okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , prada f. , 2006 , eas , 20 , 113 majewski s. r. , ostheimer j. c. , kunkel w. e. , patterson r. j. , 2000a , aj , 120 , 2550 majewski s. r. , ostheimer j. c. , patterson r. j. , kunkel w. e. , johnston k. v. , geisler d. , 2000b , aj , 119 , 760 mamon g. a. , okas e. l. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 705 mamon g. a. , okas e. l. , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 1582 martnez - delgado d. , alonso - garca j. , aparicio a. , gmez - flechoso m. a. , 2001 , apj , 549 , l63 mateo m. l. , 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435 mayer l. , governato f. , colpi m. , moore b. , quinn t. , wadsley j. , stadel j. , lake g. , 2001 , apj , 559 , 754 mayer l. , moore b. , quinn t. , governato f. , stadel j. , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 119 mayer l. , mastropietro c. , wadsley j. , stadel j. , moore b. , 2006 , mnras , 369 , 1021 mayer l. , kazantzidis s. , mastropietro c. , wadsley j. , 2007 , nature , 445 , 738 mcconnachie a. w. , pearrubia j. , navarro j. f. , 2006 , submitted to apjl , astro - ph/0608687 mo h. j. , mao s. , white s. d. m. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 moore b. , ghigna s. , governato f. , lake g. , quinn t. , stadel j. , tozzi p. , 1999 ,",
    "apj , l19 muoz r. r. et al . , 2006 , apj , 649 , 201 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 ( nfw ) prugniel ph .",
    ", simien f. , 1997 , a&a , 321 , 111 read j. i. , wilkinson m. i. , evans n. w. , gilmore g. , kleyna j. t. , 2006a , mnras , 366 , 429 read j. i. , wilkinson m. i. , evans n. w. , gilmore g. , kleyna j. t. , 2006b , mnras , 367 , 387 robin a. c. , reyl c. , derrire s. , picaud s. , 2003 , a&a , 409 , 523 snchez - conde m. a. , prada f. , okas e. l. , gomez m. e. , wojtak r. , moles m. , 2007 , submitted to jcap , astro - ph/0701426 schulz j. , fritze - v .",
    "alvensleben u. , moeller c. s. , fricke k. j. , 2002 , a&a , 392 , 1 srsic j. l. , 1968 , atlas de galaxies australes , observatorio astronomico , cordoba sohn s. t. et al . , 2006 , submitted to apj , astro - ph/0608151 springel v. , white s. d. m. , 1999 , mnras , 307 , 162 stadel j. g. , 2001 , phd thesis , univ .",
    "of washington toomre a. , 1964 , apj , 139 , 1217 vitvitska m. , klypin a. a. , kravtsov a. v. , wechsler r. h. , primack j. r. , bullock j. s. , 2002 , apj , 581 , 799 walcher c. j. , fried j. w. , burkert a. , klessen r. s. , 2003 , a&a , 406 , 847 walker m. g. , mateo m. , olszewski e. w. , bernstein r. , wang x. , woodroofe m. , 2006 , aj , 131 , 2114 wilkinson m. i. , kleyna j. t. , evans n. w. , gilmore g. f. , irwin m. j. , grebel e. k. , 2004 , apj , 611 , l21 wojtak r. , okas e. l. , 2006 , mnras , in press , astro - ph/0606618 wojtak r. , okas e. l. , mamon g. a. , gottlber s. , prada f. , moles m. , 2006 , a&a , in press , astro - ph/0606579 yahil a. , vidal n. v. , 1977 , apj , 214 , 347"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the origin and properties of the population of unbound stars in the kinematic samples of dwarf spheroidal galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> for this purpose we have run a high resolution @xmath0-body simulation of a two - component dwarf galaxy orbiting in a milky way potential . in agreement with the tidal stirring scenario of mayer et al . </S>",
    "<S> , the dwarf is placed on a highly eccentric orbit , its initial stellar component is in the form of an exponential disk and it has a nfw - like dark matter halo . </S>",
    "<S> after 10 gyrs of evolution the dwarf produces a spheroidal stellar component and is strongly tidally stripped so that mass follows light and the stars are on almost isotropic orbits . from this final state , we create mock kinematic data sets for 200 stars by observing the dwarf in different directions . we find that when the dwarf is observed along the tidal tails the kinematic samples are strongly contaminated by unbound stars from the tails . </S>",
    "<S> we also study another source of possible contamination by adding stars from the milky way . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that most of the unbound stars can be removed by the method of interloper rejection proposed by den hartog & katgert and recently tested on simulated dark matter haloes . </S>",
    "<S> we model the cleaned - up kinematic samples using solutions of the jeans equation with constant mass - to - light ratio and velocity anisotropy parameter . </S>",
    "<S> we show that even for such a strongly stripped dwarf the jeans analysis , when applied to cleaned samples , allows us to reproduce the mass and mass - to - light ratio of the dwarf with accuracy typically better than 25 percent and almost exactly in the case when the line of sight is perpendicular to the tidal tails . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis was applied to the new data for the fornax dsph galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> we show that after careful removal of interlopers the velocity dispersion profile of fornax can be reproduced by a model in which mass traces light with a mass - to - light ratio of 11 solar units and isotropic orbits . we demonstrate that most of the contamination in the kinematic sample of fornax probably originates from the milky way .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : local group  galaxies : dwarf  galaxies : clusters : individual : fornax  galaxies : fundamental parameters  galaxies : kinematics and dynamics  cosmology : dark matter </S>"
  ]
}