{
  "article_text": [
    "the number of charged particles in extensive air showers ( eas ) as function of atmospheric depth , called longitudinal shower profile , is closely related to the primary particle type and energy . for a given energy ,",
    "protons produce showers that develop , on average , deeper in the atmosphere than showers of nuclei .",
    "the atmospheric depth at which a shower exhibits its maximum of charged particles , @xmath0 , is well correlated with the mass of the primary particle .",
    "however , the stochastic nature of the individual particle production processes leads to large shower - to - shower fluctuations . on the other hand , the size of the fluctuations depends on the mass number , too .",
    "therefore , both the mean depth of maximum and the width of the @xmath0 distribution hold important clues about the elemental composition of the primary shower particle .",
    "the most direct method of measuring the longitudinal shower profile at shower energies above @xmath1ev is the fluorescence light technique @xcite .",
    "several existing and upcoming experiments apply this technique , for example , hires  @xcite , the pierre auger observatory  @xcite , telescope array  @xcite , and euso  @xcite .",
    "the fluorescence technique exploits that charged particles traversing the atmosphere excite nitrogen molecules .",
    "the de - excitation proceeds partially through fluorescence light emission , mainly in the wavelength range between 300 and 400  nm .",
    "it is expected and also indicated by direct measurements @xcite that the fluorescence yield is proportional to the local ionization energy deposit of a shower .",
    "therefore , the main advantage of this observation technique is that the electromagnetic energy of the eas is obtained calorimetrically , i.e.  nearly independent of the primary cosmic ray composition . at the same time",
    ", the longitudinal shower profile can be reconstructed from the observed light profile .",
    "the atmosphere plays a major role in fluorescence light based air shower experiments . on one hand , it serves as interaction target for cosmic rays and as calorimeter in which the secondary particles deposit their energy via ionization losses . on the other hand ,",
    "the atmosphere is the source of the detected fluorescence emission and also propagation medium for the light .",
    "varying atmospheric conditions can influence the observed light signal through all stages of the detection process , from shower development over fluorescence light production in the shower to light propagation to the detector .",
    "this article is the first of a series of investigations of the importance of molecular atmospheric properties for the reconstruction of eas . within this article",
    ", we shall restrict ourselves to geometrical effects implied by the shape and variation of the vertical atmospheric density profile .",
    "forthcoming articles will address the dependence of the fluorescence yield and light propagation on molecular atmospheric conditions .",
    "all fluorescence detectors measure the light signal of showers as time traces with a certain angular resolution .",
    "after reconstructing the shower core coordinates and direction , these time traces are mapped to a geometric location in the atmosphere from which the observed light was emitted . in first approximation , this geometry reconstruction does not depend on atmospheric properties such as the local atmospheric density at a given altitude .",
    "considering the shower evolution , the situation is different .",
    "the interaction and energy loss processes of the shower particles depend mainly on the traversed atmospheric depth ( i.e.  traversed column density ) and not on the particular geometry of the shower trajectory .",
    "therefore it is the shower profile as function of atmospheric depth that is most appropriate for characterizing air showers .",
    "moreover it is this profile , and in particular the depth of maximum , that is needed for composition studies .",
    "varying atmospheric conditions lead to the effect that , for example , the same geometrical height can correspond to different atmospheric depths .",
    "of course , a misreconstruction of the shower axis could also lead to an incorrect determination of the shower depth profile .    in the following",
    "we shall study atmospheric effects on the conversion of atmospheric depth , as used in shower simulations , to geometrical altitude , as reconstructed from fluorescence measurements , and vice versa .",
    "we will concentrate on the atmospheric conditions as found at the pampa amarilla , argentina , at the site of the southern pierre auger observatory , where we have performed radio soundings of the molecular atmosphere for more than one year .",
    "the structure of the article is the following . in sec .",
    "[ sec : atmos ] the atmospheric data are presented that will be used for the following discussion . the importance of using realistic atmospheric profiles",
    "is demonstrated in sec .",
    "[ sec : longi ] .",
    "first the conversion between atmospheric depth and geometrical height is discussed for two actual atmospheres . in the second part ,",
    "the position of the shower maximum and its distribution is presented taking into account measured variations of the atmosphere and averaged seasonal atmospheric models .",
    "a summary is given in sec .",
    "[ sec : summary ] .",
    "the atmospheric depth associated with a given height plays a central role in eas simulation and reconstruction .",
    "the interaction probability of a shower particle depends only on its traversed column depth , which can be expressed conveniently as difference between the atmospheric depths of the production and interaction points .",
    "similarly the conversion of height to atmospheric depth is needed for mapping a reconstructed event geometry to the depth profile of a shower .",
    "the relation between atmospheric depth and height follows from the air density profile , whereas typically the density profile of the us standard atmosphere 1976 ( us - stda ) is assumed  @xcite .",
    "its atmospheric depth parameterization according to j.  linsley is implemented as the default profile in many monte carlo simulation programs like , for example , corsika  @xcite and aires  @xcite . in a recent study",
    "the atmospheric conditions at the site of the auger observatory in argentina were investigated in detail  @xcite .",
    "the results important for the discussion of atmospheric profiles are summarized below .",
    "meteorological radio soundings were performed to measure altitude profiles of temperature @xmath2 , air pressure @xmath3 , and relative humidity @xmath4 .",
    "the data were recorded using radiosondes  @xcite launched on helium filled balloons . during ascent",
    "at least one data sample was taken every 8 seconds . typically , the recording frequency was even higher which gives an average height interval of about 20  m between two measurements .",
    "the balloons used reached altitudes of about 20 - 25  km  a.s.l .    during six measurement campaigns ,",
    "61 successful radio soundings were performed at the pampa amarilla , argentina , out of which 51 measurements were done at night .",
    "table  [ tab : launches ] summarizes briefly the statistics of the campaigns .       [ 99 ] r.  m.  baltrusaitis et al .",
    "instr .  and meth .  in phys",
    "* a240 * , 410 , ( 1985 ) c.  c.  jui et al .",
    "( hires collab . ) , in invited rapporteur and highlight papers , proc .",
    "26th int .",
    "ray conf .",
    "( salt lake city ) , 370 , ( 2000 ) a.  etchegoyen et al .",
    ", fermilab - pub-96 - 024 , + http://www.auger.org/admin/designreport/ , ( 1996 ) j.  blmer ( pierre auger collab . ) , j.  phys .",
    "* g29 * , 867 , ( 2003 ) j.  abraham el al .",
    "( pierre auger collab . ) , nucl .",
    "instr .  and meth .  in phys",
    "a , vol .",
    "523 , issue 1 , 50 , ( 2004 ) m.  fukushima et al .",
    "( ta collab . ) , + http://www-ta.icrr.u-tokyo.ac.jp/ta , ( 2000 ) m.  fukushima , prog .",
    "suppl .  * 151 * , 206 , ( 2003 ) l.  scarsi et al . , http://www.euso-mission.org/ a.  petrolini ( euso collab . ) , nucl .",
    "suppl .  * 113 * , 329 , ( 2002 ) m.  pallavicini ( euso collab . ) , nucl .",
    "instr .  and meth .  in phys",
    "* a502 * , 155 , ( 2003 ) f.  kakimoto et al . , nucl .",
    "instr .  and meth .  in phys",
    "* a372 * , 527 , ( 1996 ) national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ) , u.s .",
    "standard atmosphere 1976 , nasa - tm - x-74335 , ( 1976 ) d.  heck et al . , corsika : a monte carlo code to simulate extensive air showers , report fzka 6019 , forschungszentrum karlsruhe , ( 1998 ) s.  j.  sciutto , auger technical note gap-99 - 020 , ( 1999 ) b.  keilhauer et al . , proc .",
    "28th int .",
    "ray conf .",
    "( tsukuba ) , 2 , 879 , ( 2003 ) dr .  graw messgerte gmbh & co. , nrnberg , http://www.graw.de b.  a.  bodhaine et al .",
    "j. atmos . ocean . tech .",
    ", vol . 16 , 1854 , ( 1999 ) b.  wilczyska et al . ,",
    "28th int .",
    "ray conf .",
    "( tsukuba ) , 2 , 571 , ( 2003 ) b.  keilhauer , investigation of atmospheric effects on the development of extensive air showers and their detection with the pierre auger observatory , report fzka 6958 , forschungszentrum karlsruhe , ( 2004 ) ; + auger technical note gap-2003 - 107 , ( 2003 ) n.  n.  kalmykov , s.  s.  ostapchenko , a.  i.  pavlov , nucl .",
    "suppl . ) 52b , 17 , ( 1997 ) j.  w.  cronin , taup 2003 proceedings , astro - ph/0402487 , ( 2004 ) a.  a.  watson , astro - ph/0312475 , ( 2003 ) h.  ulrich , untersuchung atmosphrischer einflsse auf die entwicklung ausgedehnter luftschauer anhand von simulationsrechnungen , diploma thesis , university of karlsruhe , ( 1997 ) ( unpublished ) ; + h.  ulrich et al . , auger technical note gap-98 - 043 , ( 1998 ) k.  bernlhr , astropart .",
    "* 12 * , 255 , ( 2000 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the longitudinal profile of extensive air showers is sensitive to the energy and type / mass of the primary particle . </S>",
    "<S> one of its characteristics , the atmospheric depth of shower maximum , is often used to reconstruct the elemental composition of primary cosmic rays . in this article , the impact of the atmospheric density profile on the reconstruction of the depth of maximum , as observed in fluorescence light measurements , is investigated . </S>",
    "<S> we consider in detail the atmospheric density profile and its time variations at the site of the southern pierre auger observatory , using data that were obtained from meteorological radio soundings . </S>",
    "<S> similar atmospheric effects are expected to be found also at other sites .    </S>",
    "<S> pacs : 96.40.pq    uhecr ; composition ; extensive air shower ; atmosphere ; shower maximum ; atmospheric depth    ,    ,    ,    , </S>"
  ]
}