{
  "article_text": [
    "the nature and the time scale of the processes that shape galaxy properties in clusters and groups are still unclear .",
    "the presence of a hot intercluster gas observed in x - rays should have a role in shaping some galaxy properties ( e.g. gunn & gott 1972 ) .",
    "the window opened by the redshift dependence of the galaxy properties has been used to set constraints on the time scales of the processes ( e.g. butcher & oemler 1978 , 1984 ; dressler et al .",
    "1997 ; stanford , eisenhardt & dickinson , 1998 ; treu et al .",
    "2003 ) . however , the observational evidence of the environmental effect is still uncertain .",
    "for example , the existence of a butcher  oemler ( bo ) effect ( butcher & oemler 1984 ) , i.e. the fact that clusters at higher redshift have a larger fraction of blue galaxies , @xmath3 , is still controversial .",
    "the controversy is raised by two criticisms concerning measurements and sample .",
    "andreon , lobo & iovino ( 2004 ; hereafter ali04 ) analyse three clusters at @xmath4 without finding evidence of a high blue fraction with respect to @xmath5 .",
    "they also show the drawbacks of the various definitions of @xmath3 adopted in the literature .",
    "they conclude then that  twenty years after the original intuition by butcher & oemler , we are still in the process of ascertaining the reality of the effect \" . the same work put in a different perspective the results of rakos & shombert ( 1995 ) , clarifying the fact that even if all the galaxies in the universe are passively evolving , the blue fraction will be @xmath6 at @xmath7 in the rakos & shombert ( 1995 ) scale .",
    "therefore , the very high fraction they found at high redshift does not require any special mechanism to account for the present day counterparts other than ageing .",
    "ali04 introduce also a first discussion about the difficult task of measuring the error on @xmath3 , given the observations , showing that at least some previous works have underestimated errors and , by consequence , overstated the evidence for the bo effect .",
    "the role of the inference , the logical step going from the observed data to the true value and its error , has been further elaborated in dagostini ( 2004 ) in the more general case of unknown individual membership for the galaxies .",
    "kron ( 1994 ) claimed that all the  high \" redshift clusters known in the early 80 s ( @xmath8 ) were somewhat extreme in their properties , and this was precisely the reason why they were detected .",
    "andreon & ettori ( 1999 ) quantify this issue , and show that many of the clusters compared at different redshifts have also different masses ( or x - ray luminosities ) , in such a way that  we are comparing unripe apples with ripe oranges in understanding how fruit ripens \" ( andreon & ettori 1999 ) . together with allison - smith et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and andreon & ettori ( 1999 ) , ali04 show that the optical selection of clusters is prone to produce a biased - hence inadequate - sample for studies on evolution since at larger redshifts it naturally favours the inclusion in the sample of clusters with a significant blue fraction .",
    "they show that clusters with a blue fraction as the observed ones are over - represented in optical cluster catalogs by a factor two , with respect to identical clusters but without a bursting population .",
    "there is therefore a compelling need to study the properties of galaxies in clusters at intermediate redshift ( @xmath9 ) , avoiding the bias of an optical selection , by choosing clusters of the same mass as present day studied clusters to avoid an  apple vs orange \" issue .",
    "this is the aim of this paper , where we present a bo  style study of a small but representative sample of 7 clusters , x - ray selected , of low to average mass ( velocity dispersion ) and at intermediate redshift .",
    "the layout of the paper is the following . in sect .",
    "2 we present optical imaging and spectral data . in sect .",
    "3 we show that the studied sample is both representative and x  ray selected .",
    "we revisit in section 4 the definition of the blue fraction , in order to account for the reduced age of the universe at higher redshift .",
    "5 presents some technical details .",
    "results are summarized in sect .",
    "6 , whereas sect .",
    "7 discusses relevant results published in the literature and some final conclusions .",
    "appendixes present a bayesian estimate of cluster velocity dispersion , richness , and blue fraction .",
    "we adopt @xmath10 , @xmath11 and @xmath12 km s@xmath13 mpc@xmath13 .",
    ".the cluster sample [ cols= \" < , > , < , > , > , > , > , > \" , ]      different physical mechanisms are thought to operate in different environments ( see treu et al .",
    "2003 for a summary ) and thus , by identifying where the colour of galaxies starts to change , we can hope to identify the relative importance of such mechanisms .",
    "for this reason , we studied the radial dependence of the blue fraction @xmath3 as usually done in the literature , by splitting the data in radial bins .",
    "we arbitrarily choose @xmath14$],@xmath15 $ ] , @xmath16 $ ] and @xmath17 $ ] in units of @xmath18 , for simplicity .",
    "in the outermost bin we were forced to drop xlssc 016 , because @xmath19 lies farther away than the mid - distance between xlssc 016 and the nearest cluster to it , as seen projected on the plane of the sky , and , therefore , this radial bin is potentially contaminated by galaxies belonging to the other cluster .",
    "note that its inclusion , or exclusion , in the other radial bins does not affect the derived values , and therefore our conclusions .",
    "table 3 lists the found values .",
    "figure 8 ( solid points ) shows that the blue fraction increases with the clustercentric distance , from @xmath20 in the innermost bin , to @xmath21 and @xmath22 in the two outermost bins : galaxies at the center of clusters are found to have a suppressed star formation ( redder colours ) compared to those at larger clustercentric radii .",
    "have we reached the field value of the blue fraction ? using the spectrophotometry listed in combo-17 ( wolf et al .",
    "2004 ) , that encompasses @xmath23 deg@xmath24 of the chandra deep field region , we have selected the galaxies brighter than the ( same evolving ) absolute magnitude limit adopted in our work , and in the same redshift range ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "there are 83 galaxies , of which 61 are bluer than an sa evolving template .",
    "we , therefore , infer a blue fraction of @xmath26 , arbitrarily plotted at @xmath27 in fig . 8 . in the above calculation ,",
    "we were forced , for lack of information , to neglect redshift errors and errors on the photometric corrections applied by the authors to compute absolute magnitudes .",
    "the blue fraction is found to steadily increase from the cluster core to the field value .",
    "the important point to note in fig 8 is that the influence of the cluster reaches large radii .",
    "there are two possible explanations for the above result .",
    "first , the mechanism affecting the galaxy colours reaches large radii .",
    "in such a case , ram pressure stripping , tidal halo stripping and tidal triggering star formation ( just to mention a few , see e.g. treu et al .",
    "2003 for definitions and other examples ) are ruled out as _ direct _ causes of the observed trend , because all of them are short - range mechanisms being effective in the cluster center only .",
    "alternatively , the trend might be produced by a significant population of backsplash galaxies , i.e. satellite galaxies that once were inside the virial radius but now reside beyond it , as suggested on theoretical grounds by gill et al .",
    "these authors claim that about the same number of infalling galaxies and backsplash galaxies should be at @xmath28 . under the reasonable assumption that infalling galaxies have a blue fraction equal to the field one , and rebounded galaxies have a blue fraction equal to the central one , the expected blue fraction @xmath3 at @xmath18 should be about 0.49 ( @xmath29 ) , in good agreement with the observed value , given support to the backsplash population alternative , in agreement with models and observations presented in balogh , navarro & morris ( 2000 ) . from a strict statistical point of view , this possibility is favoured because it provides a sharp prediction verified by the observations .",
    "the kinematical predictions of gill et al .",
    "( 2005 ) are also in qualitative agreement with observations of the coma cluster : blue spirals ( identified as the infalling population ) have a higher velocity , relative to the cluster center , than red spirals ( identified as rebounded objects ) and early  type populations ( andreon 1996 ) .",
    "the possible existence of a backsplash population , whose importance seems hard to quantify from theoretical grounds , requires to keep in stand - by our conclusion , as well other conclusions based on the ( often implicit ) hypothesis that the population observed at large radii is uncontaminated by rebounded galaxies ( e.g. mcintosh , rix , & caldwell , 2004 ) . for the very same reason",
    ", one should keep in hold the interpretation of the morphology  density ( or whatever density  dependent trends in population properties , such as the strong emitter fraction ) , because it could either be the result of mechanisms operating at the studied density , but also the result of different degrees of contamination ( at different distances from the cluster center ) by the backsplash population .",
    "we are not questioning the existence of the segregation , but the way one may interpret it .",
    "comparison of our results with other ones requires to pay attention to the prescriptions adopted to define the blue fraction , to the way the cluster sample is built , and , sometime , to the adopted statistical approach .",
    "the most similar work to ours is the seminal butcher & oemler paper , from which we modelled our prescriptions . by selecting a small subsample of clusters of richness similar to ours but located in the nearby universe ( @xmath30 , where bo and our prescriptions are identical ) they find @xmath3 values within @xmath31 , the radius that includes 30 per cent of cluster galaxies , in the @xmath32 to @xmath33 range , with a typical error of @xmath34 .",
    "this range of values is not significantly lower , considering the various sources of uncertainties , than our central value @xmath35 , to claim that the two values are different at a high significance level , especially taking into account the fact that the butcher & oemler errors are sometimes optimistically estimated ( andreon , lobo & iovino 2004 ) .",
    "de propris et al.s ( 2004 ) large sample of nearby clusters matches our sample in terms of richness : we find for their sample ] an average @xmath36 of 30 galaxies and a blue fraction inside @xmath37 of @xmath38 , taking into account that the blue fraction is a binomial deviate ( the authors assumed it to be a gaussian and find @xmath39 ) .",
    "the error due to the sample size is negligible ( 0.01 ) because their sample is large .",
    "however , the largest source of uncertainty in their work comes from their large photometric errors ( they use photographic plates ) .",
    "such photometric errors induce a bias in the blue fraction that , as discussed in sect 3.1 , is difficult to correct for ( jeffreys 1938 , eddington 1940 ) , and is neglected by the authors .",
    "after accounting for minor differences in the luminosity cuts between de propris et al . and",
    "bo and for the mentioned malmquist bias , the estimated blue fraction within @xmath37 in the de propris et al.s ( 2004 ) sample becomes @xmath40 , but with an error hard to quantify .",
    "inside @xmath37 we find @xmath41 , which identical to what found in the de propris et al.s large nearby sample .    to summarize , our @xmath1 sample matches in terms of richness the nearby samples in butcher & oemler ( 1984 ) and , especially , de propris et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and shows equal blue fractions within @xmath31 and @xmath37 , i.e. no butcher - oemler effect is seen .",
    "it is to be noted that our sample has an almost identical size and redshift distribution as the high redshift clusters in the bo sample , and thus that our lack of detection of a bo effect is not due to a smaller or closer sample .",
    "the compared clusters matches in terms of richness , but are constructed using different selection criteria , because the low redshift sample is an optically selected one , while our cluster sample is x - ray selected . as mention in sec .",
    "1 , our x - ray selection is chosen to minimize the observational bias on @xmath3 , and hence to derive a fair measure of the blue fraction . at low redshift , we are not aware of any reason why @xmath3 should be biased _ at a fixed richness _ for an optically selected sample , such as the ones of butcher & oemler ( 1984 ) and de propris et al .",
    "( 2004 ) : why clusters of a given richness and rich in blue galaxies should be over / underrapresented in cluster catalogs of the nearby universe ? therefore , even if the selection criteria used to build the compared cluster samples are different , the comparison of the blue fractions is safe , because both cluster samples provide unbiased values of @xmath3 .",
    "there are hints that confirm the constancy of the blue fraction at even larger redshifts .",
    "ali04 show evidence for a _ low _ blue fraction at @xmath4 .",
    "recently , tran et al .",
    "( 2005 ) also find a _ low _ blue fraction ( @xmath39 ) for a cluster at @xmath42 , computed inside a cluster portion that , if not rigorously identical to the one prescribed by butcher  oemler , does support the _ non _ existence of a butcher  oemler effect . both works adopted a non - evolving @xmath43 . if an evolving @xmath43 is used , the derived blue fraction at high redshift would even be lower than claimed , giving further support to our conclusion .",
    "ali04 have also disproved all the reported literature evidence accumulated thus far for the existence of a butcher  oemler effect , i.e for a change of the blue fraction inside @xmath31 .",
    "all the above suggests that the fraction of blue galaxies , computed by separating the galaxies using a population formed by stars whose age increases at the same rate as the universe age increases , does not evolve . or",
    ", if the reader prefers , there is no systematic drift from the blue to the red classes of galaxies as the look ",
    "back time evolves , between @xmath5 and @xmath44 .    a result similar to the one depicted in fig .",
    "8 is presented in lewis et al .",
    "( 2002 ) based on nearby clusters .",
    "our results are in qualitative agreement with theirs since we also find that the cluster affects the fraction of active galaxies up to the virial radius .",
    "lewis et al . (",
    "2002 ) have studied a _ nearby _",
    "cluster sample composed of 440 member galaxies inside the virial radius ( vs our sample of 320 ) .",
    "figure 8 shows that their fraction of galaxies with star formation rates , normalized to @xmath45 , larger than 1 solar mass per year ( triangles ) nicely compares with our derived fraction of blue galaxies .",
    "our error bars for their points show the expected central 68 per cent credible intervals , only accounting for sampling errors , computed by us from a straightforward application of statistics . in lewis",
    "et al . ( 2002 ) , the sample is split in classes very similar to ours and bo : in fact , our spectro - photometric sa has a star formation rate , normalized to @xmath45 , equal to their adopted threshold ( one solar mass per year per @xmath45 galaxy ) if @xmath46 , a value well inside the range of values usually observed ( e.g. blanton et al .",
    "2001 ; norberg et al .",
    "i.e. what is called blue by them is also called blue by us , on average .",
    "it is not surprising , therefore that integrating the lewis et al.s ( 2002 ) blue profile within @xmath37 gives a blue fraction identical to the one observed in the propris et al.s ( 2004 ) sample ( @xmath47 vs @xmath48 ) , further supporting the similarity of the two classes ( blue by colour and blue by star formation rate ) .",
    "their cluster sample has an overlapping , but different , range of masses ( velocity dispersion ) with respect to our sample : our richest clusters have a velocity dispersion typical of the average values of lewis et al .",
    "( 2002 ) clusters . however , their profile is only marginally affected , if at all , by separating clusters in ( two ) velocity dispersion classes ( lewis et al .",
    "furthermore , gomez et al . ( 2003 ) indirectly confirm that the radial profile is not too much affected by differences in cluster mass , by studying a sample of nearby clusters having velocity dispersions similar to our sample .",
    "therefore , differences in the way cluster sample are built seems not to affect the derived  blue \" profile .",
    "the agreement between lewis et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and our blue fraction profiles is almost perfect ; however the however the studied clusters are located at quite different look back times : clusters in lewis et al .",
    "are in the very nearby universe ( at @xmath49 ) , whereas our clusters have @xmath1 , implying a @xmath50 gyr time difference for the adopted cosmology .",
    "as long as the separation of galaxies in classes by lewis et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and in our work is similar , the agreement of the two radial profiles means that there is no evolution of the blue fraction between @xmath5 and @xmath1 , from the cluster center to the field value .      considering a much more luminous x - ray ( and therefore massive ) sample of clusters at intermediate redshift , fairley et al .",
    "( 2002 ) find an increasing blue fraction as a function of the clustercentric distance , up to 2 @xmath31 , in good agreement with the results we found over much larger clustercentric distances .",
    "a quantitative comparison between the two pieces of work is however impossible , because there are too many uncontrolled variables that are allowed to change between these .",
    "the authors find a blue fraction @xmath51 , in agreement with the value we observe in the cluster center @xmath35 .",
    "however , we believe that this apparent agreement largely arises by chance . first , the authors used a non - evolving template to separate the galaxies in red and blue classes , and find two sets of ( different ) values for their two sets of available colours .",
    "secondly , they considered higher redshift than we do , by observing clusters with comparable exposure times but with smaller telescopes ( 2.5 m vs 4.0 m ) . in spite of their expected larger errors ,",
    "they neglect the effect of photometric errors on their blue fraction estimates ( sect 3.2 ) .",
    "third , they do not adopt an evolving luminosity limit . and",
    ", finally , a comparison of the values derived in the two works requires an extrapolation , because clusters with very different masses ( x  ray luminosities ) are considered .",
    "ellingson et al . ( 2001 ) performed a study quite different from ours , and adopt a galaxy separation that is the same irrespective of redshift ( i.e. of galaxy age ) , because they decomposed their spectra on non - evolving spectral templates .",
    "their claim for a change in the population gradient is just a restatement of the fact that the blue fraction is higher everywhere in the cluster and in the field because galaxies are bluer when they were younger , i.e. is not informative about processes running in clusters or in the field , but just informative about aging .",
    "these authors would observe an evolution of the gradient even if galaxies would be kept isolated from the surrounding environment and the infall in the cluster would be fixed ( i.e. no new galaxy falls in the cluster , and galaxies are kept fixed at their observed position ) : their  old population \" fraction increases going from high to low redshift because galaxies become older , and the effect is more marked at large clustercentric radii than in the centre , because in the cluster core the  old population \" fraction is already near to 1 and can not take values larger than 1 .",
    "we , instead , choose to reduce by one the number of parameters , removing the age dependency by using an evolving ( sa ) template .",
    "in summary , the referenced analysis do not reveal results in disagreement with our own work , although their interpretation may sometimes be different ( or even opposite to ours ) .",
    "this paper revises the definition used to separate galaxies in two colour classes in a way that takes in to account the reduced age of the universe at higher redshift .",
    "it is nowadays uninteresting to know whether the fraction of blue galaxies changes with redshift in a way that is different from the expectation of a model that we now know is unphysical ( that has the same age at all redshifts ) . if the model is unphysical",
    ", there is no need to make observations to rule it out .",
    "a stellar population whose age does not change in a universe whose age instead changes , as it is supposed by using a non - evolving spectral template ( or a fixed @xmath43 , i.e. the bo prescription ) , is clearly non - physical .",
    "it was useful a long time ago to show that a universe with the same age at all redshifts is rejected by observations .",
    "however , nowadays we can attack a more essential question : to know whether galaxies evolve differently from a reference evolution that is physically acceptable .",
    "our measurements of evolution are , therefore , zero - pointed on the evolution of an object whose age increases as required by the current cosmological model .",
    "we select a spectro - photometric sa to conform to the bo prescription in the local universe .",
    "effectively , this is a change in perspective : we should no longer attempt to reject an unphysical universe , in which the age of the universe does depend on redshift , whereas the age of its content does not , but we should study whether the observed differences between the low and high redshift content are in agreement with differences of the universe age at the considered redshifts .    furthermore , we have introduced in our specific domain the tools of bayesian inference ( see appendix ) , dramatically improving on previous approaches that led some authors to claim that they have observed unphysical values ( such as blue fractions outside the @xmath52 $ ] range or negative star formation rates ) .",
    "such tools allow us to use all our data without rejecting blue fractions measured at large clustercentric radii , where the signal to noise is low , contrary to previous researchers obliged to discard such data ( or claiming that they have observed unphysical values ) .",
    "the main result of this work is that _ we find that the cluster affects the properties of the galaxies up to two virial radii at @xmath1_.    we have measured the blue fraction of a _ representative _ sample of clusters at intermediate redshift .",
    "indeed , our sample is a random sampling of a volume complete x - ray selected cluster sample .",
    "the x - ray selection has no cause - effect relationship on the cluster blue fraction , all the remaining parameters being kept fixed , to the best of our knowledge , and , therefore , the studied sample consists of an unbiased one ( from the blue fraction point of view ) .",
    "our statement should not be over - interpreted , however , because we are only sampling a portion of the x - ray parameter space : very x - ray luminous clusters are missing in our sample because they are intrinsically rare , and clusters with fainter x - ray emission than the limiting flux are missing because they lie outside the sampled space .",
    "studied clusters show a variety of values for the blue fraction , when the fraction is measured within @xmath18 .",
    "the variety is too large to solely be accounted for by errors . at smaller radii , instead , the blue fractions are more homogeneous .",
    "actually , there is some evidence that the blue fraction within @xmath18 increases with the cluster velocity dispersion , i.e. with the cluster mass , whereas the increase at smaller radii is much smaller , if present at all .",
    "therefore , intermediate redshift clusters with the largest masses show the largest fractions of star - forming galaxies , when measured within @xmath18 . however , the evidence is good but not definitely conclusive and still requires an independent confirmation .",
    "the radial dependence of the blue fraction is quite shallow : it smoothly and monotonically increases from the centre to the field .",
    "the latter has been determined according to our prescriptions using combo-17 data .",
    "the radial dependence ( i.e. the blue fraction at every computed clustercentric radius ) is equal to the one recently found in a comparable sample of clusters , but in a 3 gyr older universe , i.e. at @xmath5 ( lewis et al .",
    "the agreement between the two derived profiles ( amplitude and shape ) , our blue fraction within @xmath31 and @xmath37 and the local similar determinations ( butcher & oemler 1984 , de propris et al .",
    "2004 ) , the low blue fractions at high redshift ( ali04 , tran et al .",
    "2005 ) , all of these suggest that there is no colour evolution beyond the one needed to account for the different age of the universe and of its content .",
    "the above is found to hold from the cluster core to the field value .",
    "previous controversial evidence from the literature assumed that the universe becomes older while its content does not , and overstated the significance of the evidence or compared heterogeneously measured blue fractions ( as shown in ali04 ) .",
    "the interpretation of the observed radial trend is complicated by the possible existence of a backsplash population",
    ". if the backsplash population represents a negligible fraction of galaxies at a given clustercentric radius , then the large clustercentric distance at which the cluster still produces some effect rules out short  range scale mechanisms .",
    "however , the predicted backsplash population is precisely what is needed to explain our observed fraction at @xmath18 , given the fraction at the cluster center and in the field , and also qualitatively accounts for different kinematics of galaxies having different star formation rates ( blue and red spirals ) in the coma cluster .",
    "if this is the case , mechanisms efficient in the cluster center only come into play , because galaxies are affected when they reach the cluster core , and are then scattered at large clustercentric radii where they spend a lot of time and are observed .",
    "the possible existence of the backsplash population does not offer us the possibility to draw a final inference about the nature and the time scale of the processes that shape galaxy properties in clusters .",
    "the backsplash mechanism is a physical one : it affects the interpretation of measured radial ( or density ) trends drawn by us and other authors , and forces us to keep in hold their interpretations .",
    "however , the infall pattern turns out not to have changed during the last 3 gyr , as measured by the identical blue fraction profiles at @xmath5 and @xmath1 , in spite of apparently contradictory previous claims , based on the use of a fraction definition that has one more ( uncontrolled ) dependence .",
    "we warmly thank giulio dagostini , for his advices on the inference theory , allowing us to perform the @xmath3 measurements presented in this paper , as well as andrew jaffe , andrew liddle and mike west for useful discussions about bayesian statistics and model selection .",
    "jon willis is thanked for his efforts in acquiring part of the ctio data used in this paper and for useful comments .",
    "malcom bremer , pierre - alain duc and ivan valtchanov are thanked for their comments on an early version of this paper , and gianluca lentini for useful english hints .",
    "gg acknowledges fondecyt grant # 1040359 and hq acknowledges partial support from the fondap centro de astrofisica ( conicyt ) .",
    "part of this work was also performed in the framework of the iuap p5/36 project , supported by the dwtc / sstc belgian federal service .",
    "this paper is based on observations obtained with xmm , with eso ( prop .",
    "70.a-0733 ) , cerro - tololo interamerican observatory ( prog . 2000 - 0295 , 2001 - 0316 and 2002 - 0247 ) and magellan telescopes at las campanas observatory .",
    "allington - smith , j.  r. , ellis , r. , zirbel , e.  l. , oemler , a. 1993 , apj 404 , 521    andreon , s.  1996 , a&a , 314 , 763    andreon , s.  & ettori , s.  1999 , apj , 516 , 647    andreon , s. , lobo , c. , & iovino , a.  2004 , mnras , 349 , 889 ( ali04 )    andreon , s. , willis , j. , quintana , h. , valtchanov , i. , pierre , m. , & pacaud , f.  2004a , mnras , 353 , 353    andreon , s. , willis , j. , quintana , h. , valtchanov , i. , pierre , m. , & pacaud , f.  2004b , in `` exploring the universe .",
    "contents and structure of the universe '' , xxxix rencontres de moriond ( astro - ph/0405574 )    andreon , s. , punzi , g. , grado , a. , 2005 , mnras , 360 , 727    balogh , m. , et al .  2004 , mnras , 348 , 1355    beers , t.  c. , flynn , k. , & gebhardt , k.  1990 , aj , 100 , 32    bertin , e. , & arnouts , s.  1996 , a&as , 117 , 393    blanton , m.  r. , et al .",
    "2001 , aj , 121 , 2358    bruzual a. , g. , & charlot , s.  1993 , apj , 405 , 538    butcher , h. , & oemler , a.  1978 , apj , 226 , 559    butcher , h.  & oemler , a.  1984 , apj , 285 , 426 .",
    "( bo )    chiappetti , l. et al .",
    "2005 , a&a , 439 , 413    coleman , g.  d. , wu , c .- c . , & weedman , d.  w.  1980 , apjs , 43 , 393 .",
    "dagostini g. , 2003 , bayesian reasoning in data analysis . a critical introduction , world scientific publishing , 2003    dagostini g. , 2004 , physics/0412069    de propris , r. , stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , & dickinson , m.  2003 , apj , 598 , 20    de propris , r. et al .",
    "2004 , mnras , 351 , 125 ( dp04 )    dickey , j.  m. , & lockman , f.  j.  1990 , araa , 28 , 215    dressler , a.  et al .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 577    eddington , a.  s.  1940 , mnras , 100 , 354    ellingson , e. , lin , h. , yee , h.  k.  c. , & carlberg , r.  g.  2001 , apj , 547 , 609    fairley , b.  w. , jones , l.  r. , wake , d.  a. , collins , c.  a. , burke , d.  j. , nichol , r.  c. , & romer , a.  k.  2002 , mnras , 330 , 755    garilli , b. , maccagni , d. , & andreon , s.  1999 , a&a , 342 , 408    gill , s.  p.  d. , knebe , a. , & gibson , b.  k.  2005 , mnras , 356 , 1327    g ' omez , p.  l. , et al .",
    "2003 , apj , 584 , 210    goto , t. , et al .",
    "2003 , pasj , 55 , 739    goto , t. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , l6    gunn , j.  e. , & gott , j.  r.  i.  1972 , apj , 176 , 1    helene , o. , 1983 , nucl . instr .",
    "meth . , 212 , 319    jeffreys , h.  1938 , mnras , 98 , 190    jeffreys , h.  1961 , theory of probability , 3rd edn , oxford univ .",
    "press , oxford    kodama , t. , arimoto , n. , barger , a.  j. , & aragon - salamanca , a.  1998 , a&a , 33 4 , 99    kraft , r.  p. , burrows , d.  n. , & nousek , j.  a.  1991 , apj , 374 , 344    kron r , 1994 , the deep universe , saas ",
    "fee advanced course , eds . b. binggeli & r. buser , berlin , springer , p. 233",
    "landolt , a.  u.  1992 , aj , 104 , 340 .",
    "lewis , i. , et al .",
    "2002 , mnras , 334 , 673    liddle , a.  r.  2004 , mnras , 351 , l49    loredo , t. , 1992 , in statistical challenges in modern astronomy , eds .",
    "feigelson and g.j . babu ( eds . ) , springer - verlag , new york , 275    mauduit , j.c . ,",
    "mamon , g.a . & hill , g.j . , 2005 ( in preparation )    mcintosh , d.  h. , rix , h. , & caldwell , n.  2004 , apj , 610 , 161    norberg , p. , et al .",
    "2002 , mnras , 336 , 907    oemler , a. , jr . 1974 ,",
    "apj , 194 , 1    pierre , m. , et al .",
    "2004 , journal of cosmology and astro - particle physics , 9 , 11    postman , m. , et al . , 2005 , apj , 623 , 721    press , w. , 1997 , in unsolved problems in astrophysics , eds .",
    "j. bahcall & j. ostriker ( princeton : princeton university ) , 49    prosper h. , 1998 , phys .",
    "rev , d , 37 , 1153    prosper h. , 2000 , in proceedings of the workshop on confidence limits , cern report ( hep - ph/0006356 also http://ph-dep.web.cern.ch/ph-dep/events/clw/papers.html )    rakos , k.  d. , & schombert , j.  m.  1995 , apj , 439 , 47    smith , j.  a. , et al .",
    "2002 , aj , 123 , 2121    stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , & dickinson , m.  1998 , apj , 492 , 461    schwarz g. , 1978 , annals of statistics , 5 , 461    tran , k.  h. , van dokkum , p. , illingworth , g.  d. , kelson , d. , gonzalez , a. , & franx , m.  2005 , apj , 619 , 134    treu , t. , ellis , r.  s. , kneib , j. , dressler , a. , smail , i. , czoske , o. , oemler , a. , & natarajan , p.  2003 , apj , 591 , 53    wake , d.  a. , collins , c.  a. , nichol , r.  c. , jones , l.  r. , & burke , d.  j.  2005 , apj , 627 , 126    weiner , b.  j. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 620 , 595    willis , j. , et al .",
    ", 2005 , mnras , submitted    wolf , c. , et al .  2004 , a&a , 421 , 913    zwicky , f. 1957 , morphological astronomy , berlin : springer",
    "velocity dispersions and their uncertainties are computed according to statistical inference textbooks in a bayesian framework , from the observed values of the galaxy redshifts , while accounting for measurement errors .",
    "we first numerically derive , using a monte carlo simulation , the likelihood of observing @xmath53 computed by using the scale parameter introduced by beers et al .",
    "( 1990 ) , given the observed redshifts and redshift errors . then , using the bayes theorem and adopting a uniform prior we derive the probability that the cluster has a velocity dispersion @xmath53 , given the observed values of redshifts .",
    "the posterior , for the chosen prior , turns out to be very well described by a gaussian .",
    "velocity dispersions ( point estimates ) and uncertainties ( 68 per cent central credible intervals ) are quoted in table 1 and are robust to changes of priors : adopting a widely different prior ( @xmath54 ) , our point estimate of the cluster velocity dispersion changes by 2 to 5 per cent of its uncertainty .",
    "derived velocity dispersions are corrected for the @xmath55 effect .",
    "our velocity dispersions have the properties to be non negative , and their uncertainties do not include unphysical ( negative or complex ) values of the velocity dispersion . while the above properties seem useless to state , it should be noted that they are non trivial properties , because some unphysical velocity dispersions are still published .    it should be noted that , for the velocity dispersions presented here , the frequentist and bayesian derivation of the value of the velocity dispersion turn out to be quite similar .",
    "the cluster richness within @xmath18 is _ not _ naively derived using the common background subtraction ( e.g. zwicky 1957 , oemler 1974 ) :    @xmath56    with obvious meanings for the symbols , using the _ observed _ number of galaxies , because it potentially leads to negative numbers of cluster galaxies , which is acceptable for the estimator described above , but not for the true value of the physical quantity aimed to be measured ( the cluster richness ) . furthermore , frequentist confidence intervals may have whatever size , including being empty or of vanishing length ( as actually occurs precisely for the above expression when the right - hand side of eq .",
    "b1 is negative , e.g. kraft et al .",
    "measurements derived from eq .",
    "b1 , and their confidence intervals , have not the properties we would like richness and errors to have ( for example , richness to be positive , and errors to be be large when the uncertainty is large , and to become small when the uncertainty on nuisance parameters decreases , etc . ) .",
    "these are well known and discussed with several degrees of approximation in both the frequentist and bayesian frameworks ( helene 1983 ; kraft et al .",
    "1991 ; loredo 1992 ; prosper 1998 ; dagostini 2003 ) .",
    "results derived from eq b1 , when @xmath57 are difficult to be understood and used ( say in computing averages , or when we need to propagate the uncertainty from @xmath58 on a derived quantity ) .",
    "this situation occurs for one of our clusters ( xlscc 012 , if eq .",
    "b1 is used , but we do not use it ) : its richness is @xmath59 and its confidence interval ( at whatever confidence level ) is empty ( kraft et al .",
    "1991 ) .",
    "`` if the results are to be supposed to have any relevance beyond the original data '' ( jeffreys 1938 ) , we believe that it is preferable to quote the point estimate of the cluster richness , given the data in hand , in place of the algebraic result of eq b1 .",
    "we compute the ( posterior ) probability that the cluster has @xmath60 galaxies , and , when needed , we summarize it quoting , as we do for the velocity dispersion ( appendix a ) and the blue fraction ( appendix c ) , the median and the 68 per cent central interval .",
    "specifically , we assume a uniform prior , taking advantage of the fact that the problem is mathematically worked out by kraft et al .",
    "we checked that an almost identical result is obtained using a jeffrey prior ( the problem is worked out by prosper 1998 ) , once differences in the type of credible intervals are accounted for , i.e. that the result found is only marginally affected , if at all , by the prior choice .",
    "it is comforting to find that xlssc 012 , which has at least 12 spectroscopic confirmed members ( table 1 ) , has some hot emitting gas , and hence _ does _ exist and has , as all clusters of galaxies , a positive number of galaxies , has a listed richness of 8 galaxies within @xmath18 ( brighter than an evolved @xmath61 mag ) , even if the ( naive , but widespread ) application of eq .",
    "b1 attributes to it a negative number of galaxies ( @xmath59 ) and an empty confidence interval .",
    ". b1 is routinely used in computing cluster luminosity functions in presence of a background , starting with zwicky ( 1957 ) , oemler ( 1974 ) .",
    "andreon , punzi & grado ( 2005 ) update their use .",
    "we conclude this section by reminding that , both in the frequentist and bayesian paradigms , the background subtraction ( marginalization ) does not require that the background in the cluster line of sight is equal to the _ average _ value or equal to the one observed in the control field , but only that it is drawn from the same parental distribution , contrary to some astronomical misconceptions .",
    "many blue fractions published in astronomical papers can be dramatically improved : although , by definition , the blue fraction is hardly bounded in the [ 0,1 ] range ( otherwise part of a sample is larger than the whole sample ) , it is often claimed that the observed value of the blue fraction is outside the [ 0,1 ] range ( data points outside this range are present in several bo - like papers ) . in presence of a background ,",
    "unphysical values frequently occur .",
    "the reason is that the blue fraction is computed from :      with obvious meanings for the symbols .",
    "the unavoidable use of the _ observed _ number of galaxies , instead of the ( unknown ) true ones , in the above formula makes the result difficult to be understood , for the very same reasons already discussed for the richness estimator ( eq .",
    "the use of the _ observed _ number of galaxies in eq .",
    "c1 allows to find negative values for the blue fraction ( i.e. we would claim that there are more red galaxies than galaxies of all colours ) or blue fractions larger than one ( i.e. we would claim that there are more blue galaxies than galaxies of all colours ) , statements that are hard to defend .",
    "this mainly occurs when poissonian fluctuations make background counts larger than counts in the cluster line of sight , or when there are more blue galaxies in the background than in the cluster line of sight .",
    "eq c1 , adopted in postman et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , forced these authors to discard two of three of their @xmath63 clusters in the determination of the spiral fraction .",
    "bayesian inference allows not to discard data , to derive estimates that never take unphysical values , and ( credible ) intervals that have the properties we would like errors to have . as for the cluster velocity dispersion ( appendix a ) and richness ( appendix b )",
    ", we compute the ( posterior ) probability that the cluster has a blue fraction @xmath3 , given the observed number of galaxies in the cluster direction ( total & blue ) and the expected number of background galaxies ( total & blue ) measured over a large control field .",
    "all the mathematical aspects of the above computation have been worked out by dagostini ( 2004 ) , who provides all requested details and the exact analytic expression for the likelihood , to be used to derive the posterior , given our data .",
    "such a posterior may be summarized by a few numbers : the median ( our point estimate of the cluster blue fraction ) and the 68 per cent central credible interval ( our estimate of the uncertainty ) , exactly as we did for the case of velocity dispersion and richness .",
    "a trivial application of the bayes theorem allows to account for errors on @xmath18 ( due to the uncertainty on @xmath53 ) .",
    "we verified that , properly accounting for @xmath18 errors , our results got unchanged , mainly because the blue fraction is a smooth and slowly varying function of @xmath18 .",
    "it is interesting to note that a reasonable constraint on @xmath3 is achieved even for xlssc 012 , in spite of the naive expectation that , the cluster being poor ( eq . b1 would get @xmath59 galaxies ) , and the cluster richness appearing at the denominator of eq c1 , the error on the fraction is huge , and therefore the corresponding determined blue fraction is of low quality .",
    "the correct inference takes , instead , a different approach and quantifies what is qualitatively apparent in figure 3 : to the left of the blue ( left ) arrow there is no evidence for an excess of blue galaxies in the cluster line of sight .",
    "under such a condition , how is it possible that the cluster blue fraction gets large if almost no blue galaxy overdensity is observed ? given that almost no cluster blue galaxies are there , the cluster blue fraction is low , and the number of red galaxies sets how rich the cluster is and therefore  how low \" the fraction is ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the present paper focuses on the much debated butcher - oemler effect : the increase with redshift of the fraction of blue galaxies in clusters . considering a representative cluster sample made of seven group / clusters at @xmath0 </S>",
    "<S> , we have measured the blue fraction from the cluster core to the cluster outskirts and the field mainly using wide field ctio images . </S>",
    "<S> this sample represents a random selection of a volume complete x - ray selected cluster sample , selected so that there is no physical connection with the studied quantity ( blue fraction ) , to minimize observational biases . in order to statistically assess the significance of the butcher  oemler effect </S>",
    "<S> , we introduce the tools of bayesian inference . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , we modified the blue fraction definition in order to take into account the reduced age of the universe at higher redshifts , because we should no longer attempt to reject an unphysical universe in which the age of the universe does depend on redshift , whereas the age of its content does not . </S>",
    "<S> we measured the blue fraction from the cluster center to the field and we find that the cluster affects the properties of the galaxies up to two virial radii at @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> data suggest that during the last 3 gyrs no evolution of the blue fraction , from the cluster core to the field value , is seen beyond the one needed to account for the varying age with redshift of the universe and of its content . </S>",
    "<S> the agreement of the radial profiles of the blue fraction at @xmath2 and @xmath1 implies that the pattern infall did not change over the last 3 gyr , or , at least , its variation has no observational effect on the studied quantity .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution  galaxies : clusters : general  galaxies : clusters : </S>"
  ]
}