{
  "article_text": [
    "ngc  1961 ( arp 184 ) is a very massive ( dynamical mass @xmath0 , gottesman et al . 1983 ) sb spiral galaxy with a peculiar and asymmetric optical appearance .",
    "it is among the most massive and largest known spiral galaxies ( romanishin 1983 ) ; its optical diameter of @xmath1 arcmin ( de vaucouleurs et al .",
    "1991 , rc3 ) translates to 110 kpc ( adopting a distance of 82.9 mpc for @xmath2 km s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 ) .",
    "it is a member of a group of 6 galaxies where it is by far the largest and most massive member .    despite its size and peculiar appearance , ngc  1961",
    "has received relatively little attention . a detailed study of its hi  structure and kinematics by shostak et al .",
    "( 1982 , shsvv ) found an unusual asymmetric morphology with an extensive `` wing '' of gas extending 30 kpc to the north - west and a sharp edge to the south - east .",
    "shsvv suggested that the disturbed appearance is due to stripping of the gas in ngc  1961 by a hot intergalactic medium ( igm ) .",
    "they discarded the possibility of tidal interaction with another galaxy since there is no galaxy with a large enough mass sufficiently close to ngc  1961 .",
    "they also dismissed the possibility of a merger with another galaxy or an intergalactic gas cloud since they found no trace of a merger remnant such as a second nucleus , or disturbed velocity distribution in the hi  gas .",
    "in favour of the stripping hypothesis shsvv noted the following points .",
    "i ) the displacement of the hi  with respect to the optical disk in the south of the galaxy .",
    "ii ) the presence of increased radio continuum emission in the south - east which they interpreted as being caused by an enhancement of the magnetic field or by an increase in the cosmic ray ( cr ) density due to a high star formation rate ( sfr ) .",
    "iii ) the blue colour of the optical emission of the nw wing and the south - eastern ridge indicating recent star formation .",
    "iv ) a curved x - ray emission feature in the south - east of the galaxy detected by the _ einstein _ satellite ( shostak et al . 1982 ) which they interpreted as emission from hot igm .",
    "however , recent rosat observations have shown that the x - ray emission of ngc  1961 is fairly typical for a spiral galaxy and comes mainly from the central region ( pence & rots 1997 ) .",
    "the cause of the asymmetric hi  distribution therefore remains unclear .",
    "in this paper we present multi - frequency radio continuum data which we use to identify thermal and nonthermal ( synchrotron ) emission .",
    "the thermal radio emission reveals the sites and intensity of present day star formation , whereas the synchroton emission , and in particular its spectral shape , contains information about the star formation in the past ( on time - scales of a few @xmath4 yr which is related to the life - time of the cr electrons and of supernova ( sn ) progenitors ) , and also about the acceleration and propagation mechanisms of crs .",
    "-0.5 cm 1.46  ghz 7.5 cm 4.92  ghz    0.4 cm    -0.5cm8.41  ghz7.5 cm 15.4  ghz    ngc  1961 was mapped with the vla at 8.41  ghz and with the cambridge 5-km ryle telescope ( rt ) at 4.92 and 15.4  ghz . additionally , existing vla data ( b - array ) at 1.46  ghz ( condon 1983 ) were available .",
    "when the observations of ngc  1961 were made ( between 1990 and 1993 ) , the rt had a band - width of 280  mhz split into 28 10-mhz frequency channels ; together with the minimum baseline of 18  m this provides excellent temperature sensitivity at both 4.92 and 15.4  ghz .",
    "-0.5 cm 1.46  ghz 7.5 cm 8.41  ghz    for the rt observations a total of five telescope configurations at each observing frequency were employed giving a nearly fully filled aperture out to a baseline of approximately 1 km .",
    "a minimum of two 12-hour runs in each configuration were obtained .",
    "this gave a resolution of approximately @xmath5  arcsec@xmath6 at 15.4 ghz and @xmath7  arcsec@xmath6 at 4.92 ghz . at 4.92  ghz observations of phase - calibrators",
    "were made at the beginning and end of each run , while at 15.4  ghz calibration observations were interleaved with those of ngc  1961 .",
    "3c  286 and 3c  48 were observed regularly as flux calibrators .",
    "calibration and data - editing was performed in the mrao package postmortem , with subsequent reduction in aips and the mrao package anmap .",
    "the 8.41-ghz vla observations were in the b , c and d arrays and were carried out during 1990/91 .",
    "reduction of the data followed standard vla procedures with calibration , editing and imaging performed in aips .",
    "the 1.46  ghz data were from condon ( 1983 ) and no additional reduction was required .",
    "a number of maps were made at each frequency by tapering the aperture - plane to highlight structure on different angular scales .",
    "the data in this paper which are most seriously affected by the lack of short baselines are those at 1.46 ghz , which are only sensitive to structures on scales smaller than about 2 arcmin .",
    "very faint emission from the whole of the optical disc of ngc  1961 will not be adequately represented in our maps .",
    "the optical diameter of ngc  1961 is 4.6 arcmin ; however the extent of the continuum emission at 1.46 ghz as determined by shostak et al .",
    "( 1982 ) using the wsrt with a shortest baseline of only 36 m is approximately 2.5 arcmin , with very little low - brightness emission outside that region .",
    "a further test of the completeness of our mapping is to compare our measured flux densities with single dish data ; these comparisons are reported in table 1 .",
    "it is apparent that to within the quoted uncertainties our flux densities are consistent with those determined by other workers ( including single dish measurements at 1.40  ghz and 4.85  ghz ) , although the best estimates represent a shortfall of 18% of the flux density at 1.46  ghz and 12% at 4.92   ghz .",
    "these results suggest that we are able to image the extent of the continuum emission satisfactorily at all our observing frequencies .    so as to make the spectral index comparison as accurate as possible it is crucial to ensure that the spectral index is determined from images all of which are sensitive as far as possible to the same range of spatial structure . to achieve such a match , the uv - range of the data in the aperture plane used in the construction of the images above 1.46  ghz was restricted during the mapping programs so that the minimum and maximum baselines ( measured in wavelengths ) used in the imaging were the same ; this involved removing baselines from all of the high - frequency data .",
    "while it is not possible to ensure that the precise sampling of the aperture plane is the same in all cases , for both the vla and rt the dense sampling near the shortest baselines leads to similar overall coverage of the uv plane .",
    "furthermore the use of clean does , to some extent , compensate for the resulting marginally different beamshapes . a possible problem results from the fact that the extended , low - brightness structure often has a steep radio - frequency spectrum .",
    "missing the short baselines could lead to a negative region ( `` negative bowl '' ) around the source and hence a ( frequency - dependent ) error in the zero level of the image .",
    "the final images were checked for the existence of such an effect and in each case any offset of the local zero level was found to be less than the thermal noise ( this is clear from figs . 1 and 2 where no evidence of a significant negative bowl exists ) .",
    "we are confident that the procedures that we have adopted here are sufficient to reduce any artefacts resulting from the sampling of the aperture to levels significantly below those of the thermal noise .",
    "all the maps were cleaned and a set of maps at a common resolution of @xmath8  arcsec@xmath6 were used for the multi - frequency comparison ( at 1.46  ghz this was achieved by convolving the supplied image ) .",
    "all maps have been corrected for the primary beam response of the telescope used to make the observations .",
    ".integrated flux densities [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     @xmath9 adjusted to @xmath10 km s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 @xmath11 @xmath12 $ ] @xmath13 assuming a conversion factor of @xmath14    in table 2 observational properties of ngc  1961 are presented .",
    "because of its size , ngc  1961 is luminous at all wavelengths .",
    "the @xmath15 colour is typical for an sb galaxy ( huchra 1977 ) as is the ratio @xmath16 ( e.g. lisenfeld et al .",
    "this latter value is a measure of the ratio of the sfr averaged over the last @xmath17 yr to the sfr averaged over the last @xmath18 yr , and indicates that the _ global _ sf has proceeded constantly during the past @xmath18 yr .",
    "the ratio of the far - infrared ( fir ) to radio luminosity , @xmath19 , is a factor of 3 - 5 lower than for spiral galaxies .",
    "the average values derived for galaxy samples range from @xmath20 ( bright galaxies , condon anderson & helou 1991 ) to @xmath21 ( normal spiral galaxies , e.g. condon et al .",
    "1991 , lisenfeld et al .",
    "1996a ) with a typical standard deviation of 0.2 in the logarithm .",
    "this result is most likely due to an unusually high radio luminosity ; the fir luminosity does not appear unusually low compared to its blue luminosity ( @xmath16 ) , or the inferred h@xmath22 mass ( @xmath23 ; for our galaxy @xmath24 , solomon et al . 1992 ) .",
    "on the other hand , the radio luminosity is high compared to luminosities in other bands . for example the radio to blue luminosity ratio @xmath25 is a factor of 7.5 higher than found for a sample of sb galaxies ( hummel et al .",
    "furthermore , the radio surface brightness is high as reflected in the magnetic field strength , @xmath26 g , estimated using the minimum energy method in which @xmath27 .",
    "hummel et al .",
    "( 1988 ) derived for a sample of sb galaxies ( with the same assumption for the minimum energy calculation ) an average value of 8 @xmath28 g .",
    "deviations from the fir / radio correlation have been found before for cluster ( niklas , klein & wielebinski 1995 ) and interacting galaxies ( ngc  2276 , hummel & beck 1995 ) . also in these cases",
    "the conclusion by the authors was that the radio emission is enhanced compared to normal galaxies .",
    "the reasons for this enhancement have been suggested to be either an additional production of crs by shock acceleration at interstellar shocks produced by the interaction of the galaxy with the intercluster medium ( vlk & xu 1993 ) , or an enhanced magnetic field ( hummel & beck 1995 ) .      the diffusion scale of the cr electrons in ngc  1961 is approximately 3.7  kpc at 1.46 ghz ( taking @xmath26 g , @xmath29",
    "ev @xmath30 , and a typical diffusion coefficient of @xmath31cm@xmath11s@xmath3 ) . at the distance of ngc 1961 the 16-arcsec beam corresponds to 6.4 kpc ; to a good approximation , therefore , the observations average over the synchrotron emission of both newly accelerated and aged cr electrons .",
    "the spectral variations reflect variations in the thermal fraction , differences in the conditions of the ism and in the cr injection , but not effects due to propagation of the cr electrons .",
    "the shape of the non - thermal spectrum reflects temporal variations of past cr acceleration and therefore of the star - formation history if sn remnants are the most important source for the acceleration of cr electrons . the steep synchrotron spectrum at the centre and in the south - eastern arm ( positions 3 and 4 in fig .",
    "7 ) indicate aged cr electrons ; the spectra can not be explained by continous cr acceleration since this would require an injection spectral index of @xmath33 . in the region between the centre and the south - eastern arm",
    "the synchrotron spectrum is much flatter , indicating recent electron acceleration .",
    "the electron age distribution derived from the spectral fitting analysis gives a time since acceleration for the cr electron population at the maximum of the radio emission and in the south - eastern arm ( positions 3 and 4 ) of @xmath34 yr , whereas the electrons between these sites are considerably younger ( @xmath35 yr ) .",
    "this leads to the following picture of the star formation history .",
    "the end of cr injection @xmath4 yr ago indicates that the sn activity ceased at that time .",
    "the life - time of sn progenitor stars is at maximum @xmath36 years ( corresponding to a stellar mass of 5 @xmath37 ) , which suggests an epoch of intense sf which ended @xmath38 yr ago .",
    "the beginning of the star formation epoch can not be constrained by our data .",
    "the recent acceleration of cr electrons deduced from the flat spectral index of the extended radio emission means that the cr injection and thus sn activity at these sites has recently started .",
    "the spectra are too flat to be explained by continous cr acceleration because in this case the contribution from aged cr electrons to the radio emission would steepen the spectrum , and approximating this situation to that of a steady - state we would expect a synchrotron spectral index of @xmath39 . taking @xmath40 ,",
    "the expected synchrotron spectral index on the basis of a steady state model is much steeper than the observed one , which is , attributing as an upper limit all of the observed flux density at 15  ghz to the thermal emission , @xmath41 .",
    "these results are most consistent with a recent burst of star formation @xmath42yr ago followed by a peak sn rate about @xmath43yr ago .",
    "the time - scales derived from this analysis imply that a causal connection between the star formation epochs is possible , in the sense that the earlier star formation period in the arm may have triggered an episode of star formation in the inter - arm region .",
    "the width of the south - eastern arm is about 10 kpc and taking a typical sound speed to be 10 km / s a sn shock would take approximately @xmath17 yr to cross the arm which is consistent with the time - scale inferred for the star formation history .",
    "shsvv suggested that an encounter of ngc 1961 with an intergalactic cloud took place less than @xmath44 yr ago ( the rotation time - scale ) , and triggered an episode of intense star formation in the south - eastern arm .",
    "they presented an optical colour image showing that the south - eastern arm has indeed a blue colour , indicating recent star - formation .",
    "this is consistent with the star - formation history that we infer .      in the above analysis",
    "we have assumed that the magnetic field strength is constant over the galactic disk ; this is very likely not the case .",
    "compression of the ism and/or the presence of shocks throughout the disc will lead to enhanced magnetic field strengths and hence increased radio synchrotron luminosity relative to fir .",
    "such processes were inferred by shsvv from the morphology of the hi  distribution . however",
    ", an enhanced magnetic field strength in the south - eastern arm alone can not explain the large radio - to - fir ratio since the radio flux density at 1.46 ghz of the south - eastern arm contributes only about 15  @xmath45 to the total flux density of the galaxy .",
    "if the magnetic field varies on scales shorter than that of the cr electron propagation it has an effect not only on the local synchrotron emission but also on the integrated spectral index . in particular ,",
    "if the magnetic field strength decreases ( increases ) away from the source of cr electrons , the spectrum can become significantly flatter ( steeper ) .",
    "the problem can be solved in a one - dimensional model in which the magnetic field strength and the energy density of the radiation field change with increasing height over the galactic disk , z. assuming that the magnetic field strength varies as @xmath46 , the energy losses as @xmath47 and the energy dependence of the diffusion coefficient is @xmath48 , then the resulting spectral index is , in the steady state , @xmath49 ( berezinsky et al . 1990 ) . taking @xmath50 , we see that in the case @xmath51 ( i.e. spatially constant inverse compton losses dominate the energy losses ) the difference of the spectral index with respect to the case of a constant magnetic field is @xmath52 for an increasing magnetic field with @xmath53 this yields @xmath54 and for @xmath55 @xmath56 .",
    "thus a significant steepening of the spectrum is possible . if however synchrotron losses ( @xmath57 ) dominate then , since @xmath58 , we set @xmath59 and get : @xmath60 in this case only a very weak steepening of the spectrum is possible ; for @xmath61 @xmath62 is zero for all values of @xmath63 and @xmath64 .    for ngc  1961",
    "the high radio surface brightness suggests that synchrotron losses dominate . in this case",
    ", the above analysis shows that under steady - state conditions variations in the field strength do not lead to significant variation in the spectral index .",
    "steep spectra in the south - east arm could , however , result from a non - steady - state scenario in which enhancement of the field was followed by a burst of star formation with increased synchrotron loss rate ",
    "it is not possible to modify the spectrum significantly without incorporating into a model variation in the star - formation rate .",
    "shsvv suggest that a collision with an intergalactic cloud has resulted in the unusual hi  distribution in ngc  1961 .",
    "such an interaction with the igm can explain in addition to the optical and hi  morphology many features of the radio emission provided the interaction triggered an episode of intense sf in the south - eastern arm .",
    "the main difficulty with this model is that the massive intergalactic cloud required has not been observed either as ionized ( pence & rots 1997 ) or in neutral ( shsvv ) gas .",
    "an alternative view is that the disturbed appearance of ngc 1961 could be the result of a merger .",
    "shsvv discarded this possibility since they found no evidence for it either in the optical ( i.e. there is no second nucleus ) or in the hi  distribution .",
    "however , our high resolution radio images reveal the presence of a second nucleus in the centre of the galaxy consistent with an advanced merger ; the disturbed optical and hi  appearance is then naturally explained as a merger remnant .",
    "near - infrared observations will provide an important indication as to whether a highly obscured optical nucleus is present .",
    "we have presented radio data at 4 frequencies of the supermassive spiral galaxy ngc 1961 . using these data we fitted a combined aged - synchrotron plus thermal emission spectrum to each point in the galaxy .",
    "the most recent star formation , that is traced by the thermal radio emission , is mainly taking place in the centre and the south - eastern arm of the galaxy , whereas the underlying extended radio emission is predominantly nonthermal .    the spectral index distribution between 1.46 and 4.92  ghz over the disk of the galaxy shows a peculiar behaviour .",
    "at the maxima of the radio emission the nonthermal spectral index is very steep whereas the extended radio emission has a much flatter spectrum .",
    "we discuss various possibilities to explain this peculiar behaviour .",
    "the most likely explanation is that the steep spectrum is due to the end of the cr injection about @xmath4 years ago . assuming that crs are accelerated mainly in snrs this means that a phase of intense sf has ceased @xmath65 yr ago .",
    "the flat spectrum of the extended emission is a sign of recent cr acceleration in these regions .",
    "this could be due to cr acceleration in the shocks of snrs of a recently formed stellar population .",
    "the radio - to - fir ratio exceeds the average value of spiral galaxies by a factor of 3 - 4 .",
    "an overall increase of the magnetic field with respect to the radiation field could account for this high fir / radio ratio .",
    "spatial variations of the magnetic field , which are likely to be present if the magnetic field is frozen into the gas , are however unable to give the observed distribution of the spectral index .",
    "the discovery of a second radio nucleus leads us to suggest that ngc  1961 is most likely the result of a merger rather than collision with a massive intergalactic gas cloud .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , caltech , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "ul gratefully acknowledges the receipt of a grant of the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) and by the comisin interministerial de ciencia y technologa ( spain ) .",
    "becker r.h . ,",
    "white r.l . , edwards a.l . , 1991 , apjs , 75 , 1 berezinsky v.s . , bulanow s.v . , ginzburgv.l . , dogiel v.a . , ptsuskin v.s . , 1990 , astrophysics of cosmic rays , north holland , p. 189",
    "condon j.j . , 1983 , apjs , 53 , 459 condon j.j . , 1987 , apjs , 65 , 485 condon j.j . , anderson m.l . , helou g. , 1991 , apj , 376 , 95 de vaucouleurs g. , de vaucouleurs a. , corwin h. , et al . , 1991 , _ third reference catalog of galaxies _ , springer - verlag , new york ( rc3 ) gioia i.m . , gregorini l. , klein u. , 1982 , a&a , 116 , 164 gottesmann s.t .",
    ", hunter jr .",
    "shostak g.s . , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 21p howarth n.a . , 1990 ,",
    "thesis , university of cambridge huchra j.p .",
    ", 1977 , apjs , 35 , 171 hummel e. , davies r.d . ,",
    "wolstencroft r.d . , van der hulst j.m .",
    ", pedlar a. , 1988 , a&a , 199 , 91 hummel e. , beck r. , 1995 , a&a , 303 , 691 iras faint source catalog , 1990 , version 2.0 , morshir m. , kopon g. , conrow t. , et al . , infrared processing and analysis center israel f.p .",
    ", mahoney m.j . , 1990 , apj , 352 , 30 jaffe w. j. , perola g.c . , 1974 , a&a , 26 , 423 lisenfeld u. , vlk h.j . , xu c. , 1996a , a&a , 306 , 677 lisenfeld u. , vlk h.j . , xu c. , 1996b , a&a , 314 , 745 niklas s. , klein u. , wielebinski r. , 1995 , a&a , 293 , 56 niklas s. , klein u. , braine j. , wielebinski r. , 1995 , a&as , 114 , 21 pence w. , rots a. , 1997 , apj , 478 , 107 romanishin w. , 1983 , mnras , 204 , 909 shostak g.s . , hummel e. , shaver p.a . , van der hulst j.m . , van der kruit p.c . , 1982 , a&a , 115 , 293 ( shsvv ) vlk h.j . ,",
    "xu c. , 1993 , infrared phys.technol .",
    "35 , 527 white r.l . ,",
    "becker r.h . , 1992 ,",
    "apjs , 79 , 331 young j. , xie s. , tacconi l. , et al . , 1995 , apjs , 98 , 219"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new radio continuum data at 4 frequencies on the supermassive , peculiar galaxy ngc  1961 . </S>",
    "<S> these observations allow us to separate the thermal and the nonthermal radio emission and to determine the nonthermal spectral index distribution . </S>",
    "<S> this spectral index distribution in the galactic disk is unusual : at the maxima of the radio emission the synchrotron spectrum is very steep , indicating aged cosmic ray electrons . </S>",
    "<S> away from the maxima the spectrum is much flatter . </S>",
    "<S> the steep spectrum of the synchrotron emission at the maxima indicates that a strong decline of the star formation rate has taken place at these sites . </S>",
    "<S> the extended radio emission is a sign of recent cosmic ray acceleration , probably by recent star formation . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that a violent event in the past , most likely a merger or a collision with an intergalactic gas cloud , has caused the various unusual features of the galaxy .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : individual : ngc  1961  galaxies : ism  galaxies : magnetic fields  cosmic rays  </S>",
    "<S> radio continuum : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}