{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the distinctive features in the universe is the presence of gravitationally collapsed structures , like galaxies , groups and clusters of galaxies .",
    "the distribution of masses of these structures , usually called the mass or multiplicity function , has been determined observationally @xcite , and is one of the most important characteristics of the universe that proposed cosmological models attempting to explain the formation of structure need to reproduce .    in order to proceed with a comparison between these observations and the theoretical expectations of different structure formation models , it is of fundamental importance to be able to predict with reasonable accuracy the mass function associated with the theoretical models . the most direct way of doing this is to perform n - body simulations ( for a recent review see bertschinger 1998 ) , where a distribution of dark matter particles alone , or in conjunction with gas particles , is evolved under gravity . however , these simulations take a considerable time to complete , being impracticable if a large number of structure formation models are being studied simultaneously .",
    "another method for estimating the theoretical mass function is to use analytical approximations . among the several that have been proposed ,",
    "the framework put forward by press and schechter ( 1974 , hereafter ps ) has proved the most successful in reproducing the mass function obtained through n - body simulations , albeit the very simplified assumptions that are made .    until recently the approach proposed by press and schechter to estimate the mass function was almost always ( but see lucchin & matarrese 1988 ) applied in the context of structure formation models where the perturbations induced in the density field have a gaussian random - phase distribution independently of the scale considered .",
    "this assumption is not only the simplest to take , but is also expected when perturbations are produced by an inflationary phase in the very early universe ( e.g. liddle & lyth 1993 ) .",
    "however , there is at present a renewed interest in structure formation models which predict a non - gaussian density distribution , either within the context of inflation @xcite , or as a result of the dynamics of topological defects @xcite .",
    "in an attempt to compare their predictions with the observed mass function , particularly at the scale of galaxy clusters ( chiu , ostriker & strauss 1998 ; koyama , soda & taruya 1999 ; robinson , gawiser & silk 1999a , b ; willick 1999 ) a particular generalization of the press - schechter framework has been used , so that the assumed density field no longer needs to be gaussian .",
    "this so - called extended press - schechter ( eps ) approach has recently been proved to be quite successful in reproducing the results for the mass function obtained from n - body simulations with non - gaussian conditions @xcite .",
    "the eps method was obtained by closely following the reasoning behind the original ps work , in the hope that it would end up as successful in predicting the mass function . the fact that this seems to be the case increases our perplexity as to why the general ps framework works at all , given all the simplifications it entails , like spherical collapse and that at a given smoothing scale all the structures that form have equal mass .",
    "the particular issue we will study here is the so - called cloud - in - cloud problem , with the others addressed in forthcoming papers .",
    "this aspect of ps - based approaches to the calculation of the mass function has been investigated previously ( epstein 1983 , 1984 ; schaeffer & silk 1988 ; peacock & heavens 1990 ; bond et al .",
    "1991 ; jedamzik 1996 ; yano , nagashima & gouda 1996 ; monaco 1998 ) , although always in the context of gaussian initial conditions .    until now",
    "the cloud - in - cloud problem within the eps framework has been dealt with in the same simplified manner as in the original ps derivation . in order to determine to",
    "what extent such a treatment of the problem is justified , we follow the numerical approach laid down by monaco ( 1997a , b ; 1998 ) , simulating density fields with non - gaussian one - point probability distributions in cubic boxes with periodic boundary conditions .    in the first section we describe succinctly the press - schechter approach to the derivation of the mass function , and how it can be extended to accommodate non - gaussian initial conditions . in the following section we discuss the cloud - in - cloud problem and how several authors have tried to avoid it , describing in detail the numerical approach we have chosen to study it . finally , in the last two sections we present the results of our analysis and discuss their importance to the proposed extended press - schechter framework .",
    "the press - schechter theory was originally proposed @xcite , in the context of initial gaussian density perturbations , as a simple analytical tool for predicting the mass fraction associated with collapsed objects with mass larger than some given mass thereshold @xmath1 .",
    "this is obtained by measuring the fraction of space in which the evolved linear density field exceeds a given density contrast @xmath2 , @xmath3 for spherical collapse in an einstein - de sitter universe @xmath2 equals @xmath4 , being almost insensitive to a change in the assumed background cosmology ( e.g. eke , cole & frenk 1996 ) . in the case of gaussian initial conditions then , @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the complementary error function and @xmath7 is the dispersion of the density field at the scale @xmath8 . for a top - hat window , @xmath1 is related to @xmath8 via @xmath9 , with @xmath10 being the background density .",
    "the right hand side in expression ( [ psg ] ) is usually multiplied by a factor of @xmath11 , as originally suggested by press and schechter , so that @xmath12 thus taking into account the accretion of material initially present in regions underdense at the smoothing scale @xmath8 .",
    "the mass function of collapsed objects can be obtained simply by deriving expression ( [ psg ] ) ( multiplied by the factor @xmath11 ) with relation to @xmath1 , and then dividing by @xmath13 .",
    "the original ps approach can be easily generalized for non - gaussian density perturbations , simply by considering in expression ( [ ps ] ) a non - gaussian one - point probability distribution function ( henceforth pdf ) @xmath14 . in order for all the mass in the universe to be accounted for the expression",
    "then needs to be multiplied by @xmath15 .",
    "this re - normalization is equivalent to multiplying by the factor @xmath11 in the gaussian case .",
    "surprisingly , this very simple extension of the ps approach to non - gaussian initial conditions was only taken seriously for the first time by chiu , ostriker and strauss ( 1997 ) .",
    "since then it has been tested with some success for a few non - gaussian structure formation models against n - body simulations @xcite .",
    "it should be noted that as long as the dispersion of the density field depends on the smoothing scale @xmath8 considered , @xmath7 , the pdf for the matter density is necessarily scale - dependent , @xmath16 .",
    "what is usually meant by saying that such pdf is invariant with scale , is that the _ reduced _ distribution , @xmath17/\\sigma(r)$ ] , is always the same , i.e. the _ shape _ of the reduced pdf does not depend on the scale under consideration .",
    "for example , the simplest inflationary models predict a gaussian pdf for the matter density at all scales ( e.g. liddle & lyth 1993 ) , in the sense that at any scale the reduced form of the pdf is always equal to a gaussian with zero mean and dispersion unity .    in the case of alternative structure formation models one could have two other scenarios . in the more general one ,",
    "the shape of the reduced pdf for the matter density depends on the smoothing scale being considered .",
    "this is indeed what is expected when the matter density distribution is generated , for example , through the dynamics of topological defects @xcite .",
    "the second possibility is that the reduced pdf for the matter density is scale - independent , but non - gaussian , i.e. not equal to a gaussian with zero mean and dispersion unity . here , for simplicity",
    ", we will focus our study on this second scenario , with the knowledge that it can be easily generalized to the first one .",
    "= 4.8 cm    as we have previously shown , there is a fundamental difficulty with the normalization of expression ( [ ps ] ) .",
    "we have seen that in the gaussian case a factor of @xmath11 had to be introduced to correctly take into account the fact that material in initially underdense regions at some smoothing scale r is eventually accreted and incorporated into the collapsed objects that form from the initially overdense regions at that scale . in other words ,",
    "the factor @xmath11 accounts for the material that although not in the regions predicted to collapse at the smoothing scale @xmath8 , will nevertheless become part of collapsed objects associated with scales larger than @xmath8 . only by smoothing the density field at these scales",
    "would this material count as collapsed , but clearly this should happen in the first place when @xmath18 is calculated .",
    "this is the so - called cloud - in - cloud problem in the ps approach .",
    "several authors have tried to find a more satisfactory solution for the cloud - in - cloud problem than just multiplying expression ( [ ps ] ) by @xmath11 , as proposed by press and schechter .",
    "the first to approach the problem were epstein ( 1983 , 1984 ) and schaeffer & silk ( 1988 ) .",
    "but it was only with the work of peacock and heavens ( 1990 ) and bond et al .",
    "( 1991 ) that a comprehensive framework was put in place to study the cloud - in - cloud problem and its ramifications .",
    "the assumptions behind the two approaches are very similar , with the later using a more formal line of reasoning based on the theory of excursion sets . the method we will use here to study the cloud - in - cloud problem within the eps framework",
    "was first used by monaco ( 1997a , b ; 1998 ) for the case of gaussian density fields .",
    "it is basically a numerical implementation of the approach pioneered by peacock and heavens ( 1990 ) and bond et al .",
    "density fields with an assumed pdf , and which only differ in the scale at which the smoothing is applied , are generated in cubic grids .",
    "starting from the largest scale , trajectories for all the points in the density field are then constructed with the values for the density contrast recorded at each smoothing scale . in the gaussian case , and if the smoothing is performed with a sharp - k window , the trajectories followed by the points are brownian random walks . in this very particular example , the number of points which exceed some density contrast at any smoothing scale is equal to the number of points which though at such scale do not exceed the assumed density contrast , at some other _ larger _ scale do . in this case",
    "the re - normalization factor one needs to multiply expression ( [ ps ] ) with is exactly @xmath11 , as press and schechter initially proposed .",
    "this was formally proved by bond et al .",
    "( 1991 ) using excursion set theory .",
    "unfortunately , it is the only instance when their approach can be used to solve the cloud - in - cloud problem . for any other smoothing window or probability distribution",
    "the random walk characteristic disappears , and the problem becomes analytically intractable . in these cases , either one uses the method proposed by peacock and heavens ( 1990 ) , and expanded in monaco ( 1997a , b ; 1998 ) , which also has its limitations , or the numerical approach considered here .",
    "our numerical realizations of density fields were performed in cubic grids with @xmath19 points .",
    "they were generated in the same manner as the density fields used to set initial conditions in n - body simulations ( see e.g. bertschinger & gelb 1991 ; klypin & holtzman 1997 ) .",
    "we considered one example of a scale - independent reduced non - gaussian pdf for the density contrast , the chi - square , the pdf having been shifted so that its mean is zero .",
    "such a pdf is expected in certain models of structure formation , involving either isocurvature density perturbations generated during an inflationary period in the very early universe @xcite or cosmic string seeded perturbations @xcite .",
    "we also considered the gaussian case for comparison .",
    "the chi - square has the added attractive feature that the reduced pdf remains approximately the same when smoothed on a variety of length scales using either gaussian ( gau ) or top - hat ( th ) windows ( e.g. white 1999 ) .",
    "the reduced pdf that results from the smoothing becomes increasingly different from the original as the number of degrees of freedom , @xmath20 , gets smaller , with the most important departures relatively to the original reduced pdf shape being a decrease in the probability of @xmath21 taking values around zero , i.e. the mean , and the appearance of a non - zero probability of @xmath21 taking values just outside the cut - off , equal to @xmath22 .",
    "fortunately , these differences only become noticeable for @xmath20 smaller than about 10 . however , when the smoothing is performed using a sharp - k ( sk ) window , the departure of the smoothed pdf from the original increases considerably . now , as soon as @xmath20 becomes less than about 100 the difference starts to show .",
    "nevertheless , we will be only interested in the fraction of the reduced pdf that lies above @xmath23 , and this part of the distribution is little changed by smoothing , even in the case of a sk window .    with the above in mind , for different @xmath20 values we assumed that the power spectrum associated with the density contrast was a power - law , @xmath24 , where @xmath25 is the wavenumber and @xmath26 .",
    "we generated several sets of density fields for each combination of @xmath20 and @xmath27 values , such that all realizations within each set only differed in the smoothing scale applied .",
    "the three smoothing windows mentioned above were considered : sharp - k , top - hat , and a gaussian .",
    "however , we will only show the results for sk and gau smoothing , given that those for th smoothing turn out very similar to the gau ones .",
    "also , we opted for showing just the results obtained for @xmath28 , which is closest to the slope of the matter power spectrum on the scale of galaxy clusters @xcite , as they are basically indistinguishable from the results for the two other spectral indexes , @xmath29 and @xmath30 .    on the left panel of fig .",
    "1 we show , for the reduced gaussian pdf , the fraction of mass collapsed above a certain smoothing scale as a function of the value of the dispersion of the density field at that scale , @xmath31 , calculated using the method presented here and the eps approach .",
    "the same quantities are shown on the left panel of fig . 2 for a reduced chi - square pdf with @xmath32 , @xmath33 , @xmath34 ( note that the @xmath35 case is equivalent to a reduced gaussian pdf ) .",
    "on the right panels of fig . 1 and fig . 2 we show @xmath36 instead .",
    "the theoretical mass function can be easily obtained by multiplying @xmath36 by @xmath37 and dividing by @xmath13 . in the case of power - law spectra as the ones we consider here , @xmath38 .    in all cases",
    "the thereshold for the density contrast above which we assume a field point to be collapsed is @xmath39 , which is equivalent to assuming spherical collapse in an einstein - de sitter cosmology .",
    "the results presented can be easily generalized for any other thereshold , @xmath40 , by making the identification @xmath41 .    in the case of sk smoothing and in the limit of a reduced gaussian pdf ,",
    "the eps approach ( which then simply reduces to ps ) correctly predicts @xmath31 , and thus @xmath36 , as expected .",
    "the famous factor of @xmath11 in the normalization is recovered . as the number of degrees of freedom decreases",
    "the assumed reduced pdf starts to differ from a reduced gaussian , and the eps prediction increasingly overestimates the numerically determined collapsed mass fraction and mass function . in the case of the gau window ( as mentioned before the results for th smoothing are very similar ) , the numerical results deviate from those predicted through the eps approach even when assuming a gaussian pdf .",
    "for this particular pdf , we find that for small values of @xmath0 ( i.e. large mass scales ) , both the predicted collapsed mass fraction and the mass function seem to approach the result one would obtain if the ps approach was used without the normalization factor of 2 .",
    "the same conclusion had already been reached analytically by peacock and heavens ( 1990 ) , being numerically confirmed by bond et al .",
    "( 1991 ) ( see also monaco 1997b ) .",
    "we have shown that the eps approach does not correctly take into account the existence of regions , which though at some smoothing scale are unable to pass a certain collapse thereshold are nevertheless able to do it at larger scales , in the estimation of the mass function .",
    "this problem was already known to exist within the ps framework , except when the smoothing of the density field was performed using a sharp - k window .",
    "now , we have found that even when this window is used , the eps approach can not adequately solve the cloud - in - cloud problem .",
    "the mass function predicted by the eps approach deviates most from the numerical results for small values of @xmath0 , which correspond to the large mass end in models where structure builds up hierarchically .",
    "the only n - body simulations that have been used to check whether the eps approach provides a good fit to the mass function were limited in range to values of @xmath0 larger than around 0.5 , except for a couple of points with relatively large error bars , and at the limit of statistical significance @xcite . for these @xmath0 values , the eps prediction for the mass function has not yet entered the regime where it differs significantly from the numerical results obtained in this paper , particularly when one considers sharp - k smoothing .",
    "it is therefore not surprising that the n - body results seem to vindicate the eps approach .",
    "however , our analysis should throw a note of caution .",
    "in the regime where the mass function is defined essentially through the abundance of rare density peaks , the eps approach may not be reliable when one is dealing with strongly non - gaussian pdfs .",
    "this may affect some recent conclusions regarding the gaussianity of the density field on large scales , drawn from the abundance of rich galaxy clusters at different redshifts and their present - day correlation length ( chiu , ostriker & strauss 1998 ; koyama , soda & taruya 1999 ; robinson , gawiser & silk 1999a , b ; willick 1999 ) .",
    "it would be very interesting if larger n - body simulations could be carried out , able to extend the mass function further into the low-@xmath0 , rare events regime .",
    "the mass functions determined in this paper can still be further improved .",
    "here we focused our attention on the cloud - in - cloud problem .",
    "other issues were left untouched , more importantly , possible deviations from spherical collapse and the relation between smoothing radius versus the mass of the structures identified after each smoothing .",
    "we are presently looking at these issues .",
    "p.p.a . and p.t.p.v .",
    "are supported through the praxis xxi program of fct .",
    "albrecht a. , battye r. a. & robinson j.,1999 , phys .",
    "d , 59 , 23508 avelino p. p. , caldwell r. r. & martins c. j. a. p. , 1999",
    "d , in press , astro - ph/9809130 avelino p. p. , shellard e. p. s. , wu j. h. p. , allen b. , 1998a , phys . rev .",
    "lett . , 81 , 2008 avelino p. p. , shellard e. p. s. , wu j. h. p. , allen b. , 1998b , apj .",
    ", 507 , l101 avelino p. p. , wu j. h. p. , shellard e. p. s. , 1999 , submitted to mnras , astro - ph/9906313 ashman k. m. , salucci p. & persic m. , 1993 , mnras , 260 , 610 bertschinger e. , 1998 , ann .",
    "ast . , 36 , 599 bertschinger e. & gelb j. m. , 1991 , comp .",
    "phys . , 5 , 164 bond j.r . , cole s. , efstathiou g. , kaiser n. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 440 chiu w. a. , ostriker j. p. & strauss m. a. , 1998 , apj , 479 , 490 contaldi c. , hindmarsh m. & magueijo j. , 1999 , phys .",
    "lett . , 82 , 679 henry j. p. & arnaud k. a. , 1991 , apj , 372",
    ", 410 eke v. r. , cole s. , frenk c. s. & henry p. , 1998 ,",
    "mnras , 298 , 1145 eke v. r. , cole s. , frenk c. s. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 263 epstein r. i. , 1983 , mnras , 205 , 207 epstein r. i. , 1984 , apj , 281 , 545 jedamzik k. , 1995 , apj , 448 , 1 klypin a. & holtzman j. , 1997 , astro - ph/9712217 koyama k. , soda j. & taruya a. , 1999 , astro - ph/9903027 liddle a. r. & lyth d. h. , phys .",
    ", 231 , 1 lucchin f. & matarrese s. , apj , 330 , 535 ( 1988 ) markevitch m. , 1998 , apj , 504 , 27 martin j. , riazuelo a. & sakellariadou m. , 1999 , submitted to phys .",
    "d , astro - ph/9904167 monaco p. , 1997a ,",
    "mnras , 287 , 753 monaco p. , 1997b ,",
    "mnras , 290 , 439 monaco p. , 1998 , fund .",
    "phys . , 1998 , 19 , 153 peacock j. a. & heavens a. f. , 1990 , mnras , 243 , 133 peebles p. j. e. , apj , 1999 , 510 , 523 press w. h. & schechter p. , 1974",
    ", apj , 187 , 425 robinson j. & baker j.e . , 1999 , astro - ph/9905098 robinson j. , gawiser e. & silk j. , 1999 , submitted to apj , astro - ph/9805181 robinson j. , gawiser e. & silk j. , 1999 , submitted to apj , astro - ph/9906156 salopek d. s. , 1999 , to be published in proceedings of cosmo-98 : international workshop on particle physics and the early universe , ed .",
    "d. caldwell , astro - ph/9903327 schaeffer r. & silk j. , 1988 , apj , 332 , 1 willick j.a .",
    ", 1999 , submitted to apj , astro - ph/9904367 yano t. , nagashima m. & gouda n. , 1996 , apj , 466,1"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the cloud - in - cloud problem is studied in the context of the extension to non - gaussian density fields of the press - schechter approach for the calculation of the mass function . as an example of a non - gaussian probability distribution functions ( pdfs ) we consider the chi - square , with various degrees of freedom . </S>",
    "<S> we generate density fields in cubic boxes with periodic boundary conditions and then determine the number of points considered collapsed at each scale through an hierarchy of smoothing windows . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the mass function we obtain differs from that predicted using the extended press - schechter formalism , particularly for low values of @xmath0 and for those pdfs most distinct from a gaussian .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology : theory </S>"
  ]
}