{
  "article_text": [
    "the neutral gas surrounding regions is an excellent laboratory for the purpose of understanding the interactions between the uv radiation of young newly formed stars and the surrounding molecular clouds .",
    "such photon dominated regions ( pdr s ) have been the subject of both theoretical ( e.g.  tielens & hollenbach 1985 , sternberg & dalgarno 1995 ) and observational attention ( e.g.   herrmann et al . 1996 ) .",
    "the most easily observable example of a pdr is perhaps that provided by the orion nebula and the surrounding hot neutral gas .",
    "of particular interest is the elongated bar  like feature to the south  east of the orion trapezium stars known as the orion bar ( see tielens et al .  1993 , hogerheijde et al .",
    "1995 , van der werf et al .",
    "1996 for recent discussions ) .",
    "the bar is elongated in a direction on the plane of the sky almost perpendicular to the line of sight to the o6 star @xmath3c ori in the trapezium , which is responsible for ionizing the region and heating the neutral gas .",
    "this fact makes it possible for us to observe stratification within the bar along the line of sight to @xmath4c ori .",
    "thus , the bar seen in free ",
    "free emission from the ionized gas is clearly offset with respect to the bar seen in rovibrational lines of  and fine structure lines of and from the neutral gas .",
    "these in turn are offset relative to the bar as seen in various molecular species ( see tielens et al .  1993 , herrmann et al .",
    "1996 for examples ) .",
    "it has been concluded that the observed stratification is consistent with a mean hydrogen density of @xmath1 .",
    "on the other hand , high angular resolution maps of the bar in various molecular transitions ( tauber et al .",
    "1994 ) have shown that the neutral gas is structured and quite inhomogeneous with clump densities as high as @xmath5 .",
    "the carbon radio recombination lines offer an alternative approach to studying pdr s .",
    "their emission is invariably optically thin and proportional to the _ square _ of the electron density ( or equivalently of the carbon abundance in the neutral regions where carbon is singly ionized ) .",
    "natta et al .",
    "( 1994 ) demonstrate moreover that one can use the ratio of the radio line intensity to that of the far infrared  line to infer the density in the layer where carbon is singly ionized .",
    "they observed  with the effelsberg 100-m telescope at several positions in orion and derived densities of @xmath5  .",
    "these observations however were made with a relatively poor angular resolution ( 80 ) which rendered difficult the comparison with other pdr tracers in orion .",
    "we have therefore undertaken new carbon radio line observations with the objective of allowing a comparison both with far infrared and molecular line data . in the first place , we have mapped the   line using the effelsberg 100-m telescope at an angular resolution of 40 .",
    "this allows a reasonable comparison with the far infrared fine structure line maps of stacey et al .",
    "secondly , we have used the vla to map  towards the bar with 10  resolution .",
    "this can usefully be compared with the h@xmath6 maps of van der werf et al .",
    "( 1996 ) as well as with recent studies of ( 32 ) made with the cso telescope ( lis et al .",
    "1997 ) . in this paper",
    ", we present the results of the carbon radio line mapping and show that the stratification seen in other species is also clearly present in the vla  maps .",
    "the observations were carried out using the effelsberg 100-m telescope on 4 sessions in september 1993 , march 1994 , january and december 1996 .",
    "pointing was tested on 3c120 and 3c161 at hourly intervals and has an accuracy of 5 .",
    "the facility k - band maser was used with system temperatures of 150 to 200  k. we observed a 5  square region centered between the bar and the trapezium in a total power mode with reference positions 75  to the east .",
    "the spectrometer was a autocorrelator which was split into two sections of 512  channels and centered on  ( 23415.9609  mhz ) and h65  ( 23404.2793  mhz ) .",
    "each section had a bandwidth of 12.5  mhz yielding a spectral resolution of 0.3  .",
    "the telescope half - power beamwidth at 23.416  ghz is 40 .",
    "we observed the orion bar in july 1996 using the vla in its d configuration .",
    "the basic observing parameters were as given in table 1 .",
    "the phase center of our map was chosen to be slightly offset from the bar in order to map also the total continuum radiation of the orion  a region .",
    "we observed a bandpass calibrator at intervals of 3  hours and made phase calibrations every 25  minutes .",
    "the data were processed using aips and resulted in synthesized beams of 11.7@xmath79.0  with natural weighting and a final rms noise of 2  mjy per beam ( 0.3  k ) in a channel map .",
    "our main difficulty is separating the blend of he91@xmath8  and   which is done by subtraction of a linear spectral baseline from every data point in the uv plane using small windows in the immediate neighborhood of the carbon line .",
    "this works well for the bar but could lead to overestimation of the line emission where the helium line dominates the spectra .",
    "a 3.5  cm continuum image was produced by summing over the line free channels . comparing  vla observations smoothed to the corresponding 100-m beam ( 80 ) with  100-m observations carried out in august 1996 of the bar",
    ", we found that we underestimate the  intensity due to the missing short spacing information by less than 30% .",
    "in fig .  1 , our  ( vla ) and  ( 100-m ) recombination line maps are shown compared with each other . despite the difference in angular resolutions ,",
    "one notes that the same basic features are seen on both maps .",
    "one sees the bar to the south - east , a compact ( 1 arc minute in size ) region 30  to the south  west of  in the central portion of the map , and another feature close to the bn - kl region on the northern edge of the map .",
    "it is interesting to compare our  ( 100-m ) integrated intensity map with the  contours from stacey et al .",
    "( 1993 ) . in this case",
    ", both lines are probing ionized carbon and with similar angular resolution .",
    "it is striking to note again the similarity of the general characteristics of these maps in spite of different excitation characteristics ( see natta et al .",
    "thus , we conclude that the fir and radio lines come from essentially the same regions in space although the recombination line shows a higher contrast and there are likely to be differences on scales of a few arc seconds .    that the regions seen in the carbon radio lines represent pdr s in the vicinity of ionization fronts",
    "is demonstrated by fig .",
    "2 . it shows our vla  map compared with our 3.5 cm continuum map representing the distribution of free  free emission from the ionized gas .",
    "the bar as seen in  is parallel to but offset by about 20  ( 0.05 pc ) from the bar of ionized gas .",
    "this is in the direction away from  and is thus consistent with ionization and heating from that source .",
    "the distribution of ( 32 ) observed by lis et al .",
    "( 1997 ) using the cso with a 20  hpbw is offset a further 20  to the se relative to  and thus , the carbon radio line emission is neatly sandwiched between the ionized and molecular media .",
    "a sample spectrum of the  line towards the bar is shown as an insert in fig .  2 compared with the corresponding   spectrum .",
    "one sees from this that the line profiles are very similar indicating a close link between the two .",
    "this kinematical agreement between molecular gas and carbon emission is found nearly everywhere showing the region to be very quiescent with only small velocity shifts . at most positions ,",
    "the line emission is narrow with line widths between 2 and 2.5 .",
    "the vla linewidths can be converted into upper limits on the kinetic temperature between 1000 and 1600  k in the region responsible for the  emission in the bar ( assuming thermal broadening to be solely responsible for the observed line width ) .",
    "the carbon lines are broader towards the clump of  emission to the sw of the trapezium where we find an upper limit to the temperature of 3000 k.      by smoothing our vla  data to 40  resolution , we can make a direct estimate of the ratio of the intensities of the two recombination lines at several positions and table 2 gives the results .",
    "we also give the  intensities at the same positions derived from the maps of stacey et al .",
    "( 1993 ) .",
    "table 2 shows that we observe typical line intensity ratios ( ) / ( ) between 2.3 and 3.3 and ratios ( ) /i ( ) of 800 k  erg@xmath9  @xmath10  s  sr .",
    "one can compare the former with the ratios expected for hydrogenic departure coefficients ( @xmath11 s ) which , for example , are 5 for t=800  k and an electron density n@xmath12 of 10  ( see natta et al . fig .",
    "given our limits on the electron temperature and for reasonable electron densities , it is not possible to get agreement between observations and the line ratios predicted by hydrogenic recombination theory .",
    "we believe that the explanation of this is that dielectronic recombination of the type discussed by walmsley & watson ( 1982 ) causes the populations to be closer to being thermalised than hydrogenic theory predicts .",
    "if one goes to the extreme of thermalised level populations ( @xmath13 ) , the predicted ( ) / ( ) is 2.7 . a more reasonable assumption might be that atoms with a @xmath14 core have thermalised populations whereas atoms with @xmath15 cores are hydrogenic .",
    "then , applying eq .  8 from walmsley & watson(1982 )",
    ", we find ( ) / ( ) is 3.1 for @xmath16=200  k and @xmath17  .",
    "given the errors , both of these are consistent with the observations and we conclude that the dielectronic process drives the level populations close to the values expected in lte . in the following discussion , we have for simplicity set the @xmath11 s equal to unity .",
    "hot neutral gas in the neighborhood of ionization fronts is also traced by emission in the nir 2  lines of  which are collisionally excited at temperatures upwards of 1500  k although one may observe fluorescence at low temperatures .",
    "it is thus of interest to compare our vla map of  with the emission in the 1 - 0 s(1 ) line of  which was imaged by van der werf et al .",
    "the qualitative result of this is that the bar as seen in  corresponds generally with the carbon radio lines when one takes into account the difference in angular resolutions .",
    "a closer view reveals that the carbon radio line emission appears to peak slightly closer to  than does the emission from vibrationally excited molecular hydrogen .",
    "one obtains some insight into the situation from fig .  3 which shows the results of an homogeneous edge - on model derived using the pdr models of tielens & hollenbach ( 1985 ) with @xmath18(h)=@xmath19  and @xmath20 extrapolated to a density of @xmath21  .",
    "we assume a perfectly edge - on model without a tilt .",
    "the intensity of the  line , which is proportional to @xmath22 , increases with depth into the pdr and reaches a peak just in front of the transition zone c@xmath23//co .",
    "the observed cross cuts of  and  v=1 - 0 s(1 ) shown in fig .",
    "3 are averaged over the bar and the half - power point of the 3.5  cm continuum is used to define the ionization front .",
    "in contrast to the prediction of the homogeneous model , the observed  emission is broader and extends farther into the bar .",
    "but while the predictions for  are in qualitative agreement with observation , the same is not true for molecular hydrogen which is expected by theory to lie between ionization front and .",
    "the explanation of this is unclear but one possibility is that the heat input to the observed  emission is due to a shock .",
    "one difficulty with this interpretation ( see hill and hollenbach 1978 , tielens et al .",
    "1993 ) is the general quiescence of the gas in the bar discussed in sect .",
    "however , explaining our result seems to require either considerable heat input or fluorescence in a layer at a depth in the bar corresponding to roughly 5 magnitudes of visual extinction .",
    "we now summarize briefly the constraints on density and temperature in the layer of the bar emitting . as noted in sect .",
    "3.1 , we can place a limit of 1600  k on the kinetic temperature . in order to explain the observed  line intensity ( 5  k  peak value ) , we find ( taking @xmath13 , see last section ) that the carbon line emission measure @xmath24 ( in pc  @xmath25 ) is equal to @xmath26 where @xmath27 . for an orion carbon abundance [ c]/[h ] = @xmath28 ( peimbert 1993 ) and assuming @xmath29",
    ", we estimate the hydrogen density in the layer responsible for the observed  emission to be @xmath30 where @xmath31 ( pc ) is the depth of the bar along the line of sight ( of order 0.6  pc according to hogerheijde et al .",
    "thus for temperatures between 200 and 1600  k and @xmath32 , we find @xmath33 between @xmath1 and @xmath2   assuming a beam filling factor of 1 .",
    "this is consistent with recent estimates of the density on basis of cn and cs observations with comparable resolution ( simon et al .",
    "1997 ) and also consistent with our results of the previous section for a typical temperature in the  emission region of 300  k.",
    "our data show convincingly that carbon is ionized in a layer intermediate between molecular gas and ionization front .",
    "we put an upper limit on the temperature of the layer of 1600  k and find that the hydrogen density must be between @xmath1 and @xmath2  .",
    "we also have found evidence that the dielectronic recombination process discussed by walmsley & watson ( 1982 ) plays an important role in populating high @xmath18 levels under the conditions of the orion bar pdr .",
    "finally , we show that current models have difficulty in explaining the morphology of the vibrationally excited molecular hydrogen emission relative to ionized carbon in the orion bar .",
    "we acknowledge use of the vla of the national radio astronomical observatory which is operated by associated universities inc . under cooperative agreement with the national science foundation . dr",
    "g.  stacey kindly made available to us his  map of orion .",
    "we thank the referee ( d. hollenbach ) for his comments on the manuscript .",
    "c.m.w acknowledges the support from asi grants 94-rs-152 and ars-96 - 66 and cnr grant 96/00317 for star formation research at arcetri .",
    "herrmann , f. , madden , s. c. , nikola , t. , poglitsch , a. , timmermann , r. , geis , n. , townes , c. h. , & stacey , g. j. 1996 , apj ( in press ) hill , j. k. , & hollenbach , d. j. 1978 , apj , 225 , 390 hogerheijde , m. r. , jansen , d. , & van dishoeck , e. f. 1995 , a&a , 294 , 792 lis , d. c. , keene , j. , & schilke , p. 1997 , in prep .",
    "natta , a. , walmsley , c. m. , & tielens , a. g. g. m. 1994 , apj , 428 , 209 peimbert , m. 1993 , rev .",
    ", 27 , 9 simon , r. , stutzki , j. , sternberg , a. , & winnewisser , g. 1997 , a&a , submitted stacey , g. j. et al .",
    "1993 , apj , 404 , 219 sternberg , a. , & dalgarno , a. 1995 , apjs , 99 , 565 tauber , j. a. , tielens , a. g. g. m. , meixner , m. , & goldsmith , p. f. 1994 , apj , 422 , 136 tielens , a. g. g. m. , & hollenbach , d. 1985 , apj , 291 , 722 tielens , a. g. g. m. , meixner , m. m. , van der werf , p. p. , bregman , j. , tauber , j. a. , stutzki , j. , & rank , d. 1993 , _ science _",
    ", 262 , 86 walmsley , c. m. , & watson , w. d. 1982 , apj , 260 , 317 van der werf , p. p. , stutzki , j. , sternberg , a. , krabbe , a. 1996 , a&a , 313 , 633"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have carried out vla d - array observations of the  carbon recombination line as well as effelsberg 100-m observations of the  line in a 5  square region centered between the bar and the trapezium stars in the orion nebula with spatial resolutions of 10  and 40 , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> the results show the ionized carbon in the pdr associated with the orion bar to be in a thin , clumpy layer sandwiched between the ionization front and the molecular gas . from the observed line widths we get an upper limit on the temperature in the c@xmath0 layer of 1500  k and from the line intensity a hydrogen density between @xmath1 and @xmath2  for a homogeneous medium . </S>",
    "<S> the observed carbon level population is not consistent with predictions of hydrogenic recombination theory but could be explained by dielectronic recombination . </S>",
    "<S> the layer of ionized carbon seen in  is found to be essentially coincident with emission in the v=1 - 0 s(1 ) line of vibrationally excited molecular hydrogen . </S>",
    "<S> this is surprising in the light of current pdr models and some possible explanations of the discrepancy are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}