{
  "article_text": [
    "protoplanets form by the accretion of planetesimals .",
    "when planetesimals are accreted , they deliver rotational angular momentum due to their relative motion with respect to the protoplanet .",
    "this accretion is usually treated as collisionless , assuming that collisions among planetesimals can be neglected while they are within the hill sphere of the protoplanet . in collisionless accretion ,",
    "the angular momentum accreted from a uniform and dynamically cold disk of planetesimals results in slow retrograde rotation @xcite . @xcite",
    "have shown that rapid prograde rotation can only be achieved if disk density profiles are imposed such that the surface mass density near the outer edges of a protoplanet s feeding zone is significantly greater than that in the rest of the accretion zone .",
    "this suggests that protoplanets do not possess any significant spin due to collisionless planetesimal accretion .",
    "the final stage of terrestrial planet formation consists of collision and accretion events of a few dozen protoplanets of about @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "these giant impacts deliver spin angular momentum to the final planet .",
    "if giant impacts are solely responsible for the final spin properties of terrestrial planets then terrestial planets should display random obliquities ( the angle between the orbital and rotational angular momentum ) and exercise prograde and retrograde rotation with equal likelihood .    in this paper",
    ", we investigate the possibility of semi - collisional or collisional planetesimal accretion and the effect it would have on planetary spins . in ",
    "2 we first determine the range of planetesimal sizes for which semi - collisional or collisional accretion applies and derive the consequences of semi - collisional and collisional accretion for the spin of protoplanets .",
    "the spin of terrestial planets due to giant impacts of protoplanets is calculates in  3 and compared with the semi - collisional contribution .",
    "post giant - impact accretion is discussed in  4 .",
    "comparison with the solar system and conclusions follow in  5 .",
    "the hill radius denotes the distance from the protoplanet at which the tidal force due to the sun and the gravitational force due to the protoplanet both acting on a planetesimal are in equilibrium .",
    "it is given by @xmath1 where @xmath2 is the semi - major axis of the protoplanet and @xmath3 its mass .",
    "when two planetesimals collide with each other while passing through the hill sphere of the protoplanet , one or both of them become bound to the protoplanet .",
    "further collisions among the bound particles damp their random motions , leading to the formation of an accretion disk around the protoplanet @xcite ( see figure [ fig3 ] ) .",
    "inelastic planetesimal collisions and subsequent capture by the planet s gravitational field has been proposed in order to form circumplanetary disks from which regular satellites could form ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "here we are exploring the possibility that the growth of protoplanets is dominated by the accretion of such a planetesimal disk .",
    "the details of this accretion process , such as what fraction of bound particles will be accreted by the growing protoplanet , are uncertain .",
    "perturbations from nearby protoplanets and moons or gas , if still present at the time protoplanets form , may facilitate the dissipation of the planetesimals angular momentum allowing efficient accretion onto the protoplanet .      for dynamically cold planetesimal disks , the ratio between the rate of planetesimal collisions within the hill sphere to the rate of direct collisions onto the protoplanet is @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is the optical depth within the disk plane over a distance of @xmath6 and @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the protoplanet s radius .",
    "if @xmath9 , the accretion may be dominated by binding planetesimals into an accretion disk rather than direct impacts onto the protoplanet ; we call this semi - collisional accretion .",
    "collisional accretion takes over for @xmath10 .",
    "for inelastic planetesimals with velocity @xmath11 , the optical depth in the disk is given by @xmath12 where @xmath13 , @xmath14 , @xmath15 and @xmath16 are the protoplanet s keplerian angular velocity around the sun , the typical planetesimal radius , material density and overall mass surface density respectively .",
    "the random velocities of the planetesimals are damped by mutual collisions and stirred by gravitational interactions with the protoplanets . when these two processes are in equilibrium , we have @xmath17 where @xmath18 is the mass surface density of the protoplanets @xcite .",
    "most of the planetesimal accretion occurs when @xmath19 .",
    "the condition for semi - collisional accretion ( @xmath20 ) together with equation [ e1 ] , defines an upper limit to the planetesimal size for which semi - collisional accretion holds . using the minimum mass solar nebula @xcite surface density of @xmath21 at @xmath22 , @xmath23 and an isolation mass @xmath24 @xcite",
    ", we find .",
    "however , for large enough planetesimals we have @xmath25 . taking this into account results in a slightly higher upper limit of @xmath26 for @xmath14 . for simplicity and given the order of magnitude nature of this calculation , we ignore this complication . ]",
    "that @xmath27 . a lower limit to the planetesimal size",
    "is given by the velocity dispersion for which the disk becomes locally unstable to gravitational collapse .",
    "this velocity is @xmath28 at @xmath22 , corresponding to a minimum size for planetesimals of @xmath29 .",
    "therefore semi - collisional or collisional accretion applies as long as @xmath30 .",
    "a fragmentation cascade produced by destructive planetesimal collisions leads to the formation of ever smaller planetesimals @xcite .",
    "in fact , gravitational instabilities in the disk may be responsible for the lower limit on the planetesimal size , in which case @xmath31 cm .",
    "possible gaseous remnants of the solar nebula may lower the velocity dispersion preventing fragmentation down to the stability limit . though this is an uncertainty during protoplanet formation it is unlikely that significant amounts of gas prevailed after giant impacts .",
    "further , the low bulk density ( @xmath32 ) of comets @xcite seems to suggest gentle accretion of small bodies and therefore supports the idea of semi - collisional or collisional accretion .",
    "we assume that the orbits of the planetesimals and the protoplanets are circular and co - planar .",
    "the interaction between the planetesimals and the protoplanet can be described by hill s equations @xcite . in our",
    "coordinates the position of the planetesimal is given with respect to the protoplanet .",
    "the @xmath33-axis points radially outwards and the @xmath34-axis in the prograde direction .",
    "the equations of motion are given by @xmath35 @xmath36 we solve these equations numerically and sum the specific angular momentum of all planetesimals that pass within some effective accretion radius @xmath37 . in collisionless accretion",
    "the protoplanet accretes at its actual radius so that @xmath38 ; in semi - collisional or collisional accretion an accretion disk forms and the protoplanet effectively accretes at its gravitational radius such that @xmath39 .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows that protoplanets acquire a retrograde spin for @xmath40 and a prograde rotation for @xmath39 .",
    "the prograde rotation for @xmath41 can be understood by considering the angular momentum supplied by planetesimals solely due to the keplerian shear of the disk . in this case",
    "the specific angular momentum acquired by the protoplanet is @xmath42 in the prograde sense @xcite .",
    "the actual angular momentum delivered to the planet is given by figure [ fig1 ] for collisionless accretion only . in the semi - collisional and collisional cases ,",
    "the disk must lose angular momentum before it can be accreted by the protoplanet .",
    "the accretion of such a disk results in the formation of protoplanets spinning in the prograde sense with the maximal spin rate allowed before centrifugal forces break them apart .",
    "the final stage of terrestrial planet formation consists of collision and accretion events among the protoplanets .",
    "these giant impacts deliver spin angular momentum to the final planet . provided that the random velocities of the protoplanets are sufficiently large",
    ", one can neglect the shear imposed by the differential rotation of the disk , so there is no preferred direction for giant impacts to occur .",
    "giant impacts therefore deliver angular momentum in a random walk like fashion . @xcite and",
    "@xcite calculated the magnitude of the random component of the spin angular momentum due to a single giant impact and compared it with the observations . here",
    "we determine the random and systematic spin angular momentum delivered to the final planet by @xmath43 giant impacts using the following toy model .",
    "we start with @xmath44 identical protoplanets all of mass @xmath3 and radius @xmath8 which are sequentially accreted one by one .",
    "after @xmath43 such accretion events , we are left with a final planet of mass @xmath45 and radius @xmath46 .",
    "we assume throughout that protoplanets are spherical with constant density @xmath47 .      in the limit that the protoplanets velocity dispersion is small compared to their impact velocity and assuming that protoplanets have no spin , the maximum angular momentum delivered by one impact is @xmath48 where @xmath49 is the mass and @xmath50 the radius of the target .",
    "the root mean square ( rms ) angular momentum in the direction perpendicular to the plane of the solar system ( @xmath51-direction ) contributed by a single impact can be obtained by averaging over all possible impact parameters and is given by @xmath52 .",
    "adding the contributions of each impact in quadrature , with @xmath53 and @xmath54 for @xmath55 , the final rms angular momentum in the @xmath51-direction after @xmath56 impacts is @xmath57 where @xmath58 the precise number of giant impacts during the late stage of planet formation is uncertain .",
    "however , the final `` isolation '' mass for the minimum mass solar nebula at @xmath22 is about @xmath59 @xcite .",
    "this suggests that about @xmath60 giant impacts have occurred in order to form an earth at @xmath22 . for @xmath61 , equation [ e22 ]",
    "predicts a spin period of @xmath62 for the earth .",
    "n - body simulations find a somewhat shorter spin period of @xmath63 for bodies more massive than @xmath64 @xcite .",
    "this rapid rotation originates from unphysical mergers between protoplanets encountering each other at more than the escape velocity .",
    "as expected , n - body simulations also show that final obliquities due to giant impacts with no initial spin are randomly distributed @xcite .",
    "the final spin of a terrestrial planet after giant impacts is no longer random but contains a systematic component if each protoplanet possess a systematic spin due to semi - collisional planetesimal accretion .",
    "the systematic component of the angular momentum delivered by @xmath43 impacts of maximally spinning protoplanets with prograde rotation is @xmath65      comparing the random @xmath51-component of the angular momentum ( equation [ e22 ] ) to the systematic one ( equation [ e8 ] ) , we find that they are similar in magnitude with the random component up to twice the systematic one for @xmath66 .",
    "the final distribution for the @xmath51-component of the angular momentum is obtained by combining the random and the ordered contributions .",
    "it is normally distributed with its mean given by equation [ e8 ] and its standard deviation given by equation [ e22 ] . since the mean is positive , corresponding to prograde rotation , we expect more prograde than retrograde spins in a given planetary system .",
    "we find about 70% of all planets to be rotating in the prograde sense and only 30% in a retrograde manner for @xmath67 giant impacts .",
    "the following uncertainties could affect our estimates for prograde and retrograde rotation .",
    "we have assumed that the velocity dispersion of the protoplanets is small compared to the impact velocity",
    ". however , the velocity dispersion might be as large as the escape velocity from the protoplanet , in which case the random component of the angular momentum could increase up to @xmath68 .",
    "a higher fraction of planets with retrograde rotation would be produced if the mutual accretion of protoplanets were pairwise , such that all giant impacts were between equal - sized bodies , rather than one by one .",
    "furthermore , the majority of the mass accreted is likely due to collisions close to head on , which deliver a smaller random component of angular momentum than grazing ones @xcite . on the other hand",
    ", grazing collisions could deliver spin angular momentum and little mass , allowing easily twice the naive number of giant impacts .",
    "these uncertainties could be addressed using hydrodynamic simulations .",
    "the stirring force protoplanets exert on each other can be balanced by the force due to dynamical friction caused by the planetesimals as long as @xmath69 , ensuring small random velocities of the protoplanets . however , as the protoplanets accrete more planetesimals , their surface density increases and dynamical friction becomes less and less effective until it is no longer able to balance the mutual stirring of the protoplanets .",
    "orbit crossing and giant impacts set in when @xmath70 @xcite .",
    "planetesimal accretion continues and additional new planetesimals are produced as byproducts of giant impacts .",
    "the exact amount of smaller particles produced in a giant impact depends on the mass ratio of the two colliding protoplanets , their relative velocity and impact angle .",
    "for example , for collisions between like - sized protoplanets with an impact velocity of twice their escape velocity and an impact angle of @xmath71 ( where @xmath72 corresponds to a head - on collision ) about 10% of the total mass of the system escapes as smaller particles @xcite . due to the production of new planetesimals in giant impacts and the fact that giant impacts set in when @xmath73 , large amounts of planetesimals are expected to still be present after the culmination of giant impacts .",
    "this is also required to relax the high eccentricities of planets expected after giant impacts @xcite .",
    "n - body simulations predict eccentricities of @xmath74 for terrestrial planets after giant impacts @xcite .",
    "the eccentricity damping timescale @xmath75 due to dynamical friction caused by left - over planetesimals is given by @xmath76 this timescale should be shorter than the time required for the remaining planetesimals to be accreted onto the terrestial planets : @xmath77 this yields @xmath78 therefore , more than 7% of the mass should still reside in planetesimals in order to damp the planets eccentricities .",
    "the eventual accretion of the remaining planetesimals delivers additional angular momentum to the planet . for sufficiently small planetesimals , this accretion would again be in the semi - collisional or collisional regime and hence deliver additional prograde angular momentum to the planet",
    ". the accretion of about 10% @xmath79 in semi - collisional manner would be sufficient to deliver an angular momentum equivalent to that of the earth - moon system . for mars",
    "less than 3% of its mass would need to be accreted semi - collisionally to supply its current angular momentum , assuming that it had no previous spin .",
    "these small percentages indicate that semi - collisional or collisional accretion of only a small fraction of the planet s mass after giant impacts is sufficient to substantially alter planetary spins leading again to favoritism of prograde rotation .",
    "formation of gaps in the planetesimal disk after giant impacts may complicate this picture .",
    "we have shown here , that planetesimal accretion might be in the semi - collisional or collisional regime leading to the formation of a prograde accretion disk around the protoplanet .",
    "such a disk gives rise to a maximally - spinning protoplanet with prograde rotation .",
    "the final spin of terrestrial planets is therefore no longer random but is biased toward prograde rotation .",
    "the dominance of prograde rotation might be increased further by the accretion of leftover planetesimals in the post - giant impact phase , provided that semi - collisional or collisional accretion still applies .",
    "comparing our results with the spin properties of the terrestrial planets is somewhat difficult since the spins of mercury and venus have evolved considerably since their formation @xcite , leaving only earth and mars whose spins have evolved to a much lesser degree .",
    "earth and mars both display prograde rotation with small obliquities , which is consistent with semi - collisional or collisional accretion .",
    "however , no firm conclusions can be drawn from such a small data set and we can not rule out that the low obliquities of earth and mars are coincidental .",
    "terrestrial planet formation in the asteroid belt was interrupted when growing planets became massive enough to gravitationally perturb the local population , causing bodies to collide with increased energy , ending accretion and commencing fragmentation .",
    "evidence from vesta s crust ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and recent models of collisional evolution in the astroid belt @xcite suggest that the largest asteroids have survived un - shattered and that they experienced very little collisional evolution .",
    "their current spin properties may therefore still contain some information about their primordial spin state and hence clues about the formation of protoplanets @xcite .",
    "the two most massive asteroids , ceres and vesta , both exercise prograde rotation with periods of 9.1 and 5.3 hours respectively .",
    "ceres spin axis has a @xmath80 inclination with respect to the normal of the ecliptic @xcite and vesta s spin axis inclination to the normal of the ecliptic is @xmath81 @xcite .",
    "the spin properties of ceres and vesta might therefore be indicative of semi - collisional or collisional accretion in the asteroid belt .",
    "kuiper belt objects ( kbos ) grew mainly by planetesimal accretion .",
    "the formation time for pluto - sized kbos is comparable to the time required for a collisional cascade to set in , grinding initially kilometer - sized planetesimals to meters in size . if indeed a collisional cascade started by the time the largest kbos formed",
    ", semi - collisional accretion could have dominated their formation .",
    "this may explain the intriguingly rapid spin of @xmath82 , whose rotation period is only @xmath62 @xcite . however , the retrograde rotations of pluto and @xmath83 @xcite ( assuming that it spins in the same direction as it is orbited by its largest satellite ) conflict with this and tentatively suggest that semi - collisional accretion did not dominate their formation .          , m.  f. , belton , m.  j.  s. , delamere , w.  a. , kissel , j. , klaasen , k.  p. , mcfadden , l.  a. , meech , k.  j. , melosh , h.  j. , schultz , p.  h. , sunshine , j.  m. , thomas , p.  c. , veverka , j. , yeomans , d.  k. , baca , m.  w. , busko , i. , crockett , c.  j. , collins , s.  m. , desnoyer , m. , eberhardy , c.  a. , ernst , c.  m. , farnham , t.  l. , feaga , l. , groussin , o. , hampton , d. , ipatov , s.  i. , li , j .- y . , lindler , d. , lisse , c.  m. , mastrodemos , n. , owen , w.  m. , richardson , j.  e. , wellnitz , d.  d. , & white , r.  l. 2005 , science , 310 , 258      , m.  e. , bouchez , a.  h. , rabinowitz , d. , sari , r. , trujillo , c.  a. , van dam , m. , campbell , r. , chin , j. , hartman , s. , johansson , e. , lafon , r. , le mignant , d. , stomski , p. , summers , d. , & wizinowich , p. 2005",
    ", , 632 , l45"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> planetesimal accretion during planet formation is usually treated as collisionless . such accretion from a uniform and </S>",
    "<S> dynamically cold disk predicts protoplanets with slow retrograde rotation . </S>",
    "<S> however , if the building blocks of protoplanets , planetesimals , are small , of order of a meter in size , then they are likely to collide within the protoplanet s sphere of gravitational influence , creating a prograde accretion disk around the protoplanet . </S>",
    "<S> the accretion of such a disk results in the formation of protoplanets spinning in the prograde sense with the maximal spin rate allowed before centrifugal forces break them apart . as a result of semi - collisional accretion , </S>",
    "<S> the final spin of a planet after giant impacts is not completely random but is biased toward prograde rotation . </S>",
    "<S> the eventual accretion of the remaining planetesimals in the post giant - impact phase might again be in the semi - collisional regime and delivers a significant amount of additional prograde angular momentum to the terrestrial planets . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that in our solar system , semi - collisional accretion gave rise to the preference for prograde rotation observed in the terrestrial planets and perhaps the largest asteroids . </S>"
  ]
}