{
  "article_text": [
    "in early galaxy redshift surveys ( eg .",
    "@xcite ) , some of the most striking artefacts observed were the so - called ` fingers of god ' , ridges in the galaxy distribution pointing directly at the observer .",
    "what had been observed was the first evidence of the redshift - space distortion of galaxy clustering .",
    "if galaxy motions were perfectly described by pure hubble flow , then a galaxy s redshift would be an accurate indicator of its distance and the clustering pattern observed in galaxy redshift surveys would be statistically isotropic .",
    "the observed anisotropic clustering pattern is generated by galaxy peculiar velocities which perturb galaxy redshifts and hence their inferred distances . on small scales ,",
    "the non - linear velocities of virialized groups and clusters create the ` fingers of god ' by stretching out these structures along the line of sight . on large scales the clustering pattern",
    "is predicted ( as suggested by sargent & turner ) to be compressed along the line of sight by coherent infall onto galaxy clusters and super - clusters and outflow from voids and other underdense regions .",
    "thus the anisotropy of galaxy clustering encodes information about the galaxy velocity field and hence the underlying mass density field that gave rise to it",
    ". measurements of redshift - space distortions can therefore be used to place constraints on the density parameter , @xmath8 , and the bias parameter , @xmath7 , which relates the galaxy distribution to the mass distribution .",
    "interesting constraints on the combination @xmath9 have been obtained by analysis of optical redshift surveys ( @xcite ) and iras surveys ( eg . @xcite and more recent papers such as @xcite ) .",
    "however , the statistical errors remain large and no consensus on the value of @xmath4 has been reached ( for a review see @xcite ) .",
    "the next generation of large surveys , including the 2-degree - field ( 2df , @xcite ) and sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , @xcite ) , will enable redshift - space distortions to be measured with unprecedented accuracy .",
    "these surveys should allow @xmath4 to be measured to an accuracy of a few per cent , and possibly for @xmath8 and @xmath7 to be separately constrained . to achieve this accuracy and avoid systematic errors",
    "it is important that the theoretical modelling of redshift - space distortions be accurate .",
    "this is a non - trivial requirement , as these surveys will provide their most precise measurements of the distortions on scales of @xmath10@xmath11 , where the predictions of pure linear theory are not expected to hold .    in this paper",
    "we use a set of high - resolution simulations which accurately follow the evolution of clustering over the range of scales which will be probed by the next - generation surveys . rather than constructing mock galaxy catalogues we instead use the full simulations to quantify the redshift - space distortions as accurately as possible , and through this assess the accuracy of the linear theory model and two proposed extensions to it .",
    "in we define our notation convention and introduce the quadrupole statistic which we use to assess the level of redshift - space distortion .",
    "details the parameters of our set of simulations , and explains the methods we employ to construct biased galaxy samples . the linear theory prediction and the two other models",
    "are described in . in",
    "we compare the analytic models with measurements of the redshift - space distortions in the simulations .",
    "we discuss results in .",
    "our method of analysis uses the power spectrum , @xmath12 , the fourier transform of the correlation function , @xmath13 where we use the fourier convention that the wavenumber , @xmath14 , is the angular frequency corresponding to wavelength @xmath15 , ie .",
    "the correlation function is given by @xmath17 where @xmath18 is the fractional overdensity , @xmath19 the power spectrum has been used by many authors to study the growth of gravitational clustering in simulations , and to quantify the clustering observed in redshift surveys ( for recent examples , see @xcite ) .    when galaxy distances are measured in redshift space , their peculiar velocities ( ie .",
    "relative to the pure hubble flow ) distort the pattern of galaxy clustering by displacing galaxy positions along the line of sight .",
    "thus a galaxy whose true position is @xmath20 appears in redshift - space at the position @xmath21 where the line - of - sight peculiar velocity @xmath22 . here",
    "we have adopted units in which the hubble constant has unit value , we measure distance in units of @xmath23 , where @xmath24 , and velocities in units of @xmath25 .    in redshift space",
    "this displacement in a preferred direction causes the observed power spectrum to be anisotropic , with different values for wave - vectors along the line of sight to those perpendicular to it .",
    "thus , the redshift - space power spectrum can be thought of as a function of @xmath26 and @xmath27 , the cosine of the angle between wave - vector @xmath28 and the line of sight , @xmath29 in what follows we adopt the convention that , by @xmath12 or @xmath2 we refer to the redshift - space power spectrum , since this quantity depends on both the magnitude and direction of @xmath28 , whereas @xmath30 represents the real space power spectrum , depending only on the scalar @xmath14 .",
    "the redshift - space distortions can be conveniently quantified by a simple statistic .",
    "the anisotropy in @xmath12 is symmetric in @xmath27 , ie .",
    "@xmath31 , so the distortion depends only on even powers of @xmath27 . to measure the extent of deformation from isotropy , we decompose the power spectrum into multipole moments using the legendre polynomials , @xmath32 .",
    "thus , @xmath33 where the sum is over even values of @xmath34 . from the orthogonality relation for legendre polynomials , the multipole moments @xmath35 can be found by evaluating @xmath36 we find that estimates of @xmath37 rapidly become noisy for multipoles with @xmath38 , so we choose to use as the key statistic for our analysis the quadrupole to monopole ratio , @xmath39 .",
    "we have chosen to carry out all our analysis in @xmath14-space using power spectrum multipoles @xmath35 .",
    "however , our results can readily be translated into predictions of the multipole moments of the correlation function , @xmath40 using the identities derived in appendix  b of cole , fisher & weinberg ( ) .",
    "= 8.0 cm    in order to study the effects of non - linear gravitational evolution on redshift space clustering we examine a selection of simulations with different values of the density parameter @xmath8 and the galaxy bias .",
    "the simulations we use are taken from a set of large volume simulations which have been produced in order to make mock redshift catalogues of the sloan digital sky survey ( @xcite ) and the anglo - australian 2-degree field survey ( @xcite ) , as will be described in @xcite .",
    "the full set of simulations consists of two series .",
    "the first is normalized to the amplitude of cmb fluctuations in the cobe - dmr data set ( @xcite ) and the second normalized to match present day observations of galaxy clusters and large scale structure .",
    "both series cover a range in @xmath8 and include both open models ( with @xmath41 ) , and flat models ( @xmath42 , where @xmath43 is the cosmological constant in units of @xmath44 ) .",
    "the main cause of redshift - space distortion on small scales is the random velocities of galaxies in groups and clusters . since our aim is to study deviations from linear theory on scales of @xmath45@xmath46 this important non - linear effect most",
    "be included at a realistic level .",
    "therefore we have selected simulations from the series that are normalized to produce approximately the observed abundance of rich galaxy clusters .",
    "this set of simulations have the rms mass fluctuation in spheres of radius @xmath47 set to @xmath48 ( @xcite ) .",
    "the shape of the initial power spectrum is the same in each simulation and is given by the bardeen et al .",
    "( ) formula for the cold dark matter spectrum , @xmath49 ^ 2}{[1 + 3.89q+(16.1q)^2+(5.46q)^3+(6.71q)^4]^{1/2 } }",
    ". \\label{eqn : p0}\\ ] ] here @xmath50 and we set @xmath51 , as suggested by observations of large scale structure ( eg .",
    "@xcite ) . to illustrate our results we focus mainly on two models , the @xmath52 model and a low density @xmath53 , @xmath54 model .    the initial particle positions and velocities were set by using the zeldovich ( ) approximation to perturb particles from an almost uniform `` glass '' distribution .",
    "this `` glass '' distribution was produced using the technique described by white ( ) , and baugh , gaztaaga & efstathiou ( ) . the simulations were evolved using the ap@xmath55 m code of couchman ( ) using @xmath56 particles in a periodic cube of side @xmath57 ( comoving distance ) .",
    "the softening parameter of ap@xmath55 m s triangular - shaped cloud force law was set to @xmath58 , @xmath59 per cent of the grid spacing .",
    "this choice corresponds approximately to a gravitational softening length @xmath60 for a plummer force law .",
    "further details and some analysis of these simulations can be found in eke , cole & frenk ( ) and in cole et al . .",
    "results from recent galaxy surveys suggest that galaxies do not perfectly trace the mass distribution but rather pick out the highly non - linear regions .",
    "for instance , peacock & dodds ( ) show there are in fact different bias factors for differently selected galaxy samples , eg .",
    "iras galaxies and radio galaxies .",
    "many of these recent investigations favour a value of @xmath61 , so for a flat universe with zero cosmological constant a significant amount of biasing is needed to match observations . to this end",
    "we employ three different methods of biasing our @xmath62 simulation , in order to find out how robust our parameter estimation techniques are to the precise bias prescription .    in each method",
    "we build up a ` probability field ' on a grid , based on the density field smoothed on a particular scale . we then randomly sample the particles using the values of the probability field at their nearest grid points as their poisson mean probability of being selected as galaxies .",
    "the first two methods we employ are lagrangian , in the sense that the selection probability is based on the _ initial _ density field .",
    "the third is an eulerian one , where the galaxy distribution is ` painted on ' depending on the final , evolved density field . in each case",
    "the bias is chosen to obtain a @xmath63 , the variance in galaxy counts in spheres of radius @xmath47 , consistent with the results of maddox , efstathiou & sutherland ( ) , who find @xmath64 for the apm galaxy survey .",
    "thus , the bias factor , defined as @xmath65 , has value @xmath66 .",
    "all our methods are local schemes based on the value of the overdensity at a given point .",
    "the methods are expected to produce a constant bias on large scales .",
    "1 .   high peaks biasing . for this method",
    "we smooth the initial density field by applying a sharp cut - off in the power at a scale @xmath67 , set to be , approximately , the shortest resolvable wavelength in the box , @xmath68 .",
    "we then divide by the resulting mass variance , @xmath69 , to obtain a new variable , @xmath70 .",
    "we use the results of bardeen et al .",
    "( ) to calculate the mean number of peaks above a certain threshold , @xmath71 , for a random field , gaussian - smoothed on a scale @xmath72 , ie .",
    "the number of galaxy - scale peaks expected as a function of @xmath73 ( cf .",
    "the value of the threshold is adjusted until the required level of bias is obtained , from @xmath74 .",
    "we find that @xmath75 gives the correct normalization .",
    "2 .   for this method",
    "we obtain @xmath76 by smoothing the initial density with a gaussian of scale @xmath77 .",
    "our biasing probability field is then a continuous function of @xmath73 and two adjustable parameters , @xmath78 and @xmath4 , given by @xmath79 where the normalization constant , @xmath80 , is determined by the constraint @xmath81 in the limit of small ( @xmath82 ) large - scale perturbations in the initial density field , it can be shown that the bias on large scales is given by @xmath83 to fix @xmath78 and @xmath4 we demand that the rms galaxy density fluctuations in two different sized cubic cells ( @xmath84 and @xmath85 ) match those predicted by assuming a power spectrum shape from the result for the apm survey found by baugh & gaztaaga ( ) .",
    "3 .   in this model",
    "the final density field is smoothed on a scale @xmath86 .",
    "the selection probability field has a value 0 or 1 according to whether the overdensity is below or above a threshold , @xmath87 .",
    "we find that @xmath88 provides the required bias .",
    "the particle distribution resulting from this scheme is expected to contain large voids since the sharp cut - off at the threshold is extremely effective at evacuating underdense regions ( @xcite ) .",
    "it is hoped that the three methods described here span a broad range of plausible biasing prescriptions that might occur in the real universe , and that , if we can develop techniques that are unaffected by which of these schemes is chosen , these techniques will be insensitive to the way in which bias comes about .",
    "further details about biasing schemes will follow in cole et al . .",
    "the density of the biased catalogues is chosen to be one galaxy per @xmath89 , roughly four times @xmath90 , the observed number density of @xmath91 galaxies ( eg .",
    "@xcite;@xcite ) .",
    "this high sampling density has been adopted as we are interested in investigating systematic effects on the redshift - space distortions , and so we want to minimize the statistical uncertainties produced by sparse sampling .",
    "we attempt to model the redshift - space distortions in our simulations using a monte carlo implementation of the zeldovich approximation .",
    "our monte carlo realizations have the same @xmath56 particle grid and initial density field parameters as the corresponding simulations .",
    "exactly the same method is used to perturb the particles as that employed to get the initial displacements in the simulation , only with much larger perturbation amplitude corresponding to @xmath92 rather than the starting redshift of the simulation . for the simulations we populate all the modes in the @xmath56 @xmath14-space grid including those in the corners of the cube .",
    "however for these realizations of the za , we make our treatment consistent with the analytic calculation that we outline in , by smoothing the density field in the same way , ie . by truncating the power spectrum isotropically at @xmath93 .",
    "these realizations of the za can be biased using exactly the same prescriptions that we use for the simulations .",
    "the catalogues thus created are then subjected to the same multipole analysis as our simulations .",
    "we ensure that the distant observer approximation is satisfied by assigning redshift - space positions to galaxies based on their distance along the @xmath94-axis of the simulation .",
    "effectively the simulation box is placed at infinity and the line of sight aligned with the @xmath94-axis . to minimise the noise in our estimates we repeat the analysis with the simulation rotated to align the line of sight with the @xmath95- and then @xmath96-axes and average the results .",
    "the galaxies in the simulation are assigned to a @xmath97 grid using the cloud - in - cell ( cic ) weighting scheme ( @xcite ) .",
    "the density field thus produced then has the average galaxy density subtracted from it and is divided by this average density .",
    "the resultant grid is thus the fractional overdensity field , @xmath18 , and the grid is fast fourier transformed to get @xmath98 .",
    "the effect of the cic assignment is to doubly convolve the density field with the shape of a grid cell .",
    "thus to deconvolve we divide by the square of fourier transform of the cic window function .",
    "the power spectrum estimator is then @xmath99 .    for the biased galaxy simulations a constant equal to the inverse of the number density of galaxies in the catalogue",
    "is subtracted at this point to account for the shot noise introduced by the poisson sampling of the galaxies .",
    "this is not necessary in the unbiased cases as here we use all the particles rather than a poisson sample .",
    "we now divide @xmath14-space in spherical shells of width @xmath100 . for each shell",
    "we estimate the multipole moments of the power spectrum by approximating the integral of @xmath27 in by a discrete sum over modes .",
    "this method works perfectly well at high-@xmath14 , but for the first few shells where the sampling of @xmath14-space results in poor sampling in @xmath27 it leads to a small systematic error in @xmath101 .",
    "an alternative method of estimating @xmath102 and @xmath103 , which can readily be employed for low-@xmath14 , is to make a least squares fit to the @xmath27 dependence of @xmath2 using a basis of the legendre polynomials @xmath104,@xmath105 and @xmath106 .",
    "this second method produces a less noisy estimator but still suffers from a small systematic error due to the poor sampling in @xmath27 .",
    "we therefore apply a small ( @xmath84% for the lowest wavenumber ) , empirically derived correction to our first five bins in @xmath14 to compensate for this .",
    "the lowest @xmath14-mode probed using this method is @xmath107 , ie .",
    "when one wavelength fills the whole box . the highest is the nyquist frequency , @xmath108 , where @xmath109 is the number of cells along one side of the simulation box .",
    "we do not expect our treatment to work all the way up to the nyquist frequency , since the deconvolution correction can never recover all the information lost by assigning particles to a discrete grid .",
    "this effect can be seen in where the power spectrum turns up for the very highest @xmath14-values .",
    "for this reason we limit our analysis rather conservatively to modes with @xmath110 .",
    "= 16.0 cm    if it is assumed that the velocity field , @xmath111 , is generated via gravitational instability , then it can be related to the underlying mass density field . here",
    "we consider three analytic models for the relationship of the velocity field to the density field , which lead to quantitative descriptions of the redshift - space distortion of galaxy clustering .",
    "the first is base purely on linear theory . in the second",
    ", the effect of non - linear velocities in galaxy clusters is modelled by adding a random velocity dispersion to the velocity predicted by linear theory .",
    "the magnitude of this dispersion , @xmath112 , is not predicted by the model , but is expected to bear some relation to the typical thermal velocity of galaxies within groups and clusters .",
    "the third model is the zeldovich approximation ( za ) ( @xcite ) .",
    "this model provides a complete description of the evolved density and velocity fields , which is expected to be accurate in the quasi - linear regime where the overdensity is of order unity .",
    "thus this model has the potential to give an accurate physical description of redshift - space clustering .",
    "these three models are described in detail below and compared in . in each case",
    "we assume that the distant observer approximation is well satisfied and that we are dealing with volume limited galaxy samples .",
    "the effects of relaxing these assumptions are discussed in kaiser ( ) .      in the regime of linear theory kaiser ( ) showed that the redshift - space power spectrum is related to the real space power spectrum in a very simple way @xmath113 the function @xmath114 is the logarithmic derivative of the fluctuation growth rate ( see @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the bias factor , @xmath7 , is an assumed constant relating fluctuations in the galaxy density to those in the mass .",
    "applying for the @xmath115 and @xmath116 modes results in @xmath117 thus linear theory predicts a constant quadrupole - to - monopole ratio , @xmath118 , independent of scale .",
    "this model is shown by the dotted lines in .",
    "here we highlight some of the steps in this derivation so that we can compare its assumptions with those of two other proposed models . in linear theory",
    "the velocity and galaxy density fields are related by the first order continuity equation , @xmath119 considering the density field as a sum over fourier components , @xmath120 the resulting linear theory prediction for the velocity field is @xmath121 where we have assumed a linear bias between the galaxy and mass density perturbations , @xmath122 .",
    "this leads to the following expression for the line - of - sight velocity gradient , @xmath123 the results and are valid only so long as each of the four following constraints is satisfied , so that the corresponding form of non - linearity can be ignored ( cole et al . ) ;    1 .",
    "the velocity dispersion in virialized systems is sufficiently small that it can be ignored , i.e. @xmath124 2 .",
    "the linear relationship between velocity and overdensity is accurate .",
    "second order terms in the gradient of the line - of - sight velocity field can be ignored , i.e. @xmath125 4 .",
    "second order terms in the galaxy overdensity can be ignored , @xmath126    all these constraints will be satisfied on the very largest scales , but , depending on the present - day amplitude of galaxy clustering and on the values of @xmath8 and @xmath7 , we expect some or even all of them to be violated on scales of less than @xmath127 .      the velocity dispersion of galaxies in galaxy clusters is typically @xmath128 ( eg .",
    "white et al . ) . thus , from the the constraint that @xmath124",
    ", we would expect the linear theory result to apply only on scales where @xmath129 .",
    "since we are interested in clustering on scales from @xmath130 ( @xmath131 ) , an accurate model will have to take into account these non - linear velocities .    on small scales",
    "the redshift space correlation function has been found to be well modelled as a convolution of the real - space isotropic correlation function with an exponential probability distribution function for line - of - sight velocities ( @xcite ) .",
    "park ( ) point out that , since the convolution in @xmath132-space is equivalent to a multiplication in @xmath14-space , the power spectrum is multiplied by the square of the fourier transform of the velocity distribution function .",
    "peacock & dodds ( ) show that the effects of linear clustering and this model of small - scale velocity dispersion can be combined to give a redshift space power spectrum @xmath133 for this expression it is considerably harder to perform the integration over @xmath27 required in than for the linear theory case , but an analytic expression for @xmath101 can easily be obtained with the aid of mathematics packages such as maple .",
    "the rather lengthy formulae are given in cole et al .",
    "( ) section  2.1 .",
    "this model extends linear theory by relaxing the dispersion constraint listed in the previous section , but still implicitly assumes the other three .",
    "the model of the small - scale velocity dispersion is also simplistic in that it takes no account of the fact that the velocity dispersion is correlated with the density field , ie .",
    "the dispersion is higher in high density regions such as galaxy clusters .",
    "this means that the value of @xmath112 used in this model is only an _ effective _ velocity dispersion which depends on how galaxies populate the clusters , and thus on the bias parameter , @xmath7 .",
    "examples of this model are shown by the short dashed curves in fig .",
    "[ fig : q1 ] .",
    "the linear theory approach to modelling the growth of density perturbations is only valid if @xmath126 . the refinement to linear theory proposed by zeldovich ( ) was to formulate a lagrangian approach . here",
    "each particle is displaced from its original position along a straight line defined by the direction of the initial velocity field . in comoving co -",
    "ordinates @xmath20 , the final position , is related to @xmath134 , the initial position , by @xmath135    the zeldovich approximation ( za ) is expected to break down at the stage when shell - crossing occurs ( @xmath136 . this is because , under this model , the particles pass right through caustics as they continue to move in the direction of their original velocity .",
    "in contrast , in simulations non - linear effects cause the particles to behave as if they were ` sticky ' , and galaxies congregate in high density shells or walls .",
    "if the power spectrum is not truncated or filtered at high spatial frequencies , shell - crossing occurs on small scales , with the result that small - scale and some large - scale power is erased , and the degree of anisotropy is lower than expected .",
    "we choose to smooth the initial density field for the zeldovich realizations on small scales by applying a sharp cut - off to the power spectrum at @xmath137 , which corresponds to the nyquist frequency of the grid used in the simulations .",
    "fisher & nusser ( , henceforth fn96 ) and taylor & hamilton ( ) obtained an analytic result for the redshift - space distortion produced with the za . following their work we have developed an integration technique using an euler method ( @xcite ) to deal with diverging oscillations of the integrand . over the range of @xmath14 we are interested in",
    ", the method is quite stable , and avoids the complexity described in the appendix of taylor & hamilton ( ) .",
    "however , our technique breaks down at a scale @xmath138 . at this point oscillations in the radial integrand become too rapid and of too great an amplitude for the method to cope .",
    "this analytic calculation of the quadrupole ratio @xmath101 is compared with the results of averaging many monte carlo realizations of the za in fig .",
    "[ fig : q1 ] .",
    "the close agreement of the two methods is very reassuring .",
    "it not only demonstrates the accuracy of our numerical integration technique , but also our implementation of realizations of the za and the entire procedure of estimating @xmath101 from particle distributions .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : q1 ] the @xmath118 ratio of the @xmath53 model reaches a minimum at @xmath139 and then slowly increases .",
    "the ratio behaves in a similar manner for @xmath62 , but with a minimum at @xmath140 , which lies off the right - hand side of fig .",
    "[ fig : q1 ] .",
    "we attribute this behaviour to the breakdown of the za at scales on which substantial shell crossing has occurred .",
    "this occurs on larger scales in the @xmath53 model as it has the larger amplitude of density fluctuations with @xmath141 compared with @xmath142 in the @xmath62 model . in reality one",
    "expects the ratio @xmath101 to become increasingly negative on small scales due to the fingers - of - god produced by the random velocities of galaxies in virialized groups and clusters .    in our implementation of the za",
    "we have applied very little smoothing of the initial density field .",
    "we have simply truncated the input power spectrum at the nyquist frequency of our particle grid used in the monte carlo realizations described in to facilitate inter - comparison .",
    "however , melott , pellman & shandarin ( ) have shown that , at least for some statistics , the correspondence between the za and n - body simulations can be improved by more severe smoothing of the initial density field .",
    "they define a non - linear wavenumber @xmath143 by @xmath144 and then smooth the initial density field with a gaussian window , @xmath145 , with @xmath146 .",
    "they find that the best choice of the parameter @xmath147 depends only weakly on the shape of the power spectrum and is @xmath148 . when comparing to the simulations in we investigate whether this procedure improves the redshift space predictions of the za .",
    "the za has several advantages over pure linear theory .",
    "firstly , equation is modified such that the velocity @xmath111 is given in terms of the density field at the initial position @xmath134 , ie .",
    "@xmath20 is replaced by @xmath134 in , and on the right - hand - side of .",
    "this dynamical relation remains quite accurate until shell crossing occurs , whereas the linear theory relation is only accurate for @xmath126 .",
    "in contrast to the linear theory derivation , no further assumptions regarding either the amplitude of the velocity gradient nor the density fluctuations are made in deriving the resulting power spectrum .",
    "thus in this respect it is able to deal with both gradient and contrast non - linearity . for modelling redshift - space distortions",
    "the main shortcoming of the za is that it does not model the random velocities produced in non - linear relaxed structures ",
    "instead it produces its own velocity dispersion on small scales due to the shell crossing .",
    "thus in this respect it does not deal with the dispersion non - linearity .",
    "also in the form described above it does not explicitly deal with the effects of biasing .",
    "fisher & nusser ( ) claim that to a good approximation bias can be modelled by simply replacing @xmath149 with @xmath150  we investigate this in .      our objective is to illustrate the systematic differences between the results and the models rather than to propose a methodology to estimate model parameters from real estimates of the redshift - space distortion . in order to analyze the data from our simulations on quasi - linear scales",
    ", we will perform @xmath151 fits for the dispersion and za models to the points and restrict the range of @xmath14 to the regime over which each model can reasonably match the data .",
    "the dispersion model provides a functional form for the shape of the quadrupole estimator , but says nothing about the clustering itself .",
    "thus , in fitting to the data , no assumptions need be made about the shape or amplitude of the underlying power spectrum , we simply do a @xmath151 minimization using @xmath4 and @xmath112 as fitting parameters .",
    "in contrast , the za is much more physically motivated in that it attempts to model both the clustering and the associated velocity field from first principles .",
    "we first attempt to utilize a simple fitting formula for the shape of @xmath101 presented in fn96 .",
    "this formula depends on @xmath4 and the zero - crossing of the quadrupole , @xmath143 .",
    "we find that using this approximation introduces a significant offset between the best - fit and true values of @xmath4 .",
    "we therefore opt to evaluate the full expression derived by fn96 for the expected quadrupole to monopole ratio at each stage in making the minimum-@xmath151 fit .",
    "this expression gives the distortion as a function of @xmath4 and the power spectrum shape and normalization ( @xmath152 and @xmath153 ) .",
    "here we simply adopt the values of @xmath152 and @xmath153 used in the simulations and use @xmath4 as the single free parameter in the model . for real observations",
    "it is hoped that one could simultaneously fit for these parameters using estimates of the redshift - space power spectrum , @xmath103 .",
    "= 16.0 cm    = 16.0 cm    = 16.0 cm    = 16.0 cm      in we compare the model predictions for the quadrupole ratio , @xmath101 , with the results of two unbiased simulations .",
    "the points with error bars show the results .",
    "the model that produces the lower quadrupole ratios has @xmath53 , @xmath54 and @xmath141 , and that with the stronger quadrupole signal has @xmath52 and @xmath154 .",
    "the error bars placed on the results are indicative of the statistical error we expect on an estimate of the quadrupole ratio , from a single realization , and are obtained by taking the standard deviation of forty monte carlo realizations of the za .",
    "it is clear that , apart from the first few points with @xmath155 , the deviation from the constant ratio predicted by linear theory is large .",
    "the solid lines in are each for one za realization starting from the same initial density field as the corresponding simulation .",
    "this model reproduces the results extremely accurately at low-@xmath14 . for the @xmath53 case",
    "the za and results match well up to @xmath156 which is beyond the scale at which @xmath101 becomes negative .",
    "this result is in complete agreement with the findings of fn96 .",
    "the only results they studied were for a similarly normalized @xmath53,@xmath54 model . in the case of @xmath52",
    "we find much less impressive agreement between the za and simulations .",
    "the results begin to diverge at @xmath157 and differ very significantly at @xmath158 , where @xmath159 for the simulation .    in",
    "we show another comparison between these and za realizations . here",
    "we show the ratio of estimates of their final power spectra to the initial power spectra evolved to @xmath92 assuming linear theory .",
    "we see that in the simulations the non - linear growth of structure leads to an increase in power on small scales .",
    "this is strongest for @xmath53 which has the highest @xmath153 and is therefore the most non - linear .",
    "in contrast the behaviour of the za simulations is the exact opposite ",
    "shell crossing erases power on small scales . in this respect",
    "the agreement between za and is particularly poor for the @xmath53 model . even at mildly non - linear scales",
    "this discrepancy is quite severe , which suggests to us that the success of the za at modelling the ratio @xmath101 should be treated with skepticism .",
    "the possibility of improving the correspondence with the results by smoothing the initial density field before applying the za , as in the truncated za of melott et al .",
    "( ) , is investigated in . the introduction of additional smoothing worsens the agreement between the results and those of the za . in particular for the degree of smoothing advocated by melott et al .",
    ", corresponding to @xmath160 , the agreement between and za is very poor .",
    "presumably the smoothing being applied is washing out the distortions we are trying to measure .",
    "however , we find that in real space a mild amount of smoothing can produce a power spectrum that is slightly closer to the result , though this is a rather small effect .",
    "the za and dispersion model fits are shown by the smooth long and short dashed curves in .",
    "the corresponding best fit model parameters and confidence intervals are shown in and . here",
    "the horizontal lines bracket the 68 per cent and 99.7 per cent ( 1- and 3-@xmath161 ) confidence intervals of @xmath4 for the za fit .",
    "the ellipses show the corresponding confidence intervals for the two - parameter dispersion model . both za fits give a best - fit @xmath4 that is within @xmath162 of the theoretical value , so there seems to be no appreciable systematic error in our estimate .",
    "however , this result is achieved by limiting the range of the fit to the first ten bins in @xmath14-space , ie .",
    "@xmath163 , in both models . at smaller scales than this , particularly in the @xmath52 model , the fits can be seen to strongly overestimate the redshift - space distortion . thus if a fit were made to data covering a wider range of scales ,",
    "@xmath4 would be severely underestimated .",
    "in contrast , the dispersion model fits remain in reasonable agreement with the data up to much larger @xmath14 .",
    "we fit our data up to the thirtieth data bin , corresponding to a length scale of @xmath164 . for @xmath53",
    ", the dispersion model analysis seems to be offset towards a low estimate of @xmath4 , but this effect is fairly small given the size of the error contours .",
    "the fit itself is a very good over the whole range of @xmath14 in question .",
    "however , for @xmath52 , @xmath4 is systematically underestimated by more than 10 per cent at a high level of significance .",
    "this offset can be understood by reference to the models shown in . in comparison to the za , which is an accurate fit at low-@xmath14 , the dispersion model curve changes slope too rapidly and is thus too shallow at low-@xmath14 .",
    "thus , when data at low-@xmath14 are used to constrain the fit , the value of @xmath4 is underestimated .",
    "we found this behaviour to be the same for a variant of the dispersion model in which the small scale random velocity is assumed to be gaussian rather than exponentially distributed .",
    "this alternative gaussian dispersion model produces a worse fit overall , and a more biased estimate of @xmath4 .",
    "the same effect is also expected to introduce an offset in the @xmath165 simulation , but it is rather smaller for this case and so is not easily detected .    as shown in , we have calculated the 1-dimensional rms peculiar velocity of particles in each simulation , @xmath166 , in an attempt to look for a physical significance of the @xmath112 value found in the dispersion model fit .",
    "it is clear from these measurements that there is no simple relationship between the two quantities over the range covered by our simulations .",
    "= 16.0 cm    in we show the model predictions for the quadrupole ratio , @xmath101 , for a biased model with @xmath62 .",
    "the heavy curves show the results of selecting biased galaxy catalogues by the three methods described in .",
    "the differences between the models at large scales are purely statistical , since different galaxies have been selected in the different samples . at high @xmath14",
    "the two lagrangian methods agree well , but the eulerian one systematically shows less distortion .",
    "this is to be expected as this method populates evenly all regions with density higher than the threshold , rather than giving extra weight to the areas with higher density ( and thus velocity dispersion ) , as the other two models do .",
    "the long dashed curve shows the prediction for the analytic za where , as suggested by fn96 , the model adopted assumes that galaxies are unbiased , @xmath167 , but with @xmath168 to match the value of @xmath169 .",
    "this curve should be compared with the results from a biased catalogue constructed from a realization of the za which is shown by the thin solid curve .",
    "clearly these two curves do not agree .",
    "thus in the za , bias can not be taken account of by merely modifying the value of @xmath149 as suggested by fn96 .",
    "this is perhaps to be expected as bias will not only boost the galaxy density fluctuations with respect to the underlying mass distribution , but will also preferentially place galaxies in dense structures where random velocities produced by virialized structures are largest . the small scale velocity field produced by shell crossing in the za",
    "is not a good model of the random velocities produced in non - linear regions .",
    "it is for this reason that the biased za realization is a poor fit to the results .",
    "it diverges from the result more rapidly than the corresponding model for the unbiased @xmath52 simulation .",
    "the short dashed curve is a fit of the dispersion model to the peaks biased galaxy catalogue .",
    "this model , with an exponential velocity distribution , determines @xmath4 very accurately and is a good fit to the data over this range of scale .",
    "the fitted velocity dispersion is @xmath170 , @xmath171 higher than the unbiased version of the same simulation , which illustrates how bias preferentially places galaxies in environments with higher thermal velocities .",
    "we have used a set of high resolution simulations to investigate the accuracy of two models of the redshift - space distortion of galaxy clustering on scales of @xmath45@xmath172 .",
    "we conclude that neither the zeldovich approximation ( @xcite ) nor the linear theory plus random velocity dispersion model ( @xcite ) provide an accurate description of redshift - space clustering . in general both models",
    "could lead to significant systematic errors in the estimation of @xmath173 when applied to the high precision data that will be available from the large 2df and sdss galaxy redshift surveys .",
    "the zeldovich approximation provides a good fit in the unbiased cases on the very largest scales that we have investigated .",
    "however , only for the low @xmath8 model that we examined does this model remain accurate over the full range of scales for which we measure a positive quadrupole distortion ( @xmath174 ) . in the case of biased galaxy catalogues",
    "the za is a very poor description of redshift clustering apart from on the very largest scales . smoothing the initial density field prior to applying the za , as in the truncated za ( @xcite ) , was found to further worsen the agreement with the results of redshift - space distortions . in general , then",
    ", we would only advocate using the za for analysis of unbiased universes on scales down to @xmath175 .",
    "= 16.0 cm    the two - parameter dispersion model was found to produce more acceptable fits to the results .",
    "however , only in the cases in which the small scale velocity dispersion was large did these fits yield values of @xmath4 that were not significantly biased with respect to the true values .",
    "this model also yields a value for the velocity dispersion parameter @xmath112 , but this depends on the degree and form of galaxy bias and so is difficult to directly relate to an interesting physical quantity .",
    "it should be noted that , although the dispersion model was unable to deal with the unbiased @xmath62 simulation , and in fact extracted a value of @xmath4 offset from the true value by several - sigma , results from a variety of cosmological methods are making it seem increasingly unlikely that we live in such a universe ",
    "constraints from the observed @xmath153 and current @xmath4 estimates require a low-@xmath8 or biased cosmology .",
    "thus the dispersion model may well prove to be a useful tool for extracting information from redshift surveys on intermediate scales .",
    "there appear to be two distinct ways to proceed to remedy or by - pass the above short - comings .",
    "\\1 ) improve the analytic models so as to produce accurate predictions over the full range of scales that will be probed by the redshift surveys .",
    "a promising approach is an extension of the model discussed in fisher ( ) , where linear distortion effects on @xmath1 are modelled as a convolution with a gaussian velocity distribution with scale- and orientation - dependent velocity dispersion .",
    "fisher suggests that this model may be adapted to deal with distortions in the highly non - linear regime by replacing the gaussian with a generalized distribution function which is gaussian on large scales but tends to an exponential with isotropic and constant velocity dispersion on small scales .",
    "hamilton et al .",
    "( ) developed an accurate method of obtaining the non - linear correlation function in real space , @xmath176 , using a universal scaling relation .",
    "mo , jing , & brner ( ) outline a technique by which the quantities which define the velocity field ( ie .",
    "mean pairwise peculiar velocity , @xmath177 , pairwise peculiar velocity dispersion , @xmath178 , and mean square peculiar velocity , @xmath179 ) , can be modelled for a given cosmology and initial power spectrum .    given reliable models for these quantities",
    ", fisher s treatment should provide a way of translating @xmath176 into the redshift space statistic @xmath1 , and thus calculating precisely the anisotropy expected on any given scale .",
    "however , this method is still subject to problems ",
    "namely , finding out exactly how the velocity distribution function behaves on intermediate scales , and developing a way for modelling the effects of galaxy bias .",
    "we intend to investigate this in a future paper .",
    "\\2 ) as our computers increase in memory and cpu power , the ` brute force ' approach of simply running simulations for the whole range of parameter space becomes increasingly plausible . here",
    "the dispersion model may be very useful in fitting and suggesting the approximate value of @xmath4 , and thus putting restrictions on the combinations of parameter values worth investigating .",
    "if one is resorting to simulations then it may be possible to filter the data to remove some non - linearities before commencing the analysis of redshift - space distortions . an interesting procedure for doing",
    "this is to identify and collapse galaxy clusters .",
    "since their high velocity dispersion is responsible for much of the suppression of @xmath118 , their removal might lead to more robust estimates of @xmath4 .",
    "illustrates the effect of collapsing clusters in our simulations .",
    "as expected , the anisotropy is much closer to the linear theory prediction on large and intermediate scales . on small scales",
    "the quadrupole ratio converges on zero rather than becoming strongly negative .",
    "cluster membership was established using a friends - of - friends algorithm , in which any pair of galaxies with separation less than @xmath180 times the mean separation are classed as being in the same cluster .",
    "each cluster member then has its velocity replaced with the mean velocity of the cluster itself , effectively eliminating the internal velocity dispersion of these virialized structures .",
    "the identification of galaxy clusters will be much more complex when dealing with real galaxy redshift surveys .",
    "moore , frenk & white ( ) describe a way of applying this technique to the cfa survey using a redshift- and orientation - dependent linking length to define groups .",
    "whatever algorithm one adopts can always be tested by running it on mock galaxy catalogues made from the simulations .    despite the failings of existing models pointed out in this work ,",
    "redshift - space distortion analysis remains very interesting and promises to be of great use in extracting information from the next generation of galaxy surveys .",
    "the authors wish to thank carlos frenk , david weinberg and scott croom for some useful criticisms and karl fisher for advice on evaluating the zeldovich approximation integral .",
    "sc acknowledges the support of a pparc advanced fellowship .",
    "sjh acknowledges the support of a pparc research studentship .",
    "bardeen j.m . ,",
    "bond j.r . ,",
    "kaiser n. , szalay a.s . , 1986 , apj , 304 , 15 baugh c.m . ,",
    "gaztaaga e. , 1996 , mnras , 280 , l37 baugh c.m . , gaztaaga e. , efstathiou g. , 1995 , mnras , 274 , 1049 bean a.j . ,",
    "ellis r.s .",
    ", shanks t. , efstathiou g. , peterson b.a .",
    ", 1983 , mnras , 205 , 605 bouchet f.r . , colombi s. , hivon e. , juszkiewicz r. , 1995 , a&a , 296 , 575 bromley b.c . , warren m.s . , zurek w.h . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 475 , 414 cole s. , fisher k.b . , weinberg d.h . , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 785 cole s. , fisher k.b . , weinberg d.h . , 1995 , mnras , 275 , 515 cole s. , hatton s.j . , weinberg d.h . , frenk c.s .",
    ", in preparation colless m. , 1996 , in proceedings of the heron island conference , http://msowww.anu.edu.au/@xmath181heron/colless/colless.html couchman h.m.p . , 1991 , apj , 368 , 23 da costa l.n . , vogeley m.s . , geller m.j . , huchra j.p . , park c. , 1994 , apj , 437 , l1 davis m. , peebles p.j.e . , 1983 , apj , 267 , 465 efstathiou g. , davis m. , white s.d.m .",
    ", frenk c.s . , 1985 ,",
    "apjs , 57 , 241 eke v.r . , cole s. , frenk c.s . , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 263 feldman h.a . ,",
    "kaiser n. , peacock j.a .",
    ", 1994 , apj , 426 , 23 fisher k.b . , 1995 , apj , 448 , 494 fisher k.b . , nusser a. , 1996 , mnras , 279 , l1 * fn96 * fisher k.b . , davis m. , strauss m.a . , yahil a. , huchra j.p . , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 927 gorski k. , 1988 , apj , 332 , l7 gregory s.a . , thompson l.a . , 1978 ,",
    "apj , 222 , 784 gunn j.e . , weinberg d.h . , 1995 , wide - field spectroscopy and the distant universe , proceedings of the 35th herstmonceux workshop , cambridge university press , cambridge hamilton a.j.s . , 1993 ,",
    "apj , 406 , l47 hamilton a.j.s . ,",
    "kumar p. , lu e. , matthews a. , 1991 , apj , 374 , l1 jackson j.c .",
    ", 1972 , mnras , 156 , 1p kaiser n. , 1987 , mnras , 227 , 1 lin h. , kirshner r.p .",
    ", shectman s.a . ,",
    "landy s.d .",
    ", oemler a. , tucker d.l . ,",
    "schechter p.l . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 471 , 617 loveday j. , efstathiou g. , maddox s.j . , peterson b.a . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 468 , 1l maddox s.j . , efstathiou g. , sutherland w.j . , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 1227 melott a.l . ,",
    "pellman t.e . ,",
    "shandarin s.f .",
    ", 1994 , mnras , 269 , 626 mo h.j .",
    ", jing y.p . , brner g. , 1996 , preprint mpa 992 , max - planck - institut fr astrophysik moore , b. , frenk c.s . , white s.d.m . , 1993 , mnras , 261 , 827 park c. , vogeley m.s .",
    ", geller m.j . , huchra j.p . , 1994 , apj , 431 , 569 peacock j.a .",
    ", dodds s.j . , 1994 ,",
    "mnras , 267 , 1020 peebles p.j.e .",
    ", 1993 , principles of physical cosmology . princeton university press , princeton press w.h . ,",
    "teukolsky s.a . , vetterling w.t . ,",
    "flannery b.p .",
    ", numerical recipes in fortran , 2nd edition .",
    "cambridge university press , cambridge ratcliffe a. , shanks t. , fong r. , parker q.a .",
    ", 1997a , mnras submitted ratcliffe a. , shanks t. , fong r. , parker q.a .",
    ", 1997b , mnras submitted sargent w.w .",
    ", turner e.l . , 1977",
    ", apj , 212 , l3 smoot g. , et al . , 1992 , apj , 396 , l1 strauss m.a . ,",
    "willick j.a . , 1995 ,",
    "physics reports , 261 , 271 tadros h. , efstathiou g. , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 45 taylor a.n . , hamilton a.j.s .",
    ", 1996 , mnras , 282 , 767 weinberg d.h . ,",
    "cole s. , 1992 , mnras , 259 , 652 white s.d.m . , 1994 ,",
    "les houches lectures ( astro - ph/9410043 ) white s.d.m .",
    ", efstathiou g. , frenk c.s .",
    ", 1993 , mnras , 262 , 1023 white s.d.m .",
    ", frenk c.s . , davis m. , efstathiou g. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 505 zeldovich ya.b . , 1970 , a&a , 5 , 84"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use a set of large , high - resolution cosmological simulations to examine the redshift - space distortions of galaxy clustering on scales of order @xmath0mpc . </S>",
    "<S> galaxy redshift surveys currently in progress will , on completion , allow us to measure the quadrupole distortion in the 2-point correlation function , @xmath1 , or its fourier transform , the power spectrum , @xmath2 , to a high degree of accuracy . on these scales </S>",
    "<S> we typically find a positive quadrupole , as expected for coherent infall onto overdense regions and outflow from underdense regions , but the distortion is substantially weaker than that predicted by pure linear theory . </S>",
    "<S> we assess two models that may be regarded as refinements to linear theory , the zeldovich approximation and a dispersion model in which the non - linear velocities generated by the formation of virialized groups and clusters are treated as random perturbations to the velocities predicted by linear theory . </S>",
    "<S> we find that neither provides an adequate physical description of the clustering pattern . </S>",
    "<S> if used to model redshift space distortions on scales for @xmath3mpc the estimated value of @xmath4 ( @xmath5 where @xmath6 and @xmath7 is the galaxy bias parameter ) is liable to systematic errors of order ten per cent or more . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss how such systematics can be avoided by i ) development of a more complete model of redshift distortions and ii ) the direct use of galaxy catalogues generated from non - linear simulations .    </S>",
    "<S> * v *    # 1#1 # 1#1 # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1    cosmology : theory  large - scale structure of universe  galaxies : clustering  galaxies : distances and redshifts . </S>"
  ]
}