{
  "article_text": [
    "an ordinary @xmath0-like test measuring the goodness - of - fit of two supernova spectra often fails to be consistent with what the eye sees qualitatively : good agreement to the eye can be poor or moderate agreement by a @xmath0-like test . since the human eye is an excellent pattern recognization tool , judgments based on eye comparisons informed by a specialist s understanding of spectrum formation are often preferred over @xmath0-like tests or other formulaic tests in identifying similarity and/or goodness - of - fit between two spectra .",
    "human judgment , of course , is qualitative and to some degree subjective .",
    "thus , it would be advantageous to have tests that measure spectrum similarity more consistently with what the eye sees and yet be quantitative and objective .",
    "such tests could be applied in an automated fashion and , one hopes , would show correlations missed by the eye .    in this paper , we present two quantitative tests diff1 and diff2 for measuring goodness - of - fit between two supernova spectra .",
    "the tests are both measures of the relative difference in line patterns .",
    "( the formulae for diff1 and diff2 are given , respectively , in    4.1 and  4.2 . )",
    "both tests depend on what we call local normalization which largely removes continuum features without distorting the line features too much .",
    "local normalization reduces the continuum shape to an apparent flat line of height 1 by dividing the original spectrum by a version of the spectrum smoothed over wavelength interval relatively large compared to line features , but relatively small compared to continuum features .",
    "ordinary ( or global ) normalization is just to divide the spectrum by a constant chosen for some purpose .",
    "the near - equivalent of local normalization has frequently been used for synthetic spectrum calculations simply by inputting a flat continuum at the base of a model atmosphere or by dividing a synthetic spectrum by a known continuum . in the context of synthetic supernova spectra",
    "see , e.g. , @xcite for this kind of procedure . but note that local normalization is a particular procedure applied to spectra with line features and it can not be exactly equivalent to using a flat continuum or dividing a spectrum by a known continuum in synthetic spectrum calculations .",
    "diff1 and diff2 evolved from the diff test presented by @xcite .",
    "diff1 essentially measures the mean relative difference between the line patterns of locally - normalized spectra and diff2 is diff1 minimized by a relative logarithmic wavelength shift between the spectra : the shift is effectively an artificial relative doppler shift . from this description ,",
    "the reader can roughly understand both tests before knowing the test formulae .",
    "both diff1 and diff2 measure the physical similarity of line formation , and thus of supernovae .",
    "diff1 puts more weight on overall physical similarity of the supernovae than diff2 because the diff2 shift compensates somewhat for some physical distinction in the supernovae .",
    "both tests are useful in ordering supernovae into empirical groupings for further analysis .",
    "there are several reasons for local normalization ( or some similar continuum elimination technique ) in comparative supernova spectrum analysis .",
    "first , the intrinsic supernova continuum can often be quite uncertain .",
    "often the main reason for this is uncertainty in the reddening correction .",
    "error in reddening correction can affect , for example , the @xmath1 color and other colors ( particularly toward the blue ) by a significant fraction of a magnitude or more .",
    "uncertainty in reddening is particularly a problem for core - collapse supernovae ( i.e. , types ii - p , ii - l , iin , iib , ib , ic , and ic hypernovae ) which tend to arise in or near star - forming regions in their host galaxies",
    ". foreground galactic reddening can be reasonably confidently corrected for using the results of @xcite for galactic reddening and @xcite and @xcite for the reddening law , but the host galaxy reddening can usually only be corrected for with great uncertainty relying on interstellar lines in the supernova spectra or , with less uncertainty depending on cases , on spectral modeling .",
    "for example , early spectral modeling of type  ii - p supernovae can constrain reddening @xcite . nevertheless , in spectral modeling one would much prefer to have reddening as a given rather than as a parameter to be fitted for  or not to be a consideration which is what local normalization helps toward .",
    "core - collapse supernova types are all rather heterogeneous types , and so judging reddening by a comparison of a supernova to other examples of its type is not usually conclusive .",
    "type  ia supernovae ( sne  ia ) are usually much less reddened as they do not preferentially arise in or near star forming regions and the homogeneity of most of them ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) allows reddening correction by comparison in some cases . but even sne  ia can be highly reddened ( e.g. , @xcite ) and there are peculiar sne  ia ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for which comparisons to determine reddening can be uncertain .",
    "thus , the reddening correction for sne  ia is often uncertain .",
    "in addition to reddening , the continuum can be in error because of errors in the broad - band calibration of the spectrum . a particular problem in achieving good calibration arises because supernovae are transient , time - dependent sources : this means one usually can not simply replace a bad observation by a good one for a given epoch and this limits the ability to achieve good calibration .",
    "another related particular problem arises from the fact that bright well - observed supernovae are relatively rare .",
    "thus , many well - observed supernovae are from earlier instrumentation epochs .",
    "one would like to use the data from these supernovae for analysis since they are to some degree unique even though the data may have very uncertain calibration by modern standards .",
    "reddening and calibration errors tend to affect the spectrum continuum multiplicatively : i.e. , they change flux level by a scaling factor that varies slowly with wavelength .",
    "these kind of uncertainties are ideally , and nearly practically , irrelevant to the process of local normalization ( see   2.1 ) , and thus can not much affect analysis with the locally - normalized spectra .",
    "a kind of continuum uncertainty that is not eliminated by local normalization is the additive uncertainty due to contamination by extraneous sources .",
    "( see   2.1 for why this is so . )",
    "the most common contamination is from the host galaxy emission .",
    "when a supernova is at its brightest this contamination is often small , but in later phases when the supernova dims it can become significant and dominant . host galaxy contamination can be subtracted off using spectra of the galaxy when the supernovae is absent , but it is not always clear to analyzers of supernova spectra when this has been done .",
    "another kind of contamination is peculiar to supernovae associated with gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) : such supernovae may all be what are now called hypernovae ( since they are very energetic and perhaps very massive ) or as we prefer type  ic  hypernovae since they seem to lack conspicuous lines of hydrogen and helium and the strong si  ii  @xmath2 line .",
    "( lack of conspicuous hydrogen and helium lines together with the lack of a strong si  ii  @xmath2 line are the defining observational characteristics of type  ic supernovae . )",
    "the contamination is the uvoir ( ultraviolet - optical - infrared ) afterglow of the grb itself which tends to be a line - free continuum .",
    "correction for this kind of contamination can be done , but with some uncertainty @xcite .",
    "yet another contamination ( which unfortunately also affects the line pattern ) is light echoing caused by supernova light from earlier phases reflected off dust clouds and added to the light of the current supernova phase .",
    "light echoes , if recognized , can be corrected for , but with some error , of course .",
    "for the developments in this paper , we assume that contamination of all kinds can be adequately corrected for .",
    "because of all the effects mentioned above , the continuum shape of supernova spectra may be incorrect and misleading about the degree of similarity between spectrum pairs .",
    "on the other hand the line pattern in the spectra should be better for determining similarities since this is less affected by broad - band uncertainties in reddening and calibration .",
    "for example , if a spectrum pair had an identical line pattern , but different continuum shapes , one would have good reason to believe that the supernovae are , in fact , highly similar and at a similar phase in their evolution and that the discrepancy in continuum shape was just caused by reddening correction and/or calibration error . in the contrasting case , where the line patterns are very different , but the continuum shapes are identical , one would conclude the supernovae are not very similar or at different phases in their evolution despite the similar continua . in both extreme cases , it is the line patterns that provide the decisive evidence , not the continua .",
    "thus , if one can adequately correct or neglect contamination , analysis with locally - normalized spectra should give good insight into the intrinsic similarities and differences among supernovae .",
    "it is a basic premise of this paper that line pattern is a much better signature of intrinsic supernova behavior than continuum shape , and so eliminating continuum shape information is not too important for spectrum comparisons .",
    "a second reason for using local normalization applies even when the continuum shapes are assumed to be well known .",
    "if one is searching just for similarity of line patterns as a clue to physical similarities , then varying continuum shapes tend to obscure the similarities of the patterns both to the eye and formulaic tests .",
    "being able to measure similarity of line patterns for heterogeneous samples of supernovae from varying phases is important in studying the time - varying supernova structure . especially for core - collapse supernovae",
    "in which even members of the same type show considerably individuality and in which the time coverage of their evolution can often be very incomplete , local normalization could become an important tool in analysis .",
    "a third reason , for local normalization is that spectra are frequently analyzed using synthetic spectra calculated from highly simplified radiative transfer : e.g. , analyses done using the parameterized code synow ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) such simplified radiative transfer does not treat continuum radiative transfer with high physical realism and in fits of synthetic to observed spectra mismatches in the continuum in some regions are obvious and are not considered very important in the important results derived from the synthetic spectrum analysis : the important results being line identification and ejecta velocity structure",
    ". local normalization of both observed and synthetic spectra can be used to reduce the distraction of mismatching continuum shapes ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .    in   2 of this paper ,",
    "we discuss the theoretical basis for local normalization and how we actually carry out local normalization .",
    "section  3 gives examples of locally - normalized spectra for the type  iib supernova with some analysis of these spectra .",
    "the uv parts of two of the sn  1993j spectra are _ hubble space telescope _",
    "( _ hst_@xmath3 ) spectra that have not been published before . also in   3 (   3.5 )",
    "is an investigation of the continuum independence of local normalization .",
    "the diff1 and diff2 formulae are presented in   4 , where we also present an example of fitted locally - normalized spectra .",
    "as an example of the utility of diff1/2 ,   5 gives some preliminary statistical results for the spectra of supernovae of types  iib , ib , ic , and ic  hypernovae .",
    "we will collectively refer to these supernovae as hydrogen - deficient core - collapse ( hdcc ) supernovae .",
    "conclusions and discussion are given in ",
    "this paper makes use of and refers to material found at the first author s online supernova spectrum database suspend ( supernovae spectra pending further analysis ) .",
    "the url for suspend is given in a footnote to the abstract .",
    "the basic procedure of local normalization is to divide a spectrum by a smoothed version of itself where the smoothing length is sufficiently large that line features are largely erased , but the continuum shape is largely unaffected , in the smoothed version .",
    "we call the smoothing for local - normalization large - scale smoothing to distinguish it from the small - scale smoothing used to suppress noise .",
    "the spectrum resulting from the division has ideally a continuum level of 1 everywhere as judged by the eye .    in   2.1 , we discuss the theoretical basis for local normalization . in   2.2 , we discuss our actual procedure for carrying out local normalization .      for concreteness , in our discussion",
    "let us model an observed spectrum @xmath4 by the following heuristic formula : @xmath5 where @xmath6 is some kind of multiplicative scaling error which could be the effect of unknown reddening or calibration error , @xmath7 is the intrinsic continuum spectrum , @xmath8 is the line spectrum , @xmath9 is some extraneous and unknown contamination flux , and @xmath10 is the intrinsic spectrum . the line spectrum is defined by saying it has a height of 1 when it is smoothed over some specified smoothing length that is of order the size of the full width of an individual line profile : thus @xmath11 where the angle brackets indicate smoothing with the required smoothing length .",
    "we make the assumption that @xmath6 , @xmath7 , and @xmath9 are all sufficiently slowly varying with wavelength that smoothing them over the smoothing length leaves them effectively unchanged .",
    "( we are neglecting the possibility of uncorrected - for light - echo contamination ( see   1 ) . ) now say we smooth the observed spectrum over the smoothing length .",
    "we obtain @xmath12 where we have used the assumption that @xmath9 is unaffected by smoothing . assuming that @xmath13 can be approximated as constant over line widths , we now obtain @xmath14 where we have used the assumptions that @xmath6 and @xmath7 are unaffected by smoothing and equation  ( [ eq - line - spectrum - smoothed ] ) . making use of equations  ( [ eq - f - obs ] ) , ( [ eq - f - obs - smoothed ] ) , and  ( [ eq - f - obs - smoothed - b ] ) , and our concept of local normalization , the locally - normalized version of @xmath4 ( which we denote by @xmath15 ) is given by @xmath16 \\,\\ , .",
    "\\label{eq - locally - normalized - line - spectra}\\ ] ]    what we would really like to have is the line spectrum @xmath8 ( as we have defined it above ) and what we can obtain from measurements is @xmath15 .",
    "the line spectrum @xmath8 is what we believe contains much of the information about the object that we are interested in .",
    "the @xmath8 and @xmath15 spectra are equal if contamination is zero no matter what @xmath6 and @xmath7 may be given our assumptions .",
    "( the equality is only exact in the spectrum model of this discussion . in reality , it can only be approximate since line and continuum behavior can not be completely separated . )",
    "thus , the effect of any scaling errors are eliminated from the locally - normalized spectra in the absence of contamination .",
    "this is one of the great benefits of using locally - normalized spectra in spectrum analysis .    if @xmath17 and @xmath8 not much smaller than 1 , then @xmath18 \\,\\ , ,   \\label{eq - locally - normalized - line - spectra-1st}\\ ] ] where we have expanded equation  ( [ eq - locally - normalized - line - spectra ] ) to first order in @xmath19 .",
    "we see that contamination error only cancels to zeroth order .",
    "nevertheless , if @xmath19 is sufficiently small , then contamination will have only a small effect on the locally - normalized spectrum . on the other hand ,",
    "if @xmath19 becomes large compared to 1 and @xmath8 , the locally - normalized spectrum tends to have value 1 everywhere and be almost independent of the line spectrum as one can see from equation  ( [ eq - locally - normalized - line - spectra ] ) .",
    "in the rest of this paper , we assume contamination is , in fact , negligible or has been adequately corrected for , and thus that @xmath9 is approximately zero . given this assumption ,",
    "the locally - normalized spectra are approximately the line spectra as we have defined them above .",
    "there is probably no absolute optimum way of carrying out the basic procedure of local normalization .",
    "we have developed a prescription , however , that seems very adequate .",
    "the large - scale smoothing is box - car - like where we march through the spectrum wavelength by wavelength and make use of a box - car interval about each wavelength to construct a smoothed flux value at that wavelength .",
    "the size of the box - car interval is the smoothing length .",
    "the choice of the smoothing length is a key point .",
    "if one makes the smoothing length too small , line features tend to get suppressed in the locally - normalized spectra : in the limit that the smoothing length goes to zero ,",
    "the locally - normalized spectra become 1 everywhere . on the other hand ,",
    "if one makes the smoothing length too large , then the locally - normalized spectra retain continuum features : in the limit that the smoothing length goes to infinity , the locally - normalized spectra are just ordinary ( or globally ) normalized spectra . unfortunately in supernova spectra",
    ", the wavelength scale of the p  cygni and emission line profiles can be very large because of the large doppler shift velocities in the supernova ejecta .",
    "( supernova lines in the photospheric or optically - thick phase are broad p - cygni lines with a blueshifted absorption and an emission feature centered roughly on the rest - frame line - center wavelength .",
    "see , e.g. , @xcite for a discussion of p - cygni line formation in supernovae . ) usually , the largest velocities one needs to consider are of order @xmath20 and these lead to relative doppler shifts of line opacity wavelength of @xmath21 or of order @xmath22% .",
    "however , line features can form at velocities of up to perhaps @xmath23 in type  ic hypernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) at early times and of up to at least @xmath24 in other kinds of supernovae if seen at sufficiently early times in the uv as evidenced by the p  cygni line of the resonance multiplet mg  ii @xmath25 ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) seen in the earliest _ iue _ spectrum of type  ii supernova ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . with doppler shift velocity of @xmath23 ,",
    "a relative wavelength shift would be @xmath26 or of order @xmath27% .",
    "since one has to consider opacity shifted both to the blue and the red , the relative wavelength width of a line profile in extreme cases could be of order @xmath28% .",
    "continuum features that vary on the scale of @xmath28% of wavelength certainly exist .",
    "thus , for supernovae at least in extreme cases , one can not completely decouple line and continuum behavior .",
    "one must make a choice for the smoothing length for locally - normalized spectra that does not suppress line behavior too much and that does not let too much continuum behavior leak in .",
    "there is probably no absolute optimum choice for all cases .",
    "we have found that a relative smoothing length of @xmath29% of the current wavelength in the smoothing procedure is good : the smoothing region extends @xmath30% blueward and @xmath30% redward of the current wavelength as one marches through the wavelength points .",
    "the choice of @xmath29% is motivated as follows .",
    "the continuum level determined by blackbody - behavior and reddening @xcite is relatively constant over a region of @xmath29% surrounding a wavelength . on the other hand ,",
    "as mentioned above , usually the largest velocities one needs to consider are of order @xmath20 and these lead to relative doppler shifts of line opacity wavelength of @xmath21 or of order @xmath22% : the whole line profile in this case will vary over @xmath31% of the current wavelength .",
    "thus a relative smoothing length of @xmath29% should be effective at smoothing away most line features in the smoothed spectrum , but not smoothing the continuum shape too much .    to calculate the large - scale smoothed spectrum itself , a common approach is to simply numerically integrate ( e.g. , using the trapezoid rule ) the spectrum over the box - car interval centered on the current wavelength and divide by the box - car interval to obtain an average flux for the box - car interval which one assigns to the current wavelength .",
    "for ordinary small - scale smoothing , nothing special needs to be done about the ends of the spectrum even though they can be treated somewhat wrongly . as an end",
    "is approached , the box - car interval gets progressively truncated at that end and the calculated average flux is progressively a less good approximation for the smoothed flux at the current wavelength : it is the smoothed flux for some point in the box - car interval farther from the end . in small - scale smoothing ,",
    "the smoothing length is comparatively short and somewhat bad behavior at the spectrum ends is usually unimportant . but with a large smoothing length , such as we require for local normalization , this bad behavior at the ends can significantly degrade local normalization near the ends . if the spectrum continuum is relatively flat near the ends , there may be no noticeable degradation .",
    "but if the continuum is rising / falling at an end , then the smoothed spectrum becomes too small / large at that end and the locally - normalized spectrum continuum can appear to be rising / falling from 1 at the end . to avoid this problem",
    ", we fit a line using least - squares to the spectrum in the box - car interval and determine the smoothed spectrum at the current wavelength from this fitted line .",
    "( actually we fit a line to logarithmic flux as a function of logarithmic wavelength .",
    "this means we are fitting the flux to a power - law function of wavelength .",
    "see below . ) in the interior of the spectrum , this least - squares line fitting gives almost the same result as calculating an average flux for the box - car interval , but at the spectrum ends it usually prevents the locally - normalized continuum from departing obviously from 1 . since spectra are not necessarily very linear ( or like a power - law function ) over the box - car interval , it is not immediately obvious that this fitting of a line ( actually a power - law function in our calculations ) should always work well .",
    "but the resulting locally - normalized spectra seem generally pleasing to the eye including at the ends and we accept the eye s judgment for our prescription .    in plotting spectra",
    ", we often prefer to plot logarithmic flux versus logarithmic wavelength .",
    "the choice of logarithmic wavelength owes to the fact that line profile widths are determined by large doppler shifts of line opacity wavelength from the rest - frame line opacity wavelength . for example , say a particular component of the line profiles forms in the ejecta moving at velocity @xmath32 along the line - of - sight counting velocity as positive in the direction away from the observer . for a given line of rest - frame line - center wavelength @xmath33",
    ", the component will appear in a spectrum at @xmath34 where we have used the relativistic doppler shift formula ( e.g. , @xcite , p.  78 ; @xcite , p.  495 ) and the 1st order ( in @xmath35 ) doppler shift formula .",
    "( the 1st order doppler shift formula is usually adequate for supernovae . ) from equation  ( [ eq - doppler - formula ] ) , we see for a set of lines that the components in a spectrum plot against wavelength will appear at different wavelength shifts from the line - center wavelengths .",
    "thus , the line profiles will tend to have varying widths that scale with @xmath33 . in spectrum figures",
    ", this has an unpleasing effect of making the blue side of a spectrum look relatively crowded with line features and the red side look relatively uncrowded with line features . if one plots using logarithmic wavelength , then the aforementioned particular component is found at @xmath36 = \\log(\\lambda_{\\rm",
    "line})+\\log(1+v / c ) \\approx \\log(\\lambda_{\\rm line } ) + \\left({v\\over c}\\right)\\log(e )   \\,\\ , , \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where we have made an expansion of the logarithm to 1st order in @xmath35 which is consistent in order of expansion with the 1st order doppler shift formula .",
    "we see that in logarithmic wavelength , the shift of the particular component is the same for all line profiles ( from relativistic doppler shift formula ) and that this shift is approximately proportional to @xmath35 .",
    "thus , the line profiles will tend to have the same width across the spectrum when plotted using logarithmic wavelength .",
    "varying line strength and line blending , of course , prevent the profiles from having an identical appearance when plotted versus logarithmic wavelength .",
    "using logarithmic wavelength gives the plotted spectrum a balanced and pleasing appearance . the above argument for plotting spectra versus logarithmic wavelength applies for both ordinary spectra and locally - normalized spectra .    in plotting ordinary spectra ( i.e. , not locally - normalized spectra )",
    ", we often make the choice of plotting logarithmic flux since it gives a more equal appearance to small and large features of a spectrum .",
    "say we take equation  ( 2 ) ( see   2.1 ) for the intrinsic flux ( which for the sake of argument we assume that we know ) and take the logarithm : we get @xmath37 from equation  ( 10 ) , we see that line profiles of the same relative size ( i.e. , the same @xmath8 profile ) will have the same absolute size when logarithmic flux is plotted since the line profiles are just added to the continuum for logarithmic flux and not multiplied by the continuum as in the non - logarithmic case . of course , varying relative line profile size and line blending will make the logarithmic line profiles vary in absolute size .",
    "nevertheless there is some equalization in line profile appearance in using logarithmic flux .",
    "why do we prefer the more equal appearance of plotting logarithmic flux when large line features , of course , represent larger effects ?",
    "the reason is that small line features present fine tests for spectrum modeling and clues about quantities ( e.g. , composition ) that may not be apparent in the large line features .",
    "thus , giving more equal weighting to large and small line features makes sense .",
    "using local normalization has a similar effect to using logarithmic flux : there is an equalization in plotted size of line profiles of the same size relative to the continuum in the ordinary spectra .",
    "nevertheless , we plot the logarithmic flux of the locally normalized spectra in plotting .",
    "this is for consistency with our usual practice with ordinary spectra .",
    "as mentioned above , in making locally - normalized spectra , we actually use logarithmic flux and logarithmic wavelength in creating fitted lines for the large - scale smoothing rather than just using flux and wavelength . this procedure in creating the locally - normalized spectra tends to make the locally - normalized continuum more like 1 everywhere to the eye on a log - log plot .",
    "locally - normalized spectra calculated using a line fitted to flux as a function of wavelength ( which we will call the unlogged locally - normalized spectra ) look similar to those calculated with our logarithmic fitting procedure , but the difference is clearly significant to the eye .    before applying the large - scale smoothing in our local normalization procedure",
    ", we also apply to all our spectra a small - scale box - car smoothing ( using trapezoid rule integration ) with a relative smoothing length of @xmath38 which corresponds to a doppler shift velocity of about @xmath39 .",
    "this smoothing reduces the noise in some of the spectra particularly at the spectrum ends .",
    "for some particularly noisy spectra , we sometimes use a larger small - scale smoothing length .",
    "the small - scale smoothing should not degrade the spectrum features very much .",
    "supernova line features generally vary relatively slowly over wavelength scales corresponding to doppler shift velocities of order @xmath39 .",
    "interstellar and telluric lines can vary rapidly on shorter wavelength scales , but these are not intrinsic to supernova spectra and could be eliminated from the spectra if necessary .",
    "a stand - alone fortran-95 code locnorm.f for making locally normalizing spectra is available for downloading from suspend under the heading _",
    "useful programs_. all the supernova spectra currently in suspend are shown plotted in original and locally - normalized format under the heading _",
    "supernovae by epoch _ in html files in supernova directories .",
    "figures  1 , 2 , 3 , and  4 ( which we discuss individually below in separate subsections ) show locally - normalized supernova spectra plotted on log - log plots together with the original spectra in the wavelength representation ( i.e. , @xmath40 or flux - per - unit - wavelength representation ) : the locally - normalized spectra are obviously the ones with continuum levels of about 1 and the original spectra have been vertically shifted to be well displayed .",
    "the spectra are all for type  iib supernova sn  1993j which occurred in ( ngc  3031 ) .",
    "they have been deredshifted using host galaxy heliocentric velocity @xmath41 from leda @xcite .",
    "( since the host galaxy heliocentric velocity is negative , the spectra are , of course , actually redshifted to be put in the rest frame . ) the original spectra have not been dereddened .",
    "the @xmath42 reddening value for sn  1993j is quite uncertain .",
    "@xcite after a lengthy consideration of many methods of determining @xmath42 for sn  1993j suggest that the sn  1993j @xmath42 value is in the range @xmath43@xmath44mag which is a range from low to moderate @xmath42 .",
    "the possible intrinsic spectra obtained by correcting an observed spectrum using @xmath42 values from this range and a standard reddening law ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) would show a considerable range in continuum behavior .",
    "thus , the intrinsic continuum behavior of sn  1993j for any phase is quite uncertain . avoiding the uncertainty in dereddening and calibrating observed spectra is one of the main reasons for using local normalization as discussed in   [ introduction ] . because m81 is at a distance of only @xmath45mpc ( as determined from cepheids @xcite )",
    ", sn  1993j became a very bright and well - observed supernova .",
    "it was discovered on 1993 march 28.86 ut ( jd  2449075.36 ) @xcite which was probably only about a day after explosion ( or core collapse ) which may have been 1993 march @xmath46 ( jd @xmath47 ) @xcite .",
    "an initial very high peak in uvoir bolometric brightness was partially observed ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : this peak , which probably happens for all core - collapse supernovae soon after shock break - out , is usually unobserved , and so is not used to define conventional uvoir bolometric maximum light even though it may often / always be higher than conventional uvoir bolometric maximum light as it is for sn  1993j .",
    "sn  1993j s ( conventional ) maximum lights occurred on 1993 april 16 ( jd 2449093.7 ) in @xmath48 , 1993 april 17 ( jd 2449095.0 ) in @xmath49 , and 1993 april @xmath50 ( jd @xmath51 ) in uvoir bolometric luminosity @xcite .",
    "the uvoir bolometric luminosity rise time to maximum light was about 20  days @xcite .",
    "the maximum @xmath48 and @xmath49 apparent magnitudes were , respectively , @xmath52 and @xmath53 @xcite .",
    "sn  1993j was originally classified as a type  ii supernova because it had conspicuous hydrogen balmer lines .",
    "however , these lines did not become as strong as in typical type  ii supernovae and by about 40  days after explosion sn  1993j evolved to resemble type  ib supernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "type  ib supernovae have metal lines and conspicuous helium lines and , it seems in general , hydrogen lines that are somewhat weak and hard to identify especially after maximum light @xcite .",
    "supernovae that undergo a transformation from type  ii to type  ib have come to be called type  iib s using a term invented by @xcite in a theoretical prediction that small - hydrogen - envelope supernovae could exist .",
    "type  iib s are considered to be hydrogen - deficient compared to ordinary type  ii supernovae , but probably have more hydrogen than type  ib / c s .",
    "the observational prototype type  iib is @xcite .",
    "two other type  iib supernovae with a significant number of published spectra are @xcite and @xcite . as of 2007 march 8",
    ", the supernova list of @xcite contains 25 type  iib or possible type  iib supernovae ( including sn  1987k which is actually listed as a type  ii ) .",
    "the ejecta of sn  1993j had a shock interaction with a thick circumstellar wind shed by the supernova progenitor as evidenced by radio and x - ray emission ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * and references therein ) . in this respect ,",
    "sn  1993j was like the type  ii supernovae and which also showed strong radio emission ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the interaction also had an effect on the uv spectra of sn  1993j similar to that on sn  1979c and sn  1980k .",
    "we will discuss this uv effect briefly in   3.2 .",
    "we have made some line identifications in the figures by labels giving the line s parent ion or specific line name in the case of the balmer lines .",
    "the labels are only given for the lines in the locally normalized spectra since the corresponding lines in the original spectra are identified by comparison to the locally normalized spectra . for clear p  cygni lines , we put the identification labels with the blueshifted absorption features of the p  cygni lines since this is usually the most distinct part of the line profiles . for emission lines ,",
    "we put the identification labels with the emission features of the emission lines .",
    "p  cygni lines dominate optical / ir spectra in the photospheric phase and emission lines in the nebular phase .",
    "figures  1 and  2 show photospheric phase spectra and figures  3 and  4 show nebular phase spectra .",
    "we should remark that in the photospheric phase , a supernova is optically thick in the optical / ir . as the supernova expands , the opacities must fall with decreasing density and the supernova gradually enters the nebular phase where the supernova is optically thin in the optical / ir .",
    "supernovae tend to remain optically thick in the uv for much longer than in the optical / ir because there are many strong metal lines in the uv particularly from the iron - peak elements .",
    "there is no sharp dividing time between the two phases .",
    "one often just starts using the term nebular phase when the emission features start to dominate the optical / ir line pattern .",
    "there is also no sharp distinction between p  cygni lines ( possessing blueshifted absorptions and emission features usually centered on the rest - frame line - center wavelengths ) and emission lines ( which are just emission features usually centered on the rest - frame line - center wavelengths ) .",
    "( the centering of emissions on the rest - frame line - wavelengths is often approximate and sometimes the emissions are significantly shifted .",
    "for example , strongly blueshifted emission lines can occur in the uv . for examples of such emission lines ,",
    "  3.23.4 . )",
    "in practice , when the absorption feature of a p  cygni line has become hard to identify , we can say it has become or nearly become an emission line .",
    "we should also remark that supernova matter after the explosion phase is in uniform motion and the whole ejecta structure just scales up linearly with time @xmath54 since the explosion which is effectively a point event .",
    "this motion is called homologous expansion . in homologous expansion ,",
    "the radial velocity of any matter element of ejecta is a good comoving - frame radial coordinate and we use it as such as is customary in supernova studies .",
    "the densities of the matter elements in the ejecta scale as @xmath55 .      because of its closeness and brightness , sn  1993j was spectroscopically very well observed with the earliest spectrum taken on 1993 march 29.88 ut ( jd  2449076.38 ) with the isaac newton telescope by e.  perez and d.  jones @xcite .",
    "the spectrum in figure  1 is also an early one from 1993 march 31 ( jd 2449078.35 ) @xcite which is about 4  days after explosion and is about 16  days before uvoir bolometric maximum light .",
    "the original spectrum rises very steeply to the blue showing that the supernova photosphere was very hot at this phase . from figure  11 of @xcite",
    ", we estimate that a blackbody spectrum fit to the spectrum ( if it was well calibrated ) for this phase would give a blackbody temperature in the range @xmath56@xmath57k where the range is caused by the uncertainty in the reddening .",
    "the uncertainty in spectrum temperature highlights the difficulty in relying on continuum shape for determining the physical properties of supernovae from heterogeneous types with uncertain reddening and supports our argument for giving more weight to the line pattern than to the continuum shape ( see   1 ) .",
    "we have identified the lines in figure  1 mostly following @xcite and @xcite . for this spectrum and the others below",
    ", we also rely on our general understanding of spectrum formation in making identifications .",
    "the h@xmath58 identification is uncertain because the absorption feature identified as possibly due to h@xmath58 is rather weak and indefinite .",
    "the he  i line is he  i @xmath59 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the ca  ii line actually arises from the ca  ii ir triplet",
    "( i.e. , ca  ii @xmath60 , where we have cited the @xmath61-weighted mean line wavelength : the component lines are at @xmath62 , @xmath63 , and @xmath64 ) ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "( hereafter we usually cite only the @xmath61-weighted mean line wavelength for multiplets . ) the line velocities ( i.e. , the velocities corresponding to the doppler blueshifts of the line absorption minima from the rest - frame line - center wavelengths ) are about @xmath65 ( h@xmath58 if this is the correct identification ) , @xmath66 ( h@xmath67 ) , @xmath68 ( h@xmath69 ) , @xmath70 ( he  i ) , @xmath71 ( h@xmath72 ) , and @xmath73 ( ca  ii ir triplet ) .",
    "we use the @xmath61-weighted mean wavelengths for calculating the line velocities of multiplets .",
    "( here and throughout our discussion , wavelength measurements are made from the locally - normalized spectra and we do a little smoothing by eye to determine the minima when needed . )",
    "the low velocity of h@xmath67 may be because of line blending with h@xmath58 since the lines are separated in doppler shift velocity by only @xmath74 .",
    "the much higher velocity for the ca  ii ir triplet line than for the other lines makes the identification a bit uncertain , but there seems nothing else it could be . in fact , high - velocity line features , for lines including the ca  ii lines , have been found for at least one other hdcc supernova ( type  ibc sn  2005bf @xcite ; see   [ introduction ] for hdcc supernovae ) and the work of @xcite imples that high - velocity line features might be common in type  ic supernova spectra .",
    "( by high - velocity features , we mean line absorptions forming well above the photosphere at velocities of perhaps @xmath75 . )",
    "given the above remarks , it is possible , speaking speculatively , that hdcc supernovae of all kinds ( such as type  iib sn  1993j ) might have some high - velocity line features in some cases .",
    "a remarkable feature of the line pattern is that the h@xmath69 line is much stronger than the h@xmath72 line : this can not happen in local - thermodynamic equilibrium ( lte ) .",
    "the feature may require a non - lte ( nlte ) explanation . on the other hand , the feature may be a result of an observational error of some kind since another sn  1993j spectrum from the same day reported by @xcite does not clearly show the h@xmath69 line stronger than the h@xmath72 line . in any case , @xcite using the nlte code phoenix were able to fit the continuum well , but not the lines for the march  3031 phase of sn  1993j .",
    "their difficulty may lie in the inaccurate physical structure of their model and/or an inaccurate reddening correction .",
    "figure  2 shows the sn  1993j spectrum from 1993 april  15 @xcite : this was 2  days before uvoir bolometric maximum light and about 18  days after explosion .",
    "the spectrum is a combination of an _ hst _ uv - blue - optical spectrum and lick observatory ground - based spectrum .",
    "the _ hst _",
    "spectrum was obtained as part of the _ hst _ supernova intensive study ( sins ) general observer program @xcite .",
    "the two spectra agreed well in shape and scale in their overlap region @xmath76@xmath77 , and so we simply joined them at @xmath78  cutting off the overlapping ends .",
    "the line identifications mostly follow from @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the line velocities are in the range @xmath79@xmath65 @xcite .",
    "we emphasize though that the lines are often blended and the identifications in many cases only indicate the strongest contributor to the line feature .",
    "the 4 strongest hydrogen balmer lines , the he  i @xmath59 line and the ca  ii ir triplet line are again present .",
    "we note that h@xmath72 is now the strongest line in the optical part of the spectrum ( but note that the mg  ii line in the uv is comparably strong : see below ) and that it is in net emission which is typical of h@xmath72 lines in type  ii supernovae .",
    "the absorption centered at about @xmath80  is caused by the ca  ii  h&k lines : i.e. , the multiplet ca  ii @xmath81 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this multiplet is very strong because it is a resonance multiplet ( i.e. , it arises from the ground level ) .",
    "the line velocity for the ca  ii  h&k lines is @xmath82 .",
    "the fe  ii lines mainly arise from the multiplets fe  ii @xmath83 , fe  ii @xmath84 , and fe  ii @xmath85 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* table  4 ) .",
    "the absorption centered at about @xmath86   may be the absorption of a p  cygni line caused by the multiplet o  i  @xmath87 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this line is common in type  ib / c supernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) and type  ia supernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but unfortunately its absorption usually coincides with a strong telluric line and it is sometimes , as here , unclear if the telluric line has been adequately corrected for .",
    "we regard this identification as tentative . if the identification is correct , the o  i  @xmath87 line velocity is @xmath88 . by about 40  days past uvoir bolometric maximum light ,",
    "the o  i  @xmath87 line seems clearly present @xcite .",
    "the uv of sn  1993j is similar to that of sn  1979c and sn  1980k and is probably greatly modified from what a bare supernova would have given by circumstellar shock interaction @xcite . in a series of papers , @xcite and @xcite have given a detailed model of supernova uv behavior with circumstellar interaction : this work was stimulated by international ultraviolet explorer ( _ iue _ ) data for sn  1979c and sn  1980k . in brief",
    ", some fraction of uvoir light from the supernova photosphere is scattered by shock - heated electrons in the shock region of ejecta and circumstellar matter and comptonized ( i.e. , blueshifted up to the uv or extreme uv ) .",
    "also there will be x - ray emission from the shock - heated gas .",
    "some of the comptonized light and x - ray emission just escapes the supernova environment , but some back - heats the outer supernova ejecta and creates a complex , layered , photoionization region in the outer supernova atmosphere . the emission from back - heating adds to the direct emission from the supernova interior that emerges at the photosphere . in the optical ,",
    "this emission from back - heating is probably negligible ( except in some lines ) , but in uv blueward of perhaps @xmath89  it appears to become important by comparison to spectra from supernovae with little or no circumstellar interaction @xcite . as well as",
    "continuum emission from recombination and free - free emission , uv emission lines from ionized atoms can make a considerable contribution : the prominent uv emission lines are primarily resonance lines that have been collisionally excited by the back - heated medium . the layers of comptonized - flux photonization form a geometrically narrow shell of ejecta moving at velocities of order @xmath90 .",
    "the observer sees the emission from back - heating primarily from this shell . below the shell",
    "is the optically thick photosphere .",
    "thus , the observer mostly sees the emission from back - heating from the near - side of the ejecta with line - of - sight velocities ranging from much less than @xmath90 away from the observer up to line - of - sight velocities of order @xmath90 toward the observer . for uv emission lines , the varying doppler shift given by the moving shell will result in broad blueshifted emission features .",
    "an effect that tends to enhance blueshifted line emission from a shell surrounding an opaque photosphere is diffuse reflection toward the observer of the line emission from the photosphere @xcite .",
    "this reflected line emission must mainly come from the near side of the photosphere , and thus will tend to be mainly blueshifted from the rest - frame line - center wavelength and hence the enhancement of the blueshifted line emission . if the interior of the shell were transparent , the light that could otherwise be reflected would simply stream away from the observer and all redshifted line emission from the far side of the shell would come toward the observer .",
    "the reflection can be caused by scattering from electrons , but in the uv , particularly in the nebular phase when the electron optical depth through the ejecta has become small , the reflection is probably mainly by scattering from the many iron - peak - element lines in the uv . to understand the reflection effect clearly ,",
    "imagine an ideal case of a perfectly reflecting photosphere just interior to a very geometrically thin line - emitting shell .",
    "virtually all the line emission from the near side of the shell moving inward would be reflected from the near side of the photosphere and some would go to the observer . virtually no emission or reflection would come to the observer from , respectively , the far side of the shell or the far side of the photosphere .",
    "since the photosphere matter is expanding homologously , the reflected light toward the observer will be mostly blueshifted .",
    "note that in moving inward toward the photosphere , the line emitted photons will redshift from the rest - frame line - center wavelength in the comoving frame and that the photosphere is moving a little more slowly than the shell .",
    "( propagating photons always redshift in the comoving frame in homologously expanding atmospheres no matter what the degree of special relativistic effects @xcite . )",
    "consequently , the light reflected toward the observer will tend on average to be less blueshifted in the observer frame than the line emission coming directly from the line - emitting shell . because the photosphere is just interior to the shell in our ideal case , this redshift effect will be small . in a real case , the shell will not necessarily be very geometrically thin , and so some significant amount of redshifted flux from the far side of the line - emitting shell could reach the observer . also some fraction of the observer - directed reflected light ( mainly from near the photosphere limb where the line - of - sight velocity of the photosphere is small ) will end up a bit redshifted from the line - center wavelength in the observer frame because of the redshift in the comoving frame that happens while the light moves inward toward the photosphere .",
    "but the contribution of this redshifted reflected light is probably relatively small in most cases .",
    "note also , a real photosphere will not , of course , be perfectly reflecting : some of the line emission will be absorbed and its energy dispersed to other parts of the spectrum .",
    "we have not attempted a full identification of features seen in the uv region of the spectra we present",
    ". however , the strong emission - like feature peaking at @xmath91   in the spectrum must be the resonance multiplet mg  ii @xmath25 ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ) blueshifted and in emission and produced as discussed by fransson .",
    "( the emission features most fully analyzed by fransson were primarily those from blueward of @xmath92 , but his analysis seems to apply to mg  ii @xmath25 as well . ) in sn  1979c uv _ iue _ spectra @xcite , a similar blueshifted mg  ii @xmath25 emission appeared possibly about 7  days after optical maximum light ( 1979 april 22 ) @xcite , became definite by 33  days past optical maximum ( 1979 may 18 ) , and was still clearly present in the last _ iue _ observation about 111  days past maximum ( 1979 august 4 ) .",
    "( optical maximum light for sn  1979c was about 1979 april 15 @xcite . ) in sn  1980k uv _ iue _ spectra @xcite , a similar blueshifted mg  ii @xmath25 emission seems to have arisen about 26  days after optical maximum light ( 1980 october 30 ) and be present on the last _ iue _ observation from about 62  days past optical maximum ( 1981 january 5 ) . in the sn",
    "1980k spectra , the emission is generally less clear than in sn  1979 spectra , but it definitely present about 35  days past optical maximum ( 1980 december 9 ) .",
    "( optical maximum light of sn  1980k was about 1980 november 4 @xcite . )",
    "we note that an mg  ii @xmath25 emission line is a common feature of quasar emission - line clouds ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) which may somewhat resemble the uv emission shell of circumstellar - interacting supernovae @xcite .",
    "the mg  ii @xmath25 emission peak wavelength @xmath91   corresponds to a doppler blueshift velocity of @xmath93 which is within the range of p - cygni line velocities in the optical @xmath79@xmath65 @xcite .",
    "if we just define @xmath94  as the characteristic blue edge of the mg  ii @xmath25 emission ( which is good for later phases : see    3.3 and  3.4 below ) , the corresponding doppler blueshift velocity is @xmath95 .",
    "we take this velocity as the characteristic velocity of the mg  ii @xmath25 emission shell .    without strong circumstellar interaction ,",
    "the mg  ii @xmath25 multiplet would probably contribute along with fe ii lines to a blueshifted p - cygni absorption feature . for type  ia supernovae",
    ", the absorption can be seen in the _ hst _ spectra of in the photospheric phase @xcite and , perhaps , well into the nebular phase at 291  days after @xmath48 maximum light although not so identified @xcite . for type  ii supernovae",
    ", the absorption can be seen in the _ iue _ spectra of sn  1987a @xcite .",
    "the difference for the mg  ii @xmath25 multiplet between having blueshifted emission and having blueshifted absorption is probably explained by saying that with circumstellar interaction the line - forming region is hotter than the inner ejecta and without circumstellar interaction it is colder .",
    "no other identifications in the uv of sn  1993j are probably possible without a more detailed analysis .",
    "we leave that to future work _",
    "sine die_.      figure  3 shows the sn  1993j spectrum that we have constructed from a 1993 september  17 _ hst _ uv - blue - optical spectrum and a 1993 september  14 ground - based spectrum taken at the mmt observatory by p.  challis and c.  s.  j.  pun .",
    "we will call the combined spectrum the 1993 september 15.5 spectrum : thus it comes from about 151  days after uvoir bolometric maximum light and 171  days after explosion .",
    "both component spectra were obtained as part of the sins program and neither have been published before ( ( * ? ? ? * for the _ hst _ spectrum ) ; ( * ? ? ? * for the mmt spectrum ) ) .",
    "the _ hst _",
    "spectrum has not been given a definitive flux calibration @xcite .",
    "the two spectra agreed well in shape in the region @xmath96@xmath97 , and so we simply and joined them at @xmath98  cutting off the overlapping ends .",
    "the ground - based spectrum had to be scaled by a factor of @xmath99 .",
    "the supernova at the time of this spectrum is clearly in the nebular phase because of the strong optical / near - ir emission lines .",
    "the line identifications for the 3 strongest emission lines in the optical / near - ir are based on analysis of @xcite for a 1993 august  15 sn  1993j spectrum : the extrapolation of the identifications to 1993",
    "september 15.5 is reliable because these lines are strong , persistent , and well identified in other hdcc supernovae .",
    "the actual lines are the forbidden multiplet [ o i ] @xmath100 which is a resonance multiplet ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and the forbidden multiplet [ ca ii ] @xmath101 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and , again , the ca  ii ir triplet .",
    "the absorption with minimum at @xmath102  is caused by ca  ii  h&k lines ( the resonance multiplet ca  ii @xmath81 ) .",
    "the line velocity of the ca  ii  h&k lines is @xmath103 .",
    "there is no obvious strong emission feature associated with these lines . evidently , the ca  ii  h&k lines are optically thick and strongly trap photons in the spatial resonance regions of the lines .",
    "the trapping process is as follows .",
    "as photons are propagating through the supernova atmosphere , they redshift into resonance with the lines in some location ( i.e. , a resonance region ) and are absorbed and then resonantly emitted , but can not easily redshift out of resonance because of continually being re - absorbed and re - emitted in the lines after traveling and redshifting very little .",
    "so there are many re - absorptions and re - emissions .",
    "much of the photon energy ultimately escapes by being emitted by the ca  ii ir triplet which shares the same upper level with the ca  ii h&k lines ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : this energy leak mostly suppresses the emission feature of the ca  ii  h&k lines . the lower level of the ca  ii ir triplet is metastable and the upper level of the forbidden multiplet [ ca ii ] @xmath101 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "collisions are weak in the nebular phase due to low density , and hence the transitions from the metastable lower level of the ca  ii ir triplet to the ground level become increasingly radiative which results in the strong [ ca ii ] @xmath101 emission feature .",
    "the process of energy from absorption in the ca  ii h&k lines being emitted in other redder lines is an example of fluorescence ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ".    in the uv , the blueshifted mg  ii @xmath25 emission line now peaks at @xmath104  which corresponds to doppler blueshift velocity of @xmath105 and has now increased in height to about @xmath106 times the continuum level .",
    "its overall shape , however , is much the same as earlier on 1993 april 15 ( see fig .  2 in   3.2 and fig .  5 in ",
    "the peak centered at @xmath107  may be at least in part the emission feature of the semi - forbidden line mg i ] @xmath108 ( e.g. , @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the emission is relatively weak , but @xcite predict mg i ] @xmath108 as a weak emission line ( seemingly blended with some other emission line ) for 1993 august  15 and believe the mg i ] @xmath108 emission should become stronger with time . if the @xmath107  emission is primarily mg i ] @xmath108 , then the line has been doppler blueshifted by velocity @xmath109 .",
    "the 1993  november 15.5 spectrum in figure  4 ( see   3.4 ) shows a stronger emission peaking at @xmath110  and if this is caused by mg i ] @xmath108 , then it has been doppler blueshifted by velocity @xmath111 .",
    "the 1993  november 15.5 spectrum emission peaking at @xmath110 , however , has a secondary peak at almost exactly @xmath112 .",
    "this suggests that the main peak is caused by some other line in emission and not mg i ] @xmath108 . in order for the @xmath107  and @xmath110  emissions to be primarily mg i ] @xmath108",
    ", there must be some blueshifting asymmetry in the ejecta or some significant continuum optical depth .",
    "( a significant continuum optical depth would tend to suppress the red side of an emission line . )",
    "we note that the [ o i ] @xmath113 emission peaks at @xmath114  ( corresponding to a doppler redshift velocity of @xmath115 ) in the 1993  september 15.5 spectrum and at @xmath116  ( corresponding to virtually no doppler shift at all ) in the 1993  november 15.5 spectrum .",
    "the lack of significant shifts in the [ o i ] @xmath113 emission peaks argues for symmetric ejecta and optically thin ejecta in the optical .",
    "there is the complication , however , that the blue side of the optical generally has more significant weak lines than the red side of the optical and may persist being somewhat optically thick longer than the red side due to a quasi - continuum opacity of the weak lines .",
    "the upshot of all these considerations is that we draw no conclusion about the identities of the @xmath107  and @xmath110  emissions .",
    "these emissions may be blueshifted mg i ] @xmath108 or mg i ] @xmath108 blended with some other emission line , but more analysis is needed .",
    "( the case for mg i ] @xmath108 identification in the optical is different than for the mg  ii @xmath25 identification in the uv .",
    "we expect the nebular - phase ejecta to be optically thin or relatively optically thin in the optical and optically thick in the uv at least for a long time into the nebular phase .",
    "the uv optical thickness in the nebular phase is the cause of the blueshift of the mg  ii @xmath25 emission as we argued in   3.2 . )",
    "we note that the strong emission features in the optical / near - ir in both versions of the spectrum , but particularly in the locally - normalized version , seem to be adjacent to absorptions",
    ". there may be real strong absorptions at these locations from lines that are optically thick , but a synthetic spectrum analysis is probably needed to show that .",
    "the locally - normalized spectra for the nebular phase , however , may be a bit deceptive",
    ". the process of local normalization will tend to make emission features sit in troughs that are below 1 , and thus create the appearance of adjacent absorptions .",
    "in reality , the emission lines may just be added to a fairly smooth continuum that holds across the spectrum ( or at least the optical / ir spectrum ) and there may be no significant absorptions ( at least in the optical / ir spectrum ) .",
    "so in regard to nebular spectra , local normalization as we have implemented it may not be ideal in that it probably can not scale a real physical nebular continuum to nearly 1 at least in the vicinity of strong emission features .",
    "on the other hand , there may be no well - defined physical continuum level in which case applying local normalization does not obviously worsen the appearance of the spectra for analysis .",
    "our arguments for local normalization based on avoiding dealing with uncertain reddening and calibration error (   [ introduction ] ) are still valid for the nebular phase .",
    "figure  3 and figure  4 (   3.4 ) do show that local normalization even in the nebular phase will , of course , tend to cause the average flux level to be near 1 .    for the photospheric phase ,",
    "local normalization is probably much better at setting the phyisical continuum to near 1 than for the nebular phase .",
    "first , there is a significant real physical continuum in the spectrum ( although it is probably almost never a pure blackbody continuum ) which is not necessarily the case in the nebular phase .",
    "second , the smoothing of the p  cygni absorptions and emissions to create the large - scale smoothed spectrum is an averaging that must put the large - scale smoothed spectrum close to the physical continuum level .",
    "the locally - normalized spectrum will then have a continuum close to 1 .",
    "figure  4 shows the sn  1993j spectrum that we have constructed from a 1993 november  14 _ hst _ uv - blue - optical spectrum and a 1993 november  17 lick observatory ground - based spectrum both of which were obtained as part of the sins program .",
    "the _ hst _",
    "spectrum has not been published before @xcite ; the lick spectrum was taken by a.v .",
    "filippenko and t.  matheson @xcite .",
    "we will call the combined spectrum the 1993 november 15.5 spectrum : thus it comes from about 212  days after uvoir bolometric maximum light and 232  days after explosion .",
    "the _ hst _",
    "spectrum has not been given a definitive flux calibration @xcite and the ground - based spectrum is not absolutely calibrated , although its relative calibration is excellent @xcite .",
    "the two spectra agree well in shape in the overlap region @xmath76@xmath97 , and so we simply joined them at @xmath117  cutting off the overlapping ends . the ground - based spectrum , after converting it from the frequency representation to the wavelength representation , had to be scaled by a factor of @xmath118 to account for overall calibration differences and for unit transformation .",
    "the _ hst _",
    "spectrum blueward of @xmath119  seems to decline in a manner too steep to be physically real and we do not trust it ( nor the locally - normalized spectrum we derive from it ) there .    qualitatively ,",
    "the 1993 november 15.5 spectrum is much like the 1993 september 15.5 spectrum .",
    "( we are relying on the locally - normalized spectra for comparisons . )",
    "the mg  ii @xmath25 , [ o i ] @xmath100 , and [ ca ii ] @xmath101 emissions have increased in height relative to the continuum and the ca  ii ir triplet emission has decreased .",
    "the peak of the mg  ii @xmath25 emission is at @xmath104  just as in the 1993 september 15.5 spectrum .",
    "the emission at peaking at @xmath107  ( whatever it may be ) in the 1993 september 15.5 spectrum has increased and shifted so that it now peaks at @xmath110 .",
    "( see the discussion of this emission feature in   3.3 . )",
    "the ca  ii h&k absorption is not as deep as in the 1993 september 15.5 spectrum .    in figure  5 , we show the time development of mg  ii @xmath25 emission in locally - normalized spectra .",
    "although the emission line scales up with time , its appearance is remarkably stable . our definition of @xmath94  as the characteristic blue edge of the mg  ii @xmath25 emission ( with corresponding doppler blueshift velocity @xmath95 ; see ",
    "3.2 ) is valid for all the phases we display .",
    "the behavior of the spectra in the region @xmath120@xmath121  is not very certain since we have just omitted wavelength points that correspond to the interstellar mg  ii @xmath25 lines which arise from gas clouds along the line of sight to the supernova .",
    "such clouds , identified from interstellar lines of various ions , have heliocentric velocities in the range from about @xmath122 to @xmath123 @xcite . later _ hst _",
    "uv spectra of sn  1993j from day  @xmath124 to about day  @xmath125 relative uvoir bolometric maximum light show the mg  ii @xmath25 emission as box - like in appearance and more symmetrical about the rest - frame line - center wavelength than in the spectra we show @xcite .",
    "the mg  ii @xmath25 emission in the later spectra have a doppler velocity full - width of @xmath126 .",
    "it seems that the circumstellar interaction back - heating persists through the later phases , but the optical depth through the ejecta has greatly diminished , and thus occultation of the far side of the mg  ii @xmath25 shell has greatly decreased .",
    "the flattish top of the late mg  ii @xmath25 emission line is characteristic of emission lines from expanding , optically thin shells as first shown by @xcite : other references for the flat - top emission from expanding shells are @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the main goal of local normalization is to eliminate variations in the continuum in comparing spectra .",
    "implicit in this goal is the requirement that locally - normalized spectra be virtually independent of the continuum shape .",
    "for example , if this were not the case , intrinsic spectra that were identical , but with observed continuums distorted in various ways , could be transformed to different locally - normalized spectra and one would reach the false conclusion that the intrinsic spectra were not identical . to test local normalization for continuum independence , we have weighted each of the four original spectra in this section by @xmath127 ( effectively converting the spectra to the @xmath128 representation ) and @xmath129 and then locally normalized these weighted spectra and compared them to each other and the unweighted locally - normalized spectra .    for each original spectrum , a plot ( using an expanded scale compared to that spectrum s plot in fig .",
    "14 ) of the corresponding locally - normalized spectra calculated with and without weights shows exact overlap to the eye of the locally - normalized spectra . on the other hand , the unlogged locally - normalized spectrum ( see   2.2 ) corresponding to an original spectrum was distinct from the other locally - normalized spectra for that original spectrum when plotted : the unlogged locally - normalized spectrum was generally a bit lower than the other locally - normalized spectra .    as mentioned in the introduction (   1 )",
    ", diff1 is essentially a mean relative difference between the line patterns of two spectra , and thus the reader can roughly understand diff1 values before seeing the precise formula ( which is given below in ",
    "the diff1 values for spectrum pairs consisting of the locally - normalized weighted spectra and the locally - normalized unweighted spectra ( all derived from the same original spectrum ) were of order @xmath130@xmath131 for weight @xmath127 and of order @xmath132@xmath133 for weight @xmath129 .",
    "these are very small mean relative differences . on the other hand , diff1 tests of the unlogged locally - normalized spectra with the corresponding other locally - normalized spectra gave diff1 values of order @xmath134@xmath135 which are comparable to diff1 values between locally - normalized spectra of the same supernova from phases differing by several days .",
    "we conclude that local normalization will transform continuum - distorted versions of an original spectrum to virtually the same locally - normalized spectrum .",
    "thus , local normalization is sufficiently continuum - independent to lead to valid results in comparing locally normalized spectra . on the other hand , different local normalization procedures",
    "can produce noticeably distinct locally - normalized spectra for a given original spectrum .",
    "thus , one should choose a single local normalization procedure and stick with it for valid comparisons of locally - normalized spectra .",
    "in this section , we introduce the formulae for diff1 (   4.1 ) and diff2 (   4.2 ) , show an example of two locally - normalized spectra fitted by minimizing the diff2 function value (   4.3 ) , and compare diff1 and diff2 (   4.4 ) .",
    "say @xmath136 is the locally - normalized flux at wavelength @xmath137 .",
    "let @xmath138 be the flux difference at wavelength @xmath137 .",
    "the flux difference is the relative difference of the line pattern from the continuum for the original spectrum or the absolute difference of the line pattern for the locally - normalized spectrum .",
    "we define diff1 between a spectrum  1 and a spectrum  2 by the formula @xmath139 where the subscripts 1 and 2 indicate the spectrum and @xmath140 is the total number of wavelength points in the summation .",
    "( the wavelength points are equally spaced in logarithmic wavelength : see below . )",
    "the @xmath141 is a small number that we set to @xmath142 .",
    "this is typically the smallest number that added to 1 that creates a number significantly different from 1 with fortran  95 double precision arithmetic .",
    "the @xmath141 prevents arithmetic exceptions , but is only very rarely invoked .    from equation",
    "( 12 ) , it is clear why we describe diff1 as the mean relative difference in line pattern between two spectra ( see    1 and  3.5 ) .",
    "if @xmath143 , the spectra will be much alike .",
    "if @xmath144 , the spectra will be substantially different .",
    "for example , if the flux differences ( i.e. , the @xmath145 s ) for one spectrum in a diff1 test were almost all only a small fraction of those for the other spectrum ( i.e. , one spectrum had much weaker lines than the other ) , the diff1 value would be close to 1 .",
    "in fact , the diff1 function has an upper limit : @xmath146 and thus @xmath147 we would not usually expect a diff1 value approaching 2 since that would mean that two input locally - normalized spectra had line patterns that were nearly mirror images of each other about the continuum level : i.e. , the line patterns would be strongly anticorrelated .",
    "in fact , any diff1 values well over 1 would show some anticorrelation between spectrum line patterns .",
    "there is no strong physical reason to expect much anticorrelation of supernova spectrum line patterns , but some accidental anticorrelation should happen , and so some diff1 values over well over 1 may occur when applying diff1 to heterogeneous samples of spectra .",
    "we have subjected the set of all possible spectrum pairs drawn from the sample of hdcc supernovae described in   5 to the diff1 test .",
    "( there are 17 supernovae , 168 spectra , and 27588 valid spectrum pair tests : some possible pair tests are excluded as invalid by the validity criterion discussed below . ) the resulting distribution of diff1 values has mean , standard deviation , minimum value , and maximum value of , respectively , 0.865 , 0.137 , 0.244 , and 1.320 ( where we have reported more digits than are significant to allow for numerical consistency checks ) . that the mean 0.865 is so close to 1 ( actually within @xmath148 of 1 ) shows that spectrum pairs on average are not highly similar .",
    "this is understandable since the spectra come from a heterogeneous sample of supernovae and from many phases : the spectrum of a supernova can evolve significantly with phase .",
    "the standard deviation value shows that spectrum pairs significantly ( i.e. , @xmath148 ) more alike than average will have diff1 values of @xmath149 .",
    "the minimum 0.244 suggests that even spectra from the same supernova at close to the same phase vary from each other significantly .",
    "note we have excluded redundant spectra from the same phase period ( which we usually set to being 1 day ) for a supernova ( as described in ",
    "5.1 ) since those should be nearly identical to the included spectrum aside from observational error .",
    "as we expected , the maximum diff1 value is much less than 2 .",
    "we note that if we used @xmath136 s in the formula for diff1 ( i.e. , eq .",
    "( 12 ) ) instead of @xmath145 s ( which would only change denominators , in fact ) , we would have lessened the sensitivity to line patterns .",
    "for example , type  iib and type  ic  hypernovae at early phases ( i.e. , well before maximum light ) both have relatively weak lines in the optical . in the case of type  iib supernovae , this is because they have hydrogen - dominated atmospheres that when hot ( i.e. , over of order @xmath150k ) show weak lines .",
    "( why the lines should be as weak as they are in early type  iib spectra has not yet been fully elucidated theoretically by nlte analysis @xcite . )",
    "type  ic hypernovae show weak lines at early times because they are hot ( which tends to cause weak optical lines also in cases with little or no hydrogen ) and because their velocity structure is very fast giving them extremely broad p - cygni lines with line velocities of up to @xmath151 and perhaps higher ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the stretching out of p - cygni lines by very high velocities tends to make them shallower and more overlapping .",
    "both effects tend to give line features a small vertical scale relative to the continuum .",
    "if we used @xmath136 s in the formula for diff1 instead of @xmath145 s , the diff1 values between early phase spectra of type  iib s and type  ic  hypernovae would be small even though the spectra and the supernovae are intrinsically quite different because the formula numerators would be relatively small and the formula denominators relatively large .",
    "however , the given formula for diff1 distinguishes the two types of spectra because the formula denominators become small when the lines features are small .",
    "for our calculations , we interpolated the locally - normalized spectra onto a grid of equally spaced points in ( natural ) logarithmic wavelength . for coding convenience , we chose @xmath152@xmath153 to be the zero point of the logarithmic wavelength scale .",
    "for the grid increment , we chose @xmath154 if the grid wavelengths labeled by @xmath155 are @xmath137 and we define @xmath156 , we find that @xmath157 to first order in small @xmath158 . we now see that the logarithmic wavelength increment corresponds to a relative change in wavelength for each increment of approximately @xmath159 . thus , near @xmath160 , the wavelength increment is about @xmath161 ; near @xmath162 , about @xmath163 .",
    "the doppler shift velocity corresponding to a relative wavelength increment of @xmath159 is about @xmath164 . as mentioned in   2.2 , supernova line features generally change relatively slowly over wavelength shifts corresponding to velocity changes of order @xmath39 , and thus our grid should be sufficiently fine for almost all supernova spectra . as also mentioned in   2.2 ,",
    "interstellar and telluric lines can vary on shorter wavelength scales , but these are not intrinsic to supernova spectra and could be corrected for if necessary .",
    "we only apply the diff1 test to what we call the good overlap region in logarithmic wavelength of two locally - normalized spectra . in this logarithmic wavelength region , both the spectra seem physically good . by physically good , we mean not excessively noisy and not showing unphysical behavior in a narrow wavelength band because of some calibration error .",
    "we only allow one good region for a spectrum : i.e. , we never multiple good regions for a spectrum which are separated in wavelength .",
    "this is not much of a limitation since the bad regions are usually the spectrum ends which can often be very noisy and have narrow wavelength band calibration errors .",
    "we only consider diff1 tests valid if the good overlap region in logarithmic wavelength is @xmath165 which corresponds to a good overlap region in relative wavelength of @xmath166% relative to the lower wavelength of the region .",
    "since almost all the spectra we consider are good or nearly good over the range @xmath167@xmath168(logarithmic wavelength range @xmath169 or relative wavelength range of @xmath170% relative to @xmath171 ) , almost all diff1 evaluations are considered valid .",
    "the diff2 formula is @xmath172 the only difference from equation  ( [ eq - diff1 ] ) for diff1 (   4.1 ) is the term @xmath173 in the wavelength subscript of one of the flux differences ( defined by eq .",
    "( [ eq - flux - difference ] ) in ",
    "this @xmath173 is chosen to minimize the diff2 function value : this minimized value is the diff2 value itself .",
    "we allow up and down ( natural ) logarithmic wavelength shifts of only up to @xmath174 .",
    "thus , we allow up and down relative wavelength shifts of only about @xmath175% .",
    "given that the logarithmic wavelength grid increment is @xmath176 ( see   4.1 , eq .",
    "( [ eq - log - lambda - grid - increment ] ) ) , it follows that we allow @xmath173 to vary up and down from zero by @xmath177 .",
    "if the minimizing value of @xmath173 turns out to be one of the @xmath173 limits @xmath178 or @xmath179 , then we consider the test invalid since the true minimizing value of @xmath173 is almost certainly beyond the @xmath173 limits .",
    "this occasionally happens and indicates the tested spectra are likely not very similar and likely can not be made to look similar by shifting them relative to each other in logarithmic wavelength : if they can , the resemblance is likely accidental .",
    "also we only consider diff2 tests valid if the good overlap region in logarithmic wavelength ( which is specified in   4.1 ) when the locally - normalized spectra are not relatively shifted ( i.e. , when @xmath180 ) is @xmath165 which corresponds to a good overlap region in relative wavelength of @xmath166% relative to the lower wavelength of the region .",
    "this is the same overlap criterion for validity as used for the diff1 test and , as mentioned in ",
    "4.1 , is almost always met for spectra we consider .    by its nature , @xmath181 for any spectrum pair .",
    "thus , diff2 has an upper limit of 2 like diff1 ( see   4.1 ) .",
    "but it is even less likely for diff2 than for diff1 that any value will approach 2 . to do that",
    "would imply that the locally - normalized spectra were anticorrelated no matter how one shifted them over the allowed shifting range .",
    "since even accidental anticorrelations of spectra in a large sample will tend to be avoided by the shifting , we do not expect diff2 values that are well over 1 .",
    "we have subjected the set of all possible spectrum pairs drawn from the sample of hdcc supernovae described in   5 to the diff2 test .",
    "( there are 17 supernovae , 168 spectra , and 25172 valid spectrum pair tests : some possible pair tests are excluded as invalid by the validity criteria discussed above . ) the resulting distribution of diff2 values has mean , standard deviation , minimum value , and maximum value of , respectively , 0.784 , 0.116 , 0.229 , and 1.131 ( where we have reported more digits than are significant to allow for numerical consistency checks ) .",
    "the mean , minimum , and maximum values are , of course , a bit smaller than the corresponding values for diff1 reported in   4.1 : all the diff2 values that go into determining these distribution characteristics are equal to or smaller than the corresponding diff1 values used to evaluate the distribution characteristics in ",
    "the standard deviation value shows that spectrum pairs significantly ( i.e. , @xmath148 ) more alike than average will have diff2 values of @xmath182 .",
    "the maximum value as expected is not well over 1 .",
    "the rationale for diff2 is as follows .",
    "the structure of p - cygni line profiles in supernovae is correlated with the velocity structure of the ejecta since that velocity structure determines the doppler shifts of line features .",
    "most noticeably , weak , unblended lines in the photospheric phase tend to have their absorption features reach a minimum at a wavelength shift corresponding to the photospheric velocity ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "all parts of the absorption feature have blueshifts that are usually correlated with the photospheric velocity in the sense that the greater the photospheric velocity , the greater the blueshift of each part of the absorption feature : this is just because the whole velocity structure of the line - forming region at any phase tends to be correlated with the photospheric velocity at that phase .",
    "in comparing photospheric spectra for similar supernovae , there is often some difference in the width scale of line profiles , particularly the absorption features , attributable to some difference in the velocity structure .",
    "the difference may be intrinsic to the supernovae : one supernova may just have layers that move faster than the corresponding layers in the other supernova at the same phase . on the other hand",
    ", the difference may just be a matter of phase since the photosphere recedes into the ejecta as time passes because the overall optical depth of the supernova falls .",
    "of course , intrinsic and phase differences in velocity structure are usually both present to one degree or another .",
    "the eye can usually discern similar line profile patterns despite differing velocity structure .",
    "however , the diff1 test may not pick out a striking similarity in two spectra seen by the eye because doppler - shift - caused offsets of line profiles between the two spectra may lead to large contributions to the diff1 value .",
    "one can imagine compensating for the different velocity structures by a wavelength varying shift , but this seems too complex for practical use .",
    "since the blueshifted absorption features are often larger than the emission features ( necessarily the case if the lines are pure scattering ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ) , a general wavelength shift that tends to align the absorption features may bring out similarities both to the eye and in the diff2 test ( i.e. , by minimizing the diff2 function value ) .",
    "@xcite showed that general shifts were useful in bringing out similarities .",
    "we expect that the diff2 test shift will usually minimize the diff2 function value by tending to align blueshifted absorption features in photospheric phase spectra .    in the nebular phase ,",
    "the emission lines tend to be symmetric about the rest - frame line - center wavelength .",
    "if this is the case , the minimizing shift of the diff2 test is likely to be small or zero and diff2 will tend to reduce to diff1 .",
    "however , if the emission peaks of one or both locally - normalized spectra are offset from the line - center wavelengths because of some asymmetry in the ejecta , then the diff2 test will compensate for that and again bring out similarities that could be missed by the diff1 test .    because diff2 s logarithmic wavelength shift will often compensate for doppler shifts caused by differences in velocity structure , it is useful to define a corresponding doppler shift velocity parameter @xmath183 characteristic of the difference in velocity scale between two locally - normalized spectra .",
    "we first preliminarily define @xmath183 for a wavelength shift @xmath184 from an initial wavelength @xmath185 using the 1st order doppler formula ( eq .  ( [ eq - doppler - formula ] ) in   2.2 , _",
    "mutatis mutandis _ ) : thus we have @xmath186 where we define positive velocities as giving redshifts .",
    "say the corresponding logarithmic wavelength shift is @xmath187 and recall we only allow logarithmic wavelength shifts of up to @xmath174 .",
    "the allowed logarithmic wavelength shifts are sufficiently small that we can then make the approximation @xmath188 we now give the final definition for @xmath183 by combining equations  ( [ eq - velocity - param-1st ] ) and  ( [ eq - velocity - param-2nd ] ) : @xmath189      figure  6 shows an example of two locally - normalized spectra with the dotted - line spectrum given the logarithmic wavelength shift that minimizes the diff2 function value for the two spectra .",
    "the solid - line spectrum is the sn  1993j 1993 april  15 spectrum ( which comes from about 2  days before uvoir bolometric maximum light ) shown in figure  2 (   3.2 ) and the dotted - line spectrum is the sn  1987k 1987 august  9 spectrum @xcite ( which comes from about 9  days after a red - optical maximum light ) . in this case ,",
    "@xmath190 and @xmath191 and the doppler shift velocity parameter ( see definition eq .",
    "( [ eq - velocity - param ] ) in   4.2 )",
    "corresponding to diff2 s logarithmic wavelength shift has absolute value @xmath192 . in this case ,",
    "diff2 s logarithmic wavelength shift is a blueshift when applied to the sn  1987k spectrum : as noted above we have given this shift to the sn  1987k spectrum in figure  6 .",
    "the change from diff1 to diff2 and the doppler shift velocity parameter are not large in this case and , in fact , the eye can not detect any overall improvement in fit in going from a plot without the shift to the plot with it ( i.e. , fig .",
    "the small change between the diff1 and diff2 and the small shift is to be expected .",
    "first , the spectra both come from type  iib supernovae .",
    "second , out of our current and preliminary sample of hydrogen - deficient spectra ( see   5 ) , the sn  1987k 1987 august  9 spectrum is the closest match according to diff2 to the sn  1993j 1993 april  15 spectrum , except for other spectra from sn  1993j that come from phases close to 1993 april  15 . according to diff1 , it is only the second closest non - sn-1993j match : the sn  1987k 1987 august  7 spectrum is slightly closer with @xmath193 .",
    "the phase ( day  @xmath194 ) of the sn  1993j spectrum is relative to the well determined uvoir bolometric maximum light ( see    3 and  3.2 ) .",
    "the phase ( day  @xmath195 ) of the sn  1987k spectrum is relative to a red - optical maximum that is estimated to be 1987 july  31 with an uncertainty of @xmath196  days @xcite . supernova sn",
    "1993j was a particularly well - observed supernova , and hence our precise knowledge of its phase .",
    "supernova sn",
    "1987k was only moderately well - observed , and hence our uncertainty about its phase and also the light curve from which the phase was determined .",
    "the data available for sn  1987k is typical for the supernovae that must dominate any current sample of supernovae for statistical spectral analysis .",
    "the identifications in figure  6 are the same as in figure  2 (   3.2 ) , except for the residual telluric absorption lines in the sn  1987k spectrum @xcite .",
    "the region from the blue side of the telluric lines to the red end of the sn  1987k spectrum were excluded from the evaluation of diff1/2 : i.e. , this region was not part of the good overlap region in logarithmic wavelength for the spectrum pair (    4.1 and  4.2 ) .",
    "both diff1 and diff2 measure the physical similarity of line formation , and thus of supernovae .",
    "diff1 puts more weight on overall physical similarity of the supernovae than diff2 because the diff2 shift in logarithmic wavelength compensates somewhat for some physical distinction in the supernovae .",
    "a spectrum pair with very small diff1 value may well come from nearly identical supernovae at nearly the same phase . on the other hand ,",
    "a spectrum pair with a very small diff2 value , but not a small diff1 value , may well come from supernovae that are in some ways physically alike , but are physically distinct in some other ways .",
    "the most obvious physical distinction that the logarithmic wavelength shift in the diff2 test can compensate for is in velocity structure : the distinction is caused either by an intrinsic difference or a phase difference .",
    "another possible distinction is in viewing direction for supernovae that are asymmetric .",
    "note that asymmetric supernovae even if identical would have different spectral evolution depending on viewing angle .",
    "there is , in fact , considerable evidence from supernova polarimetry and spectropolarimetry for asymmetry in core - collapse supernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "one important kind of asymmetry can be parameterized by a major - to - minor axis ratio for characteristic orthogonal axes perpendicular to the line of sight .",
    "spectropolarimetric observations suggest that this axis ratio can vary from 1 to 2 or more ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "for example , the type  iib supernovae sn  1993j and spectropolarimetric data suggest an axis ratio of @xmath197 for both these supernovae @xcite . there are data that suggest , but with considerable uncertainty , that asymmetry increases with decreasing hydrogen envelope mass @xcite .",
    "another kind of asymmetry in core - collapse supernovae , that of a jet ( or bipolar jets ) emerging from the main part of the ejecta , is suggested by the spectropolarimetry of type  ic hypernova @xcite .",
    "type  ia supernovae also show polarization in some cases : the polarization may arise from clumps in the ejecta ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "because of the use of local normalization , both diff1 and diff2 tests are useful for studying supernovae which frequently have uncertain continua .",
    "we are beginning a project of comparative analysis of the spectra of hdcc supernovae ( i.e. , hydrogen - deficient core - collapse supernovae of types iib , ib , ic , and ic hypernovae : see   [ introduction ] ) that will include a statistical analysis of the spectra as well a spectral modeling using the parameterized spectrum - synthesis code synow ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "we note that types iib , ib , and ic seem to be a sequence of decreasing hydrogen and helium in the supernova ejecta .",
    "type  ib supernovae have conspicuous helium lines , but not conspicuous hydrogen lines .",
    "type iib supernovae have conspicuous , but weak hydrogen lines and resemble type  ib supernovae .",
    "type  ic supernovae lack conspicuous hydrogen lines and conspicuous helium lines . as mentioned in the   [ introduction ]",
    ", type  ic hypernovae are particularly energetic type  ic supernovae that in some cases are associated with grbs : e.g. , with ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "all the core - collapse supernovae lack the strong si  ii  @xmath2 line that characterizes type  ia supernovae .",
    "the spectral classification of supernovae is well reviewed by @xcite , but note that this paper precedes the discovery of type  ic hypernovae .",
    "we need to make clear that the hdcc supernova types are not completely distinct and the determination of whether particular lines are conspicuous or not is sometimes ambiguous .",
    "for example , relatively inconspicuous hydrogen lines do seem to be present in type  ib supernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and so drawing the line between type  iib s and type  ib s can not always be clear .",
    "likewise there is sometimes difficulty in distinguishing type  ib s from type  ic s and some supernovae that can not be clearly set in either category are often classified as type  ibc supernovae . on the other hand ,",
    "the work of @xcite shows that the distinction between type  ib s and type  ic s is strong enough to continue requiring the two types rather than a single merged type . to undertake the hdcc supernova analysis project",
    ", we are assembling hdcc supernova spectra in html files in supernova directories at suspend ( see   1 ) under the heading _",
    "supernovae by epoch_. the spectrum files have header information about the spectra and the supernovae they come from .",
    "plots of the spectra in original form and locally - normalized form are also given in the headers .",
    "the original spectra follow the header in two - column format : the columns being wavelength and flux .",
    "the locally - normalized spectra are given in the dif subdirectories of the supernova directories .",
    "a list of the spectra are currently in html files ( including those spectra from non - hdcc supernovae ) can be found under the heading _ lists _ at suspend .    at present , we are at a very early stage in the project and have not assembled many of the spectra available for hdcc supernovae nor determined the best way to proceed with our statistical analysis .",
    "however , to illustrate the use of diff1 and diff2 , we present some preliminary results .",
    "table  [ table1 ] gives some statistics on the hdcc supernovae and spectra we have assembled so far in suspend ( see   1 ) .",
    "as one can see from the table , there are currently 17 supernovae and 168 spectra in the sample .",
    "the supernovae include the prototype type  ib supernovae and l @xcite and the well - observed type  ic s @xcite and prototypes .",
    "( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the peculiar type  ibc ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is included as well : this supernova had two observed maxima , had a rise time of about 40  days to the second and main optical maximum ( typical type ib / c rise times are of order 20  days ) , and was unusually luminous .",
    "( supernovae also have a near - explosion maximum light that is almost never observed , and so usually unmentioned .",
    "this is not the maximum light we refer to here as the first maximum light of sn  2005bf . )",
    "sn  2005bf also made a transition from type  ic to type  ib behavior in the period from about day  @xmath198 to about day  @xmath199 relative to the ( main ) optical maximum ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) : because of this transition , sn  2005bf is classified as a type  ibc .",
    "only two type  iib supernovae have been included so far : the already discussed prototype sn  1987k (   4.3 ; @xcite ) and the very well - observed sn  1993j (   3 and   4.3 ; e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "three type  ic hypernovae are included : ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , sn  1998bw ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and sn  2002ap ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "also included are less famous hdcc supernovae observed by @xcite and others . in the calculations described below , we included only one spectrum for each phase period ( which we usually set to being 1 day ) from each supernova .",
    "the other spectra for that phase period are redundant since they should be nearly identical to the included spectrum aside from observational error .",
    "the spectrum we included is the one we deem to be best : this is usually because of broader wavelength coverage .    in an automated fashion , we have calculated diff1 and diff2 for all supernova spectrum pairs in the sample : these spectrum pair diff1/2 values can be found tabulated at suspend under the heading _",
    "lists_. for each spectrum , there is a table listing all other spectra in order of increasing diff1/2 values relative to it .",
    "these tables are updated as more supernovae and spectra are added to the sample .",
    "we have excluded from the analysis below and in ",
    "5.2 those diff1 and diff2 values deemed invalid by the rules discussed in    4.1 and  4.2 .",
    "as well as ordering spectra in order of likeness using diff1/2 values , we want some way to order supernovae in order of likeness . as a preliminary method",
    ", for any two supernovae we calculate all ( valid ) diff1/2 values between spectrum pairs with one of the pair coming from one supernova and the other from the other supernova : i.e. , we calculate the non - self spectrum pair diff1/2 values .",
    "the smallest of these diff1/2 values we call the supernova pair diff1/2 value .",
    "the rationale for the definition for supernova pair diff1/2 value is as follows .",
    "the spectral phase coverage for all supernovae is incomplete ( although for some the coverage is very good ) and rarely are both supernovae covered at a common phase to within a day : often coverage at even a nearly common phase is lacking . also phase measured from a time zero set at maximum light ( which is how we define phase following a common convention ) is itself uncertain .",
    "ideally , one would like to use an accurate uvoir bolometric maximum light as time zero for supernova phase .",
    "we do that when an accurate uvoir bolometric maximum light is available ( which is rarely ) .",
    "usually , however , we must use a substitute which is often some optical broad - band maximum light .",
    "these broad - band maxima usually happen within a few days of uvoir bolometric maximum light and have some uncertainty . in some cases ,",
    "all we can use as a substitute is what can be loosely called optical maximum light which is a fiducial time within a few days of when exact uvoir bolometric maximum light probably occurs . and in some of these cases , the estimate of optical maximum light is just the day of discovery : supernovae tend to be discovered near or at optical maximum light since that is when they are most readily discoverable because , of course , they are brightest or nearly brightest in all optical bands at optical maximum light .",
    "( throughout the rest of this section we usually do not specify the kind of maximum light we use to set the phase zero point .",
    "we usually just refer to all kinds of maximum light as maximum light without qualification . ) by choosing the smallest diff1/2 value out of all the non - self spectrum pair values for the supernova pair diff1/2 value , we hope to have partially avoided the problems of incomplete spectral phase coverage and inaccurate phase measured from uvoir bolometric maximum light .",
    "we assume that the intrinsic likeness of each supernova pair is well measured by their closest observed spectral approach to each other : i.e. , what we call the supernova pair diff1/2 value . obviously ,",
    "because of the incomplete phase coverage , the closest observed spectrum approach may only give a lower limit on likeness . for two supernovae that are actually much alike with at least one having good phase coverage ,",
    "the closest spectrum approach is probably for the spectrum pair that has the least relative phase difference where in this case phase is measured relative to explosion .",
    "( as supernovae evolve from time zero at explosion , their relative rate of spectral evolution tends to be more constant than their absolute rate of spectral evolution . ) for two supernovae that are not much alike or that both have poor phase coverage , the closest spectrum approach may not occur for the spectrum pair that has the least or even small relative phase difference .",
    "there are , in fact , cases where two supernovae have a relatively small supernova pair diff1/2 value and yet are in some respects quite different .",
    "for example , the day  @xmath200 ( relative to @xmath48 maximum ) spectrum of type  ibc @xcite is very similar to the day  @xmath201 ( relative to uvoir bolometric maximum light ) spectrum of type  ibc sn  2005bf @xcite .",
    "figure  10 of @xcite shows overlapping locally - normalized versions of these spectra : to the eye their fit is very close .",
    "( see also fig .  5 of @xcite . )",
    "the supernova pair diff1 and diff2 values are , respectively , 0.447 and 0.442 : these are quite small diff1/2 values for spectra from different supernovae as our experience shows .",
    "although sn  1999ex and sn  2005bf are both type  ibc supernovae , they are quite different in some respects : e.g. , rise time to optical maximum : probably of order 20  days for sn  1999ex @xcite and about 40  days to the second and main optical maximum , as mentioned above , for sn  2005bf . also the two closely matching spectra come from very different phases which would not be true if the supernovae were really very much alike : the most closely matching spectra would then tend to come from nearly the same phase .",
    "thus , it is clear that our assumption of intrinsic supernova likeness being well measured by the supernova diff1/2 pair is not always valid . however , since our analysis here is preliminary , we leave the search for a better measure of supernova likeness to future work _",
    "sine die_.    the tables giving the spectrum pair diff1/2 values at suspend ( which altogether are quite lengthy ) are preceded by tables of supernova pair diff1/2 values . for each supernova",
    "there is a table listing all other supernovae in order of increasing supernova pair diff1/2 values relative it .",
    "since this paper is just a beginning in our project of statistical analysis of hdcc supernova spectra , we will not fully discuss the significance of either the tabulated supernova or spectrum pair diff1/2 values at suspend ( see   5.1 ) .",
    "but as a preliminary investigation , we consider if the classification of hdcc supernovae into type  iib s , type ib s , type  ic s , and type  ic hypernovae is discoverable from supernova pair diff1/2 values .",
    "( supernovae classified as type  ibc are grouped with the type  ib s .",
    "there are only two of these in the current sample : sn  1999ex @xcite and sn  2005bf ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a  priori , it is not clear that the hdcc supernova types will be picked out by an analysis with diff1/2 .",
    "the types iib , ib , and ic , and , in part , the type  ic hypernova are characterized by particular lines .",
    "diff1/2 measures overall differences between spectra .    for the preliminary investigation",
    ", we have calculated the mean supernova pair diff1/2 values between supernovae of different types ( the cross - type means ) and the mean supernova pair diff1/2 values between supernovae of the same type ( the self - type means ) .",
    "we have also calculated the estimated standard deviations of the distributions of the supernova pair diff1/2 values about the type means using the ordinary standard deviation formula with the correction for using the mean of the sample ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the standard deviation for the type  iib self - type mean is assigned a zero value since there are only two type  iib s in the current sample , and thus only one supernova pair diff1/2 value : the standard deviation of the sample is zero ; that of the distribution is unknown .",
    "since hdcc supernovae tend to look increasingly alike as time from explosion ( i.e. , phase ) increases , we have repeated the diff1/2 calculations including only supernova pair diff1/2 values obtained from spectra that are both from phases less than 10  days past maximum light .",
    "the supernova pair diff1/2 type means obtained in this case are phase - restricted .",
    "we were interested in seeing if phase - restricted approach would better distinguish hdcc supernovae into the standard types than the phase unrestricted approach .",
    "note that phase - unrestricted supernova pair diff1/2 values will , of course , always be smaller than or equal to their counterpart phase - restricted supernova pair diff1/2 values .",
    "( the last remark assumes that counterpart phase - restricted supernova pair diff1/2 values exist .",
    "they may not if one or both of the supernovae in the pair lack any spectra for the period allowed by the phase restriction . )",
    "the results of all the calculations are given in table  2 in the form of a type diff1/2 correlation matrix consisting of self - type means ( the diagonal elements ) and cross - type means ( the off - diagonal elements ) : phase - unrestricted diff1 values are in table  2(a ) , phase - unrestricted diff2 values are table  2(b ) , phase - restricted diff1 values are in table  2(c ) , and phase - restricted diff2 values are in table  2(d ) .",
    "the matrix is , of course , symmetric .",
    "several remarks can be made about the results in table  2 .",
    "first , none of the mean values are very small : the smallest is @xmath202 which is the type  ic hypernova diff2 self - type mean in table  2(b ) .",
    "an examination of the table of the phase - unrestricted supernova pair diff1/2 values at suspend shows that none are less @xmath134 : the smallest diff1 is @xmath203 for the pair of type  ib and type  ic ; the smallest diff2 is @xmath204 for the same pair of supernovae and obtained using the same spectrum pair . the fact that these smallest diff1/2 values are for supernovae of different assigned types shows that supernova pair diff1/2 values are not perfect in discriminating type  ib and type  ic supernovae . some of the spectrum pair diff1/2 values are significantly smaller ( some below 0.3 going down to minimum values of 0.244 for diff1 ( see   4.1 ) and 0.229 for diff2 ( see   4.2 ) ) , but those are for spectra from the same supernova usually taken close together in phase . the upper limit on the phase - unrestricted supernova pair diff1 values is 0.886 and on the phase - unrestricted supernova pair diff2 values is 0.809 .",
    "these upper limits were both for the supernova pair of type  ic and type  ib , but not using the same spectrum pair .",
    "the supernovae of this pair are not much alike in the phases for which spectra are available .",
    "second , a mean diff2 value is always less than or equal to the corresponding mean diff1 value as it must be according to our formulae (   4.1 , eq .",
    "( 12 ) and   4.2 , eq .",
    "( 17 ) ) , but always by less than the standard deviation of the mean diff1 value .",
    "we have to conclude that diff2 is not finding great similarities that are being totally missed by diff1 .",
    "third , the phase - restricted mean diff1/2 values ( in table  2(c ) and table  2(d ) ) are all larger than the corresponding phase - unrestricted mean diff1/2 values ( in table  2(a ) and  ( b ) ) .",
    "this is understandable for two causes .",
    "first , hdcc supernovae are qualitatively understood to be more diverse at earlier times , and thus the phase - restricted diff1/2 values should tend to be larger .",
    "second , the incompleteness of the phase coverage of a supernova may be greatly increased by phase restriction .",
    "phase restriction reduces the chances of finding supernova pair diff1/2 values for the aforementioned supernova with another supernova with pair spectra from nearly the same phase when the spectra would tend to be most alike if the pair supernovae were alike .",
    "the effects of the two causes could be sorted out in a more detailed analysis .",
    "it is possible for the mean diff1/2 values to be reduced by phase restriction .",
    "this would happen if phase restriction eliminated a supernova altogether from those going into calculation of the means and that supernova was sufficiently remote from other supernovae to increase phase - unrestricted mean diff1/2 values when included .",
    "this actually happened in an earlier calculation for the type  ic self - type means .",
    "the phase - restriction eliminates type  ic sn  1990aa for which no spectra from before 10  days after maximum light are currently available to us .",
    "sn  1990aa may be something of an outlier among type  ic s , and so its inclusion seems to increase the self - type mean diff1/2 values .",
    "when the sample of type  ic s was changed this reduction on phase restriction disappeared .",
    "fourth , the self - type means in any row are the smallest means in that row in all cases .",
    "this shows that a diff1/2 analysis can probably identify the standard hdcc supernova types on average .",
    "if one is given spectra from a new hdcc supernova of unknown type and uses those spectra to find mean supernova pair diff1/2 values with samples of the standard types , the smallest mean supernova pair diff1/2 value will probably be with the sample of the type to which the new hdcc supernova belongs .    in the rows for type  iib s and type  ic hypernovae ,",
    "the self - type means are smaller than the respective row cross - type means by @xmath205 in all cases and by @xmath206 in all but two cases .",
    "( the @xmath207 is the larger of the standard deviations for the two means being compared . )",
    "the two cases where difference is less than @xmath208 are for the diff1 and diff2 phase - unrestricted type  ic hypernovae cross - type with the type  ic s .",
    "overall , type  iib and type  ic hypernova are found to be quite distinct from other types .    on the other hand , in the phase - unrestricted rows for type  ib / ibc s and phase - unrestricted and phase - restricted rows for type  ic s the self - type means are smaller than the respective row cross - type means by @xmath209 .",
    "for the phase - restricted cases , the type  ib / ibc self - type means in are some cases separated by more than @xmath207 from the type  ib / ibc row cross - type means .",
    "overall , one must conclude that type  ib / ibc and type  ic are not as distinct from other types as are type  iib and type  ic hypernova .",
    "this means that type  ib / ibc and type  ic are more heterogeneous and overlap more in behavior with other types than type  iib and type  ic hypernova .",
    "recall that we introduced phase restriction to see if it would better distinguish hdcc supernovae into the standard types than the phase unrestricted approach . from the results discussed in the last two paragraphs",
    ", there is some improvement in distinguishing the types .",
    "however , this improvement is rather modest for the particular phase restriction we used : i.e. , restricting spectra used to those from before 10  days after maximum light .",
    "maybe other phase restrictions would give greater improvement .",
    "this could be investigated in future work .",
    "to finish our preliminary analysis , we note that the type  iib s and type  ic hypernovae included in the sample are all relatively well - observed supernovae , and so they suffer relatively little from lack of phase coverage .",
    "some of the type  ib / ibc s and type  ic s in the sample have poor or very poor phase coverage .",
    "( see the list of supernova spectra in html format under the heading _ lists _ at suspend for the spectra currently available for individual supernovae and the spectrum phases . )",
    "the supernova pair diff1/2 values for supernovae where both supernovae have poor phase coverage could be large even if the supernovae were very similar simply because the procedure for determining the supernova pair diff1/2 values may not be able to find spectra from nearly the same phase . in future work , we will try to remedy this deficiency in the procedure perhaps by giving lower weight in calculating mean diff1/2 values to supernova pair diff1/2 values from supernova pairs where both members of the pair have poor phase coverage or by using some quite different definition of supernova pair diff1/2 value .",
    "we have developed two tests diff1 and diff2 for measuring goodness - of - fit between two supernova spectra ( see   4.1 , eq .",
    "( 12 ) and    4.2 , eq .",
    "( 17 ) for the formulae ) .",
    "the tests rely on local normalization (   2 ) which eliminates the uncertainty in the spectrum continuum , except for contamination from extraneous sources (   1 ) .",
    "local normalization also eliminates real information stored in continuum shape .",
    "however , a basic premise of this paper is that line pattern is a much better signature of intrinsic supernova behavior than continuum shape , and so eliminating continuum shape information is not too important for spectrum comparisons (   1 ) .",
    "we have presented some examples of locally - normalized spectra for sn  1993j and given some analysis of the spectra (   3 ) .",
    "the uv parts of two of the sn  1993j spectra are hitherto unpublished _ hst _ spectra . in   3.5 , we have shown that local normalization is sufficiently continuum - independent to lead to valid results in comparing locally normalized spectra .",
    "one must , however , apply the same local normalization procedure to all original spectra in order to obtain locally - normalized spectra that can be validly compared .    as an example of the use of diff1/2 , we have used them in a preliminary statistical analysis of the spectra of hdcc ( hydrogen - deficient core - collapse ) supernovae (   5 ) .",
    "the analysis shows that standard hdcc supernova types ( iib , ib / ibc , ic , and ic  hypernova ) do form distinct groups when compared using diff1/2 (   5.2 ) .",
    "this analysis is preliminary since many available hdcc supernovae and hdcc supernova spectra are not included in the analysis sample .",
    "also many improvements in our statistical procedure are possible",
    ".    tables of all spectrum and supernova pair diff1/2 values for our sample of hdcc supernovae are available at the suspend database ( see the footnote to the abstract for the url ) under the heading _",
    "lists_. the spectra we have used are also online at suspend in two - column format under the heading _",
    "supernovae by epoch _ in supernova directories in html files along with figures of the original and locally - normalized spectra .",
    "the locally - normalized versions of the spectra themselves can be found in the dif subdirectories of the supernova directories .",
    "although hundreds of supernovae are now being discovered per year ( e.g. , 367 in 2005 and 526 in 2006 @xcite which gives discovery rates of more than 1 supernova per day ) , most of these are remote and are relatively poorly observed .",
    "their main use is as cosmological distance indicators and for the determination of supernova rates .",
    "new well - observed supernovae accumulate slowly with only a few per year .",
    "these new well - observed ones and the past well - observed ones are only relatively well - observed in most cases .",
    "phases are missing , calibrations imperfect , and frequently the reddening correction is very uncertain .",
    "thus , for the foreseeable future , statistical analyses of supernova spectra will have to rely on heterogeneous data sets for relatively few well - observed supernovae .",
    "we believe that diff1 and diff2 ( which eliminate the need for accurate continuum shape and that can , in the case of diff2 , compensate somewhat for varying phase , velocity structure , and asymmetry (   4.4 ) ) will be useful tools in statistical analyses of available spectra .",
    "another , and not - distinct , use for diff1/2 is to find for new and , perhaps , not - well - observed supernovae , well - observed supernovae that are their near - twins .",
    "then insofar as the well - observed supernovae are understood , the new supernovae will be understood .",
    "diff1/2 should also be useful in synthetic spectrum analysis of supernova spectra because , again , it eliminates the uncertain continuum of observed supernovae . certainly fitting",
    "the true continuum is one of the goals and guides in achieving a good synthetic spectrum fit to the observations .",
    "but when the fitting exercise gives a good fit to an incorrect continuum , then the fitting exercise becomes misleading .",
    "a good fit to the lines with highly realistic radiative transfer and a realistic hydrodynamic model should yield a good continuum and that should allow one to correct the observed continuum for errors in dereddening and calibration",
    ".    the future of synthetic spectrum modeling of supernovae may well be the calculation of time - dependent radiative transfer for a large collection of realistic hydrodynamic models that span many possible explosion outcomes . as time passes more models",
    "will be included in the collection and the realism of the models and the radiative transfer will be improved . eventually , almost all old and new supernovae could find a near - twin in the collection using some test like diff1/2 and will then be well understood .",
    "this ideal situation is still far off , but there is work heading toward it ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* for type  ia supernovae ) .    in future work",
    ", we plan to use diff1/2 in fuller statistical analyses of hdcc supernova spectra than that presented in this paper .",
    "these analyses will also include spectral modeling using the parameterized spectrum - synthesis code synow ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "use of diff1/2 for other supernova types is also envisaged for future work .",
    "we would like to thank all the observers who obtained the spectra used in this paper , peter challis ( who prepared the two nebular - phase _ hst _ spectra for us some time ago ) and stphane blondin for information about some of the sn  1993j spectra we present , and the referee for his / her comments .",
    "support for this work has been provided by nasa grant nag5 - 3505 and the homer l. dodge department of physics &  astronomy of the university of oklahoma .",
    "barbon , r. , benetti , s. , cappellaro , e. , patat , f. , turatto , m. , &  iijima , t. 1995 , a&as , 110 , 513 barbon , r. , ciatti , f. , rosino , l. , ortolani , s. , & rafanelli , p. 1982 , a&as , 116 , 43 baron , e. , hauschildt , p. h. , branch , d. , austin , s. , garnavich , p. , ann , h. b. , wagner , r. m. , filippenko , a. v. , matheson , t. , & liebert , j. 1995 , , 441 , 170 baron , e. , nugent , p. e. , branch , d. , &  hauschildt , p. h. 2004 , , 616 , l91 baron , e. , nugent , p. e. , branch , d. , &  hauschildt , p. h. 2005 , in 1604 - 2004 : supernovae as cosmological lighthouses , asp conference series , vol .",
    "342 , proceedings of the conference held 1519 june , 2004 in padua , italy , ed .",
    "m. turatto , s. benetti , l. zampieri , &  w. shea ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 351 , astro - ph/0409659 baron , e. , nugent , p. e. , branch , d. , hauschildt , p. h. , turatto , m. , &  cappellaro , e. 2003 , , 586 , 1199 beals , c. s. 1931 , mnras , 91 , 966 bevington , p. r. 1969 , data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences ( new york : mcgraw - hill book company ) blondin , s. 2007 , private communication blondin , s. , &  tonry , j. l. 2007 , in the multicoloured landscape of compact objects and their explosive origins , cefal , sicily , 2006 june 1124 , ed .  l.  burderi et al .",
    "( melville , new york : american institute of physics ) , in press , astro - ph/0612512 branch , d. , baron , e. , hall , n. , melakayil , m. , &  parrent , j. 2005 , pasp , 117 , 545 branch , d. , jeffery , d. j. , young , t. r. , &  baron , e. 2006a , pasp , 118 , 791 branch , d. ,  et  al .",
    "2002 , , 566 , 1005 branch , d. , et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 126 , 1489 branch , d. , et al . 2006b , pasp , 118 , 560 buta , r. j. 1982 , pasp , 94 , 578 cardelli , j. a. , clayton , g. c. , &  mathis , j. s. 1989 , apj , 345 , 245 central bureau for astronomical telegrams 2007 , ( cambridge , massachusetts : center for astrophysics ) , http://cfa-www.harvard.edu/iau/cbat.html challis , p. 1994",
    ", private communication challis , p. 2006",
    ", private communication chugai , n. n. 1988 , sov .",
    "lett . , 14(5 ) , 334 clocchiatti , a. , wheeler , j. c. , barker , e. s. , filippenko , a. v. , matheson , t. , &  liebert , j. w. 1995 , , 446 , 167 clocchiatti , a. , wheeler , j. c. , brotherton , m. s. , cochran , a. l. , wills , d. , barker , e. s. , &  turatto , m. 1996 , , 462 , 462 dessart , l. , &  hillier , d. j. 2005 , a&a , 437 , 667 filippenko , a. v. 1988 , aj , 96 , 1941 filippenko , a. v. 1997 , , 35 , 309 filippenko , a. v. 1994 , private communication filippenko , a. v. , & matheson , t. 1993 , iau circ .",
    "5787 filippenko , a. v. , porter , a. c. , & sargent , w. l. w. 1990 , aj , 100 , 1575 folatelli , g. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 641 , 1039 foley , r. j. 2003 , pasp , 115 , 1220 fransson , c. 1982 , a&a , 111 , 140 fransson , c. 1984a , a&a , 132 , 115 fransson , c. 1984b , a&a , 133 , 264 fransson , c. , benvenuti , p. , wamsteker , w. , gordon , c. , hempe , k. , reimers , d. , palumbo , g. g. c. , &  panagia , n. 1984c , a&a , 132 , 1 fransson , c. , lundqvist , p. , &  chevalier , r. a. 1996 , , 461 , 993 fransson , c. et al .",
    "2005 , , 622 , 991 freedman , w. l. , et al .",
    "1994 , , 427 , 628 galama , t. , et al .",
    "1998 , nature , 395 , 670 hamuy , m. , et al .",
    "2002 , aj , 124 , 417 harkness , r. p. , et al .",
    "1987 , , 317 , 355 harutyunyan , a. , benetti , s. , cappellaro , e. , & turatto , m. 2005 , in asp conf .",
    "342 , 16042004 : supernovae as cosmological lighthouses , ed .",
    "m.  turatto , s.  benetti , l.  zamperi , & w.  shea ( san francisco : asp ) , 258 houck , j. c. , &  fransson , c. 1996 , , 456 , 811 ines ( _ iue _ newly extracted spectra ) 2000 , the ines archive data server , version 3.0 : _ iue _ final archive ( villafranca del castillo , spain : laboratory for space astrophysics and theoretical physics ) , http://iuearc.vilspa.esa.es/ines/index2.html iwamoto , k. , et al .",
    "1998 , nature , 395 , 672 jeffery , d. j. 1993 , , 415 , 734 jeffery , d. j. , &  branch , d. 1990 , in jerusalem winter school for theoretical physics , vol .",
    "6 , supernovae , ed .",
    "j.  c.  wheeler , t.  piran , &  s.  weinberg ( singapore : world scientific ) , 149 jeffery , d. j. , et al .",
    "1994 , , 421 , l27 kawabata , k. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 580 , l39 kirshner , r.  p. , blades , j.  c. , branch , d. , chevalier , r. a. , fransson , c. , panagia , n. , wagoner , r.  v. , &  wheeler , j.  c. 1988 , _ hst _ proposal sins : the supernova intensive study , unpublished kirshner , r. p. , et al .",
    "1993 , apj , 415 , 589 lawden , d. f. 1975 , an introduction to tensor calculus and relativity ( london : chapman and hall ) leonard , d. c. , &  filippenko , a. v. 2005 , in 1604 - 2004 : supernovae as cosmological lighthouses , asp conference series , vol .  342 , proceedings of the conference held 1519 june , 2004 in padua , italy , ed .",
    "m. turatto , s. benetti , l. zampieri , &  w. shea ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 330 , astro - ph/0409659 leonard , d. c. , filippenko , a. v. , chornock , r. , & foley , r. j. 2002 , , 114 , 1333 leonard , d. c. , li , w. , filippenko , a. v. , foley , r. j. , & chornock , r. 2005 , , 632 , 450 matheson , t. , filippenko , a. v. , li , w. , leonard , d. c. , & shields , j. c. 2001 , , 121 , 1648 matheson , t. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 599 , 394 mazzali , p. a. , iwamoto , k. , nomoto , k. 2000 , , 545 , 407    mihalas , d. 1978 , stellar atmospheres , ( san francisco : w. h. freeman and company ) moore , c.  e. , &  merrill , p.  w. 1968 , in nsrds ",
    "nbs  23 , partial grotrian diagrams of astrophysical interest ( washington , dc : government printing office ) , http://www.nist.gov/srd/nsrds.htm nist ( national institute of standards and technology ) 2006 , nist atomic spectra database version 3.1.0 ( gaithersberg , maryland : nist ) , http://physics.nist.gov/physrefdata/asd/ odonnell , j. e. 1994 , apj , 422 , 158 panagia , n. et al . 1980 , mnras , 192 , 861 parrent , j. , branch , d. , troxel , m. a. , casebeer , d. , jeffery , d. j. , ketchum , w. , baron , e. serduke , f. j. d. , &  filippenko , a. v. 2007 , pasp , 119 , 135 patat , f. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 555 , 900 paturel , g. , petit , c. , prugniel , ph . , theureau , g. , rousseau , j. , brouty , m. , dubois , p. , &  cambrsy , l. 2003 , a&a , 412 , 45 , http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/ phillips , m. m. , et al .",
    "1987 , pasp , 99 , 592 pun , c. s. j. , et al .",
    "1995 , apjs , 99 , 223 qiu , y. , li , w. , qiao , q. , &  hu , j. 1999 , aj , 117 , 736 reichard , t. a. , et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 125 , 1711 richardson , d. , branch , d. , &  baron , e. 2006 , , 131 , 2233 richmond , m. w. , treffers , r. r. , filippenko , a. v. , paik , y. , leibundgut , b. , schulman , e. , & cox , c. v. 1994 , aj , 107 , 1022 ripero , j. 1993 , iau circ .",
    "5731 ruiz - lapuente , p. , kirshner , r. p. , phillips , m. m. , challis , p. m. , schmidt , b. p. , filippenko , a. v. , &  wheeler , j. c. 1995 , , 439 , 60 schlegel , d. j. , finkbeiner , d. p. , &  davis , m. 1998 , , 500 , 525 stritzinger , m. et al .",
    "2002 , aj , 124 , 2100 wamsteker , w. , rodriguez , p. m. , gonzalez , r. , sonneborn , g. , &  kirshner , r. p. 1993 , iau circ .",
    "5738 wang , l. , howell , d. a. , hflich , p. , &  wheeler , j. c. 2001 , , 550 , 1030 weiler , k. w. , sramek , r. a. , panagia , n. , van der hulst , j. m. , &  salvati , m. 1986 , , 301 , 790 wheeler , j. c. , &  benetti , s. 2000 , in allen s astrophysical quantities , 4th edition , ed .",
    "a.  n.  cox ( new york : springer - verlag ; aip ) , 451 wheeler , j. c. , et al .",
    "1993 , , 417 , l71 wiese , w. l. , smith , m. w. , &  glennon , b. m. 1966 , in nsrds ",
    "nbs  4 , atomic transition probabilities : vol .",
    "i  hydrogen through neon ( washington , dc : government printing office ) wiese , w. l. , smith , m. w. , &  miles , b. m. 1969 , in nsrds ",
    "nbs  22 , atomic transition probabilities : vol .",
    "2sodium through calcium ( washington , dc : government printing office ) woosley , s. e. , kasen , d. , blinnikov , s. , & sorokina , e. 2007 , , in press , astro - ph/0609562 woosley , s. e. , pinto , p. a. , martin , p. g. , &  weaver , t. a. 1987 , , 318 , 664     and locally - normalized representations from 1993 march 31 which is about 16  days before uvoir bolometric maximum light and about 4  days after explosion .",
    "the locally - normalized spectra in this and in other figures are obviously the ones with continuum level of about 1 .",
    "[ fig1 ] ]     and locally - normalized representations from 1993 april  15 which is about 2  days before uvoir bolometric maximum light and 18  days after explosion . from @xmath78",
    "blueward , the spectrum is an _",
    "hst _ spectrum .",
    "[ fig2 ] ]     and locally - normalized representations from 1993",
    "september 15.5 ( an averaged date ) which is about 151  days after uvoir bolometric maximum light and 171  days after explosion . from @xmath98  blueward ,",
    "the spectrum is an _",
    "hst _ spectrum ( from 1993 september 17 ) .",
    "[ fig3 ] ]     and locally - normalized representations from 1993 november 15.5 ( an averaged date ) which is about 212  days after uvoir bolometric maximum light and 232  days after explosion . from @xmath117  blueward , the spectrum is an _",
    "hst _ spectrum ( from 1993 november 14 ) .",
    "the original _ hst _ spectrum blueward of @xmath119  seems to decline in a manner too steep to be physically real and we do not trust it nor the locally - normalized spectrum there .",
    "[ fig4 ] ]     emission line in the locally - normalized spectra of sn  1993j .",
    "the phases given in parentheses in the figure are relative to the uvoir bolometric maximum light on 1993  april  17 .",
    "the horizontal axis is logarithmic , but this is hard to notice given the small wavelength range covered .",
    "[ fig5 ] ]     to minimize the diff2 function value for the spectrum pair . for the spectrum pair , @xmath190 and @xmath191 .",
    "the spectra were both initially corrected for host galaxy heliocentric velocity : from leda , the mean host galaxy heliocentric velocities are @xmath41 ( sn  1993j ) and @xmath210 ( sn  1987k ) @xcite .",
    "[ fig6 ] ]      lcccccccc & mean diff1/2 & st.dev .",
    "& mean diff1/2 & st.dev .",
    "& mean diff1/2 & st.dev .",
    "& mean diff1/2 & st.dev .",
    "+ type iib & 0.507 & 0.000 & 0.674 & 0.077 & 0.662 & 0.068 & 0.632 & 0.052 + type ib / ibc & 0.674 & 0.077 & 0.615 & 0.097 & 0.646 & 0.113 & 0.712 & 0.081 + type ic & 0.662 & 0.068 & 0.646 & 0.113 & 0.578 & 0.118 & 0.614 & 0.085 + type ic hyp & 0.632 & 0.052 & 0.712 & 0.081 & 0.614 & 0.085 & 0.499 & 0.068 + type iib & 0.507 & 0.000 & 0.644 & 0.071 & 0.618 & 0.038 & 0.601 & 0.042 + type ib / ibc & 0.644 & 0.071 & 0.573 & 0.094 & 0.610 & 0.105 & 0.670 & 0.056 + type ic & 0.618 & 0.038 & 0.610 & 0.105 & 0.547 & 0.120 & 0.579 & 0.071 + type ic hyp & 0.601 & 0.042 & 0.670 & 0.056 & 0.579 & 0.071 & 0.455 & 0.020 + type iib & 0.507 & 0.000 & 0.730 & 0.064 & 0.699 & 0.066 & 0.735 & 0.086 + type ib / ibc & 0.730 & 0.064 & 0.633 & 0.085 & 0.654 & 0.082 & 0.855 & 0.128 + type ic & 0.699 & 0.066 & 0.654 & 0.082 & 0.597 & 0.160 & 0.754 & 0.135 + type ic hyp & 0.735 & 0.086 & 0.855 & 0.128 & 0.754 & 0.135 & 0.504 & 0.072 + type iib & 0.507 & 0.000 & 0.696 & 0.053 & 0.647 & 0.038 & 0.681 & 0.069 + type ib / ibc & 0.696 & 0.053 & 0.593 & 0.076 & 0.623 & 0.071 & 0.763 & 0.074 + type ic & 0.647 & 0.038 & 0.623 & 0.071 & 0.557 & 0.130 & 0.652 & 0.083 + type ic hyp & 0.681 & 0.069 & 0.763 & 0.074 & 0.652 & 0.083 & 0.485 & 0.064 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> two quantitative tests diff1 and diff2 for measuring goodness - of - fit between two locally - normalized supernova spectra are presented . </S>",
    "<S> locally - normalized spectra are obtained by dividing a spectrum by the same spectrum smoothed over a wavelength interval relatively large compared to line features , but relatively small compared to continuum features . </S>",
    "<S> diff1 essentially measures the mean relative difference between the line patterns of locally - normalized spectra and diff2 is diff1 minimized by a relative logarithmic wavelength shift between the spectra : the shift is effectively an artificial relative doppler shift . </S>",
    "<S> both diff1 and diff2 measure the physical similarity of line formation , and thus of supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> diff1 puts more weight on overall physical similarity of the supernovae than diff2 because the diff2 shift compensates somewhat for some physical distinction in the supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> both tests are useful in ordering supernovae into empirical groupings for further analysis . </S>",
    "<S> we present some examples of locally - normalized spectra for type  iib supernova sn  1993j with some analysis of these spectra . </S>",
    "<S> the uv parts of two of the sn  1993j spectra are _ hst _ spectra that have not been published before . </S>",
    "<S> we also give an example of fitted locally - normalized spectra and , as an example of the utility of diff1 and diff2 , some preliminary statistical results for hydrogen - deficient core - collapse ( hdcc ) supernova spectra . </S>",
    "<S> this paper makes use of and refers to material to found at the first author s online supernova spectrum database suspend ( supernovae spectra pending further analysis ) . </S>"
  ]
}