{
  "article_text": [
    "the einstein and rosat missions established the ubiquity of x - ray emission from low - mass , pre - main sequence ( pms ) stars .",
    "these early x - ray observations , and subsequent observations by the asca satellite x - ray observatory , left unsolved the fundamental problem of the physical origin of the x - ray emission , which could be solar - type coronal activity , star - disk interactions , or some combination of these mechanisms .",
    "much of the x - ray data pointed to the likely importance of magnetic activity ( feigelson & montmerle 1999 ) . to make further progress ,",
    "it is necessary to determine the temperature distributions , densities , and elemental abundances of the x - ray - emitting plasmas of pms stars , so as to provide constraints on models of x - ray emission from coronal and star - disk interactions and to compare with , e.g. , the physical conditions characterizing well - established stellar coronal x - ray sources ( such as rs cvn systems and other close binaries ) .    with the advent of x - ray gratings spectrometers aboard the chandra x - ray observatory and the xmm - newton satellite observatory ,",
    "astronomers are now beginning to explore the x - ray spectral characteristics of pms stars . in this regard",
    ", the tw hya association ( twa ) represents an especially useful young pms cluster .",
    "the twa is a group of about 30 pms stars ( zuckerman et al .",
    "2001 and references therein ) located only @xmath3 pc from the sun and far from the nearest star forming clouds ( kastner et al.1997 ) .",
    "its age ( @xmath4 myr ; e.g. , weintraub et al.2000 , zuckerman et al .",
    "2001 ) likely corresponds to the epoch of jovian planet formation in the early solar system .",
    "the twa s proximity , relatively large ratio of x - ray to bolometric luminosity ( @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is measured within the rosat spectral bandpass of 0.1 to 2.4 kev ; kastner et al .",
    "1997 ) , and lack of cloud absorption lead to uniformly high x - ray fluxes among its member stars . in terms of rosat x - ray spectral properties , the twa appears to represent a transition stage between cloud - embedded pms stars and the zero - age main sequence ( kastner et al .",
    "the cxo / hetgs spectrum of tw hya itself is perhaps the most extreme and intriguing of the many chandra / hetgs spectra of x - ray active stars obtained to date , in several key respects ( kastner et al .",
    "2002 ) : ( 1 ) ne is highly overabundant and fe severely underabundant , even in comparison with stars exhibiting strong coronal abundance anomalies ; ( 2 ) the temperature distribution derived from fluxes of temperature - sensitive emission lines is sharply peaked , at @xmath7 ; ( 3 ) perhaps most significantly , density - sensitive line ratios of ne  ix and o  vii indicate plasma densities @xmath8 . this is",
    "more than an order of magnitude larger than density estimates similarly obtained for coronally active late - type stars .",
    "tw hya remains the twa s only unambiguous example of an actively accreting ( i.e. , `` classical '' ) t tauri star . given the evidence that tw  hya likely is surrounded by a circumstellar disk from which it is still accreting ( e.g. , muzzerole et al .",
    "2000 ) , we used the chandra / hetgs results to explore the hypothesis that x - ray emission from classical t tauri stars might originate from accretion streams that connect the circumstellar disk to the star ( kastner et al.2002 ) . both the density range and the characteristic temperature of x - ray emission obtained from modeling the cxo / hetgs spectrum are consistent with recent models of magnetospheric accretion onto t tauri stars ( kuker , henning , & rudiger 2003 ) .    in this _",
    "letter _ , we report on the results of cxo / hetgs observations of a second well - studied twa member , hd  98800 ( tv crt ) .",
    "hd 98800 is a hierarchical quadruple , weak - lined t tauri star ( wtts ) and is one of the best examples of a solar - mass `` vega - type '' ( infrared excess ) system ( zuckerman & becklin 1993 ; sylvester et al .",
    "1996 ; soderblom et al .  1996 , 1998 ) .",
    "hd 98800 is a visual double with a separation of @xmath9 .",
    "each visual component is itself a spectroscopic binary , and one of these ( hd 98800b ) is double - lined ( soderblom et al .",
    "although the hd 98800b binary system harbors a dust disk , the system is apparently non - accreting ; models indicate that the dust disk has an inner gap extending to @xmath102 au ( prato et al .",
    "the hd 98800 system displays an x - ray luminosity similar to that of its fellow twa member tw  hya ( kastner et al .",
    "given that hd 98800 does not appear to be accreting , it makes an excellent target for further investigation into the origins of x - ray emission from pms stars with cxo / hetgs .",
    "we observed hd 98800 with chandra / hetgs for 98.9 ks on 2003 march 7 ( observation identifier 3728 ) in the default configuration ( timed exposure , acis - s detector array ) and under nominal operating conditions .",
    "data were re - processed with chandra interactive analysis of observations ( ciao ; version 3 ) software to apply updated calibrations , and events were cleaned of the detector artifacts on ccd 8 ( `` streaks '' ) .",
    "we applied subpixel event position corrections to the zeroth - order events , following an algorithm for cxo back - illuminated ccd data described in li et al .",
    "spectral responses were generated with ciao ; corrections were also made for acis contamination .",
    "lines were measured with isis ( houck & denicola 2000 ) by convolving gaussian profiles with the instrumental response , and emission measure and abundances were modeled with custom isis programs ( see , e.g. , huenemoerder et al .  2003b , for a detailed description of the technique ) .    the resulting chandra / hetgs spectral image of the hd 98800a / b binary yielded 5163 zeroth order counts , 4099 first order medium energy grating ( meg ) counts , and 1336 first order high energy grating ( heg ) counts . the integrated flux ( 1.5 - 25  ) obtained from the first - order meg and heg data is @xmath11 ( @xmath12 ) , corresponding to a luminosity @xmath13 at the distance to hd 98800 ( @xmath14 pc ; favata et al .  1998 ) .",
    "zeroth - order cxo / hetgs images of hd 98800 , before and after applying subpixel event position corrections , are presented in fig .  1 , alongside keck telescope images obtained in the thermal infrared ( prato et al .",
    "the primary components ( hd 98800a and b ) are well resolved in the zeroth - order image , following event position correction .",
    "in addition , light curves of the zeroth order sources and nearby background demonstrate that component a flared during the course of the observation ( fig .",
    "2 ) , while component b did not display measurable variations in count rate .",
    "prior to the onset of the flare , the cxo / hetgs count rate of hd 98800a was a factor @xmath1 larger than that of hd 98800b .",
    "2 demonstrates that the hd 98800a flare was seen predominantly in hard ( @xmath15  ) x - rays .      in fig .",
    "3 we present the spectrum of hd 98800a+b from 2   to 25  . in the range from 12   to 25  , the spectrum is dominated by emission lines from highly ionized ne , o , and fe .",
    "lines of o viii ( 16.0 , 19.0  ) , o vii ( 21.6 , 22.0  ) , ne x ( 12.1  ) , ne ix ( 13.4 , 13.7  ) , and fe xvii ( 15.0 , 17.1  ) are particularly prominent . several weaker lines ( e.g. , ne ix , ne x , mg xi , mg xii , si xiii , ar xvii )",
    "are clearly detected shortward of 12  , as well .    in fig .  4",
    ", we display narrow spectral regions around the 13.4 , 13.55 , and 13.7   triplet ( forbidden , intercombination , and resonance lines , respectively ; hereafter _ f , i , r _ ) of the he - like ion ne ix . in this triplet , as in the he - like o vii and mg xi triplets ( not shown ) , the intercombination line is the weakest of the three lines , and the _ f : i _ ratio lies between @xmath16 and @xmath17 ( see also huenemoerder et al .",
    "2003a ) . for the ne ix triplet ,",
    "the ( _ f : i _ ) ratio is diagnostic of electron density over the range @xmath18 and , in the case of hd 98800 , the ne ix _ f : i _ ratio suggests a density at the lower end of this range .    to better constrain the possible range of @xmath19 for hd 98800 we used models , based on the astrophysical plasma emission database ( aped ; smith et al .",
    "2001 ) , in which the he - like triplet line emissivities are calculated as functions of density and temperature ( brickhouse , pvt .  communication ) . for hd 98800 ,",
    "the comparison between the measured ne ix _ f : i _ ratio and the aped - based model calculations indicates @xmath20 , with a rather firm upper limit of @xmath21 ( fig .",
    "5 ) . from the o vii",
    "_ f : i _ ratio , which has a useful diagnostic range of about @xmath22 , we derive an upper limit of @xmath23 .",
    "( these upper limits need not be identical , since the lines are formed at different temperatures , and may not be spatially coincident . )    from emission measure and abundance modeling of hd 98800 , we find o , ne , and fe abundances ( relative to solar ) of @xmath24 , @xmath17 , and @xmath25 . fig .",
    "4 serves as a qualitative comparison of the relative abundances of ne and fe for hd 98800 and tw hya . specifically , since ne ix and fe xvii form at similar temperatures , their ratio is primarily sensitive to relative abundance ; fig .",
    "4 thus illustrates that the relative overabundance of ne with respect to fe is not as extreme for hd 98800 as for tw hya .",
    "it is intriguing that the apparently `` diskless '' component of the hd 98800 system , hd 98800a , appears to be the stronger x - ray source ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "given the relatively small visual extinction toward the system ( @xmath26 ; sylvester et al .",
    "1996 ) and the inference that the hd 98800b binary is viewed at intermediate inclination angle ( prato et al.2001 ) , it seems unlikely that this difference in apparent x - ray luminosities is due to differential intervening absorption .",
    "instead , it appears that a is intrinsically brighter in x - rays than b , with a difference of @xmath27 between components ( see   2 & 3.1 and prato et al .",
    "while this result appears consistent with a recent study of orion showing that disk - enshrouded pre - main sequence ( pms ) stars are , in general , weaker x - ray sources than `` diskless '' pms stars ( flaccomio et al.2003 ) , one must first demonstrate that the quiescent emission from both components does not show long - term variability , and that other binary tts resolvable by chandra show x - ray flux ratios that are likewise anticorrelated with their relative ir excesses .    in terms of the _ fir _ line ratios of he - like ions , and its ne to fe line ratios ,",
    "the cxo / hetg x - ray spectrum of hd 98800 resembles those of `` classical '' coronal sources , such as ii peg , ux ari , and hr 1099 ( see , e.g. , fig .  6 in kastner et al .",
    "hence  although it remains to determine _ fir _ line ratios for additional weak - lined t tauri stars  _ the fir line ratio results for hd 98800 provide some of the strongest evidence to date that the x - ray emission from such stars is coronal in origin .",
    "_    there is a marked contrast between the _ fir _ ratios in the x - ray spectra of hd 98800 and tw hya , however ( fig.4 ) . for the latter ( classical t tauri ) star ,",
    "the forbidden line is by far the weakest of the o vii and ne ix triplets , and the _ i : r _ ratio is near unity in each case ( the mg xi triplet is anomalously weak in the tw hya spectrum ; kastner et al .",
    "5 shows that , assuming the uv radiation field incident on the x - ray emitting plasma of tw hya is not strong ( see below ) , the plausible density regimes of ne ix line formation are non - overlapping , for tw hya and hd 98800 ; i.e. , the ne ix _ f : i _ ratio in the spectrum of tw hya requires @xmath28 .",
    "furthermore , whereas the differential emission measure ( dem ) distribution of tw hya is sharply peaked at @xmath29 ( kastner et al .",
    "2002 ) , the dem distribution of hd 98800 is relatively flat over the temperature range @xmath30 to @xmath31 . the latter behavior is more like that of coronal sources ( huenemoerder et al .",
    "2003a , b ) although  unlike such sources  hd 98800 evidently lacks strong emissivity around @xmath32 .",
    "this may be an indication of the evolutionary status of the corona , in that the dynamo is not yet as strong as in the coronally active binaries , or that the flare frequency , which seems to drive the hotter peak , is not as high .",
    "the overall x - ray spectral similarity between hd 98800 and coronally active stars makes the cxo / hetg x - ray spectrum of the classical tts tw hya that much more remarkable . as argued by kastner et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , both the plasma densities implied by line ratios of he - like ions and its sharply peaked ( and rather low ) x - ray temperature distribution point to accretion as a likely source of some or all of its x - ray emission .",
    "the modeling of kuker et al .",
    "( 2003 ) lends additional credence to this argument . as tw hya",
    "evidently is actively accreting ( based on its strong h@xmath33 emission and its uv and near - infrared excesses ) whereas hd 98800 is not ( based on these same accretion indicators ) , the sharp distinction between their x - ray spectral characteristics appears to further support the hypothesis that the x - ray emission from tw hya  and , by extension , other classical tts  may be generated , at least in part , via accretion .    on the other hand ,",
    "these two twa stars are similar in x - rays , in certain respects .",
    "for example , tw hya was also observed to flare , with flare characteristics ( e.g. , rise time , decay time , peak flare to quiescent count rates ) similar to those of hd 98800 ( kastner et al .",
    "in addition , although tw hya is by far the most extreme star thus measured by hetg in terms of its ne / fe abundance ratio , the x - ray spectrum of hd 98800 shows similar abundance patterns overall ( huenemoerder et al .",
    "2003b ) .",
    "these similarities would appear to cast some doubt on the accretion hypothesis for tw hya .",
    "it is possible , for example , that uv radiation , generated in accretion streams onto tw hya , depletes the populations of atomic levels responsible for the forbidden line component of the he - like triplets , thereby driving the line ratios to their high - density limits ( e.g. , ness et al .",
    "although this phenomenon is reasonably well established in the case of the intense uv fields of x - ray - luminous o stars , it is less clear that it is a viable model in the case of accreting ctts .",
    "the relatively weak uv fields of such stars likely would require that the x - ray - emitting plasma be in very close proximity to the uv source  effectively placing the point of x - ray generation within ( or very near ) the accretion stream itself .",
    "whatever their origin , the contrasting results for the density - sensitive line ratios of he - like ions in the x - ray spectra of tw hya and hd 98800 ( fig .  5 ) suggest that fundamentally different physical conditions characterize the x - ray emitting plasmas of ctts and wtts .",
    "cxo / hetg observations of additional ctts and wtts systems , as well as detailed physical models of uv - irradiated coronal plasmas , are now required to establish whether these he - like triplet line ratios are probing x - ray emitting plasma in accretion funnels or are , instead , diagnostic of the intensity of accretion - powered uv and its proximity to the corona of the accreting star .",
    "huenemoerder , d.p . ,",
    "boroson , b. , schulz , n.s . , canizares , c.r.,buzasi , d.l . ,",
    "preston , h.l . , canizares , c.r .",
    ", & kastner , j.h .",
    "2003a , in `` iau symposium 219 : stars as suns : activity , evolution , planets , '' eds .  a. dupree and a. o. benz ( astro - ph/0310319 )                                             vs.  @xmath35 within the ne ix triplet , for hd 98800 = tv crt ( lower contours ) and tw hya ( upper contours ) .",
    "the grid overlaid on the plot ( @xmath36 vs.  @xmath37 ) , which is based on a density - dependent aped model ( brickhouse , pvt .",
    "comm . ) , illustrates how the ratio @xmath38 serves as a diagnostic of the density of the gas at the temperature indicated by @xmath39 .",
    "the central , middle , and outer contours represent 68% , 90% , and 99% confidence levels in the measured values of @xmath38 and @xmath39 . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present high - resolution x - ray spectra of the multiple ( hierarchical quadruple ) weak - lined t tauri star system hd 98800 , obtained with the high energy transmission gratings spectrograph ( hetgs ) aboard the chandra x - ray observatory ( cxo ) . in the zeroth - order cxo / hetgs x - ray image , both principle binary components of hd 98800 ( a and b , separation @xmath0 ) are detected ; component a was observed to flare during the observation . </S>",
    "<S> the infrared excess ( dust disk ) component , hd 98800b , is a factor @xmath1 fainter in x - rays than the apparently `` diskless '' hd 98800a , in quiescence . </S>",
    "<S> the line ratios of he - like species ( e.g. , ne ix , o vii ) in the hd 98800a spectrum indicate that the x - ray - emitting plasma around hd 98800 is in a typical coronal density regime ( @xmath2 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the dominant x - ray - emitting component(s ) of hd 98800 is ( are ) coronally active . </S>",
    "<S> the sharp spectral differences between hd 98800 and the classical t tauri star tw hya demonstrate the potential utility of high - resolution x - ray spectroscopy in providing diagnostics of pre - main sequence accretion processes . </S>"
  ]
}