{
  "article_text": [
    "ob associations and young open clusters are the most active nucleosynthetic sites in our galaxy .",
    "the combined activity of stellar winds and core ",
    "collapse supernovae ejects significant amounts of freshly synthesised nuclei into the interstellar medium . among those , radioactive isotopes , such as  ( @xmath10  yr ) or  ( @xmath11  yr ) ,",
    "may eventually be observed by gamma ",
    "ray instruments through their characteristic decay  line signatures .",
    "their observation presents direct evidence of recent nucleosynthesis activity , which can be used as a powerful diagnostics tool for studies of present galactic activity .",
    "galactic 1.809  gamma  ray line emission attributed to the radioactive decay of  has been observed by numerous gamma  ray telescopes , and the detailed mapping of the emission distribution by the comptel telescope has clearly identified massive stars as the source of this radio  isotope ( see prantzos & diehl 1996 for a review ) .",
    "the most convincing evidence for a massive star origin comes from the close resemblance between the 1.809  and galactic free  free emission , which links  nucleosynthesis to the o star population ( kndlseder et al .  1999a ; kndlseder 1999 ) . since in general a variety of distinct massive star populations of different ages , sizes , and metallicities",
    "contribute to the observed intensities along a line of sight , this indicates that the average properties of the populations are related .",
    "however , the correlation between 1.809  and free  free emission also holds for regions far from the galactic centre where only few massive star associations contribute to the observed emissions .",
    "examples are the cygnus and the vela regions where localised 1.809  emission enhancements coincide spatially with maxima of free  free radiation , showing the same relative intensities as the galaxy as a whole ( kndlseder et al .",
    "1999a ) .    to fully exploit in a quantitative manner such existing data and in preparation of the upcoming _ integral _ gamma  ray satellite mission",
    "the development of new interpretation tools is necessary .",
    "we here present the first results from our modified time ",
    "dependent multi  wavelength evolutionary synthesis models .",
    "a similar model was recently presented by @xcite . to model the gamma ",
    "ray luminosities the nucleosynthetic production of the long  lived radio  isotopes  and , has been included in our multi  wavelength code ( cervio & mas - hesse 1994 , cervio et al.2000 ) .",
    "these isotopes give rise to the 1.809  ( for ) and 1.173  and 1.333  ( for ) gamma  ray lines respectively .",
    "the model properly accounts for the accumulation of radioactive elements and their respective decay times .",
    "results from state  of  the  art stellar atmospheres of massive stars are included to accurately predict the ionising fluxes from these stars , which are at the origin of thermal free  free emission . together with the other synthesised observables this provides a versatile tool for gamma  ray to radio analysis of massive star forming regions .    for comparisons with individual galactic star forming regions ( e.g.ob associations , clusters , h  ii regions ) or ensembles of such objects it is not only imperative to model the temporal evolution of their properties .",
    "the effects of small number statistics of the massive star population must also be taken into account ( cervio et al .",
    "2000b ) . various studies , including the present one , treat such effects by means of monte carlo simulations ( e.g.  cervio & mas - hesse 1994 , mckee & williams 1997 , oey & clarke 1998 ) .",
    "finally for a fully quantitative and objective confrontation with observables an additional step is performed here , to our knowledge for the first time in this context .",
    "the observational constraints ( e.g.a known number of stars of given spectral types , derived age , distance etc . ) and their uncertainties are included in a bayesian approach providing probability distributions for all derived properties .",
    "section 2 describes the ingredients of our synthesis code .",
    "the main predictions from our models are presented in section 3 .",
    "uncertainties are briefly discussed in sect .",
    "our bayesian approach to model realistic stellar populations is presented in sect .",
    "the main conclusions are summarised in sect .",
    "the starting point for our modelling effort is the evolutionary synthesis code of @xcite , which predicts the time ",
    " wavelength energy distribution of a population of discrete stars from radio wavelengths up to the x  ray domain . for this work ,",
    "we have updated the atmosphere models for massive stars using the costar models ( schaerer & de koter 1997 ) , and we included atmosphere models for the wolf  rayet ( wr ) phase from @xcite following the prescriptions of schaerer & vacca ( 1998 ) . in order to predict gamma ",
    "ray luminosities , we have included chemical yields for the radioactive isotopes  and  that may either be produced during hydrostatic nucleosynthesis in the interiors of massive stars , or during explosive nucleosynthesis in supernova explosions ( cf .",
    "section [ sec : yields ] ) .",
    "the calculations have been done for two different star formation laws in order to explore the extreme cases of an instantaneous burst ( ib ) and of a constant star formation rate ( csfr ) . for the ib model ,",
    "an initial population of coevally formed stars has been created based on a monte carlo method . using a power  law initial mass function ( imf ) of slope @xmath12 as probability density function in this prescription . ] , we randomly created initial stellar masses within the interval @xmath13  until the total number of stars reaches a predefined limit .",
    "the evolution of each star is then calculated using the geneva evolutionary tracks ( see below ) in time steps of @xmath14 years up to an age of typically @xmath15 myr . at each time",
    "step the spectral energy distribution and the ejected  and  yields are computed for each individual star .",
    "the evolution of spectral types is also followed in order to predict the number of o and wr stars in the population .",
    "stars that end their lives during a time step are counted as supernova explosions ( as far as they are more massive than @xmath16 ) , and are removed from the population for the next time step .",
    "summing the contributions from all individual star results then in predictions for the entire population .",
    "the evolution of the stars in the population is followed using the non  rotating stellar tracks from @xcite ( hereafter mapp97 ) for stars with initial mass @xmath17 , @xcite for @xmath18 , and @xcite otherwise .",
    "solar metallicity tracks are used for this work since we are interested in predictions for star clusters and ob associations in the solar neighbourhood , but in future we plan to extend the calculations also to other metallicities .",
    "the possible alterations when rotation is taken into account in the stellar models are briefly discussed in sect .",
    "[ sec : uncertain ] .",
    "rotating stellar models will be included when complete tracks covering all relevant evolutionary phases will become available .",
    "the stellar tracks we used have been calculated for enhanced mass loss during the massive star evolution until the end of the wnl phase .",
    "this prescription leads to an improved agreement between predictions and several observed wr properties ; in particular , these models can account for the variation of the number ratio of wr to o type stars as a function of the metallicity in zones of constant star formation rate ( maeder & meynet 1994 ) .",
    "the relative populations of wn and wc stars observed in young starburst regions are also better reproduced when models with high mass loss rates are used ( meynet 1995 ; schaerer et al 1999 ) .",
    "the models we are using predict a lower initial mass limit of 25  for the formation of wr stars . uncertainties due to this mass limit will be discussed in section [ sec : uncertain ] . in order to avoid numerical inconsistencies and an unrealistic behaviour of interpolated tracks around the wr mass limit",
    ", we have constructed an artificial track at 25.01  going through the wr phases .",
    "this track together with the published 25  track , which does not enter the wr phase , allows smooth interpolations in this mass range .",
    "the prediction of chemical yields for massive stars depends critically on the assumed stellar physics , such as the treatment of convection , rotation , mass  loss , and the final supernova explosion . being aware of these uncertainties",
    ", we do not intend to predict the yields of and  to better than within a factor of 2 or so ( e.g.  prantzos & diehl 1996 ; woosley & heger 1999 ) , but we merely want to identify the main characteristics of nucleosynthesis in a massive star population . however , by comparing the models to real massive star populations , one can inverse the problem and try to learn something about massive star nucleosynthesis , and possibly better constrain the theoretical models . in this sense ,",
    "the employed nucleosynthesis yields can be seen as a hypothesis , which can be verified by comparison to observations .",
    "two different sites of nucleosynthesis must be taken into account for the prediction of  and  yields from a massive star association .",
    "first , the h  burning in the core of the stars may produce appreciable amounts of  that may appear at the stellar surface as an effect of both internal mixing and removal of the external layers by stellar winds .",
    "this  can then be ejected into the interstellar medium by the stellar winds .",
    "second , when the star explodes in a supernova event , both  produced during the post h  burning phases and that synthesised at the time of the explosion",
    "are then expulsed into the interstellar medium .    to obtain the yields from the population synthesis code",
    ", one needs a series of different initial mass stellar models computed with the same physical ingredients .",
    "since the geneva tracks stop before the presupernova stage and give no predictions concerning the explosive nucleosynthesis , we must complement these data with the yields of and  ejected during the supernova event .",
    "recent calculations of hydrostatic  nucleosynthesis in mass losing stars have been undertaken by @xcite and mapp97 for non  rotating single massive stars . despite the different assumptions that both groups made about mass loss and convection , both calculations lead to comparable results ( mapp97 ) .",
    "we here use the mapp97 calculations , which have the advantage of being consistent with the adopted evolutionary tracks which have extensively been compared to observations ( see sect .",
    "the dependence of the total mass of  ejected by wr stellar winds as a function of the initial mass is shown in the left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : alyields ] . we have assumed no  ejection by stellar winds for the 20  stellar model",
    "linear interpolation is used to determine the yields at intermediate masses .",
    "arnould et al .",
    "( 1997 ) suggest that some amount of  could be ejected by wr stellar winds . typically , for a 60  star",
    "they find @xmath19  of  ejected during the wr phase , which is well below the quantity of  expelled in the final sn explosion ( cf .",
    "[ fig : feyields ] ) .",
    "the stellar wind contribution of  can therefore safely be neglected for our purposes .      at solar metallicity ,",
    "stars in the mass range @xmath20  will end their lives by core collapse , giving rise to type ii supernova ( sn  ii ) explosions . explosive  and  nucleosynthesis during these events has been calculated by woosley & weaver ( 1995 ; hereafter ww95 ) , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "their models differ in the treatment of the pre  supernova evolution , the prescription of convection , the employed nuclear reaction networks , and the assumed explosion mechanism .",
    "for example , while ww95 included hydrostatic  production in the pre  supernova phase in their models , @xcite only predict explosive nucleosynthesis yields in their models . additionally , ww95 added neutrino driven spallation ( the so called @xmath21process ) in their reaction network while the others ignore this channel ( the @xmath21process may enhance  production due to additional release of protons ) .",
    "of all these models , ww95 predict the highest  yields ; for example @xcite obtain yields that are almost a factor of 10 lower .",
    "we here adopt the ww95 yields for  and , whose dependence on the initial stellar mass are shown in the left panels of figs .",
    "[ fig : alyields ] and [ fig : feyields ] respectively .",
    "note that the ww95 yields do not reach down to @xmath16 , the assumed initial mass limit for sn  ii .",
    "we assume no  production for 7   and perform a log  linear interpolation in the mass interval between 8 and 11 . note that in the case of  the choice of the inferior mass limit for stars undergoing core  collapse has an important impact on the results since the stars in this mass range may have a considerable contribution .    in order to assign a supernova model ( calculated from stellar models neglecting mass loss and with different limits of the convective cores ) to the adopted stellar models , we use @xmath22 , the mass of the carbon ",
    "oxygen core at the end of c  burning , as linking parameter , as suggested by @xcite .",
    "this procedure is based on the hypothesis that the relation between @xmath22 and the explosive nucleosynthetic yields does not much depend on the particular set of stellar models .",
    "in particular for our case this should be a reasonable assumption since at the time of the supernova explosion the main regions of  and production are inside the co core ( cf .",
    "@xmath22 from the evolutionary tracks was estimated from the fraction of the convective core before the end of he burning ] .",
    "although , for the tracks in common with maeder ( 1992 ) , the derived values are somewhat lower than the ones tabulated by maeder ( 1992 ) , the yields are only slightly modified . for the ww95 models we use the @xmath22 values from @xcite calculated by subtracting the amount of hydrogen and helium in the ww95 tables from the initial mass .",
    "the resulting  and  yields are shown in the right panels of figs .",
    "[ fig : alyields ] and [ fig : feyields ] ,      for stars that go through the wolf  rayet phase , the above approach of estimating the explosive nucleosynthesis yields is not longer valid .",
    "the mass  loss will considerably modify the structure of the star prior to explosion , leading eventually to a type ib or type ic supernova explosion at the end of its lifetime .",
    "after the evaporation of the hydrogen envelope , such an object may closely resemble a helium star .",
    "the only computation of explosive nucleosynthesis yields for  and  in such events comes from woosley , langer & weaver ( 1995 ; hereafter wlw95 ) who calculated the explosion of mass losing helium stars of initial he masses between @xmath23 . again",
    ", the models of wlw95 have to be connected to the evolutionary tracks in our evolutionary synthesis model . in principle",
    "there are three different ways how such a link could be done .",
    "first , we could use the final mass @xmath24 of the mapp97 evolutionary tracks and link them to the final masses of the wlw95 models .",
    "second , we could use the mass of the he core @xmath25 at the beginning of core he burning and connect them with the initial masses of the wlw95 models . and",
    "third , as for sn of type ii , @xmath22 could be used .",
    "the three possible link parameters @xmath24 , @xmath25 and @xmath22 derived from the evolutionary tracks are shown as function of the initial stellar mass in fig .",
    "[ fig : mwlw ] .",
    "since @xmath25 and @xmath22 are not all directly available from the tracks they were estimated from the mass fraction of the convective core close to the beginning and end of he  burning respectively .",
    "the @xmath22 values estimated in this manner are found to be @xmath1 20  40 % lower than @xmath22 from the stellar structure models ( foellmi 1997 ) . as shown by fig .",
    "[ fig : mwlw ] not all mass ranges overlap with available sn ib models of wlw95 .",
    "some link parameters are therefore of limited practical use .",
    "the  and  yields resulting from the use of the different link parameters ( excluding extrapolations outside the range covered by the wlw95 models ) is shown in the right panels of figs .",
    "[ fig : alyields ] and [ fig : feyields ] ( values at @xmath26 25 ) . given the physical and numerical uncertainties in the link between the hydrostatic stellar models and the sn ib calculations the variations are considered to be small . for masses @xmath2 70 ,",
    "the link using m@xmath27 provides a somewhat lower  yield than using @xmath25 .",
    "however , since these stars are relatively rare and since stellar wind ejection exceeds the sn ib production by up to an order of magnitude , the precise explosive yield in this domain is not crucial . for consistency with the type ii supernova yields ,",
    "@xmath22 will thus be used for all tracks as the link parameter in the remainder of this work .",
    "note also that @xcite , in his estimation of the global galactic  production rate , used a mass independent , constant sn  ib / c yield of @xmath28 .",
    "this prescription is in good agreement with our more refined treatment , which predicts yields between @xmath29 .",
    "we will now present the temporal evolution of some of the key predictions of our model , such as the supernova rate , the ionising flux , and the  and  nucleosynthesis yields . as indicated earlier ( sect .",
    "[ sec : method ] ) we consider two different star formation histories : a coeval population ( instantaneous burst : ib ) and a constant star formation rate ( csfr ) . in the present section an analytic description of the imf is used .",
    "realistic populations of ob associations and young open clusters , with a limited number of member stars , will be discussed in section [ sec : realistic ] .",
    "we adopt a salpeter imf ( @xmath30 ) over the interval @xmath13  , variations of the imf slope will be discussed in sect .",
    "[ sec : imfdep ] . recall that in both the ib and csfr cases our normalisation yields _ absolute _ quantities given per mass of stars formed ( ib case ) , and star formation rate , /yr ( csfr case ) .",
    "all other predictions shown here , referring to relative quantities , are not affected by the adopted normalisation .",
    "the predicted supernova rates from our models are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : snr ] . for the ib law ,",
    "the supernova activity starts with a sharp peak around @xmath31 myr which then soon turns over into a smoothly declining activity , situated around 1 sn per gyr and .",
    "the peak is due to the fact that stars within the mass interval @xmath32  all have about the same lifetime ( 3.97 , 3.95 , and 4.05 myr for a 120 , 85 , and 60  star , respectively ) , hence the stars within this mass range explode at almost the same moment .",
    "the supernova activity ends around @xmath33 myr , when all stars more massive than @xmath16  have vanished .    for the csfr ,",
    "the onset of the supernova activity is much more smooth , turning quickly into an almost constant rate of @xmath34 sn per gyr and /myr .      the evolution of the ionising flux @xmath35 , defined as the number of photons emitted per second with wavelengths shorter than 912  , is shown in fig .  [ fig : q ] .",
    "after the onset of star formation @xmath35 decreases with age . in the case of an ib , the decline is very rapid , reducing during the first 12 myr the ionising flux by a factor of @xmath36 .",
    "this comes from the fact that the bulk of ionising flux is provided by stars more massive than @xmath37 , which disappear within only a few million years after their formation . in the case of a csfr new massive stars",
    "constantly replenish the loss of ionising photons from stars which disappear .",
    "since the ionising flux increases strongly with mass , @xmath35 reaches equilibrium more rapidly than the sn rate .",
    "the  and  ejection rates , @xmath38 and @xmath39 respectively , defined as the mass of radio  isotopes ejected per myr , and normalised to the total mass converted into stars , are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : rates ] for ib models .",
    "several ejection peaks are seen in the evolution of the  rates .",
    "the first peak between @xmath40 myr , which presents the maximum ejection rate during the evolution , comes from the onset of strong winds for the most massive stars in the population .",
    "the next peak at @xmath31 myr is due to the almost simultaneous explosion of all stars in the mass interval @xmath32  as type ib / c supernovae ( see section [ sec : snr ] and fig .  [",
    "fig : snr ] ) . around @xmath41",
    "myr type ib / c supernovae start to dominate   production , until at @xmath42 myr the first type ii supernovae begin to explode .",
    "the enhanced  production of type ii sn with respect to type ib / c leads then to the next peak between @xmath43 myr . from this age on , the  ejection rate is dominated by type ii events .",
    "the time  dependence of the ejection rate then reflects the mass dependence of type ii supernova yields ( cf .",
    "[ fig : alyields ] ) and the slow decline of the supernova rate ( cf .  fig .",
    "[ fig : snr ] ) .    for the  ejection rate ,",
    "a complex structure is found , where the first peak again reflects the burst of supernova explosions around @xmath31 myr , and the remaining peaks directly reflect the dependency of the  yield on initial stellar mass ( cf .",
    "[ fig : feyields ] ) .",
    "hence the temporal structure of the  rate depends mainly on the details of the explosive nucleosynthesis models , and following the discussion about the uncertainties of these models ( sects .",
    "[ sec : yields ] , [ sec : uncertain ] ) , the structure should not be regarded as a physical prediction of our model . in particular",
    ", the broad bump between @xmath44 myr mainly reflects the single high  yield point in the ww95 models at @xmath45 , and modifications in the yields due to changes in the assumptions about the stellar physics in the nucleosynthesis models ( e.g.  woosley & heger 1999 ) can easily shift or remove this bump .",
    "emissivities ( i.e. decay rates ) @xmath46 , in units of  per myr , and normalised to the total mass converted into stars , have been obtained by integrating the ejection rates @xmath47 over the past history including the radioactive decay , using @xmath48 where @xmath49 is the mean life of the radioactive isotope ( @xmath50 myr for  and @xmath51 myr for ) . as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : rates ] the emissivities are much smoother than the ejection rates , which is an obvious result of the convolution operation given by eq .",
    "[ eq : cumulative ] . for , the emissivity rises sharply between @xmath52 myr , which is attributed to stellar wind ejecta from massive stars . from @xmath53 myr on",
    ", the emissivity decreases continuously with a secondary maximum around @xmath43 myr due to the onset of type ii supernovae mass ejections .",
    "the trend of decreasing  rate with increasing age should be a generic feature for  nucleosynthesis in massive star associations , at least for a salpeter imf , independently of the uncertainties in the nucleosynthesis models .",
    "the reason is that hydrostatic  production , which dominates  nucleosynthesis in wr stars and sn  ii , decreases generally with decreasing initial mass since the number of seed nuclei becomes smaller .",
    "also , the sn rate , which defines the number of ejection events within a time interval , decreases with time ( cf .",
    "[ fig : snr ] ) .",
    "however , the level of the first maximum ( i.e.  the wr ",
    "peak ) with respect to the second maximum ( i.e.  the sn ",
    "peak ) may depend on details of the nucleosynthesis calculations . also , the age at which the second sn  peak ( due to sn  ii ) occurs depends on the exact mass limit of wr star formation , assumed here to be @xmath54 .",
    "e.g.lower values of @xmath55 should shift the sn  ii peak to older ages .",
    "a similar temporal behaviour of  is found in the models of @xcite .    for",
    ", the emissivity is composed of two broad bumps ( at @xmath56 and @xmath57 myr ) that are separated by a local minimum around @xmath58 myr .",
    "after the second bump , the emissivity decreases smoothly , followed by the exponential decline after @xmath59 myr .",
    "overall , the  production stays almost constant between @xmath60 myr , followed by a slow decline , and due to the uncertainties in the nucleosynthesis calculations , we should only retain this behaviour as characteristic .",
    "given our detailed treatment of yields from sn  ii and sn  ib , a larger  yield is obtained when compared to the models of @xcite .",
    "this also affects the predicted /  ratio .",
    "part of the  and  are co  produced in the same regions within type ii supernovae ( timmes et al .",
    "1995 ) , hence the observation of gamma  ray lines from both isotopes can be used as powerful diagnostics tool of nucleosynthesis conditions in such events .",
    "for this reason , we investigate also the time ",
    "dependency of the ratio @xmath62 between  and  emissivities defined as @xmath63 . the predicted dependency is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : feal ] for the case of an instantaneous burst , and for a continuous star formation rate .    for the ib model",
    ", @xmath62 rises steadily as function of time .",
    "this is due to the fact that  ejection decreases with increasing age , while the  yields stay roughly constant during the active phase of the association .",
    "after the last supernova exploded , at an age around @xmath33 myr , the accumulated yields decay exponentially , leading to an exponential rise in @xmath62 with a time scale of @xmath64 ( @xmath65 myr and @xmath66 myr are the mean lifetimes of  and , respectively ) .",
    "note that for ages younger than @xmath41 myr , copious  production may appear in an association while no  has been synthesised yet .",
    "this is due to the fact that no appreciable amounts of  are supposed to be ejected by stellar winds , and  appears only when the first supernovae begin to explode . again , this should be a generic feature of the time ",
    "evolution of a coevally formed population that should be independent of details in the nucleosynthesis calculations .",
    "for a constant star formation rate , @xmath62 rises more smoothly and soon turns into its steady state value around @xmath67 .",
    "our result is slightly in excess of the calculations of @xcite who inferred a value of @xmath68 from a chemical evolution calculation for the galaxy , assuming only sn  ii nucleosynthesis without mass  loss in the initial mass range @xmath69   and taking the metallicity gradient of the galaxy into account . adopting similar assumptions  , salpeter imf from 0.08 to 40 . ]",
    "we obtain a ratio of @xmath70 , which is much closer to their findings .",
    "the main difference between the @xcite and our work lies in the treatment of mass loss during the hydrostatic burning phases and its effect on the presupernova structure , which leads to a reduction of  by about 30% , while the  nucleosynthesis remains almost the same .",
    "comptel observations of the 1.809  gamma  ray line suggest that the  flux is proportional to the number of ionising photons ( kndlseder et al .",
    "1999 ) . in order to express the proportionality factor in convenient units",
    ", @xcite introduced the `` equivalent o7  v star  yield '' , , as the mass of  that is produced by a star of spectral type o7  v , assuming that such a star has an ionising flux of @xmath71 = 49.05 ph s@xmath9 .",
    "this terminology follows closely the one employed for the analysis of starburst galaxies , where the strength of the ionising flux is often expressed in terms of equivalent stars of a given subtype ( e.g.  vacca 1994 ) .",
    "we extend here the definition also to , where in analogy  is the mass of  produced by an o7  v star .",
    "the predicted equivalent o7  v star yields , calculated using @xmath72 are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : yo7 ] for the ib and the csfr model .",
    "apparently ,  is an extremely sensitive age indicator for a coevally formed population ( this would be also true for , yet the  lines have not been detected so far )",
    ".    within 10 myr ,  varies by more than 3 orders of magnitude .",
    "this strong variation is mainly due to the rapid evolution of the ionising flux which drops considerably as soon as the most massive stars in the association vanished ( see section [ sec : q ] ) . in comparison , the most common age ",
    "indicator in  regions , the h@xmath73 equivalent width , varies only within 3 orders of magnitude within 20 myr ( see cervio & mas - hesse 1994 for more details ) . a combination of radio observations providing ionising fluxes and 1.809  gamma ",
    "ray observations should allow to obtain age estimates .",
    "in particular , although the strong time - variation is driven by the rapid drop in ionising flux , adding the gamma - ray observations provides a convenient normalisation , making the age estimate independent of distance , population richness , interstellar extinction , and imf slope ( see also sect .  [",
    "sec : imfdep ] ) .",
    "the evolution of  for the ib model can be split into four phases :    1 .   _",
    "the stellar wind phase _ , lasting from the star formation burst up to @xmath74 myr , and which is characterised by a steep rise of , 2 .   _",
    "the type ib / c supernova phase _ , from @xmath75 myr , showing a flattening in the slope , which comes from a slight decline in   production together with a rapid decline in the ionising flux , 3 .   _",
    "the type ii supernova phase _ , from @xmath76 myr , starting with a step around @xmath42 myr due to the most massive sn  ii , followed by a tail of positive slope since the ionising flux drops quicker than  production , and 4 .   _ the decay phase _ , after @xmath77 myr , which is dominated by the exponential decay of .",
    "while this general picture should not depend on details of the nucleosynthesis and atmosphere models , the exact slopes and time intervals may well change for different input physics .",
    "in particular , phase 3 could already start after @xmath78 myr if the minimum mass required to form a wolf",
    " rayet star would be as high as @xmath79 .",
    "figure [ fig : yo7 ] also illustrates that the equivalent   star yield is an excellent discriminator between o star nucleosynthesis ( i.e.  hydrostatic nucleosynthesis in wr stars and explosive nucleosynthesis in type ib / c sne ) and sn  ii nucleosynthesis .",
    "while phase 1 and 2 are characterised by low  values , ranging from zero to @xmath80 , sn  ii phase is characterised by high equivalent yields well above @xmath81 . due to the order of magnitude difference",
    ", it should be relatively easy to use  to discriminate between both contributions .",
    "although the evolution of  for the ib model follows roughly that of , we can not easily identify distinct phases as for . due to the complex behaviour of the  yields ,",
    "a lot of structure is found in the evolution of the  ejection rates , but no simple characteristic trend .",
    "hence , to first order , the evolution of  mainly reflects the fast decline of the ionising flux with increasing age .",
    "llcc & source & @xmath82 ( ) & contribution ( % ) +  & ms  winds & @xmath83 & 9 + & wr  winds & @xmath84 & 33 + & sn  ib / c & @xmath85 & 14 + & sn  ii & @xmath86 & 44 + & total & @xmath87 & 100 + & & & +  & sn  ib / c & @xmath88 & 39 + & sn  ii & @xmath89 & 61 + & total & @xmath90 & 100 +    the models calculated for a constant star formation rate allow us to predict steady state equivalent yields , which are reached after @xmath37 myr ( cf .  fig .",
    "[ fig : yo7 ] ) .",
    "the resulting steady state values , split into contributions from individual source types , are given in table [ tab : steadystate ] .",
    "in particular , stellar wind contributions have been divided into yields ejected prior to ( ms  winds ) and during ( wr  winds ) the wolf ",
    "rayet phase , respectively .",
    "apparently , @xmath91 of the hydrostatically produced  ejected by stellar winds comes from before the wr phase , while the rest is ejected when the hydrogen envelope gets entirely lost in a wolf  rayet phase . as already pointed out by mapp97 and @xcite , stellar wind ejection from massive stars",
    "provide an important ( @xmath1 42 % ) contribution to the global  production .",
    "type ii supernovae contribute a similar amount , while the rest originates from sn  ib / c explosions .",
    "the exact repartition on the different source classes depends , of course , on the nucleosynthesis models , but also on the assumed mass limit for wr star formation , the slope of the imf , and finally the metallicity ( kndlseder 1999 ) .",
    "our model predicts a steady  state equivalent o7  v star  yield of @xmath87 , which is lower than the observed value integrated over the whole galaxy of @xmath92 ( kndlseder 1999 ) . in view of the uncertainties involved in the nucleosynthesis calculations ,",
    "the similarity between model and observation is however encouraging .",
    "in addition , our models were calculated for solar metallicity only , whereas the gamma ",
    "ray observations average over the entire galaxy , which shows an average metallicity of roughly twice the solar value ( prantzos & diehl 1996 ) .",
    "higher metallicities potentially increase the  production by wolf ",
    "rayet stars , due to an increase in mass  loss and the amount of seed nuclei available for  synthesis ( e.g.  mapp97 ) . hence , including metallicity effects in our calculations is expected to raise the  estimate , bringing it even closer to the observed value .",
    "lcc & this work & kndlseder ( 1999 ) + @xmath93 (  myr@xmath9 ) & 1.47 & @xmath94 + @xmath95 (  myr@xmath9 ) & 0.84 & - + @xmath96 ( ) & 1.53 & @xmath97 + @xmath98 ( ) & 1.74 & - + sn rate ( sn century@xmath9 ) & 2.44 & - + sfr (  yr@xmath9 ) & 0.96 & 1.2 +    using the estimated galactic lyman continuum luminosity of @xmath99 photons s@xmath9 ( bennett et al .",
    "1994 ) , the number of equivalent o7  v stars can be estimated to @xmath100 , and we can predict galactic nucleosynthesis yields from our csfr model . a similar approach has been followed by @xcite using a time  independent steady  state model for the galaxy .",
    "in table [ tab : galactic ] we compare his findings for solar metallicity and salpeter imf with mass limits 1  120 , to our model ( salpeter imf with mass limits 2  120 ) and fitting the ionising flux to the observed value .",
    "overall , the agreement between the models is quite satisfactory .",
    "our models predict a total galactic  mass of 1.7 , which due to cancellation of various differences , turns out to be very similar to the value of @xcite .",
    "no general consensus exists about the slope of the imf in young massive star associations and related objects ( see reviews in gilmore & howell 1998 ) .",
    "for example from an analysis of young open clusters and ob association in the milky way , @xcite derive an average slope of @xmath101 for stars with masses @xmath102 .",
    "for o stars within 2.5 kpc from the sun @xcite find @xmath103 . based on nir photometry of the massive cyg ob2 association",
    ", @xcite found a comparable slope of @xmath104 .",
    "finally , in his most recent revision @xcite , obtains @xmath105 for stars with masses @xmath106 , taking the scatter introduced by poisson noise and the dynamical evolution of star clusters into account .    throughout this work",
    "a salpeter imf slope ( @xmath107 ) has been used for our `` standard '' models .",
    "the dependence of our results on @xmath12 are illustrated subsequently .",
    "[ fig : alejimf ] shows the time - dependent  emissivity for assuming an imf slope of @xmath108 , @xmath109 , and @xmath110 .",
    "all three curves have been normalised to the mass transformed into stars in the mass range 2  120 m@xmath111 obviously , the structure in the time - evolution remains similar , but the importance of stellar wind ejecta with respect to supernova ejecta depends strongly on @xmath12 . for @xmath112 the stellar - wind  emissivity peak ( at @xmath113 myr ) is almost one magnitude larger than for the salpeter law , leading to a burst - like lightcurve that is dominated by stellar wind products .",
    "in contrast , for @xmath114 the stellar - wind emissivity is of the same level as the type ii supernova emissivity , leading to an almost 10 myrs lasting plateau in the lightcurve .",
    "interestingly the @xmath61 emissivity ratio @xmath62 and the equivalent o7  v star  yield  depend very little on the imf slope , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : imf ] .",
    "this is due to the fact that both the nucleosynthetic yield and the ionising flux show a similar dependence with initial mass .",
    "this finding indicates that the equivalent o7  v star  yield should be fairly reliable age indicator for young massive star associations . from fig .",
    "[ fig : imf ] we estimate a typical age uncertainty of @xmath115 myr due to imf variations , which is of the same order as typical uncertainties obtained for massive star associations by isochrone fitting . also , the imf variations are smaller than the dispersion introduced by statistical fluctuations in a finite sample , as we will demonstrate for realistic populations in section 5 ( cf .  fig .  [",
    "fig : pdfs ] right panel ) .",
    "before we proceed to the description of our technique which will be used in future applications to compare our model predictions with observations we shall briefly discuss potential uncertainties from stellar models which may affect our results .",
    "uncertainties arising from the choice of nucleosynthesis models have been discussed earlier ( sect .",
    "[ sec : yields ] ) and shall not be repeated here .",
    "the main uncertainties related to the stellar models included in our synthesis are likely the neglect of stellar rotation and the possible importance of massive close binary stars as sources of  production .",
    "rotation induces numerous dynamical instabilities in stellar interiors .",
    "the related mixing of the chemical species can deeply modify the chemical structure of a star and its evolution ( see the review by maeder & meynet 2000 ) , and may in particular have important consequences on the @xmath116al production by wr stars ( cf .",
    "arnould et al .",
    "1999 ) . at present",
    ", very few rotating wr models address this question in detail ( see langer et al .",
    "1995 for some preliminary results ) , so that it is certainly premature to quantitatively assess the possible role rotation plays in that respect .",
    "however , it seems safe to say that rotation increases the quantity of @xmath116al ejected by wr stellar winds ( see arnould et al.1999 ) .",
    "this statement is corroborated by the numerical simulations of @xcite which show that in case of fast rotation ,  production may be enhanced by factors of 2 to 3 with respect to non  rotating stars .",
    "an increase of  by a factor of @xmath1 1.5 over the non  rotating case was found recently by ringger ( 2000 ) for a 60 m@xmath111 model with an average rotational velocity during the main sequence of 170 km / s .",
    "rotation also lowers the minimum initial mass of single stars which can go through a wr stage .",
    "it is thus likely to increase the net amount of  ejected by wr stars in the ism .",
    "however , since in the present work we use stellar tracks with enhanced mass loss rates which , to a certain extent , mimic some effects of rotation , it may be expected that the inclusion of rotation will not drastically alter the present results .",
    "the case of binaries is more complicated .",
    "first of all the stellar physics is even more complex than in single stars , which adds numerous potential uncertainties .",
    "second the frequency of interacting massive close binaries and their exact scenario is poorly known .",
    "the importance of binaries in evolutionary synthesis models is therefore still difficult to assess ( e.g.  mas - hesse & cervio 1999 , vanveberen 1999 ) .    for the case of binary systems",
    "two effects must be taken into account : _",
    "1 ) _ tidal interactions in close binary systems , and _ 2 ) _ mass transfer by roche lobe overflow and the posterior evolution of the primary and secondary stars . before any mass transfer will occur tidal effects",
    "are expected to deform the star and therefore induce instabilities reminiscent of those induced by rotation . to our knowledge , the latter effect has never been studied , even if it might have important consequences , as for instance by homogenizing the stars and thus inhibiting any mass transfer .",
    "if mass transfer occurs , the removal of part of the envelope of the donor star may favour the appearance of  on the surface in a similar fashion as mass loss through stellar winds .",
    "more important changes may occur for the gainer in systems with primaries @xmath117 , as e.g.  shown by the preliminary studies of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the latter suggest for example a scenario in which mass transfer onto the secondary leads to a rejuvenation which alters its subsequent evolution . for this case",
    "they predict an increase by @xmath40 orders of magnitudes of the hydrostatically produced  yield due to a reduction of the delay between production and ejection of , which could possibly enhance the total   production from type ii supernovae by a factor of about 2 ( langer , priv .",
    "communication ) .",
    "an attempt to include the contribution of binaries to the production of  by a stellar population was presented by @xcite . given the limited knowledge on the evolution and nucleosynthesis from binary systems and the numerous potential uncertainties affecting these predictions , their contribution has deliberately been neglected in the present models . as for rotation , if all possible effects of binarity produce larger amounts of , our model predictions represent a lower limit for the  production .",
    "the model predictions presented in section [ sec : predictions ] have been calculated for an infinitely rich association of stars in order to avoid effects due to small number statistics , in particular at the high  mass end of the imf . in reality , however , galactic associations or open clusters have total stellar masses between a few @xmath118  ( bruch & sanders 1983 ) , limiting the number of o stars , i.e.  stars with initial masses above @xmath37 , to only a few objects .",
    "however , since these massive stars provide a considerable fraction of the nucleosynthesis yields and ionising power of the association , the early evolution of the system will depend rather sensitively on the actual distribution of stellar masses . in the following",
    "we will describe a bayesian method that allows to quantify the uncertainties introduced by a finite sample in our predictions .",
    "suppose we want to predict the gamma  ray luminosity and ionising flux from an association of age @xmath119 myr , which today contains 100 stars within an initial mass range of @xmath120 . at 5 myr , stars above @xmath121  already exploded as supernovae , but the population within @xmath120  should still be relatively unaffected by evolution .",
    "a possible initial population may then be estimated by randomly selecting stellar masses from a power ",
    "law imf of slope @xmath12 until the number of stars with masses between @xmath120  amounts to 100 ( cf .",
    "section [ sec : method ] ) .",
    "this population is then statistically identical to the initial population of the observed association , although it may differ in the exact distribution of stellar masses .",
    "repeating the sampling provides several possible initial realisations , and the statistical variations in the number and distribution of stars among these samples reflects then the ignorance about the precise initial conditions in the association .",
    "the calculation of evolutionary synthesis models for each of the samples provides then time  dependent model predictions , and the variations among the predictions reflect the uncertainty about the precise distribution of the initial stellar population .",
    "if the number of random samples and corresponding evolution synthesis models is sufficiently high the probability @xmath122 of observing at an age @xmath123 the value @xmath124 for quantity @xmath125 can be reasonably well approximated by @xmath126 where @xmath127 is the number of samples for which @xmath125 was comprised between @xmath124 and @xmath128 , and @xmath129 is the total number of samples .",
    "@xmath122 is called the probability density function ( pdf ) of @xmath125 at age @xmath123 .    for illustration , time  dependent probability density functions for the  emissivity and",
    "are shown for our example association in fig .",
    "[ fig : pdfs ] .",
    "the pdfs have been computed from 1000 monte carlo samples assuming an imf slope of @xmath30 . during the early evolution ( @xmath130 myrs ) ,",
    "both quantities are subject to considerable uncertainties which can be understood as the combined effect of comparable lifetime ,  yield mass dependence , and small number statistics at the high  mass end .",
    "as mentioned earlier , stars with initial mass between @xmath32  evolve on comparable timescales , providing contemporaneous  ejection in this mass range .",
    "yields , however , vary by almost one magnitude within this mass range , making the resulting  ejection rates crucially dependent on the particular spectrum of initial masses .",
    "consequently , the large statistical uncertainties in the mass spectrum at the high  mass end translates into a large uncertainty in the  emissivity and  during the early evolution of the population .    during the subsequent evolution ,",
    "the relative uncertainty in the derived quantities is roughly constant , with a minimum around @xmath131 myr followed by a slight rise of the uncertainty with time . to understand this behaviour , note that the relative uncertainty in the number @xmath132 of stars that contribute to  production within a time step is given by @xmath133 , hence the uncertainty increases with decreasing @xmath132",
    "indeed , for ages @xmath134 myr the  production is only due to sn explosions , and the slight decrease in the sn rate with time ( fig .",
    "[ fig : snr ] ) is at the origin of the uncertainty increase .",
    "note that this feature depends on the slope @xmath12 that is chosen for the stellar population : with a steeper imf the decline in the supernova rate would have been reduced ( or may even turn into an increase ) , and consequently the uncertainty increase would become negligible ( or might even turn into a decrease of the uncertainties ) .      in the above example we assumed that the number of stars within a given mass interval has been determined precisely , and that the slope @xmath12 of the association is known . both assumptions may not be valid in a realistic case .",
    "the determination of the association richness is certainly subject to some uncertainty , due to membership ambiguities , stellar confusion , or invisible members hidden by interstellar obscuration .",
    "uncertainties in both quantities can be easily included in the analysis by computing the conditional probability density function @xmath135 for a sufficiently fine grid of stellar richness @xmath132 and imf slope @xmath12 . the time ",
    "dependent association pdf is then calculated using @xmath136 where @xmath137 and @xmath138 are prior probability density functions quantifying the uncertainties in @xmath132 and @xmath12 .",
    "typically , the prior pdf could be a gaussian if the uncertainty is symmetric around a mean value , or a bounded constant if the uncertainty is specified as lower and upper limits .",
    "finally , to predict the characteristics of an association , the information about its actual age and its distance should be included in the analysis . in the above example",
    ", the age was estimated to @xmath119 myr , which again can be expressed by a prior pdf @xmath139 .",
    "marginalisation leads then to an age independent estimate @xmath140 equation [ eq : age ] can be seen as a smoothing operation applied to the time ",
    "dependent pdf over a limited age ",
    "window , specified by the width of the prior pdf . since our models are calculated for instantaneous star formation , eq .",
    "[ eq : age ] can also be interpreted as extending the star formation to a period which is defined by the width of the prior pdf . in this case , @xmath139 is the star formation law , and the age uncertainty is interpreted as an uncertainty in the star formation history .",
    "similarly , if the distance @xmath141 of the association is known ( to some uncertainty  of course ) , yields and ionising flux can be converted to gamma  ray and radio fluxes , using @xmath142 where @xmath143 is the prior pdf , and @xmath144 is the distance dependent flux pdf .",
    "thus , the final outcome of the evolutionary synthesis model is not a single value , but a probability density function , also called the _ posterior probability density function _ , that reflects all uncertainties related to the investigated association .",
    "two examples of such posterior pdfs are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : postpdfs ] for the 1.809 mev gamma  ray flux and the equivalent o7  v star  yield .",
    "the first example ( solid lines ) has been obtained by assuming an age uncertainty of @xmath119 myr , expressed by a gaussian prior pdf with mean of 5 myr and standard deviation of 1 myr . the second example ( dashed lines )",
    "has been derived for an age uncertainty of @xmath145 myr , described by a constant bounded prior pdf which is non ",
    "zero for the interval @xmath145 myr . to obtain",
    "the 1.809 mev flux from the  emissivity a distance of @xmath146 kpc has been assumed , implemented as a prior pdf of gaussian shape with mean of @xmath147 kpc and standard deviation of @xmath148 kpc .",
    "note that  is not subject to any distance uncertainty since it is defined as a flux ( or yield ) ratio for which the actual distance cancels out .",
    "in many cases , the resulting posterior pdf has approximately a gaussian shape , but the example of  using an age uncertainty of @xmath145 myr illustrates that the distribution may be much more complex .",
    "the posterior pdfs may then be used to address various questions about the investigated association .",
    "for example , the probability @xmath149 that the 1.809 mev flux is comprised in the interval @xmath150 $ ] is simply derived by integrating @xmath151 or , inverting the problem , one may derive the flux interval @xmath150 $ ] that contains @xmath152 of the probability distribution by solving @xmath153 and @xmath154 ( this definition is similar to the @xmath155 errors often quoted in classical statistics ) .",
    "the posterior pdfs may also be used to make predictions about the detectibility of an association by a gamma  ray instrument or radio telescope .",
    "if the instrument sensitivity is given as smallest detectible flux limit @xmath156 , the probability of detecting the association with the instrument is given by @xmath157",
    "we have constructed a new diagnostic tool for the study of the radioactive isotopes of  and  produced in massive star forming regions .",
    "the main aim of this work was to provide a quantitative model for the analysis of multi ",
    "wavelength observations of ob associations , open clusters and alike objects covering the range from gamma  rays ( e.g.  the 1.809 mev line of , 1.173 and 1.333 mev lines of ) to radio , and allowing in a fully quantitative manner to account for statistical richness effects of massive star populations and other observational uncertainties .    to achieve this goal we have used the evolutionary synthesis models of @xcite , which have been updated to include recent geneva stellar evolution tracks , new stellar atmospheres for ob and wr stars , and nucleosynthetic yields from massive stars during hydrostatic burning phases and explosive snii and snib events ( see sect .  2 ) .",
    "in particular proper care was taken to combine the stellar models including mass loss with appropriate presupernova and sn models .    the temporal evolution of the ejected quantity of  and  produced by a coeval population , other observables like the total ionising flux and the supernova rate , and derived properties is presented ( sect .  3 ) .",
    "this yields the following main results :    * the equivalent o7 v star  yield ( ) , defined as the stellar yield per ionising flux of an o7 v star ( kndlseder 1999 ) , shows a particularly strong time dependence where four main phases can be distinguished : stellar wind dominated phase ( @xmath0 3 myr ) , sn ib dominated phase ( @xmath1 37 myr ) , sn ii dominated phase ( @xmath1 737 myr ) , and exponential decay phase ( @xmath2 37 myr ) .",
    "the exact age range of each phase is dependent on the evolutionary tracks and the lower mass limit of wr stars . *",
    "the use of  is a powerful tool to constrain the evolutionary status of star forming regions .",
    "this parameter is obtained from a combined observation of the @xmath158ray line and the ionising flux ( for example in form of thermal free  free radio emission ) of an association .",
    "*  production starts with a delay of @xmath1 2 myr with respect to  production .",
    "the ratio of the /  emissivities is also an age indicator that constrains the contribution of explosive nucleosynthesis to the total  production .",
    "calculations for a steady state population ( constant star formation ; sect .",
    "3.5 ) at solar metallicity predict the following relative contributions to the   production : @xmath3 from stars before the wr phase , @xmath4 from wr stars , @xmath5 from sn  ib , and @xmath6 from sn  ii .",
    "the large contribution from stellar wind ejection ( @xmath1 42 % ) confirms earlier studies of mapp97 and @xcite using similar yields , who predict contributions of 2070 % and @xmath1 40 % respectively . for",
    "we estimate that @xmath7 are produced by sn  ib while @xmath8 come from sn  ii .",
    "normalising on the total ionising flux of the galaxy , we predict total production rates of @xmath159myr@xmath9 and @xmath160myr@xmath9 for  and , respectively .",
    "this corresponds to 1.5  of  and 1.7  of  in the present interstellar medium .",
    "as for other chemical evolution models , our calculations depend directly on the adopted nucleosynthetic yields , which are affected by considerable uncertainties ( see e.g.  prantzos 1999 ) .",
    "the main uncertainties regarding  and  have been discussed in sects .  2 and 4 .",
    "in fact important new insight especially on the physics of supernovae is expected from the study of radioactive isotopes such as  and @xmath161ti , which are synthesised in deep layers close to the so  called mass cut separating the outer regions from the remnant .",
    "such studies should also benefit from the present models .",
    "last , but not least , we have presented a bayesian approach to quantify the predicted observables and their uncertainty related to richness effects of the imf in terms of probability density functions ( sect .",
    "[ sec : realistic ] ) .",
    "subsequently these functions can be used in combination with prior knowledge on observed objects ( e.g.  age , distance , and their uncertainties ) to calculate detection probabilities and alike quantities .",
    "we have already successfully applied our models to existing multi wavelength observations of the cygnus and vela regions .",
    "the results will be published in companion papers ( kndlseder et al .",
    ", in preparation ; lavraud et al . , in preparation ) .",
    "our tools will be ideal to fully exploit the gamma ",
    "ray line observations expected from the upcoming _ integral _ satellite .    financial support from the `` gdr galaxies '' and the `` programme national de physique stellaire '' is acknowledged .",
    "we also acknowledge the comments form an anonymous referee .",
    "mc is supported by an esa fellowship .",
    "arnould , m. , meynet , g. , and mowlavi , n. , 1999 , chemical geology , in press ( astro  ph/9911450 ) arnould , m. , paulus , g. , and meynet , g. , 1997 , a&a , 321 , 452 bennett , c.l . ,",
    "fixsen , d.j . ,",
    "hinshaw , g. , mather , j.c . , moseley , s.h . ,",
    "wright , e.l . ,",
    "eplee , r.e . ,",
    "gales , j. , hewagama , t. , isaacman , r.b . , shafer , r.a . and turpie , k. , apj , 434 , 587 braun h. , and langer n. , 1995 , a&a , 297 , 483 bruch , a. , and sanders , w.l .",
    ", 1983 , a&a , 121 , 237 cervio , m. , and mas - hesse , j.m . , 1994 , a&a , 284 , 749 cervio , m. , mas - hesse , j.m . , and kunth , d. 2000a , a&a , submitted ( http://www.laeff.esa.es/@xmath162mcs/model ) cervio , m. , luridiana , v. and castander , f. , 2000b , a&a ltters , 360 , l5 foellmi , c. , 1997 , diploma thesis , geneva observatory garmany , c.d . , conti , p.s . , and chiosi , c. 1982 , apj , 263 , 777 gilmore , g. , and howell , d. , eds .",
    ", 1998 , `` the stellar initial mass function '' , asp conf .",
    "series , vol .",
    "142 kndlseder , j. , 1999 , apj , 510 , 915 kndlseder , j. , 2000 , a&a , 360 , 539 kndlseder , j. , bennett , k. , bloemen , h. , diehl , r. , hermsen , w. , oberlack , u. , ryan , j. , schnfelder , v. , and von ballmoos , p. , 1999a",
    ", a&a , 344 , 68 kroupa p. , 2000 , mnras in press ( astro  ph/0009005 ) kroupa p. , tout c.a . and gilmore g. , 1993 , mnras 262 , 545 langer , n. , braun , h. , and fliegner , j. , 1995 , apss , 224 , 275 langer , n. , braun , h. , and wellenstein , s. , 1998 , in : proceedings of the 9@xmath163 workshop on nuclear astrophysics , eds .  w.  hillebrandt & e.  mller , p.  18",
    "limongi , m. , chieffi , a. , and straniero , o. , 2000 , a&a ( submitted ) maeder , a. , 1992 , a&a , 264 , 105 maeder , a. , and meynet , g. , 1994 , a&a , 287 , 803 maeder a. and meynet g. , 2000 , araa , 38 , in press ( astro - ph/0004204 ) mas - hesse , j.m . , and cervio , 1999 , iau symp 193 , p.550 mas - hesse , j.m . , and kunth , d. ,  1999 , a&a , 349 , 765 massey , p. , johnson , k.e . , and degioia - eastwood , k. 1995 , apj , 454 , 151 mckee , c.f . and williams , j.p .",
    ", 1997 , apj , 476 , 144 meynet g. , 1995 . _ astron .",
    "_ 298:76783 meynet , g. , maeder , a. schaller , g. , schaerer , d. and charbonnel , c. , 1994 , a&a , 103 , 97 meynet , g. , arnould , m. , prantzos , n. , and paulus , g. , 1997 , a&a , 320 , 460 ( mapp97 ) oey , m.s . and clarke , c.j . , 1998 , aj , 115 , 1543 plschke , s. , diehl , r. , hartmann , d.h . and oberlack ,",
    "u. , 2000 , a&a , submitted ( astro - ph/0005372 ) portinari , l. , chiosi , c. , and bressan , a. , 1998 , a&a , 334 , 505 prantzos , n. , 1999 , in `` massive stars and interactions with the ism '' , eds .",
    "d. schaerer , r. gonzlez delgado , new astronomy reviews , in press ( astro - ph/9912203 ) prantzos , n. , and diehl , r. , 1996 , phys .  rep . , 267 , 1 ringger d. , 2000 , diploma thesis , geneva observatory sakhibov , f. and smirnov , m.  2000 , a&a , 354 , 802 schaller , g. , schaerer , d. , meynet , g. and maeder , a. , 1992 , a&as , 96 , 269 schaerer , d. , contini , t. and kunth , d. , 1999 , a&a , 341 , 399 schaerer , d. , and vacca , w.d . , 1998 , apj , 497 , 618 schaerer , d. , and de koter , a. , 1997 , a&a , 322 , 598 schmutz , w. , leitherer , c. , and gruenwald , r. , 1992 , pasp , 104 , 1164 thielemann , f .- k . , nomoto , k. , and hashimoto , m .- a . , 1996 , apj , 460 , 408 timmes , f.x",
    ". , and woosley , s.e . , 1997 , apj , 481 , l81 timmes , f.x . , woosley , s.e . ,",
    "hartmann , d.h . ,",
    "hoffman , r.d . , weaver , t.a . , and matteucci , f. , 1995 , apj , 449 , 204 vacca , w.d . , 1994 , apj , 421 , 140 vanveberen d. , 1999 , iau symp 193 , p.196 woosley , s.e .",
    ", and heger , a. , 1999 , in : astronomy with radioactivities , mpe report 274 , p.  133",
    "woosley , s.e . ,",
    "langer , n. , and weaver , t. ,  1995 , apj , 448 , 315 ( wlw95 ) woosley , s.e . , and weaver , t. , 1995 , apjs , 101 , 181 ( ww95 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have developed a new diagnostic tool for the study of gamma  ray emission lines from radioactive isotopes ( such as  and ) in conjunction with other multi  wavelength observables of galactic clusters , associations , and alike objects . </S>",
    "<S> our evolutionary synthesis models are based on the code of @xcite , which has been updated to include recent stellar evolution tracks , new stellar atmospheres for ob and wr stars , and nucleosynthetic yields from massive stars during hydrostatic burning phases and explosive sn  ii and sn  ib events .    </S>",
    "<S> the temporal evolution of  and  production , the equivalent yield of  per ionising o7  v star ( ) , and other observables are predicted for a coeval population . </S>",
    "<S> the main results are :    * the emission of the  1.809 mev line is characterised by four phases : stellar wind dominated phase ( @xmath0 3 myr ) , sn  ib dominated phase ( @xmath1 37 myr ) , sn  ii dominated phase ( @xmath1 737 myr ) , and exponential decay phase ( @xmath2 37 myr ) . * </S>",
    "<S> the equivalent yield  is an extremely sensitive age indicator for the stellar population which can be used to discriminate between wolf  </S>",
    "<S> rayet star and sn  ii  nucleosynthesis in the association . * </S>",
    "<S> the ratio of the /  emissivity is also an age indicator that constrains the contribution of explosive nucleosynthesis to the total  production .    </S>",
    "<S> we also employed our model to estimate the steady state nucleosynthesis of a population of solar metallicity . in agreement with other works , </S>",
    "<S> we predict the following relative contributions to the  production : @xmath3 from stars before the wr phase , @xmath4 from wr stars , @xmath5 from sn  ib , and @xmath6 from sn  ii . </S>",
    "<S> for  we estimate that @xmath7 are produced by sn  ib while @xmath8 come from sn  ii . </S>",
    "<S> normalising on the total ionising flux of the galaxy , we predict total production rates of 1.5  myr@xmath9 and 0.8   myr@xmath9 for  and , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> this corresponds to 1.5  of  and 1.7  of  in the present interstellar medium .    to allow for a fully quantitative analysis of existing and future multi  </S>",
    "<S> wavelength observations , we propose a bayesian approach that allows the inclusion of imf richness effects and observational uncertainties in the analysis . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , a monte carlo technique is adopted to estimate probability distributions for all observables of interest . </S>",
    "<S> we outline the procedure of exploiting these distributions by applying our model to a fictive massive star association . </S>",
    "<S> applications to existing observations of the cygnus and vela regions will be discussed in companion papers . </S>"
  ]
}