{
  "article_text": [
    "we present our review of galactic fountains and winds by emphasizing the different starting points and concepts that have led to its description .",
    "this stresses the underlying _ physical ideas _ and _ pictures _ , but is accomplished at the expense of not giving due credit to _ all the individuals _ that have contributed so much over the years , and to whom we apologize .",
    "to our knowledge shapiro & field ( 1976 , henceforth sf76 ) were the first to coin the term `` galactic fountain '' .",
    "it is interesting to note , that the idea developed in an effort to explain two key observations of a new hot interstellar phase as two different phenomena of the same plasma , viz .  the ubiquitous interstellar ovi line detected with copernicus ( jenkins & meloy , 1974 ) and the 1/4 kev soft x - ray background ( sxrb ; williamson et al . , 1974 ) .",
    "an outcome of these and subsequent investigations , however , was that these two observations should sample different regions in the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "such a conclusion is based on the assumption of collisional ionization equilibrium ( cie ) , and as we shall see , need not be as stringent as hitherto thought .",
    "sf76 investigated two cases : a steady state and a time - dependent cooling model .",
    "they used the ovi density @xmath0 as inferred from copernicus , assuming cie ; the fractional ionization @xmath1 is fixed for each temperature @xmath2 .",
    "likewise , the emissivity @xmath3 in a given energy band is constant , and the sxrb intensity in the galactic plane is @xmath4 .",
    "apart from @xmath2 , the only free parameter is the volume filling factor @xmath5 of the hot component , which together generate a set of curves for the pressure @xmath6 . for all admissible values of @xmath7 , @xmath8 , which is obviously in contradiction with the ovi line widths , which indicate that a substantial fraction of the gas is _ below",
    "_ @xmath9 k. a possible solution of this problem is that the assumption of steady - state , which enforces a global pressure equilibrium , is not valid . for",
    "if it were true , then a very efficient cooling mechanism of the shock heated plasma should exist .",
    "for an adopted value of @xmath10 k , the model requires @xmath11 and @xmath12 from which a cooling time of @xmath13 years results , an order of magnitude larger , as it were , than the reheating time of a gas element of @xmath9 years by supernova remnants ( snrs ) ( cox & smith , 1974 ) .",
    "heat conduction in the ism is also not efficient enough , and in our view in general overrated in its importance due to the efficient reduction of the mean free path of thermal electrons by even very modest magnetic field strengths - a point that was always emphasized by franz kahn .",
    "this leaves convection as the most efficient way of removing thermal energy from the disk .    the previous arguments , although essentially correct , are largely model dependent ( e.g.  on the filling factor for the hot gas ) , and one can strengthen the argument for convection , following the analysis first given by franz kahn ( 1981 ) . owing to the fact that the hot intercloud medium ( him ) , as deduced from the ovi absorption line data , must have a scale height largely exceeding that of the warm and cool medium",
    ", one can ask if such a hot galactic corona can be in hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "the gas will settle down in equilibrium if the dynamical relaxation time scale , @xmath14 , is less than the cooling time scale , @xmath15 .",
    "defining the adiabatic parameter by @xmath16 , kahn s ( 1976 ) cooling law to @xmath13 k , @xmath17 , which results in an integrating factor for the time - dependent energy equation . ]",
    "states : @xmath18 , with @xmath19 , and thus @xmath20 . for @xmath21 , @xmath22 , with @xmath23 , being the @xmath24-component of the gravitational acceleration towards the disk , and @xmath25 and @xmath26 denote the speed of sound in the hot medium and the ratio of specific heats , respectively . for a pressure and density of the corona of @xmath27 and @xmath28 ,",
    "the above inequality is heavily violated by one order of magnitude .",
    "does that rule out",
    "hydrostatic halo models once and for all ? to answer this",
    ", the equilibrium condition is rewritten as @xmath29 or @xmath30 .",
    "the rhs does only vary with galactic radius @xmath31 , since @xmath32 ( kahn , 1981 ) , provided that @xmath33 .",
    "thus for a fixed equilibrium pressure @xmath34 , the outcome depends heavily on @xmath25 , and therefore on the respective values of @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "in other words , although for `` standard '' him values the halo should be _ dynamic _ , hydrostatic solutions may be possible for high temperatures and/or low densities .",
    "physically this means that the him is too hot to be confined by the gravitational field to a thin layer , rising into the halo towards a `` thick disk '' . however , radiative cooling is too strong in order to attain an equilibrium configuration , unless there is heavy depletion in metals .",
    "a crude picture of fountain dynamics was given by sf76 , and considerably refined and improved by kahn ( 1981 ) .",
    "the uprising gas will move subsonically a distance @xmath37 , with @xmath38 , or @xmath39 kpc for @xmath40 km / s . at height",
    "@xmath41 thermal instabilities will promote cloud formation .",
    "the clouds travel ballistically until their kinetic energy is used up at roughly a distance @xmath42 @xmath43 kpc , and gravity pulls them back to the disk , which in a 1d fountain is the point of origin of the hot gas . disregarding halo magnetic fields",
    ", there is no drag on the clouds and they will strike the disk at a velocity @xmath44 , and may tentatively be identified with the so - called high velocity clouds ( hvcs ) , studied in absorption towards background stars ( s.  wakker & van woerden , 1997 ) . the mass flux of hot gas into the halo is roughly @xmath45 .",
    "sf76 used slightly different him values , i.e.  @xmath46 and @xmath47 km / s , which yields @xmath48 for @xmath49 , in rough agreement with the observationally detected hvc flux .",
    "ovi absorption line widths show ( jenkins & meloy , 1974 ) that almost one third of the gas has temperatures below @xmath50 k. in the frame of the steady - state model sf76 could show that @xmath51 , implying a number density @xmath52 .",
    "in fact , it turns out that for values of @xmath53 the radiative cooling time is less than the snr reheating time .",
    "therefore shapiro & moore ( 1976 ) calculated time - dependent cooling models .",
    "it is concluded that subsequent adiabatic expansion would not allow the plasma to spend enough time in the energy range of 1/4 kev x - ray emission .",
    "spectra of isochoric cooling are presented only down to a temperature of @xmath54 k. however , more recent calculations of the sxrb , including the dynamical effects of expansion and time - dependent cooling in a self - consistent fashion , show that the emergent x - ray spectrum down to a temperature of @xmath55 k is still reminiscent of a @xmath9 k gas , copiously emitting photons at 1/4 kev by delayed recombination ( breitschwerdt & schmutzler , 1994 )",
    ". we will come back to this point below .",
    "a completely different approach was taken by bregman ( 1980 ) , who analyzed the hvc flow and simulated it by a 2d axisymmetric hydrodynamical model .",
    "although distances of hvcs are poorly known in general , they appear as prominent chains on the sky covering a fraction of more than 10% . as",
    "the observed hvc mass flux is in excess of @xmath56 , the integrated hvc mass over a hubble time is larger than the present disk mass .",
    "the most likely explanations are that ( i ) if hvcs are accreted , the process is intermittent or ( ii ) if the source of the hvcs is the disk gas itself , then it enters a cycle of upwards motion , cooling , condensing and raining back onto the disk .",
    "the main ingredients of the model are ( i ) a realistic gravitational potential , consisting of a bulge , disk and a spherically symmetric dark matter halo component , ( ii ) galactic rotation and therefore conservation of angular momentum , and ( iii ) equilibrium cooling",
    ". in particular rotation has some interesting effects , notably that the disk and halo are not in corotation , for the following reason .",
    "let @xmath57 be the position dependent rotational frequency of the differentially rotating galactic disk , so that a gas element has specific angular momentum @xmath58 .",
    "centrifugal force balance , @xmath59 , and conservation of angular momentum require @xmath60 , where @xmath61 is the gravitational acceleration now depending on @xmath62 and @xmath24 .",
    "since @xmath61 decreases with height @xmath24 , the uprising gas will also move radially outwards .",
    "it has been shown however , that inclusion of a magnetic field , anchored in the gaseous disk , can enforce corotation of the halo due to magnetic stresses up to the alfvnic critical point , typically at a vertical distance of a few kiloparsecs ( zirakashvili et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "additional radial motion in bregman s model is generated by a radial pressure gradient in the disk , inferred from pressure equilibrium between the hot , warm and cold ism phases , @xmath63 , decreasing with galactocentric radius beyond 6 kpc .",
    "once clouds have formed they lose pressure support and move ballistically . in summary ,",
    "the favoured model takes as input a density and temperature at the base of the corona of @xmath64 and @xmath65 . according to the simulations",
    ", the gas travels 2 - 3 times its original radial position and @xmath66 kpc in height before clouds are formed , returning to the disk @xmath67 yr thereafter .",
    "the mass flux onto the disk is @xmath68 and the total mass of the corona is @xmath69 .",
    "the crude distribution of hvcs , in particular a chain - like appearance , can be reproduced .",
    "there are other interpretations of the hvc phenomenon than the galactic fountain , and at least two more processes are needed for explaining the outer arm extension and the magellanic stream ( for a detailed discussion see wakker & van woerden , 1997 ) .      according to francis crick , `` a theory that agrees with all the data at any given time is necessarily wrong , as at any given time not all the data are correct . ''",
    "there lies the advantage of an analytical fountain model , because it concentrates on only the most important observational facts  subject to personal judgment  in order to gain a physical understanding of the basic processes involved .",
    "franz kahn was a master in this respect , and his seminal paper ( kahn , 1981 ) shows this impressively .",
    "he must have certainly disliked `` cartoon physics '' , as there is no single figure within 28  pages ( two tables is all the superficial reader can hope for ) , but instead everything is developed mathematically _",
    "ab ovo_. first he derives a useful approximation for the gravitational potential , consisting of a flat disk and a spherical halo distribution , ascribing the latter to population  ii objects ; interestingly , dark matter is not mentioned .",
    "next he analyses the cooling of the hot gas streaming away from the disk , and shows that for a wide and most likely range of him parameters , such as @xmath35 and @xmath36 , a hydrostatic equilibrium does not exist ( cf .  section  [ him1 ] ) . in the next step the heat input by supernovae ( sne ) is discussed , assuming that sne occur randomly over the whole disk and the ambient medium is cool and has uniform density @xmath70 . by overestimating @xmath70 , the effect of him heating is underestimated , since the adiabatic parameter @xmath71 increases with decreasing density , and it is the gas with the highest values of @xmath71 which takes longest to cool .",
    "heat conduction being unimportant , an element of fluid retains its value @xmath72 once it was shocked , until cooling becomes severe .    for illustration",
    ", it is shown how neatly one can calculate the mass of hot gas contributed to the him by a single snr .",
    "starting out with the sedov solution for snrs , @xmath73 with @xmath74 , and using strong shock conditions @xmath75 and @xmath76 , where @xmath77 and @xmath78 are the post - shock pressure and density , respectively , we find that @xmath79 .",
    "the accumulated mass behind the shock is @xmath80 , and therefore we obtain the important result that @xmath81 .",
    "the remnant cools fastest in the outer parts , since the post - shock temperature @xmath82 is lower in the more recently shocked gas , because the shock speed drops as @xmath83 , and @xmath84 .",
    "so when radiative cooling sets in , there are still parts of the remnant which have @xmath85 , and which retain hot material .",
    "the mass that an individual remnant roughly contributes to the him can be evaluated in the following way .",
    "@xmath86 , from which by integration follows for the volume occupied by the mass @xmath87 : @xmath88 , and thus the smoothed out density of the still hot gas is @xmath89 . for @xmath90 and @xmath91 ,",
    "one obtains @xmath92 ( all in cgs units).therefore the mass per sn contributed to the him is @xmath93 , for @xmath94 erg .",
    "there is one further assumption that enters here : the calculation only holds as long as different parts of the gas do not mix ; however at some stage the hot gas becomes part of the him , and it is assumed that mixing will then occur instantaneously , with an energy injection of @xmath95 .",
    "the cooling time for this gas is about @xmath96 years , much larger than the time needed for a snr to come into pressure equilibrium with the him , and therefore the gas must expand into the halo . for a galactic sn rate of @xmath97 ,",
    "the mass flux into the fountain on either side is @xmath98 .",
    "next we have a look at the fountain flow . for lack of space",
    ", we will restrict ourselves to a qualitative discussion .",
    "clearly , in a dynamical halo radial motion of the gas is suppressed , if the vertical dominates the radial pressure gradient .",
    "the fountain described in the following is strictly one - dimensional .",
    "physically the flow is controlled by the processes of energy injection at the base , radiative cooling and gravitational pull .",
    "in contrast to bregman s ( 1980 ) fountain , the cooling time is ten times shorter due to the higher initial density , and therefore the characteristic cooling length is much shorter than the maximum height of the fountain .",
    "once cooling occurs energy losses become catastrophic , and one can divide the flow into two distinct regions : in the lower fountain cooling dominates and gravity is unimportant , and vice versa in the upper fountain , where the gas moves ballistically .    in the lower part ,",
    "conservation of mass , momentum and energy of a steady flow , ensures the existence of a critical layer , where the flow becomes transsonic . for @xmath99 the sonic point",
    "is located at @xmath100 .",
    "the gas keeps on losing thermal energy beyond @xmath41 and at a distance of @xmath101 from there the flow becomes pressureless , and reaches terminal velocity @xmath102 . in the upper part , at roughly 1 kpc above the galactic plane , gravity determines the maximum height by the implicit equation @xmath103 , which gives @xmath104 ; thus the ballistic region is about six times as large as the cooling region .",
    "the rise time to @xmath105 is @xmath106 or @xmath107 yrs .",
    "once the flow reverses in a 1d - model it has to interact with the upward flow .",
    "the gas in the descending sheet is so cool that its sound speed is much lower than the downward flow velocity @xmath108 . applying the equation of motion and conservation of mass and momentum",
    ", it can be deduced that @xmath109 .",
    "the gas moving upwards joins the sheet after passing through a shock , leading to a reduced effective gravitational acceleration @xmath110 .",
    "it can be shown that the cooling of the shock heated gas is so fast that gravity does not have any effect on its structure .",
    "the thickness of the cooling layer is @xmath111 , which is indeed very thin .",
    "is the flow just described stable against linear perturbations ?",
    "it is easy to show that in the plane parallel case no growing modes exist .",
    "this can be understood as follows : moving the sheet ahead of its zero - order location increases gravity , but this is over - compensated by the momentum pick - up from the ascending flow , so that as a whole the sheet is decelerated .",
    "however , here is a serious draw - back of the 1d - calculation . in a 2d - case ,",
    "it is very likely that the descending sheet will become rayleigh - taylor unstable due to the rising gas from below , which now does not need to pass through an orderly shock . instead",
    ", the sheet can fragment , and the uprising gas will rather interact with downwards moving _",
    "clouds_. on the other hand , if a disk - parallel magnetic field is present in the halo , then it would have a stabilizing effect .",
    "in addition the cooling layer will be puffed up by magnetic pressure support , becoming thicker than the radiating layer .",
    "whereas small scale disturbances can grow to large amplitude they would only cause a corrugation of the bottom surface of the sheet , and disturbances with wavelengths of the order of the sheet would be prevented from growing , because the distorted shock would stabilize it .",
    "thus at the level of this analysis , the sheet structure is disturbed but not destroyed .    in subsequent papers , franz kahn investigated the effects of the magnetic field in more detail , in particular the possibility of a fountain dynamo ( kahn & brett , 1993 ) .",
    "the most important improvements , however , he worked out shortly before his death ( kahn , 1998 ) , when he described , again analytically , sn explosions in a hot rarefied medium like in superbubbles .",
    "he shows that subsequent off - centre explosions can still be described by concentric similarity solutions , because the shock wave advances rapidly through the rarefied medium and spends most of the time propagating through the outer shell , where the bulk of the mass sits . the dynamical effect on the ism is largest , if snrs expand in the him , because radiative cooling is less important than adiabatic cooling .",
    "these considerations led to the 3d fountain calculations of avillez ( 1998 ) , in which it is shown , that once the ism is disturbed by explosions it will never return to the original state , but after some time a frothy disk of half - thickness 1 kpc will develop .",
    "mixing with cooler gas generates shear and turbulence and the fountain is far from smooth .",
    "these calculations represent an important step forward , but need to be pursued further to include the effects of magnetic fields in conjunction with grid refinement ( in order to resolve small scale structures that are present ) , and above all to include non - equilibrium cooling .",
    "the importance of the latter will be discussed in the next section .",
    "it is generally believed that galactic winds in normal spiral galaxies do not play a significant rle during the galactic evolution .",
    "the argument is based on the high temperature in the disk - halo interface needed for thermal winds ; e.g.  habe & ikeuchi ( 1980 ) estimate that @xmath112 k near the solar circle , if @xmath64 .",
    "however , this completely ignores the dynamical effects of the non - thermal component of the ism , i.e.  the cosmic rays ( crs ) , which have a local energy density comparable to the thermal plasma .",
    "moreover , crs are coupled to the thermal gas , via frozen - in magnetic field lines , having a gyroradius of only @xmath113/b[\\mu{\\rm g}]\\ , { \\rm cm}$ ] , with @xmath114 being the rigidity ( @xmath115 and @xmath116 are the momentum and nuclear charge of the particle , respectively ) .",
    "the effective propagation speed of the crs through the ism is drastically reduced from the speed of light , @xmath117 , to the alfvn speed , @xmath118 km / s in the him , because crs strongly interact with magnetic field fluctuations @xmath119 .",
    "in particular , if the wavelength of perturbations is of the order of the gyroradius , crs suffer strong scattering in pitch angle and perform a random walk through the plasma , usually described by a diffusion process .",
    "it is known from the measurement of secondary cr unstable isotopes like @xmath120be , that the bulk of crs leaves the galaxy after about @xmath121 yrs , and therefore there exists a spatial gradient in the cr distribution function .",
    "it has been shown that a small scale anisotropy of pitch angle distribution in the wave frame results in a so - called streaming instability , leading to a resonant generation of waves in order to remove the cause of the instability .",
    "mckenzie & vlk ( 1982 ) have shown that this effect can be described in a hydrodynamic fashion by a cr pressure gradient , @xmath122 .",
    "the overall effect is a net momentum transfer from crs to the gas via waves as a mediator , pushing away the gas from the disk into the halo .",
    "it has been demonstrated that in a flux tube model , including a realistic bulge / disk and dark matter halo gravitational potential , this process can lead to a secular mass loss of gas ( along with crs ) of the order of @xmath123 , given an initial density of @xmath124 , @xmath125 , @xmath126 ( breitschwerdt et al . , 1991 ) .",
    "to be a bit more specific , it is assumed that there exists a magnetic field component perpendicular to the disk , like e.g. in ngc@xmath1274631 , with @xmath128 , bounding the flux tubes . in order to ensure strong coupling between crs and gas",
    ", the level of wave turbulence @xmath129 can be quite small ; in fact , non - linear landau damping can limit wave growth , leading to dissipative plasma heating ( zirakashvili et al .",
    ", 1996 ; ptuskin et al . ,",
    "1997 ) .",
    "as it turns out in the steady state model , the combined pressure forces of gas and crs can drive an outflow to infinity above a cr diffusion region of height @xmath130 kpc , and there exists a subsonic - supersonic transition in the flow , like in kahn s fountain , if the total pressure at the critical point exceeds the intergalactic pressure , @xmath131 . for finite @xmath131",
    "there must be a termination shock at a distance roughly given by @xmath132 , or @xmath133 , for @xmath134 km / s and @xmath135 . in clusters of galaxies ,",
    "@xmath131 can be large enough to quench steady - state winds ( vlk et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "the importance of crs is a consequence of their basically infinite scale height and that they are not subject to cooling except adiabatic energy losses by @xmath136-work . like in the case of the galactic fountain ,",
    "the specific enthalpy of the gas ( and the crs ) supplied at the base of the flow determines the structure of the wind . in spirals",
    ", we can crudely assume that there are _ global _ outflows , wherever hot gas percolates through the extended hi and hii layers , and _ local _ outflows , driven by one or more superbubbles . a typical local outflow , which might produce part of the sxrb , is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig - lgw ] .",
    "note that in fig .",
    "[ fig - lgw]b a snapshot of the emissivity of the expanding wind is taken when the kinetic temperature is already down to @xmath137 k , and most of the emission is due to _ delayed recombination _",
    "( breitschwerdt & schmutzler , 1994 ; 1999 ) , because collisional excitation of lines in the soft x - rays is impossible .",
    "here another word of caution has to be added . in the literature one can frequently find hydrodynamical calculations including `` non - equilibrium '' cooling , like e.g.  in houck & bregman ( 1990 ) for a low - temperature galactic fountain , who give a `` non - equilibrium cooling function '' for a gas with cosmic abundances in the energy range @xmath138 k. it is argued that the error by ignoring the detailed ionization structure is small , because the total emitted power should be roughly constant .",
    "it is clear that if one is interested in the emergent spectrum , the distribution of ionization stages can not be neglected . but",
    "more importantly , such an assumption ignores the dynamical and thermal coupling of the plasma . in an expanding plasma like",
    "a fountain or wind , the dynamical time scale can be shorter than the ones for ionization and recombination .",
    "therefore the cooling function evolves in time and has to be calculated _ self - consistently _ with the dynamical and thermal structure of the plasma at each time - step ( breitschwerdt & schmutzler , 1999 ) .",
    "the existence of galactic winds is most obvious in starburst galaxies , and for some reason these winds have been coined `` superwinds '' .",
    "they are most easily detected in the optical and x - ray spectral region . in x",
    "- rays they show up by their spatial extent ( excellently traced by the rosat hri instrument ; trmper 1983 ) and characteristic emission line spectra ( detected with asca ) , and many superwinds have been found in recent years in starburst galaxies ( e.g. , ngc2146 , ngc4945 , ngc4666 , mrk1259 , ngc2782 , ngc1365 , ngc3079 ) and mergers ( e.g. , arp299 , ngc6240 ) .",
    "prominent examples are m@xmath12782 and ngc@xmath127253 , which have been reported to be underabundant in heavy elements ( e.g.  ptak et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "it seems to us that this is an artifact and more likely a consequence of non - equilibrium cooling , which must be very strong due to the high flow speeds ( e.g.  @xmath139 km / s in m@xmath12782 ) .",
    "preliminary calculations have shown that indeed the collisional excitation of the fe - k@xmath140 line in a fast expanding wind is weak .    in active galactic nuclei ( agn ) ,",
    "winds are expected to develop in the central region .",
    "they may play an important rle in agn unification schemes and are linked in some way or the other to the ` central engine ' : firstly , winds are expected to form in relation to accretion disks , removing angular momentum of the accreted matter .",
    "several mechanisms have been explored to drive the wind , like centrifugal forces or radiation pressure ( e.g. , knigl & kartje , 1994 , murray et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "secondly , near - nuclear dusty gas is very sensitive to radiation pressure and strong winds will be driven this way ( e.g. , pier & voit , 1995 ) .",
    "components of the active nucleus that contain dust are the putative molecular torus and/or the so - called dusty ` warm absorbers ' ( see komossa et al . , these proceedings ) .",
    "in particular , there are both , observational indications ( see , e.g. , the case of ngc4051 ; komossa , 1999 ) and theoretical expectations ( e.g. , krolik & kriss , 1995 ) that this warm material is not in ionization equilibrium , whereas this assumption is usually imposed when modelling warm absorbers .",
    "thirdly , on kiloparsec scales , outflows could originate when agn - driven jets entrain and heat gas as they make their way out of the galaxy ( colbert et al . , 1998 ) .",
    "galactic outflows can be divided into fountains and winds , depending on whether some of the mass is lost in a secular fashion or not .",
    "observationally , the difference is hard to tell by just looking at the rising gas , because one should be able to measure velocity and density _",
    "gradients_. but only if the flow were steady - state one would be able to discriminate .",
    "however , it is very likely that outflows are _ time - dependent _ , since a typical flow time of @xmath141 years is larger than the life time of superbubbles , the most efficient driving sources .",
    "nonetheless , substantial progress will be made with high - resolution x - ray spectroscopy by axaf and xmm , because the dynamical signature of hot outflowing gas will be present in the spectra due to the non - equilibrium ionization structure .",
    "clearly , high - velocity clouds should be a consequence of fountain return flows .",
    "fountains and winds are _ not _ mutually exclusive , but rather represent different _ modes _ of outflow , realized by different initial conditions in density , temperature , cr pressure and magnetic field strength and topology near the disk . if for some reason , cr coupling to the plasma is lost and cr diffusion dominates advection , a fountain will ensue ( breitschwerdt et al . , 1993 )",
    ", coexisting with a wind flow nearby .",
    "finally , outflows are an essential phase in galaxy evolution , because they prevent the reheating catastrophe of the disk and thus make star formation a continuous process . in particular winds",
    "take away a significant fraction of chemically enriched material over a hubble time .",
    "0.3 cm db acknowledges financial support from the _ deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft _ by a heisenberg fellowship .",
    "avillez , m.a .",
    "phd thesis , university of vora , 1998 .",
    "bregman , j.n .",
    "1980 , apj 236 , 577 breitschwerdt , d. , mckenzie , j.f . , vlk , h.j .",
    "1991 , a&a 245 , 79 breitschwerdt , d. , mckenzie , j.f .",
    ", vlk , h.j .",
    "1993 , a&a 269 , 54 breitschwerdt , d. , schmutzler , t. 1994 , nature 371 , 774 breitschwerdt , d. , schmutzler , t. 1999 , a&a 347 , 650 colbert e.j.m . ,",
    "baum s.a . ,",
    "odea c.p . ,",
    "veilleux s. 1998 , apj 496 , 786 cox , d.p . , smith , b.w . , 1974 ,",
    "apj 189 , l105 habe , a. , ikeuchi , s. 1980 , prog .",
    "phys .  64 , 1995 houck , j.c . ,",
    "bregman , j.n . 1990 , apj 352 , 506 jenkins , e.b . , meloy , d.a . 1974 ,",
    "apj 193 , l121 kahn , f.d .",
    "1976 , a&a 50 , 145 kahn , f.d .",
    ", 1981 , in _ investigating the universe , _ ed .",
    "kahn , reidel , p.  1",
    "kahn , f.d .",
    ", 1998 , in _ the local bubble and beyond _ , iau coll .",
    "166 , eds.d .",
    "breitschwerdt , m.j .",
    "freyberg , j.  trmper , lecture notes in physics 506 , 483 kahn , f.d . , brett , l. 1993 , mnras 263 , 37 kamaya h. , et al .",
    "1996 , apj 458 , 25 komossa s. , 1999 , a&a submitted knigl a. , kartje j.f .",
    "1994 , apj 434 , 446 krolik j.h .",
    ", kriss g.a .",
    "1995 , apj 447 , 512 mckenzie , j.f . , vlk , h.j .",
    "1982 a&a 116 , 191 murray n. , chiang j. , grossman s.a . , voit g.m .",
    "1995 , apj 451 , 498 pier e.a .",
    ", voit g.m .",
    "1995 , apj 450 , 628 ptak , a. , serlemitsos , p. , yaqoob , t. , mushotzky , r. 1997 , aj 113 , 1286 ptuskin , v.s . ,",
    "vlk , h.j . ,",
    "zirakashvili , v.n . ,",
    "breitschwerdt , d. 1997 , a&a 321 , 434 shapiro , p.r . , field , g.b .",
    "1976 , apj 205 , 762 ( sf76 ) shapiro , p.r . ,",
    "moore , r.t .",
    "1976 , apj 207 , 460 spitzer , l.jr .",
    "1956 , apj 124 , 20 trmper j. , 1983 , adv . space res . 2 , 241 vlk , h.j . ,",
    "aharonian , f.a . ,",
    "breitschwerdt , d. 1996 , sp .  sci .",
    "75 , 279 wakker , b.p .",
    "1991 , a&a 250 , 499 wakker , b.p . ,",
    "van woerden , h. 1997 , ara&a 35 , 217 williamson , f.o .",
    ", et al . 1974 , apj 193 , l133 zirakashvili , v.n . ,",
    "breitschwerdt , d. , ptuskin , v.s .",
    ", vlk , h.j .",
    "1996 , a&a 311 , 113"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the development of galactic fountain theories is reviewed with special emphasis on the different approaches and concepts that have been used in the past . </S>",
    "<S> in particular the outstanding contribution of franz kahn to our _ physical _ understanding is appreciated . </S>",
    "<S> it is argued that galactic outflows represent an essential phase during galaxy evolution . </S>",
    "<S> the dynamics of the outflow imprints its signature on the emission spectra of soft x - rays , which may well be observable with axaf and xmm . finally , some remarks about winds in starburst galaxies and agn are made . </S>"
  ]
}