{
  "article_text": [
    "in the course of studying the globular cluster systems of ngc 3258 and ngc 3268 in the antlia cluster , we noted a tiny dust patch in the neighbouring galaxy ngc 3269 @xcite with a diameter of about 4 arcsec , barely visible on images found in the literature .",
    "this is striking since ngc 3269 is a grand design sa spiral without signs of star formation or small scale substructure .",
    "moreover , the galaxy seems to be devoid of hi @xcite , who quote from their atca observations an upper limit of about @xmath1 .",
    "we estimated the absorption in washington c and kron - cousins r and found a reddening law less grey than the standard one @xcite .",
    "the average absorption in r is about 0.3 mag , comparable to the average foreground absorption in the line - of - sight . at the distance of ngc 3269",
    ", this patch would be a large dust cloud with a diameter of about 500 pc .",
    "besides the fact that the existence of a singular dust complex of this dimension is strange by itself , it should be accompanied by star formation and should have many cores with very high line - of - sight absorption , causing the average r - value to be larger , i.e. towards grey absorption .",
    "even more so , if the dust cloud were located inside the galaxy with some stellar light in front of it .",
    "these reasonings gave rise to the conjecture that this cloud could be a galactic one in the foreground , projected onto ngc 3269 .",
    "the low galactic latitude of ngc 3269 ( -19@xmath2 ) supports this interpretation . to our knowledge",
    "this would be the first detection of an isolated galactic dust cloud of this angular size ( 100 pc distance : 4 @xmath3 equal 400 au ) .",
    "a larger dust complex in this region is not obvious . in the catalog of galactic dust clouds by @xcite the next entry near to ngc",
    "3269 is the ir - excess cloud irec403 @xcite whose center is 78 arcmin away .",
    "iras maps show 100@xmath4-emission about 5@xmath5 north of ngc 3269 and about 10@xmath5 to the south - west .",
    "ngc 3269 itself is projected towards a local minimum of emission .",
    "an accidental projection of a galactic dust cloud onto a galaxy may by itself be of no great interest .",
    "however , @xcite reported the discovery of tiny molecular clumps with densities indicating a high overpressure with respect to the ambient interstellar medium ( ism ) and sizes resembling that of our dust patch .",
    "their properties suggest that they may be an abundant structural feature of the ism .",
    "our dust patch might be the first optical identification of this kind of molecular cloud .",
    "therefore , one would like to have further support or counterevidence for this hypothesis .",
    "the seeing on our washington images was about 1 arcsec and measurements on scales of the order of the seeing may be unreliable . in this contribution , we report new observations under extremely good seeing to call further attention to this apparently rare phenomenon .",
    "during an observing run at the 6.5 m magellan clay telescope at las campanas observatories , chile , we took advantage of a period of excellent seeing and imaged ngc 3269 in the harris filters b and r with the magic camera .",
    "observing date was january 31 , 2004 .",
    "the ccd has a pixel scale of 0.069 arcsec / pixel , providing a field of view of @xmath6 .",
    "the total exposure time in b was 1800s , and 1200s in r. the frames were bias - subtracted and flatfield corrected using the iraf script magic - tools .",
    "the seeing on the b - image was 0.35 `` , on the r - image 0.6 '' .",
    "figure.[image ] shows the dust patch in the south - western part in ngc 3269 in the b - band . in this image ,",
    "the sky has been subtracted .",
    "further substructure is visible .",
    "the shape is not spherical and the points of highest absorption are located somewhat off - center .",
    "the galaxy exhibits a very smooth stellar light distribution which is distorted only by our dust cloud and two extremely small dust cloudlets ( @xmath7 ) nearby ( marked in fig.[image ] ) .",
    "the inset shows ngc 3269 on a larger scale in washington c ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "clearly visible are extended arc - like structures indicating previous or ongoing tidal interactions .",
    "these events might have been responsible also for a gas removal out of ngc 3269 .",
    "the dust patch is not projected onto a homogeneously bright surface , which would ease measuring the absorption .",
    "there is a gradient in surface brightness in the east - west direction .",
    "it is smallest in the north - south direction which we therefore chose to place a slit across the patch .",
    "the slit has a length of 210 pixels and a width of 30 pixels ( corresponding to 14.5@xmath82.0 arcsec ) .",
    "we take the average along the width .",
    "figure [ slit ] displays the result .",
    "the upper left graph shows the b - profile on a linear scale after sky subtraction . to measure the relative absorption",
    ", we adopt a background level of 70 .",
    "the upper right panel shows the same for the r - image ( note that the scale is now different ) .",
    "we adopt 220 as the local background value .",
    "the lower panel shows the relative absorption in b and r.    with these values , we calculate the average absorption ratio @xmath9 and the r - value @xmath10 , which are shown in fig.[absorption ] in the left and the right graph , respectively . for @xmath9 ,",
    "the uncertainty on dividing two small numbers on the left side becomes evident .",
    "this is less distinct on the right side because here the boundary of the dust patch is relatively sharp .",
    "the worse seeing in r lets the r - absorption less rapidly reaching zero than the b - absorption .",
    "we consider only the  plateau  in the pixel interval 520 - 570 . in this region , @xmath9 is @xmath11 where the uncertainty is the standard deviation .",
    "the uncertainty of this average value is difficult to formalize , because the intensities are not independent , but should be much smaller than 0.25 mag .",
    "our harris filters match johnson b and cousins r. a standard reddening law in these filters is given by @xcite .",
    "the standard value of @xmath9 is 1.65 , very similar to that given by @xcite for the johnson system . given that we average over small structure , which additionally makes the derived @xmath9-value greyer , the real value for @xmath9 will be higher ( not lower ! ) by an unknown amount .",
    "the right panel displays @xmath12 , and we measure an average of @xmath13 , again in the the pixel interval 520 - 570 .",
    "the standard value according to @xcite is 2.5 , compared to 2.3 in the johnson system @xcite .",
    "the statistical uncertainty alone would be small enough to conclude that the reddening law is indeed less grey than the standard reddening law .",
    "the systematic uncertainty is dominated by the adoption of a sky value .",
    "the sky values , measured in the outer regions of the frames , are 176 in the b - frame and 1160 in the r - frame .",
    "the relative accuracy of the sky determination for the r - frame is below 1% , for the b - frame about 1% . adopting 1% for both bands ,",
    "translates into uncertainties of the absolute level of @xmath1410 units in the r - band and @xmath142 units in the b - band .",
    "error propagation gives an uncertainty of 0.05 in both @xmath15 and @xmath16 , leading to about 0.1 for @xmath9 and @xmath17 .",
    "another factor is the local background .",
    "however , as can be seen from the scatter in the upper panels of fig .",
    "[ slit ] , any uncertainty is not larger than the uncertainty caused by the sky value .",
    "for simplicity we have assumed that the galaxy s brightness is constant along the slit , although the background is slightly fainter on the northern part , best visible for the r - frame in fig .",
    "thus we underestimated the absorption by a tiny amount .",
    "since the gradients in b and r are correlated , the reddening value moreover is only differentially affected .",
    "also the non - standard photometry is a second order effect because of our differential approach .",
    "the systematic uncertainty is thus smaller than the statistical one .",
    "the above uncertainties support the claim that the reddening has a somewhat stronger wavelength dependence than the standard reddening law , in contrast to the expectation of a greyer reddening law , if the dust patch was located in ngc 3269",
    ". a stronger wavelength dependence points to a smaller grain size than in any `` standard '' extinction case . in bok",
    "globules one finds @xmath18-values as high as 6.5 @xcite , compared to the standard value of 3.1 .",
    "this indicates that our cloud probably is not simply a distant bok globule ( which then would be located in the galactic halo ) .    on the other hand , although hi has not been detected in ngc 3269 , the current upper limits of the hi column density reported by @xcite still do not rule out a considerable hi content of the dust patch and its nature as a large complex in ngc 3269 .",
    "they give their 1@xmath19 sensitivity as @xmath20 . adopting a 5@xmath19 detection limit of @xmath21 in a 87``x73 '' beam ,",
    "the corresponding upper limit for the dust patch , normalizing to area , is @xmath22 .",
    "we adopt for the ratio of v - absorption to total neutral hydrogen column density @xmath23 @xcite . with this value ,",
    "the expected column density is @xmath24 , which is anyway below the detection limit .    to our knowledge",
    "this would be the first detection of an isolated dust cloud of this tiny angular size .",
    "the smallest globules in the surveys of @xcite and @xcite have diameters of about 30@xmath3 .",
    "larger projected dust structures have been seen before , for example against maffei 1 @xcite .",
    "our case could be a rare coincidence .",
    "on the other hand , structures of this size are extremely difficult to see and the projection onto an extended background source is practically the only way to detect such objects .",
    "this is probably hopeless with spiral galaxies with a lot of internal dust .",
    "early type galaxies at low galactic latitudes are on the other hand not the most favoured objects in galaxy studies , so tiny clouds may systematically be overlooked .",
    "our findings might gain interest in the context of studies of small molecular clouds .",
    "@xcite recently presented interferometric observations of `` small area molecular structures '' @xcite .",
    "he could resolve some tiny molecular clouds with properties suggesting that this kind of molecular structure is a common feature of the interstellar medium .",
    "the angular sizes resemble that our dust patch , which , if in the galaxy , is expected also to be associated with molecular gas .",
    "it is therefore possible that our cloud is an optical counterpart to the molecular clumpuscules of heithausen .",
    "according to him , `` it is unknown , what creates or maintains these structures '' .",
    "to get an idea of the mass associated with the absorption in a ficticious distance , we adopt for the ratio of v - absorption to total neutral hydrogen column density @xmath23 @xcite .",
    "this holds for the diffuse ism , but the normalization should not drastically differ from that in dense clouds @xcite .",
    "thus , the total number of hydrogen atoms is @xmath25 , r being the distance and @xmath26 the angular radius .",
    "the mean r - absorption within our slit is 0.2 , value which we also use for the v - absorption .",
    "an adopted distance of 100 pc and a radius of 2 \" ( corresponding to 200 au ) then suggest a mass of @xmath27 . given the nature of this estimate and the unknown distance , this mass is not too different from the masses of the molecular clumps given by heithausen .",
    "the corresponding density is very high , about @xmath28 .",
    "@xcite noted that co molecules in these clouds are not likely to survive the interstellar radiation field unless there is sufficient shielding .",
    "our dust cloud could provide the necessary shielding .",
    "if the cloud is in the galactic disk its distance can be as large as 1000 pc .",
    "its radius then would be 2000 au , still significantly smaller than typical bok globules ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the tiny clumpuscules indicated in fig .  [ image ] , if associated with the larger cloud , would have diameters of the order 50 au at 100 pc distance .",
    "they are too small for reliable absorption measurements .    whatever the nature of our dust structure may be , it would be interesting to search for more examples .",
    "another candidate may be hosted by ngc 3923 , hardly visible on images found in the ned , but prominently in recent hst images ( th .",
    "puzia , private communication ) .",
    "a related issue is perhaps the recent detection of small scale hi clouds @xcite in the local interstellar medium with extremely low column densities .",
    "the connection of this new atomic feature to molecular or dust structures is unknown .",
    "however , it shows that there are more small scale phenomena in the interstellar medium than previously thought .",
    "barnes , d. g. , webster , r. l. 2001 , mnras , 324 , 859 bohlin , r. c. , savage , b. d. , drake , j. f. 1978 , apj 224 , 132 bourke t.l . ,",
    "hyland a.r . , robinson g. 1995 , mnras 276 , 1052 braun r. , kanekar n. 2005 , a&a , in press ( astro - ph/0505055 ) buta r. , mccall m.l .",
    "2003 , aj 125 , 1150 clemens d.p .",
    ", barvainis r. 1988 , apjs 68 , 2570 dsert f.x . , bazell d. , boulanger f. 1988 , apj 334 , 815 dirsch b. , richtler t. , bassino l. 2003 , a&a 408 , 929 dutra c.m .",
    ", bica e. 2002 , a&a 383 , 631 he l. , whittet d.c.b . , kilkenny d. , spencer jones j.h .",
    "1995 , apjs 101 , 335 heithausen a. , 2002 , a&a 393 , l41 heithausen a. , 2004 , apj 606 , l13 rieke g.h .",
    ", lebofsky m.j .",
    "1985 , apj 288 , 618 strafella f. , campeggio l. , aiello s. , cecchi - pestellini c. 2001 , apj 558 , 717 weingartner j.c .",
    ", draine b.t .",
    "2001 , apj 548 , 296    , which might be associated with the larger feature .",
    "the slit along which we measure the absorption is indicated .",
    "the inset shows ngc 3269 on a larger scale in washington c. visible are various extended structures , particularly a large arc - like structure in the south - east .",
    "this morphology indicates previous or current tidal interactions so gas removal out of ngc 3269 is plausible .",
    ", width=453 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on new observations obtained with the magellan clay - telescope of a tiny dust patch in the sa - galaxy ngc 3269 in the antlia galaxy cluster . </S>",
    "<S> it has already been suspected to be a projected galactic foreground cloud . in this case </S>",
    "<S> a size of about 4 arcsec and a maximum absorption of @xmath01 mag in the b - band would make it unique so far . </S>",
    "<S> we present further evidence for its galactic nature from imaging under excellent seeing conditions ( 0.3 - 0.6 arcsec ) . </S>",
    "<S> this dust cloud could be the first optically identified counterpart of a new type of molecular cloud recently discovered by @xcite . </S>"
  ]
}