{
  "article_text": [
    "gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) are the most energetic and violent events in the universe . while we understand the broad details of these events there is still much to learn .",
    "the observable details are limited to the initial flux of gamma - rays , the lightcurve of radio , optical and x - ray afterglows and the optical absorption line spectra of a few of these afterglows .",
    "the events themselves show individuality but there are similarities .",
    "we observe two types , long and short grbs split by their duration .",
    "a grb is long if the burst lasts for a time greater than two seconds and short otherwise .",
    "also short bursts are observed to have a harder gamma - ray spectrum than their longer and softer counterparts .",
    "the two classes are thought to be explained by the same physics but differ in the progenitors .",
    "mystery still clouds short grbs with the first x - ray afterglow only recently observed for grb050509b @xcite . for long grbs",
    "the first detection of an afterglow occurred for grb970228 @xcite .",
    "observations of this and the following afterglows have increased our understanding of long grbs .",
    "it is widely believed that the progenitors are massive stars that form a black hole at the end of their lives when nuclear reactions can no longer support the core against collapse . then if the surrounding stellar material has enough angular momentum an accretion disk will form .",
    "this disk feeds the black hole that then produces a highly relativistic jet by a process that is not fully understood .",
    "if the star is small and compact the jet will emerge from the stellar surface and produce the grb @xcite .",
    "after the initial event the jet continues its motion and is decelerated by the ambient medium producing the afterglow .",
    "however there are many exceptions to this standard model .",
    "there are some grbs where the afterglow lightcurve rebrightens a few days after the burst .",
    "the proposed explanations are an inhomogeneous ambient medium , late energy input from the central engine or supernova ( sn ) light occurring from the same stellar death that gave rise to the grb .",
    "the first example of a linked sn and grb was grb980425 and sn1998bw .",
    "however this event was peculiar with the grb having an energy lower than a standard grb and the sn being more energetic than a standard sn .",
    "the first definite relationship between a sn and grb was when sn2003dh was discovered in the afterglow optical spectrum of grb030329 @xcite .",
    "the connection of sne and grbs adds weight to the argument for massive stars as the progenitors of grbs",
    ". therefore the evolution of massive stars has become vital in understanding long grbs .",
    "investigations have been split into two lines of enquiry .",
    "first has been the study of the progenitor stars themselves , for example @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite . the preferred progenitors are wolf - rayet ( wr ) stars .",
    "they are massive stars that lose their hydrogen envelope to become naked helium stars .",
    "it has been suggested that at very low metallicities wr stars might be formed by fully homogeneous evolution , induced by rotation , during hydrogen burning @xcite .",
    "wr stars are preferred as they have a small radius so the relativistic jet can break out from the surface to produce the prompt emission .",
    "wr stars are expected to give rise to the hydrogen deficient type ibc sne .",
    "the number of these stars that also / otherwise produce a grb at the end of their lives is important to know .",
    "the branching ratio of these events is uncertain but thought to be , @xmath2 to @xmath3 @xcite .",
    "if this is true then something extra must occur to turn a sn progenitor into a grb progenitor .",
    "these extra requirements for a grb are that a black hole must form , probably directly , and the material close to the forming black hole must have enough angular momentum to form an accretion disk .",
    "studies with rotating models indicate that the core material of wr stars can retain enough angular momentum for a disk to be formed at the time of collapse @xcite .",
    "however the inclusion of magnetic fields introduces a mechanism to slow down the core , transferring angular momentum to the envelope .",
    "this means the core can no longer from a disk around the black hole @xcite . if the star is in a binary there are opportunities for the star to be spun up by mass transfer or tidal forces .",
    "this makes it more likely that the grb progenitor occurs in a binary @xcite .",
    "although models that include rotation , stellar magnetic fields and binary systems are all uncertain because they treat inherently three dimensional processes by one dimensional approximations .",
    "also the observational evidence of the effects of rotation and interior magnetic fields on stellar evolution is mostly indirect .    in this",
    "study our models do not include rotation , stellar magnetic fields or binary stars . by using our models",
    "however we can take the first step to investigate the initial parameters of massive stars effect the circumstellar environment before we introduce these other complexities . because of this our models will need something extra to turn them from sn progenitors to grb progenitors .",
    "this something extra is likely to be non - solid body rotation or a binary companion .",
    "we will discuss the effect of these extra factors on our results .",
    "the other theme of grb progenitor studies concerns the circumstellar medium such as @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "these consider the environment around the stars through which the jet will propagate during its afterglow phase .",
    "this is a very important constraint since",
    "much more information can be gathered on the afterglow than can be obtained from the brief prompt gamma - ray emission .",
    "these studies are useful and indicate that some grb afterglows are consistent with the circumstellar environment around wr stars .",
    "the two pieces of evidence are some afterglow lightcurves where the rate of decay is explained by the jet passing through a stellar wind environment . while in some grbs absorption lines",
    "have been observed that are consistent with velocities from wr stars .    in this study",
    "we follow this line of enquiry , investigating the pre - sn winds and circumstellar environment around wr stars , to estimate the range of environments that can be expected around grb progenitors if they are wr stars .",
    "we begin by briefly describing the most important details of our stellar model , the mass - loss prescription and the method used to calculate the velocity of the stellar wind during different phases of the stars lifetimes .    using these details",
    "we then simulate the evolution of the circumstellar environment up to the point before a sne or grb will occur .",
    "we then discuss how the circumstellar environment varies over the stars initial mass and metallicity and the initial density of the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "we pay particular attention to the free - wind density through which the jet will propagate through and whose density can be inferred from grb afterglow lightcurves .    from our simulations",
    "we suggest that in afterglow simulations a stalled - wind region should be included as well as the free - wind .",
    "the density jump between these two regions can produce rebrightening in the afterglow as suggested by @xcite .",
    "we demonstrate the effect on the lightcurve with our own afterglow calculations , varying the free - wind density and the position of the free - wind / stalled - wind interface .",
    "finally we turn to the observations of absorption features in afterglow spectra that may be caused by material in the grb progenitor s stellar wind .",
    "first we consider the ionisation state of the material .",
    "second we determine whether the velocities inferred from observations are consistent with our wr star models .",
    "we then show how using the absorption features and inferred wind density it is possible to constrain the initial mass and metallicity of grb progenitors from afterglow lightcurves and optical absorption line spectra .",
    "the first grb afterglow was discovered for grb970228 @xcite . at the time of writing 135 grbs",
    "have observed optical afterglows .",
    "many of these grbs have detailed lightcurves and some have optical absorption line spectra . @xcite first noted that the absorption lines seen in the afterglow of grb021004 where similar to the expected imprint of a wind from a wr star . therefore it may be possible to directly measure the mass - loss rates and wind velocities of the massive stars that are grb progenitors and compare the values to those predicted for stellar evolution models .",
    "this requires the prediction of the range of wind velocities from massive stars and the environment around the star produced by the interaction of the wind with the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "this information can be obtained by detailed stellar evolution calculations and consideration of hydrodynamics to estimate the density structure around the star .",
    "it is also important to estimate the ionisation state of this material to calculate which ionic species will be observed .",
    "the first step is to model the massive stars themselves .",
    "the stellar models we use were produced with the cambridge stars stellar evolution code originally developed by @xcite and updated most recently by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "further details can be found at the code s home page ( http://www.ast.cam.ac.uk/@xmath4stars ) .",
    "the models are available from the same location for download .",
    "the models are the same as those described in @xcite .",
    "we use 46 zero - age main - sequence models that have masses from @xmath5 to @xmath6 .",
    "the stars have a uniform composition determined by @xmath7 and @xmath8 , where @xmath9 is the mass fraction of hydrogen , @xmath10 that of helium and @xmath11 is the initial metallicity .",
    "this initial metallicity takes values from @xmath12 to @xmath13 , equivalent to @xmath14 to @xmath15 .",
    "the composition is taken to be scaled solar composition .",
    "all models have undergone carbon burning and most have started neon burning .",
    "the latest burning stages are very short , a standard wr wind of @xmath16 will only travel a distance of the order of @xmath17 as the final burning stages occur .",
    "this is smaller than the inner radius taken in our circumstellar environment simulations .",
    "the mass - loss prescription is based upon that of @xcite but has been modified .",
    "we use the rates of @xcite unless the mass - loss rates are described by one of the following prescriptions . for ob stars we use the rates of @xcite and for wr stars we use the rates of @xcite .",
    "the rates of @xcite include their own scaling with metallicity . for the remaining mass - loss rates we scale by the initial metallicity with the factor of @xmath18 .",
    "this is commonly used for non - wr stars @xcite , however it has only recently been suggested to be included for wr stars @xcite .",
    "we must also note that while the error of the wr mass - loss rates quoted by @xcite is relatively small there is a larger possible systematic error in the mass - loss rates from the effect of clumping .",
    "the winds from hot stars are not smooth or uniform and tends to be clumped which higher and lower density clumps .",
    "this initially led to the wr mass - loss rates being overestimated by a factor of three .",
    "the problem of clumping in the winds of hot stars is still being tackled @xcite and therefore the magnitude of wr mass - loss remains uncertain by a factor of two .        in figure [ remnant ]",
    "we plot an important prediction of our models for a grb progenitor .",
    "the solid lines represent the borders between the regions where different compact remnants are formed .",
    "lower mass stars produce neutron star remnants .",
    "more massive stars produce black holes by fallback of material onto the forming neutron star . while the most massive stars have very massive cores that collapse directly to a black hole .",
    "we determine these regions using the method of @xcite by examining the helium core mass .",
    "if the helium core mass is less than @xmath19 a neutron star is formed , if the mass is greater than this a black hole is formed by fallback onto a neutron star .",
    "if the mass is greater than @xmath20 a black hole is formed directly .",
    "the dashed line in figure [ remnant ] is the minimum mass for hydrogen - free wolf - rayet stars .",
    "stars to the left retain hydrogen while stars to the right have lost all hydrogen and are compact wolf - rayet stars .",
    "these are thought to be the most likely grb progenitors as their compact size means the relativistic jet from the central black hole can penetrate through the stellar material and emerge at the surface to produce the grb .    from the graph we notice that there is a maximum metallicity for direct black hole formation and that the minimum mass for a wr star increases with lower metallicity .",
    "these two factors are important in predicting the efficiency of producing grb progenitors at different metallicities .",
    "if we require a grb progenitor to be a wr star and form a black hole directly we can see the maximum number of stars meeting these two requirements is greatest at a metallicity mass fraction of 0.006 assuming the initial mass function and star - formation rate are constant with metallicity . at lower metallicities",
    "the number of stars decreases while at higher metallicities there is also a decrease , with a cut off at solar metallicity .",
    "we note that all these stars are modelled as single stars and we do not include binary stars .",
    "we have investigated a small section of binary parameter space and find that the main result is to move the minimum mass for wr stars to lower initial masses .",
    "however the lowest initial mass for a binary wr star also increases with decreasing metallicity .",
    "therefore there are fewer wr stars at lower metallicities and the binaries become the dominant channel for their production . at the lowest metallicities stars may evolve homogeneously becoming wr stars without losing a large amount of their initial mass @xcite .",
    "we also do not include rotation or magnetic fields .",
    "the biggest effect of including rotation in massive stars is an enhanced mass - loss rate because of the stellar rotation @xcite , however there is little direct evidence that this should be included .",
    "the main effect on our models would be to produce a slightly lower final pre - sn mass .",
    "rotating models tend to reproduce the wr stars rotating at velocities similar to those of observed wr stars @xcite .",
    "however if the stars are rotating as solid bodies this is not fast enough rotation to produce a grb .",
    "therefore something extra is required for our models to be grb progenitors .",
    "we discuss how rotation and duplicity are likely to affect our results .",
    "we have the mass - loss history for all our stellar models .",
    "we do not have the speed of the stellar wind as it is not required to model a star s evolution but it is required to model the circumstellar environment .",
    "there are few detailed studies of the dependence of wind velocity on stellar parameters .",
    "fortunately the study of @xcite concerns the winds of wr stars .",
    "therefore we can predict the density structure that surrounds these stars with reasonable accuracy .",
    ".value of @xmath21 used for pre - wr stars in wind speed calculations . [",
    "cols=\"<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "after the prompt emission of gamma - rays in the grb itself the relativistic jet continues its motion and is decelerated by the material around the progenitor causing a shock that transfers energy from the jet to radiation that is emitted .",
    "this is the grb afterglow .",
    "the emission slowly decays with time usually as a smooth power law .",
    "there are some cases however where the afterglow is far from smooth and in some cases rebrightens considerably before continuing to decay . in this section",
    "we will not attempt to fit model lightcurves to observed grb afterglows but will instead show the relative effects of varying the circumstellar environment density profile .    in our calculations",
    "we assume that the initial kinetic energy in the relativistic jet has an isotropic equivalent value , @xmath22 ergs .",
    "this corresponds to a true energy , @xmath23 ",
    "@xmath24 ergs , for jet opening angles in the range 5  15@xmath25 , in agreement with observations @xcite .",
    "we follow the dynamical evolution of the relativistic jet using the simple formalism for energy and momentum conservation derived by @xcite .",
    "the calculation is stopped just before the jet enters the non - relativistic regime ( in practice at @xmath26 ) .",
    "once the evolution of the lorentz factor is known , the synchrotron emission of the jet is computed following @xcite .",
    "it is assumed that a fraction , @xmath27 of the internal energy in the post - shock region is transferred into the magnetic field and that a fraction , @xmath28 , is injected into a population of non - thermal relativistic electrons , with a power - law distribution of slope , @xmath29 .",
    "we have adopted , @xmath30 , @xmath31 and @xmath32 , which are typical values found in afterglow fits . finally the effect of the opening angle of the jet and the viewing angle of the observer is included following the formula given in @xcite . here ,",
    "we have focused on on - axis observations ( the line of sight and the jet axis are the same ) but we have considered different opening angles of the jet : @xmath33 , 10 and 15@xmath25 as well as a spherical ejecta for comparison ( isotropic ejecta ) .",
    "we then calculate the resulting flux in the v band , with the grb at a redshift of one .    , 0.1 and 1.0 while @xmath34 .",
    "the opening angle is constant at 10@xmath35 .",
    "the dashed line has been used to avoid confusion in the plot at late times.,width=317 ]     but with @xmath36 and various values for @xmath37 .",
    "the opening angle is constant at 10@xmath35.,width=317 ]     but with @xmath38 and @xmath34 .",
    "we vary the opening angle.,width=317 ]    in figures [ lc1 ] , [ lc2 ] and [ lc3 ] we compare results from calculations with different values of the wind density parameter @xmath39 , boundary radius between the free wind and stalled wind regions , @xmath37 , and the jet opening angle , @xmath40 .",
    "the light curves are characterised by an initial slope corresponding to a wind environment , a jump when the shock reaches @xmath41 followed by a shallower slope in the constant density medium .",
    "for some of the lightcurves the break expected when @xmath42 is observed after the jump .",
    "figure [ lc1 ] demonstrates the effect of varying @xmath0 while keeping @xmath37 constant at @xmath43 .",
    "a denser wind has a more intense afterglow and is decelerated more quickly .",
    "therefore the jet takes a longer time to reach the density jump at the free / stalled wind interface .",
    "the slight bump in the lightcurves occurs when the jet encounters this interface . in the case",
    "when @xmath36 the bump is observed the latest as the dense wind decelerates the jet rapidly . for a very dense wind ( @xmath44 ) the jet can be decelerated very quickly so that the reverse shock is efficient during the grb .",
    "this may affect the prompt grb emission if the emission mechanism are internal shocks in the jet .    in figure [ lc2 ]",
    "we show the differences introduced by moving the position of the interface in our density profiles . for the smallest distances",
    "the effect of the jump is hidden in the general shape of the light curve with only pronounced bumps at later times .",
    "this figure also demonstrates the different slopes of the lightcurves decay when the jet propagates through a constant density or free - wind medium .",
    "importantly when @xmath0 and @xmath37 are set to the values in table [ innerr ] we find that the rebrightening would occur after 10 days in most cases . at this time the afterglow is already dim and such effects maybe difficult to observe .",
    "finally figure [ lc3 ] shows the effect of altering the opening angle .",
    "the possible afterglow lightcurves are interesting .",
    "all follow the same pattern and all have substantial brightening at a few days after the grb due to the jet encountering the free - wind / stalled - wind interface . the greatest effect on",
    "the lightcurve comes from the break as the jet is decelerated and @xmath45 drops below the opening angle of the jet .",
    "the most important value to fit with any calculations is the initial value of @xmath0 .",
    "this will provide a solid constraint on the progenitor as it is directly related to the final mass loss of the massive star .",
    "the position of the jump can be found from rebrightening in the afterglow but is of limited use because it is affected not only by the details of the progenitor but also by the initial density of the ism and the uncertainty in the wind velocity of pre - wr stars .",
    "although in the cases where the afterglow is better described by a constant density medium this can be explained by @xmath37 being smaller than around @xmath46 so any signature of the wind profile will be in the very early afterglow lightcurve .",
    "the first grb afterglow was observed for grb970228 @xcite .",
    "the wait for a redshift from a grb afterglow was short , it was observed for the second observed afterglow of grb970508 @xcite . from a spectrum",
    "the redshift of a grb can be determined from lines intrinsic to the host galaxy or absorption lines within the host galaxy . in some cases there",
    "are extra absorption lines that have a small difference to the redshift of the host galaxy and the grb .",
    "the inferred velocities of this material are a few hundred and a few thousand kilometres per second . upon discovering these lines",
    "it has been suggested that they might be caused by absorption by the grb progenitors stellar wind material @xcite . although there are alternative explanations such as structures related to the host galaxy rather than the grb progenitor .    with our stellar models and simulated circumstellar environment",
    "we have information on the velocity profiles we can expect from the stellar wind .",
    "the predicted velocities for the free - wind region do match well with the velocities of the absorption lines at the highest velocity offset . in the stalled - wind region",
    "we also predict velocities of a similar magnitude but we find the exact figure depends quite sensitively on the initial ism density and the wind velocities during the main - sequence and red - supergiant phases of evolution .",
    "this agreement indicates stellar wind material could be responsible for these absorption lines .",
    "the first main question is whether the ions observed are present in the pre - grb wind .",
    "we verified this by modelling the environment using the program cloudy v96.01 @xcite .",
    "we used a black body spectrum for the wr star emission at effective temperature and luminosity of wr stars .",
    "we found that the observed species are present in the free - wind region .    the second , and more important",
    ", question is whether the grb completely ionises the immediate environment as discussed by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "therefore only fully ionised species will be present which can not produce absorption lines . in @xcite",
    "the comment is justified by calculating the recombination time - scale of the material and finding it was much longer than the time the afterglow is observed for . while in @xcite they estimate this in terms whether there is enough energy at a certain radius to complete ionise the material .",
    "we also investigate if the initial emission would be able to completely ionise the surrounding medium .",
    "we start by considering the ionisation cross - section , @xmath47 , where @xmath48 is the energy of the incident photon .",
    "we approximate the cross - sections energy dependence as , @xmath49 when @xmath50 is the minimum energy required to ionise the species in question .",
    "our next step is to estimate the number of ionisations per atom or ion at a distance @xmath51 from the grb , @xmath52 where @xmath53 describes the spectrum of the grb such that @xmath54 is the number of photons produced by the source between @xmath48 and @xmath55 .",
    "we also define @xmath56 such that @xmath57 gives the maximum distance where the atom or ion can be ionised .",
    "before we evaluate this in integral we must determine the grb spectrum .",
    "we approximate the grb spectrum to be , @xmath58 where @xmath59 is the peak energy of the burst spectrum .",
    "@xmath60 is a constant found by normalising with the isotropic radiated energy of the burst , @xmath61 . with these assembled formulae we evaluate equation [ cooleqn ] .",
    "the result is , @xmath62    we take the ion c(iv ) as our example as this has been observed in some grb afterglow spectra .",
    "we use the burst parameters from grb021004 which we discuss later .",
    "therefore we have @xmath63 , @xmath64 , @xmath65 and the rest frame @xmath66 . using these values",
    "we find @xmath67 . from this",
    "we can assume that nearly all c(iv ) in the free - wind material is ionised , this argument despite being very simplistic means that absorption lines in the afterglow spectra are probably from material not associated with the grb progenitor .",
    "but we only look at one species of one element , the combination of all elements present may increase the absorbing power of the circumstellar material .",
    "we can also find that some of the free - wind regions in our simulations are larger than this size if we start with a low ism density . at initial ism densities of @xmath68 , the @xmath37 is greater than this ionisation radius so it is possible for some material to remain unionised and produce absorption lines in the afterglow spectra . comparing to the ionisation radii calculated in @xcite",
    "we can make a similar conclusion .",
    "there are also other details to consider .",
    "@xcite suggested the jet may be structured .",
    "the jet may be formed from a central hyper - relativistic core surrounded by less relativistic material that gives rise to the afterglow .",
    "there is a similar alternative explanation that uses the temporal structure to the jet .",
    "initially the jet will be tightly confined as will its emission by the large beaming factor due to the relativistic motion .",
    "this means all the ionising flux will be tightly beamed through only a small fraction of material directly in its path .",
    "however after the initial burst and the fireball propagates it will spread out .",
    "therefore while the material down the centre of the jet will be ionised the material at the edge of the jet will not be .",
    "this becomes more true the larger the angle between the jet axis and the line of sight .    .",
    "the dashed line shows where @xmath69.,width=317 ]     but the wind velocity from our models has been increased by 0.13 dex , the uncertainty of the predicted wind velocities .",
    "the solid line show where @xmath70 .",
    "the dashed line indicated the region where @xmath69.,width=317 ]    we conclude that the lines we see could come from the grb progenitor s wind in some cases",
    ". only observations of more grb afterglow spectra will indicate if this is a general trend .",
    "we also predict that there will be an evolution of the observed spectra with time .",
    "for example eventually the jet will reach beyond the free wind , at that point the higher velocity absorption lines should disappear from the spectra . if they were to remain then they must be external in origin .",
    "although it is very improbable the afterglow will remain luminous enough at late times to allow detailed spectroscopy .",
    "while there are a large number of observed grbs and a good fraction with observed afterglows there are relatively few with observed absorption line spectra .",
    "below we discuss three grbs that have observed afterglows and compare them with our predicted circumstellar environments .",
    "the position of this burst was localised within a few minutes by hete-2 .",
    "this meant that detailed optical afterglow observations were taken .",
    "many different groups took spectra of the afterglow @xcite .",
    "@xcite found there were absorption lines for c(iv ) , si(iv ) and hydrogen , blueshifted with respect to the host galaxy with velocities of around @xmath71 and @xmath72 .",
    "their interpretation was that these lines were caused by material in the stellar wind of the grb progenitor .",
    "possible resolutions of the ionisation problem were discussed above . however",
    "the presence of hydrogen should not be possible if the progenitor star was a wr star .",
    "@xcite suggested the wr star was in a binary with a main - sequence o star companion . the o star wind would mix hydrogen into the wr wind .",
    "both stars have similar wind velocities and the majority of the material in the resultant wind would still originate from the wr star .",
    "if we assume that the absorption lines are from material in the stellar wind we can ask , ` what does the afterglow and absorption lines tell us about the progenitor itself ? '",
    "@xcite estimate an @xmath0 value of 0.6 for this grb . on figure [ grb021004a ]",
    "we plot the region where @xmath69 in initial mass and metallicity space . on the same plot",
    "we include contours of the free - wind speed determined from the absorption lines of @xmath73 . these contours do not overlap .",
    "however the mass - loss rates and the wind velocities are uncertain . in figure [ grb021004b ]",
    "we increase all predicted wind velocities by 0.13 dex , the quoted uncertainty in the wind velocity equations , an overlap now occurs .",
    "the inferred free - wind density and wind speed then agrees with the predicted details of a low metallicity wc star .",
    "it must be noted that we are only able to achieve an agreement with the observations by exploiting that the winds are uncertain . until the uncertainties in wr stars and their winds",
    "are greatly reduced we can not make an identification in this way .",
    "an alternative explanation is that the progenitor may be a wo star .",
    "this is possible as while wo stars tend to have higher wind velocities and a lower free - wind density , the progenitor could have been a transition object with faster wind speeds than those predicted that our solar metallicity wc stars .",
    "although there are very few observed wo stars so we do not fully understand the possible wind speeds .",
    "further more we have not considered the uncertainty in the wr mass - loss rates .",
    "altering the magnitude of the wr mass - loss rates will effect our models and change the masses , surface composition and luminosity of our models and therefore change the final velocities and mass - loss rates .",
    "combining all the possible uncertainties it is not possible to make any conclusions about the progenitor of grb021004 other than its observed details agree with a wide range of wr models .",
    "the low velocity lines provide extra information on the wind structure around the progenitor .",
    "@xcite discuss how the lines are likely to be caused by the shell formed when the slower rsg wind material is swept up and accelerated by the faster wr wind .",
    "we find this occurs in all our simulations were the stars go through a rsg phase . for initial ism densities ,",
    "@xmath74 , this shell reaches the stalled - wind region , decelerates and mixes into the stalled wind . at low initial densities ( @xmath75 )",
    "we find that the shell does not reach the stalled - wind region and remains in the free - wind region .",
    "the velocity is typically a few @xmath76 , for a number of our wr stars the shell is close to the observed @xmath72 .",
    "therefore the lower velocity lines may give a qualitative indication of the initial ism density .",
    "although the structure of the low velocity lines is complex and made up of many different single lines over a range of a few @xmath76 .",
    "therefore no simple interpretation is possible .    in summary",
    "the progenitor may have been an wr star at any metallicity .",
    "however such stars above solar metallicity will lose too much mass to form a black hole directly at core - collapse , therefore sub - solar stars are favoured ( figure [ remnant ] .",
    "there are two more grbs with absorption lines slightly offset from the host galaxy redshift .",
    "for grb020813 the inferred wind velocity was 4320 km s@xmath77 with an @xmath78 @xcite .",
    "for this grb the case of a wo star is slightly stronger as the wind velocity and wind density agree with the typical values for observed wo stars .    for grb030226",
    "the velocity was 2300 km s@xmath77 @xcite .",
    "there an @xmath0 has not been estimated .",
    "however the wind velocity is too low for a wo star and is more in agreement with the wind speed of a wc star .",
    "the study of grbs and their afterglows is a rapidly expanding field ; it is not only of interest to those who wish to understand grbs but also those who wish to use grbs as tools to solve other problems , such as investigating star - formation history or the lyman-@xmath79 forest . in this paper",
    "we have both described the circumstellar environment of possible grb progenitors and discussed the effect of such an environment on the grb afterglow .",
    "the details of the progenitor that affect a grb afterglow are the final wind velocity and mass - loss rate , these together determine the @xmath0 value of the free - wind region around the star .",
    "this value affects the slope of the afterglow lightcurve . for some environments",
    "the afterglow jet might encounter the density jump at the interface between the free and stalled wind while it remains observable @xcite .",
    "this density jump is between a factor of 4 and @xmath80 .",
    "it is easy to use a simple model density profiles of the free - wind region connected to a stalled - wind region .",
    "the circumstellar environment in current afterglow calculations only considers the free - wind profiles and ignore the stalled - wind region even though it has been known to exist for sometime @xcite .",
    "the environment can be described by @xmath0 , @xmath37 and @xmath81 . from varying these three numbers",
    "it should be possible to reproduce afterglow lightcurves , using the values of @xmath0 and @xmath37 from our stellar models as listed in table [ innerr ] , with @xmath82 .",
    "@xmath0 have been inferred from observations of grb afterglow lightcurves .",
    "the higher values ( @xmath83 ) are similar to those from stellar evolution models of wc stars .",
    "further more , using the inferred free - wind velocity from grb afterglows we have demonstrated how it may be possible to estimate the range of possible initial parameters for the progenitor .",
    "no firm conclusions can be drawn as the uncertainty in wr wind velocities and mass - loss rates are considerable .",
    "as our understanding of these objects grows it may become possible to use the method presented here to limit the parameter space of the progenitor .",
    "one important question that must be answered is how the mass - loss rate and wind velocity scales with initial metallicity . for radiatively driven winds",
    "it is known that separate elements are responsible for determining the mass - loss rate and wind velocity .",
    "the many but weak lines of the iron group elements determine the mass - loss rate while the few but strong lines of the cno elements determine the wind velocity @xcite .",
    "the iron group elements are not depleted on the surface over the lifetime of a star but the cno elements become enhanced as time passes . for wr stars",
    "the cno abundance is substantially different to the initial metallicity .",
    "the dependence on initial metallicity may therefore be very weak .",
    "of further interest will be the effect of rotation and/or a binary companion on the progenitor star and the circumstellar environment .",
    "rotating models of grb progenitors do retain enough angular momentum to form an accretion disk around the forming black hole to produce a grb @xcite .",
    "magnetic fields remove this possibility @xcite .",
    "but binary stars can spin - up a star by mass - transfer events therefore they may be the more likely progenitors @xcite .",
    "the circumstellar environment is the next step to consider , it is not clear how rotation will change the details of the circumstellar free - wind region @xcite .",
    "@xcite present a simulation of the circumstellar environment for a rotating single star .",
    "they find that both the free - wind density and @xmath37 are strongly dependent on latitude .",
    "a similar effect can be expected for binary stars as interactions can spin up the stars to rotate more rapidly than might be expected for single stars . for binary stars , because of the many possible evolutionary paths , there are a number of other possible effects on the environment . for a wide binary interactions may shorten or remove the rsg phase by enhancing mass - loss",
    "therefore there will only be a brief phase when the wind speed drops below @xmath84 . for closer binaries common - envelope evolution may occur leading to a tight wr / o star binary where the mass - loss rate of the wr star maybe enhanced by the companion leading to larger numbers of wo stars .",
    "the most important binary cases will be those where the stellar wind of the secondary is of similar strength to the wr stars when the wind density maybe be effected @xcite .",
    "* our predicted value of @xmath0 for single wc stars span a small range , @xmath85 . due to",
    "the uncertainty in wc star winds the lower value may be as low as 0.3 . *",
    "all our wr models end as wc stars and we have no wo stars .",
    "wo stars have higher wind velocities than wc stars and therefore may give rise to the lower @xmath0 than we predict from out models . *",
    "the typical observed free - wind velocities inferred from absorption line spectra of grb afterglows agree with predictions of pre - sn wr wind speeds from single non - rotating stars . *",
    "it is possible for the free - wind region to become extremely large , in some cases larger than the ionisation radius from the prompt grb emission .",
    "therefore it is possible for the wind material to remain unionised and be observed in the afterglow absorption line spectrum if the initial ism density is @xmath68 .",
    "* rapid changes in the wind velocity during the evolution of stars can produce small deviations in the expected dimensions of the circumstellar environment from analytic models .",
    "* we indicate that from limits on the value of @xmath0 and the final wind speed from the grb progenitor it may in future be possible to estimate the initial parameters of grb progenitors . currently the uncertainties in wr mass - loss are too great to draw any such conclusions .",
    "jje would like to thank chris tout , pierre lesaffre and richard alexander for fluid conversations and jorick vink for windy conversations .",
    "we would also like to thank the referee s norbert langer and allard - jan van marle for their many useful questions that led to an greatly improved article .",
    "we also wish to thank mike barlow for some details of wo stars .",
    "barth a.j . , sari r. , cohen m.h . , goodrich r.w . ,",
    "price p.a . , fox , d.w . ,",
    "bloom j.s . , soderberg a.m. , kulkarni s.r . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 584 , 47 bloom et al . , 2005 , astro - ph/0505480 bhm - vitense e , 1958 , za , 46 , 108 bouret j .- c . , lanz t. , hillier d. j. , 2005 , a&a , 438 , 301 castor j. , mccray r. , weaver r. , 1975 , apj , 200 , 107 chevalier r.a . , li z - y . , fransson c. , 2004 , apj , 606 , 369 chornock r. , filippenko a.v . , 2003 ,",
    "gcn , 1897 , 1 crowther p.a . ,",
    "fullerton a.w . ,",
    "hillier d.j .",
    ", brownsberger k. , dessart l. , willis a.j . , de marco o. , barlow m.j . , hutchings j.b .",
    ", massa d.l . ,",
    "morton d.c . , sonneborn g. , 2000 , apj , 538 , l51 crowther p.a . , dessart l. , hillier d.j . , abbott j.b . ,",
    "fullerton a.w . , 2002 ,",
    "a&a , 392 , 653 dai z.g . ,",
    "lu t. , 2002 , apj , 565l , 87d dai z.g . , wu x.f .",
    ", 2003 , apj , 591 , 21 dray l.m .",
    ", tout c.a . ,",
    "2003 , mnras , 341 , 299 drew j.e .",
    ", barlow m.j .",
    ", unruh y.c . , parker q.a . , wesson r. , pierce m.j . , masheder m.r.w .",
    ", phillipps s. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 206 eggleton p.p . , 1971 , mnras , 151 , 351 eldridge j.j , 2004 , phd disertation , university of cambridge , astro - ph/0502046 eldridge j.j .",
    ", tout c.a . , 2004a , mnras , 348 , 201 eldridge j.j .",
    ", tout c.a . , 2004b , mnras , 353 , 87 eldridge j.j .",
    ", izzard r.g . &",
    ", 2005 , in prep .",
    "frail d.a . ,",
    "kulkarni s.r . , sari r. , djorgovski s.g . , bloom j.s . ,",
    "galama t.j . ,",
    "reichart d.e . ,",
    "berger e. , harrison f.a . ,",
    "price p.a . ,",
    ", diercks a. , goodrich r.w . , chaffee f.,2001 , apj , 562 , 55 ferland g.j . , 2003 , ara&a , 41 , 517 fryer c.l . , heger a. , 2005 , apj , 623 , 302 garcia - segura g. , mac low m .-",
    "m . , langer n. , 1996 , a&a , 305 , 229 garcia - segura g. , langer n. , mac low m .- m . , 1996 , a&a , 316 , 133 grfener g. , hamann w .- r . , 2005 , a&a , 432 , 633 greiner j. , guenther e. , klose s. , schwarz r. , 2003 , gcn , 1886 , 1 harries t.j .",
    ", hiller d.j . , howarth i.d .",
    ", 1998 , mnras , 296 , 1072 heger a. , langer n. , 1996 , a&a , 315 , 421 heger a. , fryer c.l . , woosley s.e . ,",
    "langer n. , hartmann d.h . , 2003 , apj , 591 , 288 hirschi r. , meynet g. , maeder a. , 2004 , a&a , 425 , 649 maeder a. , meynet , g. , hirschi r. , 2005 , astro - ph/0507343 hjorth j. , sollerman j. , moller p. , fynbo j.p.u . , woosley s.e .",
    ", kouveliotou c. , tanvir n.r . , greiner j. , andersen m.i . , castro - tirado a.j . , castro ceron j.m",
    ", fruchter a.s .",
    ", gorosabel j. , jakobsson p. , kaper l. , klose s. , masetti n. , pedersen h. , pedersen k. , pian e. , palazzi e. , rhoads j.e . ,",
    "rol e. , van den heuvel e.p.j . , vreeswijk p.m. , watson d. , wijers r.a.m.j . , 2003 ,",
    "nature , 423 , 847 holland s.t .",
    ", weidinger m. , fynbo j.p.u . , gorosabel j. , hjorth j. , pedersen k. , mndez alvarez j. , augusteijn t. , castro cern j.m . , castro - tirado a. , dahle h. , egholm m.p .",
    ", jakobsson p. , jensen b.l .",
    ", levan a. , mller p. , pedersen h. , pursimo t. , ruiz - lapuente p. , thomsen b. , 2003 , aj , 125 , 2291 hurley j.r . ,",
    ", pols o.r .",
    "2002 , mnras , 329 , 897 izzard r.g .",
    ", ramirez - ruiz e. , tout c.a . , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 348 , 1215 de jager c. , nieuwenhuijzen h. , van der hucht k.a . , 1998 , a&ass , 72 , 259 kingburgh r.l . , barlow m.j . , 1995 , a&a , 295 , 171 kingsburgh r.l . , barlow m.j . , storey p.j . , 1995 , a&a , 295 , 75 kudritzki r.p . , pauldrach a. , puls j. , 1987 , a&a , 173 , 293 kudritzki r.p . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 577 , 389 langer n. , garcia - segura g. , mac low m .- m . , 1999 , apj , 520 , 49 lazzati d. , rossi e. , covino s. , ghisellini g. , malesani d. , 2002 , a&a , 396 , 5 macfadyen a.i . ,",
    "woosley s.e . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 524 , 262 macfadyen a.i . ,",
    "woosley s.e .",
    ", heger a. , 2001 , apj , 550 , 410 matzner c.d . , 2003 ,",
    "mnras , 345 , 575 metzger m.r . , djorgovski s.g . ,",
    "kulkarni s.r . , steidel c.c . , adelberger k.l . , frail d.a .",
    ", costa e. , frontera f. , 1997 , nature , 387 , 878 mirabal n. , halpern j.p . , chornock r. , filippenko a.v . ,",
    "terndrup d.m .",
    ", armstrong e. , kemp j. , thorstensen j.r . , tavarez m. , espaillat c. , 2003 , apj , 595 , 935 nugis t. , lamers h.j.g.l.m . , 2000 ,",
    "a&a , 360 , 227 ostriker j.p . ,",
    "mckee c.f . , 1988 ,",
    "rvmp , 60 , 1o paczynski b. , rhoads j.e . , 1993 , apj , 418 , 5 panaitescu a. , kumar p. , 2001",
    ", apj , 560 , 49 panaitescu a. , kumar p. , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 571 , 779 petrenz p. , puls j. , 2000 , a&a , 358 , 956 petrovic j. , langer n. , yoon s .- c .",
    ", heger a. , 2005 , a&a , 435 , 247 price p.a . ,",
    "fox d.w . ,",
    "djorgovski s.g . , west m. , cote p. , jordan a. , castro a.j . , 2003 , gcn , 1889 , 1 podsiadlowski p. , 1992 ,",
    "pasp , 104 , 717 podsiadlowski ph . , joss p.c . , hsu j.j.l . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 391 , 246 pols o.r .",
    ", tout c.a .",
    ", eggleton p.p .",
    ", han z. , 1995 , mnras , 274 , 964 pols o.r . , schrder k",
    "hurley j.r .",
    ", tout c.a .",
    ", eggleton p.p . , 1998 ,",
    "mnras , 298,525 ramirez - ruiz e. , dray l.m . , madau p. , tout c.a .",
    ", 2001 , mnras , 327 , 829 ramirez - ruiz e. , garcia - segura g. , salmonson j.d .",
    ", perez - rendon b. , 2005 , apj , 631 , 435r sari r. , piran t. , narayan r. , 1998 , apj , 497 , 17 schaerer d. , 2002 , a&a , 382 , 28 schaefer b.e .",
    ", gerardy c.l . ,",
    "hoflich p. , panaitescu a. , quimby r. , mader j. , hill g.j .",
    ", kumar p. , wheeler j.c .",
    ", eracleous m. , sigurdsson s. , meszaros p. , zhang b. , wang l. , hessman f.v .",
    ", petrosian v. , 2003 , apj , 588 , 387 schrder , k.p . ,",
    "pols , o.r . , eggleton , p.p . , 1997 ,",
    "mnras , 285 , 696 smith l.f .",
    ", maeder a. , 1991 , a&a , 241 , 77s stanek k.z . , matheson t. , garnavich p.m. , martini p. , berlind p. , caldwell n. , challis p. , brown w.r .",
    ", schild r. , krisciunas k. , calkins m.l .",
    ", lee j.c . , hathi n. , jansen r.a . , windhorst r. , echevarria l. , eisenstein d.j .",
    ", pindor b. , olszewski e.w . , harding p. , holland s.t .",
    ", bersier d. , 2003 , apj , 591 , 17 starling r.l.c . , wijers r.a.m.j .",
    ", hughes m.a .",
    ", tanvir n.r . , vreeswijk p.m. , rol e. , salamanca i. , 2005 , mnras , 360 , 305 stone j.m , norman m.l . ,",
    "ajs , 80 , 753 van der hucht k.a .",
    ", 2001 , newar , 45 , 135 van marle a .- j .",
    ", langer n. , garcia - segura g. , 2005 , astro - ph/0507659 van paradijs j. , groot p.j .",
    ", galama t. , kouveliotou c. , strom r.g . , telting j. , rutten r.g.m .",
    ", fishman g.j .",
    ", meegan c.a . , pettini m. , tanvir n. , bloom j. , pedersen h. , nordgaard - nielsen h.u .",
    ", linden - vornle m. , melnick j. , van der steene g. , bremer m. , naber r. , heise j. , in t zand j. , costa e. , feroci m. , piro l. , frontera f. , zavattini g. , nicastro l. , palazzi e. , bennet k. , hanlon l. , parmar a. , 1997 , nature , 386 , 686 van putten m.h.p.m . , 2004 , apj , 611 , l81 vanbeveren , d. ; de loore , c. ; van rensbergen , w. 1998a&arv ... 9 ... 63vvink j.s . , de koter a. , lamers h.j.g.l.m . , 2001 , a&a , 369 , 574 weaver r. , mccray r. , castor j. , shapiro p. , moore r. , 1977 , apj , 218 , 377 woods e. , loeb a. , 1999 , apj , 523 , 187 woosley s.e . , heger a. , weaver t.a . , 2002 ,",
    "rvmp , 74 , 1015 woosley s. , heger a. , 2005 , astro - ph/0508175 van marle , a. j. ; langer , n. ; garcia - segura , g.2004rmxac .. 22 .. 136v woosley s.e .",
    ", 1993 , apj , 405 , 273 yoon s .- c . , langer n. , 2005 , astro - ph/0508242 zhang w. , woosley s.e .",
    ", heger a. , 2004 , apj , 608 , 365"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the evolution of the circumstellar medium of massive stars . </S>",
    "<S> we pay particular attention to wolf - rayet stars that are thought to be the progenitors of some long gamma - ray bursts . </S>",
    "<S> we detail the mass - loss rates we use in our stellar evolution models and how we estimate the stellar wind speeds during different phases . with these details </S>",
    "<S> we simulate the interactions between the wind and the interstellar medium to predict the circumstellar environment around the stars at the time of core - collapse . </S>",
    "<S> we then investigate how the structure of the environment might affect the grb afterglow . </S>",
    "<S> we find that when the afterglow jet encounters the free - wind to stalled - wind interface that rebrightening occurs and a bump is seen in the afterglow light curve . </S>",
    "<S> however our predicted positions of this interface are too distant from the site of the grb to reach while the afterglow remains observable . * </S>",
    "<S> the values of the final - wind density , @xmath0 , from our stellar models are of the same order ( @xmath1 ) as some of the values inferred from observed afterglow lightcurves . </S>",
    "<S> we do not reproduce the lowest @xmath0 values below 0.5 inferred from afterglow observations . </S>",
    "<S> for these cases we suggest that the progenitors could have been a wo type wolf - rayet star or a very low metallicity star . * </S>",
    "<S> finally we turn our attention to the matter of stellar wind material producing absorption lines in the afterglow spectra . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the observational signatures of two wolf - rayet stellar types , wc and wo , in the afterglow lightcurve and spectra . </S>",
    "<S> we also indicate how it may be possible to constrain the initial mass and metallicity of a grb progenitor by using the inferred wind density and wind velocity .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    gamma - ray burst : general  stars : evolution  stars : gamma - ray burst progenitors  stars : wolf - rayet </S>"
  ]
}