{
  "article_text": [
    "a part of x - ray binary systems , called microquasars , produce collimated outflows observed as nonthermal radio structures ( e.g. mirabel & rodriquez  1999 , fender  2003 ) .",
    "they are probably produced by relativistic jets launched from the inner parts of the accretion disks around stellar mass black holes or neutron stars .",
    "high energy processes play an important role in these sources since some of them emit high energy x - rays and @xmath3-rays ( e.g. paredes  2005 ) .",
    "however , the content of these jets , hadronic , leptonic or mixed , remains a puzzle .",
    "a few models have been discussed in which possible importance of hadronic processes in the microquasar jets can be probed by the neutrino observations . for example , levinson & waxman  ( 2001 ) and distefano et al .",
    "( 2002 ) consider production of neutrinos in the interactions of protons accelerated in the jet with the radiation field of the accretion disk .",
    "romero et al .",
    "( 2003 ) discuss the case of a misaligned jet , which collide with dense wind of a massive star or its surface .",
    "aharonian & atoyan  ( 1991 ) propose that relativistic hadronic beam can interact with blobs of matter injected by the stellar companion .",
    "other scenarios for neutrino production in x - ray binaries , which do not postulate very collimated injection of relativistic hadrons , have been also discussed , e.g. collisions of hadrons from the pulsar with matter of the accretion disk ( cheng & ruderman 1989 , anchordoqui et al .",
    "2003 ) or the matter of the massive star ( gaisser & stanev  1985 , kolb et al .",
    "1985 , berezinsky et al .  1985 ,",
    "harding & gaisser  1990 ) .    in this paper",
    "we consider a different model for the neutrino production in microquasars in which the jet does not need to collide directly with the dense matter from the stellar companion ( a rather rare phenomenon due to the geometrical requirements ) .",
    "we show that in very compact massive binaries containing the massive star and a compact object , e.g. the cyg x-3 , nuclei accelerated in the jet can lose efficiently neutrons in collisions with the stellar and accretion disk radiation .",
    "most of these neutrons propagate towards the disk and the massive star producing neutrinos in collisions with the matter .",
    "note that about half of the observed wolf - rayet stars , between 158 objects ( van der hucht  2001 ) , form massive binary stars .",
    "such systems should soon evolve into the binary system containing a compact object , i.e. similar to the cyg x-3 .",
    "in fact , a few high mass compact x - ray binaries with the solar mass black hole are observed at present , e.g. cyg x-1 , ss 433 , v4641 sgr ( paredes 2005 ) .",
    "let s consider a solar mass black hole or a slowly rotating neutron star on a close orbit around a wolf - rayet ( wr ) star . the matter accreting from the massive star forms an accretion disk which launches a jet from its inner part as observed in microquasars .",
    "as an example , we consider a specific case of the cyg x-3 binary system which basic parameters are the following : the wolf - rayet star with the surface temperature @xmath4 k and radius @xmath5 , the separation of the components @xmath6 .",
    "persistent x - ray emission of the accretion disk in cyg x-3 is @xmath7 erg s@xmath8 ( bonnet - bidaud & chardin  1988 ) . for this disk luminosity , and an assumed inner radius of the disk @xmath9 cm , the inner disk temperature is @xmath10 k. according to the the disk - jet symbiosis model ( falcke , malkan & biermann  1995 ) , the jet power , @xmath11 , is comparable to the observed disk luminosity , @xmath12 ( this model has been recently successfully applied for different sources , see e.g. yuan et al .",
    "2002 , yuan , markoff & falcke 2002 , falcke et al .",
    "therefore , in farther considerations we assume @xmath13 erg s@xmath8 .",
    "note however , that in the outburst stages , which are relatively frequent in cyg x-3 , the x - ray luminosity can be several times larger .",
    "the jet in cyg x-3 propagates with the velocity in the range ( 0.3 - 0.8)c ( @xmath14 is the velocity of light ) , estimated from the expension rate of specific components ( e.g. spencer et al .  1986 ) and the ratio of the jet to counter - jet flux ( mioduszewski et al .",
    "we apply the average value , @xmath15 , reported by marti et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .",
    "the wr stars are at the late stage of evolution of the supermassive stars which have already lost their hydrogen envelopes .",
    "their winds are mainly composed from the cno group of nuclei with the substantial abundance of he nuclei ( see e.g. heger & langer  2000 ) .",
    "we assume that these nuclei can be accelerated in some regions of the jet to relativistic energies .",
    "they create a relatively weakly relativistic blob in which nuclei with very large lorentz factors are distributed isotropically in the blob reference frame .",
    "those among these nuclei which happen to move in the direction of the source of soft photons , i.e. the inner part of the accretion disk or the disk of the massive star , suffer the most frequent disintegrations . as a result ,",
    "most of neutrons extracted from these nuclei move along the straight lines towards the source of the radiation field .",
    "the number of neutrons which move towards the disk and the star is determined by the probability of neutron extraction from nuclei in such strongly anisotropic radiation defined by @xmath16 , where @xmath17 is the product of the cross section and the photon spectrum , @xmath18 and @xmath19 is the angle between the photon and nuclei .",
    "let us assume that @xmath17 weakly depends on @xmath19 , i.e. assuming that the interaction regime is far away from the threshold for extraction of a nucleon from nuclei .",
    "then we estimate that the probability of interaction of a nucleus which move inside the half hemisphere around the source of soft radiation is at least a factor 3 larger than for nucleus moving in the opposite half of the hemisphere .",
    "therefore , at least 3 times more neutrons , extracted from nuclei , move towards the accretion disk and/or the massive star than at other directions . note that at low energies the photo - disintegration cross section drops and also depends on @xmath20 .",
    "then significantly larger fraction of neutrons extracted from nuclei should move towards the source of the soft photons .",
    "the location of the acceleration place in the jet , the dissipation region , is unknown and depends on the details of the acceleration model .",
    "therefore , we consider three different possible regions inside the jet which location is determined by the strength of the radiation field from the disk and the massive star :    \\(i ) nuclei accelerated to sufficient energies very close to the base of the jet are immediately disintegrated in collisions with x - ray photons from the inner accretion disk .",
    "nucleons from their disintegration may interact with the x - ray photons producing neutrinos through decay of pions , provided that they have lorentz factors above the threshold for pion production , @xmath21 , where @xmath22 is the pion mass and @xmath23 is the boltzmann constant .",
    "such scenario is realized if the optical depth for pion production by nucleons in collisions with the disk photons is above unity .",
    "the extent of the region ( i ) can be estimated by comparing the characteristic escape time of nucleons with the jet plasma , @xmath24 , where @xmath25 is the distance along the jet in units of the inner disk radius @xmath26 , with the interaction time of nucleons @xmath27 , where @xmath28 @xmath29 is the cross section for proton - photon pion production in the region of the plateau and the peak , respectively .",
    "the photon density from the inner disk is approximated by @xmath30 where @xmath31 is the disk temperature at its inner radius , @xmath32 is the stefan - boltzmann constant .",
    "region ( i ) extends up to @xmath33 , i.e. at @xmath34 cm from the base of the jet ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "we do not consider here the region ( i ) since it has been discussed recently by levinson & waxman  ( 2001 ) and distefano et al .",
    "( 2002 ) .",
    "\\(ii ) nucleons from disintegration of nuclei are not able to produce efficiently pions in collisions with the disk radiation but they are able to fragment significantly on separate nucleons . due to the head on collisions of the nuclei with photons , neutrons move towards the inner disk producing neutrinos in collisions with the matter .",
    "such general picture ( with the difference of injection of neutrons by protons ) has been proposed for the accretion disks in active galactic nuclei ( nellen et al  1993 ) .",
    "the region ( ii ) extends along the jet to the distance , @xmath35 , at which density of photons from the disk becomes comparable to that from the wr star ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "by comparing these photon densities , we estimate @xmath36 .",
    "the photon density from the massive star at the distance equal to the separation of the components is @xmath37 . for density of photons from the disk",
    "[ eq1 ] .",
    "\\(iii ) in this region radiation from the wr star dominates . as we show",
    "later this region is at least an order of magnitude larger than the inner regions dominated by the radiation of the accretion disk .",
    "neutrons extracted from nuclei in the region ( iii ) move mainly towards the surface of the wr star due to the head on collisions of nuclei with the stellar photons .    in conclusion , depending on the region in the jet where nuclei are accelerated above the threshold for their efficient photo - disintegrations ( i , ii , or iii ) , we expect production of neutrinos either in the direction along the jet ( region i ) , or in the direction opposite to the jet propagation , i.e. through the accretion disk ( region ii ) , or at the wide solid angle centered on the plane of the binary system ( region iii ) . note , that in the case of significant doppler boosting the borders between specific regions move down , since the disk radiation plays minor role due to the collimation of the relativistic nuclei in the jet .",
    "this effect is not considered here in detail since the doppler factor of the jet in cyg x-3 is not far from unity .",
    "in order to estimate the maximum energies of nuclei accelerated in the jet , let us assume that the magnetic field energy density in the inner part of the accretion disk ( at the base of the jet ) is in the equipartition with the energy density of radiation , i.e. @xmath38 . for the disk temperature at the inner radius , @xmath39 k , the magnetic field can be as large as @xmath40 g. the magnetic field drops along the jet according to @xmath41 ( for @xmath42 ) , where @xmath43 rad is the jet opening angle .",
    "the acceleration rate of nuclei can be expressed by @xmath44 where @xmath45 is the efficiency of acceleration mechanism , @xmath46 , and @xmath47 are the mass and the charge of the nuclei , and @xmath48 .",
    "nuclei can in principle reach the maximum lorentz factors allowed by the spatial extend of the acceleration region , @xmath49 , as large as @xmath50 the maximum lorentz factors of nuclei can be limited by their escape time along the jet , @xmath51 ( estimated above ) , or by their energy losses in collisions with thermal photons on the pion and the disintegration processes ( the energy losses on @xmath52 production can be neglected in respect to these processes ) . by comparing the acceleration time scale of nuclei in the jet , @xmath53 with their escape time scale , @xmath51 , we conclude that nuclei can be potentially accelerated in the jet up to @xmath54 ( given by eq .",
    "[ eq3 ] ) .",
    "it has been shown above that in the regions ii and iii of the jet , the pion interaction time scale is longer than the escape time scale and so the acceleration time scale .",
    "therefore , the acceleration of nuclei in regions ii and iii of the jet is not limited by their energy losses on pion production . below we discuss in detail the role of disintegration process in our model .",
    "heavy relativistic nuclei can lose efficiently nucleons due to the photo - disintegration process in collisions with thermal photons from the accretion disk or the massive star if photon energies in the reference frame of the nuclei are above @xmath55 mev , i.e. @xmath56 .",
    "this condition gives the lower limit on the lorentz factor of accelerated nuclei above which their photo - disintegration becomes important , @xmath57 the most efficient disintegrations occur when the photon energies correspond to the maximum in the photo - disintegration cross - section of nuclei , which is at @xmath58 mev ( with the half width of @xmath55 mev ) @xcite , for nuclei with the mass numbers between helium and oxygen .",
    "let s estimate the efficiency of the photo - disintegration process of nuclei in the region ii and iii .",
    "the mean free path for dissociation of a single nucleon from the nuclei is @xmath59 , where @xmath60 is the density of thermal photons coming from the accretion disk ( see eq .  [ eq1 ] ) , or the wr star , @xmath61 , where @xmath62 , and @xmath63 is the distance from the wr star .",
    "the photo - disintegration cross section at the peak of the giant resonance and the plateau region after the resonance are : @xmath64 @xmath29 ( valid for @xmath65 ) , and @xmath66 @xmath29 ( @xmath67 ) @xcite .",
    "the characteristic photo - disintegration time scales of nuclei with the mass number @xmath68 in the radiation field of the accretion disk ( @xmath39 k ) and the wr star ( @xmath69 k ) , @xmath70 , are @xmath71 s and @xmath72 s , respectively . on the other site ,",
    "the convection escape time of nuclei along the jet is of the order of @xmath73 , equal to @xmath74 s ( if @xmath75 ) . by comparing @xmath76 and @xmath77 , we get the upper limit for the distance from the wolf - rayet star , @xmath78 , below which the photo - disintegration process of nuclei is important .",
    "this is the upper bound on the region ( iii ) .",
    "nuclei accelerated in the region ( iii ) lose neutrons which fall onto the wolf - rayet star up at angles @xmath79 ( measured from the plane of the binary system ) which fulfill the condition : @xmath80 .    in order to determine the conditions for acceleration of nuclei",
    "let us compare the acceleration time scale , @xmath81 s , with the photo - disintegration time scale , @xmath82 .",
    "the maximum lorentz factor to which nuclei can be accelerated before significant disintegration are then : @xmath83 and @xmath84 , for the region ( ii ) and ( iii ) respectively ( applying @xmath85 , @xmath43 , and @xmath86 ) . the comparison of these lorentz factors with the minimum lorentz factor of nuclei for the efficient photo - disintegration process ( see eq .",
    "4 ) allows us to estimate the required value of the acceleration efficiency in the regions ii and iii , @xmath87 ( for @xmath88 ) and @xmath89 ( for @xmath90 ) , above which nuclei at first obtain the power law spectrum and then lose separate neutrons .",
    "neutrons separated from nuclei also have a power law spectrum with the spectral index of the parent nuclei .",
    "if @xmath91 , neutrons are injected by nuclei with the lorentz factors close to @xmath92 , i.e. they are almost mono - energetic .",
    "therefore , we consider the injection of neutrons by nuclei with the mono - energetic and the power law spectra .",
    "most of neutrons extracted from nuclei in the region ( ii ) move towards the inner part of the accretion disk and from the region ( iii ) towards the massive star producing neutrinos and @xmath3-rays in hadronic interactions with the matter .",
    "@xmath3-rays , from the decay of neutral pions , are absorbed by very high column density of matter ( accept a narrow region around the stellar limb ) but neutrinos can pass through the main part of the interior of the star without absorption . for the parameters of the wolf - rayet stars the optical depth is larger than unity only for neutrinos moving close to the center of the star , i.e. with the impact parameter less than @xmath93 which corresponds only to a few percent of the full stellar disk ( see e.g. bartosik et al .",
    "therefore , the fraction of neutrinos absorbed inside the star is relatively low and can be neglected .",
    "we calculate the muon neutrino ( and anti - neutrino ) spectra produced by neutrons with the mono - energetic and the power law spectra .",
    "the multiple interactions of neutrons with the matter have been taken into account up to their cooling to 100 gev .",
    "we apply the scale breaking model for hadronic interactions developed by wdowczyk & wolfendale  ( 1987 ) .",
    "the neutrino spectra are calculated for the mono - energetic nuclei accelerated in the region ( ii ) to the lorentz factors @xmath94 and for the power law spectrum with the spectral indexes equal to 2 and 2.5 and the cut - offs at lorentz factors @xmath95 and @xmath2 ( see fig .",
    "we apply the distance to the cyg x-3 binary system equal to 10 kpc and assume that @xmath96 of the jet energy is transported to relativistic nuclei .",
    "the spectra are clearly above the atmospheric neutrino background ( anb ) provided that the spectrum of accelerated nuclei is flatter than 2.5 and extends above @xmath97 .",
    "the spectra produced by mono - energetic nuclei are significantly below the anb",
    ". therefore , acceleration of nuclei in the region ii with the efficiency @xmath98 can not be tested by neutrino telescopes .",
    "the neutrino spectra produced by neutrons separated from nuclei accelerated in the region ( iii ) in collisions with the matter of the massive star are shown in fig .",
    "neutrinos from regions ii and iii have similar fluxes .",
    "they should be easily observed by the 1 km@xmath1 neutrino detector of the icecube type ( hill 2001 ) .",
    "the smaller scale detectors can already put interesting constraints on the efficiency of high energy processes in microquasars .",
    "for example , the case of mono - energetic injection of nuclei into the region ( iii ) with the energy conversion efficiency @xmath96 is already above the upper limit on the neutrino flux from the cyg x-3 derived on the base of the 3 yr of data accumulated by the amanda ii detector ( ackermann et al .",
    "this limit is also within the factor of two to the predicted neutrino spectrum for the case of injection of nuclei with the power law spectrum and spectral index 2 ( see figs .",
    "2a and 2b ) .",
    "let s estimate the neutrino event rate in a 1 km@xmath1 neutrino detector from the cyg x-3 type binary system .",
    "for that we apply the likelihood of neutrino detection by a 1 km@xmath1 detector obtained by gaisser & grillo  ( 1987 ) and the absorption coefficients of neutrinos in the earth obtained by gandhi  ( 2000 ) .",
    "we consider two limiting cases , i.e. the source close to the horizon ( neutrinos not absorbed by the earth ) , and the source at the nadir ( neutrinos partially absorbed ) .",
    "the number of events per year per km@xmath1 expected for the mono - energetic injection of nuclei in the region iii is @xmath99 events , and for nuclei with the power law spectrum in the region ii ( and the region iii ) : 16.5 ( 14 ) events for the spectral index @xmath100 and the cut - off at the lorentz factor @xmath101 , and 11 ( 8.3 ) events for the cut - off at @xmath2 , and @xmath102 ( @xmath103 ) events for @xmath104 and @xmath101 .",
    "since the neutrino spectra do not extend much above a few @xmath105 gev , the effects of absorption of neutrinos in the earth are only of the order of @xmath0 .",
    "such event rates should be detected above the anb by the icecube detector if the spectrum of accelerated nuclei is flatter than 2.5 .",
    "note that predicted neutrino signals from the regions ( ii ) and ( iii ) should be emitted in completely different directions .",
    "neutrinos from the accretion disk are collimated along the axis of the jet .",
    "in contrast , neutrinos from the wr star are emitted inside the broad solid angle around the plane of the binary system and should be modulated with the orbital period of the binary system reaching the maximum when the compact object is behind the wolf - rayet star .",
    "this should help to separate the neutrino signal from the anb .",
    "therefore , even smaller scale neutrino detectors , e.g. of the amanda ii and antares type , might be also able to detect such microquasars in compact massive binaries within our galaxy or at least put strong constraints on the efficiency of hadron acceleration in their jets .",
    "the angular features of the neutrino emission , coupled with the information on the geometry of the binary system , should allow to distinguish between the two discussed regions for hadron acceleration giving information on the acceleration process and formation of jets .",
    "the hadronic processes considered in this paper also turn to the production of neutral pions which decay onto high energy gamma - rays .",
    "gamma - rays produced in the interaction of neutrons with the matter of the accretion disk initiate partial cascades which electromagnetic products might emerge from some parts of the accretion disk ( see e.g. cheng & ruderman  1991 ) .",
    "however , it has been shown by e.g. carraminana ( 1992 ) and bednarek ( 1993 ) that gamma - rays with energies @xmath106 gev should be strongly absorbed in the radiation field produced by the accretion disk .",
    "gamma - rays produced in the interaction of neutrons with the matter of the massive star are absorbed inside the star except these ones which move inside the narrow cone around the stellar limb where the density of matter is low enough for the escape of gamma - rays without significant absorption in the matter .",
    "however these tev gamma - rays are significantly absorbed in the thermal radiation of the massive star ( bednarek  2000 , or sierpowska & bednarek 2005 ) since they are produced very close to the stellar surface .",
    "we conclude that the hadronic model considered here does not predict gamma - ray fluxes which can be observed by the cherenkov telescopes at energies above a few tens gev . only gamma - rays below these energies",
    "can escape from the dense soft radiation of the massive star and the accretion disk being potentially detected by the satellite experiments such as agile and glast .",
    "however if significant amount of the jet energy is transfered to relativistic leptons at relatively large distances from the base of the jet , then microquasars can also produce observable fluxes of tev gamma - rays in processes similar to that observed in bl lacs .",
    "ackermann , m. et al .",
    "2005 , , 71 , 077102 aharonian , f.a . ,",
    "atoyan , a.m. 1991 , , 381 , 220 anchordoqui , l.a . , torres , d.f . , mccauley , t.p .",
    ", romero , f.a .",
    "2003 , , 589 , 481 bartosik , m. , bednarek , w. , sierpowska , a. 2003 , in proc .",
    "28th icrc ( tsukuba , japan ) , eds .",
    "kajita et al .",
    "bednarek , w. 1993 , a&a , 278 , 307 bednarek , w. 2000 , a&a , 362 , 646 berezinsky , v.s . , castagnoli , c. , galeotti , p. 1985",
    ", il nuovo cim .",
    ", 8c , 185 bishop , g.r .",
    "1957 , handbuch der physik ( springer - verlag ) , v. 42 , p. 336",
    "bonnet - bidaud , j.m . ,",
    "chardin , g. 1988 , phys.rep . , 170 , 325 carraminana , a. 1992 , a&a , 264 , 127 cheng , k.s . ,",
    "ruderman , m. 1989 , , 337 , l77 cheng , k.s . , ruderman , m. 1989 , , 373 , 187 distefano , c. , guetta , d. , waxman , e. , levinson , a. 2002 , , 575 , 378 falcke , h. , krding , e. , markoff , s. 2004 , a&a , 414 , 895 falcke , h. , malkan , m.a . ,",
    "biermann , p.l .",
    "1995 , a&a , 298 , 375 fender , r. 2003 , in compact stellar x - ray sources , eds .",
    "lewin & m. van der klis ( cambridge university press ) ( astro - ph/0303339 ) gaisser , t.k .",
    ", grillo , a.f . 1987 , , 36 , 2752 gaisser , t.k . ,",
    "stanev , t. , 1985 , , 54 , 2265 gandhi , r. 2000 , nucl.phys.suppl .",
    "91 , 453 harding , a.k . , gaisser , t.k .",
    "1990 , , 358 , 561 heger , a. , langer , n. 2000 , , 544 , 1016 hill , g.c .",
    "2001 , in proc .",
    "xxxvi rencontres de moriond , ( http://moriond.in2p3.fr/ew/2001/proceedings/ ) ( astro - ph/0106064 ) karakua , s. , tkaczyk , w. 1993 , astropart.phys . , 1",
    ", 229 kolb , e.w .",
    ", turner , m.s . , walker , t.p .",
    "1985 , , 32 , 1145 levinson , a. , waxman , e. 2001 , , 87 , 171101 lipari , p. 1993 , astropart.phys . 1 ,",
    "195 marti , j. , paredes , j.m . ,",
    "peracaula , m. 2001 , a&a , 375 , 476 mioduszewski , a.j .",
    "et al . 2001 , , 553 , 766 mirabel , i.f . ,",
    "rodriquez , l.f .",
    "1999 , ara&a , 37 , 409 nellen , l. , mannheim , k. , biermann , p.l .",
    "1993 , , 47 , 5270 paredes , j. m. 2005 , in int . symp . on high energy gamma - ray astronomy , eds .",
    "aharonian et al . ,",
    "aip , v. 745 , p. 93",
    "romero , g.e .",
    ", torres , d.f .",
    ", kaufman bernardo , m.m . , mirabel , i.f .",
    "2003 , a&a , 410 , l1 sierpowska , a. , bednarek , w. 2005 , mnras , 356 , 711 spencer , r.e .",
    ", swinney , r.w . ,",
    "johnston , k.j .",
    ", hjellming , r.m .",
    "1986 , , 309 , 694 van der hucht , k.a .",
    "2001 , new astronomy , 45 , 135 wdowczyk , j. , wolfendale , a.w .",
    "1987 , j.phys.g . , 13 , 411 yuan , f. , markoff , s. , falcke , h. 2002 , a&a , 383 , 854 yuan , f. , markoff , s. , falcke , h. , biermann , p.l .",
    "2002 , a&a , 391 , 139"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we consider a compact binary system in which a wolf - rayet star supplies matter onto a stellar mass black hole or a neutron star . </S>",
    "<S> this matter forms an accretion disk which ejects a jet as observed in galactic microquasars . </S>",
    "<S> a part of the jet kinetic energy , typically @xmath0 , can be transfered to relativistic nuclei . </S>",
    "<S> these nuclei lose nucleons as a result of photo - disintegration process in collisions with thermal photons from the accretion disk and the massive star . due to the head on photon - nucleus collisions </S>",
    "<S> most of neutrons released from nuclei move towards the surface of the accretion disk and/or the massive star producing neutrinos in collisions with the matter . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate the spectra of muon neutrinos and expected neutrino event rates in a 1 km@xmath1 neutrino detector of the icecube type from a microquasar inside our galaxy applying , as an example , the parameters of the cyg x-3 binary system . such model predicts up to several neutrino events per km@xmath1 per yr from cyg x-3 , provided that nuclei are accelerated to the lorentz factors above @xmath2 with a power law spectrum with an index close to 2 . </S>"
  ]
}