{
  "article_text": [
    "the detection by the cobe / dmr experiment ( smoot et al .",
    "1993 ) of the anisotropies of the cmb temperature at very large angular scales , above @xmath0 , has open an exiting new mean of investigation for cosmology .",
    "many experiments that are now under development will provide us in the near future with precious data at smaller angular scale , down to a fraction of a degree . at such angular scales",
    "the dominant mechanism that generates the cmb anisotropies is the primary , linear order , coupling of the various cosmic fluids ( photons , baryons and different species of possible dark matter ) before and during recombinaison .",
    "whether the primary anisotropies originate from quantum fluctuations in an inflationary scenario , or from other mechanisms such as topological defects generated in a phase transition epoch is yet unclear .",
    "this is undoubtlessly a major scientific goal for the coming experiments . indeed ,",
    "one of the clearest signature of the topological models is that they are expected to induce non - gaussian primary temperature fluctuations ( pen et al .",
    "1994 , turok 1996 , barnes & turok 1996 ) .",
    "but even in the case of inflationary scenario , it is possible that secondary effects , non - linear couplings of the radiation field with matter , induce non - gaussian features .",
    "this is particularly important at very small angular scale , down to the arcmin scale .",
    "i am more particularly interested here in the static lens effects .",
    "the effects of the gravitational distortion on the power spectrum of the primary temperature maps have been the subject of many investigations in the last decade ( blanchard & schneider 1987 , kashlinsky 1988 , cole & efstathiou 1989 , sasaki 1989 , tomita & watanabe 1989 , linder 1990 , cayn , martnez - gonzlez & sanz 1993a , b , fukushige , makino & ebisuzaki 1994 , seljak 1996 ) .",
    "it is now clear that the lens effect on the power spectrum is small , although it is probably worth to take it into account in a very detailed analysis of such measurements . in principle , for an inflationary scenario , a detailed analysis of the cmb power spectrum should allow to constrain very accurately the cosmological parameters ( see for instance jungman et al .",
    "but it would be anyway extremely interesting to be able to have a positive detection of the lens effect since it can potentially be used to constrain the amplitude of the cosmic density power spectrum , independently of the constraints obtained from the cmb power spectrum itself .",
    "it could therefore be a precious test for the cosmological model(s ) favored by the shape of the cmb power spectrum .",
    "in a previous paper , the four point functions induced by the lens effects has been investigated ( bernardeau 1997 ) . this is the most direct quantity that can be calculated from the coupling terms introduced by the lenses .",
    "one thus obtains specific properties of cmb maps induced by the lenses .",
    "another possible way of investigation is to look for cross - correlation between the cmb temperature gradients and the displacement field induced by the projected large - scale structures ( suginohara et al .",
    "the signal however depends on the bias properties of the galaxies .",
    "it can not be directly interpreted in terms of cosmological parameters .    if the four point function is indeed sensitive to the intrinsic depth of the lens potential wells , it is not necessarily the best indicator in terms of signal to noise ratio for a realistic experiment .",
    "the aim of this paper is therefore to investigate new means of detecting these effects . in section 2",
    "i present numerical results showing peculiar examples of the lens effects on temperature maps .",
    "the visual impression is that the lens effects induce a change in the topological properties of the temperature maps , and not so much in the local temperature distribution function .",
    "this is the motivation for the investigation of other statistical indicators that can reveal the lens effects with a better efficiency .",
    "particularly interesting can be the statistical properties of the local curvature of the temperature maps .",
    "the matrix of the second order temperature derivatives has indeed specific statistical properties in case of a 2d gaussian field .",
    "these properties are affected when the lens effects are taken into account because of the induced mode couplings .",
    "more specifically a quantity that can be a good tracer of the lens effect is the probability distribution function of the local ellipticity since lenses tend to systematically stretch the local temperature patches .",
    "compared to the 4-point function the motivation for considering such a quantity is then double .",
    "first of all , the cosmic variance is expected to be smaller : it is given by statistical properties related to the second order derivative , and therefore more sensitive to the small scale temperature fluctuations .",
    "secondly the effects of lenses on the four - point function were found to be proportional to the cosine of the angle joining the observational directions ( see bernardeau 1997 ) , which tends to substantially reduce the lens signal when it is averaged for the computation of the four point moment .",
    "such a cancellation is not expected for the distortion effect on the curvature .",
    "the derivation of the lens effect for the distribution function of the local ellipticity is presented in section 3 . in section 4 , results are confronted with numerical experiments .",
    "in particular i estimate the cosmic variance for the ellipticity statistics . in the last section",
    "i discuss the dependence of the lens effects on the cosmological parameters .",
    "first of all let me recall the basic effect induced by the lenses .",
    "i am interested here in the static lenses caused by the presence along the line - of - sights of large - scale concentrations of matter .",
    "these concentrations of matter are of course intrinsic to any theory of large - scale structure formation .",
    "the effects presented in this paper are therefore robust consequences of the growth of structures .",
    "the amplitude of the effects , however , depends not only on the amplitude of the local fluctuations but also on the global cosmological parameters : the lens effects are all the more large that the cmb plane is distant from the lenses .",
    "the dependence of the signal on the cosmological parameters is discussed in the last section .",
    "the static lenses ( contrary to the case of moving lenses , see birkinshaw & gull 1983 ) do not change the background temperature of the cmb , but only induce a displacement field so that the observed temperature fluctuation in a given direction @xmath1 is the one coming from a slightly shifted direction , @xmath2 , ( ) = ( + ( ) ) , [ leff ] where @xmath3 is the displacement field induced by the lenses along the line of sight in the direction @xmath1 .",
    "written in terms of the gravitational potential @xmath4 , the displacement reads , ( ) = -2_0^_cmb ( , ) , where @xmath5 and @xmath6 are respectively the radial and angular distances .",
    "these quantities are identical in case of a background universe with zero curvature .",
    "@xmath7 is the angular distance to the last scattering surface .",
    "the lens population identifies with the large - scale structures of the universe that are present along the line of sights .",
    "it is important to have in mind that the displacements induced by these matter concentrations are at most of the order of 1 arcmin for cluster cores , whereas the instrumental resolution for the future satellite missions is at best 5 arcmin . as a result , it is safe to neglect the influence of the critical regions and the lens effect is assumed here to be fully in the weak lensing regime .",
    "a consequence of this remark is that the effects investigated in this paper can be entirely described by the two - point correlation properties of the lens population .",
    "the precise reason is that the displacement field being a small perturbation of the primordial field , its leading contribution can be expressed perturbatively solely with the two - point correlation function of either the displacement field or its derivatives such as the local gravitational convergence .",
    "this situation was already encountered in the computation of the induced temperature four - point function ( bernardeau 1997 ) .",
    "therefore , the lens effects will depend quantitatively only on the shape and magnitude of the cosmic density power spectrum , @xmath8 , defined from the fourier transform of the local density field , ( ) = _ ( ) , with then , _ _",
    "=_dirac(+)p(k ) .",
    "note that in this analysis , @xmath8 , is the actual power spectrum , that includes possible nonlinear evolution of the density field .",
    "written in terms of the modes @xmath9 the displacement field reads , ( ) & = [ dgam ] + & ( ) , with , w()= .[eff ] the function @xmath10 gives the lens efficiency function for sources located on the last scattering surface .",
    "the second moment of the displacement field then reads & ^2= + & p(k ) . applying the small angle approximation ,",
    "the integral in @xmath11 introduces a dirac function in @xmath12 so that ^2&=. it is then simple to see that the displacement field can be expressed in terms of a 2d projected potential , @xmath13 , defined by 2d(l)= , with ^2=. the lens effects are thus entirely determined by @xmath14 .      the effect of the mechanism described in ( [ leff ] )",
    "can be easily visualized in a simple numerical experiment .",
    "a realistic temperature map can be generated from a given power spectrum , @xmath15 .",
    "a 2d displacement field can also be generated as a realization of a gaussian process with the power spectrum @xmath14 obtained from a given 3d power spectrum . in the following",
    "i use a standard cdm model for both the temperature map and the displacement field .",
    "the normalization of the temperature power spectrum is arbitrary ; the one of the displacement field will be discussed in terms of @xmath16 , i.e. the r.m.s .",
    "of the density fluctuations at @xmath17 mpc scale .",
    "a technical simplification is to assume that the displacement field is gaussian .",
    "this is obviously not exact , specially at small scale , but as it has already been mentioned , the lens effects depend only on the power spectrum of the projected lens density . to mimic the effects of the lens on the cmb maps it is thus not necessary to have a full 3d realization of the large - scale structures .",
    "note that the non - linear effects for the evolution of the lens density field are implicitly taken into account with the use of the non - linear power spectrum @xmath8 ( jain et al .",
    "1995 , peacock & dodds 1996 , following the approach of hamilton et al .",
    "the effects of the lenses are then computed from the equation ( 1 ) : it means that the lensed temperature map is given by the primordial one , but on a now irregular grid .",
    "the lensed temperature map is obtained by a `` regridding '' of the temperature map , with a local linear interpolation of the temperature with the nearest neighbors .",
    "this algorithm is usually available in standard mathematical packages .",
    "the two maps of fig 1 show the effects of lenses .",
    "the effect is of course magnified so that it can be easily detected by a visual inspection of a very small map",
    ". the value of @xmath16 would be here of about 2 .",
    "the size of the maps is 4x4 degrees , for a pixel size of 1.17. on the lensed map , one can see that the temperature patches are still present with the same temperature contrasts .",
    "they are however displaced and deformed .",
    "the most striking feature is probably that there are very sharp edges and extended area of constant gradients .",
    "all these features suggest that the local curvature is probably a good indicator of the lens effects .",
    "the temperature curvature is defined from the matrix of the second order derivatives of the local temperature , c_ij & that can be written , c_ij= & (    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     in table 1 , i summarize the results obtained for the determination of @xmath18 with a best fit and the error associated with this determination .",
    "this error has been determined as the r.m.s . of the determined @xmath19 among the 20 realizations at my disposal .",
    "one can see that the signal ratio grows indeed with @xmath16 and scales like @xmath20 for a given filtering scale .",
    "the filtering effects however reduce the signal by a factor 3 from what would be expected with a direct determination of @xmath18 .",
    "the noise is independent on @xmath16 but depends slightly on the filtering scale .",
    "the signal to noise ratio expected for the planck survey at 5 resolution scale is thus about 3 if @xmath21 .",
    "fig . 4 and the last line of the table",
    "show the effects of noise of the measured map .",
    "its effect is found to be very weak .",
    "however the noise here has been assumed to be a pure white noise , and thus , for the ellipticity statistics , it reproduces the gaussian case .",
    "this is certainly not a realistic assumption .",
    "the striping introduces indeed nonlocal correlations that may affect significantly statistics that are related to local topological quantities .",
    "the study of the striping effect is very dependent on the experiments and is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "the dependence on the cosmological parameters is explored here in a quite rough way .",
    "the temperature power spectrum , and its relation to the density power spectrum , has indeed a rather complicated dependence on all the cosmological parameters .",
    "so in this simple study i will assume that the shapes of @xmath15 and @xmath8 remain the same and simply discuss the dependence of the amplitude of @xmath18 on the cosmological parameters due to the density - convergence relationship .",
    "the ratio @xmath22 is obviously a quantity that one might want to consider but it should be compared to other constraints coming from large - scale structure formation",
    ". the number density of clusters can provide us with a constraint which is in principle free of bias contamination .",
    "it constrains the amplitude of the density fluctuations at roughly the @xmath23 mpc scale for an einstein - de sitter universe ( oukbir et al 1997 ) , which corresponds roughly to the scale of interest for the lens cmb effects . for open universes the dependence can not be given simply in terms of @xmath16 because linear mass scale of the galaxy clusters is shifted to a larger scale .",
    "a dependence arises then with the slope of the power spectrum ( oukbir & blanchard 1997 ) . ignoring these subtleties , and following eke , cole & frenk ( 1996 )",
    "i will simply assume that the actual constraint coming from the observed number density of rich clusters can be written , _ 8  ^0.50.60.1 .",
    "it means that the larger @xmath24 the smaller @xmath16 . to estimate the variation of @xmath18 with roughly a fixed number density of clusters , one",
    "should then compute @xmath25 .",
    "the result is given in fig .",
    "one can see , as expected , that the magnitude of the signal is very weakly @xmath24 dependent if @xmath26 but significantly grows with @xmath27 .",
    "it implies that the signal to noise ratio would be a factor about 2 larger for a @xmath27-cdm .",
    "the observational quantities that have been investigated here have been designed to be sensitive to the non - linear couplings induced by lens effects .",
    "it is of course possible to consider other quantities , such as the minkowski functionals , whose general properties for a gaussian field have been recently investigated in detail ( winitzki & kosowski 1997 and schmalzing & grski 1997 ) .",
    "the lens effects might indeed significantly affect the minkowski functional for 2d maps .",
    "for instance the shapes of high threshold peaks are shown to be more elongated , which implies that the averaged circumference near the top of the peak should increase . however , a complete theoretical investigation of this effect is quite difficult because this is a nonlocal indicator . and",
    "in general , the most efficient non - gaussian indicators probably depend on the processes one wants to detect .",
    "the number of hot and cold spots seems to be a good way to detect topological defects .",
    "is is obviously not the case for the lenses .    in a previous paper",
    "the four - point function was considered .",
    "actually the local curvature can be viewed as an other way to have access to the same information . here",
    "the four point function is simply averaged in a way that avoid too much cancellation . and other possible quantity is the collapsed four - point function , that identifies with the four order cumulant of the local temperature .",
    "this quantity however tends to cancel the contribution of the various terms .",
    "this seems not to be the case for the local curvature .",
    "it does not mean however that we can not do better for detecting the lens effects .",
    "for instance the two - point correlation function of the local ellipticity ( with orientation ) might be a good indicator .",
    "however one should have in mind that the number of cmb structures per lens is rather small .",
    "it is thus not obvious that it can improve the situation .",
    "note that the results obtained for the lens effects , temperature four - point function or ellipticity statistics , are all sensitive to the lens two - point correlation function .",
    "it comes from the fact that the only quantity related to the lenses which is potentially available from cmb maps is its power - spectrum .",
    "the non - gaussian properties of the lens population are for instance not accessible .",
    "if it is actually possible to detect a lens effect , the smallness of the signal to noise ratio with which it can be determined indicates that it will be pointless to use this information as a mean to constrain the cosmological parameters .",
    "but , it would be extremely interesting to be able to check that the amount of lens effects computed from models favored by the cmb power spectrum are in agreement with its detection , or its non - detection .",
    "note however that other secondary effects might as well induce non - gaussian properties .",
    "the rees - sciama effect in particular is due to the evolving non - linear potentials and has a source term which is intrinsically non - gaussian .",
    "a peculiar case of this effect is the moving lens effect ( birkinshaw & gull 1983 ) : potential wells that move perpendicularly to the line of sight induce temperature fluctuations .",
    "this effect is quadratic with the cosmic fields ( proportional to the local velocity times the gradient of the potential ) and is thus intrinsically non - gaussian .",
    "these cases are probably worth investigating .",
    "i expect however that they give a smaller non - gaussian signal since the static lens effect is the only mechanism that couples the primary anisotropies to the line of sight potentials .",
    "part of this work has been initially pursued with thibaut marrel who is warmly thanked for it .",
    "the author is also grateful to y. mellier for many fruitful discussions and a careful reading of the manuscript , to u. seljak and b. jain for the use of their codes .",
    "barnes , c. & turok , n. 1997 , hep - ph/9702377 bernardeau , f. 1997 , a&a , 324 , 1 birkinshaw , m. & gull , s.f .",
    "1983 , nature , 302 , 315 blanchard , a. & schneider , j. 1987 , a&a , 184 , 1 bond , j.r . ,",
    "efstathiou , g. 1987 , mnras , 226 , 655 cayn , l. , martnez - gonzlez , e. & sanz , j.l .",
    "1993a , apj , 403 , 471 cayn , l. , martnez - gonzlez , e. & sanz , j.l .",
    "1993b , apj , 413 , 10 cole , s. , efstathiou , g. 1989 , mnras , 239 , 195 fukushige , t. , makino , j. & ebisuzaki , t. 1994 , apj , 436 , l107 hamilton , a.j.s . , matthews , a. , kumar , p. & lu e. 1991 , apj , 374 , 1 jain , b. , mo , h. j. & white , s.d.m .",
    "1995 , mnras , 276 , l25 jungman , g. , kamionkowski , m. , kosowsky , a. & spergel , d.n . , 1996 , astro - ph/9512139 kashlinsky , a. 1988 , apj , 331 , l1 linder , v.e . , 1990 , mnras , 243 , 353 oukbir , j. , blanchard , a. 1997 , a&a , 317 , 1 oukbir , j. , bartlett , j.g . ,",
    "blanchard , a. 1997 , a&a , 320 , 365 peacock , j.a . &",
    "dodds , s. j.1996 , mnras , 282 , 877 pen , u. , spergel , d. , turok , n. 1994 , phys .",
    "d , 49 , 692 sasaki , m. 1989 , mnras , 240 , 415 smoot , g. f. et al .",
    "1993 , apj , 396 , l1 seljak , u. 1996 , apj 463 , 1 .",
    "seljak , u. & zaldarriaga , m. 1996 , apj , 469 , 437 schmalzing , j. & grski , k.m .",
    "1997 , astro - ph/9710185 suginohara , m. , suginohara , t. , spergel d. n. 1997 , astro - ph/9705134 tomita , k. & watanabe , k. 1989 , prog .",
    "phys . , 82 , 563 turok , n. 1996 , apj , 473 , l5 winitzki , s. & kosowsky , a. 1997 , astro - ph/9710164"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> weak lensing effects are known to introduce non - linear couplings in the cmb temperature maps . in inflationary scenario , </S>",
    "<S> the primary cmb anisotropies are expected to form a 2d gaussian map , for which , the probability distribution function of the ellipticity defined from the local temperature curvature matrix has a very specific shape . </S>",
    "<S> i show that lenses alter significantly the shape of this pdf , inducing an excess of elongated structures . </S>",
    "<S> the precise functional form is computed for both the field points and the temperature extrema .    </S>",
    "<S> these analytical results are confirmed by numerical experiments on 10x10 square degree maps . </S>",
    "<S> these numerical results allow to investigate the effects of smoothing and to estimate the cosmic variance . </S>",
    "<S> for the best resolution and sky coverage of the planck mission the signal to noise ratio for the statistical indicators presented here is about 3 to 6 depending on the cosmological models . </S>",
    "<S> a marginal detection should therefore be possible .    </S>",
    "<S> 0b_0 _ _ _ 2dp_2d _    psfig.sty </S>"
  ]
}