{
  "article_text": [
    "the present structure of our galaxy is result of a complex dynamical evolution in space and time .",
    "globular clusters ( gcs ) are excellent tracers of this evolution because they interact with the gravitational field of the milky way , which affects their internal dynamics ( meylan & heggie 1997 ) .",
    "when passing through the galactic disk or the bulge , tidal shocks occur and these can have dramatic effects on the cluster evolution ( gnedin et al . 1999 , dehnen et al . 2004 ) .",
    "n - body simulations have shown that the resulting tidal tails may be used to trace the orbital paths of gcs , which in turn reveals information about the enclosed mass of the galaxy ( e.g. , combes et al .",
    "1999 ; capuzzo dolcetta et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "recent star count surveys have revealed tidal tails stretching many degrees beyond the cluster tidal radius , for which the best cases include palomar  5 and ngc  5466 ( odenkirchen et al . 2001 , 2003 ; belokurov et al .",
    "2006 ; grillmair & johnson 2006 ) .",
    "these tails are believed to be cluster stars that have escaped due to tidal shocking .",
    "a crucial ingredient in these discoveries was the statistics of stars : in order to detect a non - circular over - density around a cluster , one has to eliminate galactic field stars very carefully . escaped cluster members are usually identified by their colours and apparent magnitudes , using optimal contrast filtering in the color - magnitude plane .",
    "this approach , however effective in distant and unreddened clusters , can not easily be used for nearby clusters that have strong galactic star contamination and/or heavy interstellar reddening . however",
    ", these clusters could play a very important role in constraining models of tidal disruption , because they represent the state of a gc immediately before / after a gravitational shock by passing through the disk .",
    "the recently commissioned aaomega fiber - fed multi - object spectrograph ( sharp et al . 2006 ) on the 3.9 m anglo - australian telescope offers a unique possibility for measuring radial velocities with 12 km / s precision for up to 350360 stars per exposure in two - degree field of view , which enables a spectroscopic distinction between field stars and gc members over several tidal radii . in this letter",
    "we report on the first results of a such survey for five southern gcs .",
    "the targets ( table  [ sample ] ) have been selected from the catalogue of harris ( 1996 ) , using the following criteria : _ ( i ) _ nearby , thus with low or moderate reddening ; _ ( ii ) _ small tidal radius ( @xmath020@xmath1 ) , so that the two - degree field of the instrument covers an area that is several times @xmath2 across ; _ ( iii ) _ large radial velocity compared to the galactic field , which allows membership identification . with telescope time granted in august 2006 , the two best gcs were m55 and m30 , both with very large radial velocities .",
    "we also consulted the tidal tail study of leon et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , which resulted in adding ngc  288 to the targets .",
    "m12 was included because of the suggested severe tidal stripping ( de marchi et al .",
    "2006 ) , while 47  tuc for its known systemic rotation ( meylan & mayor 1986 ) .",
    "two of these objects , m55 and m12 , lie outside the `` surviving '' boundaries of gcs in figs .",
    "21 - 24 of gnedin & ostriker ( 1997 ) , favouring the possibility of significant tidal tails .",
    "the observations were carried out on six and a half clear nights , between august 12 and august 18 , 2006 , with typical seeing between 1.2@xmath3 and 2.2@xmath3 .",
    "the data were taken with the d1700 grating that has been optimized for recording the ca  ii infrared triplet region . the spectra range between 8350",
    "  and 8790  , with a resolving power of @xmath410,500 .",
    "each cluster was observed with several field configurations , which were all centered on the cluster .",
    "for every configuration we exposed 60 to 90 minutes , giving signal - to - noise ratios 50 to 250 .    of the 392 fibers of the instrument , we used 30 for sky background measurements and 5 to 8 for guiding .",
    "lists of target stars were prepared using the 2mass point source catalog ( skrutskie et al .",
    "2006 ) . for m55 , we selected stars that matched the color and magnitude range of the red giant branch . for m30 and ngc  288 , we did not restrict the sample , while for 47  tuc and m12 we selected the faint end of the red giant branch .",
    "the @xmath5 magnitudes of the selected stars fell between 8 mag and 15 mag . to minimize cross - talk of the fibers due to scattered light , each field configuration was limited to stars in a 3-mag wide range .",
    "for this , @xmath6- and @xmath7-band magnitudes were estimated from the 2mass @xmath8 magnitudes , using a set of linear transformations @xmath9 , which was calibrated using equatorial standard stars from landolt ( 1983 , 1992 ) , cross - identified with the 2mass catalogue ( @xmath10 refers to the johnson bands ) .",
    "these transformations gave a useful and robust relation between landolt and 2mass , with the r.m.s .",
    "of the fits about 0.1 mag or less .",
    "the spectra were reduced using the standard 2df data reduction pipeline that extracts the wavelength calibrated spectra automatically .",
    "we performed continuum normalization separately and cleaned the strongest skylines that had residuals left , using linear interpolation of the surrounding continuum .",
    ".[sample ] the observed globular clusters and their parameters .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,<,>,^ , < \" , ]     the good agreement between @xmath11 and @xmath12 in most cases suggests that stars outside the tidal radii belong to the galactic field only .",
    "the largest difference was found for 47  tuc , but its tidal radius covers over 2/3 of the whole field , so that the few stars outside do not provide an accurate estimate of the total contamination .",
    "figs .  [ m12]-[4gh ] show the positions of the stars in the core samples , color coded by the individual @xmath13 values ( fig .  [ m12 ] ) and rvs ( fig.[4gh ] ) . for 47  tuc ,",
    "ngc  288 and m12 we show the full two - degree fields of view , while m55 and m30 are zoomed into the central one - degree field . the only evidence for non - isotropic distribution is found for ngc  288 , where we see a ne - sw elongation that agrees with the reported tidal tails in the literature ( grillmair et al .",
    "1995 ; leon et al .",
    "however , the rvs outside the tidal radius do not show a coherent gradient in any direction , although stars in leading and trailing tails are expected to have systematic velocity shifts with opposite signs of a few km / s ( dehnen et al . 2004 ) . on the other hand",
    ", there is a slight excess of stars outside the tidal radius , represented by the difference @xmath14 .",
    "being positive only for ngc  288 , this excess may support the existence of the reported tidal tails . to find a more conclusive result ,",
    "we will use spectroscopic metallicities to secure membership identification for extra - tidal stars in a future study .",
    "for m12 , the distribution of @xmath13 across the field marks the cluster clearly confined to the tidal radius .",
    "lauchner et al .",
    "( 2006 ) discussed the relation between core concentration and tidal tails , showing that clusters with lower concentration parameter @xmath15 are more likely to have significant extra - tidal debris , and that the cluster concentration is a good predictor of the presence of significant tidal tails . in our sample ,",
    "m55 and ngc  288 have very similarly low concentration than clusters with detected tidal tails ( pal  5 , ngc  5466 , ngc  5053 ) , and yet neither of them has produced a positive detection .    to characterize the limits of our non - detections , we compared the cumulative @xmath5-magnitude distributions of the observed stars with the whole two - degree 2mass fields for m55 , m30 and ngc  288 . for m30",
    ", we observed 87% of all stars in the field",
    "brighter than 13.40 mag , which is 4.7 mag fainter than the tip of the agb . for ngc  288 , 82% of stars",
    "brighter than 13.55 mag were observed ( the tip of the agb plus 5.0 mag ) .",
    "this means we can safely exclude the presence of tidal debris that contains 1% or more of the red giant branch stars in the clusters . for m55 , the numbers show that 50% of all stars",
    "brighter than 12.9 mag that match the color - magnitude diagram of the cluster were observed . with",
    "almost 500 members captured , 1% debris that contains red giant branch stars would have produced two or three clear detections .",
    "this can be firmly excluded considering the large @xmath16 values of the seven extra - tidal stars around m55 ( 5.57.7 ) .",
    "we therefore conclude that the concentration parameter has a much weaker predictive power than suggested by lauchner et al .",
    "( 2006 ) .    to further search for any putative tidal debris , a matched - filter analysis was undertaken for each of the gc systems ( rockosi et al .",
    "stars were selected in the range @xmath17 and @xmath18 and , for each gc , a background colour - magnitude distribution was constructed by considering stars in an annulus of @xmath19 arcmins .",
    "the colour - magnitude distribution was also constructed using stars within the central 3.5 arcmins .",
    "the distributions were binned and smoothed to make them continuous , and subtracting a scaled outer distribution from the inner distribution clearly displayed the colour - magnitude sequence of the cluster itself .",
    "the cluster and background distributions were normalized and the matched - filter analysis was performed on a grid of @xmath20 in a box of 40 arcmins on a side , centred on each cluster .",
    "each point of the grid represented the centre of a box of @xmath21 arcmin for an initial analysis , and @xmath22 arcmin for a secondary analysis , with the matched - filter analysis revealing what number of the stars in that region probably belong to the cluster .",
    "however , while clearly revealing the main body of each cluster , the analysis uncovered no significant substructure that could be interpreted as coherent tidal debris .",
    "our spectra form an excellent database for studying the structure and evolution of the clusters . fig .  [ 4gh ] shows several important features that will help us to model their internal dynamics .",
    "firstly , two clusters , 47  tuc and m55 , are characterized by large - scale asymmetry in velocity distribution that can be interpreted in terms of systemic rotation .",
    "a preliminary analysis of stellar velocities as function of position angle inferred a rotational velocity of 6@xmath231 km / s and 3@xmath231 km / s for 47  tuc and m55 , respectively , of which the 47  tuc result is in excellent agreement with the 6.5 km / s obtained by meylan & mayor ( 1986 ) .",
    "the influence of rotation on dynamical evolution may be significant , thus measuring it gives important clues on realistic models ( combes et al .",
    "our data are the first to show clear signs of rotation for m55 .",
    "secondly , all five clusters are characterized by large velocity dispersions in the center ( blue and red dots sitting next to each other ) that gradually goes down at the edge ( green belts of stars halfway to the tidal radii in fig.[4gh ] ) .",
    "thirdly , we do not see any evidence for increasing dispersion at large radii that would indicate strong tidal heating by the external gravitational field ( drukier et al .",
    "1998 ) , the presence of surrounding dark halo ( carraro & lia 2000 ) or a breakdown of the newtonian dynamics in the weak acceleration regime ( scarpa et al . 2007 ) .",
    "we plan to test these theories in a future investigation .",
    "this work has been supported by a university of sydney research fellowship , the hungarian etvs fellowship and the otka grant # t042509 .",
    "support for program number hst - hf-01170.01-a to g..b . was provided by nasa through a hubble fellowship grant from the stsci , which is operated by the aura , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "b.  also wishes to thank useful discussions to a.  pl and b.  csk .",
    "we are grateful to the staff of the anglo - australian observatory for the superb assistance during the observations ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using the aaomega instrument of the anglo - australian telescope , we have obtained medium - resolution near - infrared spectra of 10,500 stars in two - degree fields centered on the galactic globular clusters 47  tuc , ngc  288 , m12 , m30 and m55 . radial velocities and equivalent widths of the infrared ca ii </S>",
    "<S> triplet lines have been determined to constrain cluster membership , which in turn has been used to study the angular extent of the clusters . from the analysis of 1401000 member stars in each cluster , we do not find extended structures that go beyond the tidal radii . for three cluster </S>",
    "<S> we estimate a 1% upper limit of extra - tidal red giant branch stars . </S>",
    "<S> we detect systemic rotation in 47  tuc and m55 . </S>"
  ]
}