{
  "article_text": [
    "for the last ten years , the lilly - madau diagram @xcite has been central to the discussion of galaxy evolution .",
    "it shows that the star formation rate density ( sfrd ) increases with redshift to around @xmath4 and decreases beyond that . in the last year , thanks to the ultra deep field ( udf ) , several points have been added at the high redshift end of the diagram @xcite .    while the lilly - madau diagram is a useful tool for studying galaxy evolution , it is subject to some uncertainties , particularly at the high redshift end .",
    "typically , high redshift galaxies are selected with the lyman break method , the uv luminosity function is computed , and this is then extrapolated out to the faint end and integrated .",
    "uv light is a good tracer of star formation , so multiplying the total uv luminosity density by a conversion factor yields the star formation density .",
    "one source of uncertainty lies in identifying the high redshift galaxies : the balmer break may be confused with the lyman break , putting spurious galaxies _ in _ to the sample , and galaxies with heavy extinction may be left _",
    "out_. extinction must also be considered when converting the uv flux into a star formation rate .",
    "typically , a factor of 5 is used for the extinction correction , but the exact value is imperfectly known . for these reasons , it would be satisfying to have some corroboration of the star formation rate .",
    "the star formation rate density ( sfrd ) is essentially @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the baryonic mass in the form of stars , normalized to one cubic megaparsec .",
    "the integral of @xmath5 is just @xmath7 , the global stellar mass density ( gsmd ) .",
    "deep infrared images and some means of determining redshift ( either photometrically or spectroscopically ) are required to measure the gsmd .",
    "the nicmos ultra deep field is ideal for this purpose .",
    "it has deep infrared imaging ( 26.5 @xmath8 magnitude ) as well as a wealth of imaging in other bands with which to compute photometric redshifts .",
    "the wavelength coverage extends from u to k in 15 overlapping bands from a number of different surveys .",
    "this paper describes measurements of global stellar mass density out to @xmath0 in the nicmos ultra deep field .",
    "there are a number of measurements of the global stellar mass density in the literature .",
    "@xcite , working with the hdf - south and the fires k data @xcite , measured the rest - frame optical properties of galaxies out to @xmath9 and from their average properties deduced their masses .",
    "@xcite used the hdf - north with nicmos j and h observations .",
    "they computed the global luminosity density out @xmath9 , computed the average mass - to - light ratio of galaxies at these redshifts and so deduced the global mass .",
    "@xcite , on the other hand computed stellar masses for galaxies individually .",
    "they used the k20 survey , which consists of ubvrizjk observations with a limiting magnitude of @xmath10 and spectroscopic redshifts , out to @xmath11 .",
    "@xcite used the gdds survey @xcite , which is also based on multi - wavelength data and spectroscopic redshifts but extends slightly deeper and is specially tuned to the wavelength range @xmath12 .",
    "@xcite used the munics survey @xcite which is shallower ( @xmath13 ) and extends only out to @xmath14 .",
    "the highest redshift survey so far is that of @xcite , who used the goods - south data and fors deep field @xcite to go to @xmath15 and @xmath16 .    in section [ sec : data ]",
    "we describe how we resampled all the various imaging data and produced the catalog of photometry and photometric redshifts . in section [ sec : masses ]",
    "we derive masses and mass functions for the galaxies in the sample and examine the evolution of the global stellar mass density with time . in section",
    "[ sec : discussion ] we compare our measurements of the global stellar mass density evolution with the @xcite model , the predictions from the star formation rate density , and previous work .    throughout this paper",
    "we use the ab magnitude system @xcite and adopt the concordance cosmology of @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 .",
    "the nicmos udf field lies within the goods south region of the sky and has been imaged by a large number of telescopes at a variety of wavelengths .",
    "for this project four sources of imaging data for this field were considered .    * space - based infrared imaging : this data was taken with nicmos under the hst cycle 12 treasury program and forms the basis for this work .",
    "it was taken in two bands , f110w and f160w , which roughly correspond to @xmath20 and @xmath21 . * space - based optical imaging : this is the ultra deep field proper .",
    "the data was taken in four bands : f435w ( @xmath22 ) , f606w ( somewhere between @xmath23 and @xmath24 ) , f775w ( @xmath25 ) and f850lp ( @xmath26 ) . * ground - based infrared imaging : these images were taken as part of the goods survey with isaac on the vlt @xcite .",
    "there are three bands : @xmath27 . unlike the other data sets ,",
    "the isaac data has been released as one image per pointing with multiple pointings , rather than a combined mosaic . ]",
    "* ground - based optical imaging : these were taken as part of the eso imaging survey @xcite .",
    "there are 6 bands : @xmath28 ( @xmath29 is slightly bluer than @xmath30 ) . ]",
    "all of these data have been released in fully processed form .",
    "no additional processing is necessary .",
    "however , the images in each data set have different scales and sizes than the images in other data sets .      there are two drivers to the photometry : in order to compute photometric redshifts , it is necessary to have accurate colors . for this , fixed circular aperture photometry , preferably through a small aperture , is sufficient .",
    "the photometry is also used for computing masses of the galaxies ; for this , accurate total magnitudes are necessary .",
    "total magnitudes are best measured through an adaptive elliptical aperture @xcite . if there are to be no systematic shifts , then these apertures must be matched in all bands .",
    "if the images are registered , this can be done easily using sextractor @xcite in `` double - image mode '' .",
    "since all the images have different scales , they must be resampled to put them on the same astrometric grid .",
    "the resampling was done with swarp @xcite .",
    "swarp s main purpose is to combine several ( not necessarily overlapping ) images into a single image .",
    "it resamples the input images to put them on a common astrometric grid and scales the flux to correct for any photometric shifts between the images .",
    "it can also be used to just remap a single image with no flux scaling .",
    "the nicmos @xmath21 image was used as the base image to which all the other images were matched . the nicmos @xmath20 image needed no remapping , as it was already on the same scale .",
    "the optical images from the udf were remapped .",
    "this changed their scale from 0.03  @xmath31/pixel to 0.09  @xmath31/pixel , making them slightly undersampled .",
    "the isaac images were swarped together so that different pointings in each band were combined into a single mosaic .",
    "the eis images show a small but systematic shift in astrometry with respect to the other data set .",
    "since this shift is several times smaller than the seeing of the ground - based eis images , it was noted , but not corrected .",
    "both sets of ground - based images are greatly over - sampled by the remapping .",
    "the resampling does not introduce any appreciable shifts in either position or flux .",
    "the swarp documentation claims that with 3-pixel lanczos interpolation , position is conserved to within one tenth of a pixel in position and flux is conserved to 0.2% .",
    "we checked this by comparing the properties of objects in the original images to the same properties in the resampled images .",
    "position was measured by centroid , and flux by magnitude in an 1@xmath31 diameter aperture .",
    "no significant shifts in either position or flux were noted .",
    "sextractor @xcite was run in double - image mode on all the images in all the bands .",
    "the nicmos f160w ( @xmath21-band ) image was used as the reference , and @xcite style variable elliptical apertures ( magauto in sextractor ) were computed using the surface brightness profile of the galaxies in the @xmath21-band .",
    "identical apertures were then used to measure photometry in the other images .",
    "initially , we used the photometric zero - points given by the producers of each image .",
    "however , it soon became apparent that these zero - points were in slight systematic disagreement with each another .",
    "this was discovered by converting all the magnitudes for different objects into fluxes and plotting these fluxes as a function of central wavelength of the filter in question .",
    "there are a total of 15 overlapping photometric bands covering the wavelength range 3500  to 21500 .",
    "therefore , the spectral energy distributions generated in this manner are very well defined .",
    "it was found that some bands were systematically higher relative to neighboring bands .",
    "to derive the values of the photometric offsets , we selected the 39 galaxies in the nicmos udf with published redshifts .",
    "we fitted the sed s of these galaxies with template spectra , using a similar method as the photometric redshift technique described in the next section , but with the redshift fixed to the published spectroscopic redshift .",
    "again , systematic offsets were noted between the templates and the measured sed s .",
    "these offsets were not correlated with wavelength , but were instead correlated with the source of the images .",
    "this indicates that the problem lies not with the templates , but with the photometry .",
    "for example , the difference in image quality between the low - resolution ground - based data and high - resolution space - based data will cause light to be systematically scattered out of an aperture chosen from the space - based image .",
    "rather than delve into the details of the origins of the shifts , we took a pragmatic approach and applied the average shift determined from the 39 galaxies .",
    "the zero - point shifts determined in this manner are small , typically 0.1 magnitudes .",
    "we investigated the completeness limits in terms of total magnitude and peak surface brightness of the photometry .",
    "this was done by adding artificial galaxies at random locations in the image and then re - running sextractor to find what fraction of the galaxies could be recovered . rather than use completely artificial galaxies , several bright",
    ", isolated galaxies were identified in the image .",
    "small image sections ( thumbnails ) around these galaxies were extracted .",
    "the thumbnails were then modified by :    * scaling the flux levels : this consists of multiplying the value of each pixel by a factor .",
    "this changes both the total magnitude and the peak surface brightness simultaneously .",
    "* resampling the images : this means spreading the light from a galaxy over more pixels , or concentrating it into fewer pixels .",
    "it was done with bi - linear interpolation , rather than the more sophisticated lanzcos interpolation used by swarp .",
    "this leaves the total magnitude intact ( as there is no change in flux ) , but changes the peak surface brightness .    by a combination of these two modifications",
    ", one can artifically fade images of galaxies of arbitrary total magnitude and peak surface brightness .",
    "the galaxies were chosen to be sufficiently bright such that the sky noise from the thumbnail after being faded was negligible relative to the sky noise from the image section to which the thumbnail was added .",
    "the 90% completeness limit was found to be @xmath2 magnitudes in total magnitude and @xmath32 magnitudes per arcsecond squared in surface brightness .",
    "the false positive limit was tested by multiplying the original @xmath21-band image by -1 , and running sextractor as before .",
    "all `` objects '' detected this way are obviously not real . at @xmath2 , the false positive rate is just under 8% .",
    "the final catalog contains 796 galaxies down to @xmath2 .",
    "photometric redshifts were calculated for all the objects in the field .",
    "the usual template - fitting , @xmath33 minimization method @xcite was used .",
    "the photometric data for each galaxy are converted into spectral energy distributions ( seds ) .",
    "the magnitude in each bandpass is converted to a flux ( power per unit bandwidth per unit aperture area ) at the central , or effective , wavelength of the bandpass . when the flux is plotted against wavelength for each of the bandpasses , a low resolution",
    "spectral energy distribution is created .",
    "a set of template spectra of all hubble types and redshifts ranging from @xmath34 to @xmath35 is compiled .",
    "the redshifted spectra are reduced to the passband averaged fluxes at the central wavelengths of the passbands , in order to compare the template spectra with the seds of the observed galaxies .",
    "the basis of the template set are the @xcite spectra .",
    "these are supplemented with the sb2 and sb3 spectra from @xcite .",
    "note that this is the same set of spectra used by @xcite .",
    "all these spectra have been extrapolated slightly into the uv .",
    "for the purposes of photometric redshifts , it has been found that the exact nature of this extrapolation is unimportant .",
    "the size of the lyman break imposed on the spectra of high redshift galaxies by the igm makes the exact shape of the underlying galaxy spectrum almost irrelevant . to account for the effects of the igm",
    ", we use the prescription of @xcite . having only a small number of templates",
    "can cause aliasing in photometric redshifts .",
    "therefore , 10 new templates have been created in between each pair of the six original templates .",
    "there are a total of 51 templates .",
    "the spectral energy distribution derived from the observed magnitudes of each object is compared to each template spectrum in turn .",
    "the best matching spectrum , and hence the redshift , is determined by minimizing @xmath33 as defined by the following equation : @xmath36 where @xmath37 is the spectral type , @xmath38 is the redshift , @xmath39 is the number of filters , @xmath40 and @xmath41 are respectively the flux and the uncertainty in the flux in each bandpass of the observed galaxy , @xmath42 is the flux in each bandpass of the template being considered , and @xmath43 is a normalization factor given by : @xmath44    figure [ fig : f1 ] shows a comparison of the photometric redshifts with the 39 published spectroscopic redshifts .",
    "these were taken from the work of @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite as compiled by @xcite .",
    "the filled points show objects with secure redshifts .",
    "the open points show objects where the spectroscopic redshift identification is less secure for one of a number of reasons .",
    "the most common reason is that the `` redshift quality flag '' given in the relevant paper was low ( for example quality=1 or 2 in @xcite ) .",
    "further , both objects from the @xcite paper are identified as quasars or agn . since we do not include such templates in our photometric redshift method , it would be slightly surprising if we could measure accurate photometric redshifts for these objects .",
    "in fact both objects show good agreement , but are indicated with open points anyway .",
    "finally , the position of one of the spectroscopic redshift objects lies directly between two objects which are resolved in the hst images .",
    "these objects are merged in lower resolution images .",
    "taking into account only the objects with secure redshifts , the photometric redshift error is @xmath45 with no catastrophic failures .",
    "taking into account all the objects increases this to @xmath46 , with 2 catastrophic failures for 39 objects .    the resampled images , and the catalog with photometry and photometric redshifts are available on the web at : http://orca.phys.uvic.ca/$\\sim$gwyn/mmm/nicmos.html .",
    "also available at this site are the swarp and sextractor configuration files .",
    "we determined masses for each galaxy with a template fitting process similar to the photometric redshift method described above .",
    "the photometry for each galaxy is converted into an sed and compared to series of templates as before . in this case , the redshift of the templates being considered is held fixed during the @xmath33 minimization .    rather than the empirical @xcite and @xcite",
    "templates , a selection of the pegase 2.0 galaxy spectral evolution models @xcite were used as templates .",
    "the templates were redshifted as before and the igm correction of @xcite was applied .",
    "each of these templates was normalized to @xmath47 .",
    "therefore , the stellar mass of each galaxy is given by : @xmath48 where @xmath43 is the normalization factor for the best fitting template described in equation [ eqn : alphamin ] and @xmath49 is the luminosity distance .",
    "the models span the full range of ages from @xmath50 to 14  gyr .",
    "the metallicity was set to zero ( no metals ) at @xmath50 in the models .",
    "as each model evolves in time , the metallicity evolves self - consistently .",
    "we added extinction to the models using the reddening curve of @xcite .",
    "the amount of extinction was varied from @xmath51 to 1 .",
    "the @xcite initial mass function ( imf ) was used exclusively .",
    "the template spectra are essentially degenerate with respect to the imf .",
    "while the template fitting process will select one template as being the best fit , there are several templates that will be consistent with a given set of photometry and its associated uncertainty .",
    "using equation [ eqn : tmass ] with these alternate templates gives slightly different masses .",
    "the range of template masses that are still consistent with the photometry gives an estimate on the random uncertainty on the mass .",
    "here , we take all templates which match the photometry such that @xmath52 ( where @xmath53 is the reduced @xmath33 of the best fitting template ) to be `` consistent '' .",
    "the mean mass uncertainty was found to be 0.15 dex .",
    "mass uncertainty , not surprisingly , was found to be an increasing function of apparent @xmath21 magnitude .",
    "we adopted @xmath54 for @xmath55 and @xmath56 for @xmath57 .",
    "a potential source of systematic error is the choice of initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "we chose the @xcite imf rather than the @xcite imf that is commonly adopted in galactic evolution studies .",
    "switching to a salpeter imf causes a systematic shift in the masses of -0.12 dex , in the sense @xmath58 dex .",
    "switching to the @xcite imf causes also causes a systematic shift of 0.12 dex , but in the other direction .",
    "there are also uncertainties in the mass which are due to the uncertainties in the redshift .",
    "a photometric redshift that is higher than the true redshift will cause the measured mass to be artificially higher in addition to any random uncertainties from the template fitting .",
    "we deal with these coupled uncertainties in the following section on mass functions .",
    "we used the @xmath59 method to compute mass functions in a series of redshift bins . for each galaxy",
    "we measure the accessible volume , @xmath60 , which is the volume the galaxy _ could _ be in and still be visible in the survey .",
    "the sides of this volume are defined by the edges of the image .",
    "the near face of this volume is the lower end of the redshift bin in question .",
    "the far face of the volume is either the upper end of the redshift bin or @xmath61 , the redshift at which the object would be fainter than the limiting magnitude of the sample , whichever is smaller .",
    "the limiting redshift , @xmath61 , is found by artificially moving the object out in redshift , and recalculating its apparent magnitude , taking into account the change in distance modulus and the @xmath62-corrections , until it reaches the magnitude limit of the survey , in this case @xmath2 .",
    "the @xmath62-corrections were computed by interpolation using the best - fitting template from the photometric redshift procedure .",
    "the next step is to bin the galaxies by mass and sum over the galaxies in each bin , weighting by @xmath59 .",
    "the mass functions are shown in figure [ fig : f2 ] .",
    "the upper row of panels in figure 2 shows the mass functions , @xmath63 , for four redshift slices .",
    "the bottom row of panels shows the mass density function , @xmath64 .",
    "integrating over @xmath64 gives the total stellar mass density .",
    "the bottom row of panels show that while we have fairly good coverage on the parts of the mass function that contribute most to the total mass , we do not cover the full range necessary . to extrapolate beyond the observed range",
    ", we fit @xcite functions to the data points :    @xmath65    where @xmath66 is the overall normalization , @xmath43 is the faint end slope , and @xmath67 is the characteristic mass .",
    "these fits are shown by the lines in figure [ fig : f2 ] .",
    "the fits are well constrained around @xmath67 , well constrained at lower masses ( with the possible exception of the @xmath68 redshift bin ) , and mostly well constrained at the high mass end , with the notable exception of the @xmath69 redshift bin .    to obtain the total mass density",
    ", one must integrate the mass density function .",
    "this has the analytic form : @xmath70 where @xmath71 is the gamma function .",
    "the results of this integration for the four redshift bins are shown as solid points in the top panel of figure [ fig : f3 ] .      before turning to a discussion of figure [ fig : f3 ]",
    "it is necessary to describe the possible uncertainties associated with our measurements .",
    "besides the usual poisson noise , there are three sources of uncertainty . instead of spectroscopic redshifts , we use photometric redshifts which have significantly larger associated errors .",
    "this can shift galaxies out of the correct redshift bin , affect their @xmath60 weighting , and change the measured mass of the galaxy .",
    "next , there is some uncertainty associated with the mass measurement itself , as discussed in section [ ssec : masserr ] .",
    "finally , the coverage of the mass density function is not perfect , which means that the schechter fitting described in the previous section may be insufficiently constrained .",
    "furthermore , when one measures the distribution of a parameter with a non - negligible associated error , systematic effects will be noted , as first discussed by @xcite .",
    "even if the error bars are symmetric , more low mass objects will scatter into the high mass bins than high mass objects will scatter into the low mass bins , simply because there are more low mass objects to be scattered .",
    "this systematic effect can be corrected if one has a good understanding of the error .    to investigate the uncertainties and to make the eddington corrections",
    ", we used a monte carlo technique .",
    "to the original catalog of galaxies we added noise to the measured redshifts ( @xmath72 ) and masses ( @xmath73 for @xmath55 and @xmath56 for @xmath57 ) .",
    "further , we simulated the effects of redshift error on the derived masses by noting the relative shift in luminosity distance caused by the redshift error , and applying the same shift to the mass . from this `` noisy '' catalog we derived mass function , integrated over fitted schechter functions and computed total stellar masses .",
    "the rms of the range of total stellar masses derived after 100 actualizations was used for the error bars in figure [ fig : f3 ] .",
    "the eddington corrections thus calculated were applied to the points .",
    "they were found to be negligible except for the highest mass bin , where they were on the order of 0.2 dex .",
    "the eddington corrections adjust the final masses by about 15% .",
    "figure [ fig : f3 ] shows the build up of stars in galaxies as function of time .",
    "the top panel shows the global stellar mass density , while the bottom panel shows the star formation rate .",
    "the top panel can be thought of as @xmath7 , while the bottom panel can be thought of as its derivative , @xmath74 .",
    "this panel is the reverse of the lilly - madau diagram , with cosmic time instead of redshift on the horizontal axis .",
    "the bottom panel shows a number of measurements of the star formation rate from the literature @xcite .",
    "all the star formation rate data shown in figure [ fig : f3 ] have been corrected for extinction by the authors of the individual papers .",
    "the only exception is the @xcite data which necessitated an extinction correction of 0.8 dex in order to bring it onto the same system as the other data . where appropriate ,",
    "we have also applied incompleteness corrections assuming a schechter extrapolation with @xmath75 .",
    "for example , @xcite only compute the uv luminosity function down to @xmath76 .",
    "extrapolating over the full range of @xmath77 implies a correction of 0.36 dex .",
    "the upper panel shows our measurements of the global mass density as solid points , together with a number of measurements from the literature @xcite as assorted open points .",
    "the authors of the above works have corrected their data for the unobserved portion of the mass function . in their analysis of the gemini deep deep survey ,",
    "@xcite have chosen not to extrapolate beyond what they observe .",
    "the gdds data for galaxies more massive than @xmath78 are plotted as lower limits .",
    "the corrections for the choice of imf , discussed in section [ ssec : masserr ] , have been applied .",
    "the solid line in both panels of figure [ fig : f3 ] come from @xcite , who derived the global star formation history from observations of the local universe .",
    "briefly , the model uses the distribution in metallicity of stars to derive @xmath79 ( where @xmath26 is the metallicity ) and the age - metallicity relationship for globular clusters to derive @xmath80 ( where @xmath37 is the age of the universe ) . combining @xmath79 and @xmath80 ,",
    "one obtains @xmath81 sfr , the star formation rate .",
    "this simple model does a very good job of explaining the star formation history of the universe , as shown by the agreement between it and the observations in the lower panel . using this star formation history as an input to the pegase 2.0 software",
    ", we compute a model global stellar mass density .",
    "the result is plotted in the upper panel .",
    "it is in excellent agreement with our global stellar mass density measurements .",
    "note that this agreement is not dependent on the details of the hartwick model .",
    "almost any description of the star formation history which agrees with the observed star formation rates will , once integrated , produce good agreement with global stellar mass density .",
    "this is illustrated by the dotted line in figure [ fig : f3 ] .",
    "on the lower panel , this shows a crude , three - segment `` connect - the - dots '' description of the star formation history . in the upper panel",
    "the dotted line shows the results of integrating ( again with pegase 2.0 ) this star formation history .",
    "again , there is good agreement with our global stellar mass density calculations .",
    "note that converting a star formation rate to gsmd is a fairly robust procedure .",
    "it is fairly insensitive to the details of the population modelling .",
    "indeed , there is only a slight loss of accuracy even if one makes the extreme assumption that all stars , once created , never die .",
    "this is because ( for all reasonable initial mass functions ) the bulk of the mass in stars comes from stars of less than 1 @xmath82 , which have a main - sequence lifetime of approximately a hubble time . in this simplified case",
    "one can do a straight integration of the @xmath5 ( with @xmath83 at @xmath50 ) to determine @xmath84 .",
    "there are two things to note in the top panel of figure [ fig : f3 ] .",
    "the first is the excellent agreement between our measurements of global stellar mass density and the integral of the star formation rate .",
    "the other is the rather poor agreement between our measurements and those of previous researchers .",
    "the error bars of @xcite overlap with ours , but on the whole there remains a systematic offset",
    ". we can give no explanation for the disagreement between our work and that of other authors .",
    "the offset is not entirely due to our choice of initial mass function .",
    "even if the imf offsets discussed in section [ ssec : masserr ] are not applied there is still a significant difference .",
    "if the other authors are correct , then we need an explanation for the difference between their measurements of the gsmd and the integral of the sfrd .",
    "a number of possibilities have been suggested .",
    "for example , one explanation is a change in the average extinction in galaxies over time ; _",
    "e.g. _ , galaxies have lower extinction at high redshift than is currently thought . if this were the case , the extinction correction would be smaller , and the deduced star formation rate would be lower at high redshift .",
    "less star formation at high redshift means less mass build - up .",
    "alternatively , the initial mass function might vary with redshift in such a way as to reconcile the gsmd and the sfrd .",
    "however , if our measurements are correct , no explanation is required .      from figure",
    "[ fig : f3 ] , we can set limits on the amount of star formation that went on before @xmath85 , our highest redshift point . for the concordance cosmology",
    ", @xmath85 corresponds to a cosmic age of @xmath86 gyr .",
    "we find that the mass in stars at this point was @xmath87 .",
    "if the epoch of galaxy formation lies at @xmath50 , then the average star formation rate density at @xmath88 must have been close to @xmath89 .",
    "this is in good agreement with the results of @xcite .",
    "if , on the other hand , the epoch of galaxy formation was at @xmath35 or @xmath0 , the same mass of stars must have been formed in only 0.9 gyr or 0.4 gyr respectively . then the corresponding star formation rates must be @xmath90 or @xmath91 .",
    "the @xmath0 figure represents a very significant star formation rate density , greater than the currently measured peak of the sfrd at @xmath92 , and completely incompatible with the measurements of @xcite . turning the problem around , if we assume the _ maximal _ star formation rate allowed by the error bars on @xcite at @xmath93 , and the _ minimal _ mass allowed by our highest redshift data point",
    ", we compute the _ latest _ possible epoch of galaxy formation to be @xmath3 .",
    "we have measured the build - up of the stellar mass of galaxies from @xmath94 to @xmath4 .",
    "our measurements are consistent with the predictions from star formation rate density .",
    "the derived evolution of the global stellar mass density of galaxies is consistent with previous star formation rate density measurements over the observed range of redshifts .",
    "our measurements of the global stellar mass density show an offset with respect to previous measurements of the gsmd",
    ". if we are to maintain consistency between the global stellar mass and the observed star formation rate , the epoch of galaxy formation must be at least @xmath3 .",
    "f.d.a.h . gratefully acknowledges financial support from a discovery grant from nserc .",
    "s.d.j.g was supported partially from the above grant and from an nserc cro grant which supports canadian participation in the cfht legacy survey .                                            ,",
    "a. , pozzetti , l. , donnarumma , i. , renzini , a. , cimatti , a. , zamorani , g. , menci , n. , daddi , e. , giallongo , e. , mignoli , m. , perna , c. , salimbeni , s. , saracco , p. , broadhurst , t. , cristiani , s. , dodorico , s. , & gilmozzi , r. 2004 , , 424 , 23    , m. , dickinson , m. , ferguson , h.  c. , ravindranath , s. , kretchmer , c. , moustakas , l.  a. , madau , p. , fall , s.  m. , gardner , j.  p. , livio , m. , papovich , c. , renzini , a. , spinrad , h. , stern , d. , & riess , a. 2004 , , 600 , l103          , j. , appenzeller , i. , gabasch , a. , j \" ager , k. , seitz , s. , bender , r. , b \" ohm , a. , snigula , j. , fricke , k.  j. , hopp , u. , k \" ummel , m. , m \" ollenhoff , c. , szeifert , t. , ziegler , b. , drory , n. , mehlert , d. , moorwood , a. , nicklas , h. , noll , s. , saglia , r.  p. , seifert , w. , stahl , o. , sutorius , e. , & wagner , s.  j. 2003 , , 398 , 49    , d.  h. , serjeant , s. , dunlop , j. , rowan - robinson , m. , blain , a. , mann , r.  g. , ivison , r. , peacock , j. , efstathiou , a. , gear , w. , oliver , s. , lawrence , a. , longair , m. , goldschmidt , p. , & jenness , t. 1998 , nature , 394 , 241          , i. , franx , m. , rudnick , g. , schreiber , n.  m.  f. , rix , h. , moorwood , a. , van dokkum , p.  g. , van der werf , p. , r \" ottgering , h. , van starkenburg , l. , van de wel , a. , kuijken , k. , & daddi , e. 2003 , , 125 , 1107    , o. , vettolani , g. , paltani , s. , tresse , l. , zamorani , g. , le brun , v. , moreau , c. , bottini , d. , maccagni , d. , picat , j.  p. , scaramella , r. , scodeggio , m. , zanichelli , a. , adami , c. , arnouts , s. , bardelli , s. , bolzonella , m. , cappi , a. , charlot , s. , contini , t. , foucaud , s. , franzetti , p. , garilli , b. , gavignaud , i. , guzzo , l. , ilbert , o. , iovino , a. , mccracken , h.  j. , mancini , d. , marano , b. , marinoni , c. , mathez , g. , mazure , a. , meneux , b. , merighi , r. , pell ` o , r. , pollo , a. , pozzetti , l. , radovich , m. , zucca , e. , arnaboldi , m. , bondi , m. , bongiorno , a. , busarello , g. , ciliegi , p. , gregorini , l. , mellier , y. , merluzzi , p. , ripepi , v. , & rizzo , d. 2004 , , 428 , 1043                  , g. , rix , h. , franx , m. , labb ' e , i. , blanton , m. , daddi , e. , f \" orster schreiber , n.  m. , moorwood , a. , r \" ottgering , h. , trujillo , i. , van de wel , a. , van der werf , p. , van dokkum , p.  g. , & van starkenburg , l. 2003 , , 599 , 847        , e.  r. , glazebrook , k. , bunker , a.  j. , abraham , r.  g. , hook , i. , rhoads , j. , mccarthy , p.  j. , boyle , b. , colless , m. , crampton , d. , couch , w. , jrgensen , i. , malhotra , s. , murowinski , r. , roth , k. , savaglio , s. , & tsvetanov , z. 2004 , , 604 , l13      , l. , riess , a.  g. , dahlen , t. , livio , m. , panagia , n. , challis , p. , tonry , j.  l. , filippenko , a.  v. , chornock , r. , ferguson , h. , koekemoer , a. , mobasher , b. , dickinson , m. , giavalisco , m. , casertano , s. , hook , r. , blondin , s. , leibundgut , b. , nonino , m. , rosati , p. , spinrad , h. , steidel , c.  c. , stern , d. , garnavich , p.  m. , matheson , t. , grogin , n. , hornschemeier , a. , kretchmer , c. , laidler , v.  g. , lee , k. , lucas , r. , de mello , d. , moustakas , l.  a. , ravindranath , s. , richardson , m. , & taylor , e. 2004 , , 613 , 200    , g.  p. , bergeron , j. , hasinger , g. , lehmann , i. , kewley , l. , mainieri , v. , nonino , m. , rosati , p. , giacconi , r. , gilli , r. , gilmozzi , r. , norman , c. , romaniello , m. , schreier , e. , tozzi , p. , wang , j.  x. , zheng , w. , & zirm , a. 2004 , , 155 , 271        vanzella , e. , cristiani , s. , dickinson , m. , kuntschner , h. , moustakas , l.  a. , nonino , m. , rosati , p. , stern , d. , cesarsky , c. , ettori , s. , ferguson , h.  c. , fosbury , r. , giavalisco , m. , haase , j. , renzini , a. , rettura , a. , arnouts , p. s. s. c.  s. , & fosbury , r. a.  e. 2005 , preprint [ astro - ph/0406591 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we measure the build - up of the stellar mass of galaxies from @xmath0 to @xmath1 . using 15 band multicolor imaging data in the nicmos ultra deep field we derive photometric redshifts and masses for 796 galaxies down to @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> the derived evolution of the global stellar mass density of galaxies is consistent with previous star formation rate density measurements over the observed range of redshifts </S>",
    "<S> . beyond the observed range , maintaining consistency between the global stellar mass and the observed star formation rate suggests the epoch of galaxy formation was @xmath3 . </S>"
  ]
}