{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery of several extra solar planets and brown dwarf candidates around solar type stars ( e.g. mayor & queloz 1995 , butler & marcy 1996 , cochran & hatzes 1997 , rebolo et al .",
    "1995 , 1996 , basri et al .",
    "1996 ) has advanced our understanding of the formation of planetary systems , but at the same time has also raised new astrophysical problems .",
    "notably , some of these planets are found to orbit very close to the central star ( e.g. mayor et al .",
    "1997 ) and their orbits may be tidally unstable .",
    "for example , rasio et al . ( 1996 ) showed that the orbital decay of 51 peg s companion is inevitable ( although on a long timescale ) , and the authors conclude that the planet will ultimately spiral - in into the star .",
    "furthermore , the engulfing of planets is certainly a possibility when the star evolves to become a giant ( e.g. livio & soker 1984 ) .",
    "the present paper deals specifically with the reaction of a giant star `` swallowing '' a massive planet or a brown dwarf .",
    "this work was also motivated by the fact that the presence of a binary companion ( even of a substellar mass ) has often been invoked to explain the axisymmetrical morphology of elliptical and bipolar planetary nebulae ( pne ) ( e.g. iben & livio 1993 ; soker 1992 , 1996a ; livio 1997 ) .",
    "notably , if the substellar secondary is not too close to the primary , it will interact with the primary only on the upper agb ( e.g. soker 1995 , 1996b ) .",
    "in the course of its evolution , a main sequence star climbs along the red giant branch and eventually ( at a later stage ) can also reach the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) . during the giant evolutionary phases",
    ", a planet may accrete from the wind emitted by the giant or be entirely engulfed by the giant s envelope . depending on the initial orbital separation ,",
    "the planet or brown dwarf may be swallowed during the red giant phase , along the agb , or survive . once inside the envelope , due to viscous friction and also to tidal forces , a fraction of the orbital kinetic energy of the planet is converted into thermal energy and , as a consequence , the binary separation decreases . during this process ,",
    "orbital angular momentum is imparted to the envelope .",
    "the spiraling - in of a planet or a brown dwarf inside the envelope of an agb star has been studied in several papers ( e.g. livio & soker 1984 ; soker , harpaz & livio 1984 ) . using simplifying assumptions ,",
    "these authors were able to follow the evolution of the brown dwarf s mass subject to accretion and mass loss ( evaporation ) .",
    "their model reveals the existence of a critical mass @xmath6 below which the planet is evaporated or collides with the core . for the particular agb star model used",
    ", they found @xmath7 , but these results must be taken with caution since the physical processes involved in these calculations were treated only approximately . on the observational side , the orbital separations between close binary stars seem to indicate that low - mass secondaries tend to have small orbital separations ( e.g. tables 2 and 3 in iben & livio 1993 ) . a crude extrapolation of these data to low - mass stars ( soker 1996b ) suggests that secondaries with masses of @xmath8 will end up at orbital separations of @xmath9 . as we will see in the next section ,",
    "it is likely that at these depths inside giants stars , the secondary will be tidally disrupted or evaporated .",
    "consequently , very low - mass secondaries will probably be accreted onto the agb star s core .    in the present paper",
    "we follow the evolution of an agb star that accretes matter from the destruction of a brown dwarf or a massive planet , using a spherically symmetric stellar evolution code . in the next section ,",
    "we present the initial model for the agb star and the general input physics . in section 3 , we describe the numerical approach and in section 4 we analyze the results of our computations .",
    "the effects of accretion on the nucleosynthesis and surface abundances are presented in section [ nucleo ] and a general discussion ( section [ discuss ] ) and summary follow ( section [ summary ] ) .",
    "to determine the exact location of the accretion process , we require a knowledge of the structure of the agb star and the colliding brown dwarf . where the brown dwarf will disrupt and dissipate can be estimated from the properties of the two objects involved in this scenario . in this section",
    "we thus present our initial model for the agb star and look into the properties of the brown dwarf . with these data at hand",
    ", we will try to characterize the accretion process as well as different quantities associated with this phenomenon .",
    "the initial agb star model ( taken from forestini & charbonnel 1997 ) has an age of @xmath10yr .",
    "its initial radius , mass , effective temperature and luminosity are equal to @xmath11 , @xmath12 ( initially @xmath13 ) , @xmath14k and @xmath15 , respectively .",
    "the star has already undergone 2 thermal pulses and is in the process of relaxing .",
    "the internal structure is composed of a very extended convective envelope which accounts for more than 99% of the radius . below the massive convective zone ( @xmath16 )",
    ", we find a thin radiative shell surrounding the hydrogen burning shell ( hbs ) . in the hbs",
    ", h is mainly burned through the cno cycle . below the hbs",
    "is the intershell where h is exhausted but where the temperature is too low to allow for helium burning . below the intershell , helium is efficiently burned through 3@xmath17 reactions in the so - called helium burning shell ( hebs ) . at the centre of the star , below the hebs , the degenerate core",
    "is composed mainly of @xmath18o and @xmath19c .",
    "the core is highly degenerate and nearly isothermal . in table",
    "[ tab1 ] we summarize the properties of the agb star .",
    "note that the maximum temperature occurs off - centre due to neutrino losses .",
    ".physical properties of the initial agb model [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     a straightforward comparison of the values in tables [ tab1 ] and [ tab2 ] indicates that the brown dwarf s mean density is of the order of the density encountered in the hbs .",
    "it also reveals that brown dwarf radii are of the order of the radius of the hydrogen burning shell .",
    "given the properties of the agb star and the brown dwarf , we can now attempt to determine the locus of the brown dwarf dissipation and the ensuing accretion process .",
    "first , we estimate the virial temperature of the brown dwarf , since this represents the temperature above which the thermal kinetic energy of the star can overwhelm the gravitational binding energy of the brown dwarf .",
    "this is given by @xmath20 such temperatures , of the order of a few millions degrees , are encountered at the base of the convective envelope ( see table [ tab1 ] ) .",
    "therefore , initially relatively massive brown dwarfs ( @xmath21 ) will probably be able to reach the bottom of the convective envelope without being entirely evaporated .",
    "note that we do not expect the trajectory of the spiraling - in brown dwarf to be strongly affected by the convective motions since its keplerian velocity is always supersonic ( see e.g. livio & soker 1984 ) .    as the brown dwarf gets closer to the stellar core ,",
    "tidal effects become important and they can induce strong distortions to the brown dwarf s structure , and eventually they can even lead to a total disruption of the brown dwarf",
    ". the elongation stress at the brown dwarf centre can be approximated by ( e.g. soker et al .",
    "1987 ) @xmath22 @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the mean density of the brown dwarf , @xmath25 and @xmath26 the mass and radius of the star causing the disruption , and @xmath27 is a parameter of order unity .",
    "if we compare this expression with the central pressure of the brown dwarf , then the condition of disruption , @xmath28 , reads @xmath29 @xmath30 from condition ( [ critere ] ) , it is clear that a disruption of the brown dwarf occurs in regions close to the bottom of the convective envelope .",
    "thus , all the indications are that the brown dwarf will be dissipated ( and its material accreted ) near the bottom of the convective layer .    in order to estimate the mean accretion rate onto the agb star s core",
    ", we evaluate the orbital decay rate @xmath31 in the accretion region .",
    "the spiraling - in of the brown dwarf is due to the action of drag forces that result from viscous friction and tidal effects .",
    "this characteristic timescale , which is evaluated in the vicinity of the dissipation zone , provides a rough estimates of the transit timescale of the brown dwarf in this region and the rate at which matter can be deposited there .",
    "the accretion time scale is therefore given approximately by ( see e.g. livio & soker 1984 for a detailed discussion ) @xmath32 where @xmath33 is the density in the envelope at radial distance @xmath34 .",
    "consequently , the expected accretion rate is of the order of @xmath35for a 0.01 brown dwarf .",
    "the previous analysis indicates that a brown dwarf orbiting an agb star can spiral - in to very deep layers inside the star . on the basis of our estimates of the virial temperature and of tidal effects",
    ", we found that the brown dwarf is likely to be dissipated at the base of the convective envelope .",
    "the net outcome of the spiraling - in process is therefore the accretion of a brown dwarf mass at rates in the range of @xmath36 to @xmath37 .",
    "the stellar evolution code used in the present calculations has been previously used for the computation of grids of standard pre - main sequence ( pms ) evolutionary tracks ( forestini 1994 , siess et al .",
    "1997a ) , for the detailed evolution and nucleosynthesis of intermediate mass agb stars ( forestini & charbonnel 1997 ) , and also for the effects of disc accretion onto pms stars ( siess et al . 1997b , 1998 ) .",
    "we refer the reader to these papers for a detailed description of the stellar evolution code .",
    "we computed two sets of models for two different accretion rates , @xmath38 and @xmath36  ( models a and b , respectively ) .",
    "the total accreted mass in cases a and b was 0.01245 and 0.01238 , respectively .",
    "the chemical composition of the accreted matter was assumed to correspond to a solar metallicity ( @xmath39 ) with relative abundances from anders and grevesse ( 1989 ) .",
    "previous works dealing with accretion in different evolutionary phases ( e.g. stahler 1988 , siess et al .",
    "1997b ) have pointed out the important role of deuterium in this process .",
    "indeed , the very fast burning of h through the h(p,@xmath40)he reaction releases a huge amount of energy which is able to modify the structure and evolution of the star significantly .",
    "the presence or absence of deuterium in the accreted matter is thus an important issue which depends essentially on the mass of the brown dwarf .",
    "brown dwarfs ( or planets ) more massive than @xmath41 jupiter masses ( @xmath42 , e.g. burrows et al .",
    "1995 ) have a high enough central temperature to burn deuterium in their interiors .",
    "consequently , we do not expect deuterium to be accreted in the agb star and its initial mass fraction has been set to be @xmath43 .",
    "we also assume that li is preserved in the brown dwarf and its mass fraction ( abundance ) is equal to @xmath44 [ log@xmath45(li)=3.31 ] .      as we discussed in section [ sect ] , a sufficiently massive brown dwarf is able to reach the bottom of the convective envelope .",
    "the deposition of some accreted matter inside the convective envelope , due to partial evaporation , will probably not in itself influence the structure since this region is devoid of energy sources .",
    "the main effects that need to be studied , therefore , are the consequences of mass deposition in the region close to the bottom of the convective zone , where the planet / brown dwarf is expected to disrupt .    to achieve this goal , we have assumed a simplified mass deposition profile in which the mass @xmath46 of the shell @xmath47 is increased at every time step @xmath48 by the amount @xmath49 , where @xmath50 .",
    "the mass is accreted in the region delineated by @xmath51 , where @xmath52 corresponds to the mass coordinate at the top of the hbs .",
    "however , if hot bottom burning is taking place ( see below ) , @xmath52 is equal to the bottom of the convective envelope ( which is inside the hbs ) . with this prescription ,",
    "we allow the accreted matter to go below the convective envelope , but , as we shall see later , a small fraction of the accreted mass ( @xmath53 ) is actually deposited in this region .",
    "the boundary @xmath54 is defined ( arbitrarily ) as the mass coordinate corresponding to a radius equal to 1(@xmath55 ) .",
    "this accounts for the fact that the planet is actually dissipated in the central region of the star .",
    "we also assume that the accreted matter is injected at the local envelope s temperature and density .",
    "this can be justified by the fact that the brown dwarf s kinetic energy is not too different from the specific thermal energy of the agb envelope at the same point ( e.g. harpaz & soker 1994 ) .",
    "+ in the presence of mass accretion , at each evolutionary time - step , the total mass of the star is increased by the amount @xmath56 . in the shells where the mass is deposited ( for @xmath51 ) , the time derivative of a variable @xmath57",
    "is now calculated as @xmath58 where @xmath59 is the velocity of the shell and @xmath60 .",
    "the rate of gravitational energy release , @xmath61 , is given by @xmath62 where @xmath63 is the specific internal energy .",
    "the chemical composition entering the computation at the new time step is modified due to the arrival of fresh , not nuclearly processed material from the accreted matter .",
    "the mass fraction @xmath64 of element @xmath65 at shell @xmath47 after mixing , is given by ( siess et al .",
    "1997b ) @xmath66 where @xmath67 is the stellar mass fraction of element @xmath65 before mixing and @xmath68 is the mass fraction this element in the accreted matter .",
    "note that @xmath68 is constant and does not depend on the mass coordinate .",
    "finally , in order to speed - up the convergence process , we turned off the wind mass loss during the accretion phase and we used grey atmosphere models .",
    "the evolution of the agb star under consideration can be divided into 2 major phases . the first one deals with the onset of accretion and the main accretion phase while the second marks the end of the accretion process and the relaxation of the star .",
    "the deposition of material inside the star releases a significant amount of gravitational energy .",
    "the associated accretion luminosity is given by @xmath69 note that an additional source of energy can arise from the possible replenishment of the nuclearly active region with accreted material .",
    "the modification of the chemical composition of these regions can increase the nuclear energy production .    for high accretion rates ( case a ) ,  represents a large fraction of the stellar luminosity and in the deep region where the energy is deposited , the star expands .",
    "locally , the density , pressure and temperature decrease .",
    "the hbs , which advances in mass , rapidly reaches the `` cooler '' accretion region  where the mass is deposited .",
    "note also that the top of the accretion region is located in the convective envelope . ] and then , the nuclear energy production due to h burning decreases ( see fig .",
    "[ my404_01 ] ) . on the other hand , the luminosity of the hebs increases , since the addition of mass results in an increased gravity and compressional heating . in the expanding accretion region ,",
    "the opacity @xmath70 increases since in this regime it is a decreasing function of the temperature . the increase in both @xmath70 and @xmath71 ( due to ) contributes to a steepening of the radiative gradient ( @xmath72 ) which now becomes greater than the adiabatic gradient , thus convection sets in .",
    "consequently , the convective envelope penetrates rapidly towards deeper regions ( see fig .",
    "[ my404_02 ] ) and reaches the hbs , leading to the so - called hot bottom burning ( hbb ) .    with the onset of hbb , the luminosity of the hbs ( @xmath73 ) rises sharply , as fresh material coming from the convective region",
    "is engulfed in this shell . the global contribution to the total nuclear energy production of the c(p,@xmath40)n reaction",
    "is increased during this phase , and it accounts for 27% ( compared to 22% in a standard evolution ) .",
    "we also note that the n(p,@xmath40)o and n(p,@xmath17)o reactions contribute less to the nuclear energy production than in a standard scheme .",
    "these different features indicate that the cno cycle is reaching a new equilibrium .",
    "the `` flash '' induced by the penetration of the convective envelope into the hbs increases @xmath73 by 4 orders of magnitudes .",
    "the large release of nuclear energy is used to expand the envelope and shortly after the ignition of the hbb , @xmath73 decreases rapidly ( fig .",
    "[ my404_01 ] ) .",
    "thereafter ,  provides most of the luminosity , the hbs almost extinguishes as it moves into the colder accretion region , whereas @xmath74 rises since the mass increases .",
    "figure [ my404_03 ] depicts the profiles of several physical quantities during the early accretion phase .",
    "the peaks in the luminosity profiles indicate that the star is not in thermal equilibrium , but rather energy accumulates in its interior .",
    "one also notices that this feature is smoothed out as time advances , as a result of the star s expansion . in our initial model ( solid line )",
    ", the gravitational energy production @xmath61 represents a small fraction of the stellar energy production , 80% of the luminosity is due to nuclear energy . when the accretion process starts ( dotted line ) , @xmath61 increases rapidly below the accretion region as a result of mass deposition . in the accretion region where @xmath75",
    ", the expansion induces modifications to the temperature profile which is now steeper .",
    "the nuclear energy production is consequently more localized and concentrated to thinner regions .",
    "when hbb starts ( short - dashed line ) , both @xmath61 and @xmath76 reach extremum values .",
    "the luminosity becomes negative , as most of the energy production is used to expand the star .",
    "finally , when the hbb is settled ( long - dashed line ) , the star heats up in the region of nuclear energy production ( @xmath77 ) , whereas expansion proceeds above this zone . during the accretion phase the hbs narrows as the temperature profile becomes steeper ( fig .",
    "[ my404_02 ] ) .",
    "this also accounts for the global decrease of @xmath78 over this period",
    ". finally , since mass is being added , all the structural features ( location of the maximum energy production , burning shells , step in temperature ) move towards higher mass coordinates .    in case b ,",
    "the release of accretion energy is not sufficient to expand the star and trigger convective energy transport down to the hbs .",
    "consequently , a thin radiative layer is maintained below the convective envelope , like in the standard case ( fig .",
    "[ my404_02 ] ) .",
    "this thin layer prevents the energy production of the hbs from heating the envelope directly and , as  is small and the gravitational pull increases , the star contracts . at the beginning of the accretion process",
    ", the release of gravitational energy lowers the temperature in the accretion region ( above the hbs ) .",
    "as the core grows due to mass addition , the hbs moves outwards and rapidly penetrates the less dense and cooler accretion region . as a result ,",
    "the nuclear luminosity due to hydrogen burning ( @xmath73 ) undergoes a sudden drop ( fig .",
    "[ my404_04 ] ) .",
    "the star compensates for this decrease in energy production by a small contraction .",
    "thereafter , the star tries to find an equilibrium configuration in which @xmath78 and  account for the total luminosity .",
    "this phase of structural readjustment leads to a small expansion .",
    "thermal equilibrium is finally achieved after @xmath79yr , which corresponds to the stellar kelvin helmholtz timescale @xmath80 subsequently , contraction resumes and the nuclear luminosity stays at an almost constant value , somewhat lower than in the standard case ( without accretion ) , due to the presence of . however , the increase in mass speeds - up the contraction rate in the central region and the luminosity of the hebs rises . +    the main difference between case b and the standard evolution is the persistence of stellar contraction , not only in the core but throughout the entire structure during most of the accretion phase . for low accretion rates , it is mainly the mechanical effects of mass deposition and gravitational attraction that prevail . for a comparison with the high accretion rate case , we present in fig .",
    "[ my404_05 ] the profiles of several physical variables during this period .    as can be seen",
    ", @xmath61 remains largely positive in the accretion region : contraction heats the central parts of the star .",
    "the profiles of @xmath81 , @xmath76 and @xmath71 are very similar during the entire phase .",
    "we do not obtain a significant increase in the steepness of the temperature gradient nor a peak in the luminosity profile .",
    "the different quantities are simply shifted to higher mass coordinates very smoothly . in this case",
    ", accretion does not lead to significant structural changes , the energetic effects of accretion ( ) being too weak .      for high accretion rates ( fig .",
    "[ my404_01 ] ) , the sudden suppression of accretion energy deposition initiates a rapid contraction of the star , as the envelope can no longer be supported .",
    "the release of gravitational energy increases the temperature in the regions of energy production and induces an enhancement of the nuclear luminosities .",
    "the star globally heats up , the opacity drops , and the convective envelope recedes towards the surface ( fig .",
    "[ my404_02 ] ) .",
    "the cessation of the accretion process thus marks the end of hbb and this leads to the formation a thin radiative layer between the convective zone and the hbs .",
    "the contraction proceeds as long as the energy losses from the surface are not equilibrated by the gain from gravitational and nuclear energy sources .",
    "the return to equilibrium is finally achieved after @xmath82yr , when the stellar radius and luminosity have decreased by a factor of @xmath83 ( fig .",
    "[ my404_06 ] ) . at this point ,",
    "the nuclear luminosity provides more than 90% of the stellar luminosity and it is sufficient to support the envelope . as most of the nuclear energy is produced by the hbs , the energetic influence of the hebs is shielded and its luminosity ( @xmath74 ) decreases ( as in the standard case ) . finally , as the core mass @xmath84 grows , the temperature inside the hebs increases and the nuclear reactions ( which are very temperature sensitive ) runaway and trigger a thermal instability .",
    "note that in case a , the thermal pulse is delayed with respect to the standard model .",
    "this is due to the large expansion that occurs during the accretion phase , which in turn slows down the `` natural '' temperature increase of the hebs substantially .    in case b , when the accretion process stops , the star undergoes a short phase of rapid contraction with the disappearance of .",
    "the temperature in the hbs increases and the nuclear luminosity rises ( fig .",
    "[ my404_06 ] ) .",
    "for a short period of time the star expands .",
    "finally , when an equilibrium configuration is reached , which accounts for the missing , the star resumes contraction and @xmath74 keeps rising .",
    "the tendency of increasing @xmath74 is due to the fact that for low accretion rates the impact of accretion is more a consequence of the mechanical effects resulting from mass deposition ( compressional heating ) , rather than energetic effects due to  or hbb .",
    "note in addition that the accretion rate used in this study is larger that the `` normal '' core growth rate ( @xmath85 , for a 3 star ) .",
    "therefore , accretion forces the star to evolve more rapidly than in a standard evolution and the thermal pulse occurs earlier .",
    "however , the thermal instability is weaker in the star accreting the brown dwarf than in the standard model : the maximum of @xmath74 is more than an order of magnitude lower than in the conventional computation .",
    "the reason for this difference is the fact that due to the mass deposition , the hebs moves towards regions of a lower density faster than in the standard scheme , and the nuclear energy generation is thus reduced .",
    "if a high accretion rate ( @xmath2 ) is sustained for a longer period of time , the release of gravitational energy maintains the envelope expansion .",
    "after @xmath86yr , the kelvin helmholtz timescale has decreased to @xmath87yr and accretion energy can now be efficiently radiated away . at that time , the nuclear energy production is at a minimum and the hbs is almost extinguished ( fig .",
    "[ my404_07 ] ) .",
    "the luminosity profile is now monotonicly increasing and contraction resumes . when the accretion process ends ( for an accreted mass @xmath88 in this simulation )",
    ", the contraction rate accelerates as the envelope is no longer supported by the deposition of accretion energy . the temperature increases and @xmath74 rises first , followed by @xmath73 . when the nuclear sources provide @xmath89% of the stellar luminosity the contraction stops .",
    "the radius is then minimal and its value is smaller than in case a , because in this simulation , the stellar mass and thus the gravitational pull are larger .",
    "finally , as the temperature increases the thermal instability sets in , but somewhat later than in case a.    for lower accretion rates ( @xmath90 ) , the persistent addition of mass , up to @xmath91 , increases the contraction rate .",
    "the star heats up faster and the thermal instability develops even earlier than in case b ( fig . [ my404_08 ] ) . for the reasons",
    "explained previously ( see section [ sect1 ] ) , the value of @xmath74 during the pulse is lower than in the standard case .",
    "we also note that accretion does not perturb the thermal pulse , which indicates that in this case this process represents a small perturbation to the stellar structure . when the instability is over , the star resumes contraction .",
    "the nuclear luminosity ( @xmath78 ) is lower than in the standard model because a fraction of the energy is provided by the accretion process .",
    "finally , when accretion ends , the star relaxes and returns to a standard evolution ( with a larger mass however ) .    to summarize these simulations , for high accretion rates the accretion luminosity dominates the stellar energetics , reducing the nuclear energy production of the hbs . as a result , the ( nuclear ) evolution of the star",
    "is slowed down . for lower accretion rates",
    "( but still high compared to the normal core growth rate ) , accretion shifts the internal structure to that corresponding to higher masses at a faster rate than in a standard evolution , and consequently the evolution is accelerated .",
    "however , these results do not imply that for some intermediate value of the evolution of the star remains unchanged .",
    "indeed , the stellar mass increases and the core s growth rate remains always higher than in a standard evolution . in the limiting case where the release of accretion energy exactly counterbalances the gravitational attraction , instantaneously the evolution of the star would remain the same . however this situation is unstable since @xmath84 increases .",
    "quite rapidly the gravitational pull takes over and the contraction resumes .",
    "note that for large accretion rates when the accretion process is maintained for a longer period of time , contraction finally resumes once thermal equilibrium is reached .",
    "chemical modifications resulting from mass accretion are expected if either a substantial amount of accreted matter is deposited in the envelope or / and if nuclear burning is operating in the convective envelope . to separate these two effects ,",
    "we define new variables @xmath92 and @xmath93 for each chemical element @xmath65 by @xmath94 where @xmath95 is the mass fraction of element @xmath65 in an evolutionary scheme with accretion and @xmath96 is the mass fraction of this element in standard computations .",
    "@xmath97 represents the ratio of the total mass deposited in the envelope during the accretion process ( @xmath98 ) to the mass of this region ( @xmath99 ) .",
    "the variable @xmath92 describes the effect of accretion on the surface abundances , including mass deposition and nuclear burning .",
    "the variable @xmath93 represents the nuclear activity : it gives the ratio of the mass fraction computed in our models with accretion to the mass fraction expected from calculations with accretion if no nuclear burning took place .",
    "therefore , if the element is nuclearly produced then @xmath100 and if it is destroyed @xmath101 .",
    "the deposition of fresh , nuclearly unaltered material in the convective envelope entails modifications of the surface chemical abundances .",
    "this effect accounts for the large values of @xmath92 attached to light elements such as li , li , be , b or b ( fig .",
    "[ my404_09 ] ) .",
    "indeed , due to their low burning temperature , these elements were previously burned during the pre - main sequence phase or during the first dredge up .",
    "depending on the mass added to the envelope , the abundances of these elements can be increased by a factor of @xmath102 ( @xmath103 dex ) .",
    "the more mass is accreted , the higher the ratio @xmath92 is",
    ". however , the detection of these chemical changes may be difficult if the accreted mass is small .",
    "for example , the li mass abundance in cases a and b ( @xmath104 ) reaches values of log@xmath45(li)=1.54 and log@xmath45(li)=1.51 respectively , which are very close to the log@xmath45(li)=1.40 standard value .",
    "it is interesting to note that the accretion of planetary material in the envelope of red giant stars was originally suggested by alexander ( 1967 ) to explain the high li abundance observed in some red giants .",
    "brown et al . ( 1989 ) showed that a sufficient mass of terrestrial - like planets ( which have lost their initial h and he content ) may replenish the envelope of giants sufficiently to the reproduce high observed li abundances .",
    "note , finally , that the surface abundances of heavier elements , with @xmath105 , are close to their initial values and are thus not modified by the accretion process .",
    "the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ my404_09 ] indicates which elements undergo efficient nuclear reactions .",
    "the light elements are the principal target of nuclear burning .",
    "indeed the `` low '' temperature at the base of the convective region , between @xmath106 and @xmath107k ( depending on the presence or the absence of hbb ) , allows the destruction of these species .",
    "the nuclear burning acts preferentially on li , li and be .",
    "we can also detect the effects of cno reactions in the envelope through the production of c , n and o and the depletion of c. however , the influence of h burning through the cno cycle is very small and it only appears if accretion is maintained for a sufficiently long period of time ( dotted line , dashed line in fig .",
    "[ my404_09 ] ) .    to summarize , the temperature at the base of the convective envelope ( @xmath108k ) is too low to give rise to a rich nucleosynthesis .",
    "the main chemical changes thus result from the deposition of fresh material in the convective envelope .",
    "our computations involved a relatively young agb star ( at the beginning of the thermally pulsing phase ) and one may wonder what would be the effects of brown dwarf accretion inside more evolved stars . in this respect",
    "we note , that as the evolution progresses , the core grows but the temperature at the base of the convective zone remains almost constant , close to @xmath109k .",
    "thus , the location of the accretion process may remain unchanged .",
    "however , in older agb stars the stellar luminosity is substantially higher and this will most certainly result in a different stellar response to high accretion rates . indeed , as we have seen in the present work , the main reason for the stellar expansion is the release of a large amount of accretion energy ( @xmath110 ) .",
    "we thus expect that if mass is injected in more luminous agb stars , then the stellar radius and luminosity will decrease during the process , as in case b ( see also harpaz & soker 1994 ) .",
    "our calculations revealed that for high mass injection rates ( @xmath38 ) the radius and luminosity of the star increase by a factor of @xmath83 .",
    "this leads to a substantial increase in the mass loss rate , since according to the reimers formula ( 1975 ) @xmath111 .",
    "the ejected mass can be estimated as @xmath112 where @xmath113 is the duration of the accretion process .",
    "we can therefore expect the formation of shells , corresponding to individual accretion events .",
    "the mass of these shells is of the order of @xmath114 .",
    "a phenomenon not directly addressed by our spherically symmetric calculations is that of the deposition of angular momentum into the giant s envelope , by the accreted brown dwarf .",
    "we can however estimate the effects of such a deposition as follows .",
    "if we assume that the secondary deposits all of its orbital angular momentum in the envelope , and we further assume that the envelope rotates rigidly ( due to the fact that it is convective , and thus viscous ) then the ratio of the envelope angular velocity @xmath115 to the critical velocity ( surface keplerian angular velocity ) @xmath116 is given by @xmath117 where @xmath118 is the initial orbital radius of the brown dwarf .",
    "here we calculated the moment of inertia of the envelope for our model , and it is given by @xmath119 , where @xmath120 . as we can see , eq .",
    "[ omega ] indicates that for typical brown dwarf masses , the agb star can be spun - up to a significant fraction of the critical velocity .",
    "notably , the accretion of angular momentum is required to explain the abnormally high rotational velocities of fk comae stars ( e.g. rucinski 1990 , welty & ramsey 1994 ) and of peculiar agb stars such as v hydrae ( barnbaum et al .",
    "finally , this can also have important consequences for the shaping of planetary nebulae ( see e.g. soker 1996a ) .",
    "in particular , it has been suggested that the spin - up of the envelope is responsible for the high fraction of non - spherical planetary nebulae ( see livio 1997 for a review ) .    concerning peculiar abundances , the discovery of lithium rich g and k giant stars ( e.g. wallerstein & sneden 1982 , brown et al .",
    "1989 , de la reza & da silva 1995 ) posed the problem of the origin of this element in these stars .",
    "indeed , standard stellar evolution predicts that li should be depleted during the pre - main sequence phase or during the first dredge up .",
    "several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the high li abundance , these include : ( 1 ) li production ( cameron & fowler 1971 ) , ( 2 ) the retainment of the original lithium , ( 3 ) the external enrichment by novae ( e.g. gratton & dantona 1989 ) , ( 4 ) the engulfing of a planet ( e.g. brown et al . 1989 ) .",
    "recently , de la reza et al . ( 1996 , 1997 ) pointed out that almost all the li k giants are optical counterparts of iras sources , the far ir excesses being attributed to the presence of a dusty circumstellar shell ( cs ) .",
    "based on this apparent correlation between the ir and li excesses , these authors proposed a scenario in which all the k giants with masses between 1.0 and 2.5 become li rich after the first dredge - up .",
    "they assume that the mechanism responsible for the li enrichment is accompanied by a sudden mass loss which leads to the formation of a cs .",
    "the li which has not been ejected remains in the stellar surface and is depleted later when the mass loss stops . in this scenario ,",
    "the cs expands , cools down , disappears and the li surface abundance reaches again standard values .",
    "this evolutionary path , or `` li path '' , can reasonably explain the li abundance distribution of k giant stars in a colour - colour diagram .",
    "its duration is of the order of @xmath121yr and it requires that li suddenly appear at the surface of the star and then be depleted on a timescale of @xmath122yr .",
    "however , de la reza et al .",
    "do not provide convincing mechanisms for li enrichment and mass loss .",
    "they invoke an extra mixing process for li production , the `` cool bottom processing '' ( wasserburg , boothroyd & sackmann 1995 ) , but they remain vague concerning the generation of mass loss . we propose here that the accretion of a planet or a brown dwarf by a giant star could effectively explain all of these features . indeed ,",
    "our calculations show that the accretion process ( 1 ) can increase the mass loss rate and lead to the ejection of a shell ( eq . [ shell ] ) , and ( 2 ) can enrich the envelope with lithium ( fig .",
    "[ my404_09 ] ) , in agreement with observations .    observations also show that lithium rich giants have generally normal rotational velocities [ de medeiros et al .",
    "1996 ; although some rapid rotators exist , e.g. 1e 1751 + 7046 ( ambruster et al .",
    "this implies that if the accretion of a planet / brown dwarf is responsible for the li enhancement , some fraction of the orbital angular momentum which is deposited into the envelope has to be removed ( or that in most cases of engulfed planets @xmath123 , see eq .",
    "[ omega ] ) . this can be achieved by efficient magnetic braking , since the giants develop a deep convective envelope ( e.g. leonard & livio 1995 ) .",
    "we should note that the paucity of giants showing both rapid rotation and high li abundance probably indicates that the timescale for rotational braking is short compared to the giant evolutionary phase ( a few @xmath107yr ) .",
    "the existence of very rich li stars ( e.g. gregorio - hetem et al .",
    "1992 , torres et al .",
    "1995 , de la reza & da silva 1995 , fekel et al .",
    "1996 ) poses a somewhat more difficult challenge .",
    "one could imagine , however , that the collision of the planet ( or a brown dwarf ) with the star s core may trigger the `` cool bottom processing '' ( wasserburg , boothroyd & sackmann 1995 ) . in this scenario ,",
    "be - rich material can be dredged - up from the deep interior to the convective envelope where it decays through the be(@xmath124)li reaction .",
    "a comment should be added about statistics . from a sample of 644 stars ,",
    "brown et al . (",
    "1989 ) found that @xmath125% of g and k giants have li abundances above @xmath126 and that an additional 4% have abundances between 1.2 and 1.3 .",
    "considering the fact that many of the li rich stars show an ir excess compatible with the presence of a surrounding shell , it is tempting to interpret these observations as a signature of an accretion event .",
    "this could indicate that @xmath127% of all stars have low - mass ( possibly substellar ) companions .",
    "these statistics are fully compatible with those inferred from pne nuclei ( e.g. yungelson , tutukov & livio 1993 ) .",
    "we have presented computations in which a brown dwarf ( or a planet ) is accreted in the core of an agb star .",
    "this situation results when the brown dwarf is engulfed in the stellar envelope as the latter is expanding due to stellar evolution .",
    "viscous friction as well as tidal effects generate a drag force that makes the brown dwarf spiral in .",
    "we have shown that the region where the brown dwarf is expected to disrupt is close to the base of the convective envelope .",
    "we investigated the response of the star to the accretion of a small body for two accretion rates , @xmath37 and @xmath36 .",
    "our simulations show that for the higher accretion rate , the main energetic effects come from the release of potential energy .",
    "the accretion luminosity is of the order of the stellar luminosity and this additional energy source makes the star expand .",
    "another interesting feature of these computations ( involving a high accretion rate ) is the appearance of hot bottom burning .",
    "however , the relatively low temperature at the base of the convective envelope ( @xmath128k ) and the short duration of the accretion phase do not allow for a rich nucleosynthesis in the convective zone .",
    "we find that accretion delays the development of the thermal instability .",
    "the nuclear energy production due to the h and he burning shells is smaller than in a standard case because a part of the energy is provided by the deposition of the accretion energy .",
    "hydrogen and helium are consequently burned more slowly and the evolution is slowed down .    for the lower accretion rate",
    "the evolution is different . in this case",
    "the accretion luminosity represents a small fraction of the stellar luminosity and therefore expansion does not ensue .",
    "conversely , the addition of mass increases the gravitational pull and the star contracts even more efficiently than in a standard scheme .",
    "the temperature of the nuclear burning shells increases more rapidly and the thermal instability occurs earlier than in conventional evolution .",
    "the global stellar evolution is accelerated .    except for variations in the luminosity and radius ,",
    "both of which can be increased by a factor of @xmath83 , the effects of mass accretion in an evolved star may be traced by changes in the surface chemical abundances .",
    "we showed that such changes are mainly the result of material deposition rather than nucleosynthesis .",
    "the chemical changes affect mainly light elements such as li and be whose mass fraction can be increased by a factor of 2 - 8 , depending on the accretion rate and duration of the accretion process .",
    "generally , the observational signatures of the accretion of a brown dwarf or a planet by giant stars can be ( depending on the physical parameters involved ) : @xmath129 the formation of a circumstellar shell , @xmath130 the enhancement of the surface li abundance , @xmath131 rapid rotation .",
    "we propose that the ir excesses and high li abundances observed in @xmath127% of the g and k giants originate from the accretion of massive planets / brown dwarfs / very low - mass stars .",
    "finally , we should note that we also made several attempts to accrete matter deeper inside the star ( e.g. below the hbs ) .",
    "however , such a process could not be followed reliably with our code .",
    "the deposition of protons in the very central regions increases the nuclear energy production to such rates , that the envelope can not absorb this energy excess .",
    "ls wishes to thank manuel forestini for invaluable discussions and also for kindly providing us with the initial stellar model .",
    "ls acknowledges support from the french ministry of foreign affairs ( bourse lavoisier ) and thanks the stsci for its hospitality . this work has been supported in part by nasa grants nagw-2678 , g005.52200 and g005.44000 , and the director s discretionary research fond at stsci .",
    "the computations presented in this paper were performed at the `` centre intensif de calcul de lobservatoire de grenoble '' .",
    "99 alexander j.b . , 1967 , observatory , 87 , 238 ambruster c.w . , fekel f.c .",
    ", guinan e.f . , hrivnak b.j . , 1997 , apj , 479 , 960 anders e. , grevesse n. , 1989 , geochim .",
    "acta , 53 , 197 basri g. , marcy g.w . , graham j.r . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 458 , 600 barnbaum c. , morris m. , kahane c. , 1995 , apj , 450 , 862 burrows a. , hubbard w.b . , saumon d. , lumine j.i . , 1993 , apj , 406 , 158 burrows a. , saumon d. , guillot t. , hubbard w.b . , lumine j.i . , 1995 , nature , 375 , 299 butler r.p . , marcy g.w . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 464 , l153 brown j.a .",
    ", sneden c. , lambert d.l .",
    ", dutchover e.jr . , 1989 , apjs , 71 , 293 cameron a.g.w . , fowler w.a . , 1971 ,",
    "apj , 164 , 11 cochran w.d . ,",
    "hatzes a. , marcy g.w .",
    ", butler r.p . , 1997 , apj , 483 , 457 de la reza r. , da silva l. , 1995 , apj , 439 , 917 de la reza r. , drake n.a . , da silva l. , 1996 , apj , 456 , l115 de la reza r. , drake n.a . , da silva l. , torres c.a.o . , martin e.l . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 482 , l77 de medeiros j.r . ,",
    "melo c.h.f . , mayor m. , 1996 , a&a , 309 , 465 fekel f.c . ,",
    "webb r.a . , white r.j .",
    ", zuckerman b. , 1996 , apj , l95 forestini m. , 1994 , a&a , 285 , 473 forestini m. , charbonnel c. , 1997 , a&as , 123 , 241 gratton r.g . , dantona f. , 1989 , a&a , 215 , 66 gregorio - hetem j. , lepine j.r.d .",
    ", quast g.r . , torres c.a.o . ,",
    "de la reza r. , 1992 , aj , 103 , 549 harpaz a. , soker n. , 1994 , mnras , 270 , 734 iben i.jr . , livio m. , 1993 , pasp , 105 , 1373 leonard p.t.j . , livio m. , 1995 , apj , 447 , l21 livio m. , 1997 , space sci .",
    ", in press livio m. , soker n. , 1984 , mnras , 208 , 763 mayor m. , queloz d. , 1995 , nature , 378 , 355 mayor m. , queloz d. , udry s. , halbwachs j .-",
    "l . , 1997 , in `` astronomical and biochemical origins and the search for life in the universe '' , proceedings of the 5th international conference on bioastronomy , iau coll .",
    "161 , ed c. cosmovici , s. bowyer , d. werthimer , p313 rasio f.a .",
    ", tout c.a .",
    ", lubow s.h . ,",
    "livio m. , 1996 , apj , 470 , 1187 rebolo r. , martin e.l .",
    ", basri g. , marcy g. , zapatero - osorio m.r . , 1996 , apj , 469 , l53 rebolo r. , zapatero - osorio m.r . , martin e.l . ,",
    "nature , 1995 , 377 , 129 reimers d. , 1975 , men .",
    "lige , 6th ser . 8 , 369 rucinski s.m . , 1990 , pasp , 102 , 306 siess l. , forestini m. , dougados c. , 1997a , a&a , 324 , 556 siess l. , forestini m. , bertout c. , 1997b , a&a , 326 , 1001 siess l. , forestini m. , bertout c. , 1998 , a&a , in press soker n. , 1992 , apj , 389 , 628 soker n. , 1995 , mnras , 274 , 147 soker n. , 1996a , apj , 460 , l53 soker n. , 1996b , apj , 468 , 774 soker n. , harpaz a. , livio m. , 1984 , mnras , 210 , 189 soker n. , regev o. , livio m. , shara m.m .",
    ", 1987 , apj , 318 , 760 stahler s.w . , 1988 ,",
    "apj , 332 , 804 stevenson d.j . , 1991 , araa , 29 , 163 torres c.a.o .",
    ", quast g.r . , de la reza r. , gregorio - hetem j. , lepine j.d . , 1995 ,",
    "aj , 109 , 2146 wallerstein g. , sneden c. , 1982 , apj , 225 , 577 wasserburg g.j . , boothroyd a.i . ,",
    "sackmann i.j . , 1995 ,",
    "apj , 447 , l37 welty a.d . ,",
    "ramsey l.w . , 1994 , apj , 435 , 848 yungelson l.r . ,",
    "tutukov a.v . , livio m. , 1993 , apj , 418 , 794 zapolsky h.s . , salpeter e.e . , 1969 ,",
    "apj , 158 , 809"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the response of the structure of an asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) star to the accretion of a brown dwarf or planet in its interior . in particular , we examine the case in which the brown dwarf spirals - in , and the accreted matter is deposited at the base of the convective envelope and in the thin radiative shell surrounding the hydrogen burning shell . in our spherically symmetric simulations , </S>",
    "<S> we explore the effects of different accretion rates and we follow two scenarios in which the amounts of injected mass are equal to @xmath0 and @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the calculations show that for high accretion rates ( @xmath2 ) , the considerable release of accretion energy produces a substantial expansion of the star and gives rise to hot bottom burning at the base of the convective envelope . for somewhat lower accretion rates ( @xmath3 ) , </S>",
    "<S> the accretion luminosity represents only a small fraction of the stellar luminosity , and as a result of the increase in mass ( and concomitantly of the gravitational force ) , the star contracts . </S>",
    "<S> our simulations also indicate that the triggering of thermal pulses is delayed ( accelerated ) if mass is injected at a slower ( faster ) rate . </S>",
    "<S> we analyze the effects of this accretion process on the surface chemical abundances and show that chemical modifications are mainly the result of deposition of fresh material rather than of active nucleosynthesis . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we suggest that the accretion of brown dwarfs and planets can induce the ejection of shells around giant stars , increase their surface lithium abundance and lead to significant spin - up . the combination of these features is frequently observed among g and k giant stars .    -1 cm 2@xmath4h # 1@xmath5    accretion  planetary systems  stars : agb and post - agb  stars : evolution  stars : low - mass , brown dwarfs  stars : abundances </S>"
  ]
}