{
  "article_text": [
    "measuring the dark matter halos of elliptical galaxies is a difficult task . unlike disk galaxies , there are few dynamical tracers in ellipticals that can be observed over large ranges in distance .",
    "stellar absorption features and emission line gas disks can not be used much beyond two effective radii ( @xmath0 ) , and although x - ray mass determinations can be invaluable at large radii , currently x - ray observations can not reach the centers of ellipticals , due to instrumental resolution , and potential complications due to cooling flows .",
    "planetary nebulae ( pn ) are objects that are extremely well suited to bridge the gap between inner and outer dynamical methods .",
    "individual pn can be easily detected at several @xmath0 with 4-m class telescopes out to distances of @xmath1  mpc . , and",
    "samples already exist for over twenty elliptical galaxies .",
    "since pn emit a large fraction ( @xmath2 ) of their flux in a single narrow emission line at 5007   , their velocities can be determined with a short duration spectrum at moderate , @xmath3 resolution",
    ". finally , pn are excellent distance indicators ( for a review , see jacoby 1996a ) , through the planetary nebulae luminosity function distance method ( pnlf ) , which allows the true physical scale of the system to be determined .",
    "there have been a handful of detailed dynamical studies of elliptical galaxies out to several @xmath0 , using pn ( for a current review , see arnaboldi & freeman 1997 ) .",
    "however , with the notable exception of ngc  5128 ( hui 1995 ) , these studies suffer from relatively poor statistics ; typically , the samples observed to date are less than a hundred objects . without more data , it is impossible to explore multi - component dynamical models of halos : the only analysis possible is to assume simple models and test for consistency .",
    "clearly , this could lead to erroneous results .",
    "for example , if elliptical galaxies are formed via encounters between galaxies , then box or tube orbits along the galaxy s major or minor axis may be the rule , and most of the system s angular momentum ( and possibly mass ) may reside far in the halo ( barnes 1988 , 1992 ) . if this is the case , then the stellar distribution function will be extremely anisotropic and the mass - to - light ratio will change with radius . to investigate these possibilities , several hundred test particle velocities ( merrifield & kent 1990 ; merritt & saha 1993 ) are needed .    to rectify this limitation ,",
    "we re - observed the giant elliptical galaxy m87 with a wide field ( @xmath4 ) ccd camera on the kitt peak 4-m telescope .",
    "this survey yielded a total of 337 pn candidates for use in a dynamical study .",
    "figure  2 ( left ) plots the planetary nebula luminosity function for a statistical sample of m87 s pn . from these data ,",
    "the pnlf distance to the galaxy can normally be derived by convolving the empirical model for the pnlf given by ciardullo ( 1989 ) : @xmath5\\ ] ] with the photometric error function and fitting the data to the resultant curve via the method of maximum likelihood . however , in the case of m87 , the most likely empirical curve ( the solid line ) is a poor fit to the luminosity function .",
    "kolmogorov - smirnov and @xmath6 tests both exclude the ciardullo law at the 99.9% confidence interval .",
    "this is a remarkable result : none of the pnlfs from any of the @xmath7 previously studied galaxies differs significantly from the empirical law .",
    "moreover , the large number of pn detected in this survey can not be invoked to explain the discrepancy .",
    "the luminosity functions of m31 , m81 , ngc  5128 , and ngc  4494 all contain similar numbers of objects .",
    "the planetaries surrounding m87 are therefore unique in some way .",
    "an even more surprising result comes if we divide our pn sample in two , and compare the pnlfs of m87 s inner and outer halo ( first noted in jacoby , 1996a ) . for the inner sample ,",
    "we take all the pn in our statistical sample with isophotal radii between @xmath8 and @xmath9 ; for the outer sample , we take those pn with @xmath10 .",
    "both samples are plotted in figure  2 ( right ) .",
    "of the 20 brightest pn , 18 belong to the outer sample . more importantly ,",
    "the shapes of the two pnlfs appear different : a kolmogorov - smirnov test reveals that the two samples are different at the 92% confidence level .",
    "again , this result is unique .",
    "explicit tests for changes in the pnlf cutoff with galactocentric radius have been performed with the large samples of pn available in ngc  5128 and ngc  4494 . in neither case was a gradient observed .",
    "internal and external tests on the @xmath7 early and late - type galaxies surveyed to date have shown that the location of the pnlf cutoff does not depend on the properties of the parent stellar population ( cf .",
    "jacoby 1996b ) .",
    "however , a number of mechanisms do exist which can , at least in theory , cause the pnlf technique to fail and produce a change in the observed value of @xmath11 .",
    "the first , and simplest , is to hypothesize that some instrumental effect exists , such as a radial gradient in the flatfield or the transmission curve of the filter .",
    "we have run a number of tests , and have ruled out an instrumental effect in our data .",
    "a second possibility is to invoke non - uniform extinction in m87 .",
    "dust has been detected in the central regions of many elliptical galaxies ( ebneter , djorgovski , & davis 1988 ) , and it is possible in principle that dust might cause the difference between our inner and outer samples .",
    "however , studies of dust have concentrated on the central regions of elliptical galaxies , while our survey deals exclusively with pn that are more than 1.5 @xmath12 from the galactic nucleus . moreover",
    ", even if there is a strong gradient in the dust distribution , this still may not translate into an observed gradient in @xmath11 .",
    "as feldmeier , ciardullo , & jacoby ( 1997 ) have shown , the location of a galaxy s pnlf cutoff is relatively insensitive to the presence of dust , as long as the scale length for the obscuration is smaller than that of the stars .",
    "this makes it very unlikely that dust is responsible for the change in @xmath11 .",
    "although the absolute magnitude of the pnlf cutoff is extremely insensitive to the details of the underlying stellar population , a dramatic change in the metallicity or age of m87 s halo stars could , in principle , produce a change in @xmath11 similar to that observed .",
    "both observations and theory suggest that galaxies with [ o / h ] @xmath13 can have a pnlf cutoff that is different from that of metal - rich populations by @xmath14  mag . unfortunately , this effect acts in the wrong direction : it is the metal - poor systems that have fainter values of @xmath15 . in order to explain the observed gradient ,",
    "the center of m87 would have to be metal - poor , and the halo would need to be metal - rich .",
    "observations show that this is extremely unlikely ( kormendy & djorgovski 1989 ) .    similarly , it is difficult to use population age to explain pnlf variations . according to the models of dopita , jacoby , & vassiliadis ( 1992 ) and mndez ( 1993 ) ,",
    "the location of the pnlf cutoff is nearly independent of age for populations between 3 and 12  gyr .",
    "if these models are correct , then in order to enhance the luminosity of the pnlf cutoff in m87 s outer halo , one must hypothesize an unrealistically young age for the stars , @xmath16  gyr .",
    "the best hope for explaining the observed changes in m87 s halo pnlf lies in the virgo cluster itself .",
    "all of the above explanations implicitly assume that the pn projected onto m87 s outer halo are at the same distance as those pn which are members of the inner sample",
    ". however , if the virgo cluster has a substantial population of intracluster stars , this will not be the case , as some objects will be superposed in the foreground , and others will be in the background .",
    "for example , if the virgo cluster is at a distance of @xmath17  mpc , then the central @xmath18 core of the cluster ( de vaucouleurs 1961 ) , has a linear extent of @xmath19  mpc .",
    "if the core is spherically symmetric and filled with stars , then we might expect some intracluster objects to be up to @xmath20  mag brighter than the value of @xmath11 derived from galaxies at the center of the cluster .",
    "this is roughly what is observed in figure  2 .",
    "further evidence that the anomalous pnlf of m87 is due to foreground contamination comes from the fact that it is the outer sample of objects that has most of the bright pn .",
    "the number of foreground pn detected in any region of our ccd field should be roughly proportional to the area of the field ; since the outer region samples @xmath21 times more area than the inner field , those data should contain @xmath21 times more intracluster objects .",
    "in addition , m87 s sharply peaked surface brightness profile guarantees that the ratio of galaxy light to intracluster light in the inner field will be much larger than that in the outer field .",
    "consequently , the contribution of intracluster objects to the inner sample will be small , while that for the outer sample will be relatively large . again , this is roughly what is displayed in figure  2 .",
    "although the idea of intracluster planetary nebulae ( ipn ) seems speculative , there is , in fact , conclusive evidence that such objects do exist . in their radial velocity survey of 19  pn in the halo of the virgo cluster elliptical m86",
    "( @xmath22  ) , arnaboldi ( 1996 ) found three objects with @xmath23  .",
    "these planetaries are undoubtably intracluster in origin . significantly , the pn observed by arnaboldi were originally identified with a 30    filter centered at 5007    ( jacoby , ciardullo , & ford 1990 ) ; intracluster objects with @xmath24  should have been strongly excluded .",
    "the only reason three were detected was that at @xmath25  , [ o  iii ] @xmath26 is shifted into the bandpass of the [ o  iii ] @xmath27 filter !",
    "since @xmath28 , only the very brightest pn could have been detected in this way .",
    "the existence of three intracluster objects in the arnaboldi sample therefore implies the presence of many more .",
    "motivated by our studies of m87 , we decided to search the virgo cluster to confirm the presence of intracluster pn .",
    "we observed three @xmath4 blank fields : one at the isopleth center of subclump a ( subclumps defined by binggeli , tammann & sandage 1987 ) 52 away from m87 , one @xmath29 north of the giant elliptical ngc  4472 in subclump  b , and a third due north of the m87 field shown above . in the first two fields , we identify 69 and 16 intracluster planetary nebulae candidates , respectively . in the third field near m87",
    ", we detect 75 planetary nebulae candidates , of which the majority can be attributed to m87 .",
    "however , like the m87 data shown above , the empirical pnlf is again a poor fit to the observed luminosity function observed for field 3 : a kolmogorov - smirnov test excludes the ciardullo ( 1989 ) law at the 93% confidence level . from our determination of the distance to m87 ( ciardullo 1997 ) , and the expected pnlf for m87",
    "pn , we can show that at least ten planetaries , and probably more , are intracluster in origin .",
    "the combined data from the three fields confirms the intracluster hypothesis for m87 .",
    "intracluster pn are interesting objects in their own right , not simply contaminants to galactic halo samples .",
    "ever since zwicky ( 1951 ) first claimed the detection of excess light between galaxies of the coma cluster , intracluster light has been of great interest to astronomers .",
    "depending on the efficiency of tidal stripping , this intracluster component will contain anywhere between 10% and 70% of the cluster s total luminosity ( richstone & malumuth 1983 ; miller 1983 ) .",
    "it is therefore a sensitive probe of how tidal - stripping works , the distribution of dark matter around galaxies , and of the initial conditions of cluster formation .",
    "we can use our pn observations to trace the amount of stellar light distributed in the virgo intracluster medium .",
    "renzini & buzzoni ( 1986 ) have shown that the bolometric - luminosity specific stellar evolutionary flux of non - star - forming stellar populations , should be @xmath30  stars - yr@xmath31-@xmath32 , independent of population age or initial mass function .",
    "if the lifetime of the planetary nebula stage is @xmath33  yr , then every stellar population should have @xmath34  pn-@xmath32 .",
    "observations in ellipticals have shown that no galaxy has a value of @xmath35 greater than this number , though @xmath35 can be a factor of five smaller ( ciardullo 1995 ) .",
    "nevertheless , the direct relation between the number of planetary nebulae and the parent system s luminosity allows us to estimate the number of stars in virgo s intergalactic environment .",
    "when we apply this calculation to our data , taking the @xmath35 value that produces the minimum amount of starlight necessary to reproduce the data , we find an estimated @xmath36 in the two @xmath4 intracluster fields .",
    "we note that this is the minimum amount of starlight necessary to explain the data , and the amount could be greater by up to a factor of five . if we compare this to the amount of starlight in galaxies , we find that the intracluster stars produce at least 26% of the total stellar luminosity of virgo .",
    "another interesting result is the dramatically different numbers of intracluster pn in fields 1 and 2 . although the survey depths of the regions differ ( due to differences in sky transparency and seeing ) , it is clear that the highest density of intracluster objects is in field  1 , at the center of subclump  a. after accounting for the differing depths , the density of pn in field  2 , which is near the edge of the @xmath18 virgo cluster core in subclump  b , is down by a factor of @xmath37 . the fact that subclump  b has fewer pn than subclump  a can probably be attributed to cluster environment .",
    "it is well known that subclump  b has fewer early - type galaxies than subclump  a ( binggeli , tammann , & sandage 1987 ) .",
    "if ellipticals and intracluster stars have a related formation mechanism ( galaxy interactions ) , then a direct correlation between galaxy type and stellar density in the intergalactic environment might be expected .",
    "clearly , further data is needed to confirm and support these results .",
    "however , it is clear that there is a significant amount of intracluster starlight in the virgo cluster that must be taken into account when dynamical studies are undertaken .",
    "if intracluster objects are ignored , then the derived m / l ratio will be overestimated , due to the much larger velocity dispersion associated with the cluster .",
    "the analysis of the dynamics of virgo s stars has already begun .",
    "we have obtained data on m87 s pn velocities from the wiyn telescope , and will soon begin observing intracluster pn with the hobby - eberly telescope ( het ) . although our sample of m87 objects is contaminated with intracluster objects , it may be possible to separate out the populations using the pnlf and by modeling the velocity distribution of intracluster objects .    in order to learn much more about intracluster pn",
    ", we are continuing our [ o  iii ] @xmath38 virgo survey .",
    "intracluster pn provide information on both the two dimensional and , by using the pnlf , three dimensional structure of the cluster . through the velocities and spatial distribution of intracluster pn",
    ", we can determine whether models of `` galaxy harassment '' ( moore 1996 ) can explain the large amounts of intracluster starlight .",
    "in the future , intracluster stars should be a useful tool in understanding galaxy clusters , and the nature of galactic halos .",
    "arnaboldi , m. & freeman , k. c. 1997 , in the second stromlo symposium : the nature of elliptical galaxies , ed . m. arnaboldi , g.s . da costa & p. saha ( astronomy society of the pacific , san francisco ) , p.  54",
    "arnaboldi , m. , freeman , k.c . , mendez , r.h .",
    ", capaccioli , m. , ciardullo , r. , ford , h. , gerhard , o. , hui , x. , jacoby , g.h . , kudritzki , r.p . , & quinn , p.j .",
    "1996 , , 472 , 145 barnes , j.e .",
    "1988 , , 331 , 699 barnes , j.e .",
    "1992 , , 393 , 484 binggeli , b. , tammann , g. a. , & sandage , a. 1987 , , 94 , 251 ciardullo , r. 1995 , in iau highlights of astronomy , 10 , ed .",
    "i. appenzeller ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , p.  507",
    "ciardullo , r. , jacoby , g. h. , feldmeier j. j. , & bartlett , r. 1997 , , in press ciardullo , r. , jacoby , g.h . , ford , h.c . , & neill , j.d . 1989 , , 339 , 53 de vaucouleurs , g. 1961 , , 6 , 213 dopita , m.a . , jacoby , g.h . , & vassiliadis , e. 1992 , , 389 , 27 ebneter , k. , djorgovski , s. , & davis , m. 1988 , , 95 , 422 feldmeier , j.j . , ciardullo , r. , & jacoby , g.h .",
    "1997 , , 479 , 231 hui , x. , ford , h.c . ,",
    "freeman , k.c . &",
    "dopita m.a .",
    "1995 , , 449 , 592 jacoby , g.h .",
    "1996a , in the extragalactic distance scale , ed .  by m. livio , m. donahue , & n. panagia ( cambridge university press ) , in press jacoby , g.h .",
    "1996b , in iau symposium 180 , planetary nebulae , ed .  by h. habing & h. lamers ( kluwer , dordrecht ) , in press jacoby , g.h . , ciardullo , r. , & ford , h.c .",
    "1990 , , 356 , 332 kormendy , j. , & djorgovski , s. 1989 , , 27 , 235 mndez , r.h . ,",
    "kudritzki , r.p . ,",
    "ciardullo , r. , & jacoby , g.h .",
    "1993 , , 275 , 534 merrifield , m.r . , & kent , s.m . 1990 , , 99 , 1548 .",
    "merritt , d. , & saha , p. 1993",
    ", , 409 , 75 .",
    "miller , g.e .",
    "1983 , , 268 , 495 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , & oemler , a. 1996 , nature , 379 , 613 renzini , a. , & buzzoni , a. 1986 , in spectral evolution of galaxies , ed .  c. chiosi , & a. renzini ( dordrecht : reidel ) , p.  195",
    "richstone , d.o . , & malumuth , e.m .",
    "1983 , , 268 , 30 zwicky , f. 1951 , , 63 , 61"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> planetary nebulae can be useful dynamical probes of elliptical galaxy halos , but progress thus far has been hampered by the small data samples available for study . in order to obtain a large sample of planetary nebulae for dynamical analysis , </S>",
    "<S> we have re - observed the giant elliptical galaxy m87 in the center of the virgo cluster . </S>",
    "<S> surprisingly , we find that the m87 sample is contaminated by a significant fraction of intracluster objects . </S>",
    "<S> follow up observations of three blank fields in the cluster confirm that a significant fraction of virgo s starlight is intracluster . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the implications of intracluster stars for studies of galaxy halos in clusters . </S>"
  ]
}