{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the major concerns in the study of agns is the mechanisms responsible for making gas lose angular momentum and move from galactic scales down to the inner @xmath01 pc region of the galaxy .",
    "several mechanisms have been suggested to explain how this is possible , such as interactions or bars ( see combes contribution to this proceedings for a review ) .",
    "several papers addressed the influence of interactions on the fueling of agns , however , there is no concensus on the subject .",
    "some studies suggest that there is a larger percentage of companions around seyferts ( dahari 1984 ) , while others do not find a significant difference ( fuentes - williams & stocke 1988 ) .",
    "in contrast , in the case of luminous starburst galaxies it is well known that they are related to interacting systems ( sanders et al . 1988 ) .",
    "we believe that most of the problems in this field are due to the way the agn and control samples are selected .",
    "a proper comparison between agns and normal galaxies requires the samples to be selected by a matching host galaxy property .",
    "we solve this problem by using the palomar sample ( ho et al .",
    "1997 ) , which contains homogeneous classification of all galaxies brighter than b@xmath1 in the northern hemisphere .",
    "the detailed results of this study were published in schmitt ( 2001 ) , and our principal results are presented in figure 1 .",
    "we consider that a galaxy has a companion if the distance between it and the possible companion is smaller than 5 times the diameter of the primary galaxy . also",
    ", the brightnesses of the galaxies can not differ by more than 3 magnitudes , and the difference between their radial velocities should be smaller than 1000 km  s@xmath2 .",
    "the left panel of figure 1 shows the percentage of galaxies with companions as a function of the distance between them for the 5 activity classes defined by ho et al .",
    "contrary to previous results , we found that liner s , absorption line and transition galaxies have a higher percentage of companions when compared to seyfert and hii galaxies .",
    "however , we did not take into account the morphological types of the galaxies . a large portion of liner s , and transition galaxies , as well as almost all absorption line objects , are in ellipticals or s0 s , while a considerable portion of seyferts and hii galaxies are found in late type galaxies .",
    "when we consider only ellipticals and s0 s ( middle panel in figure 1 ) , or only galaxies with morphological type sa and later ( right panel ) , we see that there is no difference in the percentage of galaxies with companions for different activity types , indicating that the above result was due to the morphology - density effect .",
    "implications of this result are discussed in schmitt ( 2001 ) .",
    "dahari , o. 1984 , aj , 89 , 966 fuentes - willians , t. & stocke , j. t. 1988 , aj , 96 , 1235 ho , l. c. , filippenko , a. v. & sargent , w. l. w. 1997 , apjs , 112 , 315 sanders , d. b. et al .",
    "1988 , apj , 325 , 74 schmitt , h. r. 2001 , aj , 122 , 2243"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the percentage of active , hii and quiescent galaxies with companions in the palomar survey . we find that when we separate the galaxies by their morphological types ( ellipticals or spirals ) , to avoid morphology - density effects , there is no difference in the percentage of galaxies with companions among the different activity types .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}