{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation of close binary stellar systems is an , as yet , unsolved problem in the field of star formation .",
    "calculations following the isothermal collapse and fragmentation of molecular cloud cores can successfully produce binaries with separations @xmath3 au ( e.g.  boss 1986 ) .",
    "however , once a collapsing molecular cloud core becomes optically thick , the gas temperature increases with density , a hydrostatic core is formed with radius @xmath4 au ( @xcite ) , and fragmentation is suppressed ( boss 1986 , 1988 ) .",
    "a potential opportunity to form close binaries via fragmentation occurs when the temperature in the hydrostatic core reaches @xmath5 k and molecular hydrogen begins to dissociate , resulting in a second collapse within the hydrostatic core ( @xcite ) . when the dissociation is complete , the collapse is finally stopped with the formation of a second hydrostatic , or stellar , core .",
    "fragmentation during the second collapse has been obtained by boss ( 1989 ) and bonnell & bate ( 1994 ) , although in the former paper the binary quickly merged . in both papers ,",
    "fragmentation was found to occur only if the ratio of the rotational energy to the magnitude the gravitational potential energy , @xmath6 , exceeded the value required for dynamic instability to non - axisymmetric perturbations ( @xmath7 ; durisen et al .",
    "1986 ) after a stellar core formed .",
    "otherwise , only a stellar core and stable disc form .",
    "however , in both papers , only the inner regions of the first hydrostatic core were modelled and the initial conditions were chosen somewhat arbitrarily .",
    "ideally , to study the formation of close binary systems , one would wish to follow the collapse of an optically - thin , molecular cloud core all the way to stellar densities .",
    "however , such a calculation requires resolving densities from @xmath8 and length scales from @xmath9 cm in three dimensions .    to achieve such high spatial resolution in three dimensions we use the lagrangian smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) method . with sph",
    ", the spatial resolution is given by the smoothing length ( over which hydrodynamical properties are calculated ) which in modern implementations is continuously variable ( e.g.  benz et al .",
    "the smoothing lengths are set by ensuring that each particle contains a certain number of neighbours , @xmath10 , or equivalently a fixed mass , within two smoothing lengths .",
    "thus , in contrast to a grid - based code which has spatially - limited resolution , sph has mass - limited resolution which _ automatically _ gives greater spatial resolution in regions of higher density .",
    "bate & burkert ( 1997 ) recently demonstrated this mass - limited resolution .",
    "they found that to follow the collapse and fragmentation of a jeans - unstable gas cloud reliably , the minimum resolvable mass should always be less than the jeans mass ( see also whitworth 1998 ) . in practice",
    ", this means that a jeans mass should always be represented by at least @xmath11 particles .",
    "the mass - limited resolution of sph is ideal for studying the collapse and fragmentation of molecular cloud cores because there is a minimum jeans mass in the problem ( figure 1 ) .",
    "by contrast , there is no minimum jeans length .",
    "this is a problem for grid - based codes which must resort to nested or adaptive grids ( e.g.  burkert & bodenheimer  1993 ; truelove et al .",
    "1998 ) . with sph , if the number of particles used is sufficient to resolve the minimum jeans mass , a calculation can be followed to arbitrary densities with the required spatial resolution given automatically with increasing density .",
    "the calculations were performed using a three - dimensional sph code based on a version originally developed by benz ( @xcite ) .",
    "the code uses a tree to calculate the gravitational forces and find nearest neighbours .",
    "the smoothing lengths are variable in time and space , subject to the constraint that the number of neighbours of each particle must remain approximately constant at @xmath12 .",
    "the gravitational force between particles is softened over the hydrodynamic smoothing length using spline softening derived from the smoothing kernel .",
    "hence , the gravitational softening length and hydrodynamic smoothing length are equal and decrease with increasing density . the standard form of the artificial viscosity is used ( @xcite ) , with the parameters @xmath13 and @xmath14 .",
    "the sph equations are integrated using a second - order runge ",
    "fehlberg integrator .",
    "individual time - steps are used for each particle ( @xcite ) .",
    "further details can be found in the above references .",
    "the code does not include radiative transfer .",
    "instead , to model the behaviour of the gas during the different phases of collapse , we use a piece - wise polytropic equation of state @xmath15 , where @xmath16 is the pressure , @xmath17 is the density , @xmath18 gives the entropy of the gas , and the ratio of specific heats , @xmath19 , is varied as @xmath20 where the densities are in @xmath21 ( see figure 1 ) .",
    "the values of @xmath19 and the transition densities are derived from tohline ( 1982 ) .",
    "the variable value of @xmath19 mimics the following behaviour of the gas .",
    "the collapse is isothermal ( @xmath22 ) until the gas becomes optically thick to infrared radiation at @xmath23 , beyond which @xmath24 ( appropriate for a diatomic gas ) .",
    "when the gas reaches a temperature of @xmath25 2000 k ( @xmath26 ) , molecular hydrogen begins to dissociate and the temperature only slowly increases with density . in this phase",
    "we use @xmath27 to model _ both _ the decreasing mean molecular weight and the slow increase of temperature with density , the latter of which has an effective @xmath28 .",
    "finally , when the gas has fully dissociated ( @xmath29 ) , the gas is monatomic and @xmath30 .",
    "the value of @xmath18 is defined such that when the gas is isothermal , @xmath31 with @xmath32 , and when @xmath19 changes the pressure is continuous .    to test that the above equation of state captures the important elements of the gas s behaviour",
    ", we have performed spherically - symmetric , one - dimensional ( 1-d ) , finite - difference calculations of the collapse of a molecular cloud core using the above equation of state and obtained excellent agreement with results from 1-d calculations incorporating radiative transfer ( e.g.  larson 1969 ; winkler & newman 1980a , b ) .",
    "we have also tested that the three - dimensional ( 3-d ) sph code can indeed accurately resolve the collapse down to stellar densities by performing comparison calculations with the same initial conditions as used by the 1-d finite - difference calculations .",
    "so long as the number of particles used by an sph calculation is sufficient to resolve the jeans mass throughout the calculation ( see below ) , we obtain excellent agreement with the results from the 1-d finite - difference code .",
    "the details of these test calculations will be presented in a later paper .",
    "we present results from a 3-d sph calculation following the collapse of an initially uniform - density , uniform - rotating , molecular cloud core of mass @xmath33 and radius @xmath34 .",
    "the angular frequency is @xmath35 rad s@xmath36 , and the ratios of the thermal and rotational energies to the magnitude of the gravitational potential energy are @xmath37 and @xmath38 , respectively . to satisfy the resolution criterion of bate & burkert ( 1997 ) , we require that the minimum jeans mass during the calculation ( @xmath39 ) contains at least @xmath40 particles . hence , we use @xmath41 equal - mass particles .",
    "the evolution of the calculation is as follows ( figure 2 ) .",
    "the initial collapse is isothermal .",
    "when the density surpasses @xmath42 g @xmath43 , the gas in the center is assumed to become optically thick to infrared radiation and begins to heat ( @xmath44 ) .",
    "the heating stops the collapse at the center and the first hydrostatic core is formed ( @xmath45 ) with maximum density @xmath46 g @xmath43 , mass @xmath47 ( @xmath48 particles ) , and radius @xmath49 au . as the first core accretes , its maximum density only slowly increases at first .",
    "however , the first core is rapidly rotating , oblate , and has @xmath50 , making it dynamically unstable to the growth of non - axisymmetric perturbations ( e.g.  durisen et al .",
    "1986 ) . at @xmath51 , after about 3 rotations , the first core becomes violently bar - unstable and forms trailing spiral arms .",
    "this leads to a rapid increase in maximum density as angular momentum is removed from the central regions of the first core ( now a disc with spiral structure ) by gravitational torques ( @xmath52 ) . when the maximum temperature reaches 2000",
    "k , molecular hydrogen begins to dissociate , resulting in a rapid second collapse to stellar densities ( @xmath53 ) .",
    "the collapse is again halted at a density of @xmath54 g @xmath43 with the formation of the second hydrostatic , or stellar , core .",
    "the initial mass and radius of the stellar core are @xmath55 ( @xmath56 particles ) and @xmath57 , respectively .",
    "finally , an inner circumstellar disc begins to form around the stellar object , within the region undergoing second collapse .",
    "the calculation is stopped when the stellar object has a mass of @xmath58 ( @xmath59 particles ) , the inner circumstellar disc has extended out to @xmath60 au , and the outer disc ( the remnant of the first hydrostatic core ) contains @xmath61 ( @xmath62 particles ) and extends out to @xmath63 au .",
    "note that the massive outer disc forms _ before _ the stellar core .",
    "this final state is illustrated in figures 3 and 4 .",
    "if the calculation was evolved further , the inner circumstellar disc would continue to grow in radius as gas with higher angular momentum fell in .",
    "eventually , the inner disc would meet the outer disc with only a small molecular dissociation region between the two .",
    "the value of @xmath6 during the second collapse , or after the stellar core and disc have formed , never exceeds the value necessary for dynamic instability to non - axisymmetric perturbations ( @xmath64 ) .",
    "therefore , unlike in the calculations of bonnell & bate ( 1994 ) , fragmentation to form a close binary system can not occur .",
    "a similar result is obtained with @xmath65 rad s@xmath36 and @xmath66 initially .    since",
    "whether or not fragmentation can occur depends critically on the value of @xmath6 , it is important that there has not been significant spurious transport of angular momentum by artificial viscosity or the diffusion of sph particles .",
    "as sph is a lagrangian technique , it is relatively simple to keep track of the gravitational , pressure , and viscous torques on each particle .",
    "thus , we can determine the cause of the change in angular momentum of a volume of gas between any two times . as one might expect",
    ", we find that there is virtually no angular momentum transport during dynamic collapse .",
    "viscous evolution is more likely during the quasistatic evolution of the first core between its formation and the second collapse . in figure 5",
    ", we consider the cause of the angular momentum transport during the quasistatic first core phase .",
    "viscous evolution , which has presumably been active during the @xmath67 rotations that the first core made before it became violently bar - unstable , is hardly detectable .",
    "by contrast , it takes only 1/4 of a rotation for gravitational torques to remove most of the angular momentum from the gas in the center of the core .",
    "the absence of fragmentation could also be due to the value of @xmath19 during the second collapse being overestimated . this would lead to the value of beta that is achieved at the end of the collapse being underestimated . to determine the dependence of the results on @xmath19 , we performed calculations with @xmath19 as low as 1.05 .",
    "this corresponds to an _ isothermal _ collapse but with the mean molecular weight still _ decreasing _ due to the dissociation of molecular hydrogen . in this extreme case @xmath6",
    "does briefly exceed 0.274 as the stellar core begins to form , but drops below the critical value again over approximately one rotation as the core increases in mass and before non - axisymmetric perturbations are able to grow significantly .",
    "the inner disc that forms around the stellar core also has a brief period with @xmath68 until more mass is accreted .",
    "weak , transient spiral arms are visible in the disc over several rotations , however , there is no tendency for fragmentation .",
    "larson ( 1969 ) performed the first hydrodynamical calculations of the collapse of a molecular cloud core to stellar densities using a spherically - symmetric , one - dimensional code .",
    "after nearly 30 years , it is now possible to perform three - dimensional calculations . using sph ,",
    "we have followed the three - dimensional collapse of a molecular cloud core over 17 orders of magnitude in density contrast and 7 orders of magnitude in spatial extent , resolving both the isothermal and second collapse phases , and the formation of the first and second hydrostatic cores .",
    "using this technique , we have begun a study of whether or not close binary stellar systems may be formed during the second collapse phase of a molecular cloud core , as proposed by bonnell & bate ( 1994 ) .",
    "we find that , if the first hydrostatic core is formed with sufficient rotational energy to make it dynamically unstable to the growth of non - axisymmetric perturbations , fragmentation during the second collapse is prevented because of the removal of angular momentum from the central regions of the first core via gravitational torques .",
    "the formation of close binaries during the second collapse phase _ may be possible _ for molecular cloud cores with different initial conditions , _ especially _ if they are rotating slowly enough that the first core is rotationally stable .",
    "different initial conditions will be investigated in a subsequent paper .",
    "bate , m. r. , bonnell , i. a. , & price , n. m. 1995 , , 277 , 362 bate , m.r . , & burkert , a. 1997 , , 288 , 1060 benz , w. 1990 , in the numerical modeling of nonlinear stellar pulsations : problems and prospects , ed . j. r. buchler , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 269 benz , w. , bowers , r. l. , cameron , a. g. w. , & press , w. 1990 , , 348 , 647 bonnell , i. a. , & bate , m. r. 1994 , , 271 , 999 boss , a. p. 1986",
    ", , 62 , 519 boss , a. p. 1988",
    ", , 331 , 370 boss , a. p. 1989",
    ", , 346 , 336 burkert , a , & bodenheimer , p. 1993",
    ", , 264 , 798 durisen , r. h. , gingold , r. a. , tohline , j. e. , boss , a. p. , 1986",
    ", , 305 , 281 larson , r. b. 1969 , , 145 , 271 monaghan , j. j. , & gingold , r. a. 1983 , j. comput .",
    "phys . , 52 , 374 tohline , j. e. 1982 , fund .",
    ", 8 , 1 truelove , j. k. , klein , r. i. , mckee , c. f. , holliman , j. h. , ii , howell , l. h. , greenough , j. a. , & woods , d. t. 1998 , , 495 , 821 whitworth , a. p. 1998",
    ", , 296 , 442 winkler , k .- h .",
    "a. , newman , m. j. , 1980 , , 236 , 201 winkler , k .- h .",
    "a. , newman , m. j. , 1980 , , 238 , 311"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present results from the first three - dimensional calculations ever to follow the collapse of a molecular cloud core ( @xmath0 ) to stellar densities ( @xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the calculations resolve structures over 7 orders of magnitude in spatial extent ( @xmath2 ) , and over 17 orders of magnitude in density contrast . with these calculations </S>",
    "<S> , we consider whether fragmentation to form a close binary stellar system can occur during the second collapse phase . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , if the quasistatic core that forms before the second collapse phase is dynamically unstable to the growth of non - axisymmetric perturbations , the angular momentum extracted from the central regions of the core , via gravitational torques , is sufficient to prevent fragmentation and the formation of a close binary during the subsequent second collapse . </S>"
  ]
}