{
  "article_text": [
    "variable stars play a key role in many astrophysical problems , since their pulsation properties do depend on stellar parameters , and therefore they can supply valuable and independent constraints on a large amount of current evolutionary predictions . in particular , the empirical evidence found long time ago in magellanic cepheids of the correlation between period and luminosity was the initial step for a paramount theoretical and observational effort aimed at using variable stars as standard candles to estimate cosmic distances .",
    "the current literature is still hosting a vivid debate on the intrinsic accuracy of the cepheid distance scale ( bono et al .",
    "1999 ; laney 2000 ) and on the use of rr lyrae variables to evaluate the distance -and the age- of galactic globulars ( caputo 1998 ; gratton 1998 , g98 ) .    theoretical insights into the problem of radial stellar pulsations came from the linearization of local conservation equations governing the dynamical instability of stellar envelopes .",
    "linear , nonadiabatic models typically supply accurate pulsation periods and plausible estimates ( necessary conditions ) on the modal stability of the lowest radial modes .",
    "however , a proper treatment of radial pulsations does require the solution of the full system of hydrodynamic equations , including a nonlocal and time - dependent treatment of turbulent convection ( tc ) to account for the coupling between radial and convective motions ( castor 1968 ; stellingwerf 1982 , s82 ) .",
    "the development of nonlinear , convective hydrocodes ( s82 ; gehmeyr 1992 ; bono & stellingwerf 1994 , bs ; wuchterl & feuchtinger 1998 ) gave the opportunity to provide plausible predictions on the properties of radial variables , and in particular on the topology of the instability strip , as well as on the time behavior of both light and radial velocity curves .",
    "this new theoretical scenario allowed to investigate , for the first time , the dependence of pulsation amplitudes and fourier parameters on stellar mass , luminosity and effective temperature ( see e.g. kovacs & kanbur 1997 ; brocato et al . 1996 ; feuchtinger 2000 , f20 ) . however , all these investigations dealt with parameters related to the light curve , whereas nonlinear computations supply much more information , as given by the detailed predictions of the light variation along a full pulsation cycle",
    ". therefore , the direct comparison between observed and predicted light curves appears as a key test only partially exploited in the current literature ( wood , arnold , & sebo 1997 , was ) .    in order to perform a detailed test of the predictive capability of our nonlinear , convective models we focused our attention on the photometric data collected by heiser ( 1996 , h96 ) for the field , first overtone -@xmath0- variable u com",
    "the reason for this choice relies on the detailed coverage of the u , b , and v light curves , as well as on the characteristic shape of the light curve , with a well - defined bump close to the luminosity maximum .",
    "this secondary feature provides a tight observational constraint to be nailed down by theory .",
    "since the period of the variable strongly depends on the structural parameters ( mass , luminosity , and radius ) of the pulsator , the problem arises whether or not nonlinear pulsation models account for the occurrence of similar pulsators , and in affirmative how precisely the observed light curves can be reproduced by theoretical predictions .    in  2 we present the comparison between theory and observations , while in  3 we discuss the calibration of the tc model .",
    "finally , in  4 we briefly outline the observables which can further validate this theoretical scenario .",
    "on the basis of spectroscopic measurements fernley & barnes ( 1997 , fb97 ) estimated for u com  a metallicity @xmath1=-1.25\\pm0.20 $ ] , while fernley et al .",
    "( 1998 , fb98 ) found a negligible interstellar extinction ( @xmath2 ) . according to these empirical evidence and to a well - established evolutionary scenario",
    ", we expect for a metal - poor rr lyrae a stellar mass of the order of 0.6 @xmath3 and a luminosity ranging from log @xmath4=1.6 to 1.7 . at the same time , pulsation predictions on double - mode pulsators suggest similar mass values ( cox 1991 ; bono et al . 1996 ) . as a consequence , we computed a sequence of nonlinear models at fixed chemical composition ( y=0.24 , z=0.001 ) and pulsation period @xmath5 d. along such an iso - period sequence the individual models",
    "were constructed at fixed mass value ( @xmath6= 0.60 ) , while both the luminosity and the effective temperature were changed according to the pulsation relation given by bono et al .",
    "( 1997 , bccm ) . both linear and nonlinear",
    "models were computed by adopting the input physics , and physical assumptions already discussed in bs , bccm , and in bono , marconi & stellingwerf ( 1999 ) . according to s82 ,",
    "current models were computed by assuming a vanishing efficiency of turbulent overshooting in the region where the superadiabatic gradient attains negative values .",
    "this means that the convective flux can only attain positive or vanishing values ( @xmath7 ) . in the next section",
    "we show that the assumption adopted in our previous investigations -i.e .",
    "@xmath8 can attain both positive and negative values- marginally affects the topology of the instability strip , but the predicted light curves are somewhat at variance with empirical ones .",
    "the top panels of fig . 1 show that at fixed stellar mass ( @xmath6=0.60 ) , the double peak feature appears in models characterized by luminosities approximately equal to log @xmath4@xmath91.61 , and effective temperatures ranging from 6950 to 7150 k. these models also present b amplitudes in reasonable agreement with empirical estimates ( @xmath10 mag ) .",
    "the bottom panels of fig . 1 display the light curves of models along the iso - period sequence constructed by adopting a fixed effective temperature ( @xmath11 k ) but different assumptions on stellar mass and luminosity .",
    "a glance at these curves shows that the luminosity amplitude is mainly governed by the stellar mass , whereas the shape of the light curve is only marginally dependent on this parameter .",
    "we find that the best fit to the observed b light curve is obtained for @xmath6=0.6 , log @xmath4=1.607 , @xmath11 k , @xmath12 d , together with a distance modulus @xmath13 mag .",
    "the fit -though not perfect- appears rather satisfactory , thus suppling a substantial support to the predictive impact of the adopted theoretical scenario . on the basis of this finding",
    ", we are now interested in testing the accuracy of theoretical predictions in different photometric bands . fig .",
    "2 shows from left to right the comparison between predicted light curves ( solid lines ) and empirical data ( open circles ) in the u , b , v , and k band respectively .",
    "the comparison was performed by adopting the same distance modulus , i.e. by neglecting the interstellar extinction , and the agreement between theory and observations seems even better than for the b light curve . thus suggesting that nonlinear models account for luminosity amplitudes which are a long - standing problem of pulsation theory .",
    "not surprisingly , we also find that the time average colors predicted by our model appear , within current uncertainty on both reddening and photometry , in very good agreement with empirical estimates ( see table 1 ) .",
    "this result supports the evidence that nonlinear models , at least in this case , can constrain stellar colors by best fitting the light curve in a single photometric band . at the same time , this agreement suggests that the pulsational constraints on the temperature of the pulsator , as derived by the b light curve , are consistent with the theoretical light curves in the other photometric bands .",
    "cccc +   + color & theory & observ .",
    "+ mag & & @xmath14 & @xmath15 + @xmath16 & @xmath17 & @xmath18 & @xmath19 + @xmath20 & @xmath21 & @xmath22 & @xmath23 + @xmath24 & @xmath25 & @xmath26 & @xmath27 +    @xmath28 empirical estimates are based on photometric data collected by h96 and by fb97 .",
    "theoretical colors refer to the best fit model , and the errors were estimated by assuming an uncertainty of 50 k in the temperature of this model .",
    "however , we note that on the basis of both the period and the shape of the b light curve we predicted the effective temperature , the intrinsic luminosity , and in turn the distance modulus of this object .",
    "the plausibility of the theoretical constraints can be further tested by comparing them with independent evaluations available in the literature .",
    "we find that the effective temperature predicted by nonlinear models -@xmath29 k- is in remarkable agreement with the empirical temperature -@xmath30 k- derived by adopting the true intensity mean color @xmath31 provided by fb97 and the ct relation by fernley ( 1989 ) .",
    "the same outcome applies by assuming e(b - v)=0 , and indeed @xmath32 k , while the semi - empirical estimate provided by h96 suggests @xmath33 k. we also note that the effective gravity of the best fit model ( log @xmath34 ) is also in very good agreement with both the photometric estimate obtained by h96 ( log @xmath35 ) and the spectroscopic measurements for field rr lyrae variables provided by clementini et al .",
    "( 1995 ) and by lambert et al .",
    "( 1996 ) .    as far as the distance modulus is concerned , fig .",
    "3 shows the comparison of our pulsational estimates ( filled circles ) with empirical and theoretical u com  absolute magnitudes obtained by adopting different methods .",
    "the top and the bottom panel refer to absolute magnitudes based on visual and nir magnitudes respectively .",
    "data plotted in this figure show that our estimates appear in satisfactory agreement with distances based on the baade - wesselink method , on the statistical parallax method , on hipparcos trigonometric parallaxes and proper motions , and on rr lyrae k band pl relation .",
    "however , one also finds that the distance determination based on hb evolutionary models constructed by including the most recent input physics ( cassisi et al .",
    "1999 , c99 ) seems to overestimate the distance modulus by approximately 0.18 mag when compared with the current pulsation determination .",
    "a disagreement between evolutionary and pulsation predictions concerning the luminosities of rr lyrae stars was brought out by caputo et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , and more recently by castellani et al .",
    "( 2000 ) who found that up - to - date he - burning models seem too bright when compared with hipparcos absolute magnitudes .",
    "data plotted in fig .",
    "3 confirm this discrepancy between evolutionary and pulsational predictions , possibly due to an overluminosity of hb models .",
    "part of this discrepancy might be due to the higher temperature of u com when compared with the mean temperature of rr lyrae gap ( @xmath36 k ) adopted in evolutionary estimates .",
    "finally , we also constructed several sequences of models by increasing or decreasing the metal abundance by a factor of two .",
    "we find that the bump becomes more ( less ) evident at lower ( higher ) metal contents , and that this change does not allow us to obtain a good fit between theory and observations .",
    "this result is in satisfactory agreement with the spectroscopic estimate by fb97 and supports the evidence that the shape of the light curve can also be used to constrain the @xmath0 metallicity ( bono , incerpi , & marconi 1996 ) .",
    "the first set of models we constructed for fitting the empirical light curves was characterized by an unpleasant feature : the peak of the bump was , in contrast with empirical evidence , brighter than the `` true '' luminosity maximum . according to bono & stellingwerf ( 1993 ) the bump along the rising branch presents a strong dependence on the free parameters adopted in the tc model . however , in the calibration of the tc model suggested by bs both the eddy viscosity and the diffusion scale lengths ( see their equ . 4 and 9 )",
    "were scaled to the value of the mixing length parameter .",
    "we performed several numerical experiments by changing along each sequence only one of the three free parameters .",
    "as a result , we find that full amplitudes models constructed by adopting plausible changes of the free parameters do not simultaneously account for the pulsation amplitude , the shape of the light curve , and the temperature width of first overtone instability region .    due to the lack of a self - consistent theory of time",
    "- dependent , nonlocal , convective transport , current investigations were mainly aimed at calibrating the free parameters adopted for treating the coupling between pulsation and convection ( yecko et al .",
    "1998 ; f20 ) .",
    "this is not a trivial effort , since the observables and the comparison between theory and observations are affected by the thorny problem of the transformation into the observational plane and/or by systematic deceptive errors such as reddening and distance estimates . in order to overcome some of these difficulties , f20 calibrated the tc model by performing a detailed comparison between theoretical and observed luminosity amplitudes of field rr lyrae variables .",
    "on the basis of the fine tuning of both mixing length and turbulent viscosity length , f20 found that the fourier parameters of fundamental light curves agree with observational data .",
    "the same outcome did not apply to @xmath0 variables , and indeed predicted values appear , at fixed period , smaller than the empirical ones .",
    "a detailed comparison with the convective structure of rr lyrae models constructed by f20 is not possible because he adopted a convective flux limiter in the turbulent source function and in the convective flux enthalpy , and neglected both the turbulent pressure and the turbulent overshooting . as a consequence",
    ", we decided to test the dependence of full amplitude models on the last two ingredients .",
    "interestingly enough , we find that the models constructed by assuming a vanishing overshooting efficiency satisfy empirical constraints i.e. the bump is dimmer than the luminosity maximum , the luminosity amplitudes attain values similar to the observed ones and the temperature width of the region in which the first overtone is unstable agrees with bccm findings for cluster @xmath0 variables .",
    "4 shows the b light curve of two models constructed by adopting the same input parameters , but different assumptions on the efficiency of turbulent overshooting .",
    "it is noteworthy the simultaneous change in the pulsation amplitude and in the shape of the light curve .",
    "the dependence of the convective structure on both overshooting and turbulent pressure will be investigated in a forthcoming paper .",
    "the comparison between theory and observations , namely the period and the shape of the b light curve of u com , allowed us to supply tight constraints on the structural parameters such as stellar mass , effective temperature , and gravity , as well as on the distance of this variable .",
    "we also found that the occurrence of a well - defined bump close to the luminosity maximum can be safely adopted for constraining the metallicity of this object and for calibrating the tc model adopted for handling the coupling between convection and pulsation .",
    "the approach adopted in this investigation seems quite promising since it only relies on nonlinear , convective models and on stellar atmosphere models .",
    "in fact , the best fit model to the empirical data was found by constructing sequences of iso - period models in which the stellar mass , the luminosity and the effective temperatures were not changed according to hb models but to the pulsation relation ( bccm ) .",
    "the comparison between theory and observations shows that both the structural parameters and the distance are in very good agreement with estimates available in the literature .",
    "no evidence for a systematic discrepancy was found in pulsation estimates , thus supporting the evidence that the individual fit to light curves can supply independent and firm constraints on the actual parameters and distances of variable stars .",
    "this finding confirms the results of a similar analysis on a lmc bump cepheid by was .",
    "accurate radial velocity data for u com  are not available in the literature and therefore we could not constrain the accuracy of the velocity variation along the pulsation cycle . the three radial velocity points collected by fb98",
    "agree quite well with the predicted curve . however , the radial velocity curve is a key observable for constraining the consistency of the adopted tc model ( f20 ) , and therefore new spectroscopic measurements of u com  would be of great relevance for assessing the predictive impact of nonlinear , convective models .",
    "theoretical observables of the best fit model discussed in this paper , as well as both radius and radial velocity variations are available upon request to the authors .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank m. groenewegen for providing us the u com  distances based on the reduced parallax method and on the modified lutz - kelker correction , as well as for insightful discussions on their accuracy .",
    "we are indebted to r. garrido for sending us radial velocity data and to t. barnes for useful suggestions on current data .",
    "we also acknowledge an anonymous referee for some useful suggestions that improved the readability of the paper . this work was supported by murst -cofin98- under the project `` stellar evolution ''",
    ". partial support by asi and cnaa is also acknowledged .",
    "barnes , t. g. , & hawley , s. l. 1986 , , 307 , l9 ( bh ) bono , g. , caputo , f. , castellani , v. , & marconi , m. 1996 , , 471 , l33 bono , g. , caputo , f. , castellani , v. , & marconi , m. 1997 , , 121 , 327 ( bccm ) bono , g. , caputo , f. , castellani , v. , & marconi , m. 1999 , , 512 , 711 bono , g. , incerpi , r. , & marconi , m. 1996 , , 467 , l97 bono , g. , marconi , m. , & stellingwerf , r. f. 1999 , , 22 , 167 bono , g. , & stellingwerf , r. f. 1993 , soc . astr .",
    "italiana mem .",
    ", 64 , 559 bono , g. , & stellingwerf , r. f. 1994 , apjs , 93 , 233 ( bs ) brocato , e. , castellani , v. & ripepi , v. 1996 , , 111 , 809 caputo , f. 1998 , , 9 , 33 caputo , f. , castellani , v. , marconi , m. , & ripepi , v. 1999 , , 306 , 815 carney , b. w. , fulbright , j. p. , terndrup , d. m. , suntzeff , n. b. , & walker , a. r. 1995 , , 110 , 1674 ( c95 ) cassisi , s. , castellani , v. , deglinnocenti , s. , salaris , m. & weiss , a. 1999 , , 134 , 103 ( c99 ) castellani , v. , deglinnocenti , s. , girardi , l. , marconi , m. , prada moroni , p. g. , & weiss , a. 2000 , in press castelli , f. , gratton , r. g. , & kurucz , r. l. 1997 , , 324 , 432 castor , j. i. 1968 , unpublished clementini , g. , carretta , e. , gratton , r. , merighi , r. 1995 , , 110 , 2319 cox , a. n. 1991 , , 381 , l71 fernley , j. 1989 , mnras , 239 , 905 fernley , j. , & barnes , t. g. 1997 , , 125 , 313 ( fb97 ) fernley , j. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 330 , 515 ( fb98 ) fernley , j. , carney , b. w. , skillen , i. , cacciari , c. , & janes , k. 1998 , , 293 , l61 ( fc98 ) fernley , j. , skillen , i. , & burki , g. 1993 , , 97 , 815 feuchtinger , m. u. 2000 , , in press ( f20 ) gehmeyr , m. 1992 , , 399 , 272 gould , a. & popowski , p. 1998",
    ", , 508 , 844 ( gp ) gratton , r. g. 1998 , , 296 , 739 ( g98 ) groenewegen , m. a. t. , & salaris , m. 1999 , , 348 , l33 ( gs ) heiser , a. m. 1996 , , 112 , 2142 ( h96 ) jones , r. v. , carney , b. w. , storm , j. , & latham , d. w. 1992 , , 386 , 646 ( j92 ) kovacs , g. , & kanbur , s. 1997 , , 295 , 834 lambert , d. l. , heath , j. e. , lemke , m. , drake , j. 1996 , 103 , 183 laney c. d. 2000 , in iau colloq .",
    "176 , the impact of large - scale surveys on pulsating star research , ed .",
    "l. szabados , & d. kurtz ( san francisco : asp ) , in press layden , a. 1999 in post - hipparcos cosmic candles , ed .",
    "a. heck , & f. caputo ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 37 ( l99 ) layden , a. , hanson , r. b. , hawley , s. l. , klemola , a. r. & hanley , c. j. 1996 , , 112 , 2110 ( l96 ) longmore , a. j. , dixon , r. , skillen , i. , jameson , r. f. , & fernley , j. 1990 , , 247 , 684 ( l90 ) stellingwerf , r. f. 1982 , , 262 , 330 ( s82 ) tsujimoto , t. , miyamoto , m. , & yoshii , y. 1998 , , 492 , l79 ( tmy ) wood , p. r. , arnold , a. , & sebo , k. m. 1997 , apj , 485 , l25 ( was ) wuchterl , g. , & feuchtinger , m. u. 1998 , 340 , 419 yecko , p. a. , kollath , z. , buchler , j.r .",
    "1998 , a&a , 336 , 553"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we use high precision multiband photometric data of the first overtone rr lyrae u com  to investigate the predictive capability of full amplitude , nonlinear , convective hydrodynamical models . </S>",
    "<S> the main outcome of this investigation is that theoretical predictions properly account for the luminosity variations along a full pulsation cycle . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , we find that this approach , due to the strong dependence of this observable and of the pulsation period on stellar parameters , supply tight constraints on stellar mass , effective temperature , and distance modulus . </S>",
    "<S> pulsational estimates of these parameters appear in good agreement with empirical ones . finally , the occurrence of a well - defined bump just before the luminosity maximum gave the unique opportunity to calibrate the turbulent convection model adopted for handling the coupling between pulsation and convection . </S>"
  ]
}