{
  "article_text": [
    "the new breed of spectro - polarimeters scheduled to begin operation in the next few years make the present a very exciting time for solar physics .",
    "examples of these instruments are solis ( @xcite @xcite ) , solar - b ( @xcite @xcite ) , polis ( @xcite @xcite ) , sunrise ( @xcite @xcite ) , and the dlsp ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "all these instruments , however , are highly specialized and operate under fixed conditions , either with the aim of performing synoptic observations or to optimize for spatial resolution . while these aspects are very important for the future advance of solar physics , we feel that there is also a need for an `` experiment - oriented '' type of instrument . by this",
    "we mean an instrument that provides enough flexibility to implement more or less arbitrary optical arrangements at the observer s request . such an instrument should allow researchers to observe any given spectral line ( or combinations of lines ) , either on the disk or off the limb at a diverse range of wavelengths .",
    "one should be able to modify parameters like spatial resolution , spectral dispersion , integration times , etc , in order to address a broad range of scientific problems . in some sense",
    ", operating an instrument of this kind is like setting up an experiment in a laboratory .",
    "optical components and detector systems are arranged on an optical bench to investigate some specific problem .    for more than a decade",
    ", the highly successful advanced stokes polarimeter ( asp , @xcite @xcite ) has provided these capabilities at _ visible _ wavelengths .",
    "the spectro - polarimeter for infrared and optical regions ( spinor ) will replace the asp as the experiment - oriented spectro - polarimeter on the dunn solar telescope ( dst ) at the national solar observatory ( nso ) , sunspot , nm , usa .",
    "spinor is currently under deveopment by the high altitude observatory and the national solar observatory .",
    "it has been conceived with flexibility as a top priority and intends to fill this gap in the next - generation solar instrumentation .",
    "the new instrument will replace and enhance the capabilities of the asp .",
    "table  [ table1 ] below provides some specifications for spinor .",
    "the most important enhancement over the asp is the ability to observe simultaneously in the visible _ and _ the near infrared .",
    "higher spatial resolution than was available over most of the life of the asp is now possible thanks the the high - order adaptive optics ( ao ) system ( @xcite @xcite ) developed for the dst .",
    "two different detectors will be available at commissioning time ( scheduled for 2006 ) : a pixelvision pluto 652x488 thinned back - illuminated split frame transfer ccd , 60 frames per second readout rate ( hereafter pluto ) and a sarnoff cam1m100-sft , 1024x512 , thinned back - illuminated split frame transfer ccd , 100 frames per second readout rate .",
    "these will be fully dedicated for observations between 430  nm and @xmath01  @xmath1 m .",
    "the spinor optics allow for an even broader range of wavelengths , up to 1.6  @xmath1 m , which will be accessible with an hao rockwell infrared camera that is shared with other hao projects .",
    "the modular design of the instrument control allows for additional detectors to be attached to spinor using nso s virtual camera interface .",
    "this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section  [ sec : science ] discusses the scientific motivations for the development of spinor .",
    "section  [ sec : instrument ] presents a description of the polarimeter with some details on the new achromatic optics .",
    "the polarimetric calibration of the system consisting of the telescope and the polarimeter is explained in section  [ sec : calib ] .",
    "some observations taken during two campaigns in june 2004 and may 2005 are presented in section  [ sec : obs ] to illustrate the capabilities of the instrument .",
    "finally , section  [ sec : conc ] presents the main conclusions of our work and some future perspectives .",
    "the main scientific driver behind the development of spinor is to expand the present asp magnetometric capabilities into the higher solar atmosphere .",
    "however , its infrared coverage is also of great relevance for the study of problems associated with photospheric magnetism .",
    "below we summarize some of the major scientific problems for which spinor is particularly suited , which can not be pursued using the asp ( or other existing instruments ) .",
    "however , being that this an experiment - oriented instrument designed for maximum versatility , its most important applications might be some that we can not envision at this time .",
    "recent investigations of photospheric fields in the infrared often reveal a different picture from conventional visible observations . a remarkable example is the finding of supersonic flows in the penumbrae of sunspots by @xcite ( @xcite ) in data from the tenerife infrared polarimeter ( tip ) .",
    "such strong flows had never been observed in the visible , with the exception of the peculiar @xmath2-configuration sunspots ( @xcite @xcite ) , and flows near pores ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "perhaps the most puzzling observations of photospheric fields in the infrared are those of the quiet sun , particularly outside the magnetic network ( the region sometimes referred to as the photospheric internetwork ) .",
    "visible observations indicate that most of the fields in this region are strong ( @xmath01.3  kg ) , but concentrated into very small areas ( @xmath01% of the pixel ; see @xcite @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "however , recent infrared observations ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) suggest that most of the fields are weak ( @xmath0400  g ) and diffuse .",
    "these seemingly contradictory results have sparked a controversy on the true nature of quiet sun fields .",
    "this issue is an important one , since our current understanding indicates that most of the solar magnetic flux ( even at solar maximum ) is located in the quiet sun outside of active regions , and it is likely that the evolution of this flux plays a role in the heating of the upper atmosphere .",
    "a possible solution to the observational contradiction has been proposed by @xcite ( @xcite ) and @xcite ( @xcite ) .",
    "it turns out that the observations may be explained by a small - scale distribution of fields , beyond the spatial resolution of the observations , having intermixed weak and strong fields .",
    "moreover , these authors showed that the actual sub - pixel distribution of the field can be inferred from simultaneous visible and infrared observations ( like those from spinor ) .",
    "the results of @xcite ( @xcite ) may be extrapolated to other physical scenarios in which different field strengths coexist within the resolution element of the observations .",
    "another example where this strategy would be very useful is the investigation of sunspot penumbrae .",
    "the actual size , properties and origin of these filaments are still a subject of debate ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "the ability to infer spatially - unresolved distributions of the magnetic field from simultaneous visible and infrared observations would provide important clues on the structure of the penumbra .",
    "innovative new diagnostics of solar magnetic fields are emerging as a result of parallel theoretical and observational advances . in a recent effort to understand the anomalous polarization signals observed in some spectral lines , @xcite ( @xcite ) studied the hyperfine structure induced in the atomic energy levels by the nuclear spin , and its effects on the polarization transfer process .",
    "they demonstrated that the signature imprinted by the hyperfine structure on some spectral lines has an important potential for magnetic field diagnostics .",
    "some of the most interesting lines lie in the wavelength domain between 800 and 1500  nm .",
    "examples are the rb  i  d1 line at 794  nm , which shows a combination of hyperfine structure and isotopic mix , or the mn  i lines at 870  nm , and in the infrared at 1.29 , 1.33 and 1.52  @xmath1 m .",
    "a new global picture of solar magnetism is emerging from the seemingly disparate observational domains of photospheric small - scale magnetic fields and the diffuse , voluminous magnetic structure of the solar corona .",
    "the observation and interpretation techniques used for photospheric and coronal studies are markedly different . to further the development of this global view",
    ", we identify a key missing ingredient : an in - depth investigation of the interface layer , the chromosphere .",
    "observational capability for chromospheric vector magnetic fields and the associated dynamics has been lacking because most interesting and/or useful lines lie outside the wavelength coverage range of most solar polarimeters ( it should be noted , however , that successful investigations of prominence fields have been carried out recently ; e.g. @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "observable lines either form too low in the chromosphere ( e.g. , the mg  i @xmath3-lines ) or their polarization transfer is still not well understood ( e.g. , h@xmath4 ) .",
    "spinor would open new perspectives for chromospheric investigations with its ability to observe the full polarization state of the ca  ii infrared triplet , around 854  nm . these lines are the best candidates for chromospheric diagnostics , at least in the zeeman regime , due to their relatively simple formation physics , their long wavelengths ( which results in stronger zeeman signals ) , and the valuable information they carry on the thermal and magnetic conditions of the higher atmosphere ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "they are also sensitive to the hanle effect , which provides complementary diagnostics on the weaker ( @xmath01  g ) fields , and have been successfully modeled by @xcite ( @xcite ) .",
    "finally , the he  i multiplet at 1083  nm is of great interest for chromospheric studies .",
    "this line is seen in emission in prominences and in absorption in filaments , with strong polarization signals arising from both hanle and zeeman effect .",
    "spinor would be able to provide full spectro - polarimetry at 1083  nm , which implies the potential to investigate the magnetic and dynamic conditions of these structures .",
    "other interesting coronal lines that may be accessible for observations are the two fe  xiii lines at 1074  nm , although these may not be visible using a traditional solar telescope .",
    "spinor is based on the design of the asp , which uses a rotating waveplate as a modulator and a polarization beam splitter as a dual - beam analyzer .",
    "all of the polarization optical components , however , have been replaced by new achromatic ones .",
    "spinor utilizes the asp calibration / modulation unit ( cal / mod ) at the exit port of the dst , high - order ao , and the horizontal spectrograph ( hsg ) .",
    "its optical components are distributed throughout the dst at the same locations as those for the asp ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "the entrance window can be covered with the achromatic linear polarizer array .",
    "achromatic calibration and modulation optics reside in the calibration / modulation unit just above telescope port 4 .",
    "the achromatic polarizing beam splitter is just behind the entrance slit of the horizontal spectrograph .",
    "camera lenses , pre - filters , and high speed cameras specific to spinor are located within the hsg .",
    "since spinor operates over a much wider wavelength range compared to asp , it was deemed necessary to allow spinor to use a selection of gratings .",
    "depending upon the desired spectral line and spectral resolution , different gratings may be selected .",
    "higher blaze angle gives higher spectral resolution for the same spatial sample size .",
    "since spinor will operate with ao , its design favors a higher spatial resolution than the asp . as a general - purpose research instrument",
    ", it can not be optimized for a single line , so the spinor spatial resolution is not as high as that attainable by the new dlsp .",
    "these spectrograph issues lead typically to a spectrograph using a 40  @xmath1 m slit and 1000  mm camera lens .",
    "the observations reported in this paper were carried out using the 308.57  line / mm grating with a blaze angle of 52@xmath5 .",
    "users can choose among several nso gratings ( see http://nsosp.nso.edu/dst/userman/instruments/hsg/ ) which combined with the other variables permit a wide range of resolutions and spectral ranges .",
    "as an example , for the sarnoff camera , 630.2  nm , 50  @xmath1 m slit , 1000  mm camera lens focal length , 316  line / mm grating , and 63  degree angle of incidence , resolving power is 170,000 , and spectrum length is 1.2  nm .",
    "spinor has been conceived keeping versatility as the highest priority in order to allow for a broad range of potential applications .",
    "the project is being developed in a way that allows the asp to remain operational until the new instrument is completed .",
    "its most important features are :    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "a first engineering run took place on june 2004 with the following configuration .",
    "the new polarization and imaging optics were carefully set up and aligned . for much of this run",
    "we used the old asp modulator because at the time of the observations we had not yet received the new achromatic modulator from the manufacturer .",
    "this resulted in less than optimum polarimetric efficiency at long wavelengths .",
    "the new modulator arrived later in the observing run and is now available for use at the dst .",
    "the asp cameras were configured to record the ca  ii lines at 849.8 and 854.2  nm ( plus some other photospheric and telluric lines blended in the wings of the ca lines ) .",
    "the new pluto camera was observing at 1083.0  nm , including the he  i multiplet , two photospheric lines and a telluric line .",
    "we aligned the camera chips so that the broad ca lines would fall near the edge of the chip . in this manner",
    "we can record some wing `` continuum '' on the opposite side of the detector , which is useful for the data analysis ( polarization calibration , flat - fielding and also as a reference for the thermodynamics in the inversions ) . since most of the polarization signal is concentrated near the line core",
    ", it is not necessary to record both wings of the ca lines .",
    "an additional advantage is that we can also record a strong photospheric line in the 854.2  nm images .",
    "fig  [ fig : maps ] shows several maps of active region noaa  0634 observed on june 16 at 15:16  ut .",
    "this dataset has the best seeing among our active region observations , with a granulation contrast of 3.3% ( notice that this value may not be directly comparable to that of visible observations because of the variation of the source function with wavelength ) .",
    "some features apparent in the magnetograms or the chromospheric filtegrams ( e.g. , the transversal fluctuations in the penumbral filaments near coordinates [ @xmath6,@xmath7 in the figure ) exhibit spatial scales as small as 0.6  .    the maps represented in the figures have been obtained from a spectro - polarimetric scan of the region consisting of 350 steps of 0.22each .",
    "the scanning step oversamples the resolution element .",
    "this was done so that it would be possible to bin the 1083.0  nm data in order to build up its photon count without saturating the other two detectors .",
    "unfortunately the 1083  nm data from this day was unusable due to problems with the camera .",
    "therefore we only show the 849.8 and 854.2  nm regions for this dataset .",
    "the term `` magnetogram '' is used in this work somewhat inappropriately ( but following a very widespread terminology ) to refer to the amount of stokes v signal integrated over a certain bandwidth on either the red or blue side of the line center , and normalized to the intensity integrated over the same bandwidth .",
    "we have used a 10-pixel wide square filter function .",
    "notice that this quantity is not necessarily related to the magnetic field strength in the sun . in some cases",
    "it may bear some resemblance to the longitudinal magnetic flux density ( as defined by @xcite @xcite ) , but this is not always the case ( @xcite @xcite ) especially given the complex polarization patterns exhibitted by the chromospheric lines ( see fig  [ fig : profs ] ) .",
    "for this reason , the red and blue magnetograms represented in fig  [ fig : maps ] are different .    a sample of the slit spectra recorded by spinor is presented in fig  [ fig : profs ] .",
    "the data in the figure are from a scan of noaa  0635 observed on june  19 at 14:08  ut . the problems with the pluto camera computer had been solved during the previous days , allowing us to record data at 1083  nm .",
    "the signal - to - noise ratio is quite poor due to 1 ) the low polarimetric efficiency discussed above , and 2 ) especially to the low quantum efficiency of the camera at this wavelength ( @xmath83% ) ( these issues were addressed in the subsequent may 2005 run by using the new achromatic modulator and the rockwell detector ) .",
    "the 1083  nm data displayed in the figure have been binned in the scanning direction over a 1.5  interval .",
    "the 849.8 and 854.2  nm data are unbinned ( 0.22  ) .",
    "a second observing campaign was recently conducted on may 2005 , intended to characterize and demonstrate the capabilities of spinor beyond 1  @xmath1 m with the infrared rockwell camera . in this campaign we carried out observations up to 1565  nm . a sample of such observations after our preliminary analysis is presented in fig  [ fig : profsir ] .",
    "this paper presents a detailed description and some initial results from first - light observations with spinor , a new facility instrument for the dst .",
    "we perceive an urgent demand in the solar community for a new experiment - oriented ( as opposed to specialized ) spectro - polarimeter .",
    "we expect that spinor will fulfill this need and remain at the cutting - edge of solar research at least until the construction of the advanced technology solar telescope ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "its broad wavelength coverage will provide a uniquely connected view of photospheric and chromospheric magnetism .",
    "the observations presented in the present paper are intended to emphasize this point and to demonstrate the capabilities of the instrument in the near infrared .",
    "future work will focus on the implementation of a new control system .",
    "spinor is currently being operated from the asp control computer , which sends strobe signals to both asp cameras and up to four other `` external '' detectors .",
    "the new control system , which is expected to be implemented by the end of 2006 , will be more user - friendly and take advantage of the virtual camera interface currently under development by nso for the dst .    as with the asp , researchers from national and foreign institutions will be able to access the new instrument through the usual time allocation competition for the dunn solar telescope , operated by nso .",
    "the authors wish to acknowledge the enthusiastic support from the nso staff at the sacramento peak observatory , especially d. gilliam , m. bradford and j. elrod .",
    "thanks are also due to s. gregory , r. dunbar , t. spence , s. fletcher , c. berst and w. jones .    , r. and a. l ' opez ariste : 2003 , ` ' . in : _",
    "solar polarization , asp conference series , held sep  3rd - oct  4th 2002 at puerto de la cruz , tenerife , spain . edited by j. trujillo bueno and j. s ' anchez almeida .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , 2003 .",
    "_ in press_.                        , b.  w. , d.  f. elmore , and k.  v. streander : 2001 , `` ` the solar - b spectro - polarimeter ' '' . in : m.",
    "sigwarth ( ed . ) : _ `` advanced solar polarimetry  theory , observation , and instrumentation '' _ , vol .",
    "236 of _ asp conf .",
    "_ p.  33 .",
    ", r. and j. trujillo bueno : 2001 , ` modeling the scattering line polarization of the ca ii infrared triplet ' . in : _ asp conf .",
    "ser . 236 : advanced solar polarimetry  theory , observation , and instrumentation_. p. 213 .                ,",
    "k. , d.  f. elmore , b.  w. lites , m. sigwarth , t.  r. rimmele , s.  l. hegwer , s. gregory , k.  v. streander , l.  m. wilkins , k. richards , and c. berst : 2003 , ` diffraction limited spectro - polarimeter - phase i ' . in : _ polarimetry in astronomy .",
    "edited by silvano fineschi .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4843 , pp .",
    "414 - 424 ( 2003 ) .",
    "_ pp . 414424 .          , h. : 2002 , ` zeeman diagnostics of solar magnetic fields ' . in : _",
    "solmag 2002 .",
    "proceedings of the magnetic coupling of the solar atmosphere euroconference and iau colloquium 188 , 11 - 15 june 2002 , santorini , greece . ed . h. sawaya - lacoste .",
    "esa sp-505 .",
    "noordwijk , netherlands : esa publications division , isbn 92 - 9092 - 815 - 8 , 2002 , p. 45 - 51_.",
    "p.  45 .",
    ", h. : 2003 , ` small - scale magnetic fields in the quiet sun ' . in : _ solar polarization , asp conference series , held sep  3rd - oct  4th 2002 at puerto de la cruz , tenerife , spain . edited by j. trujillo bueno and j. s ' anchez almeida .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , vol 307_. p. 330 .                  , s.  k. , w. curdt , a. gandorfer , m. sch \" ussler , b.  w. lites , v. martinez pillet , w. schmidt , a.  m. title , and the sunrise team : 2003 , ` sunrise : balloon - borne high - resolution observation of the sun ' . , 113+ ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> spinor is a new spectro - polarimeter that will serve as a facility instrument for the dunn solar telescope at the national solar observatory . </S>",
    "<S> this instrument is capable of achromatic polarimetry over a very broad range of wavelengths , from 430 up to 1600  nm , allowing for the simultaneous observation of several visible and infrared spectral regions with full stokes polarimetry . </S>",
    "<S> another key feature of the design is its flexibility to observe virtually any combination of spectral lines , limited only by practical considerations ( e.g. , the number of detectors available , space on the optical bench , etc ) . </S>"
  ]
}