{
  "article_text": [
    "recent years have seen a growing realization that the cores of rich galaxy clusters are complex and dynamic environments . in particular , it is becoming clear that the radio - loud active galactic nuclei ( agn ) often hosted by the cd galaxies in rich clusters can have a major influence on the hydrodynamics and thermodynamics of the core regions of the intracluster medium ( icm ) . as we discuss below , the rich datasets coming from the _ chandra x - ray observatory _ and _ xmm - newton _ now demand theoretical models that go beyond the simple picture of jet - blown `` bubbles '' rising in a static icm described by ideal hydrodynamics .",
    "bulk icm motions ( including turbulence ) , magnetohydrodynamics ( mhd ) , thermal conductivity , and viscosity may all be relevant to data that are currently being taken .    even before the launches of _ chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ , _ einstein _ and _ rosat _ studies revealed prominent radio - galaxy / cluster interactions in three clusters ; perseus - a ( bhringer et al .",
    "1993 ; heinz , reynolds & begelman 1998 ) , virgo - a ( feigelson et al .",
    "1987 ; bringer et al . 1995 ) and cygnus - a ( carilli , perley & harris 1994 ; harris , carilli & perley 1994 ) .",
    "_ rosat _ showed perseus - a and cygnus - a to possess intracluster medium ( icm ) cavities coincident with the prominent radio - lobes in these two sources , suggesting supersonic inflation of a bubble in the icm by the jetted agn ( clarke , harris & carilli 1997 ) .",
    "virgo - a , on the other hand , showed a cooler ( and soft x - ray brighter ) region of icm associated with the outer eastern `` ear '' seen in low - frequency radio maps of virgo - a ( owen , eilek & kassim 2000 ) .",
    "it was first suggested by bhringer et al .",
    "( 1995 ) that this phenomenon might be caused by lower entropy gas from the cluster center being dragged upwards in the icm atmosphere by a buoyantly rising radio - lobe .",
    "more recent observations by _ chandra _ and _ xmm - newton _ show that radio - galaxy induced icm substructure is surprisingly ubiquitous and complex .",
    "the basic results described above , i.e. , the existence of icm cavities associated with active radio - lobes and the presence of cool material that appears to lie in the wake of old , buoyantly rising radio - lobes , have been confirmed in numerous systems ( e.g. , hydra - a ; mcnamara et al . 2000 , abell  2052 ; blanton et al .",
    "2001 , virgo - a ; young , wilson & mundell 2002 , perseus - a ; fabian et al .",
    "2000 , 2003a ) .",
    "however , these new data have raised several mysteries and are increasingly at odds with simple models for radio - galaxy / icm interactions .",
    "firstly , in any ideal hydrodynamic model , the cavities must be inflated supersonically or else they would be destroyed by rayleigh - taylor ( rt ) instabilities faster than they are inflated .",
    "curiously , the strong and hot icm shocks that one expects to find around the active cavities are notably absent ; instead , many icm cavities are surrounded by icm shells that are _ cooler _ than the ambient icm",
    ". we shall refer to this as the `` shock problem '' .",
    "secondly , icm cavities that are not associated with any obvious radio - lobe ( `` ghost cavities '' ) have been discovered .",
    "examples are found in the perseus cluster ( fabian et al .",
    "2003a ) , abell  2597 ( mcnamara et al .",
    "2001 ) , and abell  4059 ( heinz et al .",
    "2002 , choi et al . 2004 ) . in some cases , ghost cavities are coincident with regions of low - frequency ( 74mhz ) radio emission supporting the hypothesis that they correspond to old radio - lobes from previous and now extinct agn outbursts ( fabian et al . 2002a ) .",
    "interestingly , as we will explicitly demonstrate in this paper , ideal hydrodynamic models fail to reproduce the observed morphology of at least some ghost cavities .",
    "finally , most clusters have been found to possess a `` temperature - floor '' in the sense that the radiative cooling of the icm appears not to proceed below temperatures of @xmath2 ( tamura et al .",
    "2001 ; peterson et al . 2001 ) .",
    "again , no clear explanation for this fact is provided by an ideal hydrodynamic model .",
    "brggen & kaiser ( 2002 ) suggest that stirring of the icm core by a central radio galaxy may be responsible for the temperature floor ; however , such a scenario only postpones rather than prevents radiative cooling , and is hard to reconcile with the strong metallicity gradients observed in the cores of some clusters ( david et al .",
    "2001 , matsushita et al . 2002 ; sanders & fabian 2002 ) .",
    "this has led several authors ( narayan & medvedev 2001 ; fabian et al .",
    "2002b ; voigt et al .",
    "2002 ; kim & narayan 2003 ) to resurrect the notion that thermal conduction may be important in determining the thermodynamics of icm cores .",
    "faced with the multiple failures of simple hydrodynamic models for cluster cores , we must carefully examine the other physical processes that might be relevant .",
    "both the dynamical and thermodynamical effects of magnetic fields are largely unexplored and are the subject of on - going large - scale simulations .",
    "however , the qualitative success of models including thermal conduction in solving the temperature floor problem begs a study of other transport processes and , in particular , the effects of shear viscosity on the dynamics of a radio - galaxy / icm interaction .",
    "perseus - a and the core of the perseus cluster continues to be one of the best studied examples of a rich cluster core and a complex radio - galaxy / cluster interaction .",
    "the most detailed x - ray investigation to date , based on a deep ( 200ks ) observation by _ chandra_/acis - s , has been presented by fabian et al .",
    "( 2003a ) .",
    "these authors report the discovery of wave - like disturbances in the icm on spatial scales of @xmath3 , approximately twice the spatial scales of the most obvious ghost cavity to the north - west of perseus - a .",
    "they discuss a scenario in which viscous dissipation of these disturbances may act as a significant heat source for the icm core .",
    "it is shown that , provided viscosity operates reasonably close to its ideal unmagnetized value , it is possible for viscous dissipation of radio - galaxy induced disturbances to balance radiative cooling of the icm .",
    "this suggestion has been supported by recent simulation work by ruszkowski , brggen & begelman ( 2003 )",
    ". circumstantial evidence for the presence of significant icm viscosity is also provided by an examination of the morphology of h@xmath1 filaments .",
    "several of the filaments appear to trace well - defined arcs in the region below the ghost cavity ( fig .",
    "[ fig : perseus ] ; also see fabian 2003b ) .",
    "this argues against the presence of strong turbulence in the icm core , possibly resulting from the action of viscosity .",
    "if we make the stronger presumption that the h@xmath1 filaments follow streamlines in the icm , the morphology of the filaments suggests the existence of a vortex ring within the icm just below the nw ghost cavity .    with this background and motivation",
    ", this paper presents hydrodynamic simulations of the buoyant evolution of an agn - blown cavity in a viscous icm . in order to bring clarity to the discussion of such a complex system",
    ", this paper deals with the focused question of how icm viscosity effects the observed morphology and associated flow patterns of old ( ghost ) cavities .",
    "detailed investigations of the effects of viscosity on the growth of active cavities and the thermodynamic state of the icm will be addresses in future work .",
    "section  2 reviews the importance of viscosity in typical clusters , and touches upon the robustness of viscosity in the presence of magnetic fields .",
    "section  3 describes the basic set - up of our simulations , as well as our results on the morphology and flow patterns .",
    "section  4 discusses some of the limitations of this work , and possible implications of icm viscosity .",
    "finally , conclusions are presented in section  5 .",
    "before discussing simulations of viscous systems , we shall address in brief the general issue of viscosity in the icm .",
    "initially suppose that the icm can be described as a thermal fully - ionized plasma which is unmagnetized .",
    "the relevant coefficient of viscosity is given by braginskii ( 1958 ) and spitzer ( 1962 ) as @xmath4 where @xmath5 is the temperature of the plasma measured in kelvin and @xmath6 is a coulomb integral .",
    "scaling to a temperature of @xmath7 and using @xmath8 gives @xmath9 .",
    "it is customary to measure the importance of viscosity in a fluid of density @xmath10 through the reynolds number , @xmath11 , where @xmath12 and @xmath13 are characteristic velocities and length scales of the system and @xmath14 . of course",
    ", in a complicated system such as a radio - galaxy / icm interaction , there is no unique velocity and length scale and so it is not possible to define a universal reynolds numbers that characterizes the system .",
    "however , provided one uses some consistent choice for @xmath12 and @xmath13 , the reynolds number is still useful as a means to parameterize the relative importance of viscosity between different agn / icm systems",
    ". it also allows a means of matching the viscosity imposed in simulations with that expected in real systems .",
    "we choose the maximum dimension of the bubble as our characteristic length scale , and half of the adiabatic sound speed ( i.e. a typical buoyancy - induced rise velocity ) as our characteristic velocity . scaled to the nw ghost cavity of the perseus cluster ( with number density @xmath15 , and @xmath16 which gives @xmath17 ) , gives a reynolds number of @xmath18 we note that this reynolds number is almost an order of magnitude smaller than the fiducial value of @xmath19 quoted by robinson et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , primarily due to our higher ( and more realistic ) fiducial temperature .",
    "thus , restating the conclusion of fabian et al .",
    "( 2003a ) , viscosity may be relevant to the evolution of an agn induced bubble in the icm .",
    "the major uncertainty is the effect that magnetic fields have on the macroscopic viscosity .",
    "the case of a uniform field is readily analyzed ( spitzer 1962 ) .",
    "the proton gyro - radius corresponding to any non - negligible magnetic field is very small , leading to extremely efficient suppression of the local coefficient of viscosity perpendicular to the magnetic field ; for typical icm conditions , the perpendicular coefficient of viscosity is suppressed by the enormous factor of @xmath20 ( spitzer 1962 ) .",
    "however , the effective macroscopic viscosity in the case of a realistic magnetic field configuration ( which is almost certainly tangled , and may be chaotic ) is an open question .",
    "a similar issue has recently been addressed in the context of thermal conduction . in that case , the local thermal conductivity is also suppressed by a very large factor perpendicular to the field .",
    "however , the exponential divergence of neighbouring field lines in a chaotic field structure results in an effective thermal conductivity , @xmath21 , that is suppressed below the unmagnetized value , @xmath22 by only a factor of @xmath23 ( depending on the spectrum of fluctuations in the field structure ; narayan & medvedev 2001 ) .",
    "while the tensorial nature of the viscous stress tensor prevents a precise mapping of the two problems , similar arguments may apply and we might expect the effective coefficient of viscosity to be suppressed below the unmagnetized value by some factor ranging from @xmath24 to unity .    clearly , the effective thermal conductivity and viscosity characterizing the icm is still very much an open theoretical question , due to uncertainties in both the basic physics of transport processes in hot plasmas as well as the magnetic field structure present in the icm . to make progress",
    "we must _ assume _ that certain conditions exist , compute the consequences for radio - galaxy / icm interactions , and compare with the recent observations .",
    "this is the motivation for the rest of this paper . while the evidence for non - negligible icm viscosity is still circumstantial ,",
    "we show that the action of such a viscosity allows the morphology of ghost cavities ( in particular , the nw ghost cavity in perseus - a ) to be reproduced , and may be an important mechanism for stabilizing the icm core against radiative losses .",
    "our goal is to study the evolution of a buoyant radio lobe in the icm of a galaxy cluster , including the effects of kinematic viscosity . following the approach of bruggen & kaiser ( 2001 ) ,",
    "we simulate only the phase of the evolution after the radio - loud agn has inflated a low - density bubble which has expanded to achieve pressure equilibrium with the icm . at some point during this process",
    ", the agn activity is assumed to cease .",
    "thus , our simulation follows the evolution of a low - density bubble , initially in pressure equilibrium , placed in the central regions of an icm atmosphere .    even though real radio lobes will have rapid and complex internal flows ( induced by the agn jet during their inflation )",
    ", we shall assume that both the icm and the bubble interior are initially static .",
    "we stress that this is an important simplification in our models and must be kept in mind when interpreting the results . for example",
    ", our calculations will not be meaningful for addressing the issue of shocks and sound waves driven into the icm by the radio - galaxy , since these phenomena are almost certainly dominated by the jet - driven inflation phase of the bubble which we are not modeling .",
    "furthermore , the precise growth rates of the rt and kelvin - helmholtz ( kh ) will be influenced by the internal motions within the bubble left over from its inflation phase .",
    "however , our set - up allows a qualitative investigation of the hydrodynamics of buoyantly rising icm bubbles .",
    "our detailed set - up is as follows .",
    "the undisturbed icm atmosphere is given a density profile described by @xmath25^{-0.75}$ ] , where we choose units of mass and length such that @xmath26 and @xmath27 .",
    "this atmosphere is assumed to be initially static and isothermal , with an adiabatic sound speed of @xmath28 .",
    "the gravitational potential , @xmath29 , is assumed to be dominated by dark matter and , hence , is assumed to be fixed throughout the simulation .",
    "this gravitational potential is determined by the condition that the initial icm atmosphere is in hydrostatic equilibrium , @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is the pressure . in this icm atmosphere",
    ", we carve out a spherical bubble with density @xmath32 and radius @xmath33 .",
    "this bubble is displaced from the center of the icm atmosphere by @xmath34 ( i.e. , the boundary of the bubble touches the center of the icm atmosphere ) .",
    "the initial pressure of the bubble is set equal to the initial icm pressure at that radius ( i.e. , this is a hot , low - density bubble is in local pressure equilibrium with the icm ) .",
    "we note that this is a very simplified form for the cluster density profile and gravitational potential .",
    "however , we feel that a more sophisticated cluster profile ( e.g. , using a navarro , frenk & white [ 1997 ] profile , and including the potential of the cd galaxy ) would be unwarranted for the qualitative nature of the current investigation .",
    "this initial state is evolved using the equations of 3-dimensional viscous hydrodynamics , @xmath35 where @xmath36 is the velocity field , @xmath37 is the internal energy density , and @xmath38 is the viscous stress tensor , @xmath39 note that we only include `` pdv '' and viscous dissipation terms in the energy equation , eqn .  4 . in particular , we neglect the radiative cooling which is unlikely to be relevant for the dynamical timescale processes modeled here .",
    "these equations are solved using the zeus - mp mhd code ( stone & norman 1992a , 1992b ) , operating in cartesian co - ordinates @xmath40 .",
    "zeus is a fixed - grid , time - explicit eulerian code which uses an artificial viscosity to handle shocks . when operated using van leer advection , as in this work , it is formally of second order spatial accuracy .",
    "we model one half of the icm atmosphere using a simulation volume of a cubic box of length @xmath41 on a side .",
    "the cluster center ( @xmath42 ) is placed in the center of one face of this cube , and reflecting boundary conditions are imposed on this face in order to account for the unmodelled half of the atmosphere .",
    "outflow boundary conditions are imposed on all other faces .",
    "the effects of viscosity are introduced into the basic zeus - mp code by adding explicit source terms to the momentum and energy equations ( eqns . 4 and 5 , respectively ) .",
    "to ensure numerical stability , the time - step on which the equations were evolved was constrained to be @xmath43 where @xmath44 is the usual cfl timestep and @xmath45\\ ] ] is the relevant viscous timestep . in this last expression , @xmath46 is the size of a grid cell in the @xmath47-th direction , and the minimization occurs over all grid cells .",
    "on the basis of a standard stability analysis , we choose @xmath48 .",
    ".basic information for the set of simulations presented in this paper .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in real systems , the interior of the icm cavities is filled with extremely tenuous and strongly magnetized relativistic plasma ; the coefficient of viscosity of this material is likely to be negligible .",
    "however , our ( one - fluid ) simulations model these structures simply as bubbles of very hot gas ( with initial conditions of @xmath49 ) . if we were to include the temperature dependence of @xmath50 in our calculations ( eqn .",
    "[ eq : mu ] ) , the coefficient of viscosity inside the bubble would be three orders of magnitude greater than in the ambient icm .",
    "this is unphysical .",
    "we address this problem by fixing @xmath50 to be constant in both space and time throughout a given simulation .",
    "this choice suppresses the viscosity of the simulated hot gas inside the bubble .",
    "we note that this method avoids the need to artificially truncate the viscosity within the bubble ( e.g. , see ruszkowski , brggen & begelman 2004 ) , leading to greater robustness and numerical stability .",
    "we have , however , performed additional simulations in which we do truncate the viscosity within the bubble ( using a density threshold ) in order to assess the impact of this assumption .",
    "comparing those simulations with the ones presented in this paper , we confirmed that the dynamics of the buoyant bubble considered here are not qualitatively effected by the constant @xmath50 assumption .    using the same definition as section  [ sec : viscosity ] ,",
    "the reynolds number characterizing the hydrodynamics of the simulated bubble is @xmath51 where @xmath52 and @xmath13 are the characteristic velocity and size , respectively , of the bubble .",
    "we perform a set of simulations to explore a range of reynolds numbers ; see table  1 for details of the runs performed .",
    "initially we discuss the results from our zero - viscosity ( @xmath53 ) simulations .",
    "these will serve as a crucial comparison for understanding the viscous simulations that we shall discuss next .",
    "our qualitative simulation setup and results are very similar to those previously obtained by churazov et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , brggen & kaiser ( 2001 , 2002 ) , brggen et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and robinson et al .",
    "of course , it is important to realize that even in this @xmath53 cases , the action of numerical diffusion keeps the effective reynolds number finite .",
    "we determine the effective reynolds number of these `` zero - viscosity '' cases by performing additional simulations with small values of @xmath50 and visually comparing the smallest scale structures resulting from the @xmath53 run .",
    "this exercise suggests that the effective reynolds numbers of our @xmath53 simulations are in the range 20005000 .",
    "the initially static bubble starts accelerating due to buoyancy . as noted by several previous authors , rt instabilities",
    "induce circulatory motions within the bubbles , that then induce `` secondary '' kh instabilities along the contact discontinuity between the low - density bubble and ambient icm .",
    "these kh instabilities are primarily responsible for shredding the bubble within 23 time units ( i.e. @xmath54 sound crossing times of the bubble ; top - panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : novisc ] ) . due to the shredding of the bubble",
    ", one never observes a detached and flattened but otherwise intact structure such as we appear to see in the ghost cavity of perseus - a ( see bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : novisc ] ) .    to further facilitate comparison with observations ,",
    "we produce simulated x - ray surface brightness maps . in detail",
    ", we set the local x - ray emissivity to be proportional to @xmath55 and integrate along lines of sight through the simulation volume in order to build up a 2-dimensional map of x - ray surface brightness .",
    "for definiteness , we show surface brightness maps for the case in which the observer is viewing along the @xmath56-direction ( i.e. , the line joining the center of the icm atmosphere and the center of the initial bubble is perpendicular to the observers line of sight ) . from these maps , it can be seen that the observed cavity never has the appearance of the perseus - a ghost cavity ( fig .",
    "[ fig : novisc ] ; lower panels ) .",
    "in addition to morphological problems , we note that zero - viscosity models does not reproduce the h@xmath1-deduced flow pattern . at early times , while the buoyant bubble is still reasonably intact , we never see a circulatory flow pattern below the bubble . at late times , the buoyant bubble loses integrity and induces complex and disorganized motions in the icm .",
    "having described the inviscid `` control '' case , we now proceed to discuss the effect of viscosity on the buoyant evolution of radio - lobes . as in the inviscid case ,",
    "the evolution is driven by the joint action of buoyancy and secondary kh instabilities .",
    "however , unlike the inviscid case where kt instabilities operate at the contact discontinuity on spatial scales down to the grid scale , viscosity suppresses the kh instability on small spatial scales .",
    "this has a profound effect on the evolution of the bubble ; even a moderate amount of viscosity can prevent the shredding of the bubble , which can subsequently float out of the core being rather flattened but otherwise intact .    as a specific example , fig .",
    "[ fig : mu002 ] shows the @xmath57 ( run  3 ) .",
    "this can be considered a model of the ghost cavities around perseus - a if the icm possesses a coefficient of viscosity of @xmath58 . as discussed in section  [ sec : viscosity ] , this level of viscosity may be plausible even in the presence of tangled , chaotic magnetic fields .",
    "it can be seen from the mid - plane density and velocity fields ( fig .",
    "[ fig : mu002 ] ; upper panels ) that the evolution of the bubble is driven by buoyancy , with secondary kh instabilities largely unable to overcome the action of the viscosity .",
    "as the bubble floats upwards , it flattens into a broad cap .",
    "the surface brightness maps associated with run  3 ( fig .  [ fig : mu002 ] ; lower panels ) show that one does , indeed , produce a detached and flattened cavity in the icm emission as observed in the perseus cluster .",
    "figure  [ fig : visc_range ] shows results for the full range of viscosity explored in this paper at three fixed times ( @xmath59 ) .",
    "it can be seen that the formation of an flattened but intact buoyant bubble occurs in all of our viscous simulations . however , the timescale on which the evolution proceeds is a strong function of the viscosity .",
    "for example , the @xmath60 density slice of run  2 ( @xmath61 ) is very similar to the @xmath62 slice of run  6 ( @xmath63 ) .",
    "this fact may point to a solution of the `` shock problem '' noted in the introduction , an issue that we shall return to in section  [ sec : shock ] .",
    "viscosity also has important implications for the flow pattern in the disturbed icm . in principle",
    ", the presence of viscosity can facilitate the development of large scale vortex rings in the trailing region beneath the rising bubble .",
    "this phenomena is seen for our highest viscosity cases .",
    "for the levels of viscosity that are probably relevant to the perseus cluster ( @xmath64 ) , this effect is not seen .",
    "however , even for these levels of viscosity , our simulations show flow patterns that qualitatively match those inferred from the h@xmath1-filament geometry in perseus . in these cases ,",
    "the flattened buoyant bubble undergoes a minor fragmentation due to the action of secondary kh instabilities . as a result of this fragmentation",
    ", a small torus of radio plasma is left in the trailing region behind the main buoyant bubble .",
    "the simulations show a strong icm circulation around this trailing torus , producing a streamlines that resemble the h@xmath1 filament geometry in perseus .",
    "a prediction of this model is that sufficiently sensitive x - ray maps should reveal subtle depressions at the center of these vortices , and sufficiently sensitive and spatially resolved low - frequency radio maps should reveal a corresponding torus of aged radio plasma .",
    "an important consequence of icm viscosity is that it provides an explicit mechanism by which the radio - galaxy induced disturbance can heat the icm . while a full treatment of viscous icm heating by radio - galaxies almost certainly requires following the jet - driven inflation of the bubbles ( e.g. , reynolds , heinz & begelman 2002 ) , as well as multiple epochs of activity ( ruzskowski , brggen & begelman 2004 ) , it is instructive to compute the viscous dissipation rate in our idealized simulation .",
    "figure  [ fig : dissipation ] shows the dissipation rate as a function of time for our canonical `` perseus - like '' model , the @xmath57 case .",
    "the dissipation rate and the time coordinate are given in physical units assuming parameters relevant to the perseus cluster ( see caption of fig .",
    "[ fig : dissipation ] ) .",
    "the dissipation rate dispays two peaks .",
    "the rather broad peak centered at about 90myr coincides with the secondary kh instability entering the strongly non - linear regime , and the subsequent `` folding '' of the flattened bubble .",
    "the second and rather sharp peak corresponds to the venting of material out of the boundary of the simulation and , hence , should not be considered physical . in general , the dissipated power achieves the rather modest levels of @xmath65 .",
    "however , this heat source continues to operate for a period of about 200myr , an order of magnitude more than the plausible recurrence timescale of the radio - galaxy activity ( fabian et al .",
    "thus , the possibility of balancing the radiative losses with viscous dissipation from the combined effect of many bubbles remains open .",
    "furthermore , it is likely that the dissipation of the fluid modes driven by the initial inflation of the bubble ( and hence not modelled here ) will deliver just as much energy , if not more , than the viscous dissipation during the buoyant phase .",
    "our simulations must be viewed as a rather limited toy model for the buoyant evolution of radio - lobes and the formation of ghost cavities .",
    "we have employed two major simplifications .",
    "firstly , we have not modeled the jet - driven inflation of the bubble . real examples of these radio - lobes will possess complex , jet - driven flows with speeds much in excess of the icm sound speed , and will never resemble the static bubbles that we use for our initial conditions ( reynolds , heinz & begelman 2002 ) .",
    "consequently , the kh instability will be important at all stages in the life of the bubble , and does not need to wait for the rt instability to first induce bulk flows .    secondly , we have neglected the effects of magnetic field .",
    "it is expected that fields within the radio plasma could readily achieve equipartition strengths and hence have an important effect on the dynamics of the rising bubble . in particular , magnetic fields will influence the development of both the rt and the kh instability at the contact discontinuity .",
    "the effect of magnetic fields on the buoyant evolution of icm bubbles has recently been addressed in the context of inviscid hydrodynamics by brggen & kaiser ( 2001 ) , robinson et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and de young ( 2003 ) .",
    "their results suggest that magnetic fields can have a strongly stabilizing effect on buoyant bubbles , effectively quenching all of the instabilities that distort and eventually shred this structures .",
    "however , both the symmetry of their calculation ( 2-d cartesian ) and their initial magnetic field configuration ( taken from cargill et al .",
    "1996 ) makes the robinson et al .",
    "( 2003 ) calculation most relevant to a buoyantly rising _ cylindrical flux tube with purely toroidal magnetic flux _ , a poor approximation to an agn blown bubble .",
    "the ability of magnetic fields to stabilize or de - stabilize the contact discontinuity is a strong function of the magnetic configuration and field strength ( e.g. , see jun , norman & stone 1995 ) , both of which are open issues in the case of agn - blown bubbles .",
    "clearly further simulations are required to address these two issues .",
    "in fact , it would be most appropriate to treat these as coupled questions .",
    "it is believed that the magnetic field in such bubbles originates from the magnetized agn jets .",
    "thus , we must follow the jet - driven inflation of the bubble in order to produce a reasonable initial field configuration",
    ". this will be the subject a future publication .",
    "in addition to stabilizing buoyant radio - lobes against shredding , we have discussed how viscosity can dramatically slow the evolution of the bubble .",
    "this suggests a natural solution to the `` shock problem '' noted in the introduction . under the action of viscosity",
    ", the agn jets may inflate their icm bubbles subsonically before the buoyancy effects become important .",
    "consequently , the icm can be displaced into a cavity - bounding shell without the need of a strong shock .",
    "the thermal structure of this gas will be determined by the action of compression ( due to its displacement from the cavity ) , decompression ( due to the fact that this material will typically be lifted to a higher level in the icm atmosphere ) , viscous dissipation , and radiative cooling .",
    "one can envisage a scenario in which the rather slow evolution of the radio - lobe in a viscous icm allows the shell of displaced icm to radiatively cool by an appreciable amount .",
    "further simulations of the inflation stage of these bubbles are required to assess whether the rather cool cavity - bounding shells observed in per - a can be reproduced within the context of this model . given the strong temperature dependence of the coefficient of viscosity ( eqn .",
    "1 ) , we might expect significant changes in the effective viscosity between the various icm structures defining the system ( i.e. , the ambient material , the cool rims and the shocks , if any ) .",
    "thus , it will be important to move beyond the constant @xmath50 assumption in these next generation of simulations .",
    "the true role of kinematic viscosity in icm / radio - galaxy interactions remains unclear , primarily due to the great uncertainty associated with magnetic suppression of spitzer - type transport processes in the plasma .",
    "however , in stark contrast to the inviscid models , our models of bubble evolution in modestly viscous icm can reproduce both the morphology and inferred flow patterns seen around the best studied of the ghost icm cavities , the nw cavity in perseus - a .",
    "the principal effect of viscosity is to stabilize the bubble against both rt and kh instabilities , thereby allowing it to remain intact as it floats upwards in the icm atmosphere .",
    "the flattening of such bubbles as they rise is a natural explanation for the elongated morphology of the nw cavity in perseus - a .",
    "the `` smoke - ring '' like flow pattern below the nw cavity inferred from the morphology of the h@xmath1 filaments can then arise due to minor fragmentation of the rising bubble ( leading to a trailing torus ) or genuine vortex shedding .",
    "if the icm is indeed viscous at the level treated by our models , the subsequent slowing of the evolution timescales for icm / radio - galaxy interactions may be the solution to the `` shock problem '' , i.e. the lack of strong shocks bounding the icm cavities that are associated with active radio - lobes . in this scenario",
    ", radio galaxies such as per - a would be rather less powerful than previously thought ( heinz , reynolds & begelman 1998 ) , inflating their associated icm bubbles subsonically .",
    "if the evolution is sufficiently slow , radiative cooling might allow the icm shell surrounding the cavity to cool , again in agreement with chandra observations of perseus - a .    ultimately , disentangling the effects of transport processes ( viscosity and thermal conduction ) and magnetic fields will require further simulation work coupled with detailed observations . on the theoretical side , it is important to initiate a new generation of simulations which incorporate full mhd _ as well as _ transport processes .",
    "qualitatively new and rich dynamics becomes possible upon the inclusion of transport processes within mhd .",
    "for example , balbus ( 2000 ) discovered the `` magnetothermal instability '' which occurs in any mhd atmosphere with a temperature profile that decreases with height provided there is thermal conduction along the magnetic field lines . in addition , the viscous transport coefficients will be anisotropic in the presence of a magnetic field , and this may lead to yet further complexity in the dynamics .",
    "such instabilities could well be crucial for understanding the dynamics of radio - galaxy / icm interactions .",
    "observationally , deep ( megasecond ) _ chandra _ observations of the nearest radio - galaxy / cluster interactions might allow detailed imaging spectroscopy of fluid instabilities associated with the radio - galaxy / icm interaction . furthermore , upon the launch of _ astro - e2 _ in 2005 , we will be able to directly probe turbulent velocities within the icm of nearby ( bright ) clusters through broadening of their x - ray emission lines . with the caveat that full mhd viscous simulations have yet to be done ,",
    "the presence or absence of turbulence in the icm , especially in regions well separated from potential driving sources ( such as agn or merging subclusters ) could be an important indicator of the presence of viscosity .",
    "we thank cole miller and eve ostriker for stimulating conversations conducted throughout the course of this work . we gratefully acknowledge support from the national science foundation under grant ast0205990 ( csr ) , the _ chandra _ cycle-5 theory & modelling program under grant tm4 - 5007x , and the royal society ( acf ) .",
    "all simulations presented in this paper were performed on the beowulf cluster in the department of astronomy at the university of maryland , kindly administered by derek  richardson .",
    "balbus s.a . ,",
    "2000 , apj , 534 , 420 blanton e.l . ,",
    "sarazin c.l . ,",
    "mcnamara b.r . , wise m.w . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 558 , l15 bhringer h. , nulsen p.e.j . , braun r. , fabian a.c . , bhringer h. , voges w. , fabian a.c . , edge a.c . ,",
    "neumann d.m . , 1993 , mnras , 264 , l25 braginskii s.l . , 1958 ,",
    "jetp , 6 , 358 brggen m. , kaiser c.r . , 2001 , mnras , 325 , 676 brggen m. , kaiser c.r . , 2002 , nat , 418 , 301 brggen m. , kaiser c.r . ,",
    "churazov e. , enssline t.a . , 2002 , mnras , 331 , 545 cargill p.j . , chen j. , spicer d.s .",
    ", zalesak s.t . , 1996 ,",
    "jgr , 101 , 4855 carilli c.l . ,",
    "perley r.a . ,",
    "harris d.e .",
    ", 1994 , mnras , 270 , 173 choi y.y . , reynolds c.s . , heinz s. , rosenberg j.l . , perlman e.s .",
    ", yang j. , 2004 , apj , in press churazov e. , brggen m. , kaiser c.r . , bhinger h. , forman w. , 2001 , apj , 554 , 261 clarke d.a . , harris d.e . , carilli c.l . , 1997 , mnras , 284 , 981 david l.  r. et al . , 2001 , apj , 557 , 546 de young d.s . , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 719 fabian a.c .",
    "2000 , mnras , 318 , l65 fabian a.c .",
    ", celotti a. , blundell k.m . ,",
    "kassim n.e . ,",
    "perley r.a . , 2002a , mnras , 331 , 369 fabian a.c . , voigt l.m",
    ", morris r.g . , 2002b , mnras , 335 , l71 fabian a.c .",
    "et al . , 2003a , mnras , 344 , l43 fabian a.c . , sanders j.s . , crawford c.s . , conselice c.j . , gallagher j.s . , wyse r.f.g . , 2003b , 344 , l48 feigelson e. , wood p.a.d . , schreier e.j . ,",
    "harris d.e . ,",
    "reid m.j . , 1987 , apj , 312 , 101 harris d.e . , carilli c.l .",
    ", perley r.a . , 1994 , nat , 367 , 713 heinz s. , reynolds c.s . , begelman m.c . , 1998 , apj , 501 , 126 heinz s. , choi y.y .",
    ", reynolds c.s . ,",
    "begelman m.c . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 569 , l79 jun b. , norman m.l . ,",
    "stone j.m . , 1995 , apj , 453 , 332 matsushita k. , belsole e. , finoguenov a. , bhringer h. , 2002 , a&a , 386 , 77 mcnamara b.r .",
    "et al . , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 534 , l135 mcnamara b.r .",
    "et al . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 562 , l149 narayan r. , medvedev m.v . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 562 , l129 navarro j.f . ,",
    "frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m . , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 owen f.n .",
    ", eilek j.a . , kassim n.e . , 2000 , apj , 543 , 611 peterson j.  a. et al . , 2001 , a&a , 365 , 104 reynolds c.s . , heinz s. , begelman m.c . , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 271 robinson k. et al . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , in press ( astro - ph/0310517 ) ruszkowski m. , brggen , begelman m.c . , 2004 , apj , 611 , 158 spitzer l. , 1962 , the physics of fully ionized gases , interscience publishers , new york ( second edition ) .",
    "stone j.  m. , norman m.  l. , 1992a , apjs , 80 , 791 stone j.  m. , norman m.  l. , 1992b , apjs , 80 , 81 tamura t. et al . , 2001 , a&a , 365 , l87 voigt l.m . ,",
    "schmidt r.w .",
    ", fabian a.c . , allen s.w .",
    ", johnstone r.m . , 2002 , mnras , 335 , l7 young a.j .",
    ", wilson a.s . ,",
    "mundell c.g . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 579 , 560"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> ideal hydrodynamic models of the intracluster medium ( icm ) in the core regions of galaxy clusters fail to explain both the observed temperature structure of this gas , and the observed morphology of radio - galaxy / icm interactions . </S>",
    "<S> it has recently been suggested that , even in the presence of reasonable magnetic fields , thermal conduction in the icm may be crucial for reproducing the temperature floor seen in many systems . </S>",
    "<S> if this is indeed correct , it raises the possibility that other transport processes may be important . with this motivation </S>",
    "<S> , we present a numerical investigation of the buoyant evolution of agn - blown cavities in icm that has a non - negligible shear viscosity . </S>",
    "<S> we use the zeus - mp code to follow the 3-dimensional evolution of an initially static , hot bubble in a @xmath0-model icm atmosphere with varying degrees of shear viscosity . with no explicit viscosity </S>",
    "<S> , it is found that the combined action of rayleigh - taylor and kelvin - helmholtz instabilities rapidly shred the icm cavity and one does not reproduce the intact and detached `` ghost cavities '' observed in systems such as perseus - a . on the other hand , even a modest level of shear viscosity ( corresponding to approximately 25% of the spitzer value ) can be important in quenching the fluid instabilities and maintaining the integrity of the bubble . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we show that the morphology of the nw ghost cavity found in perseus - a can be reproduced , as can the flow pattern inferred from the morphology of h@xmath1 filaments . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we discuss the possible relevance of icm viscosity to the fact that many of the active icm cavities ( i.e. , those currently associated with active radio - lobes ) are not bounded by strong shocks , the so - called `` shock problem '' .    </S>",
    "<S> = -1 cm    [ firstpage ]    cooling flows  galaxies : jets  hydrodynamics  radio galaxies  x - rays : galaxies : clusters </S>"
  ]
}