{
  "article_text": [
    "with hst now having been in orbit for over 10 years , we can now combine high resolution images over a sufficiently long baseline to measure proper motions in the nearer globular clusters .",
    "proper motions give us two further components to each star s 6-dimensional phase space coordinate .",
    "when combined with radial velocities and positions , five - sixths of the phase space can be mapped out , leading to greater understanding of the structure and evolution of globular clusters .",
    "radial velocities have been measured for many globular clusters , although the number where there are sufficient measurements for good statistics is still small .",
    "this is , in part , a consequence of the amount of telescope time required to acquire spectra of many stars .",
    "fiber - fed spectrographs such as hydra or 2df go some way to alleviating this problem , but fiber crowding restricts their use in the centers of globular clusters .",
    "fabry - perot techniques use direct imaging to measure radial velocities in more crowded regions , but their spectral resolution and range is limited , and calibration can be difficult .",
    "proper motions , on the other hand , rely only on direct imaging , and fairly short exposures suffice .",
    "the time we are required to wait between exposures to measure a given velocity increases with the distance of the object , but decreases with the telescope s spatial resolution .    at about 4 kpc , ngc  6752  is a good candidate for a proper - motion study .",
    "it is a prominent southern cluster , which has revealed some unusual features in recent years .",
    "it is not clear whether ngc  6752  is truly anomalous in some way , or whether the wealth of observational detail available has uncovered features that are present in many other less well - studied clusters as well",
    ".    exposures of ngc  6752  taken with the hst pointed at the position of the cluster center according to @xcite clearly miss the highest density region by about 10 .",
    "examination of figure 1 of @xcite clearly demonstrates this .",
    "the method shawl & white used is easily misled by bright foreground stars and this appears to be the case here . a bright star some 101  north - west of the cluster may have biased the determination of the center of the cluster ( r. white , 2002 , private communication ) .",
    "instead , we use the center determined by @xcite , which is given only in their pixel coordinates .",
    "we have used the world coordinate system information in the hst frame header to get j2000 equatorial coordinates of @xmath1 this is probably good to better than @xmath2 .",
    "@xcite identify ngc  6752  as a `` post - core - collapse '' globular cluster on the basis of its density profile , which does not fit a king model .",
    "however the profile is also poorly fit by a power law .",
    "furthermore , @xcite have identified a high binary fraction in the core , and dynamical models suggest that a true core - collapse phase can not be achieved until most of the binaries have been `` burned '' @xcite .",
    "interestingly , the binary fraction appears to drop sharply beyond 11  from the cluster center @xcite .",
    "the drop - off is much sharper than would be expected from stars of twice the turnoff mass .",
    "ngc  6752  is among the clusters showing a bimodality in cn abundances on the giant branch @xcite .",
    "it was recently found that in 47  tuc , this bimodality exists on the main sequence itself @xcite .",
    "there is some evidence that this is also the case in ngc  6752  @xcite .",
    "the horizontal branch of ngc  6752  is blue as befits its metallicity ( [ fe / h]@xmath3 ) , but its extent is unusual .",
    "this is one of the clusters where the horizontal branch features an extreme blue tail reaching stars with @xmath4 k @xcite .",
    "the kinematics of the cluster itself are also unusual .",
    "@xcite find it to be the oldest , most metal - poor cluster with a measured space velocity to have disk - like kinematics .",
    "in its kinematics , it is quite similar to 47 tuc despite being much more metal poor . that an old , metal - poor cluster can have the kinematics of the thick disk has interesting implications for the history of the galaxy .",
    "a variety of interesting compact objects has been reported in ngc  6752  .",
    "a recent chandra x - ray study @xcite has identified 19 sources within the half mass radius of the cluster , of which over half are apparently cvs belonging to the cluster .",
    "this contrasts with the results from 47  tuc @xcite in which most of the faint x - ray sources appear to be millisecond pulsars .",
    "however , radio observations have identified five millisecond pulsars in ngc  6752  @xcite .",
    "three of these are close to the center of the cluster , and two of these three have negative period derivatives .",
    "these set lower limits on the gravitational acceleration of the pulsars by the cluster potential .",
    "damico et al . set a lower limit of 10 on the mass - to - light ratio in solar units inside 7 .",
    "this , however , was based on the @xcite center .",
    "more recently , they have also recognized the deviation of the true center from that of @xcite . using a center very close to ours ,",
    "the pulsars lie closer to the center and the new lower - limit on the mass - to - light ratio is 6 in solar units ( a. possenti , 2002 , private communication ) .",
    "this is still greater than what would be suggested by the only previous velocity study of ngc  6752 in which integrated - light spectra by @xcite yielded a central velocity dispersion of 4.5 km s@xmath0 . as we will see below",
    ", we obtain a significantly higher velocity dispersion , so this may not be a problem .    the outermost of the millisecond pulsars is in a @xmath5 day circular binary at least 3.3 half - mass radii ( 8 pc ) away from the cluster center @xcite .",
    "this is an unusual place to find a binary millisecond pulsar , and the circular orbit sets firm limits on how it came to be there . @xcite",
    "argue that the most likely scenario leading to this system s present location is one where the pulsar system is scattered by a binary black hole with total mass of 3 to 100 @xmath6 .",
    "such a binary black hole is probably distinct from any black hole which may form part or all of the dark component implied by the high central mass - to - light ratio .    as noted above",
    ", it is not clear whether these various anomalies mean that ngc  6752  is unusual , or simply well - studied . but",
    "either way , a more detailed understanding of its dynamics would appear to be important .",
    "the remainder of this paper is in four parts . in the next section",
    "we discuss in detail our observations and reduction procedure . following that we present our velocity dispersion profiles .",
    "the methods for inferring such kinematic conclusions from the data are , in our opinion , unsatisfactory .",
    "we discuss this in  [ discussion ] .",
    "we sum up our results in the concluding section .",
    "our proper motions are based on two epochs of wfpc2 data from hst .",
    "the earlier epoch consists of 116 pc - only frames taken as part of program go  5318 on 1994 august 18 - 19 . these were part of a search for variable stars in the center of the cluster . in this study",
    "we have used the 26.0 s f555w frames .",
    "these are arranged in a @xmath7 dither pattern centered on the @xcite center .",
    "we shall refer to this as the `` e1994 '' data .",
    "the second epoch consists of 12 wfpc2 frames taken as part of program go  7469 on 1999 september 12 .",
    "there are 4 frames at each of 3 positions arranged in an ` l'-shaped pattern with offsets between them the size of a pc field .",
    "the original intention had been to reproduce the position of frames taken with the original pc in 1991 august as part of program gto  2943 . in these data the center of the cluster appears principally on the wf chips .",
    "this is due to the error in the assumed center , as well as a measure of confusion in defining the offsets required to put the wfpc2 pc in the same places as in the 1991 data .",
    "we shall refer to this epoch as `` e1999 '' .",
    "the result of the combination of these two data sets is that while the area is limited to that of one pc frame by the e1994 data , our proper motions will be limited by the measurement precision of the e1999 positions .",
    "all the frames were reduced by the methods of @xcite .",
    "this uses the images of stars observed in multiple frames to measure the effective point - spread - function in the frame .",
    "this epsf takes into account the effects of the pixellation on the undersampled wfpc2 images and allows us to measure the position of point sources to a high precision .",
    "our reductions leave us with 116 raw star lists for the 1 field covered by the e1994 data and 48 lists for the over - lapping fields of the e1999 data .",
    "what is now required is to correct the positions in these lists for two things : 34-row error and distortion in the optics .",
    "the 34-row error @xcite was corrected using the model described in the appendix .",
    "distortion in each wfpc2 chip was corrected using the results of @xcite .    for the e1994 data ,",
    "the corrected positions were transferred into a reference frame by polynomial transformations including terms up to second order in the positions .",
    "the quadratic terms were required to allow for residual variation in the distortion terms . the reference frame consisted of the weighted means of the translated positions . these were stable after two iterations .",
    "an iterative @xmath8 clipping algorithm was employed in producing the mean positions .",
    "any observation that deviated by more than @xmath8 in either dimension was rejected in producing the mean position .",
    "the combination of the e1999 data was complicated by the multiplicity of individual pointings of the various frames .",
    "what we ultimately did was to first rigidly transform the corrected positions for each frame to a common one .",
    "the data from each ccd was transformed independently .",
    "the mean positions in this common frame formed the initial approximation to a reference frame .",
    "the rigidly transformed lists were then iteratively transformed onto the reference frame and then combined as discussed in the previous paragraph to form a new reference frame . several iterations were required before the difference in positions between two successive approximations were reduced to insignificance .",
    "both quadratic and cubic polynomials were used for the final transformations , but the final positions agreed within the estimated errors .",
    "we also tried local transformations using the 100 nearest neighbors to each star , but , again , there was no improvement in the quality of the final positions .",
    "the final positions in each epoch were calculated as weighted means of the translated positions in each frame .",
    "the uncertainty in the positions were estimated from the standard deviation of the individual positions after the rejection of @xmath8 outliers .    to measure dispersions",
    ", it is important to have confidence in our estimate of the errors in the individual positions . in order to validate our error estimate",
    ", we divided the e1999 data into two halves and calculated the positions and errors for each half separately .",
    "( our error budget for the proper motions is dominated by the uncertainty in the e1999 positions .",
    "since the e1994 data consists of 116 pc frames , the uncertainties there are an order - of - magnitude smaller . ) for each star we calculated the position differences in each dimension divided by the standard deviation in the difference .",
    "if the errors are correct and normal , these should be distributed as a gaussian with zero mean and unit standard deviation .",
    "what we found was that while the mean was consistent with zero , the standard deviation was 0.90 , indicating the errors to be underestimated .",
    "all errors in the final e1999 data were then divided by 0.90 to correct for this . as will be seen , the measured velocities are large enough that this 10% effect in the error estimation will have no appreciable effect on the final velocity dispersions .",
    "the final e1994 and e1999 star lists were then matched and a global quadratic transformation was calculated between them using the e1994 positions as the reference .",
    "cubic and local transformations give the same results with larger errors for the local transformations .",
    "the differences between the transformed positions were then taken as the proper motions in the e1994 coordinate system . a plate scale of 0.04558  pixel@xmath0 appropriate to the pc1 chip @xcite and",
    "the epoch interval of 5.07 years were used to convert the proper motion into units of mas yr@xmath0 .",
    "the proper motions in each dimension were examined for systematic effects with respect to the stellar coordinates in both epochs .",
    "none were seen .",
    "we also calculated two proper motions for each star by dividing the frames at each epoch into two samples . the proper motions in each half - sample were consistent within the estimated errors .",
    "thus , we are confident that these have been estimated correctly .",
    "in total there are 19888 stars with four or more observations in the e1999 data .",
    "we require this number of observations in order to be able to make reliable error estimates .",
    "our experience when dividing the sample into halves suggests that for these data four observations should be sufficient to estimate the errors adequately .",
    "1281 of these stars match stars included in the e1994 sample .",
    "for these stars the median combined error of the two proper motion components is 0.31 mas yr@xmath0 , with a mode of 0.17 mas yr@xmath0 .",
    "the distribution of uncertainties drops off rapidly , so we have established a cut - off at 1 mas yr@xmath0 and retained all 1121 stars with errors less than this . it should be noted that the stars rejected are _ not _ exclusively those with large proper motions .",
    "the proper motions of the retained stars are shown in the upper - right of figure  [ f : xyhistogram ] .",
    "note that no field population is apparent in this diagram .",
    "this is not unexpected given the relatively high galactic latitude of ngc  6752 .",
    "there is a similar lack of non - cluster stars in the color - magnitude diagram of @xcite .",
    "also in figure  [ f : xyhistogram ] we show histograms of the @xmath9 and @xmath10 components of the proper motions in e1994 coordinates .",
    "analysis of the distributions show that they are not described well by single gaussians . in each component",
    "there is a central core with the addition of a second , more broadly distributed component .",
    "we interpret the latter as likely due to blended stellar images in the e1999 wf data being matched with single stars in the e1994 data and giving spuriously high proper motions .",
    "we fit a two - gaussian mixture model @xcite to the proper motions in each component . then , for each star , we calculated the probability that the star was in each component and a joint probability that the star was in the narrow component .",
    "the mixture models had 12 to 18% of the stars in the broad component and , in the joint distribution , 15% had probabilities of being in the narrow component of less than 50% .",
    "as support for this interpretation we show in figure  [ f : blended ] the differences between the measured @xmath11 magnitudes in the e1999 and e1994 data sets . for the latter we have used the photometry of @xcite .",
    "the stars with joint probabilities of less than 50% are shown as solid symbols .",
    "these are found preferentially on the bright side of the distribution .",
    "this is as we would expect if the images in the e1999 data were the combination of two stellar images .",
    "the low - probability stars are concentrated to the center as we would expect .",
    "a ks test gives a probability of zero that the two groups come from the same radial distribution . even in the most crowded regions the majority of the stars",
    "are well measured , however .",
    "only 19% of the stars within 11of the center have low probabilities .",
    "this rises to 26% within 5and 37% for the 35 stars within 3of the center .    rejecting those stars with joint probabilities less than 50% , we have 950 stars left .",
    "our final step was to resolve the proper motions into radial and tangential components with respect to the radius vector between each star and the @xcite center .",
    "the proper motions as a function of radius and azimuth are presented in figures  [ f : proper motions ] and [ f : azimuthal mu ] .",
    "the azimuthal sample we use below is a 431 star subsample of the full star list .",
    "they have been selected to cover a uniform radial region so as not to introduce any biases arising from any radial variations in the velocity dispersion .",
    "the stars selected cover @xmath12 about the cluster center to @xmath13 .",
    "the e1994 frames lie within 4of north along the @xmath9 and east along the @xmath10 axes , so the azimuths in figure  [ f : azimuthal mu ] run roughly from north through east .",
    "extracting kinematic information from a set of velocities is as traditional as it is fraught with difficulty .",
    "it is customary to interpret the observed velocities as coming from a gaussian distribution and use them to measure the dispersion in the distribution , usually as a function of position .",
    "there are certainly reasons to believe that this is not actually the case , but , in the absence of sufficient data to attempt to recover the distribution function non - parametrically ( as in , for example @xcite ) , or the use of models transferred into the observational domain , it suffices as a first cut at interpreting the velocity data .",
    "it is in this spirit we calculate the velocity dispersions for ngc  6752  from our proper motions .    in order to investigate the radial and azimuthal dependence of the velocity dispersion we have binned the stars into equal number bins and used a maximum - likelihood technique to estimate the dispersion in each bin . for a given star with observed velocity @xmath14 and uncertainty @xmath15 ,",
    "if the systemic velocity is @xmath16 and the velocity dispersion in its bin is @xmath17 , for bins @xmath18 , then the likelihood of measuring @xmath14 is given by @xmath19 .",
    "\\label{e : like1}\\ ] ] for each bin , the total likelihood is the product of eq .",
    "[ e : like1 ] for all stars in the bin . from the data",
    "@xmath16 is consistent with zero and we have assumed this value in what follows . for the radial sample",
    "we have used 5 bins of 190 stars each . for the somewhat smaller azimuthal sample",
    "we have used 3 bins of 108 stars and one of 107 .",
    "the @xmath20 uncertainty in the dispersion estimate has been taken as the half - width of the symmetric region about the maximum likelihood containing 68% of the probability .",
    "for the binning used , this uncertainty in the measured dispersion is approximately 4% for the radial bins and",
    "6% for the azimuthal ones .    figure",
    "[ f : radial profile ] shows the velocity dispersion profile in the radial direction for the two components .",
    "the proper motions have been converted into velocities assuming a distance of 4.17 kpc .",
    "this corresponds to a distance modulus @xmath21 , and represents a compromise between @xcite who found a white dwarf distance modulus of @xmath22 and @xcite who find @xmath23 using hipparcos subdwarf distances . at this distance 1 mas /",
    "yr = 19.77 km s@xmath0 .",
    "inside 11 , i.e. the central , binary - dominated core , the dispersions in the two components are consistent and flat with a dispersion of about 12.4 @xmath24 km s@xmath0 .",
    "this is over twice the dispersion in the radial velocity as measured by @xcite and is inconsistent with their value .",
    "if we adopt the surface brightness profile parameters of @xcite , then our velocity dispersion suggests a central @xmath11-band mass - to - light ratio of 9 in solar units .",
    "this is consistent with the lower limit from the pulsar timings , but much larger than that typical for galactic globular clusters @xcite .    outside the core",
    ", the dispersion drops with radius and it appears that the dispersion in the tangential component drops more quickly than does the dispersion in the radial component .",
    "the presence of such radial anisotropy so close to the core would be quite unexpected . in the sophisticated n - body models of @xcite , for example , little anisotropy",
    "at all is seen in the inner half of the models , and what there is is tangentially anisotropic , not radially as is the case here .",
    "the differences between the radial and tangential dispersions are small , at most @xmath25 , but there is a systematic trend that is highly suggestive .",
    "figure  [ f : azimuthal profile ] shows the velocity dispersion as a function of azimuth about the center of the cluster . as discussed above",
    ", this does not cover the entire @xmath26 due to the off - center pointing of hst .",
    "any differences between the radial and tangential velocity dispersions do not appear significant nor systematic .",
    "our main results are that the central velocity dispersion in ngc  6752  is larger than that measured previously on the basis of radial velocities , and that there appears to be substantial radial anisotropy just outside the core of the cluster .",
    "the significance of these results depend on how much credence we give to the velocity dispersion estimates .",
    "our analysis of the velocities has been fairly conventional , in that we have binned the data to derive a velocity dispersion at a number of distances from the cluster center .",
    "the only unusual feature is the use of variable uncertainties , but , in the limit where the errors on the velocities are equal , our method reduces to the quadrature removal of that error from the standard deviation of the measurements .",
    "our advantage over @xcite is that our repeated measurements provide a good estimate of uncertainties on a star - by - star basis .",
    "the common use , however , of this technique to explore globular cluster dynamics has a number of serious conceptual problems .",
    "here we list and discuss the difficulties in the standard approach to exploring radial trends in velocity dispersion .",
    "\\1 ) binning is not , in general , an appropriate way of characterizing radial change .",
    "there are well - known biases involved in binning , including unequal distribution of data over the bin , changes in expected values of a quantity over the bin , the intrinsic trade - off between resolution ( the number of bins ) and precision ( the number of data points within a given bin ) .",
    "bayesian techniques ( e.g. @xcite ) can be used to get around this problem , but care must be taken since one is interested in the radial change of a distribution , rather than of a quantity .",
    "\\2 ) in a similar vein , the mass dependence of the velocity distribution must be taken into account .",
    "mass segregation is a clear feature of globular cluster dynamics , and therefore the velocity dispersion depends on the mass of the objects being measured .",
    "this mass varies from object to object , and the distribution of masses varies with radius . even objects with very similar observational characteristics may have quite different masses .",
    "consider , for example , the case of high - mass - ratio , double - main - sequence , binary stars , which may lie almost on top of the isochrone for single stars .",
    "since the fraction of binaries doubtless varies strongly with radius , as in the present case , one may not be measuring the same mass distribution at different radii even when one can control for the luminosity distribution .",
    "\\3 ) the measurement of the velocity dispersion in a globular cluster is hampered by the limited number of stars available .",
    "this is especially true in the center of a cluster , where the measurement of the velocity distribution may be forever limited by the finite number of stars present .",
    "examination of any of the hst images of the central regions of globular clusters will quickly illustrate this point .",
    "our proper motions already cover nearly every star within 11@xmath27 of the center down to well below the main sequence turn off .",
    "since the mass function in the core of this cluster ( like most dense clusters ) is flat , or perhaps even inverted @xcite , we can not gain more than a factor of two by going fainter on the main sequence .",
    "there is a small vignetted section in the e1994 data , some small regions were insufficiently observed in the e1999 data , and some stars were lost due to blending , but the potential gain in total number of stars from those lost in this way is quite small . unless we can detect large numbers of white dwarfs and neutron stars , the total number of stars in the core of any given cluster is limited .",
    "\\4 ) the shape of the velocity distribution is not in general understood .",
    "one of the most important assumptions in both binned and bayesian methods of exploring the velocity distribution in clusters is that this distribution can be characterized by a single number ( the dispersion ) generally taken to be the standard deviation of the distribution . unless the distribution is gaussian , a dispersion measured this way is not the same as the second moment of the true velocity distribution , which could bias further analysis . but this assumption of normally distributed velocities must be wrong at some level . even in single - mass isotropic king models",
    "the velocity distribution is _ not _ a maxwell - boltzmann distribution , but one with a cutoff . in a realistic treatment",
    ", it is far from clear what a measurement of a `` dispersion '' really means .",
    "it is particularly problematic in small samples ( in one bin , for example ) , where a single outlier can greatly change the measured value of any moment of a distribution .",
    "\\5 ) finally , the very concept of a velocity distribution is poorly defined in a globular cluster . defining a `` distribution '' imposes an assumption of continuity on the population . in a globular cluster , and especially in the center , the dynamics may be severely influenced by non - fluid effects .",
    "there are only a finite number of stars , and the stochastic properties of their particular location in phase space may be of considerable importance .",
    "this is particularly true given that the gravitational potential , which gives rise to the velocity distribution , is created by those very same stars .",
    "the situation is quite different in the case of the center of a galaxy . in that case , the black hole is so much more massive than the stars that the potential is smooth and well - defined , and there are generally enough stars or gas particles that better observations lead to more independent measurements in an obvious way . even in the case of a galaxy , however , it is not clear that radial velocity measurements alone are sufficient to independently constrain both the mass - to - light ratio and the mass of any central black hole @xcite .",
    "there has been in the past some level of recognition of some of these problems .",
    "none of the solutions to date , however , have been entirely satisfactory .",
    "alternatives to standard binning have been advocated by @xcite and @xcite in their lowess and rotate2 algorithms .",
    "these algorithms attempt to provide a non - parametric characterization of the velocity - dispersion profile . while the first explicitly makes a smoothed , non - parametric estimate of the velocity - dispersion profile , the latter amounts to nothing more than a maximum - likelihood method applied to a set of overlapping bins of undisclosed and variable width and population .",
    "the derived profiles are frequently characterized by large , high - frequency oscillations .",
    "the character and location of these oscillations are easy to replicate using a more standard binning procedure .",
    "as the uncertainties are taken from bootstrapped samples based on the inferred profile , the error bands parallel the estimated profile .",
    "it is then hard to decide how much credence to give the apparently significant fluctuations in the dispersion .",
    "@xcite attempted to use a bayesian approach to measuring the dispersion profile both in bins and in various parametric forms .",
    "the underlying method is similar to the maximum - likelihood method we use here , but their method of hypothesis comparison is incorrect .",
    "what that attempt at hypothesis comparison does highlight is the wide range of possible parametrizations and the necessity to objectively choose the best amongst them . to take some concrete examples ,",
    "we might find of use answers to the following sorts of questions : are our velocities here better represented by a velocity - dispersion profile consisting of a single power - law or one with a core ?",
    "at what level do the radial and tangential components have profiles that disagree ?",
    "ultimately , however , we would wish to get beyond parametrization to allow the data to `` speak for themselves '' .",
    "@xcite and @xcite have advocated a series of non - parametric inversion techniques to move from the observed surface - density profile and projected velocity - dispersion profile to the more intrinsic density profile , velocity - dispersion profile , and ultimately the potential and distribution function .",
    "these methods have much to recommend them and a practical application has been demonstrated in @xcite in the case of @xmath28 cen .",
    "merritt s techniques find the minimum of a penalized log likelihood of the form @xmath29 ^ 2 + \\alpha p\\left(g\\right),\\ ] ] where @xmath30 is a projection operator that brings the desired function , @xmath31 , into the observable space where we observe @xmath32 .",
    "the quantity @xmath33 is the measurement error and @xmath34 is a functional that assigns large penalties to noisy solutions for @xmath31 .",
    "the degree of smoothing depends on the value of @xmath35 and is necessary since the inversion problem is under - constrained .",
    "the function @xmath31 can be , for example , the mass - density profile , a velocity or velocity dispersion , or the distribution function . until one gets to the inverted distribution function one is still relying on the assumption that the velocity distribution is indeed gaussian in estimating its dispersion and from this the potential .",
    "these techniques give results that are generally independent of any functional form imposed by parametrizing assumptions .",
    "the resulting functions are those that best match the data , given the degree of smoothing .",
    "they do require large numbers of velocities and can not be applied if a more limited quantity is all that is available .",
    "what is lacking is a measure of how convincing a representation that is .",
    "@xcite use a philosophically similar approach , although quite differently implemented , to estimate the mass - density profile from the observed surface - density profile and velocity - dispersion profile estimated by the lowess algorithm @xcite .",
    "they use spline - smoothed estimates of the profiles which are then numerically differentiated and integrated to obtain , via jeans equation , the mass - density profile .",
    "their method , like merritt s , recovers the original model for simulated data .",
    "the assumption , though , is that the velocity ellipsoid is isotropic .",
    "a somewhat more direct approach to measuring the potential of a globular cluster is seen in @xcite for m15 .",
    "they invert the surface - density profile under various assumptions for the mass - to - light ratio to derive , via jeans s equation , velocity - dispersion profiles .",
    "they then compare these to the observed velocities using a maximum - likelihood technique .",
    "the large discrepancies between these profiles and that measured using the @xcite method , despite the supposedly consistently high likelihood , can not help but leave us feeling that one or both of the dispersion estimator and the likelihood argument are incorrect .",
    "indeed , this work highlights the risk of over - interpreting velocity data .",
    "@xcite claim to have found evidence for a @xmath36 black hole in the center of m15 .",
    "this claim is largely independent of the strength of their claimed fit to the m15 velocity - dispersion profile discussed above . instead , the evidence in support of a black hole rests on the velocities of about 12 stars within 1@xmath27 of the cluster center , 8 of these being new hst / stis measurements with median error of 5.7 km s@xmath0 . even in their original presentation",
    "@xcite , the evidence for a black hole is , at best , a @xmath20 detection . in the final result ( * ? ? ?",
    "* correcting for a scale error in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , even the claim for a black hole becomes ambivalent and dependent on the apparent existence of a 20,000@xmath6 black hole in the m31 cluster g1@xcite .",
    "but the claim for g1 is even weaker .",
    "the method used for estimating the mass of the putative black hole there is known to give false minima in @xmath37 in the face of insufficient data even for galaxies @xcite .",
    "a globular cluster , with its problems of granularity , stellar sparseness , and small radius of influence for a black hole , is probably the worst place to apply these techniques .",
    "we do not suggest that we know what is the correct way to proceed here .",
    "what we would like to do is raise the level of awareness of the issues involved .",
    "what is needed is to identify techniques which work optimally for a particular quantity and type of data in the face of the limits discussed above .",
    "application of these methods must be tempered by an appreciation of their biases and limitations , and with proper attention to whether the conclusions drawn are actually supported by the data or are just artefacts of the method used .",
    "our hst proper motions suggest that the velocity dispersion in the center of ngc  6752  is surprisingly large . at 12.5 km",
    "s@xmath0 it is much larger than the measured dispersion along the line of sight .",
    "while there is some uncertainty in the distance to ngc  6752  it is certainly known to better than the factor of roughly two which would be required to bring the two measurements into agreement .",
    "our dispersion indicates a v - band mass - to - light ratio of 9 .",
    "radial anisotropy appears outside of about 1.5 core radii .",
    "further observations are required to confirm the measurements presented here and to extend them to a larger area .",
    "more importantly , the theoretical basis underlying the kinematic interpretation of stellar velocities in globular cluster needs to be reconsidered .",
    "we would like to thank j. anderson for the use of his astrometry code and him , i.r .",
    "king , and s. shaklan for useful discussions .",
    "the comments of the anonymous referee and anderson on the original version of the appendix prompted us to re - examine our original 34-row correction .",
    "the result is the much improved version presented below .",
    "drukier and bailyn were supported by a nasa ltsa grant nag5 - 6404 .",
    "van altena and girard acknowledge the long - term assistance of their colleagues on the hst astrometry science team ( w. h. jefferys , p.i . and",
    "g. f. benedict , co - p.i . ) who collaborated in the gto observations and made it possible for us to obtain the go observations that provided the second - epoch observations used in this investigation .",
    "they also acknowledge financial support from nasa for the gto observations and of the stsci for the go observations .",
    "the so called 34-row error @xcite originated in the construction of the wfpc2 ccds .",
    "it manifests itself as a periodic effect where every 34th - row of the ccd is a few percent narrower than the others . in this case",
    "we lose uniformity in the @xmath10-coordinate .",
    "every 34th - row occupies less physical space , but is still assigned the same unit distance in coordinate space .",
    "the net effect is that the observed @xmath10 positions of stars deviate systematically from their true positions in a series of step functions .",
    "@xcite correct for this using a sawtooth function with period 34.1333 pixels based on measured residuals to a mean position .",
    "this combines a step function with a scale stretch .",
    "@xcite argue that this is sensible since , if the 34th row is narrower than the average row , then the other 33 rows are wider . but",
    "this is to conflate the plate scale with the physical source of the defect . and , while the correction suggested by @xcite is correct _ on average _ , it strikes us as less than satisfactory .",
    "the inter - flaw spacing , we feel , ought to be an integral number of pixels , presumably 34 .",
    "further , the flawed rows should be identifiable , allowing for a correction which would be correct in detail , rather than just on average . to that end",
    ", we have reconsidered the nature of the 34-row flaw and have reexamined the wfpc2 flat fields to test our reconstruction .",
    "@xcite describe the construction of the reticles for the wfpc2 ccds in some detail .",
    "a 0.5  by 0.5  e - beam was scanned in the @xmath10-direction for 512  at a time laying down the desired pattern .",
    "the beam was shifted by 0.5  in the @xmath9-direction and the scan repeated until the pattern for the full 800-pixel width of the ccd had been laid down on the reticle .",
    "the e - beam was then shifted by 512  in @xmath10 and the next 512  region was scanned .",
    "this was repeated until the full 800-pixel height of the ccd had been laid down , completing the pattern .",
    "what appears to have happened is that the 512 @xmath10-scans actually occupied 512.5 on the reticle and , consequently , the ccds .",
    "the shift between vertical scans remained 512  so at the edge of each vertical scan a 0.5  region was scanned twice by the e - beam with two consecutive regions of the ccd pattern .",
    "we postulate that the e - beam was magnified by 0.1% in the @xmath10-direction resulting in slightly rectangular pixels , 15  wide as planned , but approximately 0.1% taller .",
    "a slight inclination of the reticle plane with respect to the e - beam could account for this .",
    "the result is that 512  of ccd pattern were replicated onto 512.5  of the reticle . at the edge of each scan",
    "we find 1  of pattern projects onto 0.5  of the physical ccd and mapping from pattern space to physical position on the ccd is double valued . in that 0.5  region",
    "the reverse mapping goes to two parts of the pattern spaced by @xmath38  where @xmath39 is the magnification factor .",
    "this puts a 512  periodicity into the underlying pattern .",
    "in addition , there is a second periodicity , one of 15 , corresponding to the pixel size .",
    "this maps into @xmath40  on the ccd for the normal pixels .",
    "every approximately 34 pixels you get the pixel that contains the doubled - up flaw and , consequently , this row is narrower by about 0.5 .",
    "the details of which rows are damaged depends on the details of the relative phasings of the 15 and 512  periods and how these map onto the 800 pixels that define the @xmath10-dimension of the ccd .",
    "we can certainly see that the 15  cycle has phase zero at the edges of the ccd .",
    "it appears , however , that the 512  cycle does not start at the same place .",
    "if you make some assumptions about these phases , you can easily show that the typical inter - flaw spacing is 34 rows .",
    "there is a 15-flaw pattern where , in the 7th and 15th flawed pixels , the spacing is 35 pixels .",
    "there are two cases , where the 34th pixel is either normal or where both the 34th and 35th pixels are damaged by a doubled - up region that contains a pixel boundary .",
    "thus , on average , as noted by @xcite , the periodicity is @xmath41 pixels , but this comes from a mode of 34 pixels in 13/15 cases and 35 in the other 2/15 .",
    "the correction should take into account the detailed position of the flawed rows rather than only dealing with the problem on average",
    ".    rr flaw & row + 2 & 99 + 3 & 133 + 4 & 167 + 5 & 201 + 6 & 235 - 6 + 7 & 269 + 7 & 270 + 8 & 304 + 9 & 338 + 10 & 372 + 11 & 406 + 12 & 440 + 13 & 474 + 13 & 475 + 14 & 508 + 14 & 509 + 15 & 543 + 16 & 577 + 17 & 611 + 18 & 645 + 19 & 679 + 20 & 713 + 21 & 747 - 8 + 22 & 781 + 22 & 782 +    in order to test our reconstruction , we examined the wfpc2 flat fields . to do this",
    ", we took each flat and divided it into a @xmath42 pixel median filter of itself .",
    "we averaged together each row and all four wfpc2 ccds since the flaw pattern is identical on each .",
    "figure  [ f : flat ] shows the f343n , f502n , and f953n flats after they have been processed in this manner and the vignetted region trimmed off .",
    "the flawed rows are readily identifiable by their low intensity . in this figure ,",
    "the vertical axis is the relative response function of the rows due to the 34-row anomaly .",
    "the flawed rows are listed in table  [ t : flaws ] .",
    "the flaw number is given by @xmath43 , where @xmath44 is the flawed row .",
    "as expected , the modal inter - flaw spacing is 34 rows . as @xcite reported in proof from a private communication from r. gilliland",
    ", there are a number of flaws which occupy two adjacent rows .",
    "our model predicts that this would occur when the 1  doubling region contains a pixel boundary , but this should only happen every 15th flaw , i.e. twice across the ccd , not the six times seen .",
    "we note that the flaw pairs do obey our expected 15 flaw periodicity as does the relative response at all wavelengths .",
    "we identify flaws 6 and 21 ( rows 235 - 6 and 747 - 8 ) with the expected situations where the flaw region contains a pixel boundary .",
    "the two rows in each flaw appear to have the same size , roughly half the usual size .",
    "flaws 13 and 14 , half - way between as expected , also have a doubled structure , but , in these cases one row is clearly more flawed than the other .",
    "we refer to the row with the deeper signal as primary and the other as secondary .",
    "the primary flaws are in rows 474 and 509 , with the expected 35 row spacing .",
    "other flaws in the vicinity of these two types of double flaws also show the primary / secondary structure , particularly flaws 7 and 22 . without understanding the details of the flawed regions on the level of the ccd electronics , it is impossible to fully explain this pattern , but it appears to us that the flaw impacts a region around it to a range of several .",
    "if a pixel boundary falls within the affected region , then the neighboring row will also appear slightly flawed in the flat fields as seen in figure  [ f : flat ] . the variation in the relative response with wavelength we also attribute to the electronic structure of the ccd pixels .",
    "longer - wavelength light penetrates deeper into the ccd , so the variations with filter are probably telling us something about the physical properties of the flawed silicon . note , however , that the pipeline flat - field frames used here are combined from flat fields in several filters @xcite .",
    "the weakness , or indeed absence , of flaws 2 , 10 , and 17 at the bluer wavelengths where they are strongest in the infrared , is particularly interesting .",
    "our model predicts that these flaws ( note the 15-flaw period again ) are the most likely to have the doubled region lying in the center of the pixel .",
    "all this confirms the report by gilliland in the @xcite note . as noted there",
    ", these variations will affect the photometric 34-row correction , but should not apply to the astrometric correction .",
    "as @xcite note , the ccds , to a high precision , are square .",
    "this is the result of the excess height of the normal pixels ( @xmath45 ) being compensated for by the narrower , flawed , rows .",
    "the 800 pixels of the ccd are defined by just over 23 repetitions of the 512  period , resulting in 23 flawed rows .",
    "the 777 normal rows each exceed their expected size by @xmath46 , so each flawed row is @xmath47 tall in units of the @xmath10-dimension of the pixels .",
    "this is 0.966 pixels for @xmath48 or 0.967 pixels for @xmath49 .",
    "we adopt 0.967 for our correction . the difference in @xmath9 and @xmath10 scales",
    "will be taken care of in the plate solution .",
    "our correction is as follows .",
    "for each star with centroid not lying in a flawed row as listed in table  [ t : flaws ] we reduce the @xmath10-coordinate by 0.033 pixels per flaw with lower @xmath10 value . for stars with centroids lying in a flawed row ,",
    "the @xmath10-coordinate is first rescaled in that pixel to occupy a pixel of size 0.967 rather than 1.000 before the offset is applied for the previous flawed rows . for the double - flaws 6 and 21 each row",
    "is treated has having half the flaw size . for the remaining flaws with primary / secondary structure ,",
    "only the primary row is considered as being short .",
    "a comparison with the correction of @xcite shows that , apart from the scale difference , the maximum difference in the corrected positions is 0.015 pixels in the flawed rows . in keeping with our philosophy ,",
    "the 0.1% scale difference between @xmath9 and @xmath10 is taken care of in the plate solution .",
    "the data in this paper were corrected with an earlier version of this correction where a strict 34-pixel spacing was assumed and the differences in detected positions of stars in offset frames were used to infer the size of the narrow rows and the phase of the 34-pixel period with respect to the ccd .",
    "the result was a slightly larger narrow row and slightly different flawed rows at the top and bottom of the ccd .",
    "we have compared the final proper motions with the new correction and our results are unchanged .",
    "anderson , j. & king , i. r. 1999 , , 111 , 1095 anderson , j. & king , i. r. 2000 , , 112 , 1360 anderson , j. & king , i. r. 2003 , , 115 , 113 baumgardt , h. & makino , j. 2002 , , submitted biretta , j. , et al .",
    "1996 , wfpc2 instrument handbook , version 6.0 ( baltimore : stsci ) cannon , r. , da costa , g. , norris , j. , stanford , l. , & croke , b. 2002 , in asp conf .",
    ", new horizons in globular cluster astronomy , ed .",
    "g. pioto , g. meylan , g. djorgovski , & m. riello , ( san francisco : asp ) in press ( astro - ph/0210324 ) carretta , e. , gratton , r. g. , clementini , g. , & fusi pecci , f. 2000 , , 533 , 215 colpi , m. , possenti , a. , & gualandris , a. 2002 , , 570 , l85 damico , n. , possenti , a. , fici , l. , manchester , r. n. , lyne , a. g. , camilo , f. , & sarkissian , j. 2002 , , 570 , l89 dinescu , d. i. , girard , t. m. , van altena , w. f. , mndez , r. a. , & lpez , c .e .",
    "1997 , , 114 , 1014 djorgovski , s. & king , i. r. 1986 , , 305 , l61 drukier , g. a. , slavin , s. d. , cohn , h. n , lugger , p. , berrington , r. c. , murphy , b. w. , & seitzer , p. o. 1998 , , 115 , 708 dubath , p. , meylan , g. & mayor , m. 1997 , , 324 , 505 dull , j. d. , cohn , h. n. , lugger , p. m. , murphy , b. w. , seitzer , p. o. , callanan , p. j. , rutten , r. g. m. , & charles , p. a. 1997 , , 481 , 267 dull , j. d. , cohn , h. n. , lugger , p. m. , murphy , b. w. , seitzer , p. o. , callanan , p. j. , rutten , r. g. m. , & charles , p. a. 2003 , , in press gao , b. , goodman , j. , cohn , h. , & murphy , b. 1991 , , 370 , 567 gebhardt , k. & fischer , p. 1995",
    ", , 109 , 209 gebhardt , k. , pryor , c. , williams , t. b. , & hesser , j. e. 1994 , , 107 , 2067 gebhardt , k. , pryor , c. , oconnell , r. d. , williams , t. b. , & hesser , j. e. 2000 , , 119 , 1268 gebhardt , k. , rich , r. m. , & ho , l. c. 2002 , , 578 , l41 gerssen , j. , van der marel , r. p. , gebhardt , k. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson , r. c. , & pryor , c. 2002 , , 124 , 3270 gerssen , j. , van der marel , r. p. , gebhardt , k. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson , r. c. , & pryor , c. 2003 , , 125 , 376 gratton , r. g. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 369 , 87 grindlay , j. e. , heinke , g. , edmonds , p. d. , & murray , s. s. 2001 , science , 292 , 2290 harbeck , d. , smith , g. h. , & grebel , e. k. 2003 , , 125 , 197 koekemoer , a.m. , biretta , j. & mack , j. 2002 , wfpc2 instrument science report 2002 - 02 .",
    "mclaughlin , d. e. 2000 , , 539 , 618 merritt , d. 1993 , in structure , dynamics and chemical evolution of elliptical galaxies , ed .",
    "i. j. danziger , w. w. zeilinger , & k. kjr , ( munich : eso ) , 275 merritt , d. 1996 , , 112 , 1085 merritt , d. , meylan , g. , & mayor , m. 1997 , , 114 , 1074 merritt , d. & tremblay , b. 1994 , , 108 , 514 momany , y. , piotto , g. , recto - blanco , a. , bedin , l. r. , cassisi , s. , & bono , g. 2002 , , 576 , l65 nemec , j. m. & nemec , a. f. l. 1993 , , 105 , 1455 norris , j. e. , cottrell , p. l. , freeman , k. c. , dacosta , g. s. 1981 , , 244 , 205 pooley , d. et al . 2002 , , 569 , 405 pryor , c. & meylan , g. 1993 , in asp conf .",
    "50 , structure and dynamics of globular clusters , ed .",
    "djorgovski & g. meylan , ( san francisco : asp ) , 357 renzini , a. , bragaglia , a. , ferraro , f. r. , gilmozzi , r. , ortolani , s. , holberg , j. b. , liebert , j. , wesemael , f. , & bohlin , r. c. 1996 , , 465 , l23 rubenstein , e. p. & bailyn , c. d. 1997 , , 474 , 701 rubenstein , e. p. & bailyn , c. d. 1999 , , 513 , l33 shaklan , s. , sharman , m. c. & pravdo , s. h. 1995 , applied optics , 34 , 6672 shawl s. j. & white r. e. 1986 , , 91 , 312 trager , s. c. , king , i. r. , & djorgovski , s. 1995 , , 109 , 218 valluri , m. , merritt , d. , & emsellem , e. 2002 , , submitted ( astro - ph/0210379 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present proper motions derived from wfpc2 imaging for stars in the core of the peculiar globular cluster ngc  6752 . </S>",
    "<S> the central velocity dispersion in both components of the proper motion is 12 km s@xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the implications of this result as well as the intrinsic difficulties in making such measurements . </S>",
    "<S> we also give an alternative correction for the 34-row problem in the wfpc2 ccds . </S>"
  ]
}