{
  "article_text": [
    "soon after the @xmath2-ray flash , optical and x - ray afterglows of grbs are among the brightest sources in the sky at cosmological redshifts .",
    "eighteen grb redshifts have been measured to date , in the range 0.00854.5 .",
    "follow - up observations of the three brightest grb localized by bepposax ( grb990123 , grb990510 and grb010222 ) show that tens of minutes after the grb the optical afterglow can be as bright as 14 - 16 mag . ; a few hours later it can still be as bright as 17 - 19 mag .",
    "the x - rays afterglow can be as bright as the crab nebula a few minutes after the grb , while 5 - 8 hours later it can be as bright as a bright agn , i.e. @xmath3mcrabs .",
    "( see fiore et al .",
    "2000 for an estimate of the grb afterglows 0.5 - 2 kev logn - logf , when fluxes are integrated from minutes up to hours after the grb event ) .",
    "this opens up a new perspective for gathering spectra of unprecedent quality of sources at cosmological redshift , provided that the afterglow can be observed in such short timescales .",
    "afterglows can then be used as probes of the high z universe through the detection of absorption line systems along the line of sight , both intervening and associated with the host galaxies .",
    "absorption lines are more difficult to study than emission lines , but carry with them unbeatable information because they probe matter along a single beam , i.e. along the line of sight to the background beacon .",
    "this greatly reduces the complications related to the matter geometry and dynamics , which strongly affects emission line studies .",
    "at least two fundamental issues can be addressed through absorption line studies : ( 1 ) the enrichment history of the universe , through the study of the inter - stellar matter ( ism ) of the grb host galaxies ; ( 2 ) the heating history of the universe , through the study of the so called `` x - ray forest '' ( high ionization resonant lines of o , ne , c , etc . )",
    "associated with the warm - hot phase of the inter - galactic matter ( igm ) in filaments and the outskirts of clusters of galaxies along the line of sight ( fiore et al .",
    "the study of z@xmath4 galaxies available so far relies on the lyman - break galaxies at z@xmath5 ( see e.g. steidel et al . 1999 ) and on galaxies which happens to be along the line of sight to bright background quasars ( see e.g. churchill et al .",
    "some of these systems are associated with damped ly@xmath6 systems ( dla ) ( see e.g. pettini et al . , 1997 , 1999 ) .",
    "however , lyman - break galaxies are characterized by pronounced star - formation and their inferred chemical abundances may be related to these regions rather than being representative of typical high z galaxies .",
    "metal line systems in galaxies along the line of sight to quasars probe mainly the ism of outer haloes , rather than that in the bulge or in the disc . finally , it is not clear if galaxies associated with dlas are truly representative of the whole high z galaxy population .",
    "grb afterglows can provide new , independent and less biased tools to study the ism of high z galaxies .",
    "figure 1a compares the equivalent width ( ew ) of the mgii2796   and feii2600   lines detected in the spectra of four grb afterglows , and probably associated with the host galaxies , with those in the samples of churchill et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , lu et al . ( 1996 ) and pettini et al . (",
    "the ew of both lines is consistent or slightly higher ( a factor of 2 at most ) than those of the strongest metal lines associated with dlas .",
    "figure 1b compares the znii2062   to feii2600   ew line ratios of three dlas to those of three grb host galaxies . since the low resolution grb afterglow observations can not resolve the znii2062.0 line from the nearby crii2061.6 line we have evaluated the relative contribution of the two lines to the observed ew .",
    "the oscillator strength of the znii line is 3.3 times that of the crii line . if the zn / cr ratio in the grb host galaxies is @xmath7 , the mean zn / cr ratio in dlas ( pettini et al .",
    "1997 ) , we expect that the znii ew is @xmath8 of the measured znii+crii blend",
    ". if this is the case grb znii / feii line rations could still be a factor of 2 - 3 higher than dla ones .",
    "this may imply a different dust depletion pattern ( fe tends to be heavily locked in dust grain , while zn is almost unaffected by dust ) .",
    "it is clear that only high resolution spectra ( r@xmath9 ) can provide unambiguous information on the interstellar gas metallicity .",
    "fe locked in dust grains may leave a signature in the x - ray spectrum of grb afterglows .",
    "neutral fe l edges have recently been detected in a high resolution spectrum ( r@xmath10 ) of an agn ( lee et al .",
    "the simultaneous absence of strong low ionization o and ne edges can be explained if most neutral fe is locked in dust grains .",
    "this suggests that high resolution x - ray spectra of grb afterglows can be used to search for the signatures of fe locked in dust in the host galaxy ism .",
    "x - ray spectroscopy may then represent a powerful tool , complementing high resolution o - uv observations , in depicting the chemical evolutionary history of galaxy ism .",
    "this can then be compared to the cosmic history of the metal enrichment derived through different techniques ( e.g. dla studies ) and to theoretical models ( see e.g. cen & ostriker 1999 ) .",
    "the ism of grb host galaxies may have already been detected in x - rays .",
    "absorption at a level of a few@xmath11 @xmath12 ( rest frame ) has been discovered in the x - ray spectra of grb010222 ( in t zand et al .",
    "2001 , stratta et al .",
    "2001 in preparation ) .",
    "unfortunately the low resolution ( r=10 ) bepposax spectra can not detect individual absorption edges and therefore the detailed study of grb host galaxies ism must await for xmm - newton , chandra ( see e.g. piro et al .",
    "2000 ) , or future missions r@xmath13 spectra .",
    "strong lines from @xmath14process elements like s and si are considered a signature of typeii supernova enrichment .",
    "a siii1526.7 line has been measured for the first time in the spectrum of a grb afterglow only recently ( grb010222 , masetti et al .",
    "2001 ) with ew=@xmath150.3  .",
    "this is in the ballpark of the ew of the siii lines associated with dlas .",
    "according to current cosmological scenarios ( see e.g. dav et al . 2001 ) the warm ( @xmath16 k@xmath17t@xmath18 k ) igm may comprise @xmath19 of the baryons in the universe at z@xmath20 .",
    "observations of the warm igm predicted to be found far from the high density virialized regions have yielded so far only limited information .",
    "gas with t@xmath21 k has been revealed through ovi absorption at 1032 , 1038   at z=0.10.3 ( e.g. tripp et al .",
    "2000 ) . in collisional equilibrium ovi is the dominant o ion only for a very narrow temperature range ( t=@xmath22 k ) . at higher temperatures the dominant ions are ovii and oviii , whose k@xmath6 and k@xmath23 lines are in the range 0.5 - 0.7 kev .",
    "x - ray spectroscopy of these lines ( and of the high ionization c , ne , s and si lines ) is therefore a powerful tool to probe such a warm , low density gas .",
    "the expected ew for warm intergalactic clouds of h column density between @xmath24 and @xmath25 @xmath12 and metal abundance 0.2 - 0.3 solar are @xmath26 ev , calling for high resolution ( r=@xmath27 ) spectroscopy .",
    "this is feasible today only with dispersive spectrometers ( elvis , these proceedings ) .",
    "one interesting property of gratings is that their resolution is about constant in wavelengths and therefore it improves as @xmath28 going toward low energies .",
    "the minimum detectable ew scales as the square root of the resolving power @xmath29 .",
    "since the rest frame line ew scales as ( 1+z)@xmath30 , using gratings the minimum detectable rest frame ew is about constant with z. this means that similar o column densities can be probed up to the z when the o features go out of the observing band ( 0.2 kev for ccds , corresponding to z@xmath31 for oviii ) .",
    "thermal broadening of o lines is @xmath32 km s@xmath33 at t=@xmath34 k. a resolution of r@xmath35 is needed to resolve these lines .",
    "reasonable warm intergalactic gas turbulence may be of 100 - 200 km s@xmath33 . in these cases a resolution of 1500 - 3000 may still be enough to resolve the lines and measure the doppler term @xmath36 .",
    "if the temperature of the gas can be constrained through ovi , ovii and oviii line ratios the measure of @xmath36 can provide information on the heating history of the gas .",
    "for example , if the gas was shock heated during the collapse of density perturbation one would expect that the gas temperature is proportional to the square of the gas sound speed , which in turn should be proportional to the gas turbulence . by measuring @xmath36 and t",
    "it would be possible to perform a self - consistency check of this idea and to provide tests and constraints to hydrodynamic models for the collapse of density perturbation and their evolution ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> grb afterglows close to their peak intensity are among the brightest sources in the sky . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss how grb optical - to - x - ray afterglows can be used as probes of the metal enrichment of the interstellar matter in the grb host galaxies and of the heating history of the intergalactic matter in filaments and outskirts of clusters of galaxies along the line of sight . </S>",
    "<S> the key points of the proposed observation strategy are : 1 ) prompt grb observations ( from minutes to a few hours ) ; 2 ) coordinated high resolution o - uv and x - ray observations ( r=@xmath0 in the 0.1 - 1 kev band and r@xmath1 in the ouv ) .    # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}