{
  "article_text": [
    "observations are beginning to conclude that massive central black holes are a natural part of elliptical galaxy centers @xcite .",
    "in fact , best - fit models of black hole demography indicate that approximately @xmath2 of ellipticals harbor a massive black hole .",
    "black hole mass seems to be correlated with the host bulge potential ; current dynamical estimates of the best galactic black hole candidates have yielded masses on the order of @xmath3@xcite .",
    "there also seems to be a strong correlation between black hole mass and global velocity dispersion , implying that the fundamental plane exists even in the four - dimensional space described by ( @xmath4 ) @xcite .",
    "it appears , then , that black hole formation and the evolution of the host galaxy may be deeply connected .",
    "this proceeding explores one way in which black holes may drastically change the structure of an elliptical galaxy over large scales : by inducing axisymmetry in a triaxial galaxy .",
    "it appears , then , that a supermassive black hole s impact on the structure and subsequent evolution of its host galaxy is both dramatic and far - reaching .",
    "there is evidence , both observationally and theoretically , that elliptical galaxies are at least mildly triaxial in shape @xcite .",
    "even a mildly triaxial galaxy will generate entirely different orbit families than are present in a spheroid .",
    "in particular , there are a rich variety of regular box and boxlet orbits that are centrophilic and comprise the backbone of the galaxy ( figure [ fig1 ] ) .",
    "these centrophilic orbits can be driven chaotic with the introduction of a supermassive black hole @xcite . and , since chaotic orbits will eventually fill all available phase space , the time - averaged shape of a chaotic orbit is spherical .",
    "hence , the destruction of these centrophilic orbits breaks the backbone of the triaxial model and the system evolves toward axisymmetry .",
    "this effect has been shown in numerous computational and analytic studies@xcite .",
    "in fact , the main controversies are whether the galaxy becomes axisymmetric locally or globally , and whether the transformation occurs in a few crossing times or over many hubble times",
    ".    if the transformation is rapid and global , there are important implications for elliptical galaxy evolution .",
    "for example , one possible difference between an intrinsically bright elliptical ( which is thought to be more triaxial ) and a faint elliptical is that the faint elliptical , with its shorter crossing time , has had more interactions with the black hole and is thus more dynamically evolved @xcite .",
    "secondly , the black hole / bulge mass relation can be explained in terms of galaxy evolution @xcite . in this scenario ,",
    "spiral galaxies begin as gas - rich disks with a small triaxial bulge .",
    "since triaxiality supports box orbits , gas can flow radially inward along these orbits , which can rapidly funnel matter into a black hole .",
    "the black hole grows until a critical black hole mass of @xmath5 , which breaks triaxiality and strongly curtails the gas inflow .",
    "subsequent disk - disk merging can create a elliptical galaxy , and black hole feeding ensues in this larger triaxial bulge until the critical black hole mass is achieved . in both types of galaxies ,",
    "the process is the same : once the black hole mass fraction is large enough to disrupt box orbits , gas inflow is sharply diminished .",
    "however , most self - consistent n - body simulations which have studied this effect have employed astrophysically unrealistic galaxy models @xcite .",
    "for example , the models have been highly flattened , maximally triaxial models , while observations indicate that ellipticals are most likely mildly triaxial and not very flattened .",
    "furthermore , the black hole was often grown within a flat inner density profile ( a core ) which , while it maximized the change in the inner potential , does not reflect the observations of cuspy inner density profiles in ellipticals .",
    "my collaborators and i @xcite have explored the issue of black hole - embedded triaxial galaxies with more realistic galaxy models .",
    "our models exhibited a range of moderate triaxialities ( @xmath6 ) with mild flattening and cuspy inner density profiles .",
    "they were generated by adiabatically squeezing a cuspy hernquist sphere into a stable triaxial figure , and then adiabatically growing a central black hole in this model@xcite .",
    "the models were populated with @xmath7 multimass particles to accurately reproduce the central density cusp , and the particles were advanced with a multiple timestep , high - order hermite integrator in the scfcode .",
    "figure [ fig2 ] shows the change in the physical structure of a triaxial model as the black hole is grown .",
    "initally , the model had axis lengths @xmath8 , and a central density cusp @xmath9 . if this galaxy were to lie on the core and global fundamental planes , the density cusp dictates the absolute magnitude ( @xmath10 ) , mass ( @xmath11 ) , core radius ( @xmath12 ) and effective radius ( @xmath13 ) of the corresponding galaxy .",
    "although the final state of this black hole - embedded model is decidedly not axisymmetric on global scales , it is certainly more round near the center .",
    "we developed an automated orbit analysis routine to determine if this central roundening was caused by black hole - induced centrophilic orbit destabilization .",
    "figure [ fig3 ] presents xy , xz surfaces of section for the initial state of the triaxial potential ( ie no black hole ) . despite the rich variety of resonant boxlets , boxes , and tubes , less than @xmath14 of the orbits were strongly chaotic ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "after the black hole has grown , the orbital content is quite different . in the inner regions ,",
    "nearly all centrophilic orbits have become stochastic , including the population of eccentric loops .",
    "however , for less bound orbits , there are only a scattered few strongly chaotic orbits .",
    "a common interpretation for the lack of chaos in these less bound orbits is that they have been integrated for far fewer dynamical times than the highly bound orbits .",
    "thus these outermost orbits have not been exposed to the perturbative black hole potential enough for substantial chaos to set in . to test this explanation , we integrated a subset of the lesser bound box and boxlet orbits ( @xmath15 ) in the xy plane for @xmath16 orbital times .",
    "although the percentage of chaotic orbits in this subset increased from @xmath17 to @xmath18 over the experiment , many stable centrophilic orbits existed after @xmath19 2 hubble times , including a large fraction of non - resonant boxes .",
    "a possible explanation is that these weakly bound orbits spend very little of the orbit in the inflection region between spherical potential and the triaxial potential , and are thus not driven stochastic at all .",
    "this explanation is far different than scenarios which involve scattering by the black hole , but black hole scattering is difficult to envision as the cause of the chaos observed in our models , since there were many outer orbits that passed quite close to the black hole , yet remained stable after hundreds of dynamical times .",
    "the black hole in our model induced axisymmetry out to nearly 100 parsecs , and resulted in a clearly observable change in the shape and structure of the galaxy . since the transformation did not take place globally",
    ", it is tempting to say that the black hole mass / bulge mass relation observed in the current galaxy population is it not simply an artifact of gas inflow in a more triaxial - shaped progenitor population .",
    "however , it is not immediately clear how the more localized axisymmetry we observed would effect gas inflow and subsequent black hole feeding . while it it true in our globally triaxial model that gas inflow from outside the half mass radius would never be entirely cut off , the behavior of the gas once it hits the axisymmetric region requires detailed gas dynamical simulations .",
    "nonetheless , it is clear that a central supermassive black hole causes dramatic and long - lasting changes in the host galaxy over scales well outside the region in which it dominates the potential .",
    "gebhardt , k. _ et al _ 2000 , apjl , 543 , 5 .",
    "richstone , d. _ et al _ 1998 , nature , 395 , 14 .",
    "kormendy , j. & richstone d. 1995 , araa , 33 , 581 .",
    "magorrian , j. _ et al _ 1998 , aj , 115 , 2285 .",
    "van der marel , r. 1999 , aj , 117 , 744 .",
    "gebhardt , k. _ et al _ 2000 , apjl , 543 , 13 .",
    "ferrarese , l. , merritt , d. 2000 , apjl , 539 , 9 .",
    "bak , j. & statler , t. 2000 , aj , 120 , 110 .",
    "dubinski , j. & carlberg , r. 1991 , apj , 378 , 496 .",
    "norman , c. , may , a. , van albada , t. 1985 , apj , 296 , 20 .",
    "gerhard , o. , & binney , j. 1985 , mnras , 216 , 467 .",
    "fridman , t. & merritt , d. 1997 , apj , 114 , 1479 .",
    "merritt , d. & quinlan , g. 1998 , apj , 498 , 625 .",
    "valluri , m. & merritt , d. 1998 , apj , 506 , 686 .",
    "holley - bockelmann , k. , mihos , c. , sigurdsson , s. , hernquist , l. 2001 , apj , in press ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> supermassive black holes can be seen as an agent of galaxy transformation . in particular , </S>",
    "<S> a supermassive black hole can cause a triaxial galaxy to evolve toward axisymmetry by inducing chaos in centrophilic orbit families . </S>",
    "<S> this is one way in which a single supermassive black hole can induce large - scale changes in the structure of its host galaxy  </S>",
    "<S> changes on scales far larger than the schwarzschild radius ( @xmath0 ) and the radius of influence of the black hole ( @xmath1 ) . </S>"
  ]
}