{
  "article_text": [
    "the vast majority of known high redshift galaxies are selected in the rest - frame ultraviolet ( uv ) .",
    "for instance the lyman break technique , which selects actively star forming galaxies based on their broad band ultraviolet ( uv ) colours , is the primary method for efficiently selecting redshift @xmath9@xmath103 galaxies ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) and has inspired similar techniques to isolate star forming galaxies from @xmath11 ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the galaxies identified in these surveys are observed during the peak of the cosmic star formation rate density ( e.g @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) and represent a significant fraction of the total star formation at high redshift @xcite . the star formation rates ( sfrs ) derived from these uv - selected galaxies are therefore crucial for determining the history of star formation and heavy element production in the universe",
    ".    however the sfrs obtained from the rest - frame uv fluxes are very sensitive to the effects of dust attenuation intrinsic to the galaxies @xcite . correcting the observed fluxes for the attenuation",
    "requires an understanding about the true nature of the sources and their dust content that is currently lacking . to overcome this ,",
    "average corrections are applied based on dust attenuation laws observed in local starburst galaxies ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite , hereafter mhc99 ) , which appear to be the local analogues of the high redshift lbgs ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "however there is considerable disagreement about the size of the corrections to be applied with some evidence that attenuation has been overestimated @xcite .",
    "x - ray observations can add to this debate by providing a view of galaxies that is relatively unaffected by dust and extinction .",
    "hard x - rays are emitted from star forming galaxies by a combination of high mass x - ray binaries ( hmxbs ) , supernovae remnants and hot gas @xcite .",
    "locally strong correlations between x - ray luminosity and other sfr measures have been seen @xcite , showing that x - ray luminosity can be used as a sfr measure ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) . by comparing x - ray derived sfrs with uv estimates we can independently check the validity of the attenuation corrections and gain insight into the nature and dust content of the uv - selected galaxies in the early universe .    although the majority of high redshift star forming galaxies are not bright enough to be detected with the current class of x - ray telescopes , with deep _",
    "observations the average properties of a sample can be determined using stacking techniques ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "several efforts at this have already been made .",
    "@xcite stacked the emission from 24 @xmath9@xmath63 lbgs in the 1  ms chandra deep field - north ( cdf - n ) , detecting a significant 0.52  kev observed - frame signal .",
    "using local starburst reddening relations @xcite predicted the mean x - ray luminosity of the 24 lbgs and found it agreed well with the stacking results .",
    "also in the 1  ms cdf - n , @xcite analysed the emission from two much larger samples of 148 @xmath9@xmath63 lbgs and 95 @xmath9@xmath61 star forming galaxies .",
    "more recently using the 2  ms data in the goods - north field , @xcite analysed the stacked emission from a sample of uv - selected @xmath9@xmath62 galaxies and @xcite analysed the emission from large samples of @xmath9@xmath123 , 4 , 5 and 6 lbgs .",
    "in this paper we seek to add to this work by improving upon and extending the analysis of the @xmath9@xmath61 galaxies by nandra et al .",
    "( 2002 ; hereafter n02 ) using the 2  ms observation of the hdf - n region . using a much larger catalogue of 255 @xmath9@xmath61 uv - selected balmer break galaxies ( bbgs ) we assess the x - ray properties and the relations between uv and x - ray emission of the galaxies , during a period where the star formation density of the universe was at its peak . throughout",
    ", we assume a standard , flat @xmath13cdm cosmology with @xmath14 and h@xmath15 km s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 .",
    "the bbg candidates were colour selected from optical images using photometric criteria , detailed in @xcite .",
    "briefly , the bbgs have been selected based on the strengths of the balmer and 4000    breaks in their spectral energy distributions , designed to identify starburst , sb- and sc - type star forming galaxies @xcite .",
    "the candidate list , which includes all bbgs with spectroscopically confirmed redshifts with @xmath0 , is considerably larger than that used in n02 thanks to the extensive spectroscopic effort of the team keck treasury redshift survey in the great observatories origins deep survey ( goods)-north field @xcite .",
    "there are 255 galaxies in our cdf - n bbg sample , with @xmath16=0.95 .",
    "@xmath17 and @xmath18 magnitudes and colours have been measured for all the objects .",
    "the hdf - n region has been observed with _",
    "acis - i 20 times since launch , with the total exposure time approximately 2  ms .",
    "analysis of these observations , and a point source catalogue , was presented in alexander et al .",
    "( 2003 ; hereafter a03 ) . for this paper",
    "we used the raw data available from the public archive .",
    "the hdf - n was observed over a period of 27 months during which time the observing conditions and operating mode of the telescope changed .",
    "the 20 observations can broadly be separated into three groups : the first three observations were taken in faint mode with a focal plane temperature of @xmath19c , the following 9 observations also in faint mode with temperature @xmath20c , and the final 8 observations , constituting the second 1  ms , taken in very faint mode at -120  c. the differences in the observing modes at times warranted separate treatment when reducing the data .",
    "our analysis is restricted to an approximately @xmath21 region within the larger acis - i field of view .",
    "this encompasses the optical bbg survey region ( @xmath22 ) .",
    "data reduction was carried out using the _ chandra _ x - ray center ( cxc ) _ chandra _ interactive analysis of observations ( ciao ) software , version 3.0.1 , and the _ chandra _ calibration database ( caldb ) version 2.23 . using the tool acis_process_events",
    ", all observations had up - to - date gain maps and geometry solutions applied .",
    "in addition , the observations taken at -120  c were corrected for radiation damage inflicted in the first few months of _ chandra _ operations using the standard cxc cti correction , and the eight observations taken in very faint mode were further cleaned by identifying likely background events .",
    "the event files were filtered using standard screening criteria  asca event grades 0,2,3,4,6 , good time intervals and status=0  to remove bad and flaring pixels , bad columns , cosmic ray afterglows etc .",
    "source subtracted lightcurves were created and periods where the background was more than 3@xmath1 from the mean value were flagged using analyze_ltcrv .",
    "all the periods of high background identified by analyze_ltcrv were removed in addition to a further 44.4  ks from observation 2344 where the procedure failed to identify a flare and 15.2  ks from observation 3389 where it failed to identify the full duration of a flare .    before coadding the event files , the relative astrometry was improved by registering each observation to the coordinate frame of observation 1671 using bright sources within 6 arcminutes of the aim points .",
    "this was done using the align_evt tool written by t. aldcroft .",
    "the root - mean - square shift applied to the observations was 0.54 arcseconds in ra and 0.38 arcseconds in dec .",
    "the average aim point for the combined observations , weighted by exposure time , was @xmath23 , @xmath24 ( j2000.0 ) and the total exposure time was 1.86  ms .",
    "we constructed event files and images in four bands : 0.52  kev ( soft band ) , 0.57  kev ( full band ) , 27  kev ( hard band ) and 47  kev ( ultra - hard band ) .",
    "effective exposure maps were constructed using the merge_all tool for each of the four bands  these take into account the effects of vignetting , gaps between chips , bad column and bad pixel filtering and are required for converting observed counts to flux .",
    "the maps were created at a single energy representative of the photons in each band : 1  kev for the soft , 2.5 kev for the full , 4  kev for the hard and 5.5  kev for the ultra - hard band .",
    "these are the mean photon energies of detected sources in the band .",
    "given that bad pixel files for observations in different modes vary considerably , and that merge_all will only accept one bad pixel file , in order to properly account for their effect we created separate exposure maps for each of the three groups of observations described above .",
    "these maps were then re - gridded to produce effective exposure maps for the full @xmath25ms .",
    "a plot of solid angle over the bbg survey area as a function of soft band effective exposure is shown in figure 1 .    when performing photometry with _",
    "chandra _ images the energy - dependent and position - dependent point - spread function ( psf ) must be properly accounted for . due to the different aim points of the 20 observations in the hdf - n a given sky position",
    "will have a different psf in each observation and the final psf should therefore represent the average value . to calculate the psf for a given sky position we used the mkpsf tool with the caldb psf library file acisi1998-11-052dpsf1n0002.fits to create an image of the psf at the corresponding detector position in each of the observations and",
    "then combined the images , weighted by exposure , to create an average psf image . a radial profile of the psf image",
    "was then obtained by extracting counts from 30 concentric circles out to a maximum radius of 30 arcseconds . assuming all counts",
    "are contained within the 30 arcsecond radius we then calculated by interpolation the radius at which , say , 90 per cent of the counts are enclosed ( referred to as the 90 per cent encircled energy fraction , eef ) and also the fraction of counts enclosed within a given fixed radius , say , 1.5 arcseconds arcminutes ) any error introduced is likely to be very minor . ] .",
    "this method can be repeated for different energies , positions , eefs and radii .",
    "finally , psf - corrected count rates should be converted to flux . for this conversion",
    "we have assumed a power - law source spectrum with @xmath26=2 in the all bands and galactic column density n@xmath27  @xmath28 @xcite .",
    "when converting from counts to flux the full , hard and ultra - hard bands were extrapolated to the standard upper - limit of 10  kev .",
    "it has been found that the _ chandra _ acis quantum efficiency ( qe ) has been suffering continuous degradation since launch  most likely a result of the build - up of material on the acis detectors or optical blocking filers @xcite  which affects the spectral response of the detectors and , therefore , the counts to flux conversion .",
    "we have calculated the necessary corrections to the fluxes using the acisabs model , version 1.1 - 2@xmath29 . for galactic column density and",
    "@xmath26=2 the soft , hard , full and ultra - hard fluxes should be increased by 14.7 , 0.6 , 11.5 and 0.1 per cent respectively .",
    "all fluxes quoted in this paper have been corrected for the qe degradation .",
    "source detection was carried out in the field , the reasons for which are threefold : ( 1 ) identify bbg galaxies that are directly detected at 2  ms , ( 2 ) use these objects to determine any overall offsets between the coordinate reference frames of the optical and x - ray images , and ( 3 ) identify all x - ray sources for exclusion from the stacking background calculations . source detection was performed using our own procedure , which is detailed in @xcite . to identify x - ray sources for exclusion from the stacking background determination we set the false probability threshold to @xmath30 , a level for which 1 spurious source is expected per band in the @xmath21 survey area . to find only x - ray counterparts to the bbgs",
    "the threshold can be set much lower without introducing likely spurious x - ray sources as the area in question in considerably reduced .",
    "we used a threshold of @xmath31 which , given the number of bbgs and the area over which the bbg and _ chandra _ catalogues are cross - correlated , results in a probability of a false x - ray detection of a bbg of less than 0.15 per cent per detection band . in each case",
    "sources were detected in the full , soft , hard and ultra - hard bands and a band merged catalogue produced .",
    "the lower significance band merged _ chandra _ catalogue was matched to the bbg catalogue to search for any x - ray counterparts and to identify any overall shift in the optical and x - ray reference frames that should be removed before performing stacking . a small overall offset between the two catalogues",
    "was found and the positions of the bbg candidates were shifted by -0.47 arcseconds in ra and -0.88 arcseconds in dec to agree with the reference frame of the _ chandra _ observation .    after correcting for this overall offset we re - matched the band merged _ chandra _ catalogue to the bbg catalogue , using a radius of 1.5 arcseconds , to search for x - ray counterparts .      to determine the mean x - ray properties of the balmer break galaxies that are too weak to be directly detected we employ a stacking technique similar to those described in n02 and @xcite .    , where s and b are the net source counts and background counts respectively .",
    "the two different background methods , shuffled and random positions , give very similar results .",
    "the results using a fixed fraction of the eef are plotted at the average extraction radius used .",
    "the vertical dashed lines denote our chosen extraction radius of 1.25 arcseconds .",
    ", width=283 ]    we first identify all the candidates that have an x - ray counterpart and exclude them from the stacking .",
    "secondly we identify any candidates with an unassociated , nearby x - ray source ",
    "these objects will be affected by the low - level psf wings of the _ chandra _ psf and will lead to erroneously high source counts .",
    "we reject from the stacking all candidates which are separated from an x - ray source by a distance less than that of the 95 per cent eef radius in that region . in a given stacking sample normally zero or one and",
    "never more than two sources were rejected . for the remaining galaxies in the samples we extract counts from the optical positions , summing both the detected counts and the number of pixels used for the extraction",
    ".    the background counts contributing to the total source signal are estimated in two ways .",
    "first we randomly shuffled the optical galaxy positions by 510 arcseconds and extracted counts from an x - ray source - masked image .",
    "secondly we used random positions from anywhere over the @xmath21 region of interest and again extracted counts from the masked image .",
    "in both cases , this was repeated 1000 times for each galaxy  sufficient to get an accurate estimate of the background counts and the dispersion .",
    "the counts and pixels were summed then scaled to the same area as the source extraction .",
    "both background procedures produced very similar results  in this paper",
    "we quote all results for the shuffled positions , which should better account for any local variations in the background level .",
    "the strength and accuracy of the observed signal is sensitive to the size of extraction radius used .",
    "a highly significant soft band detection of a smaller sample of bbgs in this field has already been achieved by n02 : with the deeper data we therefore seek an extraction radius to minimize the flux errors rather than maximise the significance of the detection .",
    "we adopted an empirical approach to determining the optimal extraction radius  we tested 10 fixed extraction radii between 0.75 and 3.0 arcseconds , as well as the 70 , 80 , 85 , 90 and 95 per cent eef radii ( figure 2 ) , selecting the option yielding the maximum signal - to - noise ratio .",
    "we chose a fixed extraction radius of 1.25 arcseconds , which gave a 14.9@xmath1 detection with a signal - to - noise ratio of 11.6 ( we define detection significance as @xmath32 and signal - to - noise ratio as @xmath33 $ ] , where s and b are the net source and background counts respectively ) .",
    "the appropriate psf corrections for a 1.25 arcseconds extraction radius were calculated and the flux estimates corrected accordingly .",
    "we used the full sample of bbgs for the stacking and did not limit the analysis to sources at small off axis angles .",
    "of the 255 bbgs in our sample 37 are directly detected in x - ray . some of these sources show clear evidence of harbouring an agn ( i.e. broad optical emission lines , x - ray luminosity greater than @xmath34 ) while for others the x - ray emission could be due to an agn , star formation , or a combination of both . in this paper",
    "we are concerned with the x - ray properties of galaxies where the emission is likely to be dominated by normal star forming processes and we consequently seek to omit from the analysis all galaxies where agn emission may dominate .",
    "we therefore , conservatively , exclude all 37 of the directly detected galaxies and deal only with the undetected bbgs for the remainder of this paper . at @xmath9@xmath61",
    "this equates to removing all galaxies with l@xmath35 .",
    "full analysis of the x - ray , optical and uv properties of the detected galaxies including starburst and agn separation and identification will be addressed in an upcoming paper ( laird et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .      [ cols=\"<,<,^,^,^,>,^,^,^,^ \" , ]         the soft band signal for the undetected bbgs is strong enough to split the galaxy sample into subsets according to broad band properties and stack the x - ray emission for several bins , allowing the correlation of x - ray emission with observed - frame optical magnitudes and colours to be examined .",
    "in order to achieve reasonable signal - to - noise ratios , for each broad band property we split the sample into 6 bins based on @xmath36 magnitude and @xmath37 colour .",
    "the range in redshift of the galaxies in our sample , @xmath38 , means that a galaxies broad - band colour is not just a function of its intrinsic properties but is also a function of redshift . in order to investigate any correlations between uv colour and x - ray emission without a contaminating redshift effect we also calculate and bin according to the relative @xmath37 colour excess for the galaxies . for each colour ( @xmath39 etc ) the colour excess for each galaxy",
    "is calculated from the difference between the galaxy colour and the median colour of all galaxies with a redshift within @xmath40 of the galaxy redshift .",
    "these values were binned and the mean colour excess for each bin was shifted so that the lowest value bin , which presumably contains the bluest and therefore least attenuated galaxies , was equal to zero .",
    "we denote this shifted colour excess by e(18002400 ) , e(24003400 ) and e(34004050 ) for the @xmath41 and @xmath42 bands respectively , with the wavelengths denoting the approximate rest - frame wavelength of the emission in each filter .",
    "the stacking procedure used for the magnitude , colour and colour excess bins was identical to that carried out for the full samples of undetected sources .",
    "the results of the subset stacking are shown in figures  4 ( binning according to magnitude ) and 5 ( binning on colour ) .",
    "for each quantity we show the exact mean 0.52  kev flux per galaxy in a given bin , with errors , regardless of whether or not the detection is considered significant .",
    "low significance detections are easily identifiable by their correspondingly large error bars .",
    "the minimum flux for a 3@xmath1 detection is @xmath43  erg  s@xmath3  @xmath28 ( log @xmath44 ) .",
    "we plot @xmath45 , @xmath46 , @xmath47 and @xmath18 magnitude versus x - ray flux ( figure 4 ) .",
    "correlations between magnitude and soft x - ray flux , in the sense that the brightest uv sources are also the brightest x - ray sources , are seen for each filter .",
    "spearman s rank and pearson s linear correlation tests show each of the relations to be highly significant ( e.g. pearson s linear correlation coefficients were -0.93 , -0.93 , -0.95 , -0.99 , all with significance @xmath4899 per cent , for @xmath45 , @xmath46 , @xmath47 and @xmath18 respectively , table 2 ) .",
    "rest - frame 14  kev x - ray emission and rest - frame uv emission are therefore related even before the effects of dust attenuation are applied .",
    "the results of the stacking in the six @xmath45 bins , which with a rest - frame wavelength of @xmath61800    at @xmath9@xmath61 corresponds to the wavelength commonly used for uv measures of sfr , are shown in table 1 .",
    "only the weakest bin , 25.25 @xmath49 27.03 , does not have a significant ( @xmath50 ) x - ray detection .    the relations between x - ray flux and the colours of the bbgs is less clear . for @xmath51 , a measure of the spectral slope in the far uv ,",
    "the x - ray signal of the undetected sources is approximately flat for varying colour ( figure 5 ) . with respect",
    "to @xmath52 colour again the x - ray signal is approximately flat , with perhaps some evidence for a slight increase in x - ray flux with increasing redness .",
    "the results for @xmath53 , a measure of the spectral slope near the balmer break , also show no evidence of a relation with x - ray emission .",
    "binning on colour excess , which removes any redshift dependence in the colours , produced very similar results to those shown in figure 5 : uv colour excess therefore also showed no clear correlation with x - ray flux .",
    "spearman s rank and pearson s linear correlation tests confirm the absence of a significant correlation between colour and x - ray flux ( table 2 ) .",
    "the x - ray emission from the undetected bbgs included in the stacking analysis should not be dominated by agn as we excluded from the analysis all galaxies that were directly detected , equating to a l@xmath54 cut - off at @xmath9@xmath61 , therefore removing all moderate and luminous agn .",
    "the mean stacking signal is certainly not dominated by a few agn just below the detection threshold , as is demonstrated by the counts - in - cell distribution shown in figure 3 .",
    "the presence of highly obscured agn can also be ruled out from the observed soft spectrum of the stacking signal . with significant stacked detections in both the soft and hard bands we calculated the mean hardness ratio ( @xmath55 , where h and s are the net hard and soft band counts ) of the sample .",
    "we find that hr=@xmath56 , which is consistent with a @xmath57 unabsorbed power - law spectrum at @xmath9@xmath61 .",
    "while limited by large errors this result is consistent with the observed spectra of local starburst and star forming galaxies ( e.g. @xcite ) and is inconsistent with the hard spectrum expected if there was a significant population of obscured agn within the sample ( e.g. the spectrum of the x - ray background ) .",
    "this supports the assumption that the emission from the bbgs is a result of star formation . in saying this",
    "we should point out that the presence of low luminosity agn ( llagn ) , with luminosity less than or comparable to the host galaxies themselves , can not be ruled out .",
    "indeed given the observed incidence of low level nuclear activity in the local universe @xcite it is almost certain that there are more as yet undiscovered agn within the bbg sample .",
    "however the contribution of such llagn to the mean bbg x - ray luminosity is expected to be small : in a sample of nearby llagns less than one third have x - ray emission that is dominated by a compact nuclear source and the mean 210  kev luminosity of the llagns is less than @xmath58 per cent of that of the bbgs @xcite . for the galaxy sample used here",
    "we therefore assume that the observed emission is dominated by star formation processes .",
    "for such a sample of galaxies the x - ray emission should be proportional to the sfr allowing the x - ray luminosity ( normally 210  kev ) to be used as a sfr measure ( n02 ; @xcite ; @xcite ) . for situations such as the one here where only the total 210  kev luminosity of a galaxy or sample of galaxies is known , and the data render it impossible to resolve the hmxbs either spatially or spectrally , an x - ray ",
    "sfr relation with the form of the @xcite relation relating the total 210  kev emission to sfr should be used . only in local galaxies , where it is possible to resolve the hmxb population dominating the 210  kev flux , can the sfr be derived directly from the total luminosity emitted by hmxbs ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "an additional possible source of contamination is that of emission from lmxbs which reflects the total stellar mass of a system as opposed to the instantaneous sfr .",
    "for galaxies with low sfr emission from lmxbs can dominated the flux and the x - rays will cease to measure sfr @xcite . while we do not attempt to model and separate out the contribution of lmxbs to our measured fluxes we can place approximate upper limits on the expected level of emission from lmxbs in our sample .",
    "studies of the lmxb population in the milky way give an estimate of the luminosity from lmxbs per solar mass of stars @xcite . using this result , and assuming that the _ mean _ stellar mass of the bbgs is no greater than @xmath59  m@xmath60 , gives an estimate of the maximum total luminosity from lmxbs per bbg of @xmath61 .",
    "under these conditions the contribution of lmxbs to the 210  kev luminosity would then be @xmath615 per cent for the full sample , rising to @xmath630 per cent for the lowest significantly detected bins .",
    "we do not therefore expect lmxbs to dominate the emission for this sample of star forming galaxies .",
    "_ spitzer _ mips data , as well as ground based k band imaging , can be used to probe the stellar masses of the bbgs and will allow more stringent estimates of the lmxb contribution to be made .",
    "this will be addressed in future work .",
    "given the expected low contribution from agn and lmxbs to our detected signal we are confident that the x - ray emission from our sample of undetected bbgs is indeed tracing star formation and we proceed according to this assumption .",
    "the observed x - ray fluxes and luminosities which correspond to rest - frame 14  kev emission therefore offer us a measure of sfr at @xmath9@xmath61 that is relatively unaffected by attenuation by dust , for column densities of n@xmath62 which corresponds to a@xmath63 .    using the empirical relation between the total 210  kev luminosity and sfr found by @xcite , we find that the mean sfr per bbg is @xmath4  m@xmath5 ( table 1 ) , consistent with that found by n02 for a smaller sample of bbgs using the 1  ms data .",
    "comparison uv luminosities and estimates of the sfr are calculated from the flux as measured in the @xmath45 band , which at @xmath9@xmath61 corresponds to rest frame @xmath61800   , and the @xcite uv luminosity ",
    "sfr relation .",
    "these luminosities and sfrs have not been corrected for dust attenuation and should therefore underestimate the sfr compared to x - ray estimates , which better measure the bolometric value .",
    "we find @xmath643 for the full stacking sample , an estimate of the attenuation correction factor for the uv .",
    "this attenuation factor is slightly smaller than that found by @xcite for uv selected galaxies at @xmath9@xmath62 ( @xmath644.5 ) and by @xcite for @xmath9@xmath63 lbgs ( @xmath645 ) .",
    "this difference is likely due to the mean sfrs of these samples being significantly larger than that considered here : the attenuation factor is similar to the factor of 2.3 found for the sfr@xmath6520  m@xmath5 subsample of @xcite , which has a more similar range in sfrs .",
    "it is important to emphasize that the properties derived for our sample do not necessarily represent the bbgs as a whole . by excluding from our analysis all bbgs with significant direct x - ray detections we",
    "will undoubtedly have removed from the sample the galaxies with the highest sfrs , in addition to the agn dominated sources . with a cut - off luminosity of @xmath6@xmath66",
    "this is equivalent to removing all galaxies with sfr @xmath67  m@xmath5 .",
    "the mean sfr , and possibly also uv attenuation factor , of the bbgs as a class is therefore likely to be higher than the values derived here ( see  4.2 for further discussion on observed correlations between sfr , attenuation and uv colour ) .",
    "solid line shows best - fitting power law relation .",
    "dotted line shows best - fitting power law relation with 1-to-1 mapping between x - ray and uv luminosity .",
    ", width=283 ]    [ lum ]        the results of the subset stacking in  3.3 ( figure 4 ) clearly show that there is a correlation between x - ray flux and uv magnitudes .",
    "these correlations , whereby the brightest uv sources are also the brightest x - ray sources , hold over the rest - frame wavelength range 18004000   .",
    "good , approximately linear , correlations between x - ray luminosity and radio and far infrared ( fir ) sfr indicators have been observed before for star forming and starburst galaxies , indicating that the three wavelength regimes are all following the sfr ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the correlation seen here between x - ray flux and 1800    emission also implies that both regimes are tracing the sfr . as discussed above , because rest - frame hard x - rays are relatively unaffected by extinction they should reflect the intrinsic sfr without the need for extinction corrections . on the face of it",
    "the observed correlation with x - ray is therefore reassuring in terms of using 1800    to measure sfr at high redshift : in general , for uv selected galaxies the sources with the apparent highest sfr also appear to be the brightest in the uv . however given that uv emission is very sensitive to dust attenuation the correlation is a little surprising .",
    "following the generally accepted picture of higher sfr galaxies also being dustier ( e.g. @xcite ) one might expect the galaxies with large x - ray flux ( representing high sfr ) to have suppressed uv flux . in figure 6",
    "we show the relation between x - ray and 1800    uv luminosity for the undetected galaxies .",
    "spearman s rank and pearson s linear correlation tests show a highly significant correlation between log l@xmath68 and log l@xmath69 ( table 2 ) .",
    "the best - fitting power - law is @xmath70 which has an acceptable chi - squared .",
    "the best - fit to an exact linear slope @xmath71 is also acceptable , at the 90 per cent level . with no evidence for increasing uv attenuation with increasing sfr ,",
    "as measured by the x - ray , the observed correlation between x - ray and uv is counterintuitive to general picture of higher sfr galaxies being dustier .",
    "the same effect is suggested with the @xmath72 ratios in table 1 : for increasing uv flux ( and following on from figures  4 and 6 , increasing x - ray flux and sfr ) the mean uv attenuation factors actually decrease ( though within the errors the results are also consistent with an approximately constant attenuation factor over the small range in sfrs covered here ) .",
    "these results suggest that uv attenuation may not necessarily be a direct function of sfr over the range of sfrs considered here .",
    "the subset stacking also showed there to be no relation between redness in the uv and x - ray flux ( figure 5 ) the immediate interpretation of which is that there is no direct correlation between the colour of the uv selected galaxies and their sfrs .",
    "local starbursts exhibit a strong correlation between uv colour and dust absorption , as measured for example by the ratio of far - infrared to uv flux , implying that the starbursts redden as the dust absorption increases and allowing uv attenuation to be estimated purely as a function of uv colour ( mhc99 ) .",
    "furthermore the locally derived starburst attention laws appear to hold for high-@xmath9 uv - selected galaxies such as lbgs ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) . in order to investigate",
    "if such a correlation between colour and attenuation is seen for the @xmath9@xmath61 uv selected galaxies and if the local relations hold we plot the ratio of x - ray to uv derived sfr for subsets binned on colour excess ( figure 7 ) . since the x - ray sfr estimates should be unaffected by absorption this ratio is a measure of uv attenuation . in figure 7",
    "we also show the corresponding attenuation coefficient , a@xmath73 , related to the sfr ratio by sfr@xmath74sfr@xmath75 .",
    "correlations between colour excess and attenuation are seen for each of the three bands , with linear correlation tests ( table 2 ) revealing the strongest correlation to be with e(24003400 ) .",
    "for each , we fit a linear function log(sfr@xmath68/sfr@xmath69 ) = a + ( b@xmath76colour excess ) , where a and b are constants , which is similar in form to that derived by @xcite .",
    "each fit yields an acceptable @xmath77 , with e(24003400 ) producing the best fit . by binning the data on uv colour excess and calculating the corresponding x - ray and uv sfrs for each bin we find the correlation between uv colour , uv derived sfr and x - ray derived sfr to be @xmath78 where errors are for @xmath79 , or 90 per cent confidence , for one interesting parameter . for the sfrs covered in our sample , and over a range in colour excess of @xmath80",
    ", we find that the uv attenuation ranges from 0.5 to 2.0 magnitudes at 1800   , corresponding to relatively modest uv correction factors of @xmath81 .",
    "the observed colour  attenuation results , while certainly limited by the number of fitting points and large errors , show clearly that uv colour is correlated with dust attenuation for uv selected galaxies at @xmath9@xmath61 .",
    "this key result allows a single uv colour to be used to estimate uv attenuation corrections and attenuation corrected sfrs , as shown above in equation 3 .",
    "the attenuation coefficients , a@xmath73 , and corresponding values of log(sfr@xmath68/sfr@xmath69 ) predicted by the reddening curve and attenuation law of @xcite are also shown in figure 7 . for a given reddening curve , the implied relationship between attenuation , a@xmath73 , and colour excess , e ,",
    "is nearly independent of the assumed underlying galaxy template .",
    "the calzetti lines in figure 7 are appropriate for galaxy spectral types i m , sc , and sb which span the expected range for bbgs .",
    "while the normalisation of our data points with respect to absolute values of colour excess was approximate , and therefore the relative normalisation between our data and the calzetti prediction is also approximate , the main conclusion is clearly visible : the calzetti law over predicts the attenuation corrections compared to the observed values . between e(18002400)=0 and e(18002400)=1 approximately 7 magnitudes of extinction",
    "are predicted at 1800   , compared to the observed difference of @xmath62 magnitudes  an over prediction of the range in uv luminosity and uv sfr correction factors of @xmath6100 . for a typical galaxy in our sample with e(18002400)@xmath820.25 ,",
    "the calzetti law predicts a@xmath831.7 compared to the observed a@xmath831.1  an over prediction in the uv sfr correction factor of 1.6 . for e(18002400 ) , e(24003400 ) and e(34004050 ) the probability that the data are derived from the calzetti model is @xmath84 per cent , regardless of the exact position of the calzetti slope relative to the data points .",
    "the failure of the calzetti attenuation law at predicting the attenuation of the galaxies in our sample is most likely a result of the inherent differences in the sample of galaxies used here and those from which the attenuation laws were calculated .",
    "the attenuation laws were derived for local starburst galaxies for which the uv colours are predominantly affected by dust content and obscuration .",
    "bbg selection on the other hand identifies sb- and sc - type star forming galaxies as well as starbursts @xcite and therefore includes galaxies with more quiescent star formation , and a range of star formation histories and stellar population ages which affect the uv colours as much as the dust content .",
    "such samples of galaxies clearly do not follow the starburst attenuation laws .",
    "with the 2  ms observation of the hdf - n region we have examined the x - ray properties of a large sample of uv - selected , star forming galaxies with @xmath0 . in this paper",
    "we dealt exclusively with the 216 galaxies in the sample that are not directly detected in x - ray and whose emission should be predominately due to star formation processes ( analysis of the detected bbgs will be presented in an upcoming paper , laird et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "here we summarise our main results :    1 .   stacking",
    "the soft band flux from the undetected bbgs resulted in a highly significant , 14.9@xmath1 detection .",
    "the detected signal corresponds to a mean flux per galaxy of @xmath85  erg  s@xmath3  @xmath28 ( 0.52  kev ) and a mean luminosity of l@xmath86  erg  s@xmath3 .",
    "2 .   stacking the hard band flux also resulted in a significant detection of low level emission .",
    "we find a mean 2 - 10  kev flux per undetected bbg of @xmath87  erg  s@xmath3  @xmath28 .",
    "3 .   the hardness ratio of the sample , hr@xmath88 , is consistent with a @xmath57 unabsorbed power - law spectrum .",
    "this is consistent with the integrated spectrum from hmxbs and supports the general interpretation that the detected emission is due to normal star formation processes .",
    "4 .   the mean x - ray derived sfr of the sample of undetected bbgs is @xmath4 m@xmath5 .",
    "the ratio of x - ray derived sfr to uv derived sfr , an indication of the average uv attenuation factor , is 3 .",
    "5 .   splitting the sample into subsets based on observed - frame optical magnitudes and colours and stacking",
    "the x - ray flux in each bin produced significant detections , allowing correlations between x - ray and uv emission to be examined .",
    "we find clear correlations between x - ray flux and rest - frame uv flux ( over the range @xmath618004000   ) such that galaxies that are brighter in the uv are also brighter in x - ray .",
    "there is no evidence for a correlation between uv colour or uv colour excess and x - ray flux .",
    "correlations between colour excess and the ratio of x - ray - to - uv sfrs ( which measures uv attenuation ) are seen , whereby the ratio of x - ray - to - uv increases with uv redness . using the data we derive a relation for estimating uv attenuation corrections from uv colour excess .",
    "the observed relation between colour excess and attenuation is found to be inconsistent with the @xcite and mhc99 extinction curve which over predict the range in attenuation corrections for the galaxies in this sample by a factor of @xmath6100 .",
    "we thank the referee for helpful comments that improved the manuscript and the _ chandra _ x - ray center for assistance with some analysis and software issues .",
    "d. rosa - gonz ' alez is thanked for many useful discussions .",
    "esl acknowledges the support of a pparc studentship and a university of london valerie myerscough prize .",
    "adelberger k.  l. , steidel c.  c. , 2000 , apj , 544 , 2 adelberger k.  l. , steidel c.  c. , shapley a.  e. , hunt m.  p. , erb d.  k. , reddy n.  a. , pettini m. , 2004 , apj , 607 , 266 alexander d.  m.  et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 126 , 539 bell e.  f. , 2002 , apj , 577 , 150 brandt w.  n. , hornschemeier a.  e. , schneider d.  p. , alexander d.  m. , bauer f.  e. , garmire g.  p. , vignali c. , 2001 , apjl , 558 , l5 calzetti d. , kinney a.  l. , storchi - bergmann t. , 1994 , apj , 429 , 582 calzetti d. , armus l. , bohlin r.  c. , kinney a.  l. , koornneef j. , storchi - bergmann t. , 2000 , apj , 533 , 682 david l.  p. , jones c. , forman w. , 1992 , apj , 388 , 82 fabbiano g. , 1989 , ara&a , 27 , 87 giavalisco m. , 2002 , ara&a , 40 , 579 grimm h .- j . , gilfanov m. , sunyaev r. , 2002 , a&a , 391 , 923 grimm h .- j .",
    ", gilfanov m. , sunyaev r. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 793 ho l.  c. , filippenko a.  v. , sargent w.  l.  w. , 1997 , apj , 487 , 568 ho l.  c. , et al . , 2001 , apj , 549 , l5 hornschemeier a.  e. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 554 , 742 hughes d.  h. , et al . , 1998 , nat , 394 , 241 kennicutt r.  c. , 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 189 lehmer b.  d. , et al . , 2005 ,",
    "aj , 129 , 1 lilly s.  j. , le fevre o. , hammer f. , crampton d. , 1996 , apj , 460 , l1 madau p. , ferguson h.  c. , dickinson m.  e. , giavalisco m. , steidel c.  c. , fruchter a. , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 1388 marshall h.  l. , tennant a. , grant c.  e. , hitchcock a.  p. , odell s.  l. , plucinsky p.  p. , 2004",
    ", spie , 5165 , 497 meurer g.  r. , heckman t.  m. , calzetti d. , 1999 , apj , 521 , 64 nandra k. , mushotzky r.  f. , arnaud k. , steidel c.  c. , adelberger k.  l. , gardner j.  p. , teplitz h.  i. , windhorst r.  a. , 2002 , apj , 576 , 625 nandra k. , et al . , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 568 persic m. , rephaeli y. , braito v. , cappi m. , della ceca r. , franceschini a. , gruber d.  e. , 2004 , a&a , 419 , 849 ptak a. , serlemitsos p. , yaqoob t. , mushotzky r. , 1999 , apjs , 120 , 179 ranalli p. , comastri a. , setti g. , 2003 , a&a , 399 , 39 reddy n.  a. , steidel c.  c. , 2004 , apj , 603 , l13 seibert m. , heckman t.  m. , meurer g.  r. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 46 stark a.  a. , gammie c.  f. , wilson r.  w. , bally j. , linke r.  a. , heiles c. , hurwitz m. , 1992 , apjs , 79 , 77 steidel c.  c. , giavalisco m. , pettini m. , dickinson m. , adelberger k.  l. , 1996 , apj , 462 , l17 steidel c.  c. , adelberger k.  l. , giavalisco m. , dickinson m. , pettini m. , 1999 , apj , 519 , 1 steidel c.  c. , adelberger k.  l. , shapley a.  e. , pettini m. , dickinson m. , giavalisco m. , 2003 , apj , 592 , 728 steidel c.  c. , shapley a.  e. , pettini m. , adelberger k.  l. , erb d.  k. , reddy n.  a. , hunt m.  p. , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 604 , 534 wirth g.  d. , et al . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 127 , 3121"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an analysis of the x - ray emission from a large sample of ultraviolet ( uv ) selected , star forming galaxies with @xmath0 in the _ hubble deep field _ north ( hdf - n ) region . by excluding all sources with significant detected x - ray emission in the 2  ms _ chandra _ observation we are able to examine the properties of galaxies for which the dominant emission in both uv and x - ray is expected to be predominantly due to star formation . stacking the x - ray flux from 216 galaxies in the soft and hard bands produces significant detections ( 14.9@xmath1 and 3.2@xmath1 , respectively ) . </S>",
    "<S> the derived mean 210  kev rest - frame luminosity is @xmath2  erg  s@xmath3 , corresponding to an x - ray derived star formation rate ( sfr ) of @xmath4 m@xmath5 . comparing the x - ray value with the mean uv derived sfr , uncorrected for attenuation , we find that the average uv attenuation correction factor is @xmath63 . by binning the galaxy sample according to uv magnitude and colour , and stacking the observed frame soft band x - ray flux in each bin , </S>",
    "<S> correlations between uv and x - ray emission are examined . </S>",
    "<S> we find a strong positive correlation between x - ray emission and rest - frame uv emission , consistent with a strict linear relationship , l@xmath7 , at the 90 per cent level . a correlation between the ratio of x - ray - to - uv emission and uv colour </S>",
    "<S> is also seen , such that @xmath8 increases for redder galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find no direct relation between x - ray flux and uv colour . </S>",
    "<S> given that x - ray emission offers a view of star formation regions that is relatively unaffected by extinction , results such as these can be used to evaluate the effects of dust on the uv emission from high-@xmath9 galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> for instance , using the observed correlation between uv colour excess and the ratio of x - ray - to - uv emission  a measure of uv obscuration  we derive a relationship for estimating uv attenuation corrections as a function of colour excess . the observed relation is inconsistent with the @xcite reddening law which over predicts the range in uv attenuation corrections by a factor of @xmath6100 for the uv selected @xmath9@xmath61 galaxies in this sample .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : starburst  galaxies : high - redshift  x - rays : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}