{
  "article_text": [
    "the topology of the neutral interstellar medium ( ism ) can be studied in great detail by the spatial and velocity structures in the neutral gas .",
    "a recent high - resolution survey of the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) reveals that the structure of the neutral atomic inter stellar gas is dominated by numerous holes and shells as well as complex filamentary structure ( @xcite ) .",
    "these features are commonly seen in recent high - resolution images of nearby galaxies obtained with radio synthesis interferometers ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) . in general , the shell - like and hole structure seen in has been understood as the cumulative effect of stellar winds from massive stars and supernova explosions evacuating the cool ism ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "however , the extensive study of shells in the lmc shows that there is a relatively weak correlation between the shells and the ionized gas traced out by the regions and filaments ( @xcite ) .",
    "furthermore , the correlation between the shells and 122 ob stellar associations in the lmc is not very tight ( @xcite ) .",
    "rhode et al . ( 1999 ) claimed that there is no remnant star clusters at the center of the holes in holmberg ii , and it is inconsistent with the sne hypothesis .",
    "moreover an energy source generating the kpc - scale supergiant holes is a puzzle .",
    "these issues raise an interesting question about whether shells / holes have been formed by the interaction between stars and the ism or not .",
    "recent hydrodynamical simulations by wada & norman ( 1999 ) demonstrate that a gravitationally and thermally unstable disk , which models an ism in galaxies , can generate the cold , dense clumps and filaments surrounded by hot , diffuse medium .",
    "they show that porous structure is a natural consequence of the non - linear evolution of the ism .",
    "this result strongly suggests that some fraction of shells , supershells or holes seen in galaxies does not relate to the interaction between stellar activities and the ism .",
    "the other important component of the ism is the molecular gas .",
    "molecular clouds are potential sites of star formation , but their formation mechanism , and the relationship between their evolution and star formation have been poorly understood .",
    "dense molecular hydrogen is traced by the rotational transition of co , and a recent high resolution survey of @xmath5co ( j@xmath61 - 0 ) in the lmc with nanten , which is 4 m millimeter - wave telescope at las campanas observatory , established a comprehensive view of the giant molecular clouds in the lmc ( @xcite ) . since the gas clumps , whose size is typically @xmath7 pc , in the simulations by wada & norman ( 1999 ) are dense ( @xmath8 @xmath9 ) and cold ( @xmath10 k ) , they are counterparts of the observed giant molecular clouds in the lmc or other galaxies .    using numerical simulations , feitzinger et al .",
    "( 1981 ) and gardiner , turfus , & putman ( 1998 ) have studied global dynamics of the ism and star formation in the lmc .",
    "although the numerical methods they used are different , the stochastic self - propagating star formation model ( e.g. seiden & gerola 1984 ) in feitzinger et al .",
    "( 1981 ) and sticky particle method in gardiner , turfus , & putman ( 1998 ) , are both phenomenological concerning the structure and dynamics of the ism and star formation processes . unfortunately the spatial resolution ( 100 pc in feitzinger et al .",
    "1981 ) and mass resolution ( 6@xmath11 , which corresponds to @xmath12 pc for @xmath13 @xmath9 and @xmath14 pc , in gardiner , turfus , & putman 1998 ) in these simulations are not good enough for comparison between models and the recent high resolution observations ( @xmath15 15 pc for hi ( @xcite ) and @xmath16 40 pc for co ( j@xmath61 - 0 ) ( @xcite ) ) .    in this paper , we apply the numerical scheme used in wada & norman ( 1999 ) to a lmc - type model galaxy , and we conduct two - dimensional hydrodynamical simulations of the multi - phase ism in a lmc - like model galaxy , taking into account self - gravity of the gas , radiative cooling and various heating processes , such as supernova explosions .",
    "high spatial resolution ( 7.8 pc ) and a modern hydrodynamical scheme allow us to model the star formation and its feedback less phenomenologically , and therefore it needs less assumptions than the previous semi - analytic and numerical approaches ( e.g. a review by @xcite ) .",
    "in contrast to the model used in wada & norman ( 1999 ) , the rotation curve assumed here is nearly rigid as suggested in the lmc or other lmc - type dwarf galaxies .",
    "we derive the and co brightness map from the simulations",
    ". then we compare these simulation results with the and co observations of the lmc .    in  2",
    ", we describe our numerical method and models . in  3 ,",
    "the numerical results with and without star formation are discussed on morphology and statistical structure of the ism , then they are compared with the observations .",
    "position - velocity diagrams derived from the numerical results are also discussed .",
    "comparison with past numerical simulations and other implications are discussed in  4 , and conclusions are presented in  5 .",
    "taking into account the multi - phase and inhomogenous nature of the ism is crucial for realistic simulations of global star formation in galaxies .",
    "stars are formed preferentially in cold molecular gas , and supernovae produce low density , high temperature gas .",
    "interaction between such different phases are also impornant ( e.g. @xcite ; @xcite ) . in order to simulate dynamics of the inhomogeous , multi - phase interstellar matter and star formation , our numerical method has following features .",
    "( 1 ) high spatial resolution ( 7.8 pc ) , for diffuse gas to high density gas .",
    "we use an euler mesh code with 1024@xmath17 cartesian grid points .",
    "( 2 ) the simulations are global in order to study effects of galactic rotation and other kpc scale phenomena to the local structure of the ism . ( 3 ) self - gravity of the gas is calculated .",
    "( 4 ) radiative cooling for gas whose temperature is between @xmath18 k and 10 k is taken into account .",
    "( 5 ) various heating processes are included .",
    "here we assume photoelectric heating due to dust grains and uv radiation , sn explosions , and stellar wind from massive stars .",
    "( 6 ) high numerical accuracy for shocks is achieved with a modern hydrodynamical scheme .",
    "this is crucial , because the ism is usually supersonic , and sne produce strong shocks .",
    "we solve the following hydrodynamical equations and the poisson equation numerically in two dimensions to simulate the evolution of a rotating gas disk in a stellar potential .",
    "@xmath19    @xmath20    @xmath21 = \\gamma_{\\rm uv } + \\gamma_{\\rm \\star}-\\rho \\lambda(t_g ) , \\label{eqn : en}\\ ] ]    @xmath22    where , @xmath23 are the density , pressure , and velocity of the gas , and the specific total energy @xmath24 , with @xmath25 .",
    "we assume a time - independent external potential @xmath26 , where @xmath27 kpc is a core radius of the potential and @xmath28 km s@xmath1 is the maximum rotational velocity , and they are determined to mimic the rotation curve of the lmc ( @xcite ) . since the total gas mass is about 10 % of the total dynamical mass ( see below ) , the effect of self - gravity of the gas to the rotation curve is not significant .",
    "in fact the rotation curve after the system evolves is close to the rigid rotation ( see  3.3 and the position - velocity diagrams in fig .",
    "we also assume a cooling function @xmath29 ( @xmath30 k ) ( @xcite ) .",
    "the cooling processes taken into account are , ( 1 ) recombination of h , he , c , o , n , si and fe , ( 2 ) collisional excitation of hi , ci - iv and oi - iv , ( 3 ) hydrogen and helium bremsstrahlung , ( 4 ) vibrational and rotational excitation of h@xmath31 and ( 5 ) atomic and molecular cooling due to fine - strucure emission of c , c@xmath32 and o , and rotational line emission of co and h@xmath31 . as a heating source , @xmath33",
    ", we assume a uniform uv radiation field ( @xcite ) , which is normalized to the local interstellar value , and photoelectric heating by grains and pahs .",
    "the bulk of the heating for the @xmath34 k gas is provided by photo - emission of uv irradiated dust grains ( @xcite ) .",
    "we consider two feedback effects of massive stars on the gas dynamics , namely stellar winds and supernova explosions , although our results show that the former is less effective than the latter .",
    "we first identify cells which satisfy criteria for star formation .",
    "the criteria are a surface density threshold @xmath35 and a critical temperature @xmath36 below which star formation is allowed .",
    "the surface density is defined as @xmath37 , where @xmath38 is the scale height and assumed to be constant ( 100 pc ) . in these simulations",
    "we take @xmath39 pc@xmath40 and @xmath41 k ( model ` star formation 1 ' , hereafter ` sf1 ' ) and ten times larger threshold density , @xmath42 pc@xmath40 and @xmath41 k ( model sf2 ) .",
    "these criteria are chosen to satisfy the condition , @xmath43 or @xmath44 , where @xmath45 and @xmath46 are the jeans length and the size of each cell .",
    "the volume filling factors of the star - forming cells to the total volume are typically @xmath47 and @xmath48 for model sf1 and sf2 , respectively . namely the star forming sites are cold , clumpy regions .",
    "we also assume the star - forming criteria must last during @xmath49 yr for each cell before the star formation is initiated .",
    "since the spatial resolution is fine enough compared to the gmc size , we do not have to assume any global criteria for gravitational instability to identify star forming sites .",
    "assuming the salpeter imf with @xmath50 and @xmath51 , we create test particles representing massive stars ( @xmath52 ) in the star forming cell .",
    "the kinematics of the test particles in the external potential and the self - gravity potential of the gas are traced by the second - order time - integration method .",
    "the stars ( test particles ) inject energy due to stellar winds during their lifetime which is approximately @xmath53 yr ( @xcite ) .",
    "when one of stars represented by a test particle explodes as supernova , an energy of @xmath54 ergs is injected into the cell as thermal energy where the test particle is located at that moment .",
    "the cooling procedure is not used for such cells , but the cells adjoining the supernova cell are treated normally .",
    "evolution of the supernova remnant is very dependent on its environment .",
    "in contrast to past numerical studies of the ism with supernova explosions on a galaxy scale , we do not introduce simple evolutionary models for the snr , such as the sedov solution , and heating efficiency for the ism due to a supernova . with our code , two - dimensional evolution of blast waves caused by supernovae in an inhomogeneous and turbulent medium with global rotation is simulated explicitly .",
    "therefore , we can trace consistently the thermal and dynamical evolution of the ism around the star forming regions and the associated supernovae remnants and superbubbles ( c.f .",
    "@xcite )    the hydrodynamic part of the basic equations is solved by the third - order ausm ( advection upstream splitting method ) ( @xcite ) . after testing this code for various hydrodynamical 1-d and 2-d problems",
    ", we find that ausm is as powerful a scheme for astrophysical problems as are the ppm ( @xcite ) and zeus ( @xcite ) codes .",
    "more details about our numerical code and test results are described in wada & norman ( 2000 , in preparation ) .",
    "we use @xmath55 cartesian grid points covering a 8 kpc @xmath56 8 kpc region .",
    "the spatial resolution is 7.8 pc .",
    "a periodic green function is used to calculate the self - gravity for the 8 kpc @xmath56 8 kpc region with @xmath57 grid points ( @xcite ) .",
    "the second - order leap - frog method is used for the time integration .",
    "we adopt implicit time integration for the cooling term in equation ( 3 ) .",
    "the initial disk is an axisymmetric and rotationally supported ( @xmath58 kpc ) with uniform surface density , @xmath59 pc@xmath40 , and the total gas mass is @xmath60 ( @xcite ) .",
    "random density and temperature fluctuations are added to the initial disk .",
    "amplitude of the initial fluctuations is less than 5 % of the unperturbed values and have an approximately white noise distribution .",
    "the initial temperature is set to @xmath61 k ( @xmath62 kpc ) and @xmath63 k ( @xmath64 kpc ) .",
    "the reason why we chose the low temperature in the outer region is to avoid the numerical artifact of the boundaries , i.e. reflection and generation of waves or shocks , for the initial evolution of the gas disk . in ghost zones at the boundaries of the calculating region ( i.e. @xmath65 kpc@xmath17 ) ,",
    "all physical quantities remain at their initial values during the calculations . from test runs",
    "we found that this boundary condition is much better than ` outflow ' boundaries , because the latter cause strong unphysical reflection of waves at the boundaries .",
    "figure 1 shows the time evolution of density and temperature of a model without star formation and its feedback ( hereafter we call this model `` model nsf '' ) . due to gravitational and thermal instability in the gas disk ,",
    "clumpy fluctuations evolve in the first @xmath18 yr , and then the clumps merge and form larger structure .",
    "they are deformed by the local tidal field and global shear in the non - linear phase , and as a result , filamentary structure is formed .",
    "higher density clumps ( @xmath66 pc@xmath40 ) are formed in the filaments due to the gravitational instability , or collisions between the filaments .",
    "the high temperature cavities ( @xmath67 k ) are formed due to shock heating .",
    "the dynamical time scale for the large ( @xmath68 pc ) high temperature ( @xmath69 k ) region seen in the temperature panel at @xmath70 myr is @xmath71 pc@xmath7220 km s@xmath73 yr .",
    "the cooling time , @xmath74 on the other hand , for this low density region ( @xmath75 ) is @xmath76 yr ( spitzer 1977 ) , which is comparable to @xmath77 .",
    "in fact the high temperature cavity is a tentative structure that lasts @xmath78 yr . photo - electric heating and uv irradiation contribute to form @xmath79 k gas . in the high density ( @xmath80 pc@xmath40 ) filaments and clouds , the temperature is less than 100 k because the radiative cooling is effective .",
    "the global strucure of the disk does not change significantly after 400 myr , and it reaches a quasi - steady state .",
    "figure 2 is time evolution of the volume filling factor , @xmath81 , of each temperature level and time evolution of the maximum density .",
    "this also represents that the global ( @xmath82 kpc scale ) system reaches a quasi - stationally state after @xmath83 myr .",
    "this period is comparable to the local free fall time @xmath84 for the initial density , @xmath85 pc@xmath86 myr . at the global quasi - steady state ,",
    "the warm gases ( @xmath87 k ) occupy a large volume ( @xmath15 60 % of the whole calculating region ) , and @xmath88 20 % for the cold ( @xmath89 k ) and @xmath88 20 % for hot gas ( @xmath90 k ) .",
    "the maximum density in the same plot show slower evolution after @xmath83 myr than the non - linear evolutional phase .",
    "one should note , however , that the globally stable state does not mean the local filamentary and porous structure whose scale is less than 1 kpc .",
    "it is rather quite dynamic and transient , which is similar to the past turbulent ism models ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "clump mass is increasing during the initial linear and non - linear evolutional phase ( @xmath91 myr ) due to the mass accretion and merging with other clumps or filaments , but in the quasi - stationally phase , disruption processes of the clumps , such as local tidal field ( e.g. interaction between clumps , or shear ) or shocks , prevent monotonic increase of the mass of each clump . since we introduce the cutoff temperature for the cooling ( i.e. 10 k ) , the gaseous pressure prevent the dense clouds further collapsing towards singularities .",
    "the angular momentum also supports the clouds ( see  3.3 ) .",
    "the density and temperature structures ( fig . 1 ) are similar to those in the model of wada & norman ( 1999 ) , where a smaller disk is investigated ( the radius is 1 kpc ) , but the present model shows kpc - scale inhomogeneity and a more asymmetric distribution against the galactic center .",
    "this difference is probably caused by the difference of the rotation curves used in the two models : a rigid rotation or differential rotation . with a rigid rotation",
    ", random and turbulent motion dominates the circular rotation in the central region . with the global shear , on the other hand , global spirals develop toward the galactic center .",
    "figure 3 represents density and temperature maps of the model sf2 at @xmath92 myr .",
    "the model sf1 , which has ten times smaller threshold density for the star formation criterion ( see  2 ) , shows very similar density morphology and temperature structure .",
    "the red regions in the temperature map are hot gaseous regions where @xmath93 k. they are young ( @xmath94 yr ) supernova remnants .",
    "figure 3 also shows that most young supernova remnants are not axisymmetric .",
    "this is caused by that the background ism is highly inhomogeous , and the radiative cooling at the dense filaments is so effective , and that it prevents the blastwaves expanding axi - symmetrically .",
    "typical size of the hot cavities is less than 500 pc .",
    "some bubbles together form kpc scale ` super bubbles ' .",
    "the hot region around @xmath95 is one of the examples .",
    "note that the size of the cavities is expected to change away from the galactic plane in a 3-d model ( see also  4 ) .",
    "although the filamentary and clumpy structures of the gas which result in the star forming models are similar to those of model nsf , the kpc scale inhomogeneity seen in the the model ( fig .",
    "1 ) is not apparent in the sf models .",
    "the large scale inhomogeneity in the model sf1 and sf2 is less prominent than that of the model nsf .",
    "this is because that the time scale for making the kpc - scale holes , which is a dynamical time scale , @xmath96 yr , is much longer than the the time scale for supernova explosions and evolution of the blastwaves , @xmath97 yr . approximately @xmath98 supernovae per kpc@xmath17 explode in this model during @xmath96 yr .",
    "the kpc - scale low density cavities , which is formed due to evacuation of gas by the effect of the gravitational and thermal instabilities , can not evolve under such frequent supernova explosions .",
    "we find that the supernova rate is fluctuate in a time scale @xmath78 yr , but it stays in a range 4 - 10@xmath99 yr@xmath1 during 6@xmath100 yr in model sf2 ( fig .",
    "this behavior also appears in model sf1 , but the sn rate becomes smaller for the larger threshold density ( @xmath16 8 - 12@xmath99 yr@xmath1 ) .",
    "rosat observed 46 supernova remnants and more candidates in the lmc ( @xcite ) .",
    "if we assume the ages of snrs are between @xmath16 10000 yrs and @xmath15 30000 yrs , then we have sn explosion every 250 yrs or 750 yrs .",
    "this indicates about 0.0013/yr or 0.004/yr for sn rate in the lmc .",
    "if we use the larger threshold density for the star formation in our model than that in model sf2 , this results in smaller supernova rate than @xmath0 yr@xmath1 .",
    "therefore the threshold density much larger than @xmath101 pc@xmath40 would be excluded for modeling the lmc , if we assume that the star formation efficiency is 10 % or less and the standard imf .    in figure 5 ,",
    "the star particles at @xmath102 myr in model sf1 are plotted , and one may compare it to the density distribution ( the right panel ) of the same snapshot .",
    "massive stars are not uniformly distributed , but they form clusters ( ` ob associations ' ) .",
    "it is notable that the distribution of the star clusters does not necessarily correlate to the inhomogenous gaseous structure .",
    "in other words , cavities are not necessarily associate with the ` ob associations ' .",
    "this is also seen in simulations by other groups , for example 2-d simulations of a highly compressible isobaric , non - selfgravitational fluid with star formation ( @xcite ) .      with the numerical simulations",
    ", we have density , temperature , and velocity fields ( spatial resolution : 7.8 pc ) . using this information as an input , we compute 21 cm brightness map and co ( j=1 - 0 ) line map for model nsf and sf1 and sf2 .",
    "these maps can be directly compared with the recent high resolution surveys of the lmc : with atca ( kim et al . 1998 ) and co ( j=1 - 0 ) with nanten ( @xcite ) .    with the numerical results described above",
    ", the following procedure is followed to compute a 21 cm brightness map .",
    "it is assumed that atomic hydrogen is in mostly neutral form in those regions where the temperature is at least a factor of 2 less than 8000 k , a value typical of ( mostly ionized ) hii regions , and motivated by measurements of the kinetic temperatures of hi clouds and hi intercloud gas .",
    "it is also assumed that the level populations of interest follow a thermal distribution in those regions along the line of sight , and that this mostly neutral gas dominates the integrated emissivity .",
    "the line of sight is face - on , i.e. , perpendicular to the grid used for the hydrodynamic simulations .",
    "the two - dimensional density indeed is used as a column density in the radiative transfer calculations .",
    "the latter are done in three dimensions by assuming a scale height for the neutral gas of h=100 pc , thus converting the column density in a ( constant ) local density for each point along the line of sight .",
    "it is this three - dimensional grid , with two - dimensional hydrodynamic information , that is used to determine the central brightness temperature in the monte carlo procedure ( spaans 1996 ) , where the ambient radiation field and its interactions with matter is represented by a discrete number of `` photon packages '' .",
    "this method is three - dimensional and explicitly includes optical depth effects as well as the detailed velocity field of the hydrodynamical simulations for photons that travel along lines of sight that are not face - on .",
    "these latter photon trajectories need to be incorporated when the level populations are not in thermal equilibrium , i.e. , for co. a local velocity dispersion @xmath103 of @xmath104 cm s@xmath1 is adopted for a kinetic temperature @xmath105 , with a minimum of @xmath106 km s@xmath1 due to micro turbulent motions .",
    "for each grid point in the hydrodynamical simulation , the monte carlo radiative transfer then yields the integrated 21 cm intensity along the line of sight .    for the co ( j@xmath61 - 0 ) line ,",
    "the approach is similar to the case , with the appropriate correction factor in @xmath103 for the different atomic weight of the co molecule .",
    "furthermore , a carbon chemistry is added to compute the abundance of co ( @xcite ) , for a dust abundance equal to @xmath107 of solar .",
    "this chemistry is well understood ( @xcite ) , and care has been taken to include , for each computed line of sight and corresponding column density , the important self - shielding transitions of h@xmath31 and co ( c.f .",
    "the ambient average interstellar radiation field , required for the ambient chemical balance , is determined by scaling with the lmc b band surface brightness in mag per square arcsecond with respect to galactic .",
    "this typically yields an enhancement of a factor of @xmath108 in the mean lmc energy density compared to galactic .",
    "it is assumed , because the hydrodynamical simulations are two - dimensional , that , to compute the local co emissivity and the ambient chemical equilibrium , the gas density is given by the particular line of sight column density divided by a scale height of @xmath109 pc for the neutral gas .",
    "the latter number @xmath38 does not strongly influence the qualitative features in the presented maps .",
    "figure 6 presents 21 cm and co ( j=1 - 0 ) line brightness temperature maps calculated from the numerical data of the nsf model at @xmath70 myr , using the procedure described above .",
    "figure 7 is the same plot as fig .",
    "6 , but for model sf2 at @xmath110 myr .",
    "size of the filaments , shells , and holes in model nsf is @xmath15 1 kpc .",
    "the filaments and cavities in the outer region ( @xmath111 kpc ) of model sf2 are also kpc - scale .",
    "we would like to emphasize that large cavities ( @xmath82 kpc ) and filaments in model nsf are not caused by a direct dynamical effect of star forming activities , but by the non - linear development of gravitational and thermal instabilities .",
    "the co emission is localized in many clumps ( size @xmath15 10 - 100 pc ) or clouds complexes ( size @xmath15 0.1 - 1 kpc ) in model nsf .",
    "such co `` cloud '' complexes could be sites for active star forming regions , such as the 30 dor star forming region in the lmc .",
    "model sf2 shows more uniform distribution of `` stars '' than in model nsf .",
    "figure 8 ( a ) and ( b ) are mass spectra of _ molecular clouds _ obtained from the co brightness temperature ( @xmath112 ) distribution of models nsf and sf2 .",
    "we identify _ clouds _ and their mass by the following procedure .",
    "assuming a threshold @xmath112 for the co map ( figs . 6 and 7 ) , then we have many _ islands _ of co emission . most _ islands _ are not round in shape , but elongated or filament - like shape .",
    "we derive the mass of the _ islands _ using the surface density of the simulation data .",
    "therefore the mass in fig .",
    "8 is the total gas mass of each _ island _ , not the virial mass .",
    "here we plot three histograms for three different thresholds .",
    "the mass spectra shows a power - law , which is roughly @xmath113 for model nsf , where @xmath114 is number of clouds between the mass @xmath115 and @xmath116 , but this slope does not significantly depend on the threshold brightness . on the other hand , the spectrum of the star forming model steeper than the model without the energy feedback especially for small threshold : @xmath113 , @xmath117 , and @xmath118 for model sf2 with @xmath119 100 , 50 , and 30 k , respectively .",
    "the behavior of the slope to the threshold @xmath112 in the model nsf and sf2 means that the stellar energy feedback changes structure of low density envelope of the dense clumps .",
    "the nanten survey discovered about hundred molecular clouds in the lmc , and the mass spectrum of them is @xmath120 for a range between @xmath121 ( @xcite ) , where @xmath122 is the virial mass of the cloud estimated by using the observed line width . in our model ,",
    "smaller clouds ( @xmath123 ) tend to have smaller mass compared to their virial mass estimated from their internal velocity dispersions .",
    "in other words , the smaller clouds are not in equilibrium , but rather in a transient phase ( @xcite ) .",
    "we find a rather weak but positive correlation between the cloud mass @xmath115 and the virial mass @xmath124 in our model .",
    "the mass spectrum of the model sf2 would be @xmath125 , if we use the lowest threshold @xmath126 k. a similar discussion for the interpretation of the cloud mass spectra based on two - dimensional numerical simulations of the interstellar medium has been given by v@xmath127zquez - semadeni et al .",
    "( 1997 ) ( see  4 ) .    the maximal mass of the clouds is approximately @xmath128 and @xmath129 in models nsf and models with the star formation ( sf1 and sf2 ) .",
    "this implies that very massive clouds ( @xmath130 ) are difficult to grow under the frequent supernova explosions .",
    "the maximal masses of the observed molecular clouds are about @xmath128 ( @xcite ) , which seems to prefer the model nsf .",
    "however , this does not mean that the star formation and its energy feedback are not important for shaping the ism in the lmc , but it implies that the largest clouds could evolve in preferentially an environment where sne are not frequent .",
    "though one should be careful to make comparison between the observed and numerical mass spectrum , because the definition and identification of the `` cloud '' is not exactly identical , and it is related to noise level in observations .",
    "we also find that the map of the computational model shows similar statistical properties to the observed map .",
    "figure 9 shows the luminosity function , i.e. the histogram of the observed and numerical map of the lmc .",
    "the hi  brightness temperature has been computed from @xmath131 .",
    "@xmath132 is the hi  flux density , @xmath133 is the boltzmann constant , and @xmath134 is the solid angle of the synthesized beam of atca mosaiced map",
    ". the hi  intensity is determined from the integral of the brightness temperatures @xmath135 over the peak hi   line profile , where @xmath136 is the channel width in kilometers per second .",
    "the luminosity functions appear to be log - normal like distribution for both observed and model nsf .",
    "the distributions of the luminosity function of the model nsf and sf2 for lower surface brightness ( @xmath137 k ) are similar to the observed one .",
    "the model sf2 , on the other hand , shows excess above @xmath138 k than the observations .",
    "these high brightness regions are originated from shock compressed , dense gas .",
    "position - velocity ( pv ) diagrams give us information on the kinematics of the ism . in fig .",
    "10 ( a ) , we show the pv diagram , in which y - component of velocity ( @xmath139 ) is integrated through @xmath140-positions , for the gas @xmath141 pc@xmath40 in model nsf . many arc - like structures in fig . 10 ( a ) look like expanding shells originating from explosional phenomena in the ism .",
    "however , they are not caused by explosions because there is no energy input due to supernovae in model nsf .",
    "the arcs in the pv diagram are actually caused by the gases that form filament - like structure seen in the density map ( fig .",
    "1 ) . the filaments and shells exhibit non - circular motion of the order of 10 km s@xmath1 , and their shape continuously changed . here",
    "we would like to emphasize that , it is hard to distinguish , on the pv diagrams , between expanding shells and such shell - like structures which are changing in shape due to local random motion .    from fig .",
    "10 ( b ) , which is the same as fig .",
    "10(a ) , but for @xmath142 pc@xmath40 , we find that the dense and compact clumps , rotating with @xmath143 km s@xmath1 , which are recognized as steep ` dotted lines ' on the pv - diagram . here",
    "we can identify about 80 clumps , and about half of them show retrograde rotation against the sense of galactic rotation . a representative one",
    "can be seen at @xmath144 and less prominent one is at @xmath145 and @xmath146 .",
    "rotation of the clouds is important for the internal structure , motion , and star formation in the molecular clouds .",
    "unfortunately , the spatial resolution in the nanten survey ( @xmath147 pc ) is insufficient to resolve the rotation of each molecular clouds of the lmc .",
    "high resolution observations and statistical analysis of kinematics of molecular clouds in external galaxies are necessary to understand the formation of molecular clouds and star formation processes .",
    "figure 10 ( c ) shows the similar features shown in fig .",
    "10 ( a ) , but for model sf1 at @xmath148 610 myr .",
    "arc - like structures seen in the pv map for the nsf are not clearly shown in this map .",
    "this means that the line - of - sight velocity field is much more random and chaotic than the nsf model , and there is no prominent large - scale coherent motion in the ism of the model with stellar energy feedback .",
    "the comparison of our model calculations with the observations of the lmc indicates that the star formation models are more consistent with the formation of small ( @xmath149 kpc ) and hot bubbles ( @xmath150 @xmath82 10@xmath151 k ) , which have been detected by x - ray diffuse emission .",
    "the power law slope of cloud mass spectrum of the models is close to that of observed one . on the other hand , the model calculations without the stellar feedback show even better agreement with global inhomogeneity of the hi and",
    "co gas in the lmc , and also the hi distribution function is well represented in the model nsf .",
    "therefore , it is most likely that energy feedback to the ism from massive stars and supernovae explosions are important processes for producing hot gas , but they do not necessarily dominate dynamics and formation processes for the large scale inhomogeneity observed in and co gas in the lmc . however , one should note that the initial condition of the models ( i.e. axisymmetric and uniform density distributions ) causes nearly uniform star formations in the whole disk .",
    "if we begin the simulations from a more inhomogeous disk , stars will be formed non - uniformly , and effects of the stellar feedback are different , depending on location of the disk .",
    "we suspect that the more realistic model of the ism in the lmc - type galaxy would be between our two extreme cases , but that can not be achieved by changing the threshold density of the star forming model .    in our models with stellar feedback ,",
    "typical sizes of the hot cavities are less than 500 pc .",
    "some ` superbubbles ' can be formed in a outer disk region , and their linear sizes are @xmath15 kpc ( see fig .",
    "rosen & bregman ( 1995 ) revealed in their two - dimensional , two - fluid ( stars and gas ) simulations in a disk galaxy that hot bubbles are formed by stellar activities , and their sizes depend on the energy injection rate . in their simulations ,",
    "the linear size of the bubbles is up to @xmath152 pc for the supernova rate is 0.0075 - 0.03 yr@xmath1 .",
    "this rate is 1 - 2 orders of magnitude larger than that of our star forming models .",
    "local , three dimensional mhd simulations of the ism with supernova explosions by korpi et al .",
    "( 1999 ) show that the linear size of the superbubbles are typically 200 - 400 pc , which is consistent with our sf models .",
    "gazol - patino & passot ( 1999 ) compute the evolution of the ism in a region of the galactic plane of size 1 kpc@xmath17 in two - dimensional periodic domain .",
    "they found that superbubbles , and the largest one has linear scale is @xmath15 500 - 1000 pc , due to about 3000 supernova explosions in @xmath78 yr . the background density of their simulation is equivalent to that in the outer region of our simulations .",
    "the local ( @xmath153 kpc scale ) structure of the ism of our global simulations , where hot bubbles and cold filaments coexist , is also similar to the local , 2-d simulations of the ism with a periodic boundary condition ( @xcite ) . in a conclusion , the past local models with supernova explosions , in which superbubble formation is reported , consistent with our global models with stellar energy feedback concerning the size of the superbubbles .",
    "the cloud mass spectra of the model sf1 and sf2 are steeper than that of the model nsf ( fig .",
    "in other words , the stellar energy input affects the evolution of molecular clouds .",
    "v@xmath127zquez - semadeni , balleseros - paredes , & rodriguez ( 1997 ) ( hereafter vbr97 ) analyzed their 2-d hydromagnetic simulations and showed that the mass spectra have the form @xmath154 ( c.f . their fig .",
    "3 and our fig . 8) , and they reported that the mass spectra from observations are consistent with that from simulations in which the density filed had been shaped by stellar activity .",
    "note that our mass spectrum of the star formation models , the slope is shallower for smaller clouds ( @xmath155 ) than that for massive clouds ( @xmath156 ) .",
    "therefore our results might be consistent with the results of vbr97 ( see also  3.2 ) . however , direct comparison between these two results should not be straightforward , because there are number of differences between our simulations and theirs , on the numerical scheme ( ausm vs. pseudo spectral method ) , the boundary condition ( global simulations vs. local periodic boundary ) , and the cooling curve especially for @xmath89 k ( @xmath157 vs. @xmath158 ) .",
    "the maximum density contrast is about 5000 in their model , but it is about @xmath159 in our model .",
    "this difference is caused probably due to the difference of the cooling curve for the cold gas , and also due to the numerical scheme . in their numerical method",
    ", they added a mass diffusion term to the continuity equation in order to smooth out the density gradients ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "this could affect the structure of shocks and dense gas , i.e , the cloud mass spectrum .",
    "the recipe for the stellar energy feedback are also different .",
    "vbr97 assumed that once a star is formed , then it remains fixed with respect to the numerical grid . in our models , the star particles are orbited in the self - gravitational potential of the gas and the external fixed potential .",
    "the last point , however , would not be important , if number of stars is large enough , or the ism is fully turbulent .",
    "vbr97 , on the other hand , include the magnetic field in their models",
    ". therefore , again , one should be careful to make direct comparison between results in the present paper and vbr97 .",
    "our result implies that there are two mechanisms of cavity formation .",
    "one is the pure evacuation of gas from the low - density regions by the effect of the gravitational and thermal instabilities .",
    "similar evacuation phenomena ( @xcite ; @xcite ) are also observed in the simulations of the turbulent ism without sne ( @xcite ) .",
    "the other is the formation of cavities by the effect of sne , and especially by the synchronized explosions of stars in ob associations .",
    "the two processes are essential to produce the whole structure of the ism .",
    "the latter is necessary for hot ( @xmath160 k ) component of the ism .",
    "these two type of low - density regions are also observed in the two - dimensional , local simulations of the turbulent ism with sne by gazol & passot ( 1999 ) .    as mentioned in  1",
    ", the origin of supergiant holes in galaxies has been controversial ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "if the observed kpc - scale holes and shells are caused by explosional phenomena only , one needs highly energetic events , like gamma ray bursts ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , our numerical simulations give an alternative explanation about the origin of the large scale holes : the non - linear evolution of the multi - phase gas disk . in the multi - phase ism ,",
    "most of the gas mass is concentrated in the cold , dense clumps and filaments , but volume filling factor of such component is much smaller than that of hot , diffuse gas .",
    "the hot regions are surrounded by dense filaments as seen in fig .",
    "1 and fig .",
    "therefore the multi - phase ism in a quasi - steady state is naturally porous .",
    "our results suggest that if the energy feedback from massive stars are not effective , kpc - scale inhomogeneity can be evolved in a disk in about several @xmath18 yr .",
    "dense filaments are changing in shape due to local random velocity field as well as the global shear , and often show kinematics features similar to those of `` expanding shells '' as seen in the position - velocity map (  3.3 ) .",
    "we suspect that many supergiant holes and shells in dwarf galaxies do not have an explosion origin , but that supergiant shells far outside the disk plane can not be formed without explosional events .",
    "the work presented here yields the model for the ism in a lmc - type galaxy .",
    "nevertheless there are couple of things that one should consider for constructing a complete numerical model of the lmc including the interaction with the small magellanic cloud , the optical bar , and non - uniform uv radiation field due to active star forming regions , such as the 30 dor regions .",
    "the interactions with the smc are important events for the star formation history in the lmc and the magellanic stream ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the off - center optical bar could also perturb the global structure of the ism and star formation in the lmc ( @xcite ) .",
    "however the mapping ( @xcite ) does not show clear evidence of the stellar bar , namely off - set shocks which are often seen in barred galaxies .",
    "it would be interesting to investigate the effect of the off - center stellar bar in our model .",
    "this might contribute to the formation of the active star forming region , such as 30 dor region .    in the present paper ,",
    "we have not solved the vertical structure of the ism .",
    "it is expected that the hot component behaves differently in three dimensions .",
    "the hot gas , which is above @xmath161 k , can not be confined in the disk plane ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , and it would probably been blown out from the disk plane . the scale - height of the hot gas should be larger than the cold gas , and , as a result , the volume filling factor of the hot gas would be larger away from the disk plane .",
    "thus the radiative cooling would be less effective in the hot gas , in three dimensions",
    ". this may affect interaction between cold and hot components , and the feedback process on the ism .",
    "for example , it is more difficult to form the supergiant holes by sne . in a subsequent paper",
    ", we will extend our method to three - dimensional modeling , and investigate these problems .",
    "using high resolution hydrodynamical simulations , we have computed that the global dynamics and structure of the multi - phase ism in a lmc - type galaxy . due to gravitational and thermal instability in the gas disk ,",
    "clumpy fluctuations evolve , and then the clumps merge and form filamentary structure in the non - linear phase .",
    "higher density clumps are formed in the filaments due to the gravitational instability , or collisions between the filaments .",
    "our numerical model with the star formation allows us to provide the evolution of the blastwaves due to supernovae explosions in the rotating , inhomogeneous , multi - phase , and turbulent - like media .",
    "we find that the supernova rate in the model with stellar energy feedback is typically of the order of 0.001 yr@xmath1 during several hundred myrs , but fluctuates rapidly ( time scale @xmath15 10 myr ) by a factor of three or four .",
    "the model also shows that kpc - scale low density cavities seen in the observed map ( @xcite ) are difficult to be formed under frequent supernovae , but sne are necessary to form hot bubbles where the gaseous temperature is greater than @xmath162 k. our result suggests that there are two possible causes of low density regions in the ism .",
    "the kpc - scale inhomogeneity and arcs can be formed as a natural consequence of non - linear evolution of the multi - phase interstellar medium in a lmc - type galaxy .",
    "we find in the pv - diagram of the numerical models that filamentary structure in the non - star forming model , which are caused by the gravitational instability , has similar kinematics to the structure formed by sn explosions .",
    "the dense clouds are rotating , and about half of of them show retrograde rotation against the sense of galactic rotation . using the monte carlo radiative transfer code , we have computed and co brightness temperature distributions , and compared them with those from the recent observations . the co cloud mass spectrum in the model with stellar energy feedback is similar to the observed one ( @xcite ) , but distribution function is well fitted by the model without sne .",
    "therefore we conclude that the small scale structure and dynamics of the ism in the lmc is mainly affected by the stellar activities , but the gravitational instability significantly contributes to the global morphology and dynamics of the interstellar matter in a kpc - scale .",
    "we are grateful to colin norman for stimulating discussions",
    ". we also thank e. v@xmath127zquez - semadeni ( the referee ) for his fruitful comments and suggestions .",
    "numerical computations were carried out on vpp300/16r at the astronomical data analysis center of the national astronomical observatory , japan , vpp700 at the subaru observatory , hawaii , and vpp500 at riken , japan .",
    "we would like to thank r. ogasawara for his help at the subaru observatory .",
    "kw is supported in part by grant - in - aids for scientific research ( no .",
    "1113421 ) of japanese the ministry of education , culture , sports and science , and foundation for promotion of astronomy , japan .",
    "ms is supported by hubble fellowship grant hf-01101.01 - 97a , awarded by stsci .",
    "l avillez , m. a. d. d. 1999 , stromlo workshop on high - velocity clouds , eds .",
    "gibson , b.k .",
    "& putman , m.e . , asp conference series vol .",
    "166 , p. 103",
    ", 103 bakes , e. l. o. & tielens , a. g. g. m. 1994 , , 427 , 822 bania , t. m. & lyon , j. g. 1980 , , 239 , 173 chiang , w. -h . & bregman , j. n. 1988 , , 328 , 427 chiang , w. -h . & prendergast , k. h. 1985 , , 297 , 507 deul , e.r . & den hartog , r.h . 1990 , , 229 , 362 elmegreen , b. g. 1994 , , 433 , 39 feitzinger , v. , glassgold , a.e . , gerola , h. , & seiden , p.e . 1981 , a&ap , 98 , 371 fukui , y. , et al .",
    "1999 , pasj , 51 , 745 gardiner , l. t. & noguchi , m. 1996 , , 278 , 191 gardiner , l.t . , turfus , c. , & putman , m.e . , 1998 , apj , 507 , l35 gazol - patino , a. , & passot , t. , 1999 , apj 518 , 748 gerritsen , j.p.e . ,",
    "icke , v. , 1997 , a&ap , 325,972 haberl , f. & pietsch , w. 1999 , , 139 , 277 hockney , r. w. , & eastwood , j. w. 1981 , computer simulation using particles ( new york : mcgraw hill ) ikeuchi , s. , habe , a. , & tanaka , y.d .",
    "1984 , , 207 , 909 kim , s. , staveley - smith , l. , dopita , m.a . ,",
    "freeman , k.c . , sault , r.j . ,",
    "kesteven , m.j . , & mcconnell , d. , 1998 , apj , 503 , 674 kim , s. , dopita , m.a .",
    ", staveley - smith , l. , bessell , m. 1999 , aj , 118 , 2797 .",
    "kim , s. & chu , y .- h .",
    "2000 , in preparation .",
    "korpi , m. j. , brandenburg , a. , shukurov , a. & tuominen , i. 1999 , , 350 , 230 liou , m. , steffen , c. 1993 , j.comp.phys . , 107 , 23 loeb , a. & perna , r. 1998 , , 503 , l35 leitherer , c. , robert , c. & drissen , l. 1992 , , 401 , 596 mckee , c.f . &",
    "ostriker , j.p .",
    "1977 , apj , 218,148 murai , t. & fujimoto , m. 1980 , , 32 , 581 norman , c.a . , & ikeuchi , s. 1989 , apj , 345 , 372 oey , m. s. 1996 , , 467 , 666 oey , m. s. & clarke , c. j. 1997 , , 289 , 570 passot , t. , v@xmath127zquez - semadeni , e. , & pouquet , a. 1995 , apj , 455 , 536 puche , d. , westpfahl , d. , brinks , e. & roy , j. -r . 1992 , , 103 , 1841 rhode , k.l . , salzer , j.j . , westpfahl , d.j . , & radice , l.a . 1999 ,",
    "aj in press ( astro - ph/9904065 ) rosen , a. , bregman , j.n . , 1995 , , 440 , 634 scalo , j. , chappell , d. , 1999 , apj 510 , 258 seiden , p. e. & gerola , h. 1982 , fundamentals of cosmic physics , 7 , 241 shore , s. n. & ferrini , f. 1995 , fundamentals of cosmic physics , 16 , 1 spaans , m. , tielens , a. g. g. m. , van dishoeck , e. f. & bakes , e. l. o. 1994 , , 437 , 270 spaans , m. 1996 , , 307 , 271 spaans , m. , norman c. , 1997 , , 483,87 spaans , m. & van dishoeck , e. f. 1997 , , 323 , 953 spitzer , l. 1978 , john wiley & sons , inc . , new york , p. 139 stanimirovic , s. , staveley - smith , l. , dickey , j. m. , sault , r. j. & snowden , s. l. 1999 , , 302 , 417 stone , j. , & norman , m.n .",
    "1992 , apjs , 80,753 staveley - smith , l. , sault , r. j. , hatzidimitriou , d. , kesteven , m. j. & mcconnell , d. 1997 , , 289 , 225 tenorio - tagle , g. 1988 , ara&a , 26 , 145 v@xmath127zquez - semadeni , e. , passot , t. & pouquet , a. 1995 , apj , 441 , 702 v@xmath127zquez - semadeni , e. , passot , t. & pouquet , a. 1996 , apj , 473,881 v@xmath127zquez - semadeni , e. , balleseros - paredes , j. , & rodriguez , l.f . , 1997 , apj , 474 , 292 van der hulst , j.m .",
    "1996 , in asp conf : ser . vol .",
    "106 : the minnesota lectures on extragalactic neutral hydrogen , ed .",
    "skillman ( asp : san francisco ) , 47 van dishoeck , e. f. & black , j. h. 1988 , , 334 , 771 vallenari , a. , chiosi , c. , bertelli , g. & ortolani , s. 1996 , , 309 , 358 wada , k. , & norman , c. , 1999 , apj , 516 , l13 walter , f. & brinks , e. 1999 , , 118 , 273 woodward , p. r. , & colella , p. 1984",
    ", j.comp.phys . , 54 , 115"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> based on our high resolution , two - dimensional hydrodynamical simulations , we propose that large cavities may be formed by the nonlinear development of the combined thermal and gravitational instabilities , without need for stellar energy injection in a galaxy modeling the large magellanic clouds ( lmc ) . </S>",
    "<S> our numerical model of the star formation allows us to follow the evolution of the blastwaves due to supernovae in the inhomogeous , multi - phase , and turbulent - like media self - consistently . </S>",
    "<S> formation of kpc - scale inhomogeneity , such as cavities , observed map of the lmc , is suppressed by frequent supernovae ( average supernova rate for the whole disk is @xmath0 yr@xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> however the supernova explosions are necessary for the hot component ( @xmath2 k ) . </S>",
    "<S> position - velocity maps show that kpc - scale shells / arcs formed through the nonlinear evolution in a model without stellar energy feedback has similar kinematics to explosional phenomena , such as supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that dense clumps and filamentary structure are formed due to a natural consequence of the non - linear evolution of the multi - phage ism . </S>",
    "<S> although the ism in a small scale looks turbulent - like and transient , the global structure of the ism is quasi - stable . in the quasi - stable phase , the volume filling factor of the hot , warm , cold components are @xmath3 , and @xmath4 , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the observations of and molecular gas of the lmc with the numerically obtained and co brightness temperature distribution . </S>",
    "<S> the morphology and statistical properties of the numerical and co maps are discussed . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the cloud mass spectrum of our models represent a power - law shape , but their slopes change between models with and without the stellar energy injection , and also the slope depends on the threshold brightness temperature of co.    # 1 </S>"
  ]
}