{
  "article_text": [
    "cold dark matter ( cdm ) has had considerable success in accounting for the observed large - scale structure of our universe . on galactic and sub - galactic scales , however , the abundance of low - mass structure and the degree of concentration of dark matter halos predicted by cdm simulations have provoked a considerable amount of discussion . to clarify how cdm behaves on the smallest scales , diemand and collaborators recently performed the highest resolution numerical simulations of dark matter clustering to date ( diemand et al . 2005 ) .",
    "these simulations start with an initial spectrum of density fluctuations extending down to the free - streaming mass of the dark matter candidate , which for a generic weakly interacting 100 gev particle ( such as a supersymmetric neutralino ) is roughly @xmath0 , where freeze - out occurs at an epoch @xmath1 .",
    "as expected from scaling the results of simulations on larger scales , fluctuations in this initial distribution collapse and virialize to form structures with roughly 200 times the background density at a redshift of @xmath2 this first generation of microhalos survives to some degree as substructure in the larger halos that form subsequently in the simulations . extrapolating to the present - day , diemand et al .",
    "2005 suggest that @xmath3 earth - mass clumps should survive in the halo of the milky - way , amounting to about 0.1% of its total mass .",
    "if this were the case , the nearest earth - mass clump would be on the order of 0.1 pc distant from the earth and would have a typical size of 0.01 pc .",
    "such nearby clumps might be observable as sources of gamma - rays , produced in dark matter annihilations .",
    "they might also contribute to diffuse cosmic ray fluxes of positrons or anti - protons . in order to motivate experimental searches , however , it is important to determine whether the predicted small clumps of dark matter would actually survive the grainy tidal field due to stars while crossing the galactic bulge and disk @xmath4 times .",
    "here we estimate the rate at which earth - mass clumps are disrupted in stellar encounters . we show that the nearest clumps in a galaxy like the milky way are likely to be tidally disrupted by repeated encounters over a hubble time . nevertheless , tidal debris from individual clumps may produce distinct microstreams that are potentially observable in dark matter detection experiments .",
    "extended bodies generally have a complex response to external tidal heating ( gnedin & ostriker 1999 ) .",
    "we can estimate the net effect of this process by applying the basic scaling from the semi - analytic mass - loss model of taylor & babul ( 2001 ) , which has been shown to match tidal heating and mass loss rates in high - resolution numerical simulations . according to this model , whenever a system on a general orbit spends time @xmath5 in a strong tidal field , that is a field in which the instantaneous tidal limit for the object @xmath6 ( calculated as in the circular - orbit case  cf .",
    "binney & tremaine 1987 ) is smaller than its size @xmath7 , it loses a fraction @xmath8 of the mass outside @xmath6 , where @xmath9 is the instantaneous orbital period . to estimate",
    "when material at radius @xmath7 in a microhalo will experience strong shocks , we need to calculate the minimum impact parameter such that @xmath10 .",
    "this is equivalent to the condition that the tidal force generated during an encounter with a star of mass @xmath11 at an impact parameter @xmath12 , @xmath13 , exceeds the restoration force for a small displacement @xmath14 , @xmath15 , where @xmath16 is the mean density of the microhalo interior to @xmath7 . for a typical microhalo in the simulations by diemand et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , the density at the half - mass radius is @xmath17 , while the highest resolved density ( at  0.1 @xmath18 ) is @xmath19 times higher .",
    "we do not expect a divergent ( phase space ) density in these smallest halos .",
    "even if a cusp existed below the simulation resolution , it would contain less than 3% of the microhalo s mass , extrapolating from the profile given by diemand et al .",
    "thus for a rapid encounter with a solar - mass star , impact parameters of @xmath20 or less will produce a strong shock over a range of radii containing 97% or more of the mass in the microhalo .",
    "@xmath21 is the average density within 10% of the virial radius @xmath22 and can be thought of as a constant until the microhalo is virtually destroyed as shown in angus & zhao ( 2006 , hereafter az , figures 7c and 12b ) .",
    "a microhalo moving at a relative speed of @xmath23 through a star field with a number density @xmath24 will encounter stars with an impact parameter @xmath25 at a rate of @xmath26 per million years .",
    "each encounter shocks the microhalo for a time @xmath27 years , and liberates a fraction of the microhalo s total mass .",
    "this fraction , from the scaling in taylor and babul ( 2001 ) , is roughly @xmath28 . here , @xmath29 myr is the period of a circular orbit of speed @xmath30 m/s around the solar - mass perturber at a distance of @xmath31 .",
    "thus , the mass of a microhalo decreases exponentially , with the e - folding time given by @xmath32 , where we have expressed @xmath33 in terms of the parameters of the satellite . averaged over a hubble time , we find that a microhalo s mass decays exponentially , @xmath34 , where the e - folding time and the present mass are given by [ tau ] = 10 gyr ( 0.004 ^-3 ) ( _ mic 10 ^ -3 ) ^-1/2 , where @xmath35 is the mass density of galactic ( disk , bulge and halo ) stars averaged along the orbit of a microhalo over the past 10 gyrs ( at earlier times",
    ", few stars might have formed ) . in general , @xmath35 is a function of the pericenter , apocenter and vertical height of the microhalo orbit .",
    "e.g. , a microhalo on a thick disk orbit of height 1000 pc near the solar neighborhood would have made @xmath4 disk crossings and gone through star fields of an accumulated column density @xmath36 by today .",
    "it goes through the galactic disk with a mean surface density of 46@xmath37pc@xmath38 or an average volume density @xmath39pc@xmath40 , thus this microhalo s mass is predicted to have decayed by about 6 e - foldings .    another way to think of",
    "the semi - analytical disruption rate is to note that the logarithm of the bound fraction @xmath41 , where @xmath42 is the stellar mass density encountered . to get an indication of how robust the semi - analytical massloss rate is , we have also run n - body simulations of a simplistic single encounter between a star and a microhalo for comparison .",
    "we use the tree - code of vine and sigurdsson 1998 .",
    "we use a total particle number of @xmath43 and softening of @xmath44pc consistent with interparticle separations of 3.5@xmath45pc .",
    "the tree code tolerance parameter , @xmath46 is the cell size divided by particle separation and is set to 0.6 in these simulations .",
    "initially the microhalo particles were distributed in a spherical nfw density profile with a @xmath47pc and a total mass of @xmath48 .",
    "two sets of velocity space initial conditions were used ; tangentially anisotropic ( ta ) microhalos with randomly inclined circular orbits @xmath49 and radially anisotropic ( ra ) microhalos with @xmath50 , where @xmath51 and @xmath52 are the microhalo s internal density and circular velocity respectively ( cf .",
    "angus and zhao 2006 ) .",
    "two - body relaxation time , measured by the mean squared normalised energy drift after @xmath53 time steps using @xmath43 particles for an isolated microhalo , is about 3gyr .",
    "so a microhalo resolved with @xmath43 particles should be free from numerical relaxation on time scales of 15myr , i.e. , the dynamical time scale of the microhalo . to measure the effect of encounters with stars ,",
    "we shoot a single star of mass @xmath54 with a relative velocity @xmath55 towards a microhalo with a closest approach @xmath56 for penetrative encounters and @xmath57 for non - penetrative encounters .",
    "such an impact is typical for a microhalo passing through a random star field with an equivalent star column density @xmath58 .",
    "the duration of a star passage , say , along the x - axis from @xmath59 to @xmath60 is about @xmath61 dynamical time of the microhalo , hence microhalo particles are virtually stationary ( moving less than 0.01 percent of its orbital radius ) during a star passage , so the perturbations are indeed in the impulse regime .",
    "it appears that our semi - analytical model captures the essential feature in numerical simulations of the impulse on @xmath48 microhalos if assuming @xmath62 ( cf .",
    "however , there are microhalos of a few times earth mass , and these can be , e.g. , 5 times more massive and denser than the @xmath48 microhalos experimented here ( cf . fig.2 of diemand et al .",
    "allowing for more robust microhalos and to be conservative in estimating the disruption rate of microhalos , we shall adopt the rate from the semi - analytical model assuming @xmath63 hereafter .",
    "note that the scaling of our semi - analytical model eq .",
    "[ tau ] also agrees with the literature on impulse - induced massloss in the context of diffuse star clusters , e.g. , moore ( 1996 ) , and eqs .",
    "6 - 8 of wielen ( 1985 ) or eq .  8 of wasserman & salpeter ( 1994 ) .    [ oldfig ]",
    "to study the dependence of mass loss on orbital parameters , we have integrated orbits of microhalos in a flattened , axisymmetric galaxy potential with a nearly flat rotation curve : @xmath64 we launch 500 orbits from the solar neighborhood , @xmath65 , with a gaussian velocity distribution ( @xmath66 dispersion in each direction ) .",
    "we read off the stellar density along the orbit using the besancon model of the galaxy ( robin et al .",
    "2003 ) , and then take a time average of the star density .",
    "the besancon model is a widely accepted detailed prescription of the number density of stars and stellar remnants of different ages and masses in the galactic spheroids ( bulge and halo ) and disks ( thin and thick ) .",
    "a few examples of the microhalo orbits are given together with the star count model in fig .",
    "[ angus1 ] .",
    "these simulations suggest that the population of microhalos with apocenters less than 12 kpc has @xmath67 , and are hence past their half - life ( purple orbit in fig .",
    "[ angus1 ] ) .",
    "the more planar orbits , with @xmath68 and apocenter @xmath69 ( blue orbit in fig .",
    "[ angus1 ] ) , have decayed by approximately 1 e - fold with @xmath70 .",
    "complete destruction should happen to disky orbits penetrating into the bulge ; e.g. , the red orbit in fig .  [ angus1 ] goes through a typical column density of @xmath71 with each disk crossing at a small angle , and has on average @xmath72 @xmath73 , corresponding to about 19 e - folds . in general",
    ", we observe a strong correlation between the orbital shape and the disruption rate .",
    "orbits which go through dense regions of the galaxy are likely disrupted due to tides ( cf .",
    "[ oldfig ] ) .",
    "also plotted in the inset of fig .",
    "[ angus1 ] is the zone of destruction in the velocity space using 500 microhalos launched from the solar neighborhood .",
    "there is a clear trend for halos with more planar ( smaller @xmath74 ) orbits , especially those co - rotating with the disk , and orbits with lower energy ( hence smaller apocenters ) to enter regions of higher density .",
    "the sample averaged density is @xmath75 or @xmath76 for median or mean density , so microhalos on earth - crossing orbits are likely to have been severely stripped .",
    "about 10% of the microhalos are in low - density regions ( below @xmath77 ) , and might survive more - or - less intact . the chance of survival , however , is likely even more severely reduced in the triaxial , barred and evolving potential of the milky way , where most orbits are stochastic box orbits which pass through the dense center of the milky way at some point over a hubble time .",
    "additionally , it has been shown in az that disk shocking and tidal stripping may combine with stellar encounters to destroy microhalos even more efficiently than shown here .    of course , these orbits are mearly a sample of all orbits passing the sun .",
    "in fact , the fraction of halos disrupted would be much lower for high - energy orbits beyond the solar neighbourhood as the tides at larger pericentre are weaker along with the rapidly decreasing fraction of stars . what was also keenly noted by berezinsky et al .",
    "( 2005 ) was that apocentric disk crossings beyond the extent of the thin disk are likely to boost the lifetime of microhalos .",
    "the destruction rate is certainly much higher for low - energy orbits contained inside the bulge or those that have pericentres within the solar radius .",
    "these michohalos would be exposed to stronger tides and higher stellar densities added to the fact they will cross the disk twice every orbit . however , these orbits are irrelavent for direct experiments on earth , and less important for indirect experiments because microhalos are barely identifiable from the background beyond about 0.1pc - 1pc distance from us .    additionally , the calculations done by diemand et al .",
    "( 2005 ) did not find self - consistent orbits and their comments on the current situation in the milky way are major extrapolations from dark - matter only simulations that stop at redshift 26 , and only ever simulate a much smaller total volume . since halo orbits in the mw would be strongly affected by the formation of the galaxy .",
    "so what we have here is desruption as a function of orbital parameters .",
    "we note that the long term fate of the cusp at the very center of each microhalo is unclear .",
    "simulations have shown that systems with a universal density profile may lose all but 0.11% of their mass and still retain a bound central region hayashi et al .",
    "such objects may indeed survive to the present - day in the solar neighborhood , but they will have little effect on dark matter detection experiments . the tidal debris stripped out of microhalos may actually be of greater interest , as discussed below .",
    "nevertheless , az ( figures 7c and 12b ) showed that the inner density of a microhalo ( @xmath21 ) is largely unaffected until it is stripped down to the inner shell .",
    "the existence of dark substructure in our galaxy s halo has important implications for the prospects of both direct and indirect dark matter detection ( green et al . 2005 ; berezinsky et al . 2003 ; pieri et al . 2005 ;",
    "koushiappas et al . 2004 ) .",
    "the presence of substructure affects direct detection rates in a straight forward way : if the solar system happens to be located inside of an overdense region of dark matter , then the rate observed will be enhanced proportionally to the density of the clump .",
    "if , as is much more likely , our solar system is not inside a clump , then the rate will be modestly reduced by the fact that some fraction of the overall density is contained in substructures and thus does not contribute to the density of the smooth component .",
    "zhao and silk 2005 estimated that the nearest minihalo of @xmath78 is 1 kpc away with a size of 50pc .",
    "diemand et al .",
    "2005 estimated that unstripped earth - mass halos have a filling factor of @xmath79 . hence in either case",
    "it is _ unlikely _ for the sun to be inside a substructure .",
    "tidal debris from encounters with stars changes the picture substantially . while the probability to find our solar system inside of a @xmath80-sized bound remnant of a microhalo is on the order of @xmath81 ,",
    "the probability is of order unity for the solar system to be moving presently inside an ( unbound ) substructure .",
    "disrupted streams are inhomogeneous regions with at least 10 times the volume filling factor of the original unstripped clump .",
    "this is because at each disk crossing a burst of tidal debris is released due to encounters with disk stars , and the tails would lead / trail at least @xmath82pc ( assuming @xmath83 m/s speed of escape ) along the system s trajectory in 100 myrs , the time between disk crossings .",
    "the time for the solar system to cross a stream at a general angle will be longer than 50 years , the time to cross a bound microhalo ( diemand et al . 2005 ) .",
    "moving inside the inhomogeneous debris of the microhalos could cause transient enhancements of the event rate in direct detection experiments .",
    "furthermore clumps on polar orbits survive longer than planar orbits ( cf .",
    "[ angus1 ] ) , this makes the velocity distribution of the micro - streams non - gaussian , and could imprint an interesting annual modulation on the direct detection signal ( morgan et al .",
    "2005 ; freese et al . 2005 ) .",
    "fig.12 of angus & zhao ( 2006 ) shows the morphology of a microstream : even after the microhalo is fully disrupted , the microstream is still a distinct entity with a negligable tangential size compared to its length . as a result",
    ", these filamentary streams may be the fate of a large proportion of the milky way s microhalos and the enhanced background from these structures may impose interesting features on direct detection experiments as well as having interesting annihilation flux properties .",
    "the implications of dark microhalos and microstreams are rather different for the case of indirect detection .",
    "indirect measurements sample the distribution of dark matter , through its annihilation rate , over large regions of the halo .",
    "furthermore , dark matter annihilation rates , and thus indirect detection signals , are proportional not to the density of dark matter but to the dark matter density squared .",
    "substructure within the galactic halo thus may be capable of boosting the dark matter annihilation rate and enhancing the prospects of detecting dark matter indirectly ( taylor & silk 2003 ) .",
    "techniques employed for the indirect detection of dark matter include gamma - ray , anti - matter and neutrino detectors ( silk & srednicki 1984 ) .",
    "gamma - rays annihilating in nearby and dense substructures , if present , could provide point sources potentially observable by gamma - ray telescopes ( pieri et al . 2005 ; koushiappas et al . 2004 ) .",
    "anti - matter produced in dark matter annihilations are deflected by galactic magnetic fields and thus only the diffuse spectrum can be studied .",
    "neutrinos are not as useful for identifying annihilations in the galactic halo , but instead are used to search for dark matter particles annihilating in the core of the sun .",
    "the neutrino flux produced through dark matter matter annihilations in the sun is tied to the local density averaged over very long periods of time and therefore the presence of substructure is of little importance .",
    "nearby microhalos , being tidally disrupted , are not particularly bright point sources of gamma - rays . while diemand et al .",
    "2005 predict that the nearest intact microhalo will be much brighter than known dwarf spheroidals in gamma - rays , we find that the situation reverses for a microhalo left with only a one percent bound remnant .    anti - matter fluxes produced through dark matter annihilations do not depend on the nature or location of individual dark substructures , but rather on the distribution of dark matter averaged over large volumes .",
    "the value of the quantity @xmath84 , averaged over the contributing volume ( a few kiloparces for positrons or tens of kiloparsecs for anti - protons ) , determines the overall boost factor for the anti - matter fluxes generated through dark matter annihilations .    with a distribution of substructure of the form @xmath85",
    ", each decade of mass contributes almost equally to the boost factor , so it is important to determine over what range of masses substructures can survive .",
    "previous works ( helmi et al . 2002 ; stoehr et al . 2003 ) emphasized the role of largers substructures , with the mass of draco dwarf spheroidal .",
    "diemand et al .",
    "2005 argue that the nearest earth - mass halo is factor of a few brighter than draco .",
    "we argue , however , that the nearest earth - mass halo is likely to be tidally dispersed , and hence fainter than draco .",
    "we have proposed ( zhao & silk 2005 ) that the nurseries of the first stars in the universe are dense minihalos of @xmath78 formed at @xmath86 .",
    "unlike the microhalos such minihalos can survive the galactic tides until the present day .",
    "the nearest minihalo is only 1 - 2 kpc from the sun , and is an order of magnitude brighter than the combined annihilation from the draco galaxy .    in light of the excess reported by the heat collaboration ( barwick et al .",
    "1997 ; coutu et al .",
    "1999 ; baltz & edsjo 1999 ) , substructure is of particular importance for dark matter searches involving positrons . to produce such a signal with thermally generated neutralinos or other type of wimps , however , boost factors of @xmath8750 or higher are required ( baltz et al . 2005 ; hooper & kribs 2004 ; hooper & servant 2005 ) . although it has been shown that more massive substructures do not naturally provide such a large boost factor ( hooper et al .",
    "2004 ) , effects due to baryons , or the presence of intermediate mass black holes could perhaps make them brighter ( prada et al . 2004 ) , although probably not enough to account for the heat excess .",
    "after the effects of tidal disruption are considered , the same is found to be true for earth - mass microhalos .",
    "we agree with previous studies ( berezinsky et al . 2003 ) which determine that positron boost factors larger than @xmath872 - 5 are unlikely .",
    "given this conclusion , another explanation for the excess observed by heat appears to be required .",
    "our understanding of these issues will be dramatically improved with data from the up - coming cosmic anti - matter experiments pamela and ams-02 ( profumo & ullio 2004 ) .",
    "using a semi - analytic estimate of the tidal mass - loss rate , together with numerical integration of a fair sample of microhalo orbits , we find that most microhalos present in the solar neighborhood will have been heavily stripped by stellar encounters , producing microstreams of tidal debris . more generally , in environments with very low stellar densities such as the outer parts of the galactic disk or in a sextans - like dwarf galaxy , microhalos are only mildly heated .",
    "but in high - density environments such as the galactic bulge or an m32-like elliptical ( @xmath88 to @xmath89 in inner 1kpc of m32 ( mateo 1998 ) ) microhalos are likely fully destroyed . in disk galaxies such as the milky way",
    ", the fraction of microhalos which are disrupted depends strongly on the orbital inclination and pericentre .",
    "microhalos on orbits coplanar with the disk are very quickly disrupted .",
    "microhalos in the outer part of galaxy halos will encounter far fewer stars , however , and thus their annihilation rates will be less dramatically reduced .",
    "a possible consequence of this might be to detect little gamma - ray emission from the central part of external galaxies , where stars have disrupted most of the dark substructure , and more flux from the outer regions .",
    "a ring of gamma - rays surrounding a galaxy , if detected , would provide a strong confirmation of the existence of dark substructure .",
    "the tidal effects discussed in this paper and in several preprints appeared during the marathon referee process of this paper ( berezinsky , dokuchaev , eroshenko 2005 , astro - ph/0511494 , green & goodwin 2006 , astro - ph/0604142 , goerdt , gnedin , moore , diemand , stadel 2006 , astro - ph/0608495 , angus & zhao 2006 , astro - ph/0608580 ) have important consequences for the direct and indirect detection of dark matter .",
    "in particular , the probability of the earth intersecting a tidal stream at any given time is considerably larger than the probability of it being inside a microhalo s bound remnant , and thus tidal streams may potentially increase the reach of direct detection experiments .",
    "indirect detection rates are not enhanced , however , as once stellar encounters are considered , earth mass halos are not a significant contributor to the overall dark matter annihilation rate .",
    "hsz acknowledges support from pparc advanced fellowship and outstanding oversea young scholarship from chinese academy of science .",
    "gwa acknowledges an overseas fieldwork grant from pparc and hospitality from beijing university .",
    "jet acknowledges financial support from the nsf ( grant ast-0307859 ) and the doe ( contract de - fg02 - 04er41316 ) .",
    "angus g.w . &",
    "zhao h. 2006 , astro - ph/0608580 , mnras , submitted ( az ) baltz e.a .",
    ", & edsjo j. , 1999 , phys .",
    "d , 59 , 023511 baltz e.a .",
    ", edsjo j. , freese k. , & gondolo p. , 2005",
    ", preprint(astro - ph/0211239 ) ; barwick s.w .",
    "_ et al . _",
    "[ heat collaboration ] , 1997 , apj , 482 , l191    berezinsky v. , dokuchaev v. , & eroshenko y. , 2003 , phys .",
    "d , 68 , 103003 berezinsky v. , dokuchaev v. , & eroshenko y. , 2006 , phys . rev .",
    "d , accepted , ( astro - ph/0511494 ) binney j.j .",
    ", & tremaine s. , 1987 galactic dynamics , priceton university press coutu s. , _ et al . _ , 1999 ,",
    "app , 11 , 429 diemand j. , moore b. , & stadel j. , 2005 , nature , 433 , 389 freese k. , gondolo p. , & newberg h.j . , 2005 , phys . rev .",
    "d , 71 , 043516 gnedin o.y .",
    ", & ostriker j.p . , 1999 , apj , 513 , 626 goerdt t. & gnedin o. , moore b. , diemand j. , stadel j. 2006 , mnras , submitted , ( astro - ph/0608495 ) green a. & goodwin s. 2006 , mnras , submitted , ( astro - ph/0604142 )    green a.m. , hofmann s. , & schwarz d.j . , 2005 ,",
    "jcap , 8 , 3 hayashi e. , navarro j.f . , taylor j.e . , stadel j. & quinn t.m . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 584 , 541 helmi a. , et al , 2002 , phys .",
    "d , 66 , 3502 hooper d. , taylor j.e .",
    ", & silk j. , 2004 , phys .",
    "d , 69 , 103509 hooper d. , & kribs g.d . , 2004 , phys .",
    "d , 70 , 115004 hooper d. , & silk j. , 2005 , phys .",
    "d , 71 , 083503 hooper d. , & servant g. , 2005 , preprint(hep - ph/0502247 ) koushiappas s.m .",
    ", zentner a.r . , & walker t.p . , 2004 ,",
    "phys . rev .",
    "d , 69 , 043501 mateo m. , 1998 , ann .",
    "rev . of astron . and astrophys . , 36 , 435 moore b. , 1996 , apj , 461 , l13 morgan b. , green a.m. , & spooner n.j.c . , 2005 , phys .",
    "d , 71 , 103507 ; pieri l. , branchini e. , & hofmann s. , 2005 , phys .",
    ", 95 , 211301 ; prada f. et al . , 2004 ,",
    "lett . , 93 , 1301    profumo s. , & ullio p. , 2004",
    ", jcap , 0407 , 006 ; robin a.c .",
    ", reyl c. , derrier s. , & picaud s. , 2003 , a & a , 409 , 523 silk j. , & srednicki m. , 1984 , phys . rev .",
    "lett . , 53 , 624 stoehr f. , et al .",
    "2003 , mnras , 345 , 1313 .",
    "taylor j.e . , & babul a. , 2001 , apj , 559 , 716 taylor j.e . , & silk j. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 505 wasserman i. , & salpeter e. , 1994 , apj , 433 , 670 wielen r. , 1985 dynamics of star clusters , ed .",
    "by j. goodman and piet hut , iau , p449"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we point out that the usual self - similarity in cold dark matter models is broken by encounters with individual normal galactic stars on sub - pc scale . </S>",
    "<S> tidal heating and stripping must have redefined the density and velocity structures of the population of the earth - mass dark matter halos , which are likely to have been the first bound structures to form in the universe . </S>",
    "<S> the disruption rate depends strongly on _ galaxy types _ and the orbital distribution of the microhalos ; in the milky way , stochastic radial orbits are destroyed first by stars in the triaxial bulge , microhalos on non - planar retrograde orbits with large pericenters and/or apocenters survive the longest . the final microhalo distribution in the _ solar neighborhood _ </S>",
    "<S> is better described as a superposition of filamentry microstreams rather than as a set of discrete spherical clumps in an otherwise homogeneous medium . </S>",
    "<S> this has important consequences to our detections of microhalos by direct recoil signal and indirect annihilation signal . </S>"
  ]
}