{
  "article_text": [
    "quasars have been recognized as optically variable since their discovery , varying on timescales from hours to decades .",
    "the optical variability is , at best , characterized as poorly understood , but is nevertheless recognized as a means of probing physical scales that can not be resolved spatially by any telescope or instrument ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "variability is therefore an important diagnostic of the physical processes responsible for the activity of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) .",
    "quasar light curves do not show evidence for periodicities , eclipses , or any other easily understood signature .",
    "however , optical - uv quasar variability has been studied for quite some time , and observational trends between variability and other quasar properties such as luminosity and redshift are comfortably established , and selection effects reasonably well understood ( giallongo , trevese & vagnetti 1996 ; cristiani et al .",
    "1996 cid fernandes , aretxaga & terlevich 1996 ; ulrich , maraschi & urry 1997 ) .",
    "for instance , variability is found to be inversely correlated with the optical luminosity of the quasar , and it has been demonstrated that , in their brighter phases of variability , quasars become bluer ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "such a bluening , or hardening , of quasar spectra during their brighter phases is likely due to the fact that two different spectral components with different variability properties make up the continuum ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "quasars are also found to be increasingly variable at longer timescales , at least up to timescales of years @xcite .",
    "finally , a correlation between variability and redshift is also observed , with quasars being more variable at higher redshifts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this correlation is apparently understood as a selection effect arising because of the chromatic nature of the variability .",
    "as quasars are more variable in the blue , and because shorter rest - frame wavelengths are probed at higher redshifts , the net effect is a correlation between redshift and variability @xcite .",
    "radio - selected quasars do not show the anti - correlation between variability and optical luminosity , but are seen to be bluer in the brighter phases of their variability , just as optically selected quasars .",
    "helfand et al .",
    "find that radio - selected quasars also do not show a correlation between variability and radio luminosity , but that the most radio - loud quasars may be marginally more variable than the radio - quiet ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "some radio - loud quasars , the blazars , are extremely variable on short timescales and likely have relativistically beamed jets pointed close to the line of sight .",
    "this kind of variability is understood at some level , and is less mysterious than the more general fluctuations seen in unbeamed quasar continua .",
    "@xcite , analyzing by far the largest sample of quasars ( @xmath2 25,000 from the sloan digital sky survey or sdss ) claim that there is evidence for redshift evolution in quasar variability with quasars becoming more variable at higher redshifts .",
    "they suggest that this may reflect changes in the quasar population or in the mechanism causing the variability .",
    "note that this effect is evolutionary and different from the variability ",
    "redshift correlation observed in other samples and explained as a selection effect @xcite .",
    "a number of models have been proposed to explain optical - uv quasar variability and the observed trends with quasar properties . at the most fundamental level , and clearly most important on the longest timescales , is the accretion rate .",
    "it is less clear if accretion rate variations , and perhaps corresponding disk temperature changes , are at the heart of variations on the timescales of years , although such changes can also account for the color changes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "disk instabilities have also been invoked @xcite .",
    "others have proposed that stellar processes contribute , such as stellar collisions @xcite or supernovae ( terlevich et al .",
    "1992 ; aretxaga & terlevich 1994 ; aretxaga , cid fernandes & terlevich 1997 ; cid fernandes , aretxaga & vieira da silva 2000 ) .",
    "microlensing is an important source of variability in some lensed quasars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and may more generally be important .",
    "processes intrinsic to the central engine itself must dominate , at least above some luminosity level , since photoionized emission lines are seen to respond to continuum changes after some delay .    it has been difficult to distinguish between the different models from existing observational data .",
    "the majority of the proposed models have all been shown to be qualitatively in agreement with observations .",
    "one way of attempting to narrow down the number of possible models , and also to help constraining existing models , is to find relationships between variability and other agn parameters , such as black hole mass .",
    "the black hole mass is a fundamental parameter of the agn , and the discovery of such a relationship  or lack thereof  may provide additional clues to the physical mechanisms behind the variability .",
    "quasar variability has already led to the measurement of black hole masses .",
    "reverberation mapping uses spectrophotometric monitoring to determine the time lag between continuum variation and the response from broad emission lines like h@xmath3 . due to the finite speed of light , this time lag corresponds to a size scale of the line - emitting region . in combination with the velocity dispersion of the gas in the variable line - emitting region ,",
    "the size scale can be used to infer a virial mass for the central black hole ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the time lags , and sizes , correlate with quasar luminosity ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and the instantaneous velocity dispersion may therefore be used as a stand - in for the variable component of the line width , thus permitting single - epoch observations of quasars to be used for estimating black hole masses @xcite .",
    "the capability of making single - epoch estimates of black hole masses , even with uncertainties of factors of several , is powerful since agn black hole masses span orders of magnitudes , from millions to billions of solar masses , and tens of thousands of spectra are available from recent surveys .",
    "less readily available are good quality light curves of very many quasars , although surveys taking advantage of new technologies are making up for this .",
    "we have utilized these new surveys to search for relationships between quasar variability and fundamental agn parameters , like black hole mass .    in the next section",
    "we describe how we defined a sample of quasars by matching sources from the quest1 variability survey @xcite and the sdss data release 2 ( dr2 ) @xcite .",
    "we explain how data from the two surveys were used to obtain measurements of variability and black hole mass .",
    "the analysis is carried out as described in section  [ section : analysis ] using correlation statistics and structure functions .",
    "a number of selection effects are investigated as possible causes for the observed correlation between black hole mass and variability amplitude , and we discuss the results in section  [ section : discussion ] .",
    "the conclusions are drawn in section  [ section : conclusions ] .    throughout",
    "we have assumed a cosmology with @xmath4 kms@xmath5mpc@xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7 .",
    "table  [ table : t1 ] lists the 104 quasars in our sample , along with black hole masses , bolometric luminosities , eddington ratios , and assorted variability parameters .",
    "the following sections provide details .",
    "the sample was formed by matching objects categorized as having broad emission lines at redshifts @xmath8 in the sdss dr2 @xcite with sources in the 200k light curve catalogue of the quest1 variability survey @xcite .",
    "the redshift constraint was chosen for two reasons .",
    "firstly , to ensure that the h@xmath3 would lie within the sdss spectral coverage hence permitting consistent black hole mass estimates using well established techniques , and , secondly , to limit the extent of time dilation effects which might introduce biases .",
    "we find 108 matches meeting our selection criteria , with 86 sources recovered in the sdss qso catalogue ( * ? ? ?",
    "* based on dr3 ) .",
    "the 22 sources that were not recovered in the qso catalogue are among the less luminous and probably did not satisfy the absolute magnitude criterion of the sdss qso catalogue .",
    "we include the 22 sources , which all have typical quasar spectra , in our sample .",
    "four sources were rejected on the basis of poor spectral quality , hence our final sample consists of 104 quasars .",
    "we estimate virial black hole masses for the quasars based on single - epoch sdss spectra and the scaling relationships and formalism of @xcite . in order to to this , a measurement of the velocity dispersion of the h@xmath3 line and the continuum luminosity are required .",
    "we begin with the sdss spectra , which were dereddened using the galactic extinction values of @xcite .",
    "thereafter , the h@xmath3 region of each spectrum was fitted using the same techniques as @xcite .",
    "the spectra are fitted from 4250 to 6000  using the iraf task _ specfit _ @xcite and the region is modeled with the following components : a power - law continuum , a broadened optical feii template @xcite , a host galaxy contribution based on stellar synthesis population models @xcite , and the , , and 3 @xmath94959,5007 emission lines .",
    "the line is fit with two broader gaussians , plus a very narrow gaussian constrained to match the width of the 3 line to account for the occasionally strong narrow - line region contribution to .",
    "a velocity shift is allowed between the components to account for the asymmetry of the line profile .",
    "the two gaussian components do not necessarily have any physical significance , but are required to fit the line well enough to determine a reliable fwhm .",
    "the initial parameters are set such that the power - law continuum dominates the emission , but the feii and the host galaxy can contribute when necessary .",
    "[ figure : fig1 ] shows examples of our fitting results . for details about the fitting procedure ,",
    "see @xcite .",
    "region used to make measurements of the line width and continuum flux needed for black hole mass estimation .",
    "total , continuum , and line components are shown.,width=8 ]        in order to estimate black hole masses , we utilize the fwhm of the h@xmath3 line and the 5100  continuum flux determined by the fitting routine .",
    "the fwhm of the h@xmath3 line is computed numerically from the sum of the two gaussian components used to fit the line .",
    "the largest source of uncertainty related to determining the fwhm is associated with the placement of the continuum , and we estimate typical uncertainties of 1020% .",
    "the continuum luminosity is obtained from the power - law component flux value at rest - frame 5100  .",
    "the bolometric luminosity is estimated as @xmath10 .",
    "the eddington luminosity is calculated as @xmath11 ergs s@xmath5 @xcite , and the eddington ratio as @xmath12 .",
    "black hole masses , bolometric luminosities and eddington ratios are listed in table  [ table : t1 ] for every quasar in the sample , and plotted as a function of redshift in fig .",
    "[ figure : fig2 ] to illustrate the parameter space explored by the sample .",
    "the quest1 variability survey provides light curves for nearly 200,000 objects in @xmath13 , @xmath14 and @xmath15 filters over a 24 wide strip centered at declination @xmath161 and covering the range 10@xmath17 to 15@xmath1730@xmath18 in right ascension @xcite .",
    "all sources in the 200k light curve catalogue overlap with sources in the sdss dr2 .",
    "the limiting magnitudes of the 200k light curve catalogue are @xmath19 , @xmath20 and @xmath21 , and only point sources are included ( typical seeing is 28 ) .",
    "the quest1 light curves are given in terms of julian date , instrumental magnitude and magnitude uncertainty in four filters denoted @xmath22 , @xmath23 , @xmath24 and @xmath25 ( lower case used for instrumental magnitudes ) . in order to check for self - consistency ,",
    "the quest1 survey uses two @xmath15 filters , denoted @xmath24 and @xmath25 , hence a criterion for inclusion in the 200k catalogue is that the object has a significant detection in both @xmath15 filters .",
    "our matched sample therefore contains 104 quasars detected in each of the two @xmath15 filters . in the @xmath14-filter we found 70 matches , whereas in the @xmath13-filter , only 11 . since a sample of 11 is too small for the purposes of this paper , we have ignored the @xmath13-band light curves .",
    "we have also ignored the @xmath24 measurements , and chosen @xmath25 for our analysis since the results for the two @xmath15-filters are very similar .",
    "the quest1 variability survey extended over a period of 26 months , hence covers observed timescales ranging from a few hours up to 26 months .",
    "the time elapsed between two photometric measurements in the rest - frame of the quasars , referred to as the `` time lag '' , @xmath26 , scales with @xmath27 .",
    "the distribution of rest frame time lags for the 104 quasars in our matched sample is shown in fig .",
    "[ figure : fig3 ] .",
    "the majority of the measurements are concentrated in two regions , one at @xmath28 days and the other at @xmath29 days , with a gap around 100 days .",
    "the sample therefore probes variations on rest - frame timescales between @xmath30 hrs up to one month , and between six months up to almost two years .",
    "the measurements extend all the way down to time lags of @xmath31 hr , but only for a few objects .",
    "-filter is @xmath32 , and in @xmath14 , @xmath33.,width=8 ]        variability can be characterized in several different ways , and we have chosen quantities describing both the variability of each quasar and the variability for the sample as a whole .",
    "common for both of these is that the distribution of all possible magnitude differences ( or variability amplitudes ) on each light curve is evaluated , i.e.@xmath34 where @xmath35 .",
    "a light curve with @xmath36 photometric measurements at different time lags therefore has @xmath37 different variability amplitudes .",
    "the variability of a single quasar can be described by the standard deviation , mean , median and maximum of its distribution of variability amplitudes ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we denote these quantities @xmath38 , @xmath39 , med@xmath40 and max@xmath41 , and list them in table  [ table : t1 ] for both the @xmath14- and the @xmath15-filter .",
    "the standard deviation , @xmath38 , was evaluated by weighting each magnitude with the inverse of the uncertainty in the magnitude .",
    "also listed in table  [ table : t1 ] , in the last column , is the variability global confidence level , denoted gcl , from the quest1 variability catalogue .",
    "it is defined by @xcite as a weighted average of the variability confidence levels in every filter the source was detected , and indicates the percentage probability that a source is not variable purely by random fluctuations .",
    "the mean and median gcl of our matched sample is 79 and 88 , respectively , and the percentage of objects with gcl @xmath2 85 , which @xcite choose for spectroscopic follow - up and classify as `` highly variable '' , is 58",
    ". hence more than half of our sample contains highly variable objects , reflecting the fact that most quasars are indeed variable at some level .",
    "the variability measurements outlined in the previous section characterize how strongly variable each source is across the full light curve , but do not describe how the variability changes as a function of time lag . in order to investigate the time dependence of the variability , we utilize the first - order structure function , defined as @xmath42 ^ 2 \\right>\\ ] ] @xcite , where @xmath43 is the magnitude at time @xmath44 , @xmath26 is the rest - frame time lag , and the @xmath45 brackets denote the ensemble average . in practice ,",
    "the structure function is the sample average of all magnitude differences at a given time lag , @xmath26 .",
    "it is often used to characterize quasar variability @xcite and is less sensitive to aliasing problems and gaps in the data than e.g.  fourier analysis .",
    "we evaluate the structure function for the sample within fixed logarithmic intervals of width 0.25 in @xmath46 . the resulting structure function in both @xmath14- and @xmath15-filter",
    "is shown in fig .",
    "[ figure : fig4 ] where only bins with more than 50 measurements have been included ( the number of measurements per bin can be read off fig .",
    "[ figure : fig3 ] ) .",
    "the uncertainty in @xmath47 at each @xmath46 interval was evaluated by splitting each bin in four equal parts and calculating the difference between @xmath47 in each sub - bin and @xmath47 in the full bin .",
    "- and @xmath14-filter .",
    "the smaller inlaid figure shows the structure function in bins of 10 days at time lags between 100 and @xmath48 days .",
    ", width=8 ]    the behaviour of the structure function in fig .",
    "[ figure : fig4 ] is typical for measurements where there is variability due to measurement noise at shorter time lags and variability intrinsic to the source at longer time lags . for measurement noise ,",
    "the correlation timescale is zero , hence the plateau at short time lags , @xmath49 days , is characteristic of the photometric uncertainty in the data , here seen to be @xmath50@xmath51 mag .",
    "since the plateau at short time lags merely probes the noise , we expect the structure function to be similar in both @xmath14 and @xmath15 in this region , which is indeed observed . for time lags @xmath52 67 days",
    ", the structure function starts to increase .",
    "the increase is seen in both @xmath14 and @xmath15 , but with the sample being more variable in the @xmath14-filter .",
    "this is in line with previous observations , finding that quasars are more variable in the blue .    at time",
    "lags between one and six months there are no data , but at @xmath53 months , the structure function has increased significantly above the noise plateau .",
    "a structure function that increases from the noise plateau and levels off at longer time lags is typical of a process which has one characteristic , physically meaningful , timescale @xcite .",
    "whether there is such a plateau at longer timescales in our sample is difficult to determine because there are not enough measurements at long time lags ( only three data points at @xmath54 ) .",
    "a leveling off at @xmath55 days would indicate that there is a preferred timescale of roughly 200 days for the outbursts causing the variability , whereas a continued increase indicates that processes of many different timescales contribute to the variability .",
    "it is uncertain whether the turn - over of the structure function at @xmath56400 days reflects a real change .",
    "most likely it is caused by incompleteness or selection effects .",
    "each bin , apart from the first and the last , contains measurements from all objects in the sample .",
    "the bin at the longest time lag contains objects that are biased toward smaller redshifts , because only for those can we probe the longest time lags . the smaller plot in the upper left - hand corner of fig .",
    "[ figure : fig4 ] shows the structure function evaluated in bins of 10 days . there is a dip around @xmath57 days , causing the larger error bar in the more coarsely binned data .",
    "the dip at @xmath58 days , as well as the decrease in @xmath47 at longer time lags may therefore be due to a bias introduced by incomplete sampling of time lags at the end of the one- and two - year periods in the quest1 variability survey . as the longest time sampling is obtained for the lower - redshift sources , and if the lower - redshift sources are biased toward lower variability , this could explain the drop in the structure function .",
    "it is well known that quasar variability continues to increase at time lags of the order several years @xcite , hence the most likely explanation for the turn - over in this set of data is insufficient sampling at long time lags . a similar turn - over",
    "is also seen in the structure function analysis made by @xcite on a sample of @xmath59 quest1 quasars .",
    "regardless of the behaviour of the structure function in the longer time lag bin , the slope at the rising part is a meaningful parameter as it indicates the nature of the process causing the variability @xcite .",
    "but as there is a gap in the data at time lags from one to six months , we can only estimate a lower limit to the slope . fitting a straight line through the data points at @xmath60 days",
    "gives a slope of 0.42 in @xmath14 and 0.41 in @xmath15 .",
    "this agrees very well with the slope of 0.41@xmath610.07 derived by @xcite for their sample of roughly 1000 quest1 quasars .",
    ".the total sample of 104 quasars with variability measurements and agn parameters .",
    "the columns are ( 1 ) sloan i d number , ( 2 ) redshift , ( 3 ) apparent sloan @xmath62 magnitude , ( 4 ) absolute magnitude in sloan @xmath63-filter , ( 5)(8 ) weighted standard deviation , mean , median and maximum of the distribution of variability amplitudes in the @xmath15-filter ( units of magnitudes ) , ( 9)(12 ) same as columns ( 5)(8 ) , but for the @xmath14-filter , ( 13 ) log of black hole mass in units of solar masses , ( 14 ) log of bolometric luminosity in units of ergss@xmath5 , ( 15 ) log of eddington ratio , defined as @xmath64 , and ( 16 ) the global confidence level of variability as defined by @xcite . [ cols= \"",
    "< , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , > \" , ]     [ table : t2 ]",
    "could the correlation between variability and black hole mass be caused through more primary correlations with another variable ?",
    "for instance , variability and redshift are known to be correlated , and fig .",
    "[ figure : fig2 ] shows that black hole mass is indeed correlated with redshift in our sample ( spearman s @xmath65 with probability of correlation arising by chance 6@xmath6610@xmath67 ) . as discussed in the introduction , the redshift ",
    "variability correlation comes about as a combination of the hardening ( bluening ) of quasar spectra in their brighter phases and the fact that a fixed passband in the observers frame probes progressively shorter rest - frame wavelengths at higher redshifts . because higher - redshift quasars in flux - limited samples are sampled at bluer rest - frame wavelengths where they are more variable , a variability ",
    "redshift correlation emerges .",
    "this could imply that a bias with redshift causes the more massive black holes to be associated with stronger variability .    in order to check",
    "whether the variability  redshift correlation in the sample is causing the variability  black hole mass correlation , we evaluate spearman s partial correlation coefficient between black hole mass and variability amplitude , at constant redshift .",
    "we obtain @xmath68 with a probability of 0.0035 that the variability ",
    "black hole mass correlation is caused by underlying correlations with redshift .",
    "hence the variability ",
    "black hole mass correlation does not appear to be caused by underlying correlations with redshift .",
    "we also considered the possibility that the correlation could arise as a result of a more primary correlation with luminosity , because black hole mass is also correlated with bolometric luminosity in our sample ( @xmath69 with a probability of arising by chance of 2.6@xmath6610@xmath70 ) .",
    "a partial spearman correlation analysis shows that the correlation coefficient between max@xmath71 and @xmath72 at constant @xmath73 is 0.254 with the probability of the correlation being caused by underlying correlations with @xmath73 being 2@xmath6610@xmath74 .    additional multivariate regression analysis and principle component analysis support the conclusions of the partial correlation analysis . when predicting the max@xmath71 parameter based on both black hole mass and redshift , only black hole mass is significant , still at the two per cent level .",
    "there is thus no convincing evidence that the variability ",
    "black hole mass correlation is caused by simple selection effects .",
    "the lowest luminosity agn in our sdss - quest1 sample are seyfert galaxies and their spectra may suffer from some level of host galaxy contamination despite our efforts to include a host galaxy component in the spectral fitting . host galaxy contamination would occur preferentially for the lowest luminosity agns which are also those with the largest timescales sampled and tending to have smaller black hole masses .",
    "two offsetting effects may occur : the stronger effect , depending linearly on the host - to - agn ratio , dilutes the variability ; the weaker effect , depending on the host - to - agn ratio to the 0.7 power @xcite , overestimates the black hole mass .",
    "in general we were conservative during the fitting and used zero initial host galaxy contribution with small steps , and only a few spectra required much host galaxy contribution .",
    "furthermore , the quest1 variability catalogue does not include objects regarded as resolved , and only a few sdss spectra display any clear host galaxy features .",
    "finally , the trend between black hole mass and variability is still present within a sub - sample of higher luminosity quasars which are expected to be less affected by host galaxy contamination @xcite .",
    "host galaxy contamination has however been noted to have significant effects on measurements of agn luminosities in more luminous pg quasars ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , so it is a potential concern . we conclude that even though host galaxy contamination could artificially enhance a variability amplitude  black hole mass correlation , it is a weak effect and unlikely to be important for our sample",
    ".      studies have shown that x - ray , uv and optical quasar flux variations are approximately simultaneous , supporting a model where reprocessing is essential . in this model ,",
    "the optical and uv flux originate in an accretion disk which is irradiated by an x - ray variable disk corona .",
    "short - timescale variations in this model are explained as either flares or variations in the optical depth of the corona .",
    "longer timescale variations , on the order of months to years , may be related to the propagation of the shorter - timescale variations ( see * ? ? ? * and references therein ) . in summary ,",
    "a number of models for quasar optical variability exists but there are no clear predictions relating variability amplitude and black hole mass .",
    "there are predictions , however , of how different sources of optical variability can be associated with different characteristic timescales and many of these timescales depend on black hole mass .",
    "@xcite list several ( light crossing time , accretion timescale , orbital timescale and accretion disk thermal timescale , see also @xcite ) , and attempt to define a relationship between black hole mass and characteristic variability timescale .",
    "studying a sample of 10 well - monitored agn , they report evidence of characteristic optical variability timescales correlating with black hole mass .",
    "the timescales they are studying range from a few weeks for agn with black hole masses of @xmath75 to a few months for agn with black hole masses of @xmath76 , and are roughly consistent with accretion disk thermal timescales .    on timescales of a few weeks , the quest1 light curves are dominated by observational uncertainties , and timescales of several months are not well sampled .",
    "the quest1 time sampling is far from complete , essentially sampling timescales of weeks and 12 years , with little in between and nothing longer .",
    "the timescales that are well sampled , and which possess the most variability , are 12 years ( also discussed by * ? ? ?",
    "agn with black hole masses of @xmath76 to @xmath77 , which we have in our sample , would be expected to have accretion disk thermal characteristic timescales on the order of 12 years .",
    "if the @xcite result is correct , we may be seeing a correlation resulting from the time sampling of quest1 .",
    "if we are biased toward detecting intrinsic quasar variability only at longer timescales , i.e.  @xmath78 days , and if there is a relation between characteristic variability timescale and black hole mass , we may be preferentially detecting strong variability in the agn with higher black hole masses . the correlation we observe",
    "could therefore be a manifestation of the black hole mass dependence on agn physical timescales .",
    "there are three arguments against this : 1 ) the relation between characteristic variability timescales and black hole mass is highly speculative and not based on anything that has been well established yet .",
    "2 ) the variability ",
    "black hole mass correlation is present also in the part of the sample having @xmath79 m@xmath80 , although with lower significance than for the complete sample .",
    "hence the correlation is not formed solely by the presence of quasars at @xmath81 m@xmath80 with variability amplitudes comparable to the noise level .",
    "3 ) it is actually the lower redshift quasars ( biased toward lower black hole masses ) that have the best sampling of rest frame time lags over the time base line of the quest1 survey .",
    "the lower redshift quasars should therefore make a larger contribution to the structure function at intermediate to longer time lags as compared to the higher redshift ones .",
    "this effect would work in the opposite direction to what is expected due to the incomplete temporal sampling discussed above .",
    "we therefore favour an explanation where the correlation we observe is due to a real relation between variability amplitude and black hole mass .",
    "however , as there are no models linking variability amplitude and black hole mass , it is difficult to explore this in more details at this stage . in order to confirm the validity of a variability  black hole mass correlation , larger samples of quasars with better and more complete temporal sampling",
    "are needed .",
    "our ensemble structure functions do not show evidence for a characteristic timescale , although data at longer timescales are needed to confirm a turn - over or flattening in the structure function . as discussed in section  [ section : sf ] , the dips in the structure function at @xmath58 and @xmath82 days is caused by incomplete sampling of time lags at the end of the 1 and 2 year periods in the quest1 variability survey .",
    "the structure function at the end of each observing period will be biased toward lower - redshift quasars for which we can probe the longest rest frame time lags . as we are probably biased toward the lower - mass black holes at lower redshifts , the variability ",
    "black hole mass correlation could explain the drop in the structure function at longer time lags .",
    "we also note that the variability  black hole mass correlation may help explain the result that radio - loud quasars are marginally more variable than radio - quiets .",
    "this follows if the most radio - loud objects selected from the top of the radio luminosity function are the ones with the more massive black holes ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we note that good light curves and black hole masses of pg quasars are available in the literature .",
    "we were able to assemble a sample of 28 pg quasars with variability parameters from @xcite and black hole masses from @xcite , and looked for corroboration of our sdss - quest1 results .",
    "we found no significant correlations between variability and black hole mass for the pg quasars , possibly because of the smaller sample size .",
    "we did not add these data points to our sdss - quest1 sample due to differences in parameter space and time sampling .",
    "in this study we have matched a sample of broad - lined agn at redshifts @xmath8 from the sdss @xcite with sources in the 200k light curve catalogue of the quest1 variability survey @xcite , yielding a total sample of 104 quasars .",
    "the sloan spectra are used to estimate black hole masses from h@xmath3 linewidths and continuum luminosities at rest frame 5100  @xcite .",
    "the light curves are used to evaluate the variability of each quasar in the sample , as well as the time - dependence on variability for the whole ensemble of quasars .",
    "we conclude that there is evidence for a correlation between the black hole mass of a quasar and its variability properties .",
    "in particular , the variability amplitude tends to be larger with increasing black hole mass , a trend that is most pronounced for the larger timescales probed by the quest1 variability survey . the variability ",
    "black hole mass correlation does not appear to be caused by obvious selection effects , host galaxy contamination or correlations between variability and luminosity / redshift .",
    "we have also discussed whether the correlation may be a manifestation of a relation between black hole mass and accretion disk thermal time scale .",
    "this can come about if the temporal sampling in the quest1 survey gives rise to a bias toward variability at longer time scales .",
    "there are however no convincing and established arguments supporting this explanation , hence we favour a scenario in which the more massive black holes have larger variability amplitudes .    the general robustness of the variability  black hole mass correlation should be confirmed with samples of similar , or larger , size consisting of objects possessing longer and better temporal sampling of the light curves .",
    "improvements in technology and a growing recognition of the untapped power of time domain analysis promise to provide such data sets in the near future .",
    "msb thanks the eso scientific visitor programme for support and hospitality , and the national science foundation for support through grant ast-0507781 .",
    "the authours also thank the referee for comments which helped improve the presentation of this work .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "we would like to thank those involved in making the sloan digital sky survey and the quest1 variability survey realities with public databases .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in order to investigate the dependence of quasar variability on fundamental physical parameters like black hole mass , we have matched quasars from the quest1 variability survey with broad - lined objects from the sloan digital sky survey . </S>",
    "<S> the matched sample contains @xmath0 quasars , and the sloan spectra are used to estimate black hole masses and bolometric luminosities . </S>",
    "<S> variability amplitudes are measured from the quest1 light curves . </S>",
    "<S> we find that black hole mass correlates with several measures of the variability amplitude at the 99% significance level or better . </S>",
    "<S> the correlation does not appear to be caused by obvious selection effects inherent to flux - limited quasar samples , host galaxy contamination or other well - known correlations between quasar variability and luminosity / redshift . </S>",
    "<S> we evaluate variability as a function of rest - frame time lag using structure functions , and find further support for the variability  black hole mass correlation . </S>",
    "<S> the correlation is strongest for time lags of the order a few months up to the quest1 maximum temporal resolution of @xmath1 years , and may provide important clues for understanding the long - standing problem of the origin of quasar optical variability . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss whether our result is a manifestation of a relation between characteristic variability timescale and black hole mass , where the variability timescale is typical for accretion disk thermal timescales , but find little support for this . </S>",
    "<S> our favoured explanation is that more massive black holes have larger variability amplitudes , and we highlight the need for larger samples with more complete temporal sampling to test the robustness of this result .    [ firstpage ]    </S>",
    "<S> quasars : general </S>"
  ]
}