{
  "article_text": [
    "two fundamental characteristics of a cataclysmic variable ( cv ) are the orbital period , @xmath0 , typically between 80 m and 9 h , and the behaviour of the optical lightcurve , showing either the recurrent 25 mag outbursts of a dwarf - nova ( dn ) , or the steady lightcurve of a nova - like variable ( nl ) .",
    "dn are thought to be low accretion rate ( ) systems with accretion discs cool enough to undergo hydrogen ionization instabilities , whereas nls are always too hot for this to occur ( see warner 1995 for a comprehensive review of the whole field ) .",
    "the nls predominantly have @xmath0@xmath13 h , implying a high  and thus high angular momentum loss from the binary in this range .",
    "systems with @xmath0@xmath22 h are predominantly dn , implying a lower angular momentum loss from gravitational radiation alone .",
    "fewer systems occur in the ` period gap ' between 2 and 3 h , a possible consequence of the mechanism for additional braking switching off at 3 h.    however , verbunt ( 1997 ) has concluded that the period gap is not significant for nls , and thus queried whether the additional braking mechanism ( usually suggested to be braking by the magnetic field of the secondary ) is required . in this paper",
    "we re - examine the issue using ritter &  kolb s ( 1998 ) more recent list of cvs with known orbital period .",
    "further , we address the nature of vy  scl stars , which are currently poorly understood ( e.g.  livio &  pringle 1994 ; wu , wickramasinghe &  warner 1995 ; verbunt 1997 ) .",
    "the philosophy of this paper is that we can use the outburst properties recorded by ritter &  kolb ( 1998 ) as an indicator of ( c.f .",
    "shafter 1992 ) .",
    "thus we created a sample of high  systems into which we placed the nls .",
    "then , in a divergence from the method of verbunt ( 1997 ) , we removed all the nls listed by ritter &  kolb ( 1998 ) as certain am  her stars , dq  her stars , or intermediate polars .",
    "this is because am  hers do nt possess discs and thus the presence or absence of outbursts is no longer an indicator of  ( the use of the term ` nova - like ' for am her stars is more historical than physical ) .",
    "similarly , while intermediate polars mostly have discs , the magnetic field also affects the outburst behaviour ( e.g.  warner 1996 ; hellier , mukai &  beardmore 1997 ) .",
    "we then created versions of the ` high ' sample both including and excluding old novae , in case the nova eruption leaves the cv with an  temporarily atypical of its @xmath0 .",
    "lastly , since we wanted to investigate the status of vy  scl stars we removed them from the nl sample and placed them into a separate ` vy ' sample . we refer to the high  sample as ` nnl ' for ` normal nls ' ( i.e. no magnetics or vy  scl stars ) or as ` nnl+n ' when it includes the old novae ( recurrent novae were excluded from both samples ) .",
    "a further reason for omitting old novae and magnetic systems is the potential bias due to selection effects : nova explosions draw attention to the underlying cv , and the majority of magnetic systems are first seen in x - rays , whereas non - magnetic cvs are nearly all discovered optically ( the variability of dn also make them more obvious than nls , but as long as this affects all orbital periods equally it wo nt affect our analysis ) .",
    "the z  cam stars are hybrids showing periods of dn outbursts and periods of ` standstill ' in which they act as nls .",
    "the accepted explanation ( e.g.  warner 1995 ) is that their  is finely poised at the boundary between nl and dn behaviour , so that a minor excursion moves them from one class to the other .",
    "we place these stars in a medium sample called ` zc ' .",
    "our low-  sample , essentially the dn , contains all systems that can never sustain an excursion to the hot side of the disc instability .",
    "we call these ` ndn ' for ` normal dn ' , to denote our exclusion of the z  cams .",
    "in fig .  1 we plot the cumulative period distribution for our low - sample ( ndn ) against the sample of all medium and high  systems ( i.e. nnl+zc+vy ) .",
    "there are clear breaks at 2.1 h ( in ndn ) and 3 h ( in nnl+zc+vy ) and a deficit of systems in - between .    in case",
    "the reader is suspicious of our concocted high+medium - sample , we first test the significance of the upper edge of the period gap with the purer nnl sample . a one - sided kolmogorov - smirnov ( k - s ) test shows that the distribution of nnl between 6 and 3 h is compatible with arising from a parent distribution of constant probability in @xmath3 at 67 per cent confidence .",
    "when testing against a constant distribution from 6 h to 2.1 h ( where the dn turn on ) the probability drops to 2 per cent , and when testing down to the 80-m period minimum the probability drops to @xmath4 . for the other samples the drops in probability against a constant distribution in @xmath3 when the range is extended from 73 h to 72.1 h are : nnl+n , 53 to 1 per cent ;",
    "ndn , 43 to 2 per cent ; and for ndn+zc , 41 to 0.2 per cent .",
    "thus all samples , including samples which are independent , show a significant ( @xmath195 per cent ) reduction in the number of cvs below 3 h. this conclusion differs from that of verbunt ( 1997 ) because he included magnetic systems amongst the nls",
    ". the evolution of magnetic systems may well be different from that of non - magnetics ( e.g.  wickramasinghe &  wu 1994 ) , and using a two - sided k - s test for the current sample of systems with @xmath0@xmath25 h gives only a 15 per cent probability that the distribution of am  her stars and that of all non - magnetic cvs arise from the same parent population .",
    "turning now to shorter periods , the nls are too few to investigate the significance of the break at 2 h , so we do this with the low and medium  systems .",
    "both ndn and ndn+zc are consistent with a constant distribution in @xmath3 between 80 m and 2.1 h at 32 per cent probability , but have only a 10@xmath5 probability of constant distribution up to 3 h. thus the numbers of dn decline at 2 h , significantly before the rise in nl numbers at 3 h.    verbunt ( 1997 ) has noted that the gap is most significant when using different samples above and below the gap ( nl and dn respectively ) , raising the possibility of awkward selection effects . however , both the ndn and ndn+zc samples , which are homogeneous observational samples of all systems reliably showing dn outbursts , show both the 2 h break and the 3 h break by themselves ( @xmath198 per cent confidence ) .",
    "thus , regardless of the merits of the magnetic braking theory , the period gap is an observational fact .",
    "since the orbital cycle is not used in the initial discovery of most cvs , selection effects could only operate if periods of certain lengths were much harder to detect in known cvs . while lengths comparable to or longer than a night s observing ( @xmath06 h ) may indeed be harder to detect , we can think of no reason why periods of 2.5 h would be less obvious than those of 1.5 h or 3.5 h.",
    "considering only the stars above the gap ( @xmath0@xmath13 h ) , the samples nnl , ndn and zc are all compatible with arising from the same parent distribution ( at 55 per cent probability for nnl and ndn , and at 67 and 87 per cent probabilities for zcs against nnls and ndn respectively ) .",
    "vys occur preferentially just above the period gap , with all but two systems ( whose periods are uncertain ) in the range 3@xmath2@xmath0@xmath24 h.    testing the low  sample ( ndn ) against higher  systems ( nnl+zc+vy ) , provides evidence for a deficit of dn in the 34 h range ( fig .  2 ) .",
    "shafter ( 1992 ) reported this at 98 per cent significance .",
    "however , because of the new discoveries included in our sample , a two - sided k - s test now gives a 17 per cent probability that they come from the same parent distribution . hence , while we need an explanation for the occurrence of vys in this range , the lack of dn might be real , or might simply be a chance occurrence .",
    "one suggested explanation is that dn turn into vys in the 34 h range ( see livio &  pringle 1993 and verbunt 1997 ) .",
    "we now argue that this is unlikely .",
    "the vys have long stretches acting as nls , and have absolute magnitudes typical of nls rather than dn ( e.g.  warner 1995 ) .",
    "thus to turn a dn into a vy we need to increase .",
    "however , we think we know what happens to a dn as  increases : it turns into a zc , and then into a nl .",
    "thus vys would have to be an intermediate stage similar to zcs , perhaps between zc and nl .",
    "however , the transition dn to zc is marked by a trend to lower - amplitude , more frequent and more regular outbursts , with less time spent at minimum .",
    "the transition zc to nl then sees periods of standstill increasing in frequency and length until they become all we see .    as remarked by warner ( 1995 ) ,",
    "the vys are distinctly different ( see fig .  3 ) .",
    "the lightcurve changes have a greater amplitude ( with an average @xmath6mag of 4.5 compared with 2.5 for zcs ; data from ritter & kolb 1998 ) ; the low states are erratic and unpredictable ; the star can spend months in a low state ; such low states can have an  well below that of a zc at minimum ; the transitions between high and low states often take far longer than dn transitions , lasting up to 1 yr ; and , in contrast to zcs , outbursts are rare or absent when in a low state .",
    "further , if vys are objects transitional in , similar to zcs , why do nt they occur at all periods above the gap , as nls , zcs and dn do ?",
    "why do vys increase at 3@xmath2@xmath0@xmath24 h whereas zcs do nt ? and",
    "why is there no transitional object between a zc and a vy ?    from the dissimilarity of vy variability to dn and zc variability ,",
    "we conclude that we need a mechanism other than the disc instability to explain vys .",
    "a big clue is that am  her stars show low states very similar to those in vys , and since they do nt have discs the low states must involve changes in the mass transfered from the secondary star .",
    "possibilities include the star - spot mechanism of livio &  pringle ( 1994 ) , and irradiation - driven mass transfer cycles ( wu , wickramasinghe &  warner 1995 ) .",
    "irradiational heating of the secondary can increase the  above the rate justified by angular momentum loss , with the  leading to enhanced irradiation .",
    "this unstable feedback must break , plunging the system into a low state of near zero  as the secondary cools ( see also warner 1995 and hellier 1996 for applications of this idea to vys and sw  sex stars ) .",
    "the mechanism would require a high secular , and is more efficient in a close binary , producing the restriction of vys to the period range just above the gap . in am",
    "hers the secondary is not shielded by the disc , allowing irradiation to be effective at lower s.    if the above is correct , the deficit of dn with 3@xmath2@xmath0@xmath24 h would have to be explained by a different mechanism , or dismissed as chance . as discussed by shafter ( 1992 ) , a general increase in  could remove dn , but would have to be reconciled with theories of the width of the period gap .",
    "this paper has been largely a defence of orthodoxy , showing that the period gap in cataclysmic variables is significant and that the nova - like variables show a cutoff at 3 hr .",
    "further , we ve argued against verbunt s ( 1997 ) classification of vy  scl stars with the dwarf novae .",
    "verbunt suggested that since vy  scl variability is probably caused by changes in mass transfer from the secondary star , this could also have a major role in dn outbursts .",
    "we ve shown that the differences are sufficient to require separate mechanisms , such as the disc instability for dn and irradiation - driven mass transfer cycles for vy  scl stars .",
    "we thank frank verbunt for helpful comments on this work and gratefully acknowledge the contribution of amateur light - curve estimates complied by the aavso , vsolj and afoev .",
    "tn is a pparc advanced fellow .",
    "hellier c. , 1996 , apj , 471 , 949 hellier c. , mukai k. , beardmore a.p . , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 397 livio m. , pringle j.e . , 1994 , apj , 427 , 956 ritter h. , kolb u. , 1998 , a&as , in press shafter a.w . , 1992 , apj , 394 , 268 verbunt f. , 1997 , mnras , 290 , l55 warner b. , 1995 , cataclysmic variable stars , cambridge university press , cambridge warner b. , 1996 , ap&ss , 241 , 263 wickramasinghe d.t . , wu k. , 1994 , ap&ss , 211 , 6 wu k. , wickramasinghe d.t .",
    ", warner b. , 1995 , publ ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using the latest compilation of cataclysmic variable orbital periods by ritter &  kolb we argue against verbunt s conclusion that the period gap is not significant for nova - like variables . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss the relation of the vy  scl stars to the dwarf novae .    </S>",
    "<S> accretion , accretion discs  novae , cataclysmic variables  binaries : close . </S>"
  ]
}