{
  "article_text": [
    "the virgo cluster is an important stepping stone in the determination of cosmological distances and of the expansion parameter ( hubble constant ) of the universe ( e.g. tully 1988 , tammann 1991 ) .",
    "an important objective of the hubble space telescope mission is the extension of the determination of cosmological distances by means of the period - luminosity relation of cepheid variables out to the distance of the virgo cluster of galaxies .",
    "recently , the first hst cepheid distance measurement to the virgo galaxy m100 was reported ( freedman  1994 , mould  1995 , ferrarese  1996 ) .",
    "the distance of the galaxy was determined to be @xmath3 mpc and a hubble constant of @xmath0 km s@xmath2 mpc@xmath2 was deduced from this result .",
    "the most recent update on this results by ferrarese  1996 gives a smaller distance of @xmath4 mpc and a slightly higher implied hubble constant .",
    "similarly in an earlier ground based study of the virgo spiral ngc4571 by pierce  ( 1994 ) a cepheid distance of @xmath5 mpc was reported with a formally derived value of @xmath1 .",
    "how the distance of m100 is related to the distance of the virgo cluster as a whole is a very crucial step in this derivation of the hubble constant .",
    "since the mean expected peculiar motion of m100 is too large to yield a precise measure of @xmath6 directly , the cepheid distance measurement is used to infer the distance of the virgo cluster . to obtain a value for @xmath6 the recession velocity of the virgo cluster ( corrected for the `` virgo infall '' )",
    "is either used directly or the recession velocity of the coma cluster is combined with the relative distance of the virgo cluster and the coma cluster in the paper by freedman ( 1994 ) to derives values of of @xmath7 and @xmath8 km s@xmath2 mpc@xmath2 , respectively .",
    "an alternative and very promissing way to derive the `` cosmic recession velocity '' of the virgo cluster for this application is outlined by jerjen & tammann ( 1993 ) .",
    "they use absolute distance measurements to 17 clusters to establish a `` machian frame '' which allows to separate the virgo recession and the local group peculair motion . with the velocity values given by jerjen &",
    "tammann a lower value for @xmath6 is actually derived .",
    "appart from this latter problem of separating the peculiar motion from the cosmic expansion in the local universe , the establishment of a proper value for the virgo distance is the most important , uncertain step in the derivation of @xmath6 as described above . in the following",
    "we will therefore discuss if this determination can be improved . using a cepheid distance measurement to obtain the virgo distance one has to make the assumption that the observed spiral galaxy , e.g. m100 , has a certain line - of - sight distance from the center of the virgo cluster .",
    "freedman  ( 1994 ) in particular assume that m100 is located in the cloud of spiral galaxies centered on the virgo cluster with a line - of - sight extension of 6 mpc .",
    "the lack of information on the precise location of m100 thus adds to the uncertainties of the determination of @xmath6 a value of 17.5% in the paper by freedman  ( 1994 ) .",
    "this assumption is made somewhat _",
    "ad hoc_. spiral galaxies are not part of the central region of the virgo cluster but rather avoid the densest regions ( dressler 1984 , schindler  1995 ) .",
    "mould  ( 1995 ) for example show that a virgo distance of even as far as 20 mpc is still just consistent with the measured m100 cepheid distance for an approximately 90% confidence interval .",
    "therefore the inability to locate precisely the galaxy with measured cepheid distances within the virgo cluster is a severe limitation to the determination of the distance to the virgo cluster .    in the meantime also",
    "other cepheid distances to virgo cluster spirals have been derived using the hubble space telescope .",
    "the galaxies ngc 4496 , ngc 4536 , and ngc 4639 were observed by saha  ( 1996a , 1996b ) and sandage  ( 1996 ) , respectively .",
    "the discovery of cepheids in ngc 4548 was reported by sakai  ( 1996 ) with no distance values published yet . taken together with the earlier observation of ngc4571 the galaxy distances stretch over a wide range : ngc4571 with @xmath9 mpc ( pierce  1994 ) , m100 with @xmath10 mpc ( ferrarese  1996 ) , ngc4496 with @xmath11 mpc ( saha  1996a ) , ngc 4639 with @xmath12 mpc ( saha  1996b ) and ngc4639 with @xmath13 mpc ( sandage  1996 ) .",
    "while the good resolvability of the galaxy ngc4571 ( sandage & bedke 1988 ) quite probably flags this object as being in the foreground of the major part of the virgo cluster , the other galaxies are believed to be true virgo spirals as argued by the authors of the cepheid observation papers ( see also tammann  1996 ) .",
    "this highlights again the large extent of the galaxy infall region of the virgo cluster and the necessity of obtaining more precise information on the location of such galaxies with respect to the structure of the virgo cluster .    in this paper",
    "we therefore like to discuss how galaxy targets for cepheid measurements can be selected , for which the relative position to the center of virgo are known more precisely .",
    "the selection of these targets is based on the fact that interaction effects of the interstellar medium with the intracluster gas of virgo can be observed for some cluster spirals .",
    "in particular the two galaxies ngc4548 and ngc4501 are observed to be stripped off the interstellar gas ( cayatte  1990 , 1994 ) . in connection with the knowledge of the gas density distribution in the virgo cluster from rosat x - ray observations and theoretical considerations on the physics of the stripping process",
    ", the location of these two galaxies can be confined to the surface of a certain isodensity shell of the intracluster medium around m87 .",
    "the galaxy location can be well confined to a line - of - sight distance from m87 to within @xmath14 mpc .",
    "this is about a factor of three more precise than in the case of m100 .",
    "the virgo cluster as a whole is unfortunately quite complex , as observed in the optical galaxy distribution ( e.g. binggeli  1987 ) and in x - rays ( bhringer  1994 ) , and it is therefore difficult to get precise information on the line - of - sight location of m87 within the cluster . in the optical m87 is located near the center of the densest , northern part of the virgo cluster , designated cluster a in binggeli  ( 1987 ) .",
    "the x - ray observation of the virgo cluster in the rosat all sky survey provides some further clues on this problem , implying that m87 is probably centered in the halo of cluster a with some disturbance from the infall of the m86 galaxy group , as will be discussed in this paper .",
    "this helps to relate the redshift of m87 to the recession velocity of the virgo cluster . in this way one can now relate the positions of the stripped galaxies at the edge of the intracluster gas halo around m87 to the recession velocity of m87 and the virgo cluster to derive the hubble parameter with largely reduced uncertainties as induced by the substructure in the virgo cluster .",
    "we therefore propose that the two galaxies ngc4548 and ngc4501 should be chosen as targets for the search of cepheid variables to get a more reliable distance of the virgo cluster .    in the following",
    "we discuss the stripping of virgo cluster spiral galaxies and the density distribution of the gaseous x - ray halo of m87 in section 2 and derive the line - of - sight distances of ngc4548 and ngc4501 with respect to m87 . in section 3",
    "we analyse the position of m87 with respect to the intracluster medium of the virgo cluster .",
    "the results are discussed and summarized in section 4 . throughout the paper",
    "we will assume a distance to the virgo cluster of 20 mpc and for the easy conversion of our results to other distance values we will give the scaling of the important quantities with distance by the parameter @xmath15 mpc .",
    "as first proposed by gunn & gott ( 1972 ) spiral galaxies are stripped from their interstellar medium when they pass close enough to the core of a galaxy cluster and this effect was partly made responsible for the lack of late type galaxies in the densest regions of galaxy clusters ( e.g. dressler 1984 ) . in the virgo cluster",
    "we can clearly observe this effect for example by a comparison of the neutral hydrogen content of spiral galaxies measured in the 21 cm radio line by van gorkum & kotanyi ( 1985 ) and cayatte  ( 1990 ) and the distribution of the intracluster gas as observed in x - rays ( bhringer  1994 ) in the rosat all sky survey ( trmper 1993 , voges 1992 ) .",
    "1 shows an overlay of the 21 cm measurement in 23 spirals by cayatte  ( 1990 ) on top of the x - ray image of the virgo cluster from the rosat all sky survey .",
    "the x - ray image displays the photon distribution detected in the energy range 0.4 to 2.4 kev and the image is smoothed with a variable gaussian filter .",
    "as already noted by cayatte  ( 1994 ) the galaxies closer to the center of the cluster  marked by the giant elliptical galaxy m87 ",
    "are almost devoid of neutral hydrogen whereas the extent of the neutral hydrogen gas disks increases with the distance from the cluster in the sample of galaxies observed . at an intermediate location",
    "the galaxies show signs of distortion in their gas disks which can be interpreted as interaction effects of the gas disks with the hot , x - ray emitting intracluster medium ( icm ) of the virgo cluster .",
    "this effect seems to be most evident for the two galaxies ngc 4501 and ngc 4548 .",
    "2 shows a close - up picture of this region again as an overlay of the 21 cm image of the two spiral galaxies ngc 4501 and ngc 4548 to the x - ray surface brightness image of the icm of the virgo cluster from the rosat all sky survey .",
    "the neutral hydrogen distribution in the two galaxies as seen in 21 cm is clearly asymmetrical .",
    "the interstellar gas appears to be compressed at the side of the galaxies facing the virgo cluster center and the gas is combed backwards in the outer parts of the galaxies .",
    "this is just what would be expected from the effect of ram pressure stripping .",
    "the virgo cluster center marked by the galaxy m87 is by far the deepest gravitational potential in the region .",
    "it is therefore certain that the galaxies are attracted by it and thus  if they are on their first infall  they are currently moving towards the cluster center .",
    "therefore the side with which they are facing m87 ( located in the direction of the lower right corner in fig .",
    "2 ) is the front - side with respect to their peculiar motion .",
    "bernoulli forces and kelvin - helmholtz instabilities acting at the sides of the gas disks are responsible for the peanut shapes of the gas disks . for further details",
    "see the images and data in cayatte  ( 1990 , 1994 ) .    for the x - ray image displayed in fig .",
    "2 four obvious point sources in the region  which are visible in fig . 1  have been removed to show only the angularly resolved structures which very probably correspond to features in the gas distribution of the virgo icm .",
    "the icm appears actually quite patchy in this area .",
    "it is striking that there are two surface brightness knots close to both of the being - stripped spiral galaxies . in both cases",
    "the knots are offset from the galaxy in the direction of the motion .",
    "they constitute surface density enhancements of about 30 - 40% above the background subtracted cluster emission .",
    "they correspond to about 2@xmath16 enhancements in this heavily smoothed image ( gaussian used for smoothing is @xmath17 arcsec ) .",
    "they have extents of up to 50 - 70 kpc with all the internal structure being smoothed - out . since the x - ray intensity is mostly a function of the emission measure in the line of sight ( and also because the intracluster gas is approximately in pressure equilibrium on these scales )",
    "the intensity fluctuations have to correspond to density enhancements of the gas .",
    "one can roughly estimate that local density enhancements with a scale of @xmath18 kpc and an amplitude of the order of a factor of two would produce the observed effect .",
    "given the low significance and the badly resolved structure of these features we can only speculate .",
    "but the features could indeed be explained by density enhancements in the icm due to the sweeping - up effect of the infalling galaxies . while the cold gas of the spirals is being stripped ,",
    "the icm is piling up in front of the galaxies .",
    "this would be a further confirmation of the fact that these two galaxies are strongly interacting with the intracluster gas of the virgo cluster .    next we can discuss the ram pressure stripping effect quantitatively . as already discussed by gunn & gott ( 1972 , see also sarazin 1986 , cayatte  1994 ) this effect is determined by the balance of the ram pressure , @xmath19 , of the icm pushing the interstellar medium out off the spiral galaxy and the gravitational force with which the galaxy binds the interstellar medium .",
    "the ram pressure depends on the density of the icm , @xmath20 , and the velocity of the galaxy , @xmath21 :    @xmath22    the restoring force per unit area due to the gravity of the disk of the spiral galaxy is given by ( e.g. gott & gunn 1972 ) :    @xmath23    where @xmath24 is the gravitational surface mass density and @xmath25 the surface density of the interstellar medium of the stripped spiral galaxy .",
    "the 21 cm images of the spiral galaxies in the paper by cayatte  ( 1990 ) are given out to the @xmath26 @xmath27 hydrogen column density contour .",
    "therefore we calculate the stripping effect for this outer radius . for the mass density of the galactic disk we use the mass average inside this radius given by flat rotation curves and the assumption of keplerian orbits .",
    "@xmath28    with this simplification we get    @xmath29    and    @xmath30    where @xmath31 is the column density of the neutral hydrogen ism as measured by the 21 cm emission and @xmath32 is the infall velocity of the spiral into the virgo cluster .",
    "the information on the rotation curves can also be taken from 21 cm observations by guhathakurta ( 1988 ) .",
    "for the infall velocity of the galaxies into the virgo cluster we take a value of 1200 km s@xmath2 which will be justified below .",
    "the gas density in the center of the virgo cluster can be obtained from the observed x - ray surface brightness of the x - ray halo around m87 ( bhringer  1994 ; nulsen & bhringer 1995 ) with an approximate value as a function of radius of    @xmath33    where @xmath34 is the electron density in the icm .",
    "the properties are scaled by a virgo distance parameter @xmath35 mpc . taking the values for the rotational velocity from the rotation curves published by guhathakurta  ( 1988 ) and the extents of the hydrogen disks to the @xmath26 @xmath27 contour from cayatte  ( 1990 ) as listed in table 1 one",
    "finds that the ram pressure is balanced by the gravitational force of the galaxy for an m87 distance of @xmath36 mpc for ngc 4501 and @xmath37 mpc for ngc 4548 .",
    "the values we find are close to the values for the projected distances of the galaxies from m87 . for the calculations of the uncertainties",
    "we have assumed that the considerations that went into the calculation of the pressure balance in the ram pressure effect may be uncertain by up to a factor of three .    since we know",
    "that ngc 4501 is falling in from the front and ngc 4548 from behind into the virgo cluster core , the distances to m87 are constraint to @xmath38 mpc for ngc 4501 and @xmath39 mpc for ngc 4548 .",
    "likewise the line - of - sight distance difference between m87 and the stripped galaxies is @xmath40 mpc for ngc 4501 and @xmath41 mpc for ngc 4548 .",
    "therefore within this galaxy stripping scenario the line - of - sight distance of the galaxies is fixed with respect to m87 with uncertainties of only one and two mpc , respectively .",
    "this is a great improvement of the positional uncertainty in view of the use of these galaxies as probes for the cepheid distance scale .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < \" , ]",
    "with the analysis of the above observations we have in principle established the following important link : we know the line - of - sight positions of two late type galaxies quite precisely with respect to the location of m87 and we know that this galaxy is the center of the relaxed major mass component of virgo . now , to relate the recession velocity of m87 to the velocity of the main body of the virgo cluster we have to correct for the influence of the infalling galaxy group m86 .",
    "with the positions of the galaxies ngc 4501 and ngc 4548 determined and a known redshift of the central part of virgo one has obtained a direct relation of distance and recession velocity which would allow to determine the hubble constant ( with the additional correction for the virgo infall ) in a more direct way than possible in the past .",
    "it is of course crucial that both galaxies are of late type with a high enough star formation rate to make the search for cepheids feasible .",
    "but since the stripping of the icm is just starting now and the galaxies still have a dense interstellar medium , there is no reason to expect a lower than normal population of cepheids in those galaxies .",
    "both galaxies in particular ngc4501 have impressive dust lanes visible in the optical images implying that star formation should still be going on .",
    "ngc 4501 and ngc 4548 are in fact the galaxies closest in projection to m87 for which one can hope to find cepheids for a distance measurement .",
    "therefore we propose that these two galaxies should be made targets of cepheid searches with hst with high priority ( the observation of cepeids in ngc4548 was actually just reported by sakai  1996 while we were working on a revision of this paper ) .",
    "in addition a better understanding of the dynamics within cluster a in virgo would be required .",
    "of particular importance is a better determination of the masses of the halo regions of m87 and m86 .",
    "an improved and more detailed analysis of the x - ray observations is in preparation by us .",
    "a deeper analysis of the optical data is complicated by the fact that the galaxy density in the immediate vicinity of m87 is surprisingly low .",
    "if one would naively assume that the galaxy density is proportional to the density of the intracluster gas , one would expect a much larger number of galaxies in the neighborhood of m87 .",
    "galaxy cannibalism has been tentatively made responsible for this circumstance .",
    "this lack of galaxies is so striking that for example the maximum of the projected galaxy density is much closer to m86 than to m87 ( see binggeli  1987 , schindler  1995 ) .",
    "this uneven galaxy distribution makes it rather difficult to use the galaxy redshift distribution in the a cluster to get a more detailed picture of the m87-m86 merger .",
    "we can further study the infall of the stripped galaxies in some more detail .",
    "ngc 4501 has a recession velocity of 2283 indicating that it is falling in from the front , while ngc 4548 with a recession velocity of 483 is falling in from behind ( cayatte  1994 , heliocentric velocities ) .",
    "m87 has for comparison a recession velocity of 1258 . from the analysis of the x - ray data of the rosat all sky survey in the virgo region ( bhringer et al .",
    "1994 ) we get a rough estimate of the mass profile of the m87 halo region with values in the range @xmath42 .",
    "the arrival velocity of a galaxy in such a potential at a radius of about 1 mpc is in the range of 1200 to 1900 .",
    "here we have assumed that the potential of the cluster has been constant over the relevant time , that is at least for the last @xmath43gys , which may lead to a slight overestimate of the galaxy velocity .",
    "the assumed value of the infall velocity in our ram pressure stripping analysis is therefore in the right range .",
    "this analysis can also be improved when better data on the mass distribution in the m87 halo become available",
    ". this will be possible with better information on the temperature distribution which will be obtained from planned asca observations .",
    "there may also be other galaxies near the stripping radius that could be used as targets after more detailed studies , for which the present data do not show such clear evidence of stripping , like for example the galaxy ngc 4569 .",
    "for the modeling of the stripping effect it would be useful to have even more detailed hi observations in those galaxies .",
    "one should note that a good determination of the distance to virgo is not only important for a better knowledge of @xmath6 , but is also interesting in itself .",
    "virgo has been the target of so many studies in particular in the field of environmental effects on the galaxy population that a proper distance scaling of all the studied physical processes would be a great advantage .",
    "we thank gustav tammann , bruno binggeli and in particular renzo sancisi for fruitful discussions and helpful comments .",
    "h.b . and s.s",
    "are grateful for financial support by the german bmft through the verbundforschung for astronomy .",
    "s.s . gratefully acknowledges the hospitality of the astronomical institute of the university of basel .",
    "ferrarese , l. , freedman , w.l . , hill , r.j . ,",
    "saha , a. , madore , b.f . ,",
    "kennicut , r.c . ,",
    "stetson , p.b . ,",
    "ford , h.c . ,",
    "graham , j.a . , hoessel , j.g . ,",
    "han , m. , huchra , j. , hughes , s.m . ,",
    "illingworth , g.d .",
    ", kelson , d. , mould , j.r . , phelps , r. , silbermann , n.a . ,",
    "sakai , s. , turner , a. , harding , p. , bresolin , f. , 1996 , , 464 , 568    freedman , w.l . , madore , b.f .",
    ", mould , j.r . , hill , r. , ferrarese , l. , kennicutt , r.c .",
    ", saha , a. , stetson , p.b . , graham , j.a . ,",
    "ford , h. , hoessel , j.g . ,",
    "huchra , j.p . ,",
    "hughes , s.m .",
    ", & illingwoth , g.d . , 1994 , , 371 , 757          mould , j. , huchra , j.p . ,",
    "bresolin , f. , ferrarese , l. , ford , h.c . , freedman , w.l .",
    ", graham , j. , harding , p. , hill , r. , hoessel , j.g . ,",
    "hughes , s.m . , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", kelson , d. , kennicutt , r.c . ,",
    "madore , b.f . , phelps , r. , stetson , p.b . , & turner , a. , 1995 , , 449 , 413                              tammann , g.a . ,",
    "labhardt , l. , federspiel , m. , sandage , a. , saha , a. , macchetto , f.d . ,",
    "panagia , n. , 1996 , in _ science with the hubble space telescope - ii _ , space telescope science institute publication , p. benvenuti , f.d .",
    "macchetto ( eds . ) , 1996"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the measurement of precise galaxy distances by cepheid observations out to the distance of the virgo cluster is important for the determination of the hubble constant . </S>",
    "<S> the virgo cluster is thereby often used as an important stepping stone . </S>",
    "<S> the first hst measurement of the distance of a virgo galaxy ( m100 ) using cepheid variables provided a value for @xmath0 ( freedman  1994 ) . </S>",
    "<S> this measurement was preceeded by a ground based study of the virgo spiral ngc4571 ( pierce  1994 ) formally providing @xmath1 km s@xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> these determinations rely on the accuracy with which the position of this observed spiral galaxy can be located with respect to the virgo cluster center . </S>",
    "<S> this uncertainty introduces a major error in the determination of the hubble constant , together with the uncertainty in the adopted virgo infall velocity of the local group .    </S>",
    "<S> here we propose the use of spiral galaxies which show clear signs of being stripped off their interstellar medium by the intracluster gas of the virgo cluster as targets for the cepheid distance measurements . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the stripping process and the knowledge of the intracluster gas distribution from rosat x - ray observations allow us to locate these galaxies with an at least three times higher precision with respect to m87 than in the case of other spirals like m100 . </S>",
    "<S> the x - ray observations further imply that m87 is well centered within the densest part of the intracluster gas halo of the virgo cluster . </S>",
    "<S> this seems to imply that m87 is approximately at rest in the central core of the cluster .    </S>",
    "<S> there remains the problem , however , that there is a velocity difference between m87 and the average velocity of the virgo galaxies in the larger halo region around m87 . </S>",
    "<S> this may be explained by the disturbance introduced by the galaxy m86 , which is falling into the cluster with high velocity from behind . </S>",
    "<S> the x - ray and optical observations imply that m86 is associated with a group of galaxies and a larger dark matter halo with a mass of up to about 10% of the mass of the m87 halo , which would account for the velocity offset of m87 with respect to the velocity average of about 100 to 150 km s@xmath2 .    </S>",
    "<S> the combination of these informations could enable us to locate the two stripped spiral galaxies quite precisely within the virgo cluster as a whole and could greatly improve the determination of the virgo cluster distance . </S>"
  ]
}